VoL. 23. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1895. No. 18.


CONTENTS:
	The Spirit of Reform Reduced to Practice—
Louisa Greene Richards. Our Sixth Sense, or
Sense of Spiritual Understanding—Sarah M.
Kimball. Woman Suffrage Column. Back to
The Long Ago—L. M. Hewlings. U. W. P. C.—
Lizzie S. Wilcox. Woman’s Influence—Lizzie D.
Armstrong. Social Purity—Katie - Halladay
Cragan. Equal Suffrage Section. Silk Associa-
tion Meeting—Corinne M. Allen. Appreciation
And Thanks. Testimony of Mrs Bassett. In
Memoriam—Sarah M. Kimball. A Word To
Those Who Are Interested In the Silk Culture—
Ella Pyper. In Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—Conferences And Conventions. 		 
	POETRY:—Hunting A Hat—Augusta Joyce
Grocheron. When Easter Comes—Margaret E.
Sangster.


[Column 1]
HUNTING A HAT.

"WHEN did I last buy me a hat?
	I really don’t remember
Whether ’twas some spring conference
 	Or sometime in December. 
You cannot judge by seeing it,
	What might have been the season,
And as for naming, just the style
	’Twould quite bewilder reason.

You see my dear, your ways and mine
	In special matters vary;
You choose and order something fine,
	While I must be so wary;
The first thought must be just how much,
	No—just how little, may be
Taken from all the endless needs
	Of household down to baby.

And that is just the first of it
	Not yet the worst point either,
Two solemn truths present themselves
	And I can hide from neither.
When taste and judgment disagree,
	The task’s not an ideal
Delightful one for me—as you—
	But most severely real.

With superstitious dread I view
 	A thing all black and sober,
No matter if I was born in
	The late month of October.
Nor do I want my hat to bear
	Art’s tinsel grapes and berries,
Or like Italian vender’s tray
	Piled up with flowers and cherries.

If I could reach my hand and make
	Just my own free selection,
From that felicity would turn
	A mental introspection; 
And I would ask myself: ‘‘well now,
	After all your endeavor
And getting what you liked the best
	Don’t you look worse than ever?”

For weary face and faded hair
	Fair milliner, I pray you,
Evoke such colors, style and grace
	As shall beloved make you.
No—that won’t do—’tis well enough,
	’Tis charming when you wear it,
It makes you fairer, younger still,
	But I—I would not dare it.

Is there not something that won’t show
	The contrast all too strongly,
As mist enwraps and makes more fair
	Some scene, nor doeth wrongly?
O, cheek and eyes and smile of youth,
	I read without your speaking:

[Column 2]
“It is not here, has passed away
	Years back, beyond your seeking.”

For bloom of health and hope of youth
	Graced e’en the simplest dressing;
What now in place of childhood’s wreath
	And parents’ fond carressing?
What do we win for what we lose
	While we are growing older,
Have we soul-jewels for bright cheeks,
	Has life grown bright, or colder?

But I forget—I take your time;
	Why should I still look vainly,
For your fair face beside my own
	In mirror answers plainly;
There is no use to argue with
	Facts all too plain and truthful,
Your dainty goods and all their grace
	Belong to faces youthful.

Just pick me out the plainest hat—
	I think at last we’ve found it;
As kindly moss, hides storm-scarred bough
	Just wreathe a veil around it,
And have it large enough, my dear,
	My face to shield and cover
So I might pass unknown beside
	My truest old-time lover.

Can’t you slip in a little tint
	To light it just the slightest,
Some where just as through clouds at night
	One star shines out the brightest?
Or, as in ashes that seem dead
	There hideth still the embers,
That wake to touch like some past joy,
	The heart oftimes remembers?

Ah, lovely milliner, how well
	You know your task and do it,
They could not tell as swift I pass,
	Who sees so plainly through it.
Bright be thy life as in thy smile
	And blessings rest upon it,
And chase forever far ahead
	As I could wish in sonnet—
The time, when you no more can wear
	The loveliest new bonnet.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Bountiful, April, 1895.


[Column 1]
THE SPIRIT OF REFORM REDUCED
TO PRACTICE.
	IN the Book of Books it is written, “God
said ‘Let there be light’ and there was
light.’’ An abstract truth is herein set
forth, but the whole sum of the matter is
not expressed. Reason teaches that there
were agencies who understood and obeyed
the mandate of divine authority, and thus
the purpose of the Lord was fulfilled. Not
words alone, but works; brave, determined,
incessant effort, wields the power which
will eventually revolutionize the world.
	The world in its grand old age has grown
very wise, and contains many teachers.
Also many who aspire to be teachers with-
out the necessary preparation and qualifica-
tions.
	Of the latter class the unwary should be-
ware, lest “the blind lead the blind, and
both fall into the ditch.”
	It is good to desire, with great and strong
desire to be a teacher of truth. And it is
possible for almost every one to become a
true teacher; not an imaginary or mislead-

[Column 2]
ing one. It should be considered a cause
for individual congratulation, that the in-
fluence of one pure and noble character, of
life, is of more lasting and certain weight
in the scale of the world’s reformation, than
the preaching of a thousand sermons or the
publishing of thousands of volumes. Up-
on first thought, this statement may appear
questionable in the minds of some, but a
brief analysis offers proofs of its correctness. 
	In the first place, the one grand soul
which in spite of all obstacles, heroically
performs its daily duties, small or great, to
the end of mortal life, is saved. While of
all the millions of hearts which may be
thrilled by the sound of the thousand ser-
mons, or the perusal of the many volumes,
not one, by those means, independent of
self exertion, will ever secure salvation.
And again, the object lesson presented by a
worthy life, to those who are fortunate
enough to come within the circle of its
light, is of greater practical value than the
mere listening to the most eloquent ser-
mons, or reading of the most instructive
works, can be. For one is the positive
demonstration of exalted truths; the others
are simply oral and book lessons.
	The present era is one of general educa-
tion. The world is full of educated, or at
least partially educated speakers and wri-
ters. Has it a proportionate number of
charitable and sympathetic hearts and will-
ing, do its workers or a majority of them
actually work for the good of humanity,
for the reformation and salvation of the
masses; ready, patient hands? Or is there,
within the breasts of many, underlying
this high and holy object, a reaching after
vain glory, a yearning for adulation, a love
of praise? And in many instances, coupled
with these polluting tendencies, is there
not an undue and selfish longing for world-
ly wealth? No heart need fear to take
home, and kindly entertain these questions;
and prove them, whether they be friendly
messengers come to give warning of dangers
ahead, or mere safety inspectors, looking
after the general weal. Where there is
no dross to be consumed, the fire need not
be dreaded.
	If, however, the evils here mentioned are
really prevalent, to what cause may such 
lamentable effects be traced? Does it not
give rise to reasonable apprehensions that
something is at fault with the general
manner, or matter, by which the public 
mind is nourished? Let us look into this
subject.
	Children attend school and are over-fed
mentally, as a rule, in this generation. 
Often vanity and love of praise are engen-
dered, fostered and highly developed in the
innocent child, to sharpen the appetite and
increase the thirst for learning. Thus the
capacity of the brain is expanded at the
expense and to the neglect of the heart.
Thus knowledge is eagerly sought and
obtained through selfish motives, for world-
ly honor and gain; instead of in the spirit
of generosity, to do good and diffuse light
in the midst of the world.
	Parents as well as teachers, home as well
as school influences all lead in much the


[Column 1]
same direction. Fathers and mothers,
ambitious for the honor and high positions
to which they fondly hope to see their
children attain, bestow persuasive con-
gratulations and flattery, in season and out
of season, wherever and whenever the
slightest opportunities are presented, and
often without the least modification. Can
there be any wonder that hearts thus un-
cultured, coupled with minds thus over-
trained, springing up all over the world,
should flood it with unwholesome literature
and false theories, advanced in lectures,
books, and works of every kind?
	What a lamentable thing it is—not that
we have too many speakers, writers or
teachers, but that we have so few of the
right kind. Good books are among our
best friends; too many books which teach
nothing but sound doctrine, will never be
written or published. Too many sermons
of pure and true moral and religious tenden-
cies will never be preached. It is the un-
sound, misleading matter, though perhaps
bright, entertaining and high-sounding, all
the more dangerous if it be so, which is
written with a view to gaining popularity
for its authors, that is too lavishly diffused,
and should be consigned to oblivion before 
it sees the light.
	What mountains of labor arise to con-
front workers, in the counteracting of the
mischievious results of all this false educa-
tion which has been going on and gaining
strength for generations! How carefully 
should they look to it, that they be not
themselves deceived, and become contamina-
ted with the same spirit and influence which
actuate the narrow-minded and short- 
sighted lovers of gain.
	Leaders there must be, that the world’s
work may be carried forward to its final
consummation. But let them be those who
are workers themselves, and whose works
bear fruits worthy of inspection and ac-
ceptance. Then, let followers keep their
leaders in view; and not, through undue
self confidence, or negligence, run reckless-
ly, in line or out of line, just as it may
happen. Harmony, in any pursuit, can
only be maintained through the strict obser-
vance of immutable laws.
	Notice a choir master, and the worshiping
assembly, in congregational singing, where
musical talent is not much cultivated. One
portion of the congregation, not consider-
ing themselves professionals, make no at-
tempt to sing, being either too proud or too
modest to join in an effort wherein they are
not sure to excel. Another portion sing
boldly, heedlessly, with great self-reliance,
never taking thought or trouble to look at
the baton in the hand of the master. Ah,
the poor master! You can see how dis-
heartened he becomes, as some push ahead
while others lag behind almost destroying,
at times, the melody of those voices whose
possessors watch the baton and sing in
harmony. It may not be the discordant
singers who form the majority, but often,
they make so much noise that they seem to
be the larger part of the congregation.
And they are the ones who turn their
heads and say to their neighbors, “Well
did you ever hear such singing? If I be-
longed to such a choir, I would break loose
and found one of my own.”
	So it is with the world, its would-be re-
formers, and its real reformers, today.
Many are doing nothing, Many are doing
great things in their own estimation, but
worse than nothing in the estimation of

[Column 2]
others. While some are, watching the
baton, and by keeping in accord with its
movements, are working harmoniously for
the regeneration of mankind.
	To which of these classes do I belong? is
a serious question, which every one will do
well to ask of self. And if a feeling of
indifference, or of envy, of jealous rivalry
or inconsideration for the welfare of others
is found to be present in any degree, there
is a good place to begin immediate and
earnest work in reducing the spirit of re-
form to practice.
	In the same spirit, and with the same
view of actual reform, may be made an
appeal for peace between men and women.
The battle waged, for the maintenance of
supremacy on one side, and the recognition
of inherent rights on the other, has been
long and rigorously pursued. But, thanks
to God, and to our noble, self-sacrificing
champions of woman's cause, and universal
justice, we may hope at least, that the
principle of equal rights is beginning to be
understood, that the war between the sexes
is nearly over, and that soon, “The smoke
of its cannons” will have cleared away, 
and “The clashing of its bayonets” will be
no longer heard. For wars, either with
weapons in the mouth or in the hand, are
terrible; and their giving way for the ex-
tension of peace is a most desirable se-
quence. If, however, this happy termina-
tion may not be said to have already come
in sight, add if a call for the declaration of
peace would be considered premature, yet,
let us joyfully anticipate its early appear-
ance, and be prepared to meet it with 
suitable acclaim.
	Let us begin to cultivate and exhibit
feelings of peace and love toward all, and
be ready for the good time when it does
come. And while peace, beautiful peace,
is preparing to spread her white, downy
wings over our hearts and homes in restful
security, may we not briefly but cautiously
review portions of the theories and systems
adopted in modern education, and note
some changes which might be suggested
by way of improvement?
	Already has it been intimated, in a
former paragraph, that undue expansion of
the intellectual powers is required by the
present forms of our schools and colleges,
to the neglect and injury of other faculties.	
	The saddest thing in connection with this
mistaken plan, is the effort to crush out the
finest sentiments, the most sacred instincts
of the human heart. The first great divine
commandment given to man and woman
on this earth, which was to “Be fruitful
and multiply,” has been ruthlessly set
aside and trampled upon. And this is
looked upon as philanthropic and praise
worthy by some of our much-learned pro-
fessors and teachers. Indeed, rules are
sought to be established, in some instances,
prohibiting the acceptance of a married
woman as a teacher in a public school.
And young women who have been found
to possess especial adaptabilities as teachers,
have even been solicited to sign contracts
to the effect that they never will marry, but
will devote their lives to the training of
other people’s children. What unwarrant-
ed disregard of divine law! What an out-
rage upon humanity—what sacrilege! It 
would seem incredible that intelligent and
enlightened manhood could be so utterly
blinded to the noblest and purest impulses
of human nature. Who does not know
that marriage—happy, true marriage—is

[Column 3]
the high school of virtue—yea, of all the
virtues which God designed as guides to
perfect life for His children, the offspring of
Deity.
	Who can realize that an unmarried man,
or a woman standing alone in the world, is
but half of the perfect being God designed
in His creation of humanity? True it is
that many who have passed through life
unmarried, (mostly women) have done
great good, have made the world better for
their having lived in it; but who can tell
how much more good they might have
accomplished with the aid, encouragement,
and support of suitable companions, to have
formed more perfect beings? There is
nothing truer than that the woman, who, 
for any reason, is debarred the privilege of
motherhood in pure and holy wedlock, of
clasping to her bosom her own priceless,
God-given child, is denied the highest and
most choice gift the loving Father ever
intended His daughters to receive.
	Yet, mark the armies of unmarried
women to be met with everywhere; look
into their hungry eyes, which are only
indexes to their poor, starving, fam-
ished hearts! They smile, but the smile is
soulless; they laugh, but the laugh is
hollow and bitter!
	Let a new plan of tuition be mapped out,
let our young men and young women, the 
former especially, as with them it is most
needed—(for women would marry with
proper opportunities) be taught and made
to understand, that life unsanctified by
wisely, prayerfully chosen wedded com-
panionship, if not wasted is worthless in
comparison to what it might be if more
judiciously managed. That while, as to 
all general rules, there may be honorable
exceptions, the position of such an excep-
tion is not an enviable one.
	God gave to mankind, in the beginning,
a safe preventive of the most direful evils
which exist or ever have existed upon the
earth. It has been outlawed and ignored
by man’s superficial rulings. And now,
the only antidote for those crying evils, is a
return to the acceptance of the primitive
divine law.
	In our little worlds—the home—and
social circles where individual influence may
be brought to bear, let us put forth strong,
invincible efforts, that reformation in its
true sense may be made apparent.
	Beginning with ourselves, let us see to it
that the spirit of reform is reduced to
practice.
			LOUISA L. GREENE RICHARDS.
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
		Jan. 26th, 1895.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


“THE Tucson Star says of the Arizona
House of Representatives:
	The Legislative Assembly passed the wo-
man suffrage bill by a vote of 17 to 7,
which shows that the measure is popular
with the people, and indicates that there
are a number of rising statesmen in the As-
sembly who have taken off their hats to the
rising sun, and who clearly see the drift of
public sentiment; for, as sure as the day
follows the night, woman suffrage will be
the rule in every State and Territory within
the next ten years, and every public man
who makes his record against this right of
American womanhood will be retired from
politics. This is the edict of the progress-
ive American spirit which has taken hold
on the people.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WHEN EASTER COMES.

WHEN Easter comes and violets lift
	Their shyly hooded faces.
Where late the frozen snow adrift
	Heaped high the woodland spaces.
When Easter comes and sunbeams dance
	On green leaves all a quiver,
And grasses rally, spear and lance,
	By rippling brook and river. 
	
When Easter comes the lilies haste
	What time the bells are ringing,
To bring their perfumes, pure and chaste,
	From hallowed censers swinging.
Shine dim church aisles on Easter Day
	Beneath their serried whiteness.
And happy children kneel and pray
	Amid the lilied brightness.

When Easter comes, a merry train,
	The robin, wren, and starling,
With song and wing are here again,
	And many another darling.
The bluebird and the oriole,
	The martin and the swallow,
	“Away,” they chant, “with grief and dole,
	Here’s Spring, and Summer’ll follow!”

When Easter comes, when Easter comes.
	The Winter’s spell is over!
Ere long we’ll hear the elfin drums
	Where bees are deep in clover.
After we catch the swaying lilt
	Of winds amony the daises,
And see the rosecups’ sweetness spilt
	Among the garden mazes.

When Easter comes, ah! happy day,
	E’en tears like dewdrops glisten.
And songs climb up the heavenward way
	While angels bend to listen. 
For love and life and joy untold
	Are in the age-long story
That spells itself on harps of gold,
	And thrills with endless glory.
			MARGARET E. SANGSTER


[Column 1]
OUR SIXTH SENSE, OR THE SENSE
OF SPIRITUAL UNDERSTANDING.

[Read at the Triennial Council of Women
in Washington February 21, 1895.]
“Come Holy Spirit, Heavenly Dove,
With all thy quickening powers,
Kindle a flame of sacred love,
In these cold hearts of ours.”
	It is proper on occasions like this, to con-
sider such topics as shall be of the highest
benefit to womankind; and to my mind, it
is fitting to discuss here, that capacity of
mind in which woman is pre-eminently
fitted to excel. The contemplation of the
sense of spiritual understanding first gives
me a sense of my littleness and inability,
then encourages me in the attempt to ex-
press a few thoughts on this absorbing
theme.
	This faculty, like our physical sense, is
susceptible of cultivation. Its possibilities
are limitless; it is the cause least understood;
it is the divine of our nature; it brings to
our understanding things not seen with the
natural eye, or discerned by mortal mind;
it extends our correspondences. With the
eyes and senses of our physical self, we are
in correspondence with our physical sur-
roundings, with our spiritual eyes and
senses awakened and cultivated, we come
into communion with infinitude.
	The sixth sense links mortal with im-
mortal existence; it testifies in unmistakable
language of the immortality of the soul.

[Column 2]
It educates, exalts, and refines those that
heed its whisperings, and follow its guiding
influence. This sense leads to blissful
heights of superior understanding; teaches
the secrets of ever-existent life; our relation-
ship to the past, present, and future, and
brings us into harmony with the infinite
fountain of life and intelligence. It illu-
mines the soul that cultivates it; purifies
thoughts and actions; enlarges the sphere
of comprehension, and exalts the aspira-
tions. Its continued exercise brings its
possessor nearer and nearer to the throne of
the Almighty.
	Those who answer the whisperings of
this sense, are sympathetically drawn to-
ward each other, as exemplified in the Re-
ligious Congress held in Chicago in 1893,
where religious pilgrims and would-be re-
formers from all lands, and of all creeds,
met and harmonized in a bond of love.
This was notably true of the Woman’s
Department of the Memorable Congress.
	The light of this sense has been fore-
shadowed in various ages of the world’s
history. In the nineteenth century, the
search-light of Religion, Philosophy, and
Science, have united in exploring an un-
troden pathway toward the haven of light
which is inextinguishable.
	The legitimate exercise of spiritual power
obtained through the operations of this
sense, puts the individual in possession of
keys of knowledge, and clothes him with
additional responsibility relating to the
enlightenment and elevation of the human
family.
	They that seek, by faith and earnest
prayer, find the light that leads to the
golden gate. They that knock with study
and faith’s assurance, have the narrow way
opened to them, and are received into com-
munion with the Infinite Father and
Mother, are permitted to enter hallowed
mansions’ to attend the school of the Pro-
phets, and, by advancing steps to reach the
school of the Gods, where they learn the
processes by which worlds are organized, by
the combining of eternal, intelligent,
obedient elements; the uses for which
worlds are called into existence; the manner
in which they are controlled, and the laws
of progression by which all beings and
animate things are perfected, and glorified
in their respective spheres.
	Students of this sense become, some
more, some less, familiar with the state of
that portion of the human family whose
varied conditions are typified by the stars.
They contemplate the intelligence, the
glory and the peace, typified by the moon,
and in progressive order this sense educates,
disciplines, enlightens, and-brings its pos-
sessor in harmony with the effulgence of
celestial light and glory as typified by the
sun. All that enter this higher glory are
heirs with Jesus Christ, our elder brother,
in the pre-existent state, to all the knowl-
edge, power, exaltation, and glory pos-
sessed by the Father.
	When through our spiritual nature we
are in communion with God, we are draw-
ing nearer and nearer to each other, and
our words and works will blend more and
more harmoniously, until earth’s dutiful
children, recognizing universal spiritual
kinship, hail the peaceful millenial dawn,
and participate in the triumphant reign of
our God and His Christ.
EXPECTATION.
	Of the advanced thinkers and diligent

[Column 3]
workers who compose the Woman's
Triennial Council much is expected. Your
labors of preparation have been arduous;
the whisperings of this sense have dis-
armed opposition, and brought you to a
large measure of victory. The thought
wave of many a prayer is wafted to you as
inspiration, and in reciprocal order the
highest expression of your combined wis-
dom must radiate and inspire receptive
souls in all the world, stimulating them to
higher hopes, and stronger activities in the
cause of more enlightened civilization, and
a more perfect understanding of divine
science, as revealed through our Sixth
Sense, or the sense of spiritual understand-
ing.
	In closing, the writer, in loving sympa-
thy, asks that increased spiritual light may
illume the pathway of the various lines of
good work represented in the Triennial
Council.
SARAH M. KIMBALL.
Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Feb. 1895.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.
	MINUTES of the Woman Suffrage meet-
ing held February 5th, 1895, in the 14th
Ward Hall. Dr. Ferguson in the chair.
Sang “Come away,” prayer Prof. Stewart,
sang “Oh ye fair ones.” Dr. Ferguson
introduced Prof. W. M. Stewart, who in
his usual able and eloquent manner gave
his reason for being in favor of Suffrage for
women. Dr. S. B. Young was then intro-
duced by the president, he also gave some
excellent reasons why the ladies should
vote. Closing his remarks with the poem
entitled “The new star of Wyoming.”
Brother Adams of North Dakota was in-
troduced to the audience, and made a short
speech, thought all good women would
favor temperance. Committees were then
formed for the entertainment to be given on
Susan B. Anthony’s birthday. Adjourned
for two weeks.

	Minutes of the Woman Suffrage meeting
held February 19th, in the 14th Ward Hall,
Dr. Ferguson in the chair. Committees
were chosen to wait upon the delegates to
the Convention. Report read of the enter-
tainment, and other business transacted.
Adjourned for two weeks.
	
	Minutes of meeting held March 5th in
the 14th Ward Hall, Dr. Ferguson in the
chair. Sang, “In twilight’s hour.” Prayer
B. Midgley.  Sang, “Hail the sound.”
Roll called, minutes read and approved.
Dr. Ferguson called for reports from those
appointed to interview delegates. Ruth
M. Fox had called three times but failed to
see the gentlemen. E. M. Price found all
favorable. M. E. Irvine’s companion D.
W. Eardley had been sick, they had not
visited. M. P. Silver said all she had
visited were in favor. Dr. Ferguson had
talked with a number, advised the ladies to
visit the convention, read a letter from
Rachel Foster Avery, acknowledging
twenty dollars sent by Salt Lake County
for Susan B. Anthony’s birthday fund, also
read an address entitled “Woman,” read
at the woman’s Convention. Adjourned
for two weeks.
					M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		-		Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cout regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
			Address all business communications to
					PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second class matter
			Salt Lake City April 15, 1895.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCES AND CONVENTIONS.

	MANY important occurrences have taken
place since the last issue of the Exponent
worthy of special mention, and it is a
matter of regret that so little space can be
given to current matters of great moment.
It is only daily papers or large magazines
nowadays that can keep pace with even
generalities.
	On the 4th of April the General Con-
ference of the Relief Society was held in
the Assembly Hall, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
presiding. There were representative
women from nearly every stake of Zion,
and the reports were favorable and en-
couraging. In the afternoon there was a
very large congregation, though the
weather was unpropitious. The evening
session was most enjoyable; President
Joseph F. Smith attended and gave a very
eloquent and interesting address.
	The General Conference of the Church
opened in the large Tabernacle on Friday
the 5th of April and lasted three days dur-
ing which time many excellent discourses
were delivered by the Apostles, the first
Presidency and other Elders and certainly
the instructions were calculated to reach all
the spiritual needs of the people and to
benefit them temporally also. The at-
tendance was large and from all quarters
and the spirit of the meetings was uplifting
to all who listened. There seemed to be a
word in season to all whatever their circum-
stances or conditions in life might be. Ex-
hortation, instruction, encouragement, ad-
monition, all blended in a way to bless and
to promote a stronger bond of union and
of love and a greater flow of the Holy
Spirit which leads into the light eternal.
	The Constitutional Convention is still in
session, and numbers are still struggling
with varied questions, that seem difficult
for them to decide or at least to agree upon.
The majority report of the committees on
Elections and Suffrage, though it has passed
its third reading and each time a large
majority of the members have voted for it
to be a part of the Constitution, yet the
dissatisfied minority are still determined to
get it reconsidered, and want it the matter
of suffrage for women submitted as a
separate proposition. This proves to any
well-balanced mind that it is not equal
suffrage, because to be equal in suffrage
with men it must be in the Constitution. If
women get suffrage as a separate proposition
they do not come into the new state on an
equal platform. The new state will need
all its citizens, and all equally responsible.

[Column 2]
Even the men who made the minority
report on Elections and Suffrage will ac-
knowledge without doubt that Victor Hugo
was right when he said the nineteenth cen-
tury was woman’s era. But whether they
do or not, it will make no difference with
facts. “The ridicule of facts does not change
their character.” John Stuart Mill said "the
majority of the male sex cannot yet tolerate
the idea of living with an equal.” Men of
the great West are generally spoken of as
being great-souled men with broad views
and liberal opinions on all questions con-
cerning human rights, let us hope it will be
so with the members of the Utah Constitu-
tional Convention, and that all women as
well as all men may be accorded the same
rights and privileges in the new state.
	The numerously signed petitions asking
that the clause relating  to equal suffrage
remain in the Constitution, are from all
parts of the Territory and were there time
many more signatures could be obtained,
but it was expected the men who were
elected upon equal suffrage platforms would
give the plank place in the Constitution,
without being besieged by Memorials and
Petitions.
	We must not neglect to mention the com-
ing of Susan B. Anthony, Rev. Anna Shaw
and other distinguished women who are to
hold a Conference in this city May 13, 14
and 15, and it is to be hoped the men and
women who are so strongly opposed to
equal suffrage for Utah, will go and hear
these celebrated advocates of justice and
equality who are known throughout the
wide, wide world. Salt Lake City should
give these famous speakers a hearty wel-
come.


[Column 1]
BACK TO THE LONG AGO.
	
	As I have many and varied themes to
write upon, with small space of time for it,
the old adage often given in my copy-books
to profit from, stands out in full force before
me, “Procrastination is the thief of time.”
I must now go back to “October’s Glory,”
take you along with our party of six cousins,
in easy conveyance over hill and down dale,
through woodland and vale, with clear blue
skies above and all beneath and around
brilliant in coloring and radiant in the glory
of beautiful garments. The trees seemed
“to clap their hands and break forth into
singing,” the oak, maple ash, hickory, birch,
poplar, spruce, lofty pines, hack matacks,
with red sumach glowing like fire of the
“burning bush,” bright warm sunshine
pure, soft, breezy air floating over and
among them, inspiring all hearts with praise,
and to joyful acceptance of the Scriptural
declaration “He hath made all things
beautiful in their time.” And what more fit-
ful season, after long years, to revisit the
places and scenes of early youth once so
familiar, now in October’s glory of golden
yellow, red, brown, green, with varied tints
and shades, illuminated in gorgeous splen-
dor, gladdening body and mind with its mar-
velous beauty; and thus all the way through
towns, hamlets and villages, to and from
our dear grandparents farm, we found de-
lightful entertainments, glorious company,
ample refreshments, good accommodations
for ourselves and teams. And then to lodge
in the same bed-rooms where oftimes in
childhood I had done, and look through the
same small panes of glass and watch the
same stars as they appeared twinkling in

[Column 2]
the sky upon me, and then to rise in the
morning, and look through this old fashioned
window out upon kitchen and old time.
flower gardens, where once bees reveled in
their sweets and stored immense piles of
purest honey in their hives placed in rows
under protecting shelter built for them be-
neath the overhanging lilacs then to climb
the stairs into the old attic chambers, see
and breathe in the aromatic fragrance of
various medicinal herbs, the same as were
gathered in days long ago hung in the same
order on the great beams overhead, the
floor spread thick with golden yellow corn,
nuts, etc. As of yore impressed me to ex-
claim—has time in its flight turned back-
ward, else why am I thus confronted
with these emblems of half a century and
more? The large old barn of massive tim-
ber in which we have played “merry
frolics,” that has withstood storms heat
and colds, for more than two centuries,
collapsed, July 10th, 1894, with noise that
reverberated over the place shaking the old
farm-house like an earthquake, so that
feature, as well as saddle and dairy houses,
cider mill, long sheds, fences with gates of
entrance are removed—a nice new barn not
as commodious but sufficient for present
purposes of the farm replaces the old, so
dear in memory of childhood days.
	The interior of the “Auld House” has
undergone some alterations, the roof has
recently been now shingled, yet the whole
exterior aside from the roof, now minus of
its bright coat of former days, has a decided
wasting away appearance. Clap boards
near the foundations breaking, crumbling,
testify to its venerable age and of changes
bravely withstood through successive gen-
erations—wonderful tales, histories of facts,
tradgey and comedy, anecdotes, and inci-
dents, pathetic and humorous all having the
authority of knowledge indisputable might
be written that would make volumes of
scenes enacted within the walls, of this
ancient dwelling and surroundings. Two
of its sons reared within its walls went forth
to the battles of the Revolution, others of
another generation were in the war of 1812
and many descendants of this house-
hold in the Mexican, and our late war for
the Union. But I must not linger to re-
late doings however brave or romantic, of
our paternal fathers and mothers. I must
now take you through the once flourishing
apple orchard over the huge stone wall, up
the steep hillside pasture over boulders of
stone to the once famous “Bears Den,”
where they made their lair in security un-
til this then wilderness land, was taken set-
tled upon and cultivated into a fruitful farm
by our paternal ancestors. Here the first,
that came, shot, we are told, two large bears
and afterward with his sons exterminated
these, and other wild beasts. And here
once more we stand, after an absence of
forty years, gazing down its rocky sides in-
to its cavernous depths. We will not at-
tempt to explore them, nor walk across the
massive rock-bridge that spans the chasm
beneath; a feat often performed without fear
in childhood days—two of our party how-
ever, pass around these rocks through
jungle of brush and briar, explore this
ancient den, come out from beneath the
rock-bridge climbing up the side of the
cave as far as possible to be drawn out to
the top by strong muscular arms near the
wonderful large, black birch tree, that
seemed without other aid to grow out from
the rocks, a land mark of the place, I


[Column 1]
would have been sorry to have missed,
from its trunk I have peeled bark, and from
its branches broken twigs. It is bent
gnarled, withered, yet has not failed (I am
told) to put forth in some parts of it, bud
and leaf in its season. Ah, how many
memories of other days the sight of this old
tree brought back to me!
	But I turn and ramble alone far out over
the hill-top overlooking the place where I
first saw the light and where we once lived
many years. The spacious barn is in good
condition—the vacant spot where the house
stood that was destroyed by fire, was in
mind easily rebuilt, repeopled and abound-
ing with life as in years long past. Dear
mother was at the door, father too, as if re-
turning home many children running to
and fro, over the lawn, in the garden and
across the way where travellers paused by
the roadside for their animals to slake their
thirst in the clear waters, that constantly
flowed into a deep receptacle from a never
failing spring in the hillside above—I
fancied I heard the same rippling waters,
the sounds of flocks and herds, of insect,
bees and bird, the hum of voices then
seemed to greet me with all the old time
tenderness as I stood entranced with visions
brought out of the long ago past, until the
spell was broken, by calls for my return
where from the highest point of this rocky
hill-top, commanding an extensive view of
old farm and surrounding country we gaze
long and admiringly—finely cultivated
farms, lovely quiet homes, pasture-lands
with flocks and herds, variegated scenery,
broad swift flowing river taking its course
through meadow woodland and village,
where its water’s once turned the wheels of
busy industry, and its over flow appeared to
us as children, (before we had seen the
unrivaled waters of Niagara) a fall of tre-
mendous volume! Now we catch glimpses
of dome and spire in the distance—and far
away on the very limit of the horizon, the
church on Petersham hill. The spire and
dome of the building glows like fire neath
the sun’s golden rays that shine over, all
around in dazzling beauty on this glorious
October morning, presenting a living pic-
ture transparently beautiful! Only the
New Englander knows what sterling vir-
tues have been nurtured on these hill-farms
and what quick energy and abounding life
have flowed down from these same hillsides
into the best streams of the nation’s activity.
	The village now called Nichewaney, has
much the appearance of fifty years past
with the exception of mills removed, a new
school building replacing the old, all the
buildings are there looking as fresh (ex-
ternally at least,) as if neither cold or heat
of half, or even more than a century had
affected them; a few buildings have been
added but not enough to make any material
change. The steep factory hill has an easier
grade, sloping gradually to the river bridge,
the majestic old oak that spread its friendly
branches over us in our school-day plays
and all others who sought its friendly shade
at the top of the hill, was sacrificed to this
improvement—a land mark regretfully
missed yet I was cheered at sight of the
magnificent elm, further up the village by
the road-side, growing there before the
Declaration of Independance, and has now
attained to enormous height and breadth, its
gigantic limbs shading roadsides, lawn, and
the whole house once owned and occupied
by Col. Josiah Wheeler, War Veteran of
1812, and who kept the village store many
years, held numerous town and County

[Column 2]
offices, etc. A man much esteemed and by
the younger portion (of this, then, com-
munity) as a superior being, mostly I be-
lieve on account of the prefix to his name
as he was the only man in the place entitled
to such distinction. In these days the title
of Col. has become too numerous to be re-
garded with any great degree of reverent
veneration.
	Although this old New England Village
more outwardly a familiar aspect, I fully
realized that the life of days “Lang Syne,”
no longer existed. The old had passed
away, the young had grown old and grey
and followed with generations that live only
to murmur, “that life is but a dream soon
told.’’ I was a stranger, among a strange
people; we wandered through the old bury-
ing ground where in solitude undisturbed
the dust of our ancestor’s and others of our
kindred repose, no interments have been
made therein for more than a generation.
The massive stone wall that once surrounded
it lies prostrate on the earth, the wide black
weird looking gate of entrance gone, culti-
vated lands on two sides adjoining have now
a growth of heavy timber, mostly of pine,
which gives this isolated resting place of the
dead a somber aspect, with spirit commen-
dable after many years of neglect, trees
left to grow out of graves with undergrowth
of brush, briar tangled vines etc., have
been removed, broken stones repaired and
others reset—we lingered awhile by our
sister’s grave. The inscription name, dates,
with the beautiful verse our dear mother
had engraved thereon, is as plainly legible
as forty years gone.
	From this place looking northwest, we
behold the wooded mount, “Thripany
Morris,” belonging the Woodward estate,
from which many thousand cords of wood
have been taken and which is mournfully
associated with the death of our father.
We took different routes to and from this
ancient town, thereby affording excellent
opportunity to review this part of New
England after years of absence, we re-
turned through Nichewaney and through
the beautiful hill-farms, once familiar, now
nearly all owned or rented by foreigners,
and here I must say a real genuine Yankee
farmer, is about as scarce in this part of
New England as black pearls. We passed
through Petersham centre, a breezy height,
now, a summer resort for city dwellers, on
through Templeton, portions of Athol,
with its thriving villages, and farms, long
stretches of woodland, most enchantingly
charming; all arrayed in gorgeous splendor.
We reach the busy picturesque town of
Orange just as the golden light of day has
passed behind the western hills in splendid
glory. Here we separate, going our dif-
ferent ways, one, a descendant of our great
Uncle Seth Woodward who was all through
the Revolutionary War, has a home in Buf-
falo New York, the others (myself excepted)
reside in the Old Bay State. But the mem-
ory of those will be gratefully cherished,
who by their kindness enabled me to revisit
the places and scenes of early life in the
beautiful days of “October’s glory,”

	Someday, (Providence permitting) I may
tell you of other places of interest—visited
in New England, some of them quite noted,
famous in history; but it is hardly probable
any description given of its scenery, how-
ever picturesque or unique, of land or
water, could compare with the grandeur
and loveliness of Utah scenery, Utah, the
gem of the “Rockies,” and not even Mount

[Column 3]
Washingion or the White Granite Moun-
tains of New Hampshire, Green Mountains
of Vermont, nor the gem of Massachusetts
Mountains “Mount Holyoke, lifting itself
abruptly from the midst of a fertile and
highly cultivated valley, 1,000 feet, with
double track rail road over which to convey
visitors etc, to “Prospect House,” the most
commanding spot of the range, could ap-
proximate in sublimity to its mountains
glistening white and cold, in Mid-summer;
giant warders of vales below.
					L. M. HEWLINGS.
TENAFLY, N. J.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	ACCORDING to previous arrangement the
Utah Woman’s Press and Reapers clubs
met at the office of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
Saturday evening March 16th, 1895. The
object was a greeting to Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells, who is Honorary-president of the
Press Club, and the founder of both the
clubs mentioned, and to Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
president of the Press Club.
	Vice-president Ruth M. Fox of the Press
club presided. After the usual opening
exercises, Dr. Shipp was called upon to ad-
dress the meeting.
	The Doctor said that at that “Council of
Women” they had met some of the bright-
est women of America. There are
thousands of noble women working for the
elevation of mankind. It is a great joy to
know that woman is so busily engaged in
elevating humanity, for if woman improves
the influence will extend to all mankind.
	The papers that were read were all so
good, that at the reading of every one the
speaker thought, “well this is the best paper
that has been read.” They met many
people of classical education, and op-
portunities for the highest culture in every
way. And she felt they could have met
them as they did, if they had not been par-
ticularly blest. Mentioned the Rev. Ida
Hultin as a woman beautiful in face and
spirit. After making a speech she was re-
called three or four times. And the presi-
dent of the council smilingly referred to
her as the Prima Donna.
	Susan B. Anthony was so kind and even
motherly. She was ordinary and yet
extra ordinary. She took an interest in all
the speeches and extended her sympathy.
	In the papers, almost every subject was
touched upon. Religion, morality, dress
reform, training of children, etc.
	Mentioned as prominent among other
people Countess of Aberdeen, Lady Henry
Somerset, Frances Willard, Charlton Ed-
holm etc. Related an anecdote of the
Florence Crittenden Mission.
	Told us how Mrs. E. B. Well’s paper was
so very well received.
	The President, May Wright Sewall was
pleasant and just. Would corrrect any-
one freely and pleasantly. Mrs. Sewall
made beautiful and eloquent extempo-
raneous speeches, thereby showing her
powers of mind as well as her presence of
mind. After the Council the speaker
visited Boston, Cambridge and Plymouth
and had been charmed by historical and
other scenes.
	Mrs Wells felt those who had the privi-
lege of attending the National Council had
enjoyed an intellectual feast and superior
educational advantages and must have made
some positive advancement along all lines
of thought. Referred to the banquet on


Miss Anthony’s seventy-fifth birthday and
cordiality shown the Utah Women. Told
of her visit to the beautiful home of Mrs.
Avery at Somerton, Philadelphia and how
thoroughly she had appreciated the op-
portunity of seeing her in her own home
with her family, also of her visit to Mrs.
May Wright Sewall of her splendid home,
in Indianapolis describing it, and the school
residence, as also the school building, and
the Propyaelum. Mrs. Wells mentioned
several women particularly, as among the
most celebrated Mesdames May Wright
Sewall, Susan B. Anthony, Rachel Foster
Avery, Rev. Anna Shaw, Mary Lowe
Dickinson, Isabella Charles Davis, Mrs.
Sarah Mink, Caroline E. Buell and many
others. Mrs. Wells also stated that the
Council in its entirety would make an epoch,
in the history of woman surpassing any
other assembly of women that had ever
been held, also referred to the time when
she had first gone down to Washington ac-
companied by Mrs. Zina Young Williams;
also spoke of her severe disappointment
when “Aunt Zina’’ failed to come down to
the Council, felt Mrs. Young would have
made a good impression.
	After the remarks of Mrs. Wells refresh-
ments were served and the time spent in
social chat until adjournment.
		LIZZIE S. WILCOX, Rec. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT REUNION.

	MARCH the 10th being the 17th anniver-
sary of the organization of the Summit Re-
lief Society, of the Parowan Stake of Zion
it was duly celebrated on the 11th, com-
mencing at 2 p. m. The meeting was
called to order by President Lette Dailey.
Singing by the choir, prayer by Bishop 
Joseph B. Dailey. An interesting pro-
gramme was rendered by the sisters of the
Relief Society interspersed with remarks by
Patriarch James Dailey, Wm. Dailey, S. C.
Hulet and Joseph H. Armstrong. An
essay by Sister Susie Armstrong, entitled
“Woman’s Influence,” being worthy of
special mention. At the close of the meet-
ing President Lette Dailey wished all the
local and visiting members of the Relief
Society with their husbands to adjourn to
her home as she wished to talk to them.
What was their surprise upon arriving
there to find three large tables spread with
the comforts of life of which seventy of the
brethren and sisters partook. After which
all returned to the hall to enjoy themselves
in dancing, refreshments being served dur-
ing the evening. All went home feeling
that the day was one long to be remember-
ed.					A. M. DALLEY, Sec.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S INFLUENCE.

	EVER since the days of mother Eve;
woman’s influence has been manifest for
the advancement or retrogression of the
people of the earth. Even Eve herself is
an example of this, as through her in-
fluence over Adam he partook of the for-
bidden fruit thereby bringing upon them-
selves the displeasure of the Almighty and,
causing what is called the fall of man.
And so it has been from that time until the
present; woman by her influence has been
more or less responsible, for the conditions
of society. Let us follow the different
spheres and positions of a woman’s life and

[Column 2]
note the influence they have over those
with whom they are associated.
	We will first view her as a sister. What
a beautiful thing is a true sister’s love and
devotion to her brothers and sisters. How
she watches with keen interest their ad-
vancement. And if misfortune overtake a
brother or sister or if they be weak and
wayward a sister may with love and kind-
ness accomplish that which parents may
have found almost impossible in reclaiming
the weak and wayward, or smoothing the
path of misfortune. Or if she be selfish
and indifferent to the interests of those
with whom she is associated; how much
sorrow and heartache she may cause; and
instead of being a help and encouragement,
her influence will tend to discourage and
lead the weak and wayward from the path
of duty into sin and shame. And what a
joy and consolation to parents is a dutiful,
loving, and devoted daughter. How she
watches with tender solicitude their every
interest and tries with her utmost power to
lighten mother’s burden or to smooth the
furrows of care from father’s brow. And,
if there should be younger brothers and
sisters, she will strive to win their love and
esteem and set an example that is worthy
of imitation. Such a daughter will exert
such an influence over all with whom she
comes in contact that will prove to be a
lasting good to herself and a constant joy
and consolation to her parents.
	And then there comes the sphere of wife-
hood; who but the husband can realize the
influence the wife exerts over his being.
And if she be a wife in the truest sense
she is ever willing to smooth the rough
places and share the many burdens of life.
And if poverty overtake him it is she who
endeavors to brighten the dull places and
make things which would seem almost
unbearable to appear as only small trials.
	But, should she be the opposite and al-
ways look on the dark side of life and be
forever complaining, and fault finding, how
soon would he partake of that spirit more
or less or finding such a spirit uncongenial
to his own he would soon leave the place
that should have the most attraction for him
to find pleasure wherever it could be found.
	And last but not least in the sphere of
womanhood is that holy one called mother.
What sacred and divine thoughts that name
inspires. In whatever condition in life that
sacred name indicates one who is the ideal
administering angel of our early infancy,
the comfort of our childhood, the guiding
star of our youth and the prop and stay of
our more mature years. Even in old age
men will look back to the time when
mother’s influence had saved them from
many mis-steps that would have been taken
had it not been for her gentle and wise in-
fluence. And so a mother may use her
influence whether it be for good or bad and
the result will be according to the seed she
has sown.
	So it is in every phase in life, be our
station high or low, rich or poor, bond or
free, woman by her influence may be
capable of doing much toward the perfect-
ing of the human family.
			SUSIE D. ARMSTRONG.


[Column 1]
SOCIAL PURITY.
	
	[An essay written for the W. H. P. R. 
class Conference at Logan, Oct. 20, 1894.]
	WHAT is social purity? Purity among 
the sexes. What a desirable condition. 

[Column 2]
Shall we ever live to witness it? Shall we
ever live to behold the day when people
will mingle together in society, and the one
not thrive at the expense of the others hap-
piness? Shall we ever live to see the day
when the deceiver shall be shunned? Shall
we ever see the day when defenseless wo-
men and children can pass our thorough
fares in safety?
	When will the day arrive when we will
be greeted by only pure and elevating
language? When can child-like confidence
be established? When! Oh when? Why
are the millions of teachers so lame in
bringing about that desirable condition?
Such are the questions of the thinking ob-
server. We hear voices crying from all
sides—Education! Education!
	Truly education will remedy these evils,
but what kind of education? The thous-
ands of colleges and universities under
steady operation—have yet failed to give to
us and to humanity at large, those desirable
conditions. In all their eagerness we only
see an increase in these evils instead of see-
ing them eradicated. Where then is the
remedy; in the family, in the home, where
the foundation of human existence takes
its existence beginning. Where husband
and wife only beget children as a result of
admiration for the regulation of a divine
Creator. When the strictest economy is
practiced between husband and wife, in re-
gard to purity in language, in appearance
and in action.
	Now to return to prenatal influence where
the instructing should begin. Some say
“how?” Simply by reading good books,
and associating with pure and refined people
thereby presenting to your child a picture
of grandeur and purity, and just as sure as
can be this will instil into babe a desire for
purity.
	On the other hand if you do not seek
company that elevates and ennobles you fall
into that kind of society which depresses
and destroys. And as it is good society
that blesses it is better to have none at all
than mingle with bad companions, pure
minds and morals will be dragged down or
lifted up according to quality and character
of society.
	So mothers do be the sole companion of
your child just as long as you can, be its
instructor in regard to laws that govern its
body, especially the organs of generation,
give a pure idea of them, teach that they
were not given for the mere gratification of
man, but for a grand purpose and point out
that purpose just as grandly as you can, and
every child will feel proud of its mission.
Some mothers think this subject too deli-
cate to speak to boys about, if you feel that
way procure books treating on this subject
and place in their hands. I know of one
woman who adopted this plan and presented
her son with a book with compliments and
an expressed wish from her as his mother,
that he read it carefully. She succeeded so
grandly that I never forgot it.
	One point I wish to make emphatic, that
is,—that a man void of virtue is just as vile
and no better than an unchaste woman.
But let such a man go among rich ladies
and put on a polished appearance, and he is
at once recognized as a “gentleman.” It
is a false criterion that puts a greater stigma
on woman than on man.
	Well my dear sisters this subject is so
broad and contains so many striking ideas,
were I able to portray them, but if we live
as purely as we know how, and rule our 
households under such conditions, we can


deliver to society suitable material to build
up the common structure called “Social
Purity.” A son coming from such a home
will not deceive his fellowman nor defile
his neighbors daughter, we will not pick
pockets nor rob houses at night, he will not
use vulgar and impure language,, he will
by his actions gain universal respect and
confidence. But how few of us realize the
responsibilities placed upon mothers, and
how many improve the opportunities we
have of molding the characters of our
children. Of course the child enherits as
much from the father as from the mother,
but to us mothers alone is intrusted the
modification of that inheritance. Keep
them as innocent children just as long as
possible, don’t make them think that they
must be men and women, but impress on
their minds that they are pure home children,
then you will find the manly men and wo-
manly women the world today stands in
need of.
KATIE HALLADAY CRAGAN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EQUAL SUFFRAGE SECTION.

[In the Convention, April 5th.]
	RICHARDS of Salt Lake, moved to adopt
the original section, and parliamentary
sparring and fillbustering and attempts to
adjourn at once commenced, but the gentle-
man from Salt Lake was successful and se-
cured a roll call vote on the passage of the
equal suffrage clause. It was as follows:
	Ayes—Allen, Anderson, Barnes, Boyer,
Brandley, Buys, Call, Cannon, Chidester,
Christainsen, Clark, Coray, Corfmar, Crane, 
Creer, Cunningham, Driver, Eichnor,
Eldredge, Emery, Engberg, Evans, of
Weber, Farr, Francis, Gibbs, Goodwin,
Hammond, Hart, Halliday, Heybourne,
Howard, Hughes, Hyde, Ivins, Johnson,
Kimball, of Salt Lake, Kimball, of Weber,
Lambart, L. Larson, Lemmon, Lewis,
William Lowe, Peter Lowe, Low of Cache, 
Maeser, Maloney, Maughan, McFarland,
Miller, Morris, Murdock of Beaver, Mur-
dock of Wasatch, Murdock of Summit,
Partridge, Peters, Peterson, of Grand,
Peterson, of Sanpete, Preston, Raleigh,
Richards, Ricks, Robertson, Robinson, of
Kane, Robinson of Wayne, Shurtliff, Snow,
Squires, Strevell, Symons, Thompson,
Thoresen, Thorne, Thurman, Wells,
Whitney—75.
	Noes—Haynes, Hill, Page, Pierce, Rob-
erts, Ryan, Sharp, Spencer, Stover, Van
Horne—14.
	Absent—Adams, Evans, of Utah, Jolley,
Kearns, Kerr, C. P. Larsen, Moritz,
Nebeker, Thatcher, Varian, Warrum,
Williams—12.
	Excused—Bowdle, Button, Cushing,
Green, James—5.
	The Convention then adjourned until
Monday at 10 a. m.


[Column 1]
SILK  ASSOCIATION MEETING.

	THE Utah Woman’s Silk Association met
Thursday, April 4th, in the Assembly Hall,
Mrs. Salisbury in the chair. A large num-
ber of members and interested listeners
were present. The secretary’s report was
read and accepted.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells gave an interesting ac-
count of her visit to Washington in the in-
terest of the silk industry. She found sena-
tors and congressmen pretty well informed
with regard to the industry. A bill had

[Column 2]
passed the Senate at the last session of Con-
gress which provided for the establishment
of five silk experiment stations, but had
been lost sight of in the House, Mr. Cannon,
our present delegate, had promised to pre-
pare a bill to establish a silk experiment
station. Members of Congress assured
Mrs. Wells that such a bill properly pushed
would pass both houses. The paper which
Mrs. Wells read before the National Coun-
cil of Women gave a brief account of the
silk industry in Utah and aroused much in-
terest. At Atlanta Mrs. Wells spoke be-
fore the Women’s Board of Managers of the
Utah silk industry.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young spoke a few
words of encouragement to silk producers.
Let people who have little to do undertake
something of this kind, and they will be
happy and at the same time add to the re-
sources of the Territory. The quality of
our silk is so good that we would need but
few garments made of it. The children
could help in the care of the worms and
the young ladies can learn to reel.
	Mrs. Margaret Csine spoke of the suc-
cess of the women who raised cocoons last
year in St. George. They made about five
hundred dollars from cocoons. A fortune
cannot be made from the silk industry im-
mediately. No one would expect to take
up any trade or business and master all its
details at once. One must have experience
in any trade before it can become remunera-
tive. The cocoon to be of any value must
be of the best quality. No food must be
used for the worms except the mulberry
leaves. The worms, it was true, would
thrive on lettuce leaves or currant leaves,
but the object was not to raise worms but to
produce silk. The silk produced from any
kind of food but mulberry leaves is worth-
less. If the people of Utah do not take
up this industry others will do so. There
have already been inquiries from Italians,
Japanese and Hindoos as to the price of land
and the chances of success for a silk rais-
ing colony. The people of Utah should
keep this industry in their own hands.
The woolen mills of the Territory use every
year thousands of dollars worth of silk fill-
ing. We must learn to reel and keep this
money at home.
	Mrs F. S. Richards related some interest-
ing experiences in silk culture. She be-
lieved it a duty for women to take pride in
home made silk and home made clothes.
The women can in this practical way make
our Territory prosperous.
	Mrs. Ann Woodbury, of St. George, re-
ported that last year a good many pounds of
cocoons were raised in Washington county,
and this year still more will be raised.
The price realized for cocoons was about one
dollar a pound.
	Miss Harrison spoke of the art of reel-
ing, declaring it to be an easy one to learn.
She would gladly teach others what she had
learned. One can easily reel half a pound
of silk a day.
	Mrs. Gilmer advocated a systematic effort
to secure a market for home raised cocoons
and silk.
	The president promised that the matter
should receive immediate attention.
	Mrs. Salisbury read the articles which
might be exhibited at the Cotton exposition
at Atlanta. It would be most important to
make a good showing there. All articles
should be submitted to the committee ap-
pointed to take charge of the exhibit.
	Mrs. Wells moved that the association

[Column 3]
make an exhibit of Utah silk at Atlanta
The motion was unanimously carried.
	In response to a question with regard to a
supply of eggs, the president announced
that Miss Harrison has Japanese eggs for
sale at $2.50 a card, each card containing
thirty or forty thousand eggs.
	Adjourned to meet at the call of the
president.
CORINNE M. ALLEN, Sec.


APPRECIATION AND THANKS.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Utah, April 5, ’95.
	HON. J. F. Chidester, Chairman; A. S.
Anderson, Joseph E. Robinson, Parley
Christensen, Peter Lowe, James D. Mur-
dock, Chester Call, Andreas Engberg, A.
H. Raleigh, William Howard, F. A. Ham-
mond and S. R. Thurman:
	Honorable gentlemen of the majority re-
port of the committee on electlons and
rights of suffrage:
	The equal suffrage memorial committee
in special session and by unanimous vote,
desire to express their profound apprecia-
tion and gratitude for the wise, statesmanly
and just measure which you have reported
to the constitutional convention; and for
the ability, steadfastness and sleepless vigi-
lance with which you have assisted on the
floor of the convention in expounding, de-
fending and conducting to a successful issue
your opportune and faithful provisions on
civil and political rights of men and women.
And with you we wish to commend as lov-
ers of justice all those praiseworthy men
whose voices and votes contributed to the
final result, with Richards, Whitney,
Evans, Cannon, Murdock, Ricks, Hart,
Ivins, Snow, Robinson, Allen, Miller, Farr,
Preston, Maeser, Wells, and all the other
noble delegates who have borne testimony
to their willingness to accord equal rights,
we feel in duty bound to extend these con-
gratulations on behalf of the thousands of
Utah women who are keenly alive to the
unspeakable importance of the legislation
thus achieved in relation to the status of
women, the welfare of the state and the
progress of civilization.
	We realize the enormous difficulties which
yon have been called upon to surmount;
and we honor you for your unflinching in-
tegrity and your unswerving devotion to
the principles of liberty in framing the fun-
damental law for the coming state of Utah.
on which our proudest hopes are sacredly
enshrined, now that the woman mind and
heart and soul are fully incorporated in its
sovereignty.
			SARAH M. KIMBALL.
	Chairman of Standing Committee on
Suffrage Memorial.
			EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	President of the Territorial Suffrage
Association.
			EMILY S. RICHARDS.
Chairman of Memorial Committee.
			CORA G. CARLETON.
				Secretary pro tem.


TESTIMONY OF MRS. BASSETT.

	AT the Semi-monthly meeting of ladies
held in the Fourteenth Ward Hall, Salt
Lake City, Sister Mary E. Bassett, presi-
dent of the Second Ward Relief Society,
in referring to the prevalent views of pro-


fanity and intemperance, which have so in-
creased of late in our midst, related her
early experience in the cuhrch.
	She said she was born in Missouri and
was a little girl when the Saints were driven
from their homes by an infuriated and
and bloodthirsty mob. She afterwards with
her parents found a home at Nauvoo and
remained in that city and vicinity until
again by mob violence compelled to seek a
home farther west. Among the earlier
emigrants she crossed the great desert
plains, and after suffering from want and
privation, settled in this, then, wild and
barren valley, during all those trying ex-
periences, and while encountering all these
trials and difficulties, she never once heard
the name of Deity profaned, and not until she
had grown to womanhood had she seen an
intoxicated man or woman.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	WHEREAS, In the dispensation of Divine
Providence our esteemed co-laborer, one of
the Vice-Presidents of the Territorial Wo-
man’s Suffrage Association, Caroline E. Dye
departed this life February 26th, 1895, we
deem it expedient that we in some public
manner express our appreciation of her
many good qualities and of her efficient ser-
vices Therefore be it:
	Resolved: That the Utah Woman’s Suf-
frage Association commend the self-sacrific-
ing devotion of our loved friend to the cause
of purity, equal justice, and religious in-
tegrity. Mrs. Dye was ever discreet,
liberal and progressive. She was eminently
social, pleasing and considerate in manner.
	Resolved, That we deeply condole with
the family and with the community of which
Mrs. Dye formed so lovable and important a
part.
	Resolved, That we venerate her mem-
ory, and commend the amiable and helpful
example of our loved friend and sister.
					Sarah M. Kimball.


A WORD TO THOSE WHO ARE IN-
TERESTED IN THE SILK
CULTURE.

	I HAVE been asked by individuals of
this and other cities, my opinion of the
best method of raising food for silk worms.
Numerous questions have been asked in
regard to this matter and some ladies have
asked if the leaves of currant bushes,
burdock, cabbage and lettuce, and other
vegetables on small shrubs can be used with
any good results.
	I say emphatically No. Nothing must
be used except mulberry leaves and these
must be new, tender and rich.
	The first consideration in the growth of
silk worms is food, which, as I have said
before must be the finest mellow leaves,and
after one is sure of their leaves, then hatch
the worms.
	These leaves can be obtained by first
trimming the old trees very close, which
causes the leaves to grow thicker upon the
branches and much richer with sap.
	Better results will be obtained by treating
the old trees in this manner, than by letting
them remain in the old bushy state.
	After trimming the old trees, take the
slips and cut to about eighteen inches long,
and plant in the bottom and against one
side of a ditch eight inches deep; the slips
about two feet apart and with one or more


buds in the soil, and two or more buds
above the top of the ditch. This manner
protects the roots from the direct rays of
the sun. 
	The ditches must be kept continually
moist, not wet, for too much water will
ruin the slips and cause them to rot.
	Do not depend upon slips until the
second year, by which time the leaves will
be thick and rich, and the trees will grow
to a heighth of from three and a half to
five feet. This also saves climbing trees
and children can gather the leaves as readily
as older persons.
	Keep both old and young trees trimmed,
not too much but enough to cause the leaves
to become brittle and moist.
					ELLA PYPER.


EX-GOVERNOR BRAYMAN DEAD.

	KANSAS CITY, Feb. 27.—Gen. Mason
Brayman, aged 81 years, ex-governor of
Idaho, the oldest Mason in the United
States, and former associate in legal practice
with Abraham Lincoln, died here today at
the home of his son-in law, Theodore
Gowdy, of Bright’s disease. The body was
taken to Ripon, Wis., to be interred by the
side of the deceased’s wife.
	Gen. Brayman was born in 1813 in
Buffalo, N. Y. In 1835 he was admitted
to the bar. He then went to Louisville,
where he edited a paper and practiced law.
He alternated between the two professions,
obtaining eminence in both.
	In 1842 he removed to Springfield, Ill.,
and began the practice of law. While in
Springfield he was a neighbor of Lincoln,
and was associated with him in many a case.
The intimacy begun then continued until
Lincoln’s death.
	Gov. Brayman was one of the men sent to in-
vestigate the troubles in Nauvoo after the exodus,
his wife went with him, both of them have
stated to the writer the sympathy they felt for the
sufferings, and hardships of our people at that
time and that they could never forget the scenes
they witnessed.—ED.


IN MEMORIAM.

	FROM the Utah County Board of officers of Silk
Association, who desire to express their deep
respect, love and appreciation of the life and
labors so exemplary verified in our beloved Sis-
ter Sarah B. Saunders, who departed this life in
Provo, March 31st, 1895, aged sixty four years,
and nine months, after an illness of three weeks
caused by paralysis, and who held the position of
Vice President in this association for eight years.
	Resolved that we honor and cherish her many
virtues and Christian spirit for truly peace and
charity covered her whole being as a mantle and
beamed from her pure countenance and in her
death we lose an indefatigable and clever work-
er in silk. In the incipiency of this organization,
she persistently persevered in weaving handker-
chiefs from very crude material upon a home
improvised loom her last effort was in weaving
over forty yards of silk from which our flag is
made, she was very desirous this industry should
be successfully and permanently established and
lent her best energies to the same. And while
we shall miss her we realize she has gone to her
reward after having led a good and faithful life, to
meet those gone before, may those who remain
follow her worthy example and ever remember
the love she evinced for them.
	Resolved that we publish this tribute of esteem,
send a copy to the family and place it upon our
record.
					M. A. TILL, President.
	SARAH GOODMAN, Vice Prest., in behalf of
the board.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	IN memory of Lydia Laura Lewis. It is with
sincere regret, and heartfelt sorrow that we have


to record the death of our beloved sister an<d>
companion, Lydia Lauretta Lewis, who departe
this life February 22nd, A. D. 1895, at Oxfor
Idaho, after a short but painful illness
peritonitis, being sick only eight days, July 10th
1868. She was the beloved wife of William A.
Lewis, who is left with three small children
to mourn their sad loss. Sister Lewis was a pure,
and loving wife, a kind and indulgent mother, and
a faithful Latter-day Saint, she was an earnest
worker in the Relief Society of the Ox-
ford Ward, being the secretary of the same.
Now, we the officers and members of the
Relief Society of Oxford, Idaho, desire to ex-
press our deep and lasting sympathy for, and sin-
cerely condole with the bereaved family in the
loss of one, who, by her noble and exemplary
life, was endeared to us all. Therefore we bow in
humble submission to the Divine will of Him.
“Who tempers the wind to the shorn Lamb,”
and pray that the comforting influence of God’s
Holy Spirit may bring sweet con[-]olation to the
bereaved ones in this their great affliction.

	They’ve lain you dear one down to rest,
		Whom God has called from earth away.
	Gone to enjoy that Heavenly rest,
		She heard the “call” and could not stay. 
	The parting filled your hearts with grief
		So hard to lose the one you love,
	Her sojourn here on earth was brief,
		Her home is with the just, above.
	She fain would tarried here on earth
		With husband, parent, children dear,
	Our sorrowing hearts are filled with dearth
		Because we could not keep her here.
	And when the cruel shaft was hurled
		And death, your loving wife did take,
	And darling mother from the world,
		It seemed as though your hearts must break.
	May God above in mercy hear
		Our prayers, and consolation give
	To friends and kindred sorrowing near
		And teach us Father how to live.
	That when our earth’s work here is o’er
		We may be called to Heaven above
	And join the dear one gone before.
		And dwell with her in endless love, 
	There no more parting, pain, or tears,
		No sorrows to disturb our rest.
	For God will banish all our fears
		In realms above, home of the blessed.
‘Blow gently ye wild winds, our darling’s asleep,
	She’s resting at last in her narrow bed,
Disturb not her slumbers, but soft requiems keep.
	O’er the grave of our loved one, our beautiful
		dead.”


Salt Lake School Of Obstetries
and Nursing.
	A NUMBER of students from this school
passed examinations before the Utah
Medical Board of Examiners on the first of
January and received licenses to practice
Obstetrics. Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp will com-
mence a Summer Class on the sixth of May
in the Fourteenth Ward Relief Society
Hall. The terms for entire course is ten
dollars. Books six dollars. Those desir-
ing further information address 34 S. 7 East
St.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
