VOL. 23.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15 AND OCTOBER 1, 1894.	NO. 6 AND 7.


CONTENTS:

	In Rural England. U. W. P. C—R. M. Fox.
How it Feels to be a Voter—Woman's Journal
A Pleasant Evening—L. J. A Reverie. Femi-
nine Hints. Ladies' Semi-monthly Meeting—V.
Young Woman Suffrage Column. Pen Names
—E. B. W. The Household Economic Associa-
tion—Ellen A. Richardson. From The Woman's
Journal.
	EDITORIAL:—The Political Question. Edi-
torial Notes.
	POETRY:—Times Delight—Lucy. "I Guess I
Can."—Mrs. Emma Playter Seabury. Sing Me
A Song Today—Hyacinth. Eventide—E. B. W.
Parting—Selected.


TIME’S DELIGHT.

For The Exponeut:—
ALL through the chilly hours of winter
Through its gloom or bright sunshine,
Springtime’s budding, or bloom of summer,
Autumn’s golden fruits and grain 
I watch and wait, and vainly linger,
For some echo, token, sign,
From beyond time’s mystic line.

So time glides on, and will not delay
Morning, noon, and eventide,
In swift review pass along their way,
Nought unchanged can here abide.
Man’s golden youth is a summer’s day,
Merging into active noon,
That stretches over a toilsome way,
Down life’s hillside all too soon.

But we’ll strive life’s duties to obey,
Content to sing our low refrains,
Time’s flight no mortal e’er can stay,
O’er all the world it rules and reigns.
Tenafly N. Y. LUCY.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XLII.

	AND Mr. Harrison sitting there beside
Mrs. Bland under the great pines in the
dense forest only a little distance from what
is now one of the largest cities in the East,
told her of his first love—when as many a
man before and since has, he loved des-
perately a woman older than himself. Like
the boy in Byron’s Dream.

“These two, a maiden and a youth, were there
Gazing—the one on all that was beneath
Fair as herself, but the boy gazed on her;
And both were young, and one was beautiful;
And both were young, yet not alike in youth.
As the sweet moon in the horizon’s verge,
The maid was on the eve of womanhood;
The boy had fewer summers, but his heart
Had far outgrown his years, and to his eye
There was but one beloved face on earth.
And that was shining on him; he had look’d
Upon it till it could not pass away;
He had no breath, no being, but in hers;
She was his voice, he did not speak to her,
But trembled on her words; she was his sight,
For his eye followed hers, and saw with hers,
Which color’d all his objects;—he had ceased
To live within himself; she was his life,
The ocean to the river of his thoughts,
Which terminated all; upon a tone,
A touch of hers, his blood would ebb and flow,
And his cheek change tempestuously—his heart
Unknowing of its cause of agony.
But she in these fond feelings had no share:
Her sighs were not for him, to her he was
Even as a brother—but no more; ’twas much,
For brotherless she was, save in the name
Her infant friendship had bestow’d on him;
Herself the solitary scion left
Of a time-honor’d race.”

	This was almost literally true in the case
of Robert Harrison. He confessed to Mrs.
Bland that he had no assurance of the love
of Clarice Courtney he had loved her as an
object enshrined, too good and pure to be
like other mortals, and when Sir Edward
Hilliard was accepted by her, he had
stormed and raged like one bereft of reason
and nearly broken his mother’s heart.
Afterwards they went abroad and there in
a foreign land his mother died; these two
great sorrows had so embittered his life
that, he had never really cared to mark out
any future, and no woman had ever
awakened an emotion of love in him from
that time until he saw his cousin’s daugh-
ter in the ball room in London, and it took
him back to the days of his boyhood. He

[Column 2]
recounted to Mrs. Bland many incidents of
his early life, but in it all she could not
discern in the least any return of his un-
bounded affection from the cousin whom
he so passionately adored, recompense for
the supreme affection he lavished upon her,
it was the ideal fancy of a boy for a mature
woman; yet she did not express her feel-
ings lest it might wound him, she waited
to see what he would say to her.
	“And now my story is told I have laid
bare my heart to you concealing nothing,”
said he. “What have you to say to me.”
You know, “for quickly comes such know-
ledge,” that I loved you from the first with
a devotion founded upon principle, I saw
your superiority to other women, even to
Lady Anna, I noted your strength of
character, your integrity to the family of
your kinsman, I heard you spoken of too, by
men, men of rank in the world, during that
London season, men who look below the
surface of things; and again and again your
uncle’s solicitors in London eminent barris-
ters, when Clair was with me and we were
arranging his affairs declared they had
never seen a girl like that Miss Conway—
such capacity, such judgment, such execu-
tive ability, they were astonished that you
had not been left equal in the will with his
own daughter. You have the Hilliard
character inherited from your mother, and
though I hated Sir Edward for carrying off
my cousin, yet from what I know of Eng-
lish history I am forced to acknowledge that
with all his faults, he had good blood in his
veins, the best blood of British lions: and I
forgive him now after all these years of
bitterness, and regret my estrangement
from the family, and most of all because
perhaps I might have saved from such a
fate my sweet cousin Anna, her mother’s
sacrifice and then hers, I cannot understand
it.”
	Mrs. Bland had listened to her lover (for
such he really was) while he told the story
she so longed yet dreaded to hear, and now
what answer must she give; she was al-
ready his in fact, if her own heart was the
criterion, she believed his love was honest,
she felt how lonely her life would be if she
should send him away; his arm encircled
her waist, her hand was clasped with tender
manliness, and he repeated the question so
often asked before, “And what have you
to say to me, will you be mine, my wife,
mine forever, to love, to cherish, to protect!”
And still Jane Bland hesitated, “What
more can I say, the devotion of my life,
what still remains, I know I am many
years your senior, but here in this new land,
I will begin a new career, I feel fresh im-
pulses for action, a great future awaits the
people who have settled here, they will
throw off the bondage of the mother coun-
try which oppresses them, there are men
ready to stand on a higher platform, you,
yourself know it, Sidney who has mingled
so much with the common people is aware
that, the sentiment of the country is under-
going a change, it will be a struggle, but it
will end in victory, it will give men of
brains, men of nerve an impetus unheard
of, will you share your fate with mine


[Column 1]
Shall we be united soon, it may be done
quietly, you feel perhaps this is too soon
after what has transpired, believe me Mrs.
Bland I have the utmost respect for the
dead, for Doctor Bland, and for his memory
—you shall never have reason to doubt it,
but I am anxious, I have waited long for
this, something seemed to tell me when I
first met you in London, that you would
yet be mine. Clair knows the feelings I
expressed when we were away together,
I dreaded to hear from home, that was why
you so seldom heard from us; but it was
necessary that Clair should come home,
matters of importance required his attention,
and I came to see my cousin, and she is
gone, but you are here and you are free,
if you refuse me now, I cannot stay here I
shall take Sidney and go away I know not
where, he needs the change, but Jane
Bland you will not refuse to take me now
as I am for better or for worse.”
	Jane Bland promised to consider, which
to say the least was decidedly philosophical
for a woman who was actually in love, but
it was in keeping with her whole life. Mr.
Harrison felt assured from her manner that
he was to be accepted and let the matter
pass; in his heart he commended her course,
for she had Conway’s future to think of
which was more to her than her own life.
	Some days went by full of pleasant in-
tercourse, long rambles, and drives, the
weather was fine, and out-door companion-
ship suited well the mood of love-making.
During one of these excursions, Mrs. Bland
inadvertently admitted to Mr. Barrington
that her future would be a blank unless
associated in some way with his uncle.
Sidney lost no time in repeating it, and the
matter was soon settled. Meantime Con-
way had become so endeared to Mr. Harri-
son that he was like his own son, and he
seemed to take the matter for granted. The
parties were so independently situated that
the matter was in their own hands, and Sid-
ney Barrington performed the marriage cere-
mony in the primitive little meeting house
where he had preached from the time of
settling in the colony. Only the few people
who had known them best were present
and there was no gaiety or wedding festivi-
ities whatever. A quiet winter followed,
and during the time letters had been inter-
changed by them with Clair and Maitland,
and as early as the weather would admit
the party set sail for England, to transact
some necessary business and to see Anna’s
children. Lady Walton was very desirous
of seeing Mrs. Harrison, and all things
considered it was a great satisfaction to
Mrs. H. herself, to visit Hilliard Castle and
take with her the little son, who had been
born on the estate. There were many
pleasant things connected with this visit to
her beautiful English home—many mem-
ories recalled, and visions of the past
awakened, that were sweet but sad. Some-
times she trembled lest the happiness she
experienced in being the wife of one she
loved so intensely should be only transient.
	Lady Walton had once reminded her how
passionately her husband had in his youth
loved Lady Hilliard, and added ‘‘it drove
him almost distracted when she married
Sir Edward, and to think after that he
could ever be in love, and with some one
so unlike I can scarcely credit my senses
when I see him with you, indeed it is
paralyzing, but he is a charming friend,
and so clever and brilliant, and withal his
eccentricities so fond of children. And Mr.
Barrington how I should like to hear him

[Column 2]
preach here, as he did in the colony, so
earnest, so reverent, I begin to feel the
need of some religious consolation.”
	“And why then do you not try to look
into the Scriptures and comprehend the say-
ings of the Savior, there is comfort and
strength in his words. Mr. Barrington
would help you if you would listen, he
would teach you, and you would find peace,
abiding peace.”
	“It is too late for me to accept a new
faith, I must still cling to my own, though
I do like the simple way these dissenters
have of feeding the people the word of life
and salvation.”
	After much more conversation about re-
ligion Lady Walton surprised Mrs. Harri-
son by saying she was sure her days were
numbered, and she begged her to obtain
Maitland’s consent to take the children
back to America, where they might have
the simple home training she knew Mrs.
Harrison would give them. It was exactly
what Jane Harrison was wishing and long-
ing for, and when she talked it over with
her husband, he began interceding almost
immediately, and Maitland needed very
little persuading.
	Mrs. Harrison had been much at the
castle but she had also been in Devonshire
to see the old home of her husband who
took much delight in showing Sidney as
well as his wife over the places he had
been familiar with in his boyhood and in
early manhood ere his life had been soured
by melancholy. Only a few remained of
those he remembered though many there
were who knew him and were glad to see
him among them again and urged him to
remain, but no inducement could be offered
that would have tempted either of the
three to settle down in England after hav-
ing lived only for so short a period in the
“new world,” and yet for the time being
the green fields the beautiful parks, the
verdant meadows, the luxuriant hedges,
the grand old oaks, had a charm that awaken-
ed emotions that touched the tenderest
chords of affection for their native land.
	After having spent the lovely summer
reveling in the beauties of the country,
Mr. and Mrs. Harrison began preparations
for their return, Clair Hilliard was to go
with them on a visit, and the children Ed-
ward and Anna Walton were to be com-
mitted to their care for a time; no definite
compact was made; Maitland assured Mrs.
Harrison he would come for them soon, be-
fore they had forgotten him. Edward was
a fine stalwart fellow and little Anna was
beautiful as a dream.
	Lady Walton was really much affected
when the time came for parting with them
and affirmed over and over again that she
should never see them more; her whole
manner of life was changed she had become
deeply religious and though she still clung
to her own established church yet she en-
joyed much more the simple faith of Sid-
ney Barrington.
	Mrs. Harrison’s leave-taking of the old
castle, (though there had been all sorts of
repairs and many changes made) was al-
most as sorrowful as on first leaving it to
embark for America. She went over and
through it with the children describing the
rooms and relating what had transpired of
interest to them, trying to impress upon
them the grandeur and significance of the
ancestral home of their mother and grand-
parents. There was a great change in the
surroundings even more than in the house
itself, for Clair had brought home with

[Column 3]
him ideas of other countries in the style
and material of furnishings, and poor old
Mrs. Burke who was very loyal to all that
was English, and hated foreigners, though
she loved Clair in spite of his gipsy blood,
as she called it, could not help expressing
herself emphatically to Mistress Jane
Harrison, (she persisted in using her given
name) “these new fangled wicker bamboo
things such trumpery, nothing solid or sub-
stantial about them cheap finery, the master
says they’re expensive luxuries, I hate to
see them, give me oak and mahogany that
look elegant instead of these, and such
showy curtains and hangings, drapery in-
deed yellow and red, whoever heard of it
in England, a lot of fal-de-rols, but he can’t
help it poor fellow it all comes of his
Italian blood, its sure to crop out, but his
voice, it makes up for everything, and such
a sweet temper, strange too, more like a
woman,” and Mrs. Burke after this long
harangue looked at Mrs. Harrison as much
as to say, and what have you to say in his
defence, but his cousin only quietly looked
Mrs. Burke full in the face and said, “your
master is in every way worthy his title, and
if he chooses to gratify his own taste in
and about the place there is no one to say
him nay.”


"I GUESS I CAN.”

	BY MRS. EMMA PLAYTER SEABURY.

SHE washed the dishes, and made the bed,
And patiently got on her knees to scrub;
In winter she milked the cows in the shed,
In summer bent o’er the steaming tub;
She made the garden, and swept and baked.
And cooked for boarders, and raked the hay,
And never complained that her poor head ached,
Or John was almost always away.
When they asked her if she would like to vote,
She said with a sigh and a look remote,
"I have done more work than my old man,
If I have the time, why, I guess I can."

She rocked the cradle the while she churned,
She kept the children so clean and neat,
And most of the living her poor hands earned,
While John talked politics in the street.
When any were sick, the watch she kept, 
She gathered the little ones Sabbath day,
And walked two miles to the church alway.
She mended and sewed while her husband slept,
She taught the children each day a spell;
When they asked if she favored the suffrage plan, 
She timidly glanced at her husband—"well,
If John is willing, I guess I can."

And so she drudged, and she baked and brewed,
And toiled from dawn to the midnight hour.


John drank, and gossiped, and spat and chewed,
And talked and grumbled, of “woman’s sphere.”
And her children grew into stalwart men,
Brave and helpful, and by her side;
She knew she made them, and once again,
When they asked the question, she said with pride,
“There’s a hundred-dollar woman sometimes
Yoked to a small ten-dollarman.
I’m sure it isn’t one of the crimes
To vote against him. I guess I can.”
	Montecito, Cal. THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL.


WOMANS EXPONENT


U. W. P. C.

	MINUTES of the U. W. P. C. held in Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp’s parlor Aug. 31st, 1894,
President Shipp in the chair. Prayer by
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder. The Secretary being
absent Ruth M. Fox was elected Sec. pro
tem. Roll responded to by sentiments
from Bryant; Minnie J. Snow and Melise
Wilson were accepted as members. A very
pathetic original poem was read by Nellie
C. Taylor. An interesting and instructive
paper on heredity was then read by Dr. E
R. Shipp followed by a very able address on
the same subject by Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson
C. Louise Boydon favored the club with a
choice selection on the piano and Mary A.
Freeze read one of her own poems, after
which a motion was made and carried that
we devote twenty five minutes next meet-
ing to the discussion of heredity. E. B.
Wells then gave us an entertaining and
much appreciated paper on Pen Names.
The same lady read current events, Miss
Patterson not being present. A letter was
read from Nevada V. Davis a member, who
is now in the East, engaged on the New
York Herald. It was then moved and car-
ried that five ladies viz. Mesdames E. B.
Wells, Minnie J. Snow. Phebe C. Young,
Lydia D. Alder and Eliza Bennion, prepare
themselves for the discussion next meeting.
Syntithia Dickinson suggested that another
time we discuss the subjects the same even-
ing they are given. The program for next
meeting was read as follows, Discussion on
Heredity. Indian traditions, Syntithia
Dickinson. Poem Ruth M. Fox. Reci-
tation Ellis Shipp. Sentiments from
Elizabeth Barrett Browning. Dismissed by
Minnie J. Snow. Refreshments and the
usual good time followed.
				R. M. FOX, Sec. pro tem.


MISS ANNE WHITNEY, the sculptor, has
completed a bust of Keats in marble, which
is to be placed in the parish church of
Hampstead, London, as a memorial from
the American and English lovers of the
poet. The bust is pronounced a triumph of
artistic genius.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A PLEASANT EVENING.

Editor Exponent:
	AN informal reception was tendered last
night to our visiting sisters, Aunt Zina, as
we love to call her, and Sister E. B. Wells,
at the residence of W. G. Bickley. The
genial Professor and his worthy wife went
around and invited all the officers of the
Relief Society and some others to meet
these honored ladies at his house.
	About twenty-five people came together
and the evening passed very pleasantly
with songs, music, recitations and old time
reminiscences. Professor Bickley favored
the company with instrumental music, also
a song. Mrs. C. D. White gave, in good
style, a recitation entitled, “Hannah Jane
and I.” Another song from Brother Bickley
was followed by the stirring recitation of
“The Battle of Bunker Hill" by Mrs. Mary
E. Carter. Uncle Daniel Tyler sang, “The
Mobbers of Missouri,” after which Mrs.
Mary E. Lightner gave a thrilling recital of
some of the scenes she had passed through
during the persecutions of the Saints in
Missouri. One of these incidents occured
during the destruction of the Printing
Office in Independence Mo. She and her
sister seized each an armful of manuscript
revelations and ran and hid themselves in a
cornfield with the mob close at their heels
swearing they would shoot them. The two
girls escaped, however, with their prize and
afterward the rescued Mss. were
printed in book form one of which was
presented to Sister Lightner. Sister Wells,
in her bright, entertaining manner, related
incidents of her sojourn in Chicago, during
the World’s Fair. Also gave interesting
items of the different Congresses held at
that time. The trend of all these Con-
gresses was in favor of equality of the sexes.
	Aunt Zina talked in her loving motherly
way, showing that all the benefits we had
received from our showing at the World’s
Fair, came by the blessing of God and
through our organization of the Relief
Society.
	Brother Bickley sang a comic song. Mrs
L. Jones recited a short piece entitled.
“Linger not.” All sang that matchless
hymn, “O, My Father,” and after benedic-
tion, dispersed to their homes feeling that
they had indeed enjoyed a “feast of reason
and a flow of soul.” L. J.
	Beaver, Sep. 15, 1894.


HOW IT FEELS TO BE A VOTER.

	TWO women were judges of election in
one precinct, and one in another. One
daily paper mentioned the fact and the ladies
names, and said, “they took their knitting
with them and had a real good time.” I
will mention an incident and leave you to
judge whether or not our women are going
to take the trouble to vote. A lady, “one
of our fellow-citizens,” but neither young
nor active, presented herself at the polls to
vote and was informed that it was necessary
in the case that she should produce a tax
receipt for the year 1893, before she could
vote. She said the receipt was in her hus-
band’s possession, and he was not at home.
The judges told her she could have a dupli-
cate receipt if she would go to the Court
House for it. The Court house was nearly
three miles away, but she wanted very
much to vote, so she prepared to go down,
and got on a street car, but after riding
some distance, remembered she had not the
numbers of her lots. She got off and went
home, secured them and started again, ar-
riving at the Court House she had a dupli-
cate receipt furnished her, after explanations
and some delay. She reached home just in
time to attend a W. C. T. U. meeting, of
which she is an officer, and when it was
over, she went a second time to the polls
and accomplished her purpose to vote.
	A wealthy and prominent citizen of this
community who boasted on November 7th
last, that he had voted “A great big No” to
the proposition to enfranchise the women
of Colorado, caused a few of us to rub our
eyes and wonder if we saw aright, when
he appeared with his wife and daughter at
the Republican primaries, where all stood
in line, waiting to deposit their ballots,
which they did with as much ease and satis-
faction, apparently, as did your correspond-


ent whose heart and soul have been in this
cause for twenty years or more. For the
benefit of those who may desire to know
how it feels to be a citizen after being
classed with the “silent seven,” I give my
own experience, and curiously enough I
have been assured by several other women
that theirs was much the same. As soon as
it was known beyond a doubt that the
rights and duties of citzenship were for-
ever secured to the women of our State, so
many feelings took possession of me that I
could not sleep; feelings of rejoicing, of
gratitude, of sorrow for the brave life that
had gone out a little too soon, thoughts of
what this victory meant to the cause every-
where, and its effect upon our children’s
lives and all who shall come after us, but
over and above all was a feeling of not
exultation but exaltation, something indes-
cribable, never before experienced, and
probably never to be again by me.—Wo-
man's Tribune.


[Column 1]
			EVENTIDE.
	It was in the summer gloaming,
	The soft, sweet, purple gloaming,
When the paler rays of sunset blended with the
	shadows gray,
And the fragrance of the flowers was heavy in
	the air,
And the silver threads of twilight whiten’d all
	along the way,
Till a ghost-like stillness stole over all the
	landscape fair,
		That we wandered in the garden,
		The grand, old-fashioned garden.

		Ah, ’twas in the subtle gloaming,
		The weird, entrancing gloaming,
When the shadows deepen’d darker,and the stars
	began to shine.
And one felt the heart of nature in its gentlest,
	tend’rest hour,
That we pledg’d our troth together where the
	roses intertwine;
And we reveled in the realms of fancy’s potent
	power.
		While we sauntered in the garden,
		The dear, old, homely garden,
		
		What was whispered in the gloaming,
		The dim, uncertain gloaming,
In that murmur’d undertone that falls so softly on
	the ear,
While it swept along the rose-trees like the 
	flutter of a wing,
Ling’ring down among the grasses as a presence
	ever near.
Left a charm for years to come like a precious,
	living thing;
		Aye, for years ’twas in the garden.
		The rude, neglected garden.

		Oft at even in the gloaming,
		The vague and solemn gloaming,
Have I listen’d for the echo of that whisper ’mid
	the flow’rs;
Rich and mellow were the tones, like music,
	soft and low;
And my happy heart made answer in those
	dreamy, summer hours,
As we vow’d to love each other, in that far-off,
	long ago.
		In the shadowy old garden,
		The dear, enchanted garden.

[Column 2]
		And still the purple gloaming,
		The fair, deceitful gloaming,
Comes forever with the summer, just the same at
	eventide,
With the memories, that haunt me of the
	beautiful and bright,
And the glory of the hours that will evermore
	abide
In the soul of one that waits through the dark
	and stormy night.
		For that promise in the garden,
		The dear, old fashion’d garden. 

		It is sweeter in the gloaming,
		The calm and tranquil gloaming,
To recall the happy mem’ries that around our
	hearts entwine;
While we are young and ardent, the future
	seems so bright;
We could not dream that sorrow would shatter
	love’s fair shrine,
Or that darkness, sad and dreary, could follow
	its delight.
		When we lingered in the garden,
		The balmy, fragrant garden.

		But tho’ in the summer gloaming,
		The strange, fantastic gloaming,
We only see faint shadows in a dim, unreal way
Or waken old-time echoes as from a far-off
	shore;
Yet we know to those who’re faithful there will
	dawn a roseate day,
A glorious to-morrow, that will last for ever-
	more;
		In that fair, Elysian garden,
		The first, primeval garden.
								E. B. W.


SING ME A SONG TODAY.

COME sing me a song today,
	One that you only can sing,
A sweet melodious lay,
	That once happy past to bring.
Trill forth those memories dear,
	Visions that mocked us of yore,
Seem now to linger anear,
	As in the days gone before.

O, sing me a song today,
	In tones that are sweet and soft,
One that your heart fain would say,
	The song that is heard so oft. 
Of love that is true and strong,
	That grows with the lapse of time,
Nor fades though the years are long,
	The love that is all sublime.

Come sing me a song to day,
	Of days that are yet to come,
Replete with every ray,
	That sorrow will overcome,
Oh, sing me a song, sweet song,
	To chase away this dull gloom,
'Twill shorten the hours so long,
	And all the future illume.
					HYACINTH.
July, 1, 1894.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.oo; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1894.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE poem in our Last issue entitled,
“In Loving Remembrance,” should have
been “In Loving Remembrance of Sister
Arabella Chandler Parkinson.”

	At the first election under the Equal
Suffrage held in Colorado it was demon-
strated that the lower the elements in
Society the less interest was taken in the
ballot, and vice versa.

	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Assembly Hall
in this city on Thursday, October 4th,
meetings commencing at 10 a. m. at 2 p. m.
and and half-past seven in the evening.
	The Presidents of the Relief Society of
all the several Stakes of Zion are requested
to attend or send an official representative
to report, and all officers and members are
expected to be present at the Conference.
Presiding authorities in the several Stakes
and bishops and brethren interested in the
work and advancement of the society are
cordially invited to attend the meetings.
By order of the President Zina D. H.
Young.


THE POLITICAL QUESTION. 

	THE Delegates from two great political
parties have assembled in Convention and
formulated their platforms or adopted
resolutions and have declared in favor of
equal rights irrespective of sex. This is
certainly a step in the right direction and
will be a great credit to Utah, and is indeed
an act of justice which must recommend
itself to all fair-minded people. ‘‘So far
so good,” as a party both Republicans and
Democrats have done what they could, and
it remains now for the people to elect such
delegates to the Constitutional Convention
as will carry out the principles of justice
and equality. It will ever be a matter of
congratulation if the new Constitution
shall be so near perfect that it will not re-
quire amendments during the first Legisla-
tures that will meet.
	The two platforms are before the people
and certainly both parties have been honor-
able in declaring their principles and the
people both men and women can judge for
themselves of the facts as presented in the
Resolutions adopted. They are so clear
and well-defined that one can scarcely plead
ignorance in regard to points of difference
between the two parties. All these things
are educational and certainly the women of
the Territory will take an interest in the
study of the political question, and be care-
ful to note the distinctive differences that
are so apparent when one looks into the
subject deeply.
	The great fundamental principles of
government, however, should be carefully
studied and those who anticipate having
the franchise should arm themselves well
with this knowledge and not come ignorant-
ly into possession of the boon, so ardently
desired and so eagerly sought for. There
will be many important and serious
questions to be discussed that concern wo-
men as well as men; and perhaps the first
great subject to which the attention of wo-
men will be called will be that of education,
and study beforehand will be a great ad-
vantage. In the Associations throughout
the Territory this matter should be con-
sidered, and acted upon so that correct in-
formation may be obtained. There are
some departments of public interest relating
to a great commonwealth which come
more directly in the line of woman’s
province than others. Education, public
charities and such institutions as relate
more or less there to, sanitation and public
health, moral and other great reforms, etc.

[Column 2] 
Women have thought much upon these
matters but heretofore they have had small
opportunity to use any but silent influence.
If perchance Utah comes into the union of
states with equal suffrage as now seems so
likely to transpire, (and the woman of the
Territory should certainly work on the af-
firmative) they should make every exertion
to qualify themselves to be useful and
active in the exercise of every right and
privilege with which statehood will invest
them. Meantime they should not sleep,
but be awake to the grave issues and
emergences of the time and avail them-
selves of every opportunity to exert an in-
fluence in the direction of positive good, in
the interest of all that relates to the future
welfare, and betterment of the condition of
the people, who are to be the happy posses-
sors of the greater freedom, that comes
with increased responsibility and an exten-
sion of privileges.


A REVERIE.

	AUTUMN:—Named by the poets as the
melancholy season and ever thought of as
the saddest, because the winds at night
sing their mournful songs and as they mur-
mur through the forests and the glens, they
blow the crimson and golden leaves to the
earth below them, and the song of the
autumn wind, and the rustle of the dying
leaves fill the soul with longings that no
other season brings. In the sweet gloom
of the September days the heart is full, not
so much of hope for the coming days as
memories, sweet memories of the past.
How thick and fast they crowd upon one,
the joys, the sorrows, the laughter, the
tears all intertwine into one sweet memory
chain. The rivers are clearer and more
sparkling; the mountains gleam with the
glorious tints that the early frost and the
heavy dews impart to the foliage of the
maple and the oak, mingled with the deeper
greens of the graceful pines; the great sun
casts shadows and flames through the
evening mist imparting the deepest purples
to the eastern hills, the ruddiest and brightest
golds and crimsons to the western skies and
all combined fill the soul with rapture,
poetry and love.


FLOWERS:—How few they are and yet
how beautiful as one traverses the rich and
well kept garden and notes with a sigh the
fading leaves of the rose, the carnation and
the pansy, she may also smile at the tender,
sweet elysium that has remained so true
through the long summer and still blossoms
and sends forth its fragrance with the
autumn winds; at the pretty aster with its
many colored blossoms, at the red and white
and purple berries nestling among the
glorious leaves of the honey-suckle and
wood-bine; at the stately dahlia in its rich
deep colors presiding like a queen over the
Autumn garden at the beautiful
crysanthemum, with her large lovely blos-
soms, cheering and comforting and atoning
for summer’s flowers lost.
	MUSIC:—A man once said that nature
had given less to music than any of the
arts. I wonder if he ever wandered
through a forest in the autumn time when
the leaves whispered their good-byes as
they swung and swayed through the mel-
low air in their falling to the ground; if he
ever heard the birds as they bade farewell
to their summer nests and flocking together
by the hundreds gave their glorious final
chorus before migrating to the south. If
he ever heard the soughing wind through
the leafless branches murmuring its
œolian tones. Why the world is full of
music in the autumn, nature’s world at
least, yes music, poetry and art, whose is
the soul that does not throb the quicker,
the heart that does not beat the faster, the
mind that does not think the deeper, in the
rich and glorious Autumn time.


FEMININE HINTS.

	THE house wife has been employed all
the summer long with her arduous but
satisfying labor of preparing fruit for the
winter months and now with what a
pleasure she points to her shelves filled with
bottles of fresh berries and fruits her jars of
rich preserves, her glasses of clear, delicious
jelly, perhaps though it is not yet too late
to publish a receipt for a catsup very highly
praised and pickles very sweet to taste.
	TOMATO CATSUP:—Take one bushel or
six pounds of nice ripe tomatoes, boil and
strain through a sieve. Take two quarts
of good vinegar, two ounces of allspice,
two ounces of blackpepper, two ounces of
mustard, one ounce of cloves one ounce of
cinnamon two grated nut megs, two pounds
of sugar and one pint of salt, mix all well
together and turn into the tomato juice,
let the whole boil four or five hours or un-
til it becomes thick, then pour in bottles or
jars and tightly cork.
	SWEET-PICKLE PEACHES:—Eight pounds
of fruit, four pounds of sugar one pint of
vinegar one ounce each of allspice, cloves
and cinnamon. Scald the syrup, peel the
peaches and drop in scalding syrup, boil
until soft enough to push a straw through
them, then take out and place in jar, allow
to cool when the boiling syrup is poured
over them, tie the spices in clean white bags
and boil all the time with syrup, stick three
or four cloves in each peach. Every other
day for the first week boil the syrup for
half an hour and pour back hot over the
fruit, then tie down securely with a cloth
wet in brandy over the top of the fruit.
	DRESS:—The colors though subdued
were never richer than this fall and the
bright autumn tints interwoven in a ground
of black, seal brown, dark gray, navy blue,


or some deep color give a very rich effect.
Whether the country generally is benefitted
or not the woman with a meager purse will
be delighted to know that she can buy her
a lovely winter gown for half the price she
paid last year, and her silks and woolens
will all be much cheaper. The becoming
and comfortable suit so much in vogue dur-
ing the summer still holds its own for fall
and winter wear, the round skirt the blouse
or shirt waist and the over jacket, only the
waist is made of darker and warmer
material. Probably this is due to the fancy
the feminine heart has always held for the
belt with its pretty buckles. These, the
buckles are as fashionable as ever only as
the season advances, the buckle becomes
larger and the designs are quite elaborate.
Coral and amber buckles are also mnch
worn and it is said that amber will soon re-
place the ivory, silver and porcelain for
ladies toilet articles.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		LADIES’ MEETING.
Minutes of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, Aug.
11th 1894. President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing, “Wel-
come best of all good meetings,” etc.
Prayer Sister Wilcox. Continued singing,
“For the strength of the hills” etc. Min-
utes of previous meeting read and approved.
President Horne said, “I believe it is cus-
tomary, if there is business to present, to
attend to that before proceeding with the
meeting. We desire to have our excursion
well advertised, we consider it a good and
worthy cause and think it should be well
patronized. Officers will please come for-
ward and take tickets. I have been in-
formed that there is a falling off in the num-
ber of Sisters who should be in attendance
at the Temple Saturday, this should not be,
sisters please take notice and be on hand
that there may be plenty of help. We
must work unitedly or we will be found in
the same position that the people of Babylon
were. We must be making a move toward
storing up wheat, grain will probably be
cheap this fall. We must take the warn-
ing given.”
	Sister Zina, “My dear sisters I greet all
most heartily, consider all hands shaken.
I have been absent from you for some time
but am always with you in spirit. Would
have been here sooner, but for the strike.
On arriving in Canada, found Brother
Dougall very ill. Thanks to our Heavenly
Father, through our faith and prayers in
his behalf, he has been restored to health,
the children of the Primary prayed for him,
their prayers were answered almost im-
mediately. Dominion day in Canada is al-
most the same as our fourth of July, I
heard a Senator there say, that our people
had accomplished more in three years, than
any others had in a much longer time.
The sisters meetings in Alberta and Moun-
tain View, were well attended, the saints
are filled with the spirit of the Lord, I
never attended better meetings in my life.
On one occasion my daughter said she felt
like giving the Bishop’s wife a blessing,
she spoke in tongues and gave her the very
blessing she had desired. The Young
Ladies have excellent meetings; at the
Fair a straw hat was given to my daughter
and with the exception of a little piece of
velvet, it was entirely home made; they
have made many articles of clothing; our
people held their first conference while we

[Column 2]
were there, at the last meeting of the Young
Ladies that I attended, they requested me
to address them, some of them greatly
desired to hear me speak in tongues having
never heard the gift. At the close of the
meeting I was called upon to dismiss, I
then spoke in tongues, I heard after that
girls had fasted and prayed, that I might
speak to them in tongues, their prayers
were answered, it was a testimony to them,
that the Lord does hear and answer prayers;
I am very much interested in this home in-
dustry movement; if I had means I would
send for a knitting machine and teach a
class of girls to knit. I feel the Lord is
well pleased with the labors of his hand-
maids, may the Lord add his blessing.”
	Sister Susan Grant “I am pleased to have
our stake join with you in this enterprise,
we can all see how much better it would
have been for us if we had taken the coun-
sel given years ago, but it is never to late to
mend, though late the Lord will accept of
our work. I think it would be well to
have notices sent to the Bishops, regarding
the store I don’t believe they fully under-
stand the motives of this enterprise; we
should be alive to the importance of our
work “The harvest is ripe and the reapers
are few.” We should place our whole de-
pendence on the Lord. When troubles
come we can call on Him for help, if we
are living as he desires us. Am glad to
hear of the blessing of faith being poured
out upon the saints in far off Canada, I
pray the Lord may bless all interested in
this work where ever they may be.’
	Sister Lula Greene Richards, “I am
sure all are delighted with the report of the
saints in Canada, they are filled with the
same spirit, enjoyed in the Temple here.
Brother Woodruff said the whole world
would be diffused with it, we all should try
to think of something to further the cause;
not be as the slothful servant that has to be
called. I shall, try to awaken an interest in
our Ward, we should follow the examples
of our mothers, think how they worked, if
we were as persevering we could accomplish
much more having greater facilities than
they had. I pray we may all be faithful
that we may secure our crowns.”
	Sister C. C. R. Wells, “I realize the set
time has come to favor our store. I knew
all the time the Lord had inspired the
movement, any sister that can make articles
of clothing send us samples of work, if
creditable have them in the store, take
stock by the sale of them, its only a ques-
tion of time when people will be compelled
to buy these things. Look and see what is
called for, make those articles. Some make
nice little hoods and shoes, bring them to
us, we want to prepare to help the poor,
that may come to us. We want to invite
people to come and see us, when stocked
with home-made articles, we can’t expect
to do anything without some labor, we hear
so much about hard times; if no other train
should ever come into Salt Lake, we are
still much better off than the Pioneers, they
studied, made over and thought of every
possible way to get along, let us all try and
think of something we can do to help in
the good work, etc.”
	Sister Margaret Caine, “It is impossible
for me to express my feelings of thankful-
ness and gratitude, I throughly ap-
preciate being again in the midst of friends,
I trust all my labors while absent have
not been in vain, many whom I have met
are very much interested in us, and desire
to investigate, people begin to see how use-

[Column 3]
less money is unless invested in benefiting
others; barriers are being broken down, it
is the Lord’s will that we build each other
up, my feelings have ever been in favor of
home manufactures. Always in my house-
keeping, I made it a point to use home-made
articles when able to get them. Let us ex-
port as well as import. I have disposed of
several thousand copies of the EXPONENT.
Have had the greatest compliments paid it.
One gentleman, who was a tourist and a
traveler, said he had never read a paper
where such pure thoughts and principles
were written. It has been published longer
than any othe lradies paper in the West; if
we can afford to take more than one for our-
selves, do so and send it to others. At one
time there was quite a large branch of our
Church in California, there are now only
about twenty-five or thirty members,”
made other good remarks.
	Sister Lucy B. Young was happy to hear
the remarks made by the sisters, was one
with them, said she was happy in early days
didn’t call it hard times, one would feel proud
to wear homemade all the time, the sisters
from the Sandwich Islands make beautiful
hats, it would be a good idea to get them to
take hold of the straw work”
President Horne in closing said she be-
lieved the spirit of building up home in-
stitutions was increasing. All seemed
more interested than usual, hoped they
would continue, and the Lord would bless
their efforts. Sang Doxology. Benedic-
tion Sister E. S. Taylor.
	V. YOUNG, Sec.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

	THE Republican State Convention of
Idaho adopted without a dissenting vote
the following resolutions:
	“We favor submission of an equal suffrage
amendment to the constitution, to a vote of
the people, by the next Legislature.”
	If this carries it will go to a vote of the
electors in 1896.—Ex.

SALT LAKE W. S. A.

	MINUTES of W. S. Meeting, held Tues-
day Aug. 21st, in the 14th, Ward Hall.
Third Vice President Julia Druce in the
chair. Song, “Do what is right.” Prayer
by Mary A. Freeze. Song, “Know this
that every soul is free.” Roll called,
minutes for July read and approved. Read-
ing, by Lousie Badger, entitled, “A good
conscience.” Reading by Martha Greames
entitled, “Keeping up with the children.”
President Elizabeth MacFarlane read a piece
from the Salt Lake Herald on the Constitu-
tion. C. C. R. Wells made some very in-
teresting remarks on suffrage for women.
Ruth M. Fox made a short speech on the
same subject. Mary A. Freeze thought
when the time comes for us to vote, we
shall know who to vote for, referred to
what Hon. John E. Booth said at the re
union at Saltair, that women should de-
mand their rights. Adjourned till Sep-
tember.
M. E. IRVINE, Sec.

Editor Exponent:—
	BY the request of our Local President,
Mrs. Jane Snyder, I submit a few items for
the columns of the Exponent in reference
to the grand Republican Convention held
in this city on the eleventh inst.
	The ladies of the W. S. A, were


[Column 1]
courteously granted tickets to the balcony
of the Opera House which was profusely
decorated with flowers and evergreens and
banners with appropriate mottoes adorned
the building.
	The call of the convention and other
rules and preliminaries were attentively
listened to by the visiting ladies.
	At the afternoon session many ladies
were in attendance and the Provo and
Salt Lake City Glee Clubs rendered some
very witty songs in an artistic style and the
music by the bands was very exhilarating
and like the Glee Clubs were cheered to
the encore, and when Mr. Arthur L.
Thomas read in the resolutions that Equal
Suffrage be granted to women, the ladies
enthusiastically waved their handkerchiefs
and gentlemen cheered and waved their
hats in an inspiring manner. May success
attend the cause and all others which tend
to the good of humanity.
M. A. TILL.
Provo City, Sep. 12th, 1894.

EQUAL RIGHTS.
	ONCE more this important subject pre-
sents itself before us. This question has
received great attention of late, and now
that fair Utah is just entering statehood,
let us be sure that she does not leave her
women behind.
	History tells us that in many cases, wo-
man has been regarded as inferior to man.
Why should this be? Are we not all God’s
children? We learn from the Bible that
God created woman to be a help-meet for
man; and does it look reasonable to think,
that He would create her an inferior being?
It is more likely that He would make an
improvement on His labors, rather than not
the equal. But of course, we do not claim
to be any better than they, but equally as
good. We do not wish to overstep our
bounds in the least, but desire to become
only that which God designed us to be.
We only ask for a voice in that which con-
cerns us and claim the right of political
as well as religious freedom.
	Who could call the law a just one, that
entitles one half of the community to en-
joy privileges that the other half cannot?
	We all admit that man stands at the head
and woman should not rule over him,
neither should he trample her under his
feet. In one of our American cities, a
short time ago, an address had been de-
livered one evening, by one of the well
versed women of the place one of the
listeners, a gentleman on his return home
was met by a friend who said, “Who was
your speaker to-night?” He replied in a
sneering tone, “only a woman,” while at
the same time we might ask, “what is his
mother?” and “what is his wife?” This
with many instances proves how lightly the
abilities of woman are spoken of at times.
If the franchise was restored, what true wo-
man would cast her vote in favor of a
dealer in the demon—Alcohol? In many
cases we find her tied to a drunkard, who
staggers to the Polls to vote, while she (no
matter how intelligent she may be) is com-
pelled to stay at home. Is this right? No,
there is no justice about it, for those who
are ruled by law should surely have a voice
in what the law shall be, and who shall be
the law-makers.
	If we assist in bearing the responsibilities
of the government, we certainly should
have our share of its privileges. How
much better it would be if Utah could be-

[Column 2]
come a prohibition State, then this great
waste of money could be used for the ele-
vation instead of the degradation of man-
kind. It is hoped that there will soon be a
reformation in this respect. Some women
say they have all the rights they want but
none of us should entertain such a false idea
as this, for God never designed us to spend
all our lives in the kitchen but that we
should study and become intelligent beings,
continually using our influence for the pro-
motion of our fellow-man. It is now time
that the chains of bondage were broken,
and let us ask ourselves the question; if the
victory is won, are we prepared to bear the
responsibilities that will develop upon us?
As we all know we are living in an age of
progress, and let us make a study of the
Suffrage subject for there is no "excellence
without labor." So let us prove by our
actions that we do not enjoy “taxation
without representation” and may we my
fellow suffragists not cease now the goal is
almost in sight, but may the flames of free-
dom and equality continue to burn in our
bosoms, until we gain that for which we
are now earnestly laboring—Equal Rights.
May God grant this to be our happy lot.
ALICE GUNN.
Adamsville, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PEN NAMES.

			U. W. P. C.

	IT is a most difficult thing to put this
subject into such shape as to make it pre-
sentable to a club of ladies of varied
opinions and views, and therefore perhaps
the best method is to give a few facts.
There are many newspapers and journals
where the writer of articles and even one
employed in editorial work is not allowed
to sign his name or even a nom de plume;
to give all the reasons why not, would be
to go too much into detail. 
	In Boston considered the Athens of
America, for instance, one of the most re-
presentative papers the Boston Globe has
given large liberty in that respect, while
the Boston Herald just as representative
and as widely circulated gives no encourage-
ment of this sort whatever; there is in my
opinion two sides to the question and the
utmost need of discrimination; there are in
this city even restrictions in this regard
and they seem very proper on a daily
paper—the Chief Editor is answerable when
articles are not signed, and in many cases
that is better; if one is indignant at an
article, the chief of the establishment, must
answer for it, and his very position holds
him above petty annoyances; unless in a
very aggravated case, when suit for libel
would be brought against the paper itself.
In most ordinary cases of write ups and
interviews the person would not wish his
name attached, unless it were some very
celebrated or renowned personage, then
vanity might prompt the signing of one’s
name. In politics it would be sometimes
very indiscreet, not to say unpopular to
sign one’s name, and in the case of verses,
it would very often be wiser not to subject
one’s self to the unfavorable criticisms that
are frequently indulged in by the writing
fraternity, of each others effusions. For-
merly I was greatly in favor of pen names
but experience has led me to think of late
years, that one’s own name is better. And
my advice to all young writers is, use your
own name or at least your initials instead of

[column 2]
something fictitious, and yet even in this
matter there might be some exceptions
made. A very able man and one of many
years journalistic experience says, that the
idea that a writer is profited in his own
community by asing a nom de plume, and
that in order to gain reputation a pen name
must be used until the people demand the
real name of the author is on the decline.
“And he adds the actual real signature to
every production has its significance and
carries with it unquestioned worth, with-
out any exception whatever.” Had I time
I could give many facts to substantiate these
ideas.
	Speaking however, more particularly of
what we in our Utah Woman’s Press Club
want to know, perhaps one should give a
few actual names and the pen name. It
may be that was what was intended, it is
so long ago since the program committee
assigned this matter to one of our younger
members who never responded, that the
real idea is lost, and I was absent when the
subject was allotted to me, so if I fall short
of the demand I beg to be excused—but
will give you an item or two about women
who have gained fame and renown by using
the names of men;—but the idea probably
originated in the fact, that women as wri-
ters were looked down upon, called blue
stockings and considered almost unfeminine,
at any rate not fit for wives or mothers, and
often thought or considered immoral. That
excuse is not valid now.
	Ever since George Sand made herself so
celebrated by using a man’s name it seems
to have been a fad by many others, inferior
in point of ability, although George Eliott
surpassed her certainly in depth of senti-
ment and philosophy, it has often been said
that these two famous writers would never
have reached the zemith of fame attained
by them, had they not taken a man’s name.
	We in this era of woman would scarcely
be more willing to hazard a literary reputa-
tion on the name of a man, than that of a
woman, though we might perhaps use a
fictitious signature for reasons.
	Olive Schreiner whose story of an Afri-
can Farm created quite a sensation among
literary people, used a man’s name Ralph
Iron, but now that she is married her hus-
band it is said takes her real name instead
of her taking his, though recently I saw
both names used. Marie Correlli whose
books are the fashion now-a-days in many
circles, because they break new ground
and treat of the unseen,or pyschological sub-
jects mostly, or the occult, uses a name
which suggests a French or Italian woman
although she is said to be Irish and a sister
of the famous Irish writer Eric MacKaye.
Mme. Higgins Glenerne whose real name is
Lida Lewis Watson, she writes for the
Boston Globe and New York Mercury, has
published a volume of poems of which the
title is ‘'UNREST.’’ Aunt Fanny who writes
books for children is Mrs. Frances Eliza-
beth (Mease) Barrow, she also wrote for
the New York Ledger, Mrs. Mary Cahill
who uses the nom de plume of Marie
Walsh is author of Hazel Kirke and other
similar tales. Drock pseudonym of Robert
Bridges, assistant editor of Book Reviews
in “Life” and Scribner Magazines.
	We all remember the inspiring genius of
Fanny Fern, the sister of N. P. Willis the
poet, who had such a wonderful literary
reputation, and a most romantic life. She
kept the secret of her real name many
years, until she had earned a competency
by means of her pen.


Mary J. Holmes on the contrary has
always used her real name, and has also
earned money, and is a favorite story teller.
	George Eliott had the satisfaction (if
such it be) of having her work favorably
commented upon by the great men of the
day, as the work of a man of brains and
of uncommon talent, as well as sublime
reasoning in untrodden ways,
	Grace Greenwood (Mrs. Lippincott) is a
familiar nom de plume to us and also 
Marian Harland, (Mrs. E. R. Terhune)
but some others we read of and do not
know what the real name may be, or indeed
if the name is a real or imaginary one;
coming home to our own Utah—we have
several writers who are much better known
by the pen name than by their own, Ruby
Lamont, Millicent, Hope, Homespun,
Hyacinth and a long list for a new country.
These are all women, but we also have
men who use a nom de plnme.
	When in San Francisco as a Delegate to
the Convention of the National Editorial
Association, I heard some discussion upon
this subject, both in reference to poets and
newspaper people. One lady who is em-
ployed a reporter on a Chicago paper whose
editor did not permit those employed by
the office to use signatures, stated that hav-
ing strong perferences in favor of using her
own name, and being desirous of building
up a reputation as a writer of some merit,
she persisted in signing her name to all her
articles, which for many months was as
persistently left out, though nothing was
said; finally the chief editor being absent
for some time, the signature attached was
used without comment, when the editor re-
turned she fully expected according to her
own account to get the “grand bounce”
but on the contrary nothing was said and
her name was allowed to appear.
	One other case was of Elizabeth Akers
Allen (whose daughter related the story to
me,) and who is famous all the world over
for her beautiful poems, and especially for
the one song sung in our own and other
lands, “Rock me to sleep mother,” when
a young girl she used the nom de plume,
Florence Percy and other signatures and
afterwards when she tried to collect her
poems for publication she found great diffi-
culty in securing them and some she never
succeeded in getting, consequently she ad-
vises all young writers to use the real name;
and, now let us come down to the reality of
our own club here at home, and be what
we are in and of ourselves, original as far
as possible, without affectation and without
imitation except in so far as we must con-
form to certain rules and observances, but
not be afraid of re-writing and polishing,
or fear that it will kill the spirit, for the
same rule will assurredly apply in writing
as the inspired prophet of old declared,
when He said the spirit of the prophets, is
subject to the prophets—and the world of
 mankind agree that poets are inspired, and
it matters not whether the poet be a man or
a woman—for we know of old, women were
inspired to lead, to sing, to judge, instance
the song of Deborah etc, and we have had
in our time, our inspired poet and prophet-
ess, and leader in modern Israel, Eliza R.
Snow whose name and fame are immortal-
ized.					E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN Japan there is but one lady lawyer,
—Madame Tel-Sino. In England, as far
as we know, there are none. In this
country there are about one hundred.—Ex.


THE HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIC
			ASSOCIATION.

MRS. AGUSTUS HEMENWAY HON. PRES.
	THE Home Department will have merit
of an unusual kind and must be judged by
other than a merely exhibitional standard.
	It will be in the main a study of Domes-
tic Science and of Household Econony,
both of which are of great importance to
the National welfare.
	I have visited as a careful observer among
the industrial classes, in cities, towns and
manufacturing villages, and have studied
the conditions, tendencies, dangers, and
opportunities of these classes and the duty
towards them of the educated and the
wealthy, who have combined with me to
show during the days of October, work full
of testimony as well as theory, in the
Home Department of the Worlds Food
Fair 1894.
	The work will prove that these ladies are
more than mere observors, having drawn
large inferences, they will offer through the
best of engaged talent, remedial agencies
and appliances, to meet the real conditions
of house and society, elevating the tone of
both private and public life.
	The wide prevalence of haphazard
methods, and the general ignorance in re-
gard to proper ways of cooking and com-
bining articles of food to get the best as-
similation, is alarming, and jeopardizing
the fundamental interests of the State, and
the best development of the whole race,
unless a higher intelligence and more
rational methods are diffused.
	The formation of the Home Department
in connection with the World’s Food Fair
gives a wonderful opportunity for the
presentation of scientific facts in aid to
others less enlightened, to direct and help
them into more rational ways of living and
thinking. This work is made possible by
the allotment of space and the generous
financial support of the Board of Manag-
ment of the Fair, who will thus help to
spread a constant intellectual feast for all
who are interested in these vital subjects,
and who is not at least three times a day?
	We can only mention specimens of the
feature of the work. It will cover con-
densedly a large and varied field, dealing
with Home topics in the true spirit of high
moral aim united to sober study of facts.
Aiming to be lucid and simple, the work
of the department cannot fail to do good
service in at least stimulating suggestive
thought.
	A condition of pleasantness in the house
is a real power in refining and raising the
character of the inmates. Ugliness and
discomfort blunts the sensibilities, low-
ers the spirits, destroys and vitiates the
appetites.
	One suite of rooms will be under the
auspices of the Household Economic Ass.
of which Mrs. Augustus Hemenway is
Honorary President, and Mrs. Minerva B.
Tobey, Acting President, she being also
Vice President of the National Association
for Massachusetts. These rooms well il-
lustrate a Sanitary Bedroom and Bathroom.
	Our present sanitary ideas are reforming
the fittings and care of the sleeping apart-
ments, and the dealers keep pace with the
demands of the scientiest, from whisk
brooms, soaps and powders to sanitary floor
finish and furnishings. These subjects
will be presented and discussed by Mrs.
Tobey, in the lecture room.

[Column 2]
	The best authorities will likewise discuss
and give illustrations of hygienic, economic,
and vegetarian meals in a room set apart
for Hygienic and Economic features. The
table of costs and restrictive  values being
presented at the same time to show that
the grocer is not a secondary factor to the
butcher in furnishing table supplies.
	Mrs Susanna W. Dodds M. D. and Dean
of the Hygienic College of St. Louis will
visit Boston during the month to take an
active interest in this department. She
will add greatly to the value of the
Hygienic Feature.
	The Library will contain works on
architecture in its relation to Sanitation,
Cook Books, Health and Hygienic Litera-
ture, as well as current magazines bearing
upon the Home questions, such as the New
England Kitchen Magazine, Household
News, Table Talk, Food, Home, and
Garden, and others.
	A few days and evenings will have
national names, and be observed accordingly,
distinguished guests of those countries be-
ing present.
	The lecture room in the midst of the
latest conveniences for the scientific and
easy preparations of foods will after all be
the attractive spot for many, there some of
the best talent will daily demonstrate and
lecture upon cooking from 10-30 to 12 a. m.
	Mr. Nankanura will deliver a short lec-
ture in the lecture room which will be
beautifully illustrated by choicely colored
lantern slides. On this occasion he will
show us the interiors of their homes,
especially the culinary and feasting rooms,
interspersed among views of their gardens,
etc. A reception will be given to the
representatives of Japan visiting us. Miss
Shidsu Mori now attending Radcliffe Col-
lege will be among the honored guests.
	Lovers of beautiful things may find
most beautiful Russian Cottage Industries
goods for their home tables, examples of
the weavers skill, so delicate that even
fairy spinners might envy the gossamer
texture.
	These Industries were founded by
Princess M. Schahovskoy and her friend
Mme Pogosky. These ladies are at present
travelling through Russia collecting but
will return bringing with them many
articles for October and the exhibition.
Mme Pogosky’s daughter will assist in her
native costume, her head bound with a
scarlet fillet, hair tightly braided in a single
plait, and her neck encircled with string
after string of multicolored beads.
	Mme Eugenie Lineff, Musical Director of
the Imperial Opera in Moscow, will be
present also on the day when Russian Home
Costumes are shown.
	Princess M. Schahovskoy and Mme
Pogosky were associate judges with me at
the World’s Fair on the jury of experts.
A reception will be given these ladies, and
to specially invited guests. Russian Tea
will be served after which the audience
will be entertained in the lecture room by
Mme Lineff assisted by the Russian Choir,
giving some of the most characteristic
Russian music, followed by tableaux or
living pictures in the Russian costumes
and customs. Other nations will through
distinguished representatives make in-
structive and pleasant special days.
	A few evenings will be given to
Stereoptican lectures, illustrating sanitary
facts. We are to have a lecture by Mrs.
Tobey showing the plans of Mrs. Stuckarts
forty-four co-operative homes now building


in Hyde Park, Chicago. A large force of
earnest workers are busily engaged, as they 
have been for months to prepare this con-
tinuous treat to the public in connection
with the many attractions of the different
exhibitors. The work is most ably sus-
tained by the Honorary Board and will be
skillfully helped along by the lectures and
others on its corps of workers.
	The names are of well assured reputation,
and exact knowledge. Among them are
Mrs. D. A. Lincoln of Boston Cook Book
fame. Miss Anna Barrows, Prin. of the
school of Domestic Science for the Y. W.
C. A. Miss Carrie Dearborn,late Principal
and now Instructor in Physiology in the
Boston Cooking School. Miss M. A.
Boland of John Hopkins University and
Author of Invalid Cookery. Mrs. Minerva
B. Tobey on Home Sanitation, and Susan
W. Dodds on Hygiene.
	Mrs. Carrie M. Dearborn will be in charge
of the Artistic display of cooked foods.
	Miss Elizabeth B. Sheldon, a graduate of
our Art Museum, daughter of Judge Shel-
don of New Haven Connecticut, will be
the decorater of the rooms. Her work at
the World's Fair was beautiful and very
much remarked.
	Miss Lucy Page Stelle will be in charge
of the Library.
	Helena M. Richardson, Secretary of the
Department.
	Address—Washington Ave,
		Winthrop, Mass. 
				ELLEN A. RICHARDSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FROM THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL.
	THE most insistent claim made in defense of the
present political subjection of women by the
rulers who wish this subjection to be perpetuated
is that all the interests of women are fully pro-
tected under masculine rule. A recent decision
of the Supreme Court of Iowa strikingly illus-
trates the absurdity of such a pretense. A
married woman of Manson, Ia., Mrs. Hall, hav-
ing fallen into a water main (carelessly left open
by municipal employees), and having, thereby,
sustained serious injuries, which incapacitated
her for work, sued the town for damages, and
received a verdict in her favor from the hurty,
awarding her $3,000. The town authorities ap-
pealed from the District Court’s decision, and
their appeal was sustained by the judge of the
Supreme Court on the following assumption: A
married woman being a "mere housewife" for her
husband, and he being bound for her support,
her earnings belong to him, and any loss of time
occasioned by the wife’s injury is solely his loss;
therefore, the husband only can recover damages,
and the wife’s claim is not valid, as the time lost
is not her time! Mrs. Ellen B. Dietrick, in the
Twentieth Cnntury, says:

	This remarkable decision (rendered in June of
the present year) places the wife in that Asiatic
category which speaks of a man’s wife, and his
ox, and his ass, or anything which is his. It deals
with the wife as a chattel, not even possessing the
measure of individuality conceded to the average
modern man-servant or maid-servant. It de-
grades housekeeping below the level of all self-
supporting occupations, for the "mere housewife"
is not credited with earnings even her own sup-
port! It reeks of the ignorance of the days of
barbaric despotism, when parents sold their boys
for one purpose and their girls for another; or, of
the days of savagery, when captives became their
captor’s property, male captives being broken to
one form of yoke, female captives to another.
Behold how far the rights of woman have traveled
in the year of our Lord, 1894, in a land which
wishes to be considered as Christian!


PARTING.

BY COVENTRY PATMORE.

IF thou dost bid thy friend farewell,
But for one night though that farewell may be,
Press thou his hand in thine,
How canst thou tell how far from thee
Fate or caprice may lead his steps ere that to-
	morrow comes?
Men have been known to lightly turn the corners
	of a street,
And days have grown to months, and months to
	lagging years
Ere they have looked in loving eyes again.
Parting, at best, is underlaid
With tears and pain.
Therefore, lest sudden death should come be-
	tween,
Or time or distance, clasp with pressure firm
The hand of him who goeth forth.
Unseen, Fate goeth, too.
Yet find thou always time to say some earnest
	word
Between the idle talk,
Lest with thee henceforth
Night and day, regret should walk. 
SELECTED.


ROSA BONHEUR is no longer the only
woman artist who is entitled to wear upon
her breast the Cross of the Legion of Honor,
for a like distinction has just been bestowed
upon Mme Virginia Demont Breton, the
daughter of Jules Breton and the wife of
Adrien Demont, both of them masters of
the brush. Mme. Demont-Breton has for
the last dozen years been a successful ex-
hibitor, in the Paris Salon, of marine
pictures. “She is a little bit of a woman,
quite disproportionate in size to the big can-
vasses on which she works.”


Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
Will commence her next class
in Obstetrics and Nursing
on Wednesday, Oct. 10.
ADDRESS, 34 EAST FIFTH SOUTH.	TELEPHONE 383

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House,

R. K. THOMAS

SALT LAKE SCHOOL OF
OBSTETRICS.

	THE winter term of this school will com-
mence Oct. 9th, 1894, and will continue
for twenty weeks. The instruction will
embrace a thorough cause in Midwifery and
nursing in which the student will be pre-
pared for practical work Tuition ten dollars
the necessary book six dollars.
	Address Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp, 34 S. 7th,
East Street, for any information desired.

SPECIAL EXCURSION RATES,
VIA
THE UNION PACIFIC,
To Salt Lake City, for the Ter-
r orial Fair and S xty-fifth
Semi-Annual Conference, Oc
tober 2nd to 7th.

	For above occasions the UNION
PACIFIC will sell Excursion Tickets
at the following rates, to Salt Lake City
and return:

[Column 1]
From.			Rate.
WYOMING.
Laramie,			$23.75
Medicine Bow,	20.15
Carbon,			19 60
Rawilns,			15.50
Rock Springs,		9.75
Green River,		8.95
Granger,			7.75
Carter,			6.60
Hilliard,			5.05
Evanston,		4.60
Almy,			4.50
UTAH.
Wahsatch,		4.10
Castle Rock,		3.75

Park City,		2.50
Wanship,			2.50
Coalville,		2 50
Echo,			2.50
Weber,			2.25
Peterson,			1.75
Uintah			1.50

Ogden,			1.50
Hooper,			1 20
Syracuse Junction	1.10
Layton,			.90
Kaysville,		.80
Farmington,		.60
Lake Shore,		.[-]0
Centreville,		.3[-]
Woods Cross,		.25

Terminus,		1.50
Tooele,			1.20
Erds,			1.10
Hallway House,	.95
Lake Point,		.80
Garfield,			.7[-]
Saltair Junction,	.60
Chambers,		.50
Jordan,			.3[-]

WYOMING.
Opal,			9.60
Fossil,			9 60
Ham’s Fork,		9.60
Cokeville,		9.60
IDAHO.
Montpelier,		9 60
Soda Springs,		8.05
Bancroft,			7.25
American Falls,	8.00
Minidoka,		8.[-]0
Kimama,			10 80
Shoshone,		12.40

Beaver Canyon,	12 90
Dry Creek,		12.05

[Column 2]
From.			Rate.
IDAHO.
Market Lake,		10.3[-]
Idaho Falls,		9.50
Blackfoot,		8.20
Pocatello,		[-].00
McCammon,		5 7[-]
Oxford,			4.2[-]
Garner,			4.2[-]
Card,			4.25
Cannon,Ter.Line,	4.[-]0
Preston, Idaho,	4.2[-]
Franklin, “		4.2[-]
UTAH
Richmond,		4.25
Smithfield,		4.10
Logan,			3.[-]0
Mendon,			3.55
Cache Junction,	3.2[-]
Calvin,			3 0[-]
Collinston,		2.75
Dewey,			2.50
Honeyville,		2.2[-]
Brigham,			2 [-]0
Willard,			1.75
Hot Springs,		1.5[-]
Harrisville,		1.50

Frisco,			7 50
Milford,			6.50
Smith’s Ranch,	6.25
Black Rock,		6.[-]0
Oasis,			4.7[-]
Lemmington,		4.00
Juab,			3.25
Nephi,			3.[-]0
Mona,			2 5[-]
Santiquin,		2.[-]5
Payson,			2.35
Benjamin,		2.25
Spanish Fork,		2 25
Springville,		2 1[-]
Provo,			1.9[-]
Lake View,		1.70
Pleasant Grove,	1 50
American Fork,	1 3[-]
Lehi,			1.25
Lehi Junction,		1 2[-]
Draper,			.70
Sandy,			.[-]0
Junct on,			.85
Lovendahl’s,		.30
Germania,		.2[-]
Francklyn,		.25

Eureka,			3.25
Ironton,			3.25
Silver City,		3.25
Mammoth,		3.25
D[-]remus,		3 00
Rush Valley,		2.[-]0
Fairfield,			2.2[-]
Cedar Fort,		1.95

	SELLING DATES—From all points,
October 2nd to 7th inclusive, good for
return until October 15th
D. E BURLEY,
Gen’l. Agent Passenger Dept.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
WILL OPEN HER
School in Obstetrics and Nursing,
MONDAY, OCTOBER 8th, 1894.
FOR PARTICULARS, COMMUNICATE IN PERSON OR BY LETTER.
Zo. 18 Main St, -  Salt Lake City

Woman’s Co-operative Inst’n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But’
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE [---]
Opp. G[--]nt B[---]. S[-]able


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
