Vol. 23.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1894.	No. 11.


CONTENTS:
	Cactus Papers, No, I.—Cactus. Sketch of the
Work of the U. W. P. Club—Lydia D. Alder.
Economy—M. M. Chaucer—Gladys Wood-
mansee. S. L. Co. Convention—Mary E. Irvine.
R. S. and P. A. Reports. Woman Suffrage
Column. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL:—The Congress of Representative
Women. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—I Come—Geranium. Woman’s Free-
dom—W.G. Bickley.


I COME.

TO HYACINTH.
For The Woman’s Exponent:—

I COME, Dear Heart, at thy behest:
	Thou wert so long in saying, "Come!”
I queried if thy soul found rest,
	Or if thy lips were sealed and dumb.
		Oh! joyous, blissful day,
		Like morn in rosy May,
		Which gives thee power  to say,
		“Return, and with me stay!’’ 

	I bring thee back the love and hope,
	Which thrilled our hearts in by-gone hours;
No more mid lonely shadows grope,
	We’ll stroll again through radiant bow’rs
		Thy true hand clasped in mine,
		While beauteous wreaths we twine,
		Of leaf and flow’r and vine,
		Where golden sunbeams shine.

Now that we understand once more,
	The longings which our hearts enfold,
Fair Peace her gladness shall restore,
	With Love’s sweet whispers, as of old.
		I’ll lead thee by pure streams,
		Where light celestial gleams;
		I’m what my presence seems
		The Spirit of thy dreams.
							GERANIUM.


Nov. 3, 1894.


[Column 1]
CACTUS PAPERS NO. 1.

UNBIDDEN THOUGHTS.

[A Chapter of I's and Me's.]
	I BELIEVE I have always been a wo-
man suffragist; but the strange past of it is,
I have never known it, but have remained
in a state of quiescent neutrality for—but I
will not mention how long. I might have
remained in this uninteresting condition for
another interminable lapse of time, had it
not been for a Circumstance, the result of
which has been, that those long hours of
sleeplessness, due to semi-invalidism, which
have hitherto been devoted to the concoc-
tion of impossible romances for the delec-
tation of a long-suffering public, have now
been turned into a new, and I trust, more
laudable channel. I have been led to re-
flect upon the condition of my sex, the

[Column 2]
causes of her troubles, and the best means
of alleviating them.
	But let us retrospect. Why have I so
long remained in ignorance of my true
sentiments, and what has transpired to
arouse me from my lethargy. These are
questions: and a question, says the author
of the above mentioned circumstance is a
proposition having two or more sides to be
considered. The above questions have two
sides, the sudorific and the active.
	In viewing the first, please bear it in
mind that I have never felt myself to be
downtrodden. In the family of which I
am a representative, the female members
have enjoyed as great, if not greater ad-
vantages of education than the males. I 
was never debarred from performing any
act which I considered proper, provided it
came within the limits of possibility. I
have had offices heaped upon me until I
have been sick of the very name of office,
I have engaged in various occupations, open
alike to men and women, and have been
treated well and paid liberally. In my
domestic relations I have enjoyed the ut-
most freedom; nor have I heard any com-
plaint from the other side of the house of
being “hen-pecked.” Above all, it has
been a part of my education, nay, almost
of my religion, from babyhood, to believe
implicitly in the justice, equity, and
liberality of the men of Utah, in their
views relating to my sex. I did not trouble
myself about suffrage, because I felt sure
when the time came that our fathers, hus-
bands, and brothers could exercise that
freedom which is theirs, (and ours) by
divine right, we should stand side by side
with them, not under protest, but as a mat-
ter of course.
	Imagine then, my surprise and conster-
nation when confronted by a flat contra-
diction of all my preconceived notions, in
the form of a learned discourse from a
favorite speaker and esteemed acquaintance,
as he ably set forth the ins and outs of
Constitutions and Constitution—making,
and devoted the last half-hour to a fierce
attack on the evils of woman’s suffrage.
	How wert thou fallen, then, my Utah
heroes! Great and mighty the collapse of
my airy castle; for if there be one tinctured
with the leaven of prejudice, may there
not be tens, nay hundreds, who incline
likewise. Farewell, my ideal Utonian!
like most creatures of the imagination,
doomed to fall to the level of mortality. 
Thou too art now tainted with the odor of
the earth—earthy, and as such must be
dealt with.
	As I listened in open-eyed, almost open-
mouthed astonishment to the revelations
of our learned friend, something stirred
within my heart and brain, something
hitherto dormant; and almost before I was
aware, and true to the reputation of my
sex, I leaped to a conclusion without wait-
ing to examine the reason. I was a wo-
man suffragist before I left the lecture-hall;
I am one still, and the more I reflect upon
it, the stronger grow my convictions.
	So much for cause and effect. Now for
the Circumstance itself.

[Column 3]
	In regard to the exposition of the social
condition of the Eastern States, I have
nothing to say. The gentleman has lived
among the people, and made a
study of the question, so ought
to know whereof he speaks. But his con-
clusions as to the cause of this deplorable
state of affairs, which may be summed up
in the grand finale:
	“Woman suffrage is the wedge which is
rending asunder, disrupting the very founda-
tion of the social fabric,” uttered with a
force and fervor indicative of personal con-
viction, I certainly believe to be erroneous.
	Who ever heard of a revolution which
did not cause a rending apart and disrup-
tion of time-honored customs and opinions?
But for this reason shall there be no more
revolts against cruelty and oppression?
And where in the annals of history can we
find another instance of a revolution world-
wide in its proportions and in its effects.
Without doubt the immediate result is
strife, envy, and contention; but who will
deny that the final outcome will be peace
and prosperity? Only he whose vision is
beclouded with the mists of prejudice and
tradition.
	The war has begun; the fiat gone forth,
and any effort of man to stem the progress
of woman’s emancipation will be equal to
the task of changing the course of a mighty
river. Our opposers have arrayed them-
selves on the losing side, a side that will
reflect no honor upon its adherents. Min-
insters may preach, lawyers may reason,
but the great march of enlightenment will
go on, regardless of their efforts. Women
may cry: “Fie! we have all the rights we
want or need.” Let them revel in their
small sphere. Their children and chil-
drens children will enjoy the fruits of 
emancipation just the same, and while they 
look back with pity or horror on the con-
dition of their grandmothers, they will rise
up and call blessed the memory of those
brave pioneers of equal rights, who dared in
the face of public opinion, to raise the
standard of liberty before a benighted
world.
	“But why,” queried a gentleman to 
whom I expressed these opinions, “why
are you so sure of these things? There are
two sides to a question, you know.”
	For reply, I asked  him to accompany me
back to the Garden of Eden. “There,” he
exclaimed, “like every other woman, you
are going to mix up church and state,
politics and religion.”
	“And what of that?” I retorted, “In
my mind they are inseparable. The only
pure form of government on the earth you
know to be founded upon the purest and
most divine religious principles.”
“He that hath an ear let him hear”
	The most skeptical anti-suffragist will
hardly deny that originally man and wo-
man were created equal; that through dis-
obedience to a divine mandate, they both
fell from their high estate: that a curse was
pronounced upon both, which could only
be removed by obedience to certain laws
given them for that purpose.


[Column 1]
	History reveals how signally man has
failed in keeping his part of the covenant,
except at long intervals when for a brief
season, the pure religion of Christ has held
sway upon the earth. It also shows how
that the stronger vessel has demanded of
the weaker, to the uttermost farthing, the
payment of the penalty passed upon her
for her transgression. “Thy desire shall
be to thy husband, and he shall rule over
thee.” For near six thousand years, the
sighs and prayers and heart-yearnings of
His daughters, for something better, have
ascended to the throne of a just and merci-
ful Parent. Doubt not but His ears have
heard, and His heart responded to their
cries. 
	This is an age of marvelous happenings.
It is an age of preparation for something 
better than the world has ever known. It
fore-shadows a time when the trammels of
sin are to be broken, and the results of dis-
obedience done away; when man and wo-
man, by fulfilling a certain law, can be
restored to their pristine glory and exal-
tation.
	Therefore I contend that the movement 
for Woman’s Suffrage presages her release
from the curse placed upon her in Eden;
that it is a sign of the times, as well as is
the restoration of the Gospel, and that to
fight against it, is to array ourselves in op-
position to the purposes of the Almighty.
	The cry is raised against woman enter-
ing the ranks of wage-earners, because she
consents to work at cheaper rates than men
can afford to do who have families depend-
ing upon them. This may be true, but can
any just mind condemn the poor worm from
rebelling, when driven to the last extremity,
and turning to account the very means
which have been used to hold her down, to
further the end of her emancipation. Hun-
dreds of women have been made earnest
equal suffragists for this reason alone, that
they have been expected to do the same
amount of work as a man in as creditable a
manner, and for half the remuneration.
Think not however, that this will be a last-
ing condition. Once installed on a sure
foundation, and woman will demand as high
a price for her labors as any man. The
question of preference will then be one of
capability and integrity, as it should be,
and not of dollars and cents.
	The old plea that the ballot for women
will admit so many immoral women to
power is indeed becoming monotonous.
Let the four times eighty thousand 
prostitute makers of New York City purify
themselves, body and soul and where
would be your eighty thousand prostitutes?
Immorality would die a natural death, and
brothel keepers sink in the ruins of bank-
ruptry.
	Show me the woman, born of virtuous
parentage, who would lead the life of a
prostitute from choice, and you will show
me an anomaly in nature. Where is the
most degraded among them who would not
gladly reform to become the honorable wife
of a reformed and honorable man?
	Ah, my friends, it is social vice and
degradation, not woman’s suffrage, which
has undermined the social structure. It
has befouled the stream and polluted the
fountain of life until it is an eyesore to the
vision and a stench in the nostrils of the
pure in heart. Let the rotten fabric be
rent asunder! let Babylon fall! let fire from
heaven devour its ruins! And from its
ashes, let there arise, like the far-famed
Phoenix of old, a structure “pure as the

[Column 2]
sun, fair as the moon, and terrible as an
army with banners,” to the evil doer of
the future.
	And, if need be, let Woman’s Suffrage
be the wedge which hastens this process of
purification; and let the banner of woman
be foremost in the ranks of those who are
fighting for the annihilation of bigotry and
prejudice and the ushering in of the pure
light of the millenium.
	CACTUS.
	(Read before the St. George Woman’s
Suffrage Association, Nov. 5th, 1894.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SKETCH OF THE WORK OF THE
			U. W. P. CLUB.

		[For the fiscal year 1893---94.]
	THE first meeting, with the new officers,
who were elected Oct. 31st, 1893, was held
Nov. 29th, 1893, at the apartments of the
President Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
	The subject of the hour “Thanksgiving"
was discussed. An interesting paper en-
titled, “New England Thanksgiving” was
read by the author the retiring President
E. B. Wells, who was elected Honorary
President. Also a paper by Mrs. Lillie T.
Freeze, on the “Influence of Thanksgiving
on the spiritual being, was read by the
Secretary, both contained many ideas and
different thoughts on the subject. Mrs. M.
A. Y. Greenhalgh, one of the Vice Presi-
dents at Large, addressed the Club, stat-
ing the manner of observing Thanksgiving
in Old England. Gave the origin of the
custom in that country, which dated back
to the Druids.
	The subject of Psychology was taken
up during the Spring. Able lectures were
delivered by Dr. Ferguson, Eliza Bennion,
and Gladys Woodmansee. The subject
was pretty thoroughly discussed, much
thought being given to it. All seemed to
understand it better than before.
	In the May Meeting Dr. R. B. Pratt,
read a paper on Theosophy.
	At the June Meeting, an interesting
paper on “Woman’s Clubs,’’ was read by
Mrs. Dickinson. After which President
E. B. Wells, moved that we turn the
meeting, into an informal reception, to
the Countess Wachtmeister, who was
present, accompanied by Mrs. Egbert
Roberts.
	The Countess is a disciple of “Theosophy,’’
and an intimate friend of Mme. Blavatsky,
whose death and fame in this science was
announced in the papers some time ago.
	Being invited to speak, the Countess
said, Theosophy is a great brotherhood, all
religions contain some of its principles.
It has no real organization, and no one is
required to give up his religion, who join
this brotherhood, for all religions have
some truth in them. The Countess desired
the ladies to ask questions. Several of the
ladies availed themselves of this privilege,
the questions being many and varied, which
the Countess answered in a kind and
courteous manner, giving her views, and
such information as she possessed. In this
way a pretty fair understanding was gained
of this subject, but little known in the
West, though so old in the East.
	The Countess was easy and gracious in
her address, and has the power and
eloquence of language at her command.
This interesting evening will long be
remembered by the Club.
	The National Woman’s Press Club, was

[Column 2]
entertained by our Club on its returnfrom the
Pacific Coast. President Wells and Shipp,
with a number of the members, met the
ladies at the Depot, and inviting them into
the drag “Utah,” accompanied them in a
drive over the principal parts of the City.
These ladies were otherwise entertained by
the Club.
	These visitors made honorable mention
of the kindnesses received in Utah, after
their return to the East.
	Aug. 31st, Dr. E. R. Shipp, read an able
paper on Heredity. Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson,
followed with an interesting lecture on the
same subject; many deep thoughts and
earnest reflections have been awakened, al-
so some discussion has been indulged in,
on the subjects which have been so
thoughtfully presented to the club.
	Many original poems have been read, al-
so many selected gems of both prose and
poetry.
	Some beautiful recitations have been
given by C. Louise Boyden and others.
	Sentiments from the Poets, both men and
women, have been quoted, also some from
the book of Psalms. Last but not least,
we have had rare music rendered, both
vocal and instrumental, by some of the
members.
	President E. R. Shipp, and E. B. Wells,
have won all hearts by their courteous lov-
ing manner, and now at the close of the
year, we feel that we have indeed been
benefitted, by the organization, and desire
its success in all future years, and that it
may ever be composed of thoughtful
earnest workers.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


ECONOMY.
	ECONOMY in the home is the first step-
ping stone to wealth, happiness and success
in life. It is the doctrine of proportion
brought into practice; children are very
sensitive, they notice how mother does and
if they see her making the best use of
everything they will form habits of saving
which will be a benefit to them in their
future lives. To the poor, economy is in-
dispensable.
	Economy in the husband’s affairs is a
great help to the wife as they should both
try to live according to their income. *	*
Tea coffee and spices are unnecessary
articles and are injurious to health, as well
as a great expense. We should try to live
honestly within our own means. Mothers
should teach their children to be economical
in dress, as they themselves should be;
endless yards of ribbon and lace does not
teach economy but expense. We should
elevate their tender minds with noble
thoughts and good desires. They should
also be taught order in the house as
another attribute leading to economy, we
should have a place for everything and
everything in its place, as economy is far-
seeing contingencies and providing against
them; a word on bread as it is the staff of
life, and without it we would consider our
living very poor; pieces left on the table
after meals, also bread left from one bak-
ing to another should be browned in the
oven a delicate brown, put in a clean sack
and hung in the pantry, this furnishes nice
browned bread for milk toast, or tomato or
other kinds of soup, there are many things
that would be a saving,and a blessing to us,
and no person should despise economy; we


should cut buttons from old clothing, pick
up a pin and put it in a handy place when
needed, we should strive to economise our
time so we can have an hour or two to study
those things which will benefit us as moth-
ers; we should never buy what we do
not want, for if we buy what we do not
want, we will soon want what we cannot
buy. A penny is a small matter, yet the
comfort of thousands of families depends
on the saving and wise spending of them.
							M. M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S FREEDOM.

	WE'LL move the glorious cause along,
We’ll shout a glad hosannah;
And aye, the burden of our song
Shall be the ladies’ banner. 
The march of progress shall be sure,
And soon the joy bells ringing,
Shall usher in the bright glad dawn
To woman freedom bringing.
		CHORUS:
	Then shout and sing, make the
welkin ring
Let all repeat the Chorus,
We’ll onward move in the cause we love,
With freedom’s banner o’er us.
	As ages come in the course of time 
We’ll strive to do our duty;
And to the world we’ll surely prove
That mind is more than beauty.
Our sons and daughters shall be taught
The path of truth and honor,
And by God’s help we’ll them restrain
From aught that brings dishonor.
						Chorus.
We’ll aid the weak, and with the strong
We’ll join in just endeavor,
To raise the fallen from the dust
And bring them into favor.
And to this end we’ll ask our God
His kindly aid to guide us,
In paths of virtue, peace, and truth
And that no ill betide us.
						Chorus.
	Written for the W. S. A. Beaver, Utah.
Words and Music by W. G. Bickley.


S. L. CO. CONVENTION.

	THE Annual Convention of the W. S.
A. of Salt Lake Co. for the election of
officers, was held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Hall, Tuesday November 20th
1894, President E. MacFarlane in the
chair. Sang, “Come Away” Prayer by
Mary A. Freeze. Sang, “Why do we
seek” Roll called, minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. The treasurer’s
report for the year was read and approved.
The election of officers by ballot was then
proceeded with, and resulted in the follow-
ing being unanimously sustained.
	Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, President, Ruth
M. Fox, first Vice President, Adella W.
Eardley, seeond Vice President, Mary E.
Bassett, third Vice President, Mary E.
Irvine, Secretary, Ella W. Hyde, Treasurer,
Mary P. Silver, Chairman Ex. Board, E.
M. Price, Julia Druce, Louisa Badger and
E. MacFarlane members of board.
	The retiring President thanked the mem-
bers for their attendance during the year
just passed, said she had only been absent
once in the year. In a very pleasing
manner she then introduced the incoming
officers, feeling sure that they were the
right ones. President E. B. Ferguson
moved we give a hearty vote of thanks to
the retiring officers. It was carried unani-
mously. E. M. Price had only been absent
twice in four years, if she had not benefited
others she had benefited herself. Julia
Druce was very much pleased with the new
officers, thought they were just the ones
wanted at the present time; wished them
success, would do all she could to help the
cause along.
	President E. B. Ferguson thanked the
members for their confidence in her, would
do all she could to retain it, said there will
be plenty to do. The election is over, but
we ought to interview the members elected
to see if they intend to place women side
by side with men in the constitution, many
are inclined to hang back, saying wait till
we are a State then we will give to women
Suffrage. That women want to vote if
given the opportunity has been fully de-
monstrated in Colorado; they not only voted
themselves, but sought out all the indif-
ferent ones. We will find many who are
willing to work with us to obtain a proper
recognition in the constitution. Read a
very forcible letter from the Salt Lake Tri-
bune written by Mrs. Youngblood.
	A motion was made and carried that the
lady be waited upon and thanked for her
letter, also a communication be sent to the
daily papers expressing the feeling of this
meeting in regard to her noble defense of
woman. Moved to adjourn till December.
			MARY E. IRVINE, Sec.


[Column 1]
			CHAUCER.

	LIKE a new star did the genius of
Chaucer burst upon the English world of
the fourteenth century. A star which, by
its mellow radiance, revealed to that world,
beauties and pleasures it never dreamed of
before. A heralding luminary shedding its
friendly light down to the brilliant con-
stellation which was to follow in the dis-
tance. 
	 As the “Father of English poetry” he
has claimed the honor of all succeeding
generations; as the first to fix the clear
form of literary English, welding the two
tongues, struggling for supremacy, into
harmonious oneness and rhythm, thus
making it a true medium of poetic thought,
he must ever claim our gratitude; and, as
the first English artist, who, overflowing
with joy and love for all about him, war-
bled forth the gladness of his heart to de-
light the solemn world, we cannot with
hold from him our admiration.
 	A true child of nature—he sang of her
beauties and opened to the less observing
multitude, the door to a new creation.
	 Her simplest trophies were not too
small for his attention, for he gained his in-

[Column 2]
spiration from her melodies; and re-echoing
her touching notes he awoke the heart of
the world to her wondrous symphonies
We may look upon him as a simile of
spring, for in the presence of his spirit we
feel the gladdening rays of the sun; hear
the twitter of the birds in the blossoming
branches, and see the rainbow covering
that clothes the earth anew.
	His comprehensive sympathies were
attuned to the great throbbing heart of
humanity, as well as to the beauties of ex-
ternal nature. He felt with it—and for it,
in all its multitudinous variety of emotions.
And his wit, charity and sympathy, as his
love of field and flowers, became contagious
to his readers. This was his happy faculty:
the charm of his great genius.
	His writings may be classed under three
periods; each one being characterized by
distinctive elements. First is the French
period; in the writing of which is plainly
detected the influence of the gay romantic
poetry of Fance; imbibed by the Author
during his stay in that country. In the
productions of this period there is a pen-
sive undertone suggestive of an unrequited
or luckless love, which is thought to fur-
nish the key note to the poet’s early life.
	His second period is called the Italian,
for the reason that the writings classed un-
der that heading are bright reflections of
the cultivated literature of that country,
which he visited more than once; becoming
acquainted and charmed with some of its
most celebrated poets from whom he first
learned the range and scope of poetry and
how to tell a tale exquisitely. From the
works of these poets he subsequently made
translations and in some cases as in Boc-
caccio’s Troylus and Creseide, extensive ad-
dition of his own.
	But ’tis in the third or last period that he
throws off these foreign influences retain-
ing all their culture, and becomes the true
English bard whom we love. ‘Tis in this
period that he blends the languages, charm-
ing court and populace with his tales of
endless variety. In this period his mood
changes. The sorrowing sentiment of his
early love is left behind with his youth,
while his soul o’erflows with delightful
merriment. This is the humorous Chaucer
of the Canterbury Tales.
	On these same Tales does his fame chiefly
rest; for in them is comprised a wonderful
variety of subjects and diversity of treat-
ment. In them he depicts with the skill of
a master, the idiosyncrasies of classes, yet
alway with a breadth of charity untinged by
the slightest shade of cynicism. They were
to have been forty eight in number supposed
to be related by a company of Pilgrims who
were wont to journey from London to
Canterbury to pay their devotions at the
shrine of St. Thomas. The company
starting from a London Inn, were each to
tell two tales, one going and one on the
homeward trip, But this gigantic work
was not fully completed.
 	Not only as a poet, an artist, as England’s
first real disciple of the Muse, has Chaucer
a claim to our esteem and admiration, but,
unlike too many of the literary lights who
succeeded him, his character as a man is be-
yond reproach. He was a true gentleman.
kind, moral, chivalrous to women and
patient in adversity. Though born in the
middle ranks of society he attained to
positions of honor and trust in the govern-
ment of his country, and, at seven dif-
ferent times was intrusted with diplomatic
commissions abroad. Indeed his abilities

[Column 3]
seem to have been unusually versatile for
so great a genius in his own particular
line.
	He was a real benefactor to his own
generation, and has been a source of in-
spiration to the generations that have fol-
lowed. And, as the forerunner of a grand
procession of English singers, his name
will ever be held in high esteem, by all
lovers of the divine art of poesy.
	He died as he had lived, in the great
busy heart of London, and in the shadow
of Westminister Abbey, where his remains
were laid to rest; first, of the grand family
of great English bards whose tablets have
since found a niche in the poet’s corner of
that monument of fame.
		GLADYS WOODMANSEE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter

Salt Lake City December 1, 1894.


[Column 1]
THE WORLD’S CONGRESS OF REP-
RESENTATIVE WOMEN.

	The Congress of Representative Women,
A Historical Resume for Popular Circula-
tion of the World's Congress of Repre-
sentative Women, Convened in Chicago on
May 15th and adjourned on May 22—1893,
under the Auspices of the Woman's Branch
of the World's Congress Auxiliary.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer, President, Mrs.
Charles Henrotin, Vice President:
	Edited by May Wright Sewall, Chair-
man Committee on Organization.

	THIS is the title and explanation of a
book which emphatically marks the pro-
gress of the age, and which comprises as
nearly as possible the work of that wonder-
ful week of the great Congress of women
from all-parts of the world.held in Chicago.
The motto upon the vignette (which is a
very handsome one representing the world
in gilt) is "Not for Herself but for
Humanity."
	The book is dedicated “To the men and
women among her contemporaries who
‘having ears to hear,’ can understand its
message and having open minds and
generous hearts, can regard with favor the
ultimate absolutely equal copartnership
which it unmistakably foreshadows, this
work is respectfully dedicated by the
Editor."
	The book is published in two volumes
and in one, both containing the same mat-
ter but differing only in paper and style of
binding etc. These volumes are elaborately
illustrated the frontis piece is The New
Art Institute, where the Congress was held,
then the portrait of Hon. Charles C. Bon-
ney. President of the World’s Congressess
of 1893, and portraits of other members of
that committee and eminent women, Bertha
M. Honore Palmer, President Board of
Lady Managers, and Ellen M. Henrotin,
Vice President; May Wright Sewall,
Chairman Committee on Organization, and
Rachel Foster Avery, Secretary, also of Mrs.
Adlai E. Stevenson, Lady Henry Somerset,
the Countess of Aberdeen, Laura Ormiston
Chant, Frances E. Willard and Susan B.
Anthony arranged in groups are also
pictures of many others, several upon one
page. The illustrations are all very good.
	The subject matter is wonderfully well
classified considering the super-abundance
of material the editor had to deal with, and
her zeal and anxiety to make the book cover

[Column 2]
the ground of the Congress and the
Department Meetings as well. We find it
very difficult to give any sort of satisfactory
review of this extraordinary book, which to
edit was, and necessarily must have been, a
Herculean task. The value and importance
of the book to the whole civilized world can
scarcely be over-estimated. Wherever the
knowledge of the World's Columbian Ex-
position is circulated, this book should be
read in connection with that fact, for it will
give an idea of the completeness of the
mammoth undertaking which entered in-
to every department in life, mentally and
morally (so to speak) as well as educa-
tionally, industriously, socially, economi-
cally and politically, and yet its place was
so unique that it did not intefere with the
proper work of woman in any other depart-
ment of the World’s Congress work.
	The subjects are methodically grouped
under appropriate headings beginning with
the preface which every one should read;
Chapter I. contains the introduction which
gives one a good idea of the most noted
women of the Congress in a few words of
their own, then the address of the Chair-
man, Mrs. Sewall, which in itself is most
complete and beautiful in style, and perfect
in diction—Chapter II. Preparations,
giving one a brief summary of the
enormous work which was done by a few,
preparatory to holding this world-wide
Congress, and especially of Mrs. Sewall’s
visit to Europe in that interest; this chapter
closes with a Programme of the Congress—
in paragraphs presenting all the subjects
and who treated them and names of
Presidents of the day, in the Halls of
Washington and Columbus and many of
those in Department Congresses. Chapter
III—Education, opens with editorial re-
marks introducing and explaining the mat-
ter used, and throwing much light upon the
way all subjects are treated; other chapters
in their order are dealt with in a similar
manner which greatly helps and enlightens
the reader, especially those not present, or
taking part in the Congress itself, who can
somewhat better comprehend the difficulties
of editing such an over-supply of material,
although no one can really sympathize with
the editor in her work except to have had
charge of a like undertaking. Chapter IV.
Literature and the Dramatic Art has not
only an Introductory Comment by the
editor, but Editorial Comments relative to
the session of the General Congress devoted
to considering woman’s relation to Dramatic
Literature and to the stage. A telegram
was read from Mme. Janauschek excusing
herself and expressing her sympathy with
the cause—and the objects of the Congress.
Mlle. Rhea was also unavoidably absent
but the addresses of Helena Modjeska,
Georgie Cayvan and Julia Mrrlowe are
published almost in their entirety. This
chapter is certainly one of the finest in the
book Miss Marlowe closes her address
with the following paragraph:
	"That woman is capable of arduous ef-
fort and untiring devotion has been fully
demonstrated upon the stage. She has
helped to elevate the drama to its rightful
place among the educational forces of life,
and to make true what Morley says:"—
"At the play-house door, we may say to
the doubting, ‘Enter boldly, for here, too,
there are gods.’ "
	Science and Religion follows with pref-
atory remarks by the editor, scientific and
copious extracts from many papers by dis-

[Column 3]
tinguished women in the professions, and in
the ministry, worthy of special notice
would our space permit. Charity, Philan-
thropy and Religion follows, in the Editor’s
comments she says, no preceding chapter
has so clearly shown the character of the man-
agement of the great Congress as this does;
we would like to make many quotations to
show the wide scope of the addresses but in
our small paper it is impossible; however
we will mention in this connection,
"Organized work of Catholic Women,”
"Woman s place in Hebrew Thought"—
and "The Sisters of the People," the last
paper by Mrs. Hugh Price Hughes of Lon-
don, gives one a good idea of the society,
its practical benefits and results, and is com-
paratively new in methods of work.
	Moral and Social Reform comes next.
This is an invaluable acquisition to the
book, there are many addresses containing
the best thoughts, and practical propositions,
of some of the most eminent women en-
gaged in this field of work, in our own
and in foreign countries, as well as much
that has been actually accomplished in this
direction. The comments by the editor are
of great significance. Mrs. Sewall says,
"Of the seventy-one papers presented in
report congresses at least ninety per cent
treat subjects that come properly under the
head of social and moral reform, and the
same is true of at least seventy per cent of
the hundreds of addresses made in depart-
ment congresses. This chapter covers one
hundred and thirty-seven pages, Among
the famous women whose papers are given
(at least in part) are the names of Julia
Ward Howe, Elizabeth Cady Stanton
Viscountess Harberton, Maud Ballington
Booth, Laura Ormiston Chant, Lady Henry
Somerset, and Octavia W. Bates, also of
younger women famous in their own land
but not so well-known in ours, Josefa
Humpal—Zeman of Bohemia, and Mar-
garet Windeyer of New South Wales. These
young women give great promise for the
future. The last chapter in this volume
treats of the Civil and Political Status of
Women and contains many able addresses
by women who have been foremost in
laboring for the advancement of woman's
cause in the sense of moral, social and
political equality. In the address of Mrs.
Jacob Bright, sister-in-law of the Hon. John
Bright, she brings up some of the purposes
for which the LEAGUE she represents is
laboring thus, Equality of political rights
and duties—of educational opportunities,
of wages for women, for work of equal
quality and quantity with that done by
men. Of the right to hold any office or
position, paid or honorary, to which her
fellow citizens may elect her or which is in
the gift of the state. Equality in the
marriage laws, in divorce. In the right to
the custody and guardianship of children
born in wedlock. Of personal freedom and
the rights and liabilities of contract. And
the lady remarks, “The legal position of
the wife in England is a scandal to civiliza-
tion.” Other addresses are by Florence
Fenwick Miller, the Countess of Aberdeen
and other women equally able and well
qualified to enlighten the public.
	The second volume opens with Civil Law
and Government and contains extracts from
addresses by Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, the Countess of Aberdeen,
the Baroness Alexandra Gripenberg and the
Baroness Thorberg Rappe, and many others
well known to fame in our own country.


[Column 1]
Industries and Occupations in which the
Editor opens her comments with the remark
that “The idea is still current that as a rule
women “are supported” by men. Upon
this popular delusion the following pages
throw much light.” The speakers and
papers upon this subject represent different
nationalities and are therefore of wider
scope and broader thought than as though
presented from one part of the world. Eng-
land, Ireland, Scotland, Germany, Bohemia,
and various states of the union. Elizabeth
Roselowsky, Lina Morgenstein, and Kaethe
Shirmacher gave definite information very
valuable as well as treating the general sub-
ject under discussion in a most able manner,
and as we Americans know most of the
work here in our own land, it is always a
good thing to understand what other
women are doing, to benefit and bless, and
build up elsewhere.
	The Solidarity of Human Interests is
most eloquently and intelligently treated in
a chapter which covers three hundred and
thirty-five pages. The editor states in a
sub-heading—“Illustrated by the Progress
of Women in Spain, the South American
States, England and her Dependencies; in
Poland, Italy, Siam, Iceland and Syria,
and by women of African Descent in the 
United States.” We note also France,
Denmark, Greece and New South Wales.
It would be quite impossible to give the
reader any correct idea of what may be
learned from this one chapter, and of its
true value to those interested in the great
questions, that are agitating the whole
civilized world. The editor in her pertinent
comments says: “This chapter proves that
the woman question is no longer an Ameri-
canism; that it is no longer a local question
at all; that it cannot be regarded as the
curious culminating expression of the in-
sane passion for independence characteristic
of the Angle-Saxon race.” The addresses
were delivered by women some of whom
are conspicuous among their colleagues
in America; Isabelle Bogelot of France,
Callirhoe Parren of Greece, Catalina D’-
Alcala of Spain, Nico Beck Meyer and
Kirstine Frederikson of Denmark, Helena
Modjeska, Poland. Fanny Zampini Salazer
and Sofia Bompiani of Italy, Lady Linchee
Suriza of Siam, Hanna K. Korany of Syria,
Segrid E. Magnusson of Iceland, Helen
Blackburn, England (Editor of the English-
woman’s Review, a magazine devoted to
woman’s work in its best sense,) Martha
Sesselberg, Brazil, Isabel King of the
Argentine Republic, Matilda G. DeMiro
Quesada of Peru, with many noted women
of Canada and the United States. The
next chapter is Education and Literature, as
presented in the subordinate Congresses.
One of the most notable of these is the
International Kindergarten Union given by
Sarah A. Stewart, and perhaps we ought to
mention among abstracts of papers in re-
port congresses such women as Belle Grant
Armstrong and John Strange Winter
(Henritta E. V. Stannard.) This chapter
contains many valuable papers, but it is
utterly impossible to even mention the
names of writers. Religion as treated in
the subordinate Congresses is another very
important chapter in this valuable book;
the Editor’s remarks contain much that
shows the drift of woman’s thought in the
religious world—Mrs Sewall closes her re-
marks with the Reverend Anna Shaw’s in-
spiring analysis and application of the
text” “which translated into current life

[Column 2]
imbues with prophecy. The women that
publish the tidings” already “a great host”
are becoming an irresistible force.
	Chapter XIV—Industrial Social and
Moral Reform, as treated in the subor inate
Congresses. There are also extracts from
addresses in Report Congresses; among
these we notice the name of a famous
German woman Hanna Bieber Boehm of
Berlin, President of the large association
Jugundsckutz ,also Mrs. Bedford Fenwick of
England who represented the Royal British
Nurses Association.
	The closing chapter XV—Orders, Civil
and Political Reform, as presented in the
subordinate Congresses. The Daughters
of the American Revolution by Mrs. Adlai
E. Stevenson wife of the Vice President of
the United States. The Eastern Star, its
origin progress and development by Mary
C. Snedden of Missouri. Treating on this
subject Mrs. Snedden says. “How then
came women to be associated with exclusive
brotherhood of Masons? and what is the
relationship existing between the Masonic
fraternity and the Order of the Eastern
Star? This is an exceedingly interesting
paper, and indeed there are a number of
chapters in the book which taken singly,
are worth the price of the whole volume.
The last paper besides the editor’s conclud-
ing note and the appendix is by Rachel
Foster Avery Cor. Secretary of the
National Council of Women, of which
Mrs. May Wright Sewall is President; and
if it were possible we should very much
like to devote some space to our own ideas
of the work these two magnificent women
have done for this great Congress, that
has carried the new Gospel of women and
of humanity far and wide. In conclusion
we can only say (for language is inadequate)
as we said at first, this wonderful book, and
add that it should be in every home in the
land, and in other lands, where it would
sow the good seeds of the world’s actual
progress, and help to lead into the light of
a broader humanity, many who sit in dark-
ness, and many more who are struggling
for greater truths, and practical adaptation
of those already in their possession. For
the Editor of this stupenduous work we
have the highest commendation, and trust
that it may not only be like bread cast upon
the waters to return after many days, but
that she may realize here and hereafter the
great love and appreciation of the women
of all lands for her noble and magnanimous
work of compiling and extracting the
richest kernels of wisdom, and the finest
gems of truth from so many varied sub-
jects, and making such a harmonious chain
of the whole, linked together with golden
threads of her own fine spun materials.
	Rand McNally and Co., Chicago and
New York are the Publishers, a firm well
known and thoroughly reliable. As to the
typographical work, paper and binding it
speaks for itself, and one cannot help seeing
at once that it is all first class. The books
bound in two volumes are $5.00 per set, in
one, $3.50. That this book will find
ready sale, among those who understand
the signs of the times, is easy to predict.
It is a work which requires thought and
will also produce thought, and lead to higher
and better things. We heartily recommend 
the book to the reading public, and would
gladly see it put upon the Salt Lake mar-
ket, feeling certain that wherever it is read
it will awaken noble sentiments and ad-
vanced views of life its aims and objects.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

Mrs. Zina D. H. Young’s residence is 146,
4th, St. Salt Lake City, instead of 147.
	WE wish specially to call the attention of
our readers to CACTUS PAPER published
in this issue; we are very anxious all should
read it, as it is certainly one of the best
articles (if not the best) of its kind ever
published in the EXPONENT. It is by a
Utah girl and should therefore have more
weight. We recommend it to the remons-
trants and the women who have "all the
rights they want," and to all not yet con-
verted to the idea of equal political rights.
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of this stake of Zion will be held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this city
Saturday December 15th Meetings com-
mencing at ten a. m. and two p. m. as
usual. Presidents of all the branches in
this Stake are urgently requested to attend
or to have a representative present. All
officers and members of the Society are
cordially invited, also the presiding author-
ties, Bishops, and brethren who are interest-
ed in this charitable organization.
	ON Thursday November 15th, Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp gave a very pleasant party
at her residence to about thirty ladies (her
intimate friends.) The parlors were taste-
fully decorated with autumn leaves and
flowers, and the genial flow of conversation
was intensely interesting. The supper
which was daintily served was very de-
licious, and the “table-talk” was delight-
fully entertaining. After the guests re-
turned to the warm and pleasant parlors,
there was music by some of the young
women both vocal and instrumental. The
evening was occupied with a sort of spirit-
ual feast or meeting. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young presiding, the hymn “O, my
Father” was sung and Mrs. E. S. Taylor
offered prayer, after which each of the
ladies present spoke a few words, and ex-
pressed their love and appreciation of their
amiable hostess the sentiments were grace-
fully responded to by Dr. Shipp, and after a
benediction had been pronounced the party-
dispersed feeling spiritually refreshed.
	THE W. S. Associations in the several
counties, in this Territory are hereby re-
minded that the memberships are due this
present month, and the Territorial President
has been notified that the entire member-
ship must be sent on to the treasurer of the
National American W. S. A. otherwise we
shall lose our votes in the Convention during
the year 1896. Officers are urged to be as
diligent as possible in collecting and
forwarding the money with the names and
addresses of all paid up members. Uin-
tah, Iron and Washington Counties
just recently organized are exempt from
taxation this year. These lists of names
and addresses must be certified to by the
President and Recording Secretary of the
respective auxiliary W. S. A. The Terri-
torial President also requires a concise re-
port of the year’s work in each county to
be forwarded to her address, during this
month in time to include it in the yearly
report which must reach the Secretary
of the N.—A. W. S. A. before January 1st
1895.
	MRS. JENNINGS gave, her annual “Old
Ladies Afternoon Tea” on Tuesday, No-
vember 20th, at the Jennings house. It is


needless to say Mrs. Jennings entertain
handsomely, her parties whether for old or
young are always enjoyable. Her magnifi-
cent drawing room and library were decor-
ated with flowers mostly chrysanthemums
which made the elegant rooms still more
charming. The hostess was evidently de-
sirous to have every one enjoy herself,
and spared no effort to accomplish her pur-
pose, going from one group to another and
entering into conversation lively and serious
as the case might be. It is scarcely possible
to describe the “tea.” The large and
pleasant dining room was filled with small
tables set for four or six in the very dain-
tiest and cosiest style and at each place
chrysanthemums tied with pretty white rib-
bon, a souvenir to keep in remembrance of
the pleasant afternoon. Young girls fresh
and beautiful waited upon the ladies, and
the hostess serene and smiling poured the
tea, hot water or chocolate, which was
served to the forty invited guests. The hot
rolls, oyster patties, and other luxuries,
were warmly appreciated and elaborately
praised, as well as the dessert of the
choicest cakes, candies and fruits. Mrs.
Frank Jennings favored the ladies with
some musical selections while at table, and
after their return to the parlors, which added
very greatly to the enjoyment of this de-
lightful old-fashioned, old ladies tea-party.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.

	Relief Society Conference. Hawaiian
Islands: The morning air at Lanihule on
October 5th was fanned by a variety of
neatly made banners and flags bearing the
inspired expressions of Joseph the Prophet
relative to the labors of the sisters in this
church.
	More than one hundred sisters formed in
line and marched to the meetinghouse fully
enthused with the importance of the event,
viz, their general conference.
	After the usual opening exercises, read-
ing of reports etc., in which twenty dif-
ferent societies were represented; Sister
Noall made a few opening remarks appro-
priate for the occasion. Twelve of the
societies were represented verbally by their
presidents or their representatives. Inter-
spersed between these were songs by the
native sisters and a duet by sisters Laura
Fisher and Phoebe Scholes. Words of in-
struction and encouragement were given by
sisters Alice Harmon and Laura Fisher.
Secretary Ruth Kauhine spoke on the sub-
ject of a testimony of the truth and one of
the aids—Kaluapalaoa spoke on the sub-
ject of the laying on of hands for the heal-
ing of the sick. Sister Lizzie Brown gave
words of counsel. Sister Makanoe read a
letter of condolence containing resolutions
of respect for Sister Maulani Kea, one of
our central officers here, who departed this
life September 25th. Sister Noall spoke of
the object of the society, the duty of its
officers, members etc., referred to those
who were not so zealously engaged in this
work as formerly, and encouraged all to a
renewal of diligence in keeping God’s
commandments.
	The report from twenty societies, (ten
not being represented) shows, members
494, meetings help 333, cash on hand at
date of last report, $167,85, cash received
$208,40, disbursed for charitable purposes

[Column 2]
$143,45, cash on hand $232,80. A few
instructive remarks were made by president
Mathew Noall, and the general and local
officers of the Relief Society were sustain-
ed after which the congregation sang the
hymn “O my Father,” and the benediction
was offered by Sister Libbie Noall.
	The saints in general are not requested
to attend the semi-annual conference as
largely as the annual, this counsel is given
on account of the financial crisis existing
among them, hence the cause of our con-
ference not being as large as usual, but the
same spirit of benevolence so prevalent
among the sisters in religious assemblies
was felt by those present and it was pro-
nounced a success spiritually.
Primary Conference.
	Brighter beamed the sun on the morning
of the 6th as the little folks gathered at the
mission house to prepare to march. Nimble
fingers pinned on badges of red and blue
bearing the words in white letters “Hui
Kamalii” and by 9:30 o’clock more than
one hundred bright happy faces were
turned towards the meeting house. Indeed
it was a brilliant display of colors, and in
looking at the sparkling eyes and intelligent
faces of the little ones, the thought natural-
ly suggests itself. “The Primary will
be the educator of the future Hawaiians
in this church.”
	When seated the children occupied the
entire centre of the house the smaller child-
ren in advance of the older, a large plat-
form was arranged in front of the pulpit,
and covered with Hawaiian matting, on
which the children stood to recite. Meeting
was opened by singing “Open the door
for the children.” prayer was offered by
Kekoa a girl from Honolulu, Singing
“Around the throne of God in heaven.”
Reports were read from the two associations,
Laie and Honolulu, showing that each had
preformed a lively work during the past
term. Both societies when called responded
with an appropriate sentiment. “Two
Little Welcomes” was given by
Nonnie Noall and Leialoha. An address of
welcome by John Wahilani, a little boy of.
Honolulu, was highly commented upon on
account of the spirited manner in which it
was given. Questions were asked on
“Good Behavior” and were promptly ans-
wered by all the children. An A. B. C.
song and recitation was given by Kikila, a
dialogue “When I’m a Man” was rendered
nicely by eleven of the older boys, follow-
ed by singing “O my Father” in native; a
dialogue “Pray without ceasing” translated
in native, was given by Honolulu children,
a song by Iva and Hattie Kekuku, was
rendered nicely. Several other dialogues
were translated on the subject of “Meeting
day” “Sabbath” “Smoking” etc., which
seem to have much more effect on the minds
of the children than when rendered in the
English language. The Lord’s prayer was
sung by a number of little girls in a kneel-
ing attitude. The Ten Commandments
were recited by Ahl a Chinese boy. Dia-
logue on “Obedience” by Tillie Brown
Vera and Nonnie Noall. Original song by
the Honolulu children, many other exer-
cises such as dialogues, recitations, bible
verses etc., were given, but one of the most
instructive and pleasing features to both
parents and children were the Bible stories
prepared in native and which were credit-
ably rendered by the children. The follow-
ing are a few of the subjects of the stories,

[Column 3]
"Ruth and Naomi" Jonah sent to Nineveh"
“Sowing good seeds” “Daniel in the Lions
den” “Children of Israel led by Moses”
“Children of Israel led by Joshua’’ “Nephi
obtaining the plates” “Christ blessing little
children” “Josiah King of Judah” etc.
	The Honolulu children sang “O birdie
I am tired now." Remarks of encourage-
ment were made and the general and local
officers were sustained. The children sang
“Dare to do right” and prayer was offered
by a little girl Julia. Thus closed the
largest and most enjoyable conference yet
held among the children of these Islands
and all present felt to rejoice in the hope of
Israel and ma[--] expressions of satisfaction
were made concerning the progress of the
little folks.
The Fair.
	The doors of the fair at Lanihuli were
thrown open and all were invited to view
the hand-work of the children. A splendid
display met the eye, and praise reflected
upon all who had taken part, and the neat-
ness in workmanship was commendable, a
few of the novel designed quilts which the
native sisters are so expert in making added
much to the exhibit.
	Although in some respects different in
class of work the quality and variety would
compare very favorably, with those more
accustomed to this kind of work. The
proceeds which were received from entrance
fees, have aided materially in obtaining
books for the primary work and we are now
prepared to do more good than we other-
wise could have done through lack of
material to work with.
E. D. N.

DAVIS STAKE.
	MINUTES of Relief Society Conference of
Davis Stake held at Kaysville, Oct. 19th,
1894.
	On the stand with President Susan Grant
and her Counselors were Apostle F. D.
Richards and wife, Sarah M. Kimball,
Mary A. Freeze, President Hess and his
Counselor Hyrum Grant and others.
President Susan Grant presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing,“Come let us anew”
Prayer by President Hess. Singing, “We
thank thee O God for a Prophet” etc.
Minutes of the forenoon meeting of the
previous conference were read and approved.
President Grant made opening remarks in
which she said she felt greatly blessed in
having our brothers and sisters with us and
that aged Apostle Brother Richards here
with us, was satisfied we would be built up
and strengthened at this conference.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, “I am thankful
I was learnt to be obedient while I was
young, that is why I respond when called
on, I ask your faith and prayers, we are
living in a day when there is much to do.
I am pleased to see Sister Kimball here
we should all feel energetic in attending
our meetings, it is just as much for them
that don’t hold office as them that do.”
Spoke about the Relief Society of Nauvoo,
“I was a member of it,” also spoke about
“obedience, and making our homes happy,
my home is my heaven. Sisters go on
doing good and comfort those that are cast
down I ask God to bless you and me, so that
when we are called on to pass behind the
veil we won’t have any regrets.”
	The branches of the Society of South,


[Column 1]
West and East Bountiful, Farmington,
Kaysville and Summit Basin were re-
ported as being in good running condition 
and good feelings prevailing.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball, “I am pleased
to meet with you, and ask your faith and
prayers,” she then read the 25th Section in
the Doctrine and Covenants then made re-
marks on what she had read, “think it a 
sermon within itself, I think the words that 
were spoken to Emma Smith meant all
that are called to the same position, we
should cultivate the best of our natures if
we do we become more and more exalted
and elevated, we all have capabilities far
beyond our comprehension, I pray that you
may be blest and comprehend what is best
for you.”
	Counselor Hyrum Grant, “I have been
very much interested in the remarks of the 
sisters and can testify the spirit of the Lord
has attended those that have spoken,’’ spoke
about the power of God, referred to how
he felt when he was first called to be a
teacher. “I felt as though I wanted to
shirk my duty but the good spirit prevailed
and I went and done my duty and I have
felt thankful for the experience I had in do-
ing it, sisters dont feel that you are getting
too old to be useful. I pray that the spirit
of the Lord will continue with us that we
may be blest in meeting together.” Confer-
ence adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing
“My God the spring of all my joys.”
Benediction by Bishop Barton.
	AFTERNOON-SESSION: Opened by sing-
ing, “Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer by
Brother Rouche. Singing, “Come come
ye Saints.” Minutes of the afternoon 
meeting of the previous conference read
and approved.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze then addressed the
congregation. “I heard things this morn-
that I will always remember, the prayer
was a sermon of itself.” spoke on the
word of wisdom, “I heard a man say he
was not converted to the word of wisdom 
until last conference; if I knew a certain
thing would be good for me I would grasp
it, many think that all the Relief Society
is for is to look after the poor and needy
but the Prophet Joseph said it was to save
souls, my spirit has many times needed a
physician, the Prophet also said this
Church was not fully organized until the
women were organized,” spoke about
temple work what a comfort it is to re-
deem our dead, “let us try to understand
the whisperings of the spirit, my dear sis-
ters, the teachers, you should be Angels of
mercy do not underate yourselves you are
doing much good, we should cultivate con-
fidence in ourselves. I pray that you may 
have the spirit of God to educate you that
you may be good sisters and mothers
in the kingdom of God”
	Apostle Richards then said, “I appreciate
very highly this privilege of meeting with
you, I do think the spirit of the Lord is
quite as ready to meet with the women as
the men, I do not think they have as many
bad habits they are not addicted to them,
I was pleased with what Sister Kimball
read to us.” Spoke about the early
organization of this Society, exhorted the
sisters to be more diligent and earnest in
their duties, “you have the same blessings
bestowed upon you as your husbands, and
you must understand these blessings are
yours in connection with your husbands,
there is a great deal resting upon you, your
calling is no mean one. Sisters lift up your

[Column 2]
heads and rejoice for you are blest of the
Lord. I feel honored to associate with the
authorities of this stake, and the women 
that were acquainted with the Prophet
Joseph: spoke upon Woman’s Suffrage and 
being self-sustaining, how different our 
surroundings were when we first came
here. Mothers you want to talk to your
daughters and have them understand what
they came here for, we want our children to
escape iniquity, we want to live so the
whisperings of the spirit will guide us
right for we want our consciences clean and
pure,” exhorted the sisters to be faithful,
“the time will come when it will be known
who has been faithful. I feel to bless you
my sisters that you may be a blessing to
your husbands and families and may the 
Lord help us all,” etc.
	President Hess, “I have enjoyed this
meeting very much, it seems to me that it
has all been just as good as it could be, we 
have a treat today in having an Apostle
with us, it shows to us the interest that is
taken in these organizations. I with my
Counselors have made up our minds that
we can do more good in coming to these
meetings than in any other way, I have al-
ways felt amply paid in attending them,
there is a great labor to be done, among the 
people try and be a little more diligent in
talking up and encouraging the sisters to 
come out to these meetings, that they may
receive the same blessings that you do in
coming, it is to be regretted that no more 
attend these meetings, may God help us to
see our duties and do them at all times.”
President Grant “I think we have great
reason to rejoice in what we have heard,
we will now adjourn our Conference for 
three months, to be held at East Bountiful.”
Singing, “Do what is right, the day dawn 
is breaking” and benediction by Counselor 
Mary Clark.
			PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

	“ALL the political parties of North Da-
kota have declared for woman suffrage.”
	NOT a home in Kansas has been broken
up, and probably not an iota of domestic
discord has ever resulted from municipal
suffrage for women during the past seven
years. If the women in the towns are
capable of exercising judgment and voting
their conclusions as to matters of city gov-
ernment (street improvements, police
regulations, gas, waterworks, etc,) are the
women in the country any less capable of
exercising judgment and voting their con-
victions as to bridges, court house bonds,
salaries of county officers, etc?—Lincoln
(Kan.) Beacon.
IRON CO. W. S. A.
	OUR organization was affected at Parowan
Sep. 29th, 1894, E. B. Wells, Territorial
President presiding at the meeting. E.
Crane Watson, President; Mary Ollerton
and Bessie Parry Vice Presidents were
unanimously sustained as officers of the
W. S. A. of Iron Co. Ella Rasmussen,
Rec. Sec., Minnie Adams Corresponding
Secretary. Mrs. Julia Lyman was voted
to be chairman Executive Committee. The
following named ladies were chosen as
members of the Committee. Mary
H. Dalley, Mette C. Matheson, Juliette


Adams, Josie Curtis, Ada Orton,
Gwen Mitchell, Belle Richards, Ida Smith,
and they have proven themselves a very ef-
ficient corps; since that date we have held
our meetings semi-monthly, for although
we are behind in becoming an association
we do not intend occupying that position in
our movements and advancement any
longer than we are obliged to.
	The Executive Committee also hold two
sessions each month; after our devotional
exercises we next have the Civil Govern-
ment class, take up about thirty minutes
being conducted by a different member
each time, we have a reading or recitation,
and music either vocal or instrumental on
each program, one or two short lectures,
these we alternate with the reading of a
manuscript paper, being edited by the
members in turn, once each month. We
think we are progressing finely already
realizing (to a slight degree of course) the
benefits of the W. S. A. Total enroll-
ment of fifty-two numbers.
	November 20—94, we gave a musical
and literary entertainment, an affair we are
justly proud of, the young men and ladies
assisted us with a vim that is greatly to
their credit; there were more than twenty
different parts including the reading of
“The Echo of Equal Suffrage” a number
we published for the occasion, not a jar or
sign of failure any where, this was gotten
up for the purpose of enlarging the
Treasurer’s funds sufficiently to obtain books
for the benefit of the association. We
think we have made a good beginning yet
we are only of the primary grade, and will
eagerly and gratefully accept any instruc-
tions, that our sister organizations, might
feel disposed to offer.
E. CRANE WATSON, President.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	WOMAN suffrage is marching on slowly
but surely wherever it has been tried, in
New Zealand as in Colorado. And it is
coming in Maine, coming 50,000 strong.
—Bath, (Me.) Daily Times.
	THE Equal Suffrage Association of
Kansas City, Kan., held its first meeting
after the election of consultation at the
home of President Jennie Mahar, 408 State
Avenue. The sentiment in favor of keep-
ing up the fight for equal suffrage was
unanimous.
	IF women are competent to advise men
how to vote, why are they not competent
themselves to vote? If their political in-
fluence is desirable now, why would it not
be more valuable to the State if it was in-
creased by the power of the ballot? If they
are so far ignorant of politics that they
ought not to vote, is not their present inter-
ference with politics reprehensible?—N. Y
Daily Sun.
	COUNTESS OYAMA, the wife of Field
Marshal Count Oyama, who is commanding
the second Japanese army in the vicinity of
Port Arthur, is described as one of the
most charming and accomplished ladies of
Japan. She was educated in an American
college, either Wellesley or Vassar, and
speaks English fluently, She was one of
the lady commissioners appointed by the
Empress of Japan to gather and send an
exhibition to the World Fair.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MRS. EWING’S PUFF PASTE AND
PIECRUST.

	In making the statement that pie-crust
was as digestible as oatmeal or graham
bread, Mrs. Ewing wished to explain that
she meant pastry made in the proper man-
ner was more digestible than the average
graham bread or oatmeal, and that either of
the latter was not good when eaten under
protest, or with the idea that one must eat
it for his health; but if eaten because re-
lished, the case was different. A constant
use of any one article of diet is dangerous,
especially for young people. Some eminent
physicians argue that every cell of every
organ requires its own nutrition, hence the
need of variety. The average person who
is seemingly best fed may perhaps be little
fed.
	Mrs. Ewing then prepared the flaky pie-
crust in the following manner: Take three
cups of sifted flour to one cup of shortening,
(the shortening consists of half butter and
half lard;) after measuring the shortening
set it on ice to cool. Everything connected
with making pastry should be perfectly
cold. Hash the flour and shortening to-
gether before an open window so the air
enters the paste as you turn it. When
hashed so that the shortening appears like
flakes about the size of a pea, add ice water
about three quarters of a cup, and scatter
in all through, not in one place because you
don’t want to work it any more than
necessary to make a combination. Do not
use the hands, for two reasons; first, it
would warm the shortening, and second, it
would make it too fine; be sure not to rub
the pie crust any more than you can help,
rather too little than too much, for the
flakes must not be destroyed. Scatter a
little dry flour on the board and place the
pasty on, fold carefully in three, that is,
the first part over one-third of the way,
then bring the other end over so you have
three layers; turn so that the open ends are
towards and from you and roll; repeat this
folding, turning and rolling three times,
the sooner it is made the better it will be.
If made an hour or two before use, it will
be nicer. Use all the flour you need to roll
the pie crust, but be careful to brush it off
each time the paste is turned over. The
secret of fine pie crust lies in the rolling;
and considering that fact it would be im-
possible to accurately tell just how to make
puff paste as Mrs. Ewing makes it; one can
only learn that by close observation; but if
the principles of folding, turning and roll-
ing are understood, one can have perfect
puff paste by the following receipe: One
pound of flour, one pound of butter; work
the butter in a wet towel until it is waxy
and pliable set aside on the ice; take one-
eighth of the butter and work into the flour;
take the white of a large egg and enough
ice water to moisten the flour; work with
finger tips until it blisters or is the same
consistency as the butter; always work in a
cool room and before an open window; place
on the board and roll out just enough to
cover with the butter; wipe the moisture
from the butter and sprinkle with flour; lay
butter on paste and gather the paste over
the butter pinching the edges so that the
butter is folded in; press with rolling pin
slightly three times, first in the middle then
at the sides, then roll half as much as you
intend, turn over and roll the other side;
leave the paste about an inch thick; this is
to stretch the butter, and rolling always
just the same on both sides so as to keep

[Column 2]
the butter poised midway between the
paste; fold the paste in three, turn around,
press as before and roll. This process of
rolling is done seven times and it is best to
let the paste wait a few minutes between
each roll; therefore if you make the pound
mixture you might work half at a time and
let one part wait while the other is worked.
It is much better to chill the paste between
every turn. In warm weather six turns
should be enough, but seven is the proper
number, more might break the layers. The
last time you roll the paste, brush the sur-
face with lemon juice, measure the length
of your paste and be sure you fold it ex-
actly as before. It is better made the day
before wanted and if carefully packed in a
dry and wet tea towel will keep in a cool
place for days, and be as nice as when first
made.


GRAINS OF TRUTH.
	
	MANY yet are the secret truths of God,
which will be unfolded as they are needed.
—Beecher.

	DEFEAT is a school in which truth al-
ways grows strong.—Beecher.

	MINDS, like faces, are the real things.
Books, like photographs, are only impress-
ons.

	IF for any reason whatever a child can
be taught but one lesson, let that lesson
be Faith in God. For that one step towards
an education is of more permanent value to
a human being than all other learning put
together.


IN MEMORIAM.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF MAREN BARTLESON.

	SISTER BARTLESON was born in Lundie, Viborg,
Amt, Denmark, Aug. 19th, 1807.
	She was married to Niels Bartleson in the sum-
mer of 1831, and joined the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in the spring of 1853.
Her husband did not join for some time after.
	They suffered much persecution in their native
land even before they became members of the
Church, and were compelled to choose between
their home and the Gospel: for one or the other
must be forfeited, although their landlord tried
hard to have them give up their religion which
the husband would have done at that time, he,
being quite weak in the faith; but his wife pre-
ferred giving up her home, putting her trust in the
Lord, saying, it was all in the programme; so she
with her husband and ten children, the youngest
being only a year and a half old, calmly sub-
mitted to leave their home, the only one they
had occupied since their marriage, (twenty one
years.) From that time they had no permanent
home until they emigrated to America which they
did in 1863.
	The children all except two, the oldest and
youngest, had come before, the mother having
sent them as she could get means. This required
great faith, some of them being very young to be
entrusted to the care of strangers. But her great
desire was to have them gather to Zion and be
privillged to meet them there. The Lord heard and
answered her prayers in their behalf. For altho’
the companies, in which they came, were over-
taken with disaster, sickness and death, their
lives were all spared to meet their parents and
youngest sister when they arrived in Utah. The
oldest daughter still being in Denmark. After
some traveling around in the Territory, they
made their home in Mt Pleasant, Sanpete Co.,
where Brother Bartleson died a faithful Elder,
Sep. 20th, 1875. The remaining years of Sister
Bartleson’s life she lived a widow. She labored
in the Relief Society as a teacher for many years.
The duties of this office she falthfully fiulfilled.
One of her chief delights was to visit and relieve
the wants of the poor and needy.
	She still kept her home in Mt. Pleasant, but for
the last five and a half years previous to her
demise she had lived with her daughters, Lette
and Threna Dalley in Summit, Iron Co. She. was
afflicted with a consumptive cough for twelve
years, and the last two years of her life, she was


not able to leave her room or do anything for
her self; and her constant prayer was for the
Lord to take her home. She never feared death
any more than she would to pass from one room
to another. She passed very peacefully away
from this life on the third of April 1894, at the
residence of her daughter Lette Dalley. She
was the mother of ten children, one son and nine
daughters, all of whom survive her. She had
ninety four grand children and one hundred and
six great grand children.
	She died as she lived a faithful Latter-day
Saint and we know that she will reap the reward
of the faithful.
LETTE B. DALLEY.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, Sept. 27th 1894, Orderville Utah, Ann
Carling Chamberlain wife of Thomas Chamber-
lain and daughterof Isaac W.and Asenath Brown-
ing Carling, was born April 7, 1859, at Fillmore,
Utah. She was the mother of eight children one
of the number having passed away, her suffering
for four days was past severe with inflamation of
the bowels, then our Heavenly Father relieved
her of her suffering. She was a dutiful wife and
an affectionate mother. Deceased was a mem
of the Relief Society and also of the Y. L. M. I.
A., the bereaved husband and children have our
heartfelt sympathy.
	We miss thee from our home dear mother,
		We miss thee from thy place;
	A shadow o’er our life is cast,
		We miss thy smiling face.
	
	We miss thy kind and willing hand.
		Thy fond and earnest care,
	Our home is dark without thee,
		We miss thee everywhere.
						CLARISSA WILHELM.
Young Ladies Journal—please copy.

	A noble woman’s gone to rest
		A gentle mother’s voice is still.
	Sweet children and a husband kind
		Bow humbly to the Father’s will.

	A guileless life our Sister led
		Esteemed and honored by us all;
	A modest flower which sweetly bloomed
		Must by the keen destroyer fall.

	The loss we feel is Sister’s gain
		A Heavenly bliss is her reward:
	For while on earth she ever strove
		To faithfully obey the Lord.

	And those who mourn for mother, wife,
		May they find peace from God above;
	And if they lead as pure a life
		Again they’ll know a mother’s love.
							MARIA JENSEN.


Woman’s Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed'
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K.THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
