VOL. 23.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1 AND 15, 1895.	NO. 15—16


CONTENTS:
	Woman Suffrage Column. The Agricultural
College of Utah Experiment Station—Colton.
U. W. P. Club—L. S. Wilcox. Brothers And
Sisters—L. L. Greene Richards. A Surprise,
Young Women’s Ideas. Utah Woman’s Silk As-
sociation. R. S. And P. A. Reports. Ladies’
Semi-monthly Meeting—Vilate Young. In The
Year of Our Lord 1894. National American W
S. Convention. Welcome Awaits The N. A. W
S. A. Bread Making. Notes And News. In
Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—Convention In Atlanta.
	POETRY:—Undersong—Mary C. Francis. Our
Home Above—L. L. Greene Richards. Thoughts
Of Home—E. R. Shipp. Sometime—Selected.


UNDERSONG.

“TIS said that joy doth most illume the heart,
	Yet sometimes sorrow sings.  A bruised rose
Is sweet; the nightingale, pierced with thorn-
		dart,
	Pours forth divinest warblings of her woes,
That clave the listening air, and, swelling, floats
To blend faint harmony with angel’s notes.
	As the far ocean’s moans, on sullen stones,
Die with faint music in their undertones,
So in the soul the after-time of pain
Makes a soft undersong like dropping rain.
Late, soon or late, the pendulum of fate
Swings from despair to hope—thou must but wait;
Soon, late or soon, is given the final boon,
The glorious radiance of eternal noon.
How know we but that heaven’s sweetest tones
Are transformed echoes of earth’s saddest 
	moan’s?”
				MARY C. FRANCIS.


OUR HOME ABOVE.
	(Air “The Old Folks at Home.”)
WAY up among the “Many Mansions,”
			Fair, fair to see!
Where Christ, the blessed, holds our ransoms,
		There’s where we hope to be.
There once with father dear, and mother,
			Happy were we;
And with the Saviour’s King, our brother,
		There’s where we hope to be.
CHORUS.
Though our lives are glad and cheery,
	Filled with works of love;
Yet oft the heart grown faint and weary,
	Longs for its home above.
How many loved ones, true and tender,
			From earth set free,
Are dwelling now in bliss and splendor,
		There, where we hope to be.
Like ripened fruit, or leaf, or flower,
			From parent tree,
Some cherished friend is called each hour,
		Home, where we hope to be.

CHORUS.
Thus clouds are ever shadows casting,
		O’er Times rough sea;
But pleasures will be pure and lasting,
		There, where we hope to be.
Sometimes, in hallow’d dream or vision,
		Earth seems to flee;
One glimpse of Heaven brings decision— 
		There's where we, too, must be.


CHORUS.
Soon will the mystic veil be riven—
	Sing, Sing with glee!
While faithful to each trust that’s given, 
	In what we all must be.
Blest Faith, which gives the soul expansion,
	God’s grand decree;
That each may earn a glor’ous mansion,
	There, where we all shall be!
CHORUS.
In that life most bright and cheery,
	Filled with peace and love,
Our hearts will never more grow weary,
	Safe in that home above.
				L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN,
UTAH W. S. A.
	MRS. PRESIDENT, officers and members
of the National American Woman Suffrage
Association.
	Since we made the report from Utah to
the Convention held in Washington in
February, 1894, public affairs in the terri-
tory have very materially changed. Where-
as heretofore Congress has opposed the ad-
mission of Utah to statehood, this last year
there was little or no opposition. An
enabling act having passed the Congress of
the United States, providing for a Constitu-
tion to be framed suited to the conditions
of the country, and in harmony with the
laws of the Republic, we look forward with
great hope to the Constitutional Conven-
tion which will convene in the coming
March, believing that the men of our
Territory will stand for equal suffrage, and
that the word male will be excluded from
the statutes of the new state, giving all
persons born in America, or naturalized,
the same rights to citizenship. The divi-
sion of the voters on strictly party lines did
much towards bringing Utah into favorable
recognition by the government; the ques-
tions that once agitated the people are
obliterated, and in this respect as regards
women, much was accomplished through
the work done for the Columbian Exposi-
tion, when all women combined their efforts
to make the Utah exhibit a complete success
in every line, or department of woman’s
work. This has also given suffrage senti-
ment a more wide-spread recognition from
the fact that women who had once been
enfranchised, and who had practically
realized the privileges of the ballot; through
mingling with those who were new to the
Territory, and indifferent on the subject, 
(some of them even opposed) by their as-
sociating, became unawares as it were,
partially if not wholly converted to woman
suffrage.
	Previous to the election of delegates to
the Constitutional Convention which was
held in November last, considerable cam-
paign work was done by both the popular
parties, Republicans and Democrats, and
suffrage women in the several counties used
their utmost influence and best powers

[Column 2]
of persuasion to diffuse the ideas of equal
rights. Here and there women were in-
vited to speak in political meetings, and
they usually responded. All the political
parties in Utah adopted resolutions in their
platforms, practically pledging themselves
(in a way) to work for women suffrage in
the State convention.
	The W. S. A. in the territory has been
 very conservative, and has not as an as-
sociation affiliated, or allied itself to any
party, but maintained its allegiance to the
woman suffrage question proper, awaiting
developments and holding itself in readi-
ness to work with a purpose when the
opportune time should arrive, as come it
will, and must.
	Meantime, the members have not been
idle, or off their guard, but have sought
diligently in season and out of season to
spread the good word. Debates have been
frequent and numerous on this question, and
have been held on public platforms, and in
social and literary clubs by the young peo-
people, and even children. Only the very
day I left home to come to the convention,
a boy not more than twelve years old came
to me for literature and information, telling
me he was to debate on woman suffrage
with one of his schoolmates, and adding,
“I am on the affirmative and I’m going to
win.” “Of course, you will,” I replied,
“it’s the winning side."
	There are nineteen counties organized
now in Utah, three during this last year,
and although money is very scarce in the
West, we are determined to keep up our
membership to the National American
Woman Suffrage Association, because we
feel that in union there is strength, and
believe that the women of all states and
territories in the United States, should
unite on this great question which means
so much for womenkind, and for the better-
ment of all the world. We are determined,
as an association in Utah, not to be aggres-
sive, but to maintain our integrity to the
cause of equal suffrage which we have so
much at heart, and hold ourselves as a
reserve force, feeling sure that the time is
near at hand when the womanly and moral
element will be needed in the nation to
co-operate with men in the solution of the
grave questions which agitate the country,
the great wrongs to be righted, in which
women are as deeply interested as men,
mortgage indebtedness, bonding, excessive
taxation, and other serious matters which
call for reform, and to materially assist in
these matters, women must have equal
political privileges and advantages with the
men of the nation.
	The Utah suffragists have very strong
backing in the young men born in the vales
of the Wasatch, with an inheritance of the
love of freedom (a characteristic peculiar to
mountainous countries,) and nurtured by 
the mothers and fathers who prized liberty 
dearer than life. A number of the dele-
gates to the coming Constitutional Conven-
tion are young men who cherish these
principles, therefore we consider the out-
look most hopeful and encouraging. A
delegation of women will doubtless be care-


[Column 1]
fully selected to go before the convention
and listen, watching carefully any and every
measure calculated to infringe upon the full
freedom and liberty of women, and to
present petitions, if needful, should emer-
gencies unlooked for arise.
	Our conditions are very favorable as re-
gards the press; the State papers (almost
without exception) will publish a reason-
able amount of suffrage matter and the
country papers are equally helpful in this
respect. Home magazines devote space to
these subjects, and we have a competent
State Press Committee.
	We have had since June first 1872, the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT which has always
advocated equal suffrage ever since it was
established, and though it is comparatively
local in its circulation, yet it is ever loyal
to the rights of women and to the National
Association, and it is circulated in many
states and territories, also in foreign coun-
tries, and upon the islands of the sea. This
little paper has certainly been an important
factor in educating the women of our
mountain vales in the suffrage cause. To
be sure, some parts of our territory are
more active in organized work than others,
and have more local clubs, but generally
speaking, the tendency is to solidity, and in
the right direction.
	In my opinion, there are two good reasons
why the women of Utah should have the
ballot, apart from the general reasons why
all women should have it. First: because
the franchise was given to them by the Ter-
ritorial Legislature and they exercised it
seventeen years, never abusing the
privileges, nor was any cause assigned for
taking the ballot away from them, except
as a political measure.
	Second: There are undoubtedly more wo-
men in Utah who own their own homes
and pay taxes (if in a small way) than in 
any other state with the same number of
inhabitants, and Congress has, by its enact-
ments in the past, virtually made many of
these women heads of families.
	And in conclusion, let me say the con-
ditions of equality in all our educational in-
stitutions is and has always been the same
for girls as for boys. It was the sentiment
of the founders of the territory, and has no
doubt had a broadening influence upon the
whole body politic of that grand and
promising rising star in the West which is
now about to emerge from the obscurity in
which it has been hidden into the bright
galaxy of states, and take its place with the 
stars of equal magnitude in the Western
domain of the Republic.
			E. B. WELLS, President.
		
		SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.
	MINUTES of the W. S. A. held in the
14th Ward, December 18th 1894. President 
E. B. Ferguson in the chair. Sang “Hark
the sound of myriad voices.” Prayer by
E. J. MacFarlane, Sang, “Our Country.”
Minutes read and approved. Roll called.
President Ferguson gave an opportunity
for those present to give their names, re-
ferred to the motion made at last meeting,
a letter had been sent to Mrs. Youngblood.
Decided we would not hold two weeks
meetings till after the holidays. The Presi-
dent gave an excellent address on “Woman
Suffrage in relation to social reform.” Mrs.
Tibbles President of the W. C. T. U. read
a short paper in regard to the work in
which she is engaged, 50,000 petitions had
been sent in, but it did not seem to have

[Column 2]
accomplished much, there are only sixty
ladies actively interested in the temperance
movement in Utah and no member of the
Latter-day Saints church. The lady want-
ed assistance from all.
	E. J. MacFarlane stated that the prin-
ciples taught by the Latter-day Saints em-
brace the temperance movement. Miss
Burton, President of the Rescue Mission,
thought if we had a vote it would help us
in our work, she then made a very touch-
ing appeal on behalf of the many young
girls who are being led astray, announced
a meeting to be held in the M. E. Church,
to help raise means. Referred to the need
of a matron in the city jail. Dr. Fergu-
son thanked the ladies for their attendance.
Ruth M. Fox endorsed all that had been
said, this was a day when we needed to be
self-reliant, women, had always thought
men should be just as good as women.
Maria Holt was chosen as assistant Secre-
tary. Dr. Ferguson appointed as a com-
mittee in regard to visiting those who
could appoint a police matron.
	It was then announced that at our next
meeting a paper, women as wage-earners,
would be read by Louise Badger. Ad-
journed till January. Benediction by M.
E. Irvine.		MARY E. IRVINE, Sec.
	MINUTES of the W. S. A. held January
15th 1895 in the 14th Ward Hall, Presi-
dent Dr. Ferguson in the chair. Sang
‘Why do we seek” Prayer Ruth M. Fox,
Sang “Oh ye fair ones” Roll call. Min-
utes for December read and approved.
President Dr. Ferguson then read a letter
from Mrs. Youngblood, thanking the ladies
for notice of her letter. Business was then
attended to carried that we meet twice a
month. Louise Badger then read a paper
on, “Women as wage earners,” President
Hannah Lapish of American Fork ad-
dressed the audience, in her usual pleasant 
and able manner. President Dr. Ferguson
then referred to a petition that is being,
circulated in Weber and David Counties,
decided that we have a similar petition for
Salt Lake Co. Adjourned till Tuesday
January 22nd. Dismissed by E. J. Mac-
Farlane. M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF
UTAH EXPERIMENT STATION.
PRESS BULLETIN.
	WE have received a copy of bulletin No.
37 of the Utah Experiment Station. It
treats on “Fruits and Fruit Trees; Orna-
mental, Forest and Shade Trees.” Ex-
periments with different varieties of straw-
berries, grapes, peaches, apricots, cherries,
plums, pears, apples. It also contains a
short chapter on “orchard culture,” and one
on “ornamental, forest and shade trees.
The bulletin is summed up as follows:
1.	Parker Earle, Sharpless and Thomp-
son’s No. 7., are recommended as promis-
ing strawberries.
2.	The following varieties of grapes are
recommended for trial: Concord, Delaware,
Early Victor, and Massasoit, the Early
Victor being specially recommended for
places subject to early freezes.
3.	Only the peaches generally classed as
early or mid-season should be planted in
Cache county and localities with a similar
climate.
4.	Russian apricots are specially recom-
mended where the larger kinds will not
thrive on account of severe winters.


5.	Sour cherries, such as Mt. Large
and Early Richmond, should be planted
where the sweet cherry does not thrive. 
	6.	Sowing lucern, timothy, or clover
in a young orchard should be discouraged.
	7.	Poplar trees are shown to be the
most promising for general forestry pur-
poses.
	8.	The growing of some of the hard-
wood trees, such as Black and White Wal-
nuts and Ash, can probably be made 
profitable.
	This bulletin should be studied by the
horticulturists of the Territory.
	IN proportion as nations get more cor-
rupt, more disgrace will attach to poverty,
and more respect to wealth.  There are
two questions that would completely re-
verse this order of things:  What keeps
some persons poor?  And what has made
others rich?  The true answer to these
would often make the poor man more proud
of his poverty than the rich man is of his
wealth, and the rich man more justly
ashamed of his wealth, than the poor man
unjustly now is of his poverty.—Colton.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THE Utah Woman’s Press Club met at
the office of Dr. E. R. Shipp.  Thursday
evening Jan 31st.  The president in the 
chair.  Opening prayer by Mrs Maria W.
Wilcox.  The roll was answered by poetical
sentiments.  Minutes of previous meeting 
read and approved.
	A paper on Milton by Mrs. Nellie C.
Taylor was read by the secretary.  The
reading was followed by a discussion on the 
life of the great, blind poet by members and
visitors. 
	A paper on Rubenstein, original and
edifying, was given by Dr. E. B. Ferguson.
	Miss Claire Ferguson favored the club
with a piano solo.
	It was then announced by the president
that there is to be a meeting of the Federa-
tion of Woman’s Clubs in this city Feb.
27.  A representative should be sent from
the Press Club, and a subject chosen for her
to speak upon. 
	Miss Ada Patterson of the Herald sug-
gested that the club at some time discuss
the subject “Women in Journalism.”
	Dr. Ferguson suggested that we also dis-
cuss “The Best Method of Carrying on a 
Club for Working-girls.”
	Miss Patterson also suggested that we 
some evening devote the time to John
Ruskin.
	Adjourned until Feb. 15th, closing prayer 
by L. S. Wilcox.
	As it was entertainment evening, after
the close of the regular session, an hour was 
spent in social conversation and the enjoy-
ment of refreshments.  Although the at-
tendance was light, members and visitors
parted feeling they had been repaid for
coming. 	
			L. S. WILCOX, Rec. Sec’y.


THE Idaho Legislature has voted to sub-
mit at the next general election a consti-
tutional amendment giving full suffrage to
women. The vote for it in the Senate was
unanimous. The figures of the vote in the
House have not reached us. The Idaho
Republicans and Populists both declared for
equal suffrage at their last State conventions


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THOUGHTS OF HOME.

THE beauteous sky of gorgeous hue,
	Now seems to meet the waters blue,
And gallant ship and light canoe
	Are passing far beyond my view
But sweetest thought of all the rast,
	We’ll meet again out in the west.

Afar from ocean’s roar and brine
	There is a distant western clime,
Round which my heart-strings fondly twine,
	That is the home for me and mine,
Oh may we there all safely meet,
	And know the joys of home so sweet.

There is a fair and chosen land,
	Where dwells a true and faithful band,
Led by our Father’s allwise hand.
	And they the Truth so understand,
They would forsake all earthly ties,
	That they might gain eternal lives.
						E. R. SHIPP.


SOMETIME.

M. R. SMITH
SOMETIME when all life’s lessons have been
		learned,
	And sun and stars forever more have set,
The things which our w[-]ak judgments here have
		spurned,
	The thi gs o’er which we grieved with lashes
		wet,
Will flash before us, amid life’s dark night,
	As stars shine most in deeper tints of blue,
And we shall see how all God’s plans were right,
	And what seemed most reproof, was love most
		true.
And we shall see how, while we frown and sigh,
	God’s plans go on as best for you and me—
How, when we called, He heeded not our cry,
	Because His wisdom to the end could see;
And e’en as prudent parents disallow
	Too much of sweet to crying babyhood,
So God, perhaps, is keeping from us now
	Lifes sweetest things because it seemeth good.
And you shall shortly know that lengthened
	breath,
Is not the sweetest gift God sends His friend,
	And that sometimes the sable pall of death
Conceals the fairest boon His love can send;
	If we could push ajar the gates of life,
And stand within, and all God’s workings see,
	We could interpret all this doubt and strife,
And for each mystery find there a key—
	But not today.  Then be content poor heart,
God’s plans, like lilies, pure and white unfold;
	We must not tear the the close shut leaves apart
Time will reveal the calyxes of gold;
	And if, through patient toil, we reach the land
Where tired feet with sandals loosed, may rest,
	Where we shall clearly know and understand,
I think that we shall say, ‘God knew the best.”
								SELECTED.


[Column 1]
BROTHERS AND SISTERS.

		“There’s no belief in man,
		Not even in a brother;
		So girls, if you must love,
		Love one another.”
	The above sentiment is said to have been
found in a lady’s scrap book at a hotel. I
do not like it. It is too deprecatory of one
of the ablest and most devoted supports we
ever find—a brother.
	If brothers are not all that they should
be, the influence of good-natured, sweet-
tempered, pure-minded sisters will do much
to aid in their reform. Few boys, or men,
are naturally so very bad that the gentle,

[Column 2]
persuasive voice, and affectionate ways of
a true woman will have no weight with
them. Yet, sometimes, brothers are mean,
cross, and seemingly altogether worthless;
and it is not in the power of mothers or
sisters to reclaim them. And even such
ones, sometimes, get wives with tender
hearts to break.
	Perhaps the writer of the lines I have
quoted was one who had suffered from
being afflicted with such an irreclaimable
brother or husband. I pity the woman,
who ever she was, whose experience could
have led her to the expression of such a
bitter feeling.
	A piece of advice, frequently offered by
elderly women to young ones, is, “never
marry a man who is not kind and thought-
ful of the welfare and comfort of his mother
and sister.” This is excellent counsel, to
which sensible girls mostly give heed. Yet,
even men who have seemed somewhat
careless and inconsiderate of the rights and
feelings of mothers and sisters, are some-
times won over to better things, by the
prudent cheerful words and ways of af-
fectionate wives. A man should also be
careful in selecting a wife, not to get one
who is ungrateful, or regardless of the
happiness or discomfort of her father or
brothers.
	If a man has been brought up with a
mother and sisters who are unreasonable
and extravagant in their demands for at-
tention, he will, most likely, have acquired
the habit of making refusals, and of look-
ing to be found fault with for doing so. It
is as unfair for sisters and wives to want to
be petted and indulged all the time, to keep
them in good humor, as it is for brothers
and husbands to be ungracious and arbitrary
towards those who depend so much upon
them.
	Brothers and sisters, who are early taught
to be cheerfully, and lovingly helpful, and
considerate towards each other, will find in
life, great stores of pleasure and happiness
which those who are not so taught will
never know.
	Young people must have young associ-
ates, in order to glean from youthful days
and years all the richness and sweetness
which they are calculated to contain.
Where brothers and sisters are all to each
other that they may be, and should be,
there can be no proper estimate placed upon
the true value of the love which exists be-
tween them. It is too pure and too exalted
to admit of calculation.
	It often happens that brothers and sisters
confide to each other matters which they
cannot explain even to their parents. They
are about the same age; their sentiments,
their desires, their aims and anticipations
are all the same, and for the time being
they are more to each other than all the
world beside.
	I thank God that I was reared in a
large family of tender, devoted, appreciative
brothers and sisters.
			L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


ANTI-VIVESECTION.
	ONE of the latest acquisitions to the
membership of the National Council of
Women is the women of The American
Anti-Vivisection Society, who, through a
Committee of women, of which Mrs.
Caroline Earle White is Chairman, have
entered the National Council and will have


their work represented in its Triennial at
Washington, D. C., February 17th to
March 2nd.
	As this organization is so new in member-
ship, it may interest thouse who are already
in touch with the work of the National
Council of women, to know something of
the history of the Anti-Vivisection Society.
It seems particularly appropriate that these
women should have their work represented
in the Council, since the Society itself had
its origin in the thought and work of wo-
men.  It is an outgrowth from the Wo-
men’s Branch of the Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals. Soon after
the the formation of the latter organization,
its members interested themselves very
much in the effort to put a stop to cruel ex-
perimentation upon animals, and once or
twice some of them went to Harrisburg
with a bill restricting vivisection, which
they tried, but unsuccessfully, to have pas-
sed by the State Legislature. At length,
stimulated to increased action by the argu-
ments of Miss Frances Power Cobbe, who
declared it a disgrace to America that no
Anti-Vivisection Society existed in our
Country, a few of the most ardent among
the Women’s Branch met together and with
the aid of some outside, effected such an
organization.  This was about ten years 
ago.  The infant Society had great dis-
couragement and opposition to work against,
and at first, its progress was very slow,
but of late years a marked change is visible
and there is every reason to think that the
subject is beginning to agitate the com-
munity to a hopeful extent.


A SURPRISE.
	THE sisters of the Society met at the
home of Sister Theresa Coombs, for the
purpose of a suprise party to celebrate the
thirty-sixth birthday of Sister Theresa
Coombs on the 28th day of Jan. 1895.
Sister Coombs was not at home at the time
and when she returned to the house she
found the tables spread with the necessaries
and comforts of life and in the adjourning
room quite a number of friends gathered to
witness the surprise and others followed.
The surprise was a success, the turn out
was unanimous their was about fifty
souls present; Bishop W. E. Hanks and
some others from a distance. There was
also a programe arranged by the sisters
after dinner of songs, recitations and
speeches which were successfully carried
out, and a very enjoyable time ensued.
The accompanying lines were composed by
Sister Smith and Sister Lazenby and read
by Maria Smith.

	We as a band of sisters,
		Tho’ we live in scattered homes
	Wish to make a birthday party,
		For our president Theresa Coombs,
	We have gathered here this morning
		Come from near and far away
	To celebrate the anniversary
		Of her thirty-sixth birthday,
	Now we’ll wish you many pleasures,
		Dreary scenes to drive away,
	Merry times, and many pleasant
		Happy returns of the day;
	And we’ll ask our Heavenly Father,
		Guide her in the ways of truth,
	Shield and guard her when she’s aged
		As He did her in her youth.
					MARIA SMITH,
					SARAH ANN LAZENBY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,			-		-		Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). 	Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts.  No reduction made for clubs.  City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 1 AND 15, 1895.


[Column 1]
CONVENTION IN ATLANTA.

	WE left S. L. City via U. P. R. R.
Saturday Jan. 26 ult. at 5-20 p m. and ar-
rived in Atlanta, Georgia, Wednesday
January 30th, at 11-40 a. m., in company
with Mrs. Marilla Daniels, Provo, and Mrs.
Aurelia S. Rogers, Farmington.
	We were met at the station by a delega-
tion of the Atlanta W. S. A., a gentleman
and two ladies wearing the yellow ribbon
badge, and went direct to the Aragon, a
fine hotel, the headquarters of the National-
American W. S. A. We found some
prominent suffrage women had already ar-
rived and soon after Susan B. Anthony
came and Mrs. Chapman-Catt, these ladies
had been speaking in several places in the
south and were delighted at the seeming
success of their labors.
	There is no need of describing Miss
Anthony to our readers or to newspapers
generally, she is so famous now throughout
the country, that she can stand alone and
independently as the central figure for equal
suffrage and is so popular that every wo-
man however ambitious accords to her the
honor due her noble work and individually,
and if she is not a queen of a kingdom she
is certainly a queen of hearts.
	Thursday evening the ladies were
notified there would be an informal meeting
in one of the hotel rooms reserved for Com-
mittees, and a half-past seven p. m. the
many representatives who had arrived were
assembled. The roll of states was called
and about thirty were represented, a few
words being spoken by each of the states of
suffrage work where there was an Associa-
tion at all. Miss Anthony as usual com-
menting in her original fashion and making
every one feel at home with her at least;
and she manifested a deep interest in Utah
and expressed the ardent hope that it would
be the next state to come into the union
with equal rights for all.
	Thursday 9 a. m. Jan. 31st, an Executive
session was held at which considerable
business was planned and at ten o’clock the
Convention opened in DeGive’s Opera
House. The suffrage flags were draped
over the platform and the seats were marked
off for the several states with yellow flags
and the name of each respective state
stamped on, so there was not the least
trouble in seating the delegations.
	Miss Anthony came forward amid
vociferous cheers from all parts of the house,
which was well filled, and about as many
men as women, and called the Convention
to orders, holding in her hands the historic
gavel that rapped to order the Legislature

[Column 2]
of Wyoming signalizing the first victory
for woman suffrage and stated the fact amid
the hearty applause of the audience and
asked politely that the foot-lights be
turned off explaining in a humorous way
her objections.

MISS ANTHONY’S GREETING.
	“Good Friends—This is the first national con-
vention of the Woman’s Suffrage Association that
I have ever had the honor to call to order south
of Mason and Dixon’s line. (Applause.) I am
delighted to stand here in the city of Atlanta and
open this twenty-seventh annual session of the
association. (Applause.) We have represented
here not only the sunny southland, but the states
of the far northwest—Oregon, Wyoming and
Colorado,—and even the Dominion of Canada.
(Applause.) I hold in my hand the gavel that
called to order the legislature of Wyoming that
gave to women the privilege of voting in this
country. (Loud Applause.) It is fitting that
America’s first republic—first in fact as well as
in name—should be planted on the heights of the
Rocky mountains. They indicate the eternal
principles on which the suffrage movement is
founded—the principles or equal rights to all
mankind. (Loud applause.) I hope the good
men of Atlanta will understand that we do not
claim to be the best half of creation, but we do
claim to be half: (Laughter.) I am sure
that our meeting in Atlanta will be a pleasant one
and that we are all glad of the privilege of meet-
ing in your beautiful city. Let us now proceed to
business and show the people of Atlanta that wo-
men know how to run a convention. (Laughter
and applause.)

REV. ANNA SHAW’S INVOCATION
	“Almighty God, our heavenly Father, and
Mother, we thank Thee for the providence that
has preserved the life and health of our honored
president and brought so many of us together in
this sunny southland. We thank Thee for put-
ting such a grand thought into the minds of our
noble women and for the assurance of Thy
blessed word that the mission of Jesus Christ was
to accomplish the freedom of all mankind. May
our deliberations be of such a character as to
hasten on the time when all shall recognize one
God and acknowledge themselves to be His
children. These petitions we ask in the name of
Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen.”
	First in order was business, reports,
minutes of previous convention and ap-
pointment of Committees. While this was
going on pages were distributing to the
state delegations and members, badges of
yellow ribbon, representing the coat of
arms of Georgia, frightfully mutilated.
The Constitution instead of resting upon
these pillars of Wisdom, Justice and Mod-
eration, symbolizing the three branches of
government, only two were visible. Wisdom,
having disappeared, the others broken and
decayed; the military guard removed show-
ing woman has no protection under the laws
of the state; the real coat of arms is also
printed on the ribbon in striking contrast.
It is a unique affair and displays wit and
ingenuity in the one who devised it.
	The President appointed a committee on
“Plan of work,” for the ensuing year
(really the most important committee) con-
sisting of Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, New
York, Chairman, Miss Mary G. Hay,
Indiana, Miss Laura Clay, Kentucky, Mrs.
Annie S. Deggs, Kansas, and Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Utah. Our Territory was represent-
ed on the Executive Committee by Mrs.
Marilla Daniels, Provo; and Mrs. Aurelia
S. Rogers on the Committee on Resolutions;
so you will see Utah had its proportion on
Committee work. Some five minutes re-
ports from States consumed the remainder
of the time of the morning session.
	Afternoon session opened at 2-30 with a
crowded house, after prayer, reports of
standing Committees were presented and
short speeches from state presidents.
The evening session 8 p. m. opened with

[Column 3]
music by a fine, well trained band and
prayer was offered by Rabbi Reich; followed
by Mr. B. J. Conyers of Atlanta with an
eloquent Welcome on behalf of the South,
it was indeed a royal greeting.

BURNETT J. CONYERS WELCOME. 
	“To say that I am proud of this privilege,” said
he, “but feebly expresses the happiness I feel in
addressing this convention and in giving you the
welcome of our city, which more than counter-
balances the awkwardness of its presentation.”
(Applause.) The grace of greeting that char-
acterized the welcome of the young speaker was
profoundly appreciated by the convention. He
assured the delegates that the south was worthy
of them as they were worthy of the south. The
section had suffered from misunderstanding, but
the light of a new era was dawning upon her hills
and a morning flush was on her brow, betokening
a future of prosperity and progress. The speech
of Mr. Conyers was greeted with the wildest en-
thusiasm. He conceded that the south was con-
servative but he dared any one to say that it was
the conservatism of cowardice. She had never
repelled the logic of truth and she welcomed
this convention because it entered her gates in the
name of liberty for which she had sprinkled with
her bravest blood the battlefields of the revolu-
tion. He encouraged the delegates by giving
them his confident assurance that nothing
could prevent the ultimate triumph of the cause to
which they were devoted.

MRS. M. L. MCLENDON.
	She regreted that Georgia’s welcome devolved
upon an old woman who had never held an office
and never cast a vote in her life. (Laughter.)
“If you don’t make haste” continued she, ‘I’m
afraid I never shall. (Continued Laughter.) This
is a dignified convention, and it represents a great
movement, and I can tell you that all the sport and
fun that is made of us originates in the barrooms
of the country. (Laughter.) Rest assured that
if women could vote bad men would be scarce in
office. (Applause.) On the dome of our beauti-
ful statehouse is the statue of a woman, imperson-
ating the Goddess of Liberty, and when liberty
abides in fact, as it does in sentiment, within the
walls of that building there will be no doubt of
the triumph of woman suffrage in this grand old
state. (Applause.) Unhappily for our cause,
however, in the press and pulpit there happen to
be a few men who simply fatigue the indignation.”
(Great laughter.) Mrs. McLendon reviewed the
progress of suffrage in Georgia and made a glow-
ing prediction for the movement, not only in this
country, but throughout the world, she closed
her bright and witty speech by giving the conven-
tion a cordial welcome to the Cotton States and
International exposition, and stated that a special
day had been set apart for them.

MAJOR HUBNER’S GREETING.
	In words eloquent and poetic Major Charles W.
Hubner extended welcome to the women suf-
fragists to the Gate City. He stated that his
diffidence had been overcome by a sense of the
honor conferred upon him. “No true man or
woman,” said he, “can ignore the call of duty and
I feel it a duty, though a hapyy one. to welcome
this noble sisterhood to our city. (Applause.)
The opposition to this movement that springs
from a quixotic chivalry is the only one that you
will have to encounter. Reason and right are
with you and these, in the name of God, will at
last prevail. (Applause.) You have the right not
only to seek but to demand your rights.” (Ap-
plause.)
	Major Hubner then referred to the travail
through which Atlanta had passed to emerge in
beauty as the queen of the southland. He loved
Atlanta because the dust of those who were dear-
er to him than his own life were sleeping among
her hills. He was satisfied that the convention
would enjoy the atmosphere of Atlanta and that
both the city and the delegates would be the
happier for their intermingling. Though Major
Hubner began his speech by stating that he was
not a public speaker, it was evident that his
audience was impressed with the fact that he was
both a good and a great one.

MISS ANTHONY PRESENTED.
	Miss H. Augusta Howard, of the Georgia state
association, in a graceful little speech, next pre-
sented Miss Anthony to the audience as a woman
whose home was in Rochester, but who dwelt in
the hearts of millions who loved her.
	"No mortal ever received a heartier welcome
than you have given me tonight,” said Miss
Anthony; “and n behalf of the Woman’s Suffrage


Association, not only those who are here, but
those who are scattered among the hills and val-
leys of the continent, I return my profound ap-
predation.”
	Referring to the subject that was nearest to her
heart she said that when the suffrage movement
began, a married woman enjoyed no greater free-
dom in Massachusetts than a slave of the old
south. The suffrage movement, however, had
not only resulted in a reformation of the marriage
laws of Massachusetts, but the law of nearly
every state in the union had been modified. In
addition to this, two states had unconditionally
declared in favor of woman suffrage. In closing
her brief little speech, which created no small de-
gree of enthusiasm, Miss Anthony presented Miss
Lillie Devereaux Blake, the president of the
New York city league, who was given a hearty
reception.
	Lillie Deve[-]ea[-]x Bla[-]e is one of the
brightest and wittiest women of the country,
as well as a vigorous speaker and campaign
worker; and her speech was sprightly and
brilliant with gems of thought. Mrs. Dora
Phelps Buell of Colorado was next on the
program but was not present and Mrs. Lyde
Merriwether came forward and made quite a
hit by telling the story of Dr. Holmes who
being called to fiill a a place made vacant by
an absentee who was twice his size said he
could’nt fill a place but would rattle
around it as well as he could. Atlanta
papers said Mrs. Merriwether’s eloquent
speech was perhaps the best of the evening,
at any rate it was a pathetic appeal for the
mothers of the land.
	Miss Anthony introduced Mrs. Chapman
Taylor of Denver Colo., but formerly of
Alabama as the only voter present with
spicy comments. Mrs. Taylor merely ac-
knowledged the compliment of the intro-
duction and made a graceful but brief
speech. Miss Elizabeth U. Yates, of
Maine, was the last speaker of the evening.
She won the hearts of the Southern people
by paying a glowing tribute to Henry W.
Grody, and saying she had fallen in love
with the South. Her speech was—“Signs
of the Times,” and in the choice of
language and beauty of expression it was a
charming finish to a delightful day.
	It would be utterly impossible for one to
“tell it all” unless in a daily paper with an
extra edition, but we hope to publish from
time to time some of the best speeches
made by the ablest speakers. It was a
notable gathering of brilliant, cultured
brainy women. We shall publish as soon
as possible the Plan of Work and the Reso-
lutions as adapted by the Convention, also
the report from Utah, which pertains
specially to home matters. The Atlanta
evening Journal in its Saturday night
issue had this to say, which was commenda-
tory of the remarks made of the work in
Utah.
	When Mrs. Wells had concluded, President
Anthony came forward and putting her arm
around her gave her endorsement to the speaker.
As she told of the work being done in Utah she
kept her arms around the delegate and the audi-
ence was visibly affected at this exhibition of
affection.
	Of the many interesting things we have
seen and heard and the proceedings of the
Convention especially of evening sessions,
we can only promise more in the future
pages of our dear little paper of which we
could distribute thousands of copies in this
trip if we had them. In the meantime the
dear friends at home may be assured that at
present a[--] is well with the Utah delegation,
only we are anxious to see those who ex-
pected to attend the National Council of
Women in Washington D. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
YOUNG WOMEN'S IDEAS.

	MISS FLORENCE HUBERWALD, of New
Orleans, was introduced and spoke for the
cause. She has a strong voice and knows
how to use it. She said the women of New
Orleans are now studying public opinion
and they had won some notable moral
victories there, among them the banish-
ment of the lottery. There was other
work for them to do, she cried, with a great
deal of force, as the money power of the
land was tyranizing the people and driving
them to desperation. ‘In the name of
Liberty I speak,” she exclaimed, “and not
in the name of men and women. The
military spirit is gaining ground, the
children of the Sunday school are being
trained into military bands and everything
is tending to the military to tyranize the
people, and we are working for the equal
rights that women are entitled to and that
they should receive.
	Miss Yates, of Maine, made a short
speech abounding in cutting remarks
against mankind in general, which called
forth long continued applause.
	During the past century, she said, wo-
man’s sphere was said to be her home and
man’s sphere was all out of doors.
	“Gentlemen,” she continued, “haven’t-
you had the lions’ share of the business and
the lamb’s too?”
	She spoke of how much a woman was in-
terested in matters outside her own home
as her children spent two-thirds of their
time in the schools or in the streets. She
asked who was more interested in good
roads than those who wheeled the baby car-
riage?
	She laughed at the idea of women being
unable to understand the laws.
	“You never say,” she continued, “that a
woman who comes over from Europe with
a bustle made of diamonds and laces knows
nothing of the tariff laws.
	The custom officers never say, ‘poor
creatures, they don’t understand the busi-
ness and we’ll just let them pass.” Then
did you ever hear of a woman fool enough
to smuggle anything that was on the free
list?”
	The women had a weapon in this move-
ment, a weapon that was going to damage
some of the old-time politicians unless they
got out of the way.
	“The Quakers, you know,” said Miss
Yates, “are a very peaceable people and
they do not like to take life. The story is
told that one of them waked up one night, 
and found a burglar under the bed. He
reached out and got the pistol from the
place where it had been put by his wife, and
pointing it toward the place where the
burglar was lying, said to him in his mild
manner. “Friend, dost thee see this pistol?
I am going to shoot this pistol, and if thee
stayeth where thou art thee will get hurt.’
We are today saying to the politicians,
‘Friends, dost thee see this great movement?
We are going to shoot and if thee dost not
get out of the way thee will get hurt.”
	Mrs. Caroline Chapman Catt reported for
the committee on plan of work, as consid-
ered for the whole United States. In refer-
ring to the work in the south, she said the
head officers had always hesitated about put-
ting workers in the field as the south was
regarded as too conservative. Recently
numerous speakers had come into the south
and from the reports made by them it was
learned that the south was not conserva-
tive but ignorant and as soon as the people

[Column 2]
became informed they would rise up as one
man and give the ballot to woman.
	The committee recommended the organiz-
ing of clubs and the keeping of them alive,
and urged that the workers be put in the
field and kept there. It recommended that
a fund of $5,000 be raised, and urge that
special attention be given to South Carolina,
Utah and Tennessee, where constitutional
conventions were probable, and to Idaho
and Michigan, where it was likely that
amendments allowing women to vote should
be submitted to the voters. A course of
study, to be published weekly, like the
Sunday-school lessons, is recommended, the 
same embracing political science, to be
studied by members of clubs. Any one
taking such a course shall be entitled to a
diploma from the National Association, up-
on passing a satisfactory examination.
Each county club is urged to send repre-
sentatives to every county convention, and
each state association is urged to send
representatives to every state convention to
ask for the recognition of women as voters.
	The report, after some discussion, was
adopted.
	A collection was taken up to raise the
necessary $5,000 to carry out the plan.


UTAH WOMAN’S SILK 
ASSOCIATION.

	THE semi-annual meeting of the Utah
Woman’s Silk Association was held in the
old court room in the Wasatch block, Wed-
nesday afternoon, Jan. 22nd—Mrs. Margaret
B. Salisbury presided and Mrs. C. E. Al-
len occupied the secretary’s chair.
	Others on the stand were Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. M.
A. Caine, Mrs, Amelia F. Young, Mrs. E.
B.Wells and Mrs. Lucy Clark of Farming-
ton.
	Mrs. Salisbury called the meeting to or-
der and in a few well-chosen words, ex-
plained the object of the association, which 
is primarily to promote the interests of seri-
culture in Utah, as the climate has proved
to be unusually well adapted to the cultiva-
tion of the mulberry trees and the growth 
of the silk worms.
REPORT OF OFFICERS. 
	The secretary read the reports of the
treasurer and secretary, the former showing 
the association to be in excellent financial
condition while the secretary's report was a
brief resume of the work accomplished,
meetings held and the successful exhibits of
Utah silk.
	Mrs. Allen also spoke in her report of the 
bill introduced in Congress for the establish- 
ment of five silk experiment stations, and
stated that a petition had been sent the 
House Of Representatives to secure one of
these stations for Utah. Hon. J. L. Raw-
lins had also been written to and in his re-
ply he had freely offered to do all in her
power toward securing one of the stations.
	Mrs. Salisbury then introduced Mrs. C.
W. Bennett, who read an able paper on this
history of silk in France.
	Mrs. Z. D. H. Young was the next
speaker and she chose as her topic the most
appropriate one of “History of Silk Cul-
ture in Utah." She went back to the days
of 1849, and her remarks were mostly
reminiscent, aud for this reason, doubly in-
teresting. Mrs. Young had been called the
mother of the silk industry in Utah and the
appelation is very appropriate, as she has al


ways been deeply interested in the subject.
	The next paper was by Mrs.
Salisbury, and her remarks were
directed to the exhibit of silk at the World's
Fair and how the matter received its first
promotion. She spoke of many words of
highest praise which she had heard for the
silk portieres of home-weaved silk which
formed such a striking feature of the Utah
exhibit.
	Mrs. Caine’s subject was “The Working
Exhibit at the World’s, Midwinter and Utah
Fairs.” She was in charge of the exhibit
at each exposition, and could tell better
than any one the effect produced on the
outside world.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells gave a short address
on “The Future of the Industry,” and said
that President Brigham Young had said
that is was destined to become a great in-
dustry, and she felt that his remark was
about to be fulfilled and the time would
come when silk will be manufactured here
in great quantities.
	Mrs. Stringham and Mrs. Clark, made
short addresses on the proper care of the
eggs and worms.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

PRIMARY THATCHER.

	THE people of Thatcher assembled at 
the Academy hall on Thanksgiving day to 
witness the exhibits of a conjoint fair, viz,
the Relief Society, Young Ladies and Pri-
mary. President Christopher Layton being
present expressed himself that the fair was
a credit to those who presided over it. It
was a grand sight to see the different speci-
mens of needle work, and all kinds of
fancy work. It was surprising to see how
many things were presented at the fair,
with such fine taste; and it was beyond any
thing that was anticipated for a newly
settled place. There was a dress made by
a little girl seven years old, that would be
a credit to older ones. There were many
beautiful things made by the little hands,
it would be impossible to name them all.
There was a beautiful selection of fruit for
tbe time of year. There were no animals
but some canary birds that were raised by
Primary girls. There were delicious cakes,
pies and jellies made by the little girls.
There were cupboards, clock shelves, cor-
ner brackets, maps drawn, in fact they
were too numerous to mention by our Pri-
mary boys. There were nine presents
awarded in the Primary department for the
best work. The Primary was presided
over by the presidency of the Primary.
Selena Phillips, President, Maria McRea,
first counselor, Delia Curtis, second counse-
lor, with a committee to assist who were
Cyntha Layton, Susie Hendrick, Electa
Pace. 			SELENA PHILLIPS.


ST. JOSEPH.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the St. Joseph Stake met in the
Academy building at Thatcher, Friday
Dec. 7th, 1894 at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m.
President Wilmirth East presiding. There
were on the stand William Johnson and
Henry Merrill of the Stake presidency, al-
so Patriarch P. C. Merrill besides other of
the brethren.
	After the usual exercises of singing, and
prayer by President Willian Johnson,


minutes of the previous conference were
read and approved. Verbal reports of the
several branches in the Stake were listened
to by the assemblage with great interest as
they showed an increased desire on the part
of all to perform their every obligation.
	President East was sorry that all the
Stake was not represented. Expressed her
willingness to labor as long as her Heavenly
Father desired her to, and on the other
hand was ready to go whenever He saw fit.
	Counselor Mary L. Ransom read a circu-
lar letter from President Zina D. H. Young
and Secretary E. B. Wells, on the necessity
of making their annual payments promptly
and regularly. The speaker then followed
with a few words of explanation regarding
the letter; also cautioned the mothers to
look after their children, keep them in at
night, know where they are and what they
are doing.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. by
singing, prayer by President Henry Merrill.
	In the afternoon the first speaker was
Counselor Serena Merrill who was over-
joyed to be with the sisters once more as it
had been some time since she had been
permitted to meet with them in conference
capacity owing to ill health. Felt that she
was blessed of the Lord and that He will
bless all who strive to serve him.
	Stake Treasurer Mary Taylor gave in
her report. Bore testimony to the divinity
of the work, felt to perform her duty, was
proud to own her God etc.
	Names of the officers of the Central
Board in connection with the Stake were
presented to the conference and unanimous-
ly sustained as were also three aids to the
Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
respectfully Elizabeth Layton, Maria
McRea and Mary E. Cluff.
	President East testified that these sisters
were chosen by inspiration, spoke on and
encouraged home industry in its various
branches.
	President W. Johnson and Elder George
Skinner thought the sisters as well quali-
fied to instruct and carry on their business
as were the brethren. Could see a gradual
improvement. Said the race is not to the
swift or the battle to the strong, but to the
steady and faithful.
	Counselor Ransom cautioned the officers
of the Relief Society to be very particular,
to whom they loan their wheat and that
they have good security, and that it be
returned with interest. The speakers
seemed to be endowed with the power of
God, and a good spirit prevailed through-
out the conference.
			SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall Jan. 26th
1895. President M. I. Horne presiding.
Meeting opened by singing, “O, say what
is truth, etc.” Prayer by Counselor E.
Stevenson. Continued singing, "O, ye
mountains high.” Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved, also minutes
of the 15th ward Primary Association.
	President Horne felt sorry no more of
the Primaries sent in minutes to be read.
It gives me much pleasure to listen to the
reports of the Young Ladies’ and Primary
Associations, am sorry there is such a
falling off in sending minutes to these
meetings. I hope the good spirit and in-
fluence present at our last meeting, will be


[Column 2]
manifested to day. If each will only say a
few words. We can have a time of rejoic-
ing. I feel to support the sisters, chosen
to represent us at the Congress. They can
carry reports where our Elders cannot go.
We love to have our enemies think well of
us. At the same time, we don’t want to
be too intimate with those not of our faith.
If you are of the world the world will love
you. But we have been called out from
Babylon, Paul said keep yourselves un-
spotted from the world. If we gurad well
ourselves we will be sustained under all
trials and temptations through which we
may be called to pass. I wish we were more
united. If we were the Lord would bless
us more abundantly. Politics have divided
us more than any thing else that ever
happened. Let us live our religion, putting
our trust in the Lord. The Saints can
understand the signs of the times. The
American nation is on the move. All
nations are in a state of unrest. We know
that only through our faithfulness can we
be saved. We want to be prepared as were
the wise virgins. Our mission is to feed
the hungry, and perform other good
works. May the Lord bless us abundantly
with his holy Spirit.
	Sister E. L. Taylor arose with peculiar
feelings. I desire your faith and prayers,
that I may say something interesting and
beneficial. How good our enemies are
getting. I think we are in a perilous con-
dition. When our enemies are too good to
us. As has been said, "if we are of the
world the world will love us.” There is a
great evil growing in our midst. It’s fault
finding. With our leaders and those hold-
ing offices in the Church. We should not
judge. Not knowing the motive. I hear
some say, I don’t believe this or that is re-
quired of us, we are not united, have not
that faith and confidence we should have or
this conditions of things would not exist.
I hope to see the day when all will fill their
positions as they should, stand up for right,
never allowing a word spoken against our
labors. A short time ago I heard a sister
speak in defense of a brother. She said I
am a Latter-day Saint, so is he, I will not
hear him spoken of thus, without raising
my voice against it. I trust all my sisters
will manifest the same spirit under the
same circumstances. Brother Young once
said if the Saints will sustain me it will be
all right with them. If I fail to perform
my duty God will remove me. If we are
determined to do wrong, God will allow it.
It is the duty of every Saint, to sustain the
authorities. I promise you in the name of
the Lord, those who do wrong will be
removed. Let us be careful we are not in
the wrong. Live as we may be led by the
still small voice. Attend faithfully to our
duties, putting our trust in the Lord. He
will bring us through every trial victorious.
In regard to my trip I am about to take, I
feel it will be impossible to do my duty
without the aid of you my sisters. We
need your faith and prayers. We did good
work on the last trip, I hope we will not be
left one moment without the spirit of God.
We mingle with the best society. I hope
the Lord will tell us when to stop or when
to go on. I have no desire to go only to
perform my duty. I trust I may do noth-
ing to disgrace the cause I go to represent
am pleased to have an opportunity to tel
the world of our good and intelligent girls,
and of the good works being done. Sister
Zina Young is feeble, still she is willing to
come forth and perform her duty. Sisters


[Column 1]
perform your duties, sustain your presi-
dents, stand close by her, obey her counsel,
and I promise you, your associations will
be successful, go forward not backward.
	I have been associated with Sister Horne
for thirty years, I know she is a woman of
God, let us prove our love for her by obey-
ing her counsels. I thank you for your
kind attention. Don’t criticise me too much,
but pray for me. May the Lord bless us
continually with His holy spirit, is my
prayer.
	Sister Morris said I feel impressed by
the spirit to say, my sisters will go in peace
and return in safety.
	Sister Zina Young felt to say Amen to all
that had been said. I wish the words
spoken could be written on work with our
own pen There is little more to be said.
When I think of not being able to go into
our beautiful temple it makes me feel bad,
but my duty is foremost, if we are living
as Saints. We have the Holy Ghost to
guide us. We must work out our own
salvation with faith and trembling. It
stands us in hand to be faithful. The power
of the Lord is with his people. We are
greatly blessed. We have the word of God
right in this book, (Doctrine and Covenants)
Its right to praise God with our voices,
There is great power in fasting and prayer,
many mothers are left with the whole
charge of their children, Don’t stop pray-
ing, if you seek the Lord He will be near
you. We should bless each other, rather
than find fault. The Prophet Joseph used
to say, we didn’t bless each other half
enough. Don’t be over anxious but enjoy
the blessings given, and not find fault. If
we are faithful the world will be astonished
at our works, and the Lord will not forget
us when he gathers up his jewels. I want
to hear my sister, may the Lord bless us
with his choicest blessings.
	A Sister said how beautiful are words
spoken by the spirit of God. I have great
love for my Sisters who are placed over us
to counsel and instruct. I have been
strengthened and encouraged by attending
these meetings, have passed through many
trials but have reserved strength to bear
them through the blessings of God. My
greatest desire is to continue faithful in all
things.
	Another Sister said I feel full of the
spirit of God. I love Sister Zina and
Taylor, felt to say God bless them I am
pleased to say our society is in a good con-
ditions, I hear no fault finding. Con-
gregation sang “The spirit of God like a
fire is burning.’’
	A sister said my heart is full I can hardly
control my feelings, I pray the Lord to
bless the Sisters going away, and return
them in safety. Have no hard feelings to-
ward any one, want to sustain those in
authority. Sister Wilcox said my heart is
full of blessings for my sisters, I know the
power of God is in the earth. May he bless
us, and bear us off victorious. Sister
Brown also felt to bless her sisters. We
should not neglect our prayers, for the
prayers of the righteous availeth much if
we are faithful to our duty, the reward is
sure, made other remarks. Sister Morris
was thankful to be numbered with the
Saints, this people is my people, their God
is my God. I pray the Lord to bless our
Sisters, I know they will be blessed, and
accomplish much good. Sister Taylor then
explained the object of their mission, said
the number of young ladies’ enrolled in the
Improvement Associations thirteen thous-

[Column 2]
and five hundred. I am proud of this.
Sister Francis said this is the first meeting
I have attended, have greatly enjoyed the
remarks of the Sisters. Thought Lady
managers of sent to the world could ac-
complish a great amount of good, had
spoken to Brother Brigham Young upon
the subject while in England. Was pleased
to learn these Sisters were going forth, I
am sure they will accomplish much good
made other remarks. Other Sisters spoke
All testified of the good spirit present. The
subject of fault finding, evil speaking etc.,
was touched upon by many of the speakers,
all felt to condemn the paoctune, and to
live above it.
	President Horne made closing remarks,
hoped the Sisters would pray for the dele-
gates, they have great opportunities of
doing good. May the Lord be with them
on all occasions, and may the peace of God
accompany them on their journey. Sister
Morris again spoke under the influence of
the spirit, saying the mode of travel shall
be guarded for your sakes my Sisters. Meet-
ing adjourned for two weeks, sang “The
time is far spent.” Benediction, Sister
Julia Howe.
VILATE YOUNG, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN THE YEAR OF OUR LORD 1894.

	THE Chicago Tribune has been keeping
count of the ghastly record of murders
committed during the past year. There
were 9,800 murders reported, almost 50 per
cent, increase over the previous year.
This doubtless is largely due to the enforced
idleness of such an immense proportion of
population. The causes of the murders are
thus tabulated:
	Quarrels, 4,536; unknown, 1,856; jeal-
ousy, 812, liquor, 776; by highwaymen,
525; infanticide, 340; resisting arrest, 273;
highwaymen killed, 204; strikes, 179; in-
sanity, 126; self defense, 99; outrage, 49;
riots, 25.
	The number of legal executions were
132, and the lynchings nearly one-half more,
or 190, of whom 134 were negroes. There
were lynched in the south 166 persons, and
in the North 24. Four-fifths of the
lynchings of colored men were not on ac-
count of crimes against women.
	The number of suicides has also increased
slightly, being 4,912. The causes are not
well classified, 3,309 coming under the heads
of “despondency” and “unknown.” It
seems that business losses are not a very
important factor, these giving rise to only
122, while, for what they called “love,”
232 shuffled off this mortal coil. But an
even larger number of the married found
life unendurable.
	The total embezzlements, public and
private, were the largest of any year on
record, amounting to $25,234,112.
	The figures certainly prove that adverse
times and conditions produce crime. They
afford much food for thought, and certainly
should arouse those who are saying,
“Peace, peace,’ when there is no peace.”


NATIONAL AMERICAN W. S.
CONVENTION.

	IN accordance with a resolution passed at
the last meeting of our Association in Wash-
ington, the Twenty-seventh Annual Con-
vention of the National American Woman
Suffrage Association, will be held in Atlanta,


Georgia, in De Give’s Opera House, Janu-
ary 31, to February 5.
	The object of these conventions is to edu-
cate women into a knowledge of their rights
and duties as citizens of a republic, and
through them to arouse the nation to a
sense of national wrong perpetuated by the
disfranchisement of half the people of the
United States, in opposition to the principles
of government declared by our laws and
constitutions.
	While Colorado’s full enfranchisement of
women, in 1893, is encouraging, the defeat
of the suffrage amendments in New York
and Kansas in 1894, shows how largly men
still fail when called upon to put in practice
the principles they enunciate.
	Though twenty-six States have granted
some slight concessions to women citizens,
in no States of the Union, save Wyoming
and Colorado, are women yet admitted to
the dignity of equal rights in citizenship.
In only six States of the Union are mothers
conceded to b  legal owners of their own
children.
	President of State Suffrage Associations,
from thirty-five States together with many
famous lecturers, will take part in the Con-
vention programmes. Among these ex-
pected are Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, of
Pennsylvania; Lillie Devereaux Blake, of
New York; Carrie Lane Chapman-Catt, of
Iowa; Caroline E. Merrick, of Louisiana;
Alice Stone Blackwell, of Massachusetts;
Josephine K. Henry, Kentucky; Dora
Phelps Buell, of Colorado; Elizabeth U.
Yates, of Maine, and Mary C. Francis, of
Ohio.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, President.
ELLEN BATTELLE DIETRIC. Cor. Sec’y.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	Minutes of the W. S. A. held January
22nd 1895, in the 14th Ward Hall. Presi-
dent Dr. Ferguson in the chair, Sang
“Hark the myriad voices” Prayer Mary
E. Bassett, Sang, “Come, come away.”
Roll called, minutes read and approved.
President Dr. Ferguson briefly related about
a meeting she had attended, where she
found many who were not in favor of suf-
frage, thought if all could write in this
cause they would be able to do more efficient
work. There will be very few that will
not work for purity, truth and right.
	Ruth M. Fox asked if we had the right
to discuss the petition referred to in the
minutes. Motion made and carried that
further discussion be allowed.
	J. E. Macfarlane, Ella Hyde, Julia Druce,
Ruth M. Fox, Mary L. Morris were in
favor of the petition being laid over till next
meeting. Mary P. Silver, Adella W.
Eardley, M. E. Irvine, E. M. Price were in
favor of the petitions being circulated.
After much discussion a motion was made
and carried that we do nothing till next
meeting. Reference was then made to the
entertainment to be given on the 15th, Feb.
committees chosen to act for the benefit of
the same, adjourned till Feb. 5th.
					M. E. Irvine, Sec.


MISS ANTHONY AND MRS. CHAPMAN-
CATT are meeting with great audiences and
generous applause on their Southern tour,
which began Jan. 9, at Lexingion, Ky.
At Louisville and Owensboro’ they were
given receptions, which were largly at-
tended.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WELCOME AWAITS THE
N. A. W. S. A. 
	THE Atlanta Constitution says of the
coming convention:
	‘‘The session of the National American
woman suffrage convention here, the last
of this month and the first week in Feb-
ruary, is attracting considerable attention all
over the country.
	It will be a large meeting, and many wo-
men of world-wide fame will be present
from every section. We have nothing to 
say at present about the question of female 
suffrage, but it gives us pleasure to say to
our coming visitors in advance that they
could not have selected a better place in the
Union for their convention. Atlanta now
stands in the front rank of American con-
vention cities. Many national and inter- 
national bodies have met here during the
past few years, and even larger ones would
come here if we had a auditorium or hall
capable of seating at least 10,000 persons.
Our hotel and boarding house accommoda-
tions have heretofore enabled us to make
our largest gatherings comfortable, but, in
view of the crowds that will attend our
exposition, it goes without saying that we
need another large hotel, while the board-
ing houses now here will to have build ex-
tensions. 
	All that we have to do is to provide the
accommodations, and there will be big con-
ventions in session here every month in the
year. It is a popular fad now to visit our
historic city, and the cheap rates given to
the conventions make it easy for them to
reach a point which is readily accessible to
every section.
	But to return to the ladies who are com-
ing here this month. They will be cordially
welcomed, and they will find Atlanta a de-
lightful winter city. They may not find
many advocates of female suffrage among
us, but they will find that our people will
gladly give them a hearing.—Ex.


BREAD MAKING.

	ONE of the most interesting and instruc-
tive lectures delivered by Mrs. Ewing,
during her recent visit to our city, was up-
on the subject of making bread.
	Mrs. Ewing prefers the compressed
yeast, as it not only saves much labor but
has been pronounced by prominent chemists 
superior to brewer’s yeast.
	When preparing for bread, break up the
yeast cake and cover with cold water. Use
a pint of wetting, half of sweet milk and 
half of hot water; the temperature of the
mixture should be about seventy-five de-
grees; add a teaspoonful of salt, and into
this mixture of milk, water and salt stir the
sifted flour; stir with a wooden spoon un-
til the dough is stiff enough to take on the
board and work with the palm of the hand.
When the dough will work without stick-
ing to the board or the hands you may
know you have enough flour and that is
sufficiently worked. Place the dough in a
greased bowl to rise; let it stand in a place
not warmer than seventy-five degrees for
there hours; it is then ready to put in the
pans. Divide the dough into as many parts
as you want loaves and work alternately; it
should stand about one hour after it has
been placed in the pans, but the tempera-
ture of the place where the pans stand
should not be warmer than that where the
dough was first put to rise. Each time it is


set to rise the dough should be brushed over
with a little melted butter to prevent the
formation of a crust. The temperature in
the oven for baking should be from three
hundred and seventy to three hundred and
seventy-five degrees.
	Graham bread is made in the same way as
the white, except that two tablespoonfulls
of sugar should be added.
	Boston brown bread: two cups of white
cornmeal, two cups of graham flour, two
teaspoonfuls of salt, and three of soda, mix
together; add one cup of molasses, three
cups of sour milk; (less soda if the milk is
very sour,) beat to a batter and pour it into
moulds or buckets, leaving space for it to
swell; steam four hours. This bread will
keep for several days, and when wanted it
should be steamed for one hour.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS MARY E. WILKINS is busy at her
home in Randolph, Mass. on a new story.
	A CONSTITUTIONAL amendment extend-
ing full suffrage to women has passed both
branches of the Oregon Legislature.
	MRS. FRANCES KLOCK has introduced a
bill in the Colorado House providing for an
industrial school for girls and appropriating
$15,000 for its establishment and mainten-
ance.
	DR. CARRIE LIEBIG, of Hope, Idaho,
has been appointed division surgeon upon
the Northern Pacific railroad. It is said
that this is the only instance of such dis-
tinction to a lady known in the United
States.
	The Georgia W. S. A. and the Atlanta
E. S. A. will tender a reception to the
delegates and visitors to the National Con-
ention, on Monday evening, Feb. 4.  
	MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD is the third
woman to have the right to write doctor of
laws after her name. Maria Mitchell, the
astronomer, and Amelia B. Edwards, the
Egyptologist, were the others.
	HON. GEORGE FRISBEE HOAR has been
re-elected U. S. Senator for six years by the
Massachusetts Legislature, and Hon. Wm.
P. Frye was the same day re-elected U S.
Senator by the Legislature of Maine.
Suffragists offer their congratulations.—Ex.
	MRS. ELLA B. CARTER lately read be-
fore the Ray Palmer Woman’s Literary
Club of Newark, N. J., an interesting
paper on the Scriptural aspect of the wo-
man question. It is published in full in
the Newark Advertiser of Feb. 6. Mrs.
Carter argues well in behalf of equal rights,
and brings forward a host of illustrations
from the Old and New Testaments.
	The establishment of full woman suff-
rage in South Australia is in some respects
the greatest triumph ever gained for the
cause. It establishes woman’s freedom
over nine hundred and sixteen thousand
square miles of territory—a region larger
than all the United States east of the Mis-
sissippi River. It is a country destined to
become densely populated by the Anglo-
Saxon race, and to dominate the Southern
hemispheres.


IN MEMORIAM.

Editor Woman's Eponent:
	ON the 17th, of Dec. 1894, in Snowflake,
Apache Co. Arizona, there passed from this earth
a noble spirit, Sister Josephine S. Hulet, she was
the beloved daughter of President Jesse N. and
Emma West Smith, and wife of John R. Hulet.
	Although for years in delicate health yet her
smiling, happy countenance caused her friends to
suppose that many more years would be added to
her life. As a child she was gentle and obedient,
and as she grew to years of maturity, these same
loving qualifications increased; her whole life was
one of purity and uprightness, she followed the
promptings of a great nature and worked for the
love of truth; she possessed great charity
especially toward the erring and carried a
heavenly influence with her. It has been said by
those who cared little for a good name and who
were inclined to be rebellious, that she was the
first one who ever created a desire in their hearts
to lofty aspirations.
	At the organization of our Relief Society she
was chosen secretary, also recording secretary, for
several years she filled these positions, but be-
cause of failing health she was excused from
these duties, later on she was chosen as a teacher
in the Relief Society, which office she held at the
time of her death and which she faithfully per-
formed whenever her health would permit.
	She was born in Parowan, Iron Co. Jan. 23, 18 55
She was the mother of five sons, although only
one of her children survive her.
	Her funeral was largly attended, her body was
tenderly carried to the cemetry by loving brothers,
followed on foot by her husband’s father, her son
and her sister’s little son. The Relief Society,
Young Ladies, and many brethren; the proces-
sion reached almost a block then followed the
vehicles, at the grave their ranks were not broken.
After the interment they marched back to the
family residence where the sisters were tenderly
thanked and blessed by her mother, who is the
President of the Relief Society of this stake.
								M. J. W.


Visit the Folks.
	FOR the Holiday season the Union
Pacific will sell tickets from points on the
system on December 24th, 25th and 31st,
1894, and January 1st, 1895, at greatly re-
duced rates. For full information call on
nearest Union Pacific Agent.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S.	WEST TEMPLE STREET
			Opp. Grant Bro Stable

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
