VOL. 23. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, AND 15, 1894 No. 9—10.


CONTENTS:
	Harmony In Line And Color—M. B. Hanson.
A Very Pleasant Visit—R. E. Monech. Our trip
To Uintah—E. J. Stevenson. Woman Suffrage
Column. A Few Reflections—Z. D. H. Y.  U.
W. P. Club—Lizzie S. Wilcox. In Rural
England. R. S. & P. A. Reports. Jewish Wo-
 men—Rachel Foster Avery. Dr. Hemholtz,
The German Scientist. Suffrage Fight Reopened.
Notes And News. Obituary—A Sorenson.
	EDITORIAL:—An Appeal To Women. Edi-
torial Notes. Official Notice.
	POETRY:—Hear Me Margurite—Hyacinth. The
Chambered Nautlus—Oliver Wendell Holmes.
Golden October—Lydia D. Alder. Women And
Voting—Woman’s Journal.


HEAR ME MARGUERITE.

Did’st thou hear me, Marguerite,
When I called thee, Marguerite?
	Still in hope for thee I wait,
	Down beside the wicket gate,
	Till the evening hour is late,
	And the bird has sought its mat e,
Marguerite, my star of hope,
Give me but one gleam of hope.

Should I call thee, Marguerite,
Will you heed me, Marguerite?
	Haste thy coming o’er the lea,
	That together we may be,
	And in sympathy for me.
	Grant the boon I ask of thee,
Marguerite, my star of hope,
Give, O give one gleam of hope.
HYACINTH.


THE CHAMBERED NAUTILUS.

BY OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.

THIS is the ship of pearl, which, poets feign,
	Sails the unshadowed main,—
	The venturous bark that flings
On the sweet summer wind its purpled wings
In gulfs enchanted, where the Siren sings
	And coral reefs lie bare,
Where the cold sea-maids rise to sun their stream-
	ing hair.
Its webs of living gauze no more unfurl;
	Wrecked is the ship of pearl!
	And every chambered cell,
Where its dim, dreaming life was wont to dwell,
As the frail tenant shaped his growing shell,
	Before thee lies revealed,—
Its irised ceiling rent, its sunless crypt unsealed!
Year after year beheld the silent toil
	That spread his lustrous coil;
	Still, as the spiral grew,
He left the past year’s dwelling for the new,
Stole with soft step its shining archway through,
	Built up its idle door,
Stretched in his last found home, and knew the
	old no more.
Thanks for the heavenly message brought by
	thee
		Child of the wandering sea,
		Cast from her lap, forlorn!
From thy dead lips a clearer note is born
Than ever Triton blew from wreathed horn!
	While on mine ear it rings,
Through the deep caves of thought I hear a voice
	that sings:—


Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul,
	As the swift seasons roll!
	Leave thy low-vaulted past!
Let each new temple, nobler than the last, 
Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast,
	Till thou at length art free,
Leaving thine outgrown shell by life’s unresting
	sea!


[Column 1]
HARMONY IN LINE AND COLOR.

	WERE I an artist with an artist touch I
might give this subject the justice it de-
mands, might clothe it in beautiful words
as an artist could in beautiful colors, might
show the curves and lines, hues and tints
in all their elegance and grandeur. All
beautiful things are the creations of nature
or art; and all natural things have some
claims to beauty; who can watch a sunset,
where the clouds are tinged with mellow
light, a flower sun-kissed into beauty, a
tree taking on the autumn tints of scarlet
and gold, or hear the murmuring brook
singing its never wearying song of praise
and thanks-giving for light, and air, and
freedom, and not feel, that in nature are
the truly beautiful, that which pleases the
eye, and satisfies the soul. We pass from
flower and rock and tree to the great mas-
terpiece of creation—Man. If there is
beauty in the shapeless rock or shapely
flowers, how much greater the beauty in
the straight lines, the rounded curves of the
contour of the human form, as left by the
Master’s hand. God made all the works of
his hand beantiful, but man by the use of
his art has caused to become distorted and
mis-shapen that beautiful human form.
The study of the relation of line and form,
color and complexion, open delightful pos-
sibilities, in the grace and manner of dress.
The proper clothing of the human form,
in becoming and graceful attire, is a study
which has been left too much to the dic-
tates of fashion, and the whims of the
dress-maker. How ever desirable the im-
provements proposed, or how ever salutary
the effects of the improvement there is in
the human nature an inertia that resents
disturbances from accustomed methods, or
fixed habits. It is easier to be regardless
of the pernicious effects of the present
habits of dress than to seek to improve. It
is easier to go on distorting the body, break-
ing down the health, and afflicting the
spirit, by wearing the clothes prescribed by
fashion than to exert one’s self to over-
come the defects caused by art, and labor to
restore the body, to its normal state and
rightful beauty. Till woman will allow
herself to think and be educated to this
higher stand, she can see no beauty in the
natural form. The eye has so long been ac-
customed to see the slender waist, the
clinging drapery showing the form, that it
is considered a type of beauty. How dif-
ferent is this present style from the beauti-
ful draping of the form by the Grecian, or
the Venecians, whose clothing was so con-
structed that they clothed themselves with
modesty and honor.
	With few exceptions all natural forms of

[Column 2]
acknowledged beauty are composed of
curves. The greater the unity in the
curves of the human body, the greater the
beauty of the whole. Any sudden pro-
jection any sharp angle is in the highest de-
gree contrary to beauty. A woman with
an hour-glass shape has no claim to
beauty nor were she properly educated
could she see any beauty in such form.
When women learn what a beautiful body
really is, the corset will not even be con-
sidered, for there is positively nothing to
recommend it, either as a means of beauty
or health, no woman can be truly grace-
ful and wear it. A slender person is made
more slender by its use, and all the beauti-
ful curves, are straightened out of sight,
which is not the object desired, and. if a
stout woman fondly imagine she looks
smaller, she is most certainly mistaken as
it simply crowds the flesh to another place,
making the hips larger, and the shoulders
square and higher, and exaggerates all the
curves till they are positively unpleasant to
look at.
	A woman to be beautiful must be grace-
ful and to be graceful requires that all the
muscles of the figure have full, free action.
The body should be clothed in such man-
ner that the robes fall gracefully from the
neck down. There should be no waist
line show, as there is positively no waist-
line in the human body. The dress should
be so constructed as to suggest a modest
covering that shows the natural curves and
graceful lines of the body; woman should
abandon the skin-tight gowns, and plan
something that is graceful and free and
that will hang from the shoulders. In the
selection of material for dress, much de-
pends on the size and form and complexion
of the wearer. If a woman is tall she
should select those tints of color, and styles
of make, which will harmonize with her
complexion and height. She will best
adopt such forms as will not increase the
look of height.
	Small delicate women will select styles
and material which increase the look of
size. They may wear light colored fabrics
very beautiful in themselves but with little
trimming and that choice. A large grace-
ful woman should clothe herself in soft
rich stuffs of such color as not to increase
the look of size. Tall women should avoid
stripes, short ones should avoid plaids.
Dress should be made decorative as well as
necessary. It is a woman’s duty to dress
becomingly, at all times, and as well as
her circumstances will allow. Much taste
can be shown in the wearing of clothing
be the material never so poor. Where a
style of dress is particularly becoming, it
should be adopted without regard to fashion,
in as much as it is comfortable and health-
ful. Any costume which is suggestive of
stiffness cannot be beautiful. As the body
should have the free use of all the mus-
cles, grace of motion is a finer quality than
faultless proportion, and shonld never be
sacrificed to it. A woman may have a bad
form,but she can so fashion her wearing ap-
parel, as to make herself graceful. No woman


with a proper regard for the beautiful, will
allow herself to follow a fashion which not
only deprives her of grace, but of that
greater necessity—health.
					M. B. HANSON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A VERY PLEASANT VISIT.

Editor Exponent:

	WE take pleasure in submitting a brief
report of an exceedingly pleasant visit to
the branches of the Relief Society of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion.
	We left Ogden on the morning of Oct.
23, and arrived at Spring City shortly after
seven in the evening, where we were
cordially welcomed and pleasantly enter-
tained by Sister Mary A. Hyde widow of
the late Apostle Orson Hyde, She is
President of the Relief Society of the Stake
and though seventy-eight years of age we
find her remarkably well preserved, bright
and active in her duties, anxious to do, or
say anything to promote the cause of truth.
	Here we met Sister Minerva W. Snow
(widow of the late Apostle Erastus Snow)
who is also over seventy years of age, but
like Sister Hyde she is lively and energetic,
and a very useful woman in her calling as
first counselor to Sister Hyde. Sister Snow
is engaged in Temple work also and seems
to be very much respected by the people of
the Stake; and here we will state of Sister
Jane S. Richards the official visitor who
has gained much renown in Relief Society
work, that notwithstanding more than
seventy winters have come and gone leav-
ing traces of their presence, still they have
not blighted her life-giving energies, but
seem rather to have increased her capacities,
and opened avenues for doing good. Here
we have three noble women each wives of
Apostles, each over seventy years of age,
each presiding over Relief Society, Stake
organizations and each honoring her calling
in a praiseworthy manner.
	A very enjoyable part of our time was
spent in listening to the recital of the varied
experiences of these three exemplary wo-
men. Coming into the Church at an early
date they were privileged to come up with
the church through much tribulation.
Bravely and well have they borne their
cross and felt to exclaim "It is good to be a
Saint of Latter-day." In their early lives
they forsook worldly pleasures and ambi-
tions, choosing rather to honor God and His
cause "He hath not forgotten their age."
A beautiful example for the young ladies
of our day.
	At Sister Hyde's we became acquainted
with Sister Willardson President of the
Y. L. M. I. Association of the Stake. This
is an age marked for the lack of veneration,
but Sister Willardson is certainly an ex-
ception to the general rule. Much praise
is due her for her becoming manner in look-
ing after the comfort and welfare of the
elderly ladies; aided by her first counselor
Sister Cox they succeeded in making the ap-
pointments for meetings, introducing us in
homes where we were made comfortable,
and attending to the general business be-
sides driving a team from place to place
where there were no railroad connections.
They held meetings conjointly with the
Relief Society but always paid due rever-
ence to the senior society. They seemed to
seek motherly advice, and the mothers will
ever intercede Divine Grace in their behalf
that they may be made equal to every task.

[Column2]
We held meetings in Spring City, Mil-
burn, Indianola, Fairview, Moroni, Foun-
tain Green, Wales, Chester, and Ephriam.
The meetings were well attended, an excel-
lent spirit prevailed and much good instruc-
tion given which seemed to be well re-
ceived. The main subjects spoken upon
were "Honoring the Sabbath Day," "The
Healing Power," "Fasting and Prayer,"
Morality, Education of Girls, Duties of
Parents, Habits, etc.
	At Ephriam we had the pleasure of the
acquaintance of Brother Canute Peterson,
(President of the Stake) and his genial
companion. We partook of their hospitality
and enjoyed their company very much.
They are devoted to the cause and faithful
laborers in that part of the vineyard.
	By the courtesy of Sisters Snow, Peter-
son, and Willardson we were taken to
Manti; shown through the beautiful Temple,
had a view of its surroundings and the
country round about from the lofty towers
of the magnificent edifice, a scene never to
be forgotten; language would fail to ex-
press our feelings of gladness, or the
grandeur of that Holy Sanctuary, hence
we attempt no description but content our-
selves by saying like one of old "It is good
to be there."
	Time and space forbid our mentioning
names of our entertainers, Bishops of
wards, Presidents of various Associations
of the places we visited, but suffice it to
say that in each place we were treated with
the utmost courtesy, and we felt the genial
glow of welcome wherever we went which
has endeared the people of Sanpete to us
for we truly felt that there we met brothers
and sisters in very deed.

Respectfully,
R. E. MOENCH.
Ogden City, Nov. 4th, 1894.


[Column 1]
OUR TRIP TO UINTAH.

	In connection with Sisters M. A. Freeze
and May Anderson having been called to
visit the sisters organizations in Uintah
Stake, also Wasatch Stake, we left our home
Wednesday Morning September twelfth, 
took the eight o’clock train for Park City,
arriving there before eleven oclock. En-
joyed the ride very much up Parley’s Canon;
we expected to hold meeting in Park City
but were disappointed because of the Bishop
and Counselors being absent from home.
Brother Oakes, our teamster, not reaching 
until evening, we could not leave for Heber
until morning, we met with very kind 
friends who did all they could for us put-
ting up at Brother and Sister Rasband’s;
when we arose next morning the snow was
about two inches deep which did not look
very encouraging, but we started traveling
through a twelve mile canyon, then entered
the beautiful little valley of the Wasatch;
we were very kindly received, but were
discouraged on every hand, about going to
Ashley in the storm, but be assured we did
not feel like returning, until our mission
was filled. Thursday afternoon a Stake 
Conference was appointed for Monday,
which we expected to attend on our return, 
but waiting for the weather to clear up so
as to proceed on our journey. Friday our
friend Brother Brown, of Charleston, took
us to visit the warm-springs at Midway, of
which there are many, in pot shape, one
being a very large one. Saturday after-
noon we held three meetings in Midway,

[Column 2]
Relief Society, Young Ladies’ and Pri-
mary, we did have an excellent time; 
Bishop Watkins and wife entertaining us
very kindly. Sunday we attended two ex-
cellent meetings in Charleston, putting up
at Bishop Nymphas Murdock’s, had a splen-
did visit	Monday we attended three
meetings in the stake house, in Heber
City, the building certainly is a credit to
the place; President Hatch attended the
afternoon meeting and treated us so kindly.
Many a noble Saint did we find in Wasatch
Stake, Brother Bridge and wife did all in 
their power to make our stay pleasant, also
Brother and Sister Brown, Sister Emma
Brown is the Stake President. Tuesday
eighteenth, the weather having cleared up
and Brother Oakes, our teamster’s children
having sufficiently recovered, we left Heber
for Vernal, Brother and Sister Brown ac-
companying us, which we appreciated very
much; we ascended over the top of the
Wasatch mountain through a fourteen
mile canyon, then through Strawberry
valley on through the roughest roads that
could be imagined a continual going up
and down mountains, crossing rivers four
times, also the bad lands and well may they
be called “bad lands” for sixty miles not
a sage brush or a grease wood, yet our
teamster knowing the road so well, managed
each night to find a nice camping ground.
	Friday night we camped on the east
side of Fort Du Chesne on the river’s
edge.
	Saturday, twenty-second, one o’clock
p. m., we arrived in Ashley and found 
many warm hearted Saints to greet us, but
regretted very much to find Brother Oakes, 
our teamster’s father, very ill. Sunday
we attended the Relief Society Conference,
two meetings, crowded houses. Monday
the Young Ladies’, Tuesday the Primary
Association; after the afternoon session, we 
organized a W. S. Association with Sister 
Stringam as President an excellent spirit
prevailed throughout, we also blessed
several sick and did all that we could to
comfort and bless, but we regretted very
much that our stay could not be longer,
among those good true Latterday Saints
that know so well how to appreciate the
blessings of the Gospel, being so far away
from the Center Stake. Uintah County is
situated in a beautiful little valley eight by
twenty miles with Greene and Ashley
rivers running through; the climate is ex-
cellent and the products cannot be surpassed.
Brother James Hacking last year raised
very near three thousand pounds of honey
and this year over three thousand pounds
and the fruit is fine. Brother Strinham
has a five acre vineyard with different
varieties of grapes. We left Vernal on our
return trip Thursday morning, 27th, hav-
ing had a very happy time with the dear
Saints there, we traveled on camping four
nights each way, Sunday night we camped
in a heavy snow-storm half way down
Daniels Canyon. Monday morning we
breakfasted at Brother Jacobs at the mouth
of the canyon, they made us feel very 
much at home, we hurried on to Heber
City (having parted with Brother and Sis-
ter Brown) took leave of the good Saints
there, hurried on to Park City, took the
train for home, reached Salt Lake City
seven p. m., thankful to find all well at
home, taking it altogether having had a 
very pleasant trip.
	Yours with kindest regards,
					E. J. STEVENSON


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GOLDEN OCTOBER.

  		BIRTHDAY THOUGHTS.

GOLDEN and brown October, with its gently fall-
	ing leaves
Its spirit calm and peaceful soothes the heart
	that grieves;
The glorious Indian Summer, with its ruddy sun-
	sets rare,
Breathes of another summer, its flowers beyond
	compare
Bloom by the living waters, unplucked by mortal
	hand—
Many dear and loved ones have hastened to that
 	“Land.”
Dear is brown October, to a mother’s loving
	heart
Whose nestlings came this beauteous time, to 
	share in life a part,
The ruddy sunsets speak of joy, your birthdays
	came you know,
And o’er again I live the days, now past so long
	ago,
Then in my arms I held you all, and looking in
	your eyes
Saw the light of angels, you’d left beyond the
	skies.
But the year’s not all October, for snowy days
	soon came,
And resting close in warm embrace, the sunsets'
	not the same,
Within the hallowed circle of a loving earthly
	home,
You chirped and smiled and laughed in glee ’till
	other sunsets shone,
And so Octobers came and went, for your birthdays
	every year,
I decked your cakes with roses red, and kissed
	the childish tear.
But, alas, the bright October, brings birthdays
	two for me,
Of darlings loved so tenderly, whom now I can-
	not see,
Up in the grassy hillside, among the silent dead
I sit beside your lonely beds, but tears I cannot
	shed,
Looking over to the westward, the sun in glory
	shines
And slowly sinking o’er the. Lake, with crimson
	cloud combines.
It is a glorious promise, of another beauteous
	day
I bind it in my heart and sorrowing turn away:
O, Father in the future, now hidden by thy hand
When on the brink of life, feebly tottering I
	stand,
Grant that an Autumn sunset, with its red and
	gold between
May welcome me to the ‘‘Better Land,” where
	my nestlings long have been.
	LYDIA D. ALDER.
October 15th, 1894.


[Column 1]
WOMEN AND VOTING.

	BY LOUISE CASTLE WALBRIDGE.

WHAT! Shall the women vote? No! no!
We cannot, will not have it so;
Our mothers sweet, our sisters, wives,
Whose graceful charms delight our lives,
They mingle at the polls with men?
No! no! 'Twould make them masculine.
The farmer's wife, as we all know,
Must sow the garden, weed and hoe,
Must care for pigs, and milk the cow,
And even cultivate and plough.
The babe may cry with all his might—
Mamma must work—and that’s all right.

[Column 2]
But should she don her hat and gown,
And take the car to go to town
To cast her ballot—dreadful thought!—
A transformation would be wrought.
Ah! never more to cook or sew,
To sweep or dust, or wield a hoe.
In rags her lord, her children, too,
As we have often said to you.
A man, of course, is no such shirk,
For he can vote and keep at work,
And woman must less faithful be
If suffrage brings calamity.
In social life she may delight,
Absorbed in it from morn ’til night,
While leaving home for help to keep,
The babes to cry themselves to sleep;
We’ll not complain. That’s woman’s sphere,
Always allowed since we’ve been here.
But should she once in public speak,
A voice in legislation seek,
Or take an interest in the schools,
And ask to enter where man rules,
’Tis time for her to understand
That these things we alone command.
All who would vote to war must go,
At duty’s call, for man does so, 
And braves the ills of camp and field, 
Until the foe is made to yield.
No coward he; his man he’ll shoot;
He’ll go—or send a substitute.
The women not in war, I say?
Forget, indeed, that happy day
The wounded felt their gentle touch,
The sick, for whom they did so much,
Fatigue and danger both defied,
To serve the country at their side.
History has its tales to tell
Of queens who ruled their people well,
Yet rich in traits of heart and mind 
Revered by man in womankind;
But these are fables, it must be,
imposed on our credulity.
We must admit, in England’s queen
A noble woman we have seen, 
A bright example all her life
As faithful mother, loving wife,
Though she has reigned for fifty years,
Well versed in state-craft, wise as peers.
There’s Mrs. Howe, and Lucy Stone,
And hosts of workers as well known,
So gracious, womanly and sweet,
The world pays homage at their feet, 
Their lives attuned to this broad creed—
Home first, then thought for all who need.
It cannot be that we wise men
Mistaken all these years have been,
In thinking with so much alarm
That woman could but lose her charm
If she began to legislate,— 
For that is why we hesitate.
—Woman's Journal.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

		S. L. CO. W. S. A.
	S. L. Co. W. S. A., held its regular
meeting in the Fourteenth Ward, Sept. 18,
President Elizabeth MacFarlane in the
chair. Sang, “Do what is right.” Prayer
E. M. Price. A motion was made and
carried, that we hold an informal meeting. 
Very interesting and instructive impromptu 
remarks were made by several of the ladies
and much information gleaned. Adjourned
’till October. 

S. L. Co W. S. A.  Meeting held Oct.


16th, in the Fourteenth Ward Hall. Presi-
dent E. MacFarlane in the chair. Sang,
“New America.” Prayer by Ruth M.
Fox. Roll called and minutes of Sept.
read and approved. Second Vice President
E M. Price read from the Woman's Column
the article entitled “A war upon Woman.”
Made many good remarks. Dr. Ferguson
spoke upon Home Industry, thought it
ought to be much better sustained, referred
to the sewing class established by Mrs.
Jennings, said merchants had promised to
take the work, if we could compete with
the Eastern market; also spoke upon the
responsibility resting upon those who will
take part in framing the Constitution, we
should not allow party feeling to interfere
at all in this great undertaking. Alluded to
the need of women in prisons where wo-
men were committed for offences, thought
there should be matrons in all jails and such
like institutions. Mary E. Bassett was in
favor of what Dr. Ferguson had said, also
thought that capital punishment was right.
	Ruth M. Fox thought she would like to
study both sides of the political question
before she could decide which party she
could vote with, thought if we could have
some one like Dr. Ferguson to teach us, we
should learn qnicker. Third Vice Presi-
dent Julia Druce was in favor of Capital
Punishment, “A life for a life” the Bible
says. Ella Hyde was not afraid to state
she was a Democrat, did not like protection
unless all could be protected. President
McFarlane thanked Dr. Ferguson for giv-
ing us such a very able address. Thought
more ladies who were well posted should
attend these meetings and give us the bene-
fit of their intelligence. Adjourned ’till
November.
					M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


SARAH GRAND says she received only
$984 for the manuscript of the “Heavenly
Twins.” She lives now in Kensington, a
suburb of London. Her married name is
Mrs. C. R. McFall.
	THE women of Lynn, Mass., have
formed themselves into an organization to
be known as “Women Voters.” They
propose to take a lively interest in school
matters this fall.
	MRS. SARAH B. COOPER, of California,
and her daughter, Miss Cooper went to St.
Louis, in October, to attend a Directors’
Meeting of the General Federation of Wo-
men’s Clubs, of which Mrs. Cooper is
treasurer. Mrs. Cooper and her daughter
are to extend their trip to Savannah,
Augusta, Chattanooga and Memphis, the
early home of Mr. and Mrs. Cooper. For
many years Mr. Cooper was editor and
proprietor of the Chattanooga Advertiser,
Mrs. Cooper being associated with him in
the work. Being loyal to the Union, they
left for the North at the opening of the
war, remaining in Washington until Mem-
phis was taken by the Federal troops, when
President Lincoln appointed Mr. Cooper as
assessor of internal revenue at Memphis.
During the war Mrs. Cooper had a Bible
class of over five hundred soldiers in that
city. Mrs. Cooper and her daughter have
in charge thirty-eight free kindergartens in
San Francisco, with an annual enrollment
of over 3,500 little children, from two to
seven years of age. Over $450,000 have
been raised by Mrs. Cooper, in endowments
and otherwise, for this work, which was
organized by her over fifteen years ago.
Ex.


204
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-montnly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra, for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Late City, Utah, as
second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY NOVEMBER 1, AND 15, 1894.


[Column 1]
AN APPEAL TO WOMEN.

	THE November election on which so
much depended for the future good and
well being of Utah has come and gone, the
votes have been cast for the men nominated
to office; the winning side is very exultant
as a consequence and naturally enough made
itself hilariously jubilant at the ratification
meetings and procession on the 13th, of
this month. The most important matter
decided at the election, at least for women
who are asking for the franchise, was the
election of Delegates to the Constitutional
Convention; and indeed it does seem that
it was the more important to all the people
of the Territory. These are the men who
hold the future destiny of this glorious
mountain region in their grasp for a time
at least. What manner of men should they
be to occupy so responsible a position?
First of all honest, truthful, upright, God-
fearing men, patriotic to the heart’s core,
sound in judgment, firm in integrity to
their country’s cause, as the everlasting
hills. Men who honor womanhood, men
who are progressive in all directions that
advance the interests of the human race,
men who are above partisanship, who be-
lieve in equality and justice for all regard-
less of the conditions of sex.
	From this time forward it should be their
sacred duty to inquire into the subjects
with which they will have to deal when
they enter upon the active performance of
their labors as framers of a Constitution.
They must come prepared, or success will
not crown their efforts, strive as they may;
they owe this to the people, who have
chosen them from among their fellows, and
the country they serve, and whose interests
they are bound to sustain, by the laws they
may help to make for future use, service,
and protection of rights.
	Every daughter of Utah should be as
zealous for liberty and as proud of the
birthright upon her soil as her sons; and
should understand the obligations of her
heritage and maintain that dignity and
equality in common with her brothers,
seeking to comprehend all the grave ques-
tions at issue, that she may be fully equip-
ped for the use of the ballot, and the ad-
vantages that accrue therefrom to all those
who take part in the political questions
that agitate the general public, more par-
ticularly at a time like the present when
uncertainty and doubt seem to cause even
great men and strong men to hesitate and
fluctuate, scarce knowing what is the best
policy to pursue, or what measures—to
adopt.

[Column 2]
	There never has been a time when wo-
men need be so awakened to public duty
as the present, not only here but every-
where; it is the cry of the age, and we hear
from day to day, lo here, and lo there, what
brave women are doing in battling against
wrong.
	Then shall we, who have such grave
matters pending fall asleep, and be at ease,
leaving the molding of our own and our
children’s lives and fortunes to men alone?
Verily, No! the mother element is needed in
the new Constitution about to be made, the
womanly intuition so quick to discern, so
prophetic and so inspirational should be
brought to bear in all possible ways. It is
a pity that all the women of this fair Ter-
ritory do not stand solid for the right of
franchise as Mrs. Livermore has so aptly
and emphatically said, “I lack language in
which to express my sense of reprobation
of the course pursued by those women who
from their soft and easy homes, where they
are anchored in the love of manly husbands,
enter the arena of public life only to beat
back their sisters, who seek larger op-
portunities than suffice for themselves; who
make their own opinions and wishes the
measure of all women’s needs, and cry out
to legislatures and courts, parliaments and
congresses; ‘Hold, enough! Concede to wo-
men no more of their demands, for we have
all the rights we want.”
	But circumstances sometimes change;
women who sit in luxury and at ease now,
may at some future time need for their own
defence and protection, or mayhap for their
little ones, the right they would now fain
deny to those less fortunate.
	The women of Utah had the ballot
wrested from them without adjudication,
and no redress has ever been offered for
that wrong. It would be but a simple act
of justice for that wrong done in the past,
to restore the right of franchise now. At
any rate so far as we are concerned
individually and with the largest influence
possible to exert, we shall work, and pray
upon the affirmative.
	We are proud to believe, that Delegates
who will constitute the coming Convention
will honor the women of the State, by
bestowing upon them this precious boon
which represents so much to every citizen,
and of which not one of these Delegates
would be deprived without protest or hav-
ing recourse to the law. To us there seems
no other reasonable side to this question;
if "taxation without representation is
tyranny” then women are suffering from
that tyranny. We are living today in the
higher civilization, and the greater advanc-
ment depends as much upon women as up-
on men. The learned and great Canon
Kingsley said, "Never will women have
social equity, till they have legal equality.”
At least give the women of Utah this op-
portunity to test their fidelity to the state
they have helped to make out of the barren
desert. Victor Hugo’s prophecy is daily
coming to its fulfillment "the nineteenth
century belongs to woman.”
	Women should not lose one advantage,
but work tactfully and industriously, the
cause is worthy of the best directed and
most earnest endeavors. Lose no time in
converting by the most sublime reasoning
or persuasive eloquence all within your
reach who will lend a listening ear. Make
every strenuous effort possible to educate the
general public, circulate suffrage literature
among your neighbors and friends, Re-

[Column 3]
member even after the Constitution is
adopted by the Convention it has to be
voted upon, and if you can convince one
man, to vote right on this momentous
question, the labor will not have been in
vain.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG'S Post Office
address will be for the present at her own
residence 147. 4th, St. Salt Lake City.
	WE published in a recent issue of the
EEPONENT the Call for the second triennial
session of the National Council of Women.
This will be a very important gathering and
an event worthy of record in the history of
this nation. The assembly itself is com-
posed of great organizations, and the Presi-
dent of each of these is a Vice President of
the Council. The influence of such an as
semblage of cultured and educated women
coming from all parts, East, West, North
and South, must have immense weight,
especially when the topics to be presented
are of broad general interest. Every or-
ganization is greatly benefitted from its
connection with the Council, because its
work is brought before large audiences of
women and of men working along all lines
of advancement and progression. The
Council holds its session in Washington D.
C. and during the sessions of the Congress
of the Nation, this also gives it prestige.
The session opens on Feb. 17, 1895, and
closes on March 2nd, 1895.


OFFICIAL NOTICE.

	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society and (the secretary) of each mission
or branch not yet included in a Stake, are
hereby officially notified to carefully prepare
correct statistical and financial reports for
the current year from January 1st—1894 to
December 31st—1894. These reports must
be forwarded to the General Secretary at
the Office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City Utah, early in February
1895 or not later than the 10th, of that
month, so that a complete report of this
great organization may be ready at least ten
days before the General Conference in April
1895.
E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


A FEW RFEECTIONS.

	THEY that feared the Lord spake often
one to another and the Lord hearkened and
heard and a book of remembrance was kept,
and they are mine saith the Lord when I
shall make up my jewels.
	These sweet and cheering words often as-
sist our desires and help us to perform our
duties amidst all our frailties and em-
barrassments.
	I have just been reading the 12th, 13th,
and 14th, Chapters of Romans. Verse 11—
chapter 13 reads, “And that knowing the
time, that now it is high time to awake
out of sleep; for now is our salvation
nearer than when we believed."
	Verse 12, chapter 14, “So then every one
of us shall give account of himself to God,”
this promps us truly to awake and to try to
be faithful in all things. I appeal to my-
self and to my sisters, to regard the sacred
teachings at our recent Conferences and


other meetings of late, is it not direct to us
from the Lord?
	Our brethren truly are watchmen upon
the walls, and we as Mothers in the Relief
Society have our duties, and they are not a
few, but many, for none of us liveth unto
himself or herself and each one has a por-
tim to bear and to endure. Verse 12,
Chapter 12, gives great encouragement
to the devout; it reads, “Rejoicing in hope;
patient in tribulation; continuing instant
in prayer;” let us my sisters be instant in
prayer, but to be so we must also keep al-
ways in good works, first to sanctify these
temples of ours; and to do our duties in the 
family relation, to implant integrity and
virtue in our children; this is most essential
the whole world over, and with what
zealous care should we guard our sons and
daughters, that they may abstain from vice
and folly of every kind. Intelligence is a
stronger safeguard than ignorance. How
profitable our prayer meetings were to us in
the rise of the Church, and again is not our
very strength strengthened by prayer, our
love increased, that we can do our duty and 
fulfill the law to love our neighbors as our-
selves. Let each Relief Society every where
pray to our Heavenly Father to protect our
youth from evil, temptation and sin. Joseph
Smith the Prophet said it was the calling of
the Relief Society to suppress vice. Let
us humble ourselves in prayer and good
works, to check vice and evil in every way,
and to encourage every good and noble
principle with cheerfulness trusting in God
for He will hear the humble supplications
of the meek and pure in heart; seek wis-
dom, treasure the gems of knowledge con-
cerning the truth that God has spoken from
the heavens to the inhabitants of the earth
again in this day and age of the world.
Was there ever a people on the earth that
was so thoroughly and kindly taught the
principles of salvation and righteousness,
that happify and satisfy the mortal and im-
mortal, as that we have received, the 
Gospel of Eternal life or lives.
	My dear sisters there are many profitable
sayings in Paul’s Epistle to the Romans,
that will bear reading again and again, and
that we can apply in our every day lives.
	I will close these reflections by referring
to the song—
“Nay! speak no ill, a kindly word,
	Will never leave a sting behind;
	And O. to breath each tale we’ve heard
	Is far beneath a noble mind.”
Z. D. H. Y.
Oct. 31--1894.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C.  
	ACCORDING to a special call the Utah
Woman’s Press Club held a business meet-
ing at the office of President E. R. Shipp
on Tuesday evening, Oct. 30th, 1894, the
object being the annual election of officers.
	Most of those in office having served
but one year, were re-elected, thus making
but few changes in the list. They are now
as follows—
	Honorary President, E. B. Wells;
President, E. R. Shipp M. D., First Vice
President, Ruth M. Fox; Second Vice
President, Lydia D. Alder; Recording
Secretary, Lizzie S. Wilcox; Asst. Rec.
Secretary, Ella W. Hyde; Cor. Sec. R. B.
Pratt M. D.. Ass’t Cor. Sec., Olea Shipp.
Treasurer, C. C. R. Wells; Auditor, Phebe
C Young. Dr. E. B. Ferguson, Chairman
Program Committee,

[Column 2]
	The regular meeting of the U. W. P.
Club was held on Wednesday, Oct. 31st,
and as that is anniversary day and also
Halloween, it has been the custom to have
the regular program set aside, and a special
one prepared for the occasion. There have
been some unique and pleasing entertain-
ments in the past, but it is thought the last
one rather surpassed former efforts.
	Each member present endeavored either
by costume or symbol, to represent some
author or literary character she had chosen.
In answer to her name, she arose, and the
other members or visitors made a guess as
to the character represented, the guess be-
ing confirmed or otherwise by the senti-
ment given or the selection read.
	History, literature and fable w[-]re repre-
sented. In some cases the costumes were
original and striking, and in some in-
stances beautiful.
	The characters represented were as fol-
lows:—Dr. E. R. Shipp, Portia, in judicial
robes, where she makes her speech before
the judge, beginning “The quality of mercy
is not strained,” etc. Mrs. Ruth M. Fox,
dressed in various gaudy colors, which is
said to be characteristic of Dickens, her
author, represented Sergeant Buzfuz. Miss
Gladys Woodmansee, Hypatia, in Roman
Costume. Mrs. Ella W. Hyde adorned
with fern leaves and fern covered fan,
represented Fanny Fern. Dr. R. B. Pratt, 
dressed as a nun, read from Longfellow’s
Evangeline; and by a coincidence Mrs.
Phebe C. Young and Lizzie S. Wilcox chose
to represent Lucile as a nun, even hitting
upon the same selection for reading. But
the matter was remedied by one of the
ladies choosing another selection. Mrs. C.
C. R. Wells in white attire, represented
Wilkie Collins “Woman in White.” Mrs.
Minnie J. Snow as Mrs. Hemans, sang
very sweetly a song of that lady’s pro-
duction. Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, by a
symbol represented Browning, and recited
with much dramatic force Mrs. Browning’s
“Mother and Poet.” Mrs. Lucy A. Clark,
with powdered hair, lace cap, and imitation
snowflakes, represented Mrs. Eliza R.
Snow, with appropriate selections. Mrs.
Melissa Wilson, with white gown and flow-
ing hair represented Perdita from Shakes-
pere, “A Winter’s Tale.” Mrs. E. J.
Stevenson, with full blown roses, repre-
sented “Rose in Bloom.” Mrs. Nellie C.
Taylor gave a pleasing representation of
Lucretia Mott in her quaint and simple
Quaker garb. Miss Olea Shipp revived
pleasant memories by appearing as the
Bohemian Girl, and playing choice selec-
tions from that opera. Miss Ellis Shipp
looked picturesque in her cream-colorad
gown bedecked with birds and feathers of
brilliant hue, as she recited Longfellow’s
“Birds of Killingworth.” Miss Pearl
Russell was very sweet as Little Red Rid-
inghood and she gave a charming little
solo from that opera.
	After the character delineations, a sum-
mary of the year’s work by Mrs. L. D.
Alder showed that progress had been made
and improvement was still sought.
	The formal part of the program being
ended, refreshments and social chat ensued.
Both visitors and members felt they had
spent a pleasant and profitable evening: the
one regret being the absence, through sick-
ness, of Honorary President E. B. Wells,
whose presence contributes so much to the
success and pleasure of the meetings.
			LIZZIE S. WILCOX, Sec’y.


IN RURAL, ENGLAND.

XLIII.

	THE fact of the children’s company and
Clair Hilliard the favorite, their guest,
modified to Mr. and Mrs. Harrison the
hardship of leaving the green lanes of
England, and of the sea voyage later on;
 Clair’s brilliant conversation, his versatility
of subjects, (his slight foreign accent
making him all the more interesting) above
all his wonderful voice, that never failed to
thrill the listener, and such charms of man-
ner as are specially delightful, and what
can be more so than the magic of music.
The poet was right in saying,
“Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast,
To soften rocks or bend a knotted oak.
I’ve read that things inanimate have moved,
And as with living souls have been informed
By magic numbers and persuasive sound.”
All who have ever crossed the briny
deep, or sailed athwart the bosom of the 
restless sea, must know how rapturously
the human soul is thrilled with the soft
sweet strains divine, that move the human
heart to its very depths, and cause it
	To soar aloft on wings, of ecstacy,
	Lost in the dreams of pure felicity.
	Clair had inherited the talent of that
talian singer, who had carried captive bril-
liant and appreciative audiences wherever
she appeared in p.ublic. The only defect
Jane Harrison could find in her charming
cousin was his peculiarly, languid, Southern
manner and temperament, which to the
true-born English woman is not par ex-
cellence, in that it lacks the heroic quality
of strength so admirable in man. Day
after day and night succeeding night, Clair 
played and sung, sometimes in language
not understood, but sympathetic in rhythm
and suited to his mood, to the enraptured
listeners on board the good ship Darien.
He never wearied of the children either but
tended and watched over them with gentle
solicitude. Rob Harrison was in most re-
spects the very opposite of Clair Hilliard
strong and stalwart in figure and bearing,
and a veritable hero of battles in the proud
chivalry of knighthood, which makes a man
more attractive in the eyes of women than
tamer qualities, however excellent. He 
loved children but could not unbend to
them, and had not the adaptability that
seemed so natural to Clair.
	Another distinct type of manhood was
exemplified in Sidney Barrington, who was
as useful in his way as Clair, and these two
young men so widely different had already
become fast friends. He preached occasional
sermons not long and wearisome but plain
and scriptural, and his prayers were eloquent
with fervor and simplicity. His conver-
sation was in striking contrast to his uncle,
and the young Baronet, but fitted in deftly,
setting off their greater brilliancy to good
advantage with the grave, more serious,
and somewhat pathetic truths of everyday
life and its high duties.
	What a grand opportunity this sea voyage
was for a mind like Jane Harrison’s, and
how she feasted her soul and drank in the
variety and volume of knowledge as it fell
like clear cut diamonds from the lips of
these thorough-bred highly-cultivated men.
it stamped her soul indelibly with lofty
sentiments', that could not fail to be inherit-
ed in her posterity, though of this she
thought not, nor had the awakening come
which has since developed such far reach


[Column 1]
ing consequences. The glorious evenings
when the stately ship sailed ever onward,
the murmur of the ever restless sea, and the
silvery tones of delicious music floating
over the vast expanse of waters, the pale
moon shedding its healing, lustreless rays of
calm serenity, and the million stars set like
jewels in the firmament made a picture set
to music which was in siriking contrast to
the stirring events of her past life. But
when the ocean waves rose mountains high,
and the great ship reeled and plunged, and
the sea bounding and roaring tumultuously
as though the demons of the depths below
were exulting hilariously at the raging of
the elements, she knew no fear; it seemed
the very counterpart of the stormy and ag-
gressive years of her life when she lived at
Hilliard Castle. Now she had entered on
another phase in the wonderful drama of
earthly existence, and it is not strange that
she contemplated with inward anxiety the
destiny of the beings so much beloved who
hovered around her, and looked up to her
as though she were the keeper of their
consciences.
	Her cousin Clair's future she could not
solve; it was enveloped in doubt, he had
met many beautiful maidens, but his heart
she felt was still untouched by the magic
wand of love. Sidney her husband's
nephew (who called her Aunt Jane now,
like Anna's children) would undoubtedly
marry a sweet, angelic, Puritan girl, and
never leave the country of his adoption;
and there was Maitland too, she thought of
him almost with terror; O how Anna had
loved him, her imperious consin, and here
were his children, what would their fate be?
She sometimes longed to know, yet scarcely
dare conjecture. Her own boy, her be-
loved Conway, he would always be under
her sheltering care, and possibly follow the
profession of his father, for even now
she could preceive the drift of his boyish
pursuits tended in that direction.
	What a brave grand, true woman she
was this erst, uninteresting, orphaned, poor
clergyman's daughter.
	When the llttle party reached the New
England shore Clair could not believe his
cousin Jane really felt the joy she expressed,
his nature was so different; he had
wandered up and down and round about in
many lands, but never to think of any
place as home not even temporarily, Hil-
liard Castle was very well while his friends
were there, and he newly installed, but to go
there and live alone, and be like other
English gentlemen he could not do that.
	"Cousin Jane this is too cold a climate
and the wilderness all around is like a
desolation to me, I must have more life,
more warmth, I can't stand these Puritans,
I don't mean Sidney, he is companionable,
but even Uncle Rob is getting common-
place in this dull country, and though I
love the children (and sort of idolize my
cousin, excuse the term,) yet I'm afraid I
can't stay here long and I want to ask your
advice, which I shall prlze even more than
Uncle Rob's, because you are so proud of
the Hilliard honor, and so conscientious
in all you say and do, and I suppose I have
more claim upon you really than any living
person, as you were in my father's con-
fidence, and though he never acknowledged
me during his life, I should be glad to do
credit to the name, and there is no one to
look to but you—those musty old lawyers
in London, always eye me suspiciously,
and I have no very clear views of my
own."

[Column 2]
	This wail of Clair's was made one morn-
ing at the breakfast table, Mr. Harrison
and Sidney had gone out on horseback in
the early morning and Clair, as usual, had
come down late and out of sorts; his cousin
Jane was always very attentive and had
noticed of late his dissatisfied manner, and
therefore was not surprised that he should
express a desire to go away; to be sure she
had hoped he would become reconciled to
the new conditions, and accept the faith
which had been such an inspiration to her
and comfort to Lady Anna, but she felt it
was right he should make his own choice
after all, and replied accordingly.
	"My dear cousin whatever course you
decide upon whether to settle down here,
after winding up your affairs in England,
or to live upon the estate there, or to travel
in foreign lands until like your uncle Rob
you weary of it all, or if you feel your
mother's sunny land nearer and dearer, I
shall always hold you dear to my heart and
give you a mother's advice, for you are my
nearest relative now, and for my uncle's
sake who was my protector and my best
friend in adversity, I must strive to aid you
in upholding the family name; but before
I can say more, tell me what you long for
most in life?"
	"I think my greatest ambition at present
is to get away from here, I am doing noth-
ing, I cannot even sing, my sister Anna's
grave is a perpetual source of sorrow and a
reminder of what might have been had she
lived; I must go away—I know the busi-
ness of the estate is in need of better
management, can't we all go and live there,
it seems to me that would be best!"
	"You know Clair my husband would
never live at Hilliard Castle, and as for my-
self I am a Puritan in every sense of the
word, though not so pronounced in some
particulars as my neighbors. I am not an
aristocrat though my uncle and my grand-
father bore distinguished titles; I have the
Hilliard blood inherited from my mother,
but I have not forgotton that she was dis-
inherited for marrying a poor clergyman,
and lived and died in obsenrity."
	Clair replied "you speak bitterly cousin
and I have no reason to laud the aristocracy,
my fault was not my own, I could scarcely
have helped being born, it seems there is a
bond of sympathy between us even more
than blood, and now I plead with you to
show me what I ought to do for the estate,
to make amends for my coming unwelcome
into the word."
	"Really cousin that is too much of a
sarcasm, and you are well aware of your
sister Anna's amiability in the affair, never
arguing the question of your claims to the
heirship; you may be in ignorance of the
fact that my uncle was crossed in love,
previous to his marriage with your mother
and that it affected his whole life afterwards,
were I to tell you the whole history of the
affairs of Sir Edward your father, as they
have come to my knowledge unsought, you
would find it, "a romance in real life."
	"And cousin Jane don't you think it
right for me to know something of my
parentage more than the name and title,
uncle Rob knew Sir Edward Hilliard very
well but would never speak of him, I could
get no information from him while we were
away together, try as I might. Indeed I
have been thinking seriously of going to
Italy and looking up on my mother's side,
I only knew my grandmother; Burke and
Hemenway advised me not to hunt up my
Italian relationship, it might go against me

[Column 3]
in England they thought, especially if I
should want to enter Parliament, which I
never will, I have neither taste or inclina-
tion for it, and my education is all wrong
for that course, in fact I'm more of a
foreigner."
	"Well Clair if you decide to leave us I
perhaps ought to enlighten you somewhat
about my uncle, it might soften you
in regard to your birth and the secret of
your mother's marriage, so carefully kept
during his whole life. But here comes the
strollers we must hear of their morning ad-
ventures."
	Just then Mr. Harrison and Sidney came
in and the conversation then turned upon
Clair's leaving America very soon, Sidney
who was strongly attached to Clair regretted
it exceedingly, but Mr. Harrison thought
perhaps under the changes which seemed
imminent to the country it might be the
wisest course to pursue; he declared there
would soon be a fierce struggle between
England and America, and although Clair
was scarcely an Englishman he did not seem
to incline to the new world, "Clair is not a
warrior bold," he added "in his case it
might be better to run away before the
fight begins, for its sure to come to that,"
and said he with great emphasis "I'm
willing to die for freedom and liberty."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R.S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

JUAB STAKE.
	THE sixty second Quarterly Conference
of the Relief Society, of Juab Stake, was
held in the Nephi Tabernacle, Sep. 21st,
1894, President Mary Pitchforth presiding.
Choir sang, “The time is nigh,” etc.
Opening prayer, President Paxman.
Singing, “Let those who would be Saints
indeed,” etc. Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved.
	President Mary Pitchforth desired an in-
terest in the prayers of those present.
Spoke at some length on the storing of
grain, and also Home Industry, and said
the prophecies of the servants of God,
would surely come to pass and we did not
know the hour, therefore it behooves us to
be awake to the times, and we must sus-
tain home manufacture, read a piece from
the EXPONENT referring to the same sub-
ject rejoiced in the Gospel, wished bless-
ings upon all present.
	Counselor Hannah Jones felt that we
were going behind instead of advancing in
home-made, she had very mnch enjoyed
the wearing of home-made apparel in
years gone by, thought that we should
patronize home made goods, and although
late in the day, “let us obey the counsel of
early days,” rejoiced every day of her life
that she was associated with this people,
desired health for President Pitchforth and
her Counselor Amy Bigler.
	E. M. Udall, president of the 1st, Ward
of Nephi, represented that ward in excel-
lent condition, referred to the labors of
officers, and members, also to the storing
of grain and home manufacture, bore a
faithful testimony.
	Sang, “Yes we will gather at the river.”
 	S. A. Cazier, Counselor of the Second
Ward of Nephi, represented the ward in
good condition, said the society would be
very little without the aid of the faithful
officers, the Saints had been blessed with
unusual good crops of grain, all should
store a little of that grain away; en-
couraged home manufacture.


[Column 1]
	Sister Miranda Bryan grew stronger
every day of her life in the gospel, referred
to the storing of grain and home manufac-
ture, would be willing to show any of the
young sisters how to spin, she had very
much enjoyed the labor of spinning.
	The Young Ladies should learn how to
be good housekeepers and know how to
make their husbands and families com-
fortable, when they assumed that position
in life, prayed that the Lord would bless us
that we may be able to carry out suc-
cessfully every laudable undertaking.
	Sister Williams, president of Mona Relief
Society, represented the branch in good
condition, were doing all they could in the
storing of grain. 
	Sister Christenson, President Levan
Relief Society, reported the ward in ex-
cellent condition, referred to the storing of
grain and Home Manufacture, desired to be
faithful.
	President Pitchforth was much pleased
with the reports, and the spirit of the sis-
ters, the spirit of the times was Home In-
dustry, felt that we were all willing to obey
counsel, and do all in our power to perform
our part; gave excellent counsel to officers
and members of the society, advised all
that could to attend the General Confer-
ence, that we might partake of the bless-
ings that would be received there. Choir
sang, “O, my Father thou that dwellest.”
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Brother Charles
Sperry, had been very much pleased with
the reports, of the presidents of the differ-
ent wards, spoke well of the organization
of the sisters, did not know how the
Church could do without them; referred to
Home Manufacture, many things could be
raised here that were imported, referred to
home-spun clothing of early days, was not
ashamed of his home made apparel, could
go into any society clothed in it; did not
think we should have a famine here, but
we must be as Joseph of old and prepare
for others. 
	President Mary Pitchforth desired that 
the sisters, all that possibly could, should
subscribe for the EXPONENT and take the
only little paper that had the signs of the
times, it was only one dollar a year, and
should be well sustained. President Pax-
man rejoiced in the unity of spirit mani-
fested by the sisters that had reported, felt
thankful for that spirit, it was not so in all
places, knew that the sisters in this stake
had ever sought for counsel and had been
blessed in their efforts, spoke at length on
the storing of grain, it should be strictly at-
tended to by this people, impressed upon
our minds, the duties required of us, to pay
our fast offerings, that the favor and bless-
ings of God might rest upon us; if this was
attended to it would sustain our poor,urged
upon the Saints to observe this require-
ment; considered Home Industry of the
utmost importance, the time would come
when we would be cut off from other re-
sources we now had, then what would be-
come of us, if we had nothing to fall back
upon, said ask for home made and see that
you get it when making purchases, we
would be surprised to know how much of
home made there is here in Utah. He
felt just as sure as that we were all here
that we would be cut off from Babylon
eventually and we must prepare for it.
Spoke of the EXPONENT said let us sub-
scribe for that paper, that brings the spirit
of the times, endorsed all that had been
said, he was a supporter of home-made

[Column 2]
articles, we must all endeavor to sustain
home-made if we want the blessings of
God, the angels will smile upon us and
God will be pleased with us.
	President Paxman concluded his dis-
course by saying, “God bless you all.”
Sang, “Come, thou glorious day of
promise.” Benediction by Brother Langley
Bailey. Conference then adjourned for
three months.
	ELLEN L. GOLDSBROUGH, Stake Sec.
		SODA SPRINGS IDAHO.
Editor Womans Exponent:—
	AT Sister Lindsey’s request, I write to
inform yon of the reorganization of the
Relief Society at this place.
	On July 11th, 1894, President Julia
Lindsey Counselors Collins and Hart met
at Soda Springs to reorganize the Relief
Society. Sister Hannah Raymond, being
honorably released on account of failing
health, she had been President of the
society since June 26th, 1879. Sister Ray-
mond was eighty-one years old last March.
She has preformed the labors of President
faithfully while holding the office, and was
unanimously given a vote of thanks by all
the members of the society. Sister
Dorethea Lau was unanimously chosen as
successor to Sister Raymond, with Elizabeth
Rose First and Emma Rudd Second Coun-
selors, Louisa Horsley Secretary, Millie
Campbell Assistant Secretary and Matilda
Horsley, Treasurer.
	Yours Respectfully, 
				ELIZABETH ROSE.
		PRIMARY ORDERVILLE. 
	THE people of Orderville assembled at
the hall to witness the exhibits of the
Primary Fair which was a credit to those
who presided over that Association. It was
a grand sight to see the different specimens
 of needle work, and all kinds of fancy
work, it was surprising to see how many
things were presented at the fair with such
fine taste and was beyond anything that
was anticipated.
	There was a dress cut and made by a
little girl nine years old, that would be a
credit to older ones. There were many
beautiful things made by little hands, it
would be impossible to name them all.
There was a beautiful selection of fruit for
the time of year, and the vegetables made
a grand showing. There were no animals
but some tame rabbits which were exhibited
by Charles Hardy Carroll, and a couple of
sheep which were greatly appreciated by
the little ones. There were beautiful cakes
made by the little girls; little wagons and
other implements of agriculture. The fair
was presided over by the Presidency of the
Primary, Susannah Fackrell. President;
Eliza Fackrell, First Counselor; Kezia
Esplim, Second Counselor; C. A. Carroll,
Secretary. With a Committee of Arrange-
ments who were Amelia S. Carroll, Libbie
Fackrell, Annie E. Fackrell, who were a
great help in arranging the things to ad-
vantage. 
			CLARISSA WILHELM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


JEWISH WOMEN.

	The latest accession to the membership
of the National Council of Women of the
United States is a valuable one though it is
a very young organization.


The National Council of Jewish Women
was indirectly the outgrowth of the great
Congress of Representative Women in the
Columbian year but it has already made
good progress and can be said to be truly of
national scope, judging not only by the
territory in which it has officers but by the
value of the names upon its long official
list. Among them are those already known-
in both literary and philanthropic work, as
well as probably in the work of their own
church.
	But the National Council of Jewish Wo-
men, while it is certainly an organization
for the furtherance of its own religious
work, does not confine itself to that in its
statement of purpose as set forth in its own
Constitution, Article II, as follows,
	“The purposes of this organization are:
To bring about closer relations among
Jewish Women, to furnish by an organic
union a medium of communication and a
means of prosecuting work of common
interest, to further united efforts in behalf of
Judaism by supplying means of study, and
in behalf of the work of social reform by
the application of the best philanthropic
thought.”
	It can readily be seen that if. (as has al-
ready been proven to the satisfaction of the
distinctly religious organizations in mem-
bership in the Council), such a grand union
of associations as is the National Council of
Women, advances the interest of each,
then this new Member, which is equally
devoted to religion, philanthropy and the
furtherance of true fellowship among its
constituency, will certainly find its
own hands held up in all its own efforts
in the directions in which it has
begun its work—and the National Council
feels itself strengthened by the accession to
its membership of these earnest Jewish
women with their memories and traditions
reaching back to the time when Miriam
sang the song for the deliverance of her
people and Deborah prophesied their
triumphs, and herself led them to victory.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.


DR. HELMHOLTZ, THE GERMAN
		SCIENTIST.

	Dr. Hermann Ludwig Ferdinand
von Heumhoitz, the celebrated German
scientist, the searcher in physics and
physiology, the acknowledged Edison of
the Old World, and the inventor of a score
of instruments which have revolutionized
the surgery of the eye, died recently at
Berlin.
	Helmholtz was born in Potsdam August
31, 1821, and at the age of seventeen en-
tered the Royal Military School in Berlin
and studied medicine there until 1842.
	Professor Helmholtz holds a high place
in medical and scientific circles in Germany
and is famous for his investigations in
optics, acoustics and electricity, which have
established these sciences on a new basis.
The ophthalmoscope is his invention, and
he was regarded as the founder of modern
eye surgery.
	For several years Herr Helmholtz had
devoted himself to the study of electricity,
and his work in this direction was equally
as important as his work in other sciences.
That he was held in the highest esteem by
scientists the world over was shown by the
statement made by a member of the French
Academy during a discussion which in-
volved Professor Helmholtz’s admission to


foreign membership in that body. “You
will place yourselves in the worst light be-
fore the world,” said the Frenchman, “if
you refuse to admit Helmholtz, the fore-
most and greatest naturalist of the age;
nothing is wanting to his glory, but he is
wanting to ours.” Dr. Helmholtz made a 
visit to this country last summer and took
part in the Electrical Congress at the
World’s Fair. On his way home from
Chicago he remained a few days in New
York and delivered an interesting lecture
at the College of Physicians and Surgeons
on ophthalmology
	As an author Professor Helmholtz was
voluminous. His great work which gave
him fame was On the Conservation of
Forces, issued in 1847. Other works were
Manual of Physiological Optics and Theory
of the Impressions of Sound. His Popular 
Lectures on Scientific Subjects, translated
into English by Dr. E. Atkinson, were 
published in London in 1873, and his work
on Sensations of Tone as a Physiological
Basis for the Theory of Music, translated
from the Third German edition by Alexan-
der J. Ellis, appeared in 1875. Professor
Helmholtz also contributed to scientific
journals accounts of many of his experi-
ments in acoustics, optics and electricity.
On December 1st, 1873, the Copley medal
of the Royal Society of London was
awarded to him in recognition of his emi-
nent services to science. More than 120
scientific papers of his have been read be-
fore the Royal Society. In 1883 the Ger-
man Emperor acknowledged the great ser-
vices of Helmholtz by issuing a decree
raising him to “the status of nobility.”
					SELECTED.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SUFFRAGE FIGHT REOPENED.

	THE fall campaign of the Woman Suf-
fragists of New York was opened Thursday
Evening October 4th, by a meeting at No.
4 Lexington avenue. Lillie Devereux
Blake, the president, was in the chair, in-
troduced Mrs. Pitblado, who read a paper,
the subject of which she said was “Not
Things, but Women,” a perversion of the
World’s Fair motto, “Not Things but Men.”
In the reading Mrs. Pitblado paid tributes
to all the great women of the past and
present, telling in what particular walks of
life they had distinguished themselves.
She dwelt particularly upon the women of
this country, and gave some sketches of the
women who were actively interested in the
World’s Fair work.
	It remained for Lillie Devereux Blake to
make the sensation of the evening by her
telling speech on the action of the mem-
bers of the Constitutional Convention on
the question of Woman’s Suffrage. She
began by saying:—
		THEY WERE HOPEFUL.
	“When the last meeting was held in
these rooms in June we all bade each other
goodby with hopeful hearts, for we all felt
certain that we would have to hold but one
more meeting, and that would be for the
purpose of adjourning forever. We felt
that the cause for which we had worked so
earnestly would be successful, and that we
would henceforth be on an equality with
men, and have the right to cast our vote in
the affairs of the State.
	“Alas, we were mistaken! Our cause
was defeated, but not lost.
	“Do not believe but we shall yet succeed,
and we shall fight until we win. We will

[Column 2]
now carry this petition to the Legislature 
and there we are sure to win a victory. I 
have here petitions which I want you all to
take home and send among your friends
that name upon name may be added to the
hundreds of thousands already sent.
	"As soon as the measure had been ad-
versely voted on by the majority of the
members of the Convention the newsboys
of Albany run through the streets crying
out, “Woman’s suffrage murdered!” and,
my friends, it was murdered, it never died
a natural death. It was murdered by Elihu
Root and Joseph Choate.
		SCORED ELIHU ROOT.
	“When Elihu Root made his speech
against woman suffrage he asked the mem-
bers of the Convention if they wanted to
put the ballot in the weak and nervous arms
of women He could say nothing against
the cause, for there was nothing to say; he
only talked and talked and repeated his
question about the weak, nervous arms of
women. I was not aware before that it re-
quired physically strong arms to lift the
folded ballot and deposit it in the box.
	“I wondered if we had all been women
of the iron jaw sort if he would have
thought that a reason for giving us the
right of the ballot. Although we had the
best men of both parties with us, we were
defeated.
	‘‘The majority of those who voted
against us were republicans, while the
democrats stood by us nobly. The majority
of the convention was republican. We
have been asked as an association to help
defeat a certain party in this town. We
are good enough to help defeat men and
measures, but not good enough to help
elect them.
	“Now, I want to say right here, that we
are not going to work against any party.
If we work for any party, it will be for the
one that worked for us.
	Mrs. Blake read a set of resolutions offer-
ing a vote of thanks to the members of the
Convention who voted for and spoke in
favor of woman suffrage.—New York
Herald.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Countess of Aberdeen, during her
recent visit to Halifax gave an “At Home”
and garden party on the magnificent
grounds of the official residence of the Ad-
miral commanding the British squadron in
North American waters. It was the most
brilliant and successful affair of the kind
ever held there. The feature of the func-
tion was the entire absence of wines and
liquors. This is the first time in Canadian
history that the wife of the Governor-Gen-
eral has held a reception without dispensing
liquors, and marks a new era in Canadian
high social life.—Ex.
	FANNITZA ABDUE SULTANA NALIDE is
a fine-looking girl from Beyrout, now
staying at a quiet residence in Brooklyn,
She is the cousin of the wealthiest Arab in
that far-off city, and is known among her
countrymen as “the Syrian princess.” On
the books at Harvard she will be entered as
Miss Alice Azeez, and her object in coming
to this country is manifold. She wishes to
obtain educational honors both here and in
England, and while in America will study
the government, the people, and occidental
methods of doing things. Having done so,
she will return to Syria, where she will
found a monument to the memory of her


father. Her family has for centuries been
a ruling force in the Orient. Miss Azeez
though only 19 years of age, has mastered
the Arabian, Assyrian, Grecian, Latin,
French, German and English languages.
Specimens of her needlework adorn the
shelves of the Metropolitan Museum of
Art, in New York City, and the Peabody
Museum, at Cambridge, Mass.
	SENATOR SCOTT, of Iola, in his Register
pays the following eloquent and merited
tribute to Mrs. Chapman-Catt, one of the
most brilliant exponents of the principle
of woman suffrage.
	We didn’t report Mrs. Catt’s speech last
week simply because we did’nt want to
mention it the same week with the others.
It was a magnificent speech, the strongest
most entertaining and logical appeal for
equal suffrage ever made in Iola. And it
was so choicely worded, so smoothly and
eloquently delivered that her hearers were
charmed as well as instructed and con-
vinced. The speech was full of good
points, but the one that struck us as par-
ticularly well taken was the proposition that
if there is to be any restriction placed on
suffrage, it should begin at the bottom. “If
you don’t want foreign women to vote,
then don’t let foreign men vote. You will
get the best government when you let the
good, the patriotic and the educated wo-
men come to the aid of the good, the
patriotic and the educated men.” We are
sure that if a motion had been put to the
audience that Mrs. Catt be granted the
right of suffrage, it would have carried by
a large majority.—Ex.


OBITUARY.

	DIED at Manti, Oct. 22nd, 1894. Sister Annie
D. Westenskow. Deceased was born at Falster,
Denmark, she embraced the gospel in the year
1863 and emigrated to Utah the same year. She
leaves eight children to mourn her loss.
	She has been associated with the Relief Society
since its first organization, and held office as
Teacher, and Treasurer for ten years. She was
a true and faithful Latter-day Saint, and beloved
by all who knew her; bnt has now gone beyond
the veil to mingle with relatives and friends who
have gone before, and to wear the crown in store
for the righteous.
						A. SORENSON, Sec.


Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed,
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
		Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

R .K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

