[Vol11 | September 1924 | Sequence: 12b | Category: Guide | Title: Social Service - Problems of Behavior]

LESSON IV

Social Service

(Fourth week in November)

PROBLEMS OF BEHAVIOR

Any group of individuals living together measure each other's conduct by the accepted standard of the group. If an individual violates the standard, he suffers some sort of punishment. If the breach is a minor one, the penalty imposed on him may be merely a vaguely expressed disapproval or it may be a definite social ostracism. If his offense is a grave one, violating standards that have been crystallized and written on the statutes, his penalty is likely to be the disagreeable one of court action, fines or imprisonment, and the attending unpleasant publicity.

It is not the purpose of this discussion to study the various standards of conduct, nor the statutes and methods by which the courts and penal institutions operate to punish offenders. The subject for consideration is that of conduct itself—of the elements that control behavior and the factors that lead to anti-social conduct and to subsequent social disapproval or actual conflict with the law.

The understanding of the factors that control is still limited. There are instances of flagrant misconduct that defy the theories of sociologists and students of behavior. It is not possible to determine what causes are responsible for every case of disapproved conduct.

However, a contemplation of the factors that control conduct and the processes by which an individual is made aware of the social standards, reveals some of the causes of normal and abnormal behavior.

The social factors that influence are many. The standard of the home, where first principles of social relationship are absorbed, is perhaps the most fundamental factor. In the child's association with his brothers or sisters he learns something of fraternity, and of the need to "give and take." In his relationship with his parents, he learns the lesson of subordination—to modify or subject his own desires at the request or advice of his elders.

The neighborhood, too, gives him early instruction in conduct. He learns "rowdy-ism" if that is the nature of his playfellows; and gentle, polite manners if that is the mode of his group. In the school he learns much regarding group conduct, and soon suffers penalties if he violates the schoolroom code. The school, too, introduces him to the world of legend, literature and history, and this insight into his cultural heritage makes him aware of the traits that mankind loves and the characteristics that are generally disapproved.

From his religious training, he learns many precepts of moral conduct, and he often creates, as a result of a spiritual influence, many high and lofty ideals which guide his course through life.

If the home and neighborhood and school and church, all of which are recognized as important controlling factors of conduct, have an opportunity to influence an individual in a wholesome way, it is natural to expect this training to produce exemplary citizens. Likewise, it would not be surprising if a child, who because of force of circumstances does not receive his early instructions in conduct in a wholesome environment and who is taught little of the cultural and spiritual standards of his community, should later have serious conflicts with society, with its Standards, and with the law.

But observation shows that there is something more than social influences that control conduct. Even where influences are desirable, behavior problems often appear. The manner in which an individual reacts to this process of social education, controls, or "conditions," his future conduct. If he is made to