INTERESTING TRIP SOUTH.

	IN company with Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, President of the Relief Society,
we left Salt Lake City, Wednesday morn-
ing Sep. 12th ult., on the Union Pacific
Rail Road, on a trip through some of the
Southern counties in the interest of Wo-
men's Organizations. Arriving at Milford
we found a carriage in waiting and dear
Sister Lucinda Howd, President of the
Beaver Stake Relief Society, who had come
all the way from Beaver (in a high wind) to
welcome us, and accompany us on our
journey. We lost no time in stepping from
the train into the carriage, and were soon
on our way, it was a beautiful moonlight
evening but the wind was blowing a furious
gale; we arrived safe at Brother McKnight's
at Minersville about 10 p. m. and found a
warm welcome, from Brother and Sister
McKnight and supper prepared.
	At ten, the following morning Sep. 13,
we attended a meeting of the Relief Society.
Sister Lydia McKnight presiding in the
absence of the President Sister Susan Rob-
erts, whose mother was so ill she could not
leave her. At this meeting there were
some veteran brothers and sisters among
them, Brother Henry Rollins and wife
and Sister Mary E. Lightner, these were
old aquaintances of ours particularly of Sis-
ter Zina who had known them in Kirtland.
Brother William Wood who leads the choir
there, was also a veteran, had known
Joseph the prophet in Nauvoo. Some very
interesting testimonies concerning the
Prophet were borne by these brethren and
sisters who had been intimately acquainted
with him.
	Leaving Minersville early in the after-
noon we reached Beaver in good time and
were driven to the residence of the Presi-
dent of the Stake C. M. White. Several
sisters, some we had never met before, had
gathered there to meet us, and among
them one particularly dear old friend Sister
Ruth W. Tyler. It is needless to say we
were feasted, but we were everywhere we
went, and the good feeling manifest to-
wards us at all times and in all places was
very gratifying except that we felt un-
worthy of so much attention.
	Friday morning September 14, the Re-
lief Society Conference, began in the Meet-
ing House, Mrs. Lucinda Howd presiding.
Considerable pains had been taken before-
hand with the choir under the manage-
ment of Brother William Bickley, and the
music was excellent, which always adds
very much to the enjoyment of the services.
The stands were beautifully decorated with

[Column 2]
flowers and the sweet perfume was very
delightful. There was a good attendance
although it was harvest time and conse-
quently not many of the brethren could
leave the fields, and some sisters were de-
tained to cook for the harvesters, as is in-
variably the case in farming localities at
this season of the year, although afternoon
and evening meetings were very full. The
reports from wards were very satisfactory,
Beaver City has a flourishing Society, Ruth
W. Tyler, President; the Society has a
house large enough for the regular meet-
ings and is well fitted up, and also a granary
and some land and other property. It is a
great satisfaction to see the several branches
of the Society prospering as they are in
Zion. It is a good omen, and a great credit
to the active workers and a blessing to all
Israel.
	Friday night we were at Brother and Sis-
ter Bickley's, who gave a musicale as an ex-
pression of their esteem and good will,
(notice of the affair was published last
month) the evening was very enjoyable.
Saturday was the Primary Conference
which was very pleasing, Mrs. Mary E.
Murdock presiding. In the evening there
was a general meeting very numerously at-
tended and we returned home with Brother
and Sister Tyler and had a very pleasant
time, listening to Sister Zina and our host
and hostess, talking over scenes and inci-
dents of the early days in the Church in
Kirtland and Missouri. Brother Tyler was
also a member of the Mormon Battalion of
which he wrote and published the History,
a few years ago.
	On Sunday morning we went with
Brother Bickley and visited the Sunday
School in the various departments and
listened to some exercises, then repaired to
the meeting house where the children and
teachers also all the higher classes of the
young people came together, and we had
the opportunity of speaking to them upon
the good work in which they are making
great progress. It is always a source of
satisfaction in visiting the different Stakes
of Zion to see what interest is manifested
everywhere in the Sabbath Schools, and is
certainly a favorable indication for the
future of Zion.
	We attended the regular service in the
meeting house in the afternoon, and by
special request of the presiding authorities
we each of us spoke a short time from the
stand.
	At the close of meeting we accompanied
Sister Sarah M. Dell to her lovely home.
Sister Dell was well and favorably known to
the Latter-day Saints formerly in Kirtland
and Nauvoo, by her maiden name Sarah
Milliken. She was associated with the
Prophets family in early days and also con-
nected by marriage, her brother Arthur
Milliken married Lucy Smith, sister of the
Prophet. Sister Zina had been very
intimately acquainted with Sister Dell in
Kirtland when they were both young
ladies, and the reminiscenses were many
and rather pathetic. Sister Dell is one of
the most able and useful women in Beaver
County, is influential and interested in all
lines of progress and enlightenment, and
lends her aid in all directions for the ad-
vancement of every good cause. Although
she has reached four score years, she is re-
markably well-preserved and there is no ap-
parent failure in any respect, except per-
haps she cannot do quite so much actual
work.

[Column 3]
	In the evening there was a Young
Ladies Meeting, though all were invited to
come and there was a very large and in-
spiring congregation.
	Monday morning at 10 a. m. the Conven-
tion of the Beaver W. S. A. was held.
The stands were elaborately decorated,
with flowers, the suffrage color, (yellow)
predominating, the association has a hand-
some flag with the two stars representing
Wyoming and Colorado, on the deep blue,
and Utah just faintly seen in the distance,
but they are not by any means fearful that
Utah will not shine in the galaxy of in-
dependent states with equal suffrage. The
ladies came wearing their yellow ribbons,
and not lacking in mental talent, or a
knowledge of the subject in which such a
deep interest is taken by the Association.
One pleasing feature of the meeting was
the original songs, written for their own
use, one of them we publish in this issue
composed by Sarah E. Maeser, President of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of Beaver Stake.
Music by William Bickley, who has also
written one or two himself and who seems
to take as much interest in woman suffrage
as the ladies do themselves. The brethren
there are good staunch supporters of the
suffrage movement, which makes it so much
easier and more interesting for the Associa-
tion.
	The address of welcome by the President
Mrs. C. M. White was worthy of a college
graduate, it was a sort of surprise, as we
had not realized that Beaver was so far
ahead in suffrage work, though we knew
by the delegate who had attended the Ter-
ritorial Conventions, that they were mak-
ing rapid progress in this direction. We
really felt rather delicate about speaking be-
fore a convention that seemed to have so
many able speakers among their own num-
ber.
	The County officers are all well-qualified
for their duties and the President is un-
doubtedly a real leader. Mrs. White pre-
sided with dignity and is up in Par-
liamentary rules. We could not but feel
that Beaver Co. was well-equipped for the
necessary work preparatory for the fran-
chise. Possibly we may have minutes of
this Convention and of many of the meet-
ings held during our journey, sent for pub-
lication and therefore it is only needful to
make brief mention.
	In the afternoon the W. S. A. gave an
entertainment in the Relief Society Hall
with a regular program, Mrs. C. M. White
in the chair. The affair was quite elaborate,
and the program was a very instructive as
well as an entertaining one. The Hall was
profusely decorated with flags, flowers and
banners, and the large pictures of the
two great leaders of the National W. S. A.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B.
Anthony were hung in conspicuous places,
and the noble work of these women, as also
the late lamented Lucy Stone (always
reverentially mentioned) were often alluded
to by the speakers.
	Monday evening there was a meeting of
the Young Ladies Association of Beaver.
It was a beautiful sight to see the hall well
filled with young girls and young mothers,
all engaged in mutual improvement and in
spiritual growth and development, it is a
positive proof of the advancement of the
youth of Zion, for as women are, men are,
in a large degree, and society everywhere
is judged by the women of the community.
Many testimonies were borne and the work


of the Guide class favorably reported up-
on. At the close of the meeting Sister
Zina spoke in the gift of tongues with great
power, and the Holy Ghost thrilling the
entire audience. Many were present who
had never before heard the gift exercised,
and expressed great joy in being privileged
to hear it and to realize the spirit manifestly
attending its expression.
	Monday night we stayed at Brother J. R.
Murdock’s, Brother Murdock was absent
from home having gone to Salt Lake City
to attend the Republican Convention. We
had a most enjoyable time during our stay
in Beaver and were very hospitably treated 
by the brethren and sisters, for whom there
was so little we could do, however we
visited the sick and were much blest in do-
ing so, and we sought to give comforting
words to all that were in trouble and in
sorrow. One afternoon between meetings
Bishop Mumford took us in his carriage out
to Ft. Cameron, or what was once the
military station of that name.
	The “Post” is deserted now, and the
large buildings formerly used as Barracks
and Hospital, officers dwellings, and
Headquarters of the Army stationed there,
are all deserted and show plainly that the
place is uninhabited. One old couple live
there rent free to take charge of the
property, the groves are much frequented
as pleasure resorts during the summer
season, and this seems the only practical
use the once flourishing grounds can serve 
at present. One cannot help feeling what
a serious mistake the Government has
made in expending money to no real pur-
pose at Beaver and elsewhere in Utah.
	Tuesday morning September 18th, we
left Beaver for Parowan going by way of
Buckhorn Springs, Brother Harris of Beaver
driving, accompanied by his wife; we
lunched at Brother Ward’s at Buckhorn
Springs and after the horses were fed and
rested we continued on, arriving towards
evening at Parowan, where we were
hospitably entertained at Bishop Adams. 
	Wednesday the 19th, we attended two
meetings at Parowan and after the after-
noon meeting started in company with Sis-
ter Mary Ann Lunt for Cedar City. On
our way we called to see Almira Johnson
Barton, a veteran of the days of Kirtland.
She expressed great joy at seeing us and
was anxious we should stay and visit with
her, but the carriage was waiting and we
were expected at Cedar City that evening
and had promised to take supper at Sum- 
mit on our way. It was dark when we
arrived at Brother Dalley’s at Summit, but
a warm supper and a warmer welcome was
ready and we fully enjoyed the pleasant 
visit of about an hour, when we bade those
dear friends good-bye promising to have a
meeting there on our return trip. About
ten o’clock we drove into Cedar City to the
residence of Brother and Sister R. R.
Birkbeck receiving the most cordial welcome
from these dear old friends. We remained
in Cedar City two days meeting with the
Relief Society, the Young Ladies’ and the
Primary, and we had very interesting
meetings, the organizations all in good
working order and a spirit of love and
union prevailing. We spent some of the
time visiting the sick, and renewing old
acquaintances as we met with the people in
public and in private. The sisters spared no
pains in entertaining us, and we thoroughly
enjoyed our visit spiritually as well as
temporally. President Jones fitted up a

[column 2]
conveyance and furnished a driver to take
us on to Bellevue, and on Saturday morn-
ing, Sep. 22nd, we started for St. George;
the weather was exceptionally fine and the
ride was enjoyable, though the roads are
very rough. We reached Bellevue in time
for dinner, and drove to the Gates House
formerly occupied by the late Elder Jacob
Gates,now the residence of his son Welling-
ton, who was absent from home, but Mrs.
Gates made us very welcome and showed us
every attention. Here we saw the first
real Dixie vineyard, and the grapes were
being picked and dried in very large
quantities; how luscious they looked, and
sweet to the taste; after resting awhile and
dining sumptously with the most delicious
frnits for dessert we proceeded on our journey,
but before going very far we met Brother
Windsor coming with a light conveyance
from St. George to take us in charge. We
stepped from one carriage to the other, and
bade good day to Brother Birkbeck and
Brother Walker who had come with us
from Cedar City and drove on towards
Leeds; Brother Windsor made our journey
very pleasant by telling us much that was
interesting concerning the Southern country
and their labors in that vicinity, also con-
cerning the Temple, and the work which
had been done since its completion and
dedication. The scenery during the drive
was enchanting, the gorgeous red moun-
tains flaming high up on either side, and
the bright sunshine like a brilliant glory of
light and splendor is past all description.
	It was dark and late when we came to
Leeds, but we found the President of the
Relief Society, Sister Martha Wilkinson,
who gladly entertained us for the night.
Here as at Bellevue were luxuriant vine-
yards and women busy drying and caring
for the fruit
	After breakfasting with Sister Wilkinson
next morning, we proceeded on our way
towards St. George passing through Har-
risburg and Washington, the morning was
delightful and the whole landscape charm-
ing, and Brother Windsor pointed out the
cotton farm and meadow lands, and told
us of the hard work that had been done in
those once desolate valleys to make them
“blossom as the rose.” and of the new
dam that had put into the Virgen river at
such great expense, which would convert
hundreds of acres of arid land into fruitful
fields. The long and dangerous dugway of
which one hears so much is indeed some-
thing like a terror to the timid traveler, but
when one reflects that everything which
has made St. George habitable, and when
one sees the comfortable homes and
furnishings and that all had been hauled over
these dangerous roads, one must admire the
industry and perseverance and the indomi-
table energy of the people who have built
up Southern Utah.
	As one nears St. George and looks down
into that lovely valley from the winding
hills, and beholds the beautiful white
Temple standing in the centre as though it
were “let down from heaven,” what
reverent emotions fill the soul. How won-
derful it all seems to those who know the
history of this people. St. George is in-
deed very beautiful seen from the hill-tops,
and this was a season when the trees and
vines were laden with fruit, and the picture
of this city in the valley, a few years since
silent and solitary, made such an impression
upon the writer as can never be effaced.
		[To be Continued.]


