			BEAVER STAKE.
	MINUTES of Relief Society Conference
of Beaver Stake held in Beaver City, Sep.
14th, 1894. Conference called to order by
President Lucinda Howd. Singing, “Now
let us rejoice, etc. Prayer by Patriarch
Daniel Tyler. Singing, Come all ye Saints
of Zion, etc. President Howd was pleased
to meet with the sisters in conference.
Thought that nothing but sickness ought
to keep us at home on these occasions,
was also pleased to announce that President
Zina D. Young and Sister E. B. Wells were
with us and would give us good instruc-
tions. Minutes of previous conference
read and approved. President R. W.
Tyler of Beaver reported the Relief Society
of this place as in good condition financially
and spiritually. There are about one hun-
dred and seventy members. Hold meet-
ings three times a month and we are study-
ing the Lectures on Faith in the Doc. &.
Cov. We are united in our labors and are
trying to perform our duties. President
Mary Davis reported the Relief Society of
Greenville Ward as being united in their
labors. Counselor Lydia McKnight re-
ported the Relief Society of Minersviile.
We try to feed the hungry and clothe the
naked. We rejoice in the gospel and the
testimonies of each other and have good
times in our meetings.
	President Zina D. H. Young then ad-
dressed the sisters in a very affectionate and
impressive manner. "I am thankful to see
your faces once more. We are all de-
pendent on our Heavenly Father for as-
sistance in all our labors.” Explained how
we are sanctified and justified through
keeping the whole law of Christ. Faith is
our guiding star and we should live for it.
Spoke of her visit to Canada and of the
gifts and blessings of the gospel enjoyed by


[Column 1]
the sisters there obtained by them through
fasting and prayer. Spoke on the proper
training of children, the benefits of home-
industries, especially of the manufacture of
silk, and the hygiene of dress. Said if we had 
observed the counsel of President Brigham
Young on this latter subject we would now
lead the world in these mattess. “We are
blessed above all other people on the face
of the earth and we should so live in the
performance of all our duties that we may
escape the snares of the evil one.”
	Sister E. B. Wells said the sisters were a
great help in all the important labors in the 
church. Spoke at some length on our ex-
hibits at the World’s Fair, said they were
an object lesson to the whole world. Re-
ferred to the manufacture of straw goods
and thought it might be made a great in-
dustry. “Our young people should be
taught to respect and honor the aged, and
to strive for a testimony for themselves.
If we have faith and perform our duties we
can receive every gift and blessing of the 
gospel necessary for our salvation.”
	President C. D. White would have liked
to have seen every sister in the stake at the
meeting to hear the instruction that had
been given. Appreciated very much the
labors of the Relief Society. “There are 
no better organizations, or none doing bet-
ter work than they. Thousands of bushels
of grain will be raised this year that would
not have been had not the sisters furnished
the seed. The church and kingdom of
God would be a failure without the sisters,
and the time is near when they will be
recognized as a great power in the earth.”
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. sing-
ing, “I saw a mighty angel fly.” Benedic-
tion by Bishop George Mumford.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Conference called
to order by President Howd. Singing,
“We thank thee O God, ”etc. Prayer by
Elder Robert Stoney. Singing, “O God 
our help,” etc.
	Stake Counselor S. M. Dell gave a few
words of counsel and bore testimony. The
statistical and financial report of the stake
for the year ending Dec. 31, 1893, was
read, showing a total cash disbursement of
$188.25; Property disbursed $168.63.
On Hand Cash, $160.65; Property, $187.82;
Real Estate, $3,670. Wheat 1194 bushels
17 pounds.
	Stake Counselor Lydia White testified to
the truth and her appreciation of the coun-
sel of the sisters. “Counselor Mary A.
White said: Relief Society women should
be exemplary in their lives as more is expected
of them than of other women. We should
exercise humility and diligence and strive
to overcome our weaknesses.”
	Sister M. E. Murdock:—“The allurements
of the world are great and we need the
"still small voice" to prompt us that we 
may escape them. Teach our children, boys
as well as girls, the priceless value of
chastity and as parents associate more with
our young people to encourage and lead
them in the right way.” The minutes of
the last annual meeting of the Beaver
Ward Relief Society were read by the
Secretary of that association, Sister Alice
Tanner.
	President Zina Young again addressed
the conference. “When the Relief Society
was first organized by the Prophet he said
the sisters could have no idea of the great-
ness of their work. Joseph turned the key
for women and their sphere has been widen-
ing ever since until now their influence and
power are felt all over the world. The sun

[Column 2]
never sets upon the Relief Society.
That is it extends more than half way
around the globe.” Spoke of the impor-
tance and sacredness of the work in the
Temples. “The spirit of Elijah is working
in the hearts of the people, even those who
are not of us, to hunt up their records that
the work in the Temples may go on.
Obedience and humility brings to us the
grandest knowledge on earth and opens the
door of Heaven to us. We can feel the
presence of angels even in our amusements
if they are conducted aright. Knowledge
is power and we need to learn the laws of
life and health so we can do without doc-
tors.” Gave instructions with regard to
clothing the dead and exhorted the sisters
to sustain the EXPONENT.
	Sister E. B. Wells also spoke of Temple
work. "There is, in the Temple, a heavenly
influence so exalting and inspiring that one
seems to be near the other shore. We
ought to be willing to sacrifice our worldly
interests once in a while to do some of this
great work.” Spoke of the importance of
education and the good we can do with it
if we only know how to use it. Re-
ferred to the great opportunities af-
forded by the World’s Fair to remove prej-
udice and error with regard to the great
work of the Latter-days. “In establishing
our home industries we hope to pay our
employees enough to honorably sustain
themselves.” Advised the mothers to keep
their girls at home and not expose them to
the dangers and temptation of city life.
“Use all the influence we possess to refine
and elevate ourselves and those around us.”
Spoke of the sisters store and asked the
sisters to help sustain it.
	Bishop Mumford was pleased with the
counsel that had been given and thought
the mothers in Israel the most important
part of the community,said I would not want
to be a bishop if I could not have the help
of the Relief Society. Exhorted the
mothers to teach their children the principles
of repentance and baptism that they might
better understand them when they come to
be baptized. Conference adjourned until
Saturday 10 a. m. Singing, “Lord dismiss
us.” Benediction by Elder Frank Harris.
	SATURDAY MORNING:—Conference called
to order by President Howd. After the
opening exercises President R. W. Tyler
testified to this being the work of the Lord
and He would give us knowledge intelligence
and strength if we were faithful to our trust.
	President Zina D. H. Young greeted the
sisters with words of love. “The greatness
and power in Israel consists in the people
being taught correct principles, and the
capacity the people have of self government.
Gave instructions on the order to be ob-
served in our organizations because we
want to enjoy the same spirit that prevails
in Heaven where obedience and order are
the first laws.” Exhorted the sisters to be
faithful to their duties particularly in the
matter of family prayer, and especially
those who have no husbands and are them-
selves heads of families, that a bond of
union and strength might be around them
and their children taught by precept and
and example, especially the latter, the way
of eternal life. President Howd spoke on
the mission of the sisters, their various
duties in the Relief Society and also in
their families. “The welfare and future
greatness of our children depend in a great
measure on the training they receive from
the mothers, hence we cannot be too pains-

[Column 3]
taking and conscientous in our teaching and-
examples. Pray for wisdom and knowl-
edge and our Heavenly Father will give
them to us.”
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke very
beautifully on the principle of obedience.
“It is only throught his principle we receive
all the gifts and blessings of the gospel.
The National Council of women will be
held in Washington next February and we
must make a good representation there.
It was the mind of our leading brethren
that we become a part of these great coun-
cils of women and it is a great advantage
to us and our money is not thrown away
that goes to pay our membership in those
Councils.”
	Sister Mary McDonough a sister from
Emery County; “I received the first gospel
sermon in this house and I have been faith-
ful to the work ever since. As I am about
to leave for my distant home and may
never see your faces again I wish to leave
this testimony with you.” The general and
stake officers were presented to the con-
ference and unanimously sustained. Bishop
Mumford gave further instructions to the
mothers with regard to the training of
children. President Zina Young blessed
the sisters and asked God to strengthen us
and help us to live unitedly. Conference
adjourned for six months. Singing, “Glory
to God on high,” etc. Benediction by
Patriarch D. Tyler.
	Thus closed the best and most interesting
Relief Society Conference ever held in
Beaver Stake. We appreciate very much
the counsel and instructions of our beloved
President Aunt Zina and her co-laborer Sis-
ter Wells and our prayers go with them that
may be blessed in their labors of love and
return in safety to their homes.
			LOUISSA JONES, Stake Sec.


