			SALT LAKE STAKE.
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake convened in
the Assembly Hall Sept. 21st, 1894.
President M. I. Horne presiding. On the
stand with the President were her Aids,
Julia C. Howe and Lydia D. Alder and
other ladies. Meeting opened with sing-
ing, “O happy souls who pray,” etc.
Prayer by Sister Julia Pack. Singing, “For
the strength of the hills we bless Thee.”
Minutes of previous conference (morning
session) read and approved. Roll called,
thirty-nine branches being represented,
leaving eight without representation.
	President Horne gave special instruction
in regard to the time and manner of making
out reports. Spoke at some length on the
subject of Home Industry, and the impor-
tance of patronizing the Woman’s Store, felt
hopeful of its being a success The pro-
ceeds from the excursion had helped it
wonderfully, felt to thank all those who had
assisted in getting up the excursion said it
had been a success socially and financially,
gave a report of the same. Spoke of the
evils of fault-finding and pointed out the
duties resting upon us, dwelling especially
on the importance of mothers watching over
their children and guarding them from the
vices and evils that are so prevalent.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder was pleased with
the report that had been given of the ex-
cursion. Spoke chiefly on Home Industry
and the Woman’s Store. Exhorted the
sisters to live as saints of God, because we
take with us the record we make in this
life.
	Sister Julia C. Howe was pleased with
the timely advice that had been given,
spoke of the evil results of being negligent
in our duties, continued the subject of
Home Industry and gave good advice in
regard to the care of children.
	Sister Mary E. Irvine made interesting
remarks on obedience, and the necessity of
watching over our children and teaching
them correct principles. Meeting adjourned
until 2 p. m. singing, “Satan’s empire long
has flourished,” ect. Benediction by Sister
Elvira S. Hurst.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—On the stand
with President Horne was her Counselor
H. M. Whitney, her Aids and others.
Opened with singing, “How firm a founda-

