MRS. EAST'S VISIT.

Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	DEAR SISTER:—Yours of September was
forwarded to me, and gladly received, bring-
ing with it a blessing from Sister Zina and
yourself, which I assure you was ap-
preciated, as I was not well, and far from
the Saints of God, in the midst of darkness
and opposition; to whom could I go but
God, O how glad I was that I had learned
to know that He was a tangible being, and
that He could hear and answer prayer, and
when asked the question by two Evanglists
what denomination I belonged to, my re-
ply was Latter-day Saints.
	Evangelist. "What's the difference be-
tween Mormons and Latter-day Saints?"
	"We are called Mormons because of the
record that was found containing a History
of an ancient people that dwelt on the
American Continent."
	Evangelist. "What do your people be-
lieve of the Trinity?"
	"We believe in the Bible which informs us
that God created man in His own image
and that Adam heard Him walking in the
garden and God called Adam, which proves
beyond a doubt that our Father and God
has a body and His Son Jesus has a separ-
ate body and the Holy Spirit or Holy Ghost
is an acting Agent bearing record of the
Father and son constituting one spiritual-

[Column 2]
ly, agreeing in all matters they are one."
	Evangelist. "I'll never be satisfied until I
visit Salt Lake City, do come and see us we
are not afraid of investigation, our doors
are open to receive all that's good and sift
truth from error, good morning!"
	The beautiful land of Texas has been
visited by cyclones and floods and the land
is filled with Evangelists, the people are all
joining some Church, it makes no difference
to them if they do worship a God without
body, parts or passions; fear has come upon
the people and saloons are being closed and
dancing disfellowshiped.
	I have found five that believe the Gospel
but do not feel that they can gather out;
they have defended our doctrines, and have
no doubt removed some of the prejudices
and misrepresentations in circulation
against us; I find the women are taking the
lead in some matters, they have organized
a society of women to get means to hire the
graveyard beautified and fenced, and are
hunting up the records; this is a laudable
undertaking, we understand this and would
recommend it to others.
	One dear friend said I was deluded, I
bore a faithful testimony to him, and sang
that beautiful, inspirational hymn, "O, my
Father," and told him the world knew not
that we had a mother in heaven, they
know not what a Temple is for, but thanks
be to God that I can testify of these things
the pre-existence of Spirits, it is the hap-
piest theme of my soul, the tears rolled
down his cheeks, from henceforth you
shall see me no more until you shall say
blessed is he that cometh in the name of
the Lord.
	I must not close without saying I wish
our sisters to appreciate the EXPONENT
I have with me the No. 15th, July with an
account of the testimonies of the Sisters on
the fiftieth anniversary of the martyrdom
of the Prophet Joseph by which my friends
here will see that our Sisters are intelligent
and not in bondage also have sent me by
Bro. Plant the Deseret News containing Ser-
mons of President Woodruff and O. F.
Whitney, that was a great help to me when
our people were accused of taking from
and adding to the words written in this
book, long before the Bible was compiled,
which they the accusers had to acknowledge.
also the funeral services of our beloved
Brother John Morgan whom we all loved
and can testify concerning, "blessed are
the dead that lie in the Lord."
	I am as ever your devoted Sister,
WILLMIRTH EAST.
	P. S. I desire to be prayed for in the
Temple, my health has been poor and no
one to administer to me or pour out my soul
to but God my Heavenly Father, I have
an abiding faith that I shall return to my
family and the Saints that are dearer to me
than all the splendor of a fallen world.
Kopper, Bosque Co. Texas, Oct. 10, 1894.


