EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE General Relief Society Conference
held on the 4th, of October in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall was well attended by
officers and representatives from a distance,
though there were some stakes not reported
by any one. There were three sessions
morning, afternoon and evening, and much
good counsel given and valuable instruc-
tion imparted. Much regret was felt at the
absence of Counselors Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith who were absent
from their accustomed places and deep
sympathy was felt and expressed for Sister
Richards who was absent on account of the
very recent death of her only sister, Sister
Sarah S. Richards. Sister Smith had the
misfortune to fall and hurt herself a short
time before the Conference, though her in-
juries are not considered serious. We shall
publish as soon as possible, minutes of the
Conference so that all interested may know
the general tenor of the reports and the
teachings of the President.

	THE death of Oliver Wendell Holmes,
on the 7th, of October, was a sort of shock
to all those to whom his name and life-
work had become known. Since the de-
mise of John Greenleaf Whittier this event
has perhaps been looked forward to as a
thing that must transpire ere long, yet one
is none the less shocked when it actually
takes place. Of the great intellectual
giants of New England, this century has
produced (of whom there was a dozen or
more) Dr. Holmes is the last. To be sure
there are three others left of the class at
Harvard of 1829 but neither of them have
distinguished themselves as those to whom
we allude, whose names are forever en-
graven in the literature of the country and
whose noble lives will ever be an incentive
to the generations who came after them
while time shall last to “go and do like-
wise.” When poets, philosophers and
statesmen are also honest, honorable and
correct in their lives, beloved for their good-
ness of heart and admired for their virtues,
such examples are way marks to follow.
Dr. Holmes, was an upright,consistent con-
scientious man of the people, notwith-
standing his great fame, beloved and
reverenced by those who knew him inti-
mately, true as steel in all the relations of
life. When such men pass away, though
the nation mourns, they are not dead, and the
name and fame of Oliver Wendell Holmes
is immortalized.
	IT is with a considerable degree of satis-
faction we announce that Dr. Maggie
C. Shipp’s summer class of women students
in Obstetrics, recently passed a successful
examination before the Territorial Medical
Board. This is the first time any class has
been quizzed by them, as formerly it was
customary that the classes taught were ex-
amined as to their attainment by two or
three M. D’s. invited to judge of their
qualifications. In this instance it was quite
an ordeal, and naturally enough the Doctor
herself is somewhat proud of it and is cer-
tainly entitled to congratulations and well-
merited praise on account of the success of
her class, which reflects great credit upon
her method of teaching, and proves what
we have often heard before, that she is
practical and thorough in the discipline and
training of her classes. Each one of the
class received her certificate to practice in
her profession from the Territorial Board,


[Column 1]
and is now fairly equipped to enter upon
the practice of her chosen profession. The
names are Miss Sarah Reed, Woodruff
Rich Co., Miss Beda Erickson, Manti,
Sanpete Co. Mrs. Mary A. Turner West
Jordan, Salt Lake Co. Mrs. Elizabeth
Froerar, Huntsville, Weber Co. all of Utah.
We must also congratulate these students
that they have been so successful in their
studies and we hope and trust that they
will be wise, prudent and conscientious in
the use of the knowledge they have gained,
that they may be a blessing wherever their
services may be required.
	THE Semi-annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints held this month was in all respects
satisfactory and encouraging. The at-
tendance was numerous and the teaching
and instruction all tended in the direction
of spiritual uplifting and comforting to all
who desire to keep the commandments ot
God, and in temporal matters in the estab-
lishment and sustaining, of such home-
industries, as would be instrumental in
building up home institutions and manu-
factories that would give employment to
those in need of work and make the people
self supporting. Some very impressive
counsel was given in regard to the obser-
vance of Fast days and also upon the Word
of Wisdom, and the spirit of God was
poured out in rich abundance upon the
speakers and the immense congregations
assembled to listen. On Sunday Oct. 7th,
the last day of the Conference the people
could not all be accommodated with seats,
or even standing room, notwithstanding
there was an overflow meeting in the As-
sembly Hall, after the large Tabernacle had
been crowded. The spirit of the Confer-
ence augurs well for the future of Zion and
shows the great interest of the Latter-day
Saints who live at long distances from the
Centre Stake, who many of them travel at
great expense and inconvenience, that they
may hear the words of life and salvation
from the lips of servants of the Lord at
these great Conferences of the Church, and
carry home with them the spirit, and a
portion of the instruction given to impart
to others, and as a guide to their lives in the
work in which they and all true Latter-day
Saints are so deeply interested.
	THE North American Review for Oct.
contains a bright and argumentative
article by Lady Henry Somerset entitled,
“The Renaissance of Women.” The
reasoning is so broad and so clear that we
delight to republish it, had we the space
and power, but we hope most of the readers
of the Exponent especially those interested
in Suffrage might read it all. We quote
the following paragraph and from that we
may judge the pleasing and commencing
style of the article.
	"I believe that woman should vote be-
cause she is a different being and always
will have a different work to do in life from
that of man. She has a divine task to ac-
complish, you entrust her with the most
sacred duty on earth; you ask her to give
the nation her children; you ask her to nur-
ture and care for them; you ask her to in-
stil into their minds the holiest aspirations
that are to be their guide in after life; you
ask her, with all her experience and judg-
ment, to look upon the world with its
many social evils that her mother’s eyes are
swift to see while yours are blinded, and
then you ask her to believe that it is
'justice' that her voice should be silent, her

[Column 2]
action powerless to guard the interests of
her girls whom you declare that men, and
men alone must represent. You ask her to
sit through long weary nights rocking the
cradle, but when the child grows up to
manhood you say that she has no right to
deal with those questions that make for the
weal or woe of his future life. You do not
deny that in many cases women maintain
the home by their own labor, that by the
‘Sweat of their brow do they eat bread,’
that the children owe their education, their
clothing, the roof over their heads, to the
work of their mother’s hands; you do not
ask the men of the state represent the wo-
men when they have no one to earn a liv-
ing for, the children who are deprived by
death of a father or deserted by a worthless
husband; but only when you come to the
edge of the Rubicon, where toil is merged
into privilege, and penalties jars over into
power, do you say to the woman, “Stand
back; thus far and no farther!”


