same as twenty three years ago and many
others seem to open a new world of pro-
gress of changed improvement of laud and
labor, the prime factors in wealth produc-
tion. It seems strange to be rapidly whirl-
ing over, around and through places I have
traveled walking on foot or conveyed by
common wheel now on electric cars or
wings of steam. Your pretty fancying
this visit after so long a lapse of years like
going to another world is unique indeed.
But the satisfaction great as it may prove to
be, must come far short of what we are led
to expect in the world immortal, where
there is no sorrow or sighing and where
tears are wiped from all faces, and no graves
dot the surface as here on hillside and vale,
to constantly remind us of our mortality
and assure us that here, “we have no con-
tinual city or abiding place;” but there is
pleasure akin to pain coming back after
long years to revisit once familiar lands and
places, and although we mark the changes
and meet but few of those that once
gladdened our hearts in the past and often
find that they too have changed, we love to
linger over memories associated with them
and every scene of the long ago is renewed,
of sunshine or shadow, of joy or sorrow,
and so we have a series of panoramic views
of the people, and times we once lived in.
	We have been to the old homestead in
North New Salem we walked over the spot
where the house once stood lingered long
upon the broad stone door step on the south
side from which I last beheld and bade a
tearful farewell to our Sainted mother, we
marked and gazed long upon the grand
spreading trees in front of where the house
once stood that our mother’s hands planted
when little saplings; we looked lovingly in-
to the clear waters of the never-failing well
which has supplied five families all through
the long drought while nearly all the wells
and springs around had failed. The well-
sweep and bucket looked the same as fifty
years ago and the pure waters from which
we drank were just as sweet and refreshing;
the little brook in which we gazed to be
reflected as in a mirror, went bounding and
leaping over its pebbly bottom as of yore,
singing the same musical song o’er and o’er.
	The School House and the Church in their
coats of white and green, the village store,
blacksmith shop and every house with very
few exceptions looked the same and in as
good condition with scarcely a mark or
change of decay. The roadways were the
same; some few more trees along by them,
but the orchards, homes and farms, looked
as when I last beheld them. There were
more graves in the pine grove cemetery
where we spent an hour or more the first
day of our visit, read names of many we
had known in the long ago inscribed upon
the marble. I spent the sabbath attending
Church service and Sunday School.
Besiah Fay now a noted man in this part
of the state taught the Bible Class, I was
greeted very cordially and invited to visit
and prolong my stay among them; was

[Column 2]
shown the inside of a door leading into a
closet from the vestibule in the Church
where in large painted letters I read the
names of our step father with the date Dec.
1836 after this names of sisters and several-
nieces who have visited the old Church
where our mother and her family worshiped
long years gone by—I added my name in
pencil to the list wondering who of onr kin
would inscribe theirs next. Mrs. Amos
Ellis took me to Moss Village. The Pond
and Vose places look the same, most of the
houses are replaced with large sized glass
for the small 8x4 lighted windows of yore.
The Lowell Vose place is now marked by
heaps of stones with shrubs and trees grow-
ing out of and among them; but strange to
tell: the grand Barberry tree that stood near
a back window of the house over fifty years
ago, remains bearing fruit annually.
All the places seem to stand still, undis-
turbed by steam or electric cars. The
sleepiest, quietest, unprogressive part of
this busy world imaginable, which seem-
ingly nothing less than a tornado would
startle into activity, and that came very
near Sept. 10th, giving parts of New Salem
a sudden shaking, leaving North village 
undisturbed in its Rip Van Winkle Sleep.
You will read accounts in the papers of
this somewhat rare experience here in the
tornado line.
	A few inhabitants of North Salem are on
the superannuated list but the majority are
old people whose children, children’s,
children to the third and even fourth gen-
eration are scattered abroad or removed for-
ever. The merry ringing voices of child
ren are no longer heard in the streets, very
few attend day or Sunday School and these
come in from homes outside the village
proper. I saw only three lads the four days
of my stay and these were visiting grand-
parents. At the village store the Post
Office is kept as of yore. A hack conveys
United States Mail with passengers &c., to
and from, daily starting from Orange at an
early hour a. m.
	What we admired most in the way of
flowers was the dear old fashioned flowers
and shrubs which are ever tenderly as-
sociated with days of childhood and youth,
we were generously supplied of these and
other floral beauties to take with us. The
dear old neverfailing well, the clear run-
ning brook, just below, the broad spread-
ing apple tree, our dear mother’s hands
planted, the long wide stone now marking
the spot where her house once stood from
which she and her younger children went
out to return no more with all the surround-
ings of groves, fields and hills, were re-
viewed with an indescribable, mournful
satisfaction of feeling, mingled with grate-
ful thanks to the kind Providence that had
permitted this visit to these old places and
scenes (with dear sisters) after long years
in the West.					L. M. H.


THOMAS BAILEY ALDRICH has been
writing poetry since 1856, when he pro-
duced a small volume of ballads. He was
then a clerk in a New York counting-room.


