IN MEMORIAM.
	DIED Sep. 24th, 1894, in Morgan City, Utah.
Sister Harriet Nash Welch, wife of Thomas R.
G. Welch, at the age of sixty-three. Deceased
was born at Horstedkairns, Sussex, England,
April 17th, 1831. She embraced the Gospel in
Brighton, where she was baptized by Elder
James Pitman, Oct. 1st, 1853.
	In August 1835, she was married
to Thomas R. G. Welch, to whom she bore nine
children, six of them, one daughter and five sons,
survive her. Also twenty-seven grand-children.
Her hopes were centered on Zion, and she with
her husband and babe, sailed from Liverpool,
March 28th, 1857; arrived in Salt Lake City
September 12th, the same year, coming by Boston,
Iowa City, Florence, and over the dreary desert
plains. Went South on the advent of Johnston's
army, and returned to Salt Lake City in the
Spring of 1860. Brother and Sister Welch, re-
moved to Morgan County in the fall of 1860.
In 1879 Sister Welch was called, by Sister E. R.
Snow Smith, to preside over the Primary Associa-
tion of South Morgan Ward. She was then a
teacher in the Relief Society, but did not resign
the trust. The following year she was called to
preside over the Primaries throughout this Stake,
which office she filled earnestly and faithfully, un-


til the Lord called her home. Of late years, she
suffered a great deal, but her faith was great, and
she rallied time after time, to continue her great
work, for the living and the dead. Her love and
sympathy drew the children around her.
	To the funeral, which took place the 27th, of
September, 1894, the little girls of the Primaries,
of this Stake, came dressed in white to follow
the remains of their beloved President. The
hall was thronged. The choir sang deceased’s
favorite hymns: “How firm a foundation” and
“O, my Father Thou that dwellest,” after which
the Presidency of the Stake, father Robert Hogg
and others spoke of the good works and integrity
of the departed. The Primary children sang,
“Gather them into the fold,” and sorrowing
relatives, friends and neighbors looked once more
on the remains of our Sister who has gone be-
fore us.
							E. C. E. F.
Morgan, Oct. 1st, 1894.


