OF THE UNITED STATES.

	THE first Triennial session of the National
Council of women of the United States
was held in Washington in 1891. The
second such session would have occurred
in 1894 but for the fact that the organiza-
tion of the World’s Congress of Representa-
tive Women, held in Chicago in 1893, was
 entrusted to a committee of which the
President and the Corresponding Secretary
of the National Council were, respectively,
Chairman and Secretary. The time and
strength of these executive officers being
thus diverted from national to international
plans, it was ordered by the Executive
Committee of the National Council that
four instead of three years should elapse
prior to its next regular public session, the
date of which was then fixed for 1895. The
attention of women throughout the country
is thus early solicited to the following points
relating to the approaching Triennial:
	I. The Council will open formally on
February 18th, 1895, and, continuing two
weeks, will close on March 2nd, 1895; it
will be held in Metzerott’s Music Hall,
Washington, D. C.
	II. A meeting of which the officers of
the Council will have charge will be held
in the same Hall on the afternoon of
Sunday, February 17th. A second re-
ligious service will occupy the afternoon of
Sunday, February 24th.
	III. Exclusive of the Sunday meetings,
there will be twenty-four sessions of the
Council proper, twelve morning and twelve
evening sessions, besides probably two or
three extra afternoon sessions. The morn-
ing sessions will open at 10 a. m. and ad-
journ at 1 p. m.
	The first of these, held on Monday,
February 18th, will be occupied by the
President’s Address, and by the introduc-
tion of delegates, regular and fraternal,
and of guests; the second, held on Tuesday,
February 19th, and the last, held on Satur-
day, March 2nd, will be devoted exclusively
to formal business. The remaining nine
morning sessions will be filled by pro-
grammes made by the Committee of Ar-
rangments of the National Council. Topics
of broad general interest will be introduced
at these sessions by an adequate address
which will be followed by discussion in
which only duly accredited members of the
Triennial Council may participate, as
follows:
	(a).	The General Officers of the
National Council.
	(b).	 The patrons of the National
Council.
	(c).	The Members of all the four stand-
ing Committees of the National Council.
	(d).	The President of each organization
belonging to the National Council.
	(e).	The Delegate of each organization
belonging to the National Council.
	(f). The President of every State Coun-
cil, and of every Local Council, which
shall be affilliated with the National Coun-
cil prior to February 1st, 1895.
	(g).	The Delegates of every such State
and of every Local Council.
	IV.	In the business sessions mentioned
where alone discussion will culminate in a
vote, while the seven classes enumerated in
the conclusion of the preceding paragraph

[Column 2]
may participate in all discussions, the classes
described under (b), (c) and (g) may not
vote; but all persons included in classes
described under (a), (d) (e) and (f) may
vote upon all propositions thus formally
acted upon.
	One morning session will be devoted to
each of the four subjects continuously con-
sidered by the National Council through
its four standing Committees. The pro-
gramme for all the morning sessions will be
published later in detail.
	VI.	The evening sessions will open at
8 p. m., and will adjourn at 10.30 p. m.
Exclusive of the last they will be devoted
to the presentation to the general public of
the work of the organizations composing
the National Council, through programmes
which will be prepared by the officers or by
special committees of such organizations,
the separate programmes being subject to
the approval of the Committee of Arrang-
ments. The last evening session, viz., that
held on March 2nd, will be occupied in pre-
senting the work of the National Council
proposed for the immediate future, and in
introducing the officers elect for the next
term.
	VII.	According to the Constitution,
national organizations entering the National
Council later than three months prior to the
opening of the Triennial Session of 1895,
cannot be considered members of the Coun-
cil until after said session, although the
officers and members of such associations
will be welcome guests at the Triennial.
	VIII. The National Councils of women
already formed in foreign countries, as
France, Switzerland, Belgium, Germany
and Canada, will be invited to send frater-
nal delegates: while all of the officers of
the International Council of Women will be
invited to attend, and its President, the
Countess of Aberdeen, may be confidently
expected.
	Pending the publication of the programme
in detail, the officers of the National Coun-
cil bespeak the interest of all who read this
Call, and solicit correspondence on the sub-
jects which it suggests.
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL, President,
		343 N Pennsylvania St. Indianapolis, Ind.
FRANCES E. BAGLEY, Vice-President,
		113 Washington St., Detroit, Mich.
LILLIAN M. N. STEVENS, Treasurer,
		Stroudwater, Maine.
RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec'y.
		Somerton, Philadelphia, Pa.
ISABELLA CHARLES DAVIS, Rec. Sec.
		158 West 23rd St., New York City.


