WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RICHARD HARDING DAVIS was thirty
years old last April.
	“Curtis Yorke’s” real name is Mrs. John
Richmond Lee. Mrs. Lee was born and
educated in Glasgow.
	MISS ANNIE HOLDSWORTH, whose first
story, “Joanna Traill, Spinster,” was pub-
lished some months ago, edits the Woman's
Signal in London and is associated with
Mr. Stead in the literary work of the
Review of Reviews.
	MRS. ELIZABETH B. GRANNIS, of New
York City, as president of the Christian
League for the Promotion of Social Purity,
has a great many cases of suffering brought
to her notice. She is making appeals for
help from the charitable for funds to build
city and country industrial homes for women
where they may also take dependent mem-
bers of their families. In this connection
the fact is being brought to light that there
is no free temporary home for respectable
women in New York. The Superinten-
dent of Out-door Poor said recently to a re-
porter for the Times.
	“I say it is terrible. In this City of
New York a woman must first acknow-
ledge she is bad or she cannot get a place to
stay over night.”—Ex.
	FRANCES WILLARD passed her 55th
birthday on Sept. 28, and was given, as the
Chicago papers said, “Such a birthday
party as never woman had before" There
was a celebration at the Temple in the
morning, and at the First Congregational
Church in the afternoon. C. C. Bonney


made the address of welcome for the citi-
zens of Chicago, and Rev. Dr. J. H. Bar-
rows for the clergy; President Rogers, of
Northwestern University for the educa-
tors, and half a dozen other distinguished
men and women for different classes and
associations. Anne Whitney's bust of
Miss Willard was unveiled, and so was the
Chautauqua fountain. The boys Brigades
of the city escorted Miss Willard to the
church, and there was great enthusiasm.
It was a well deserved tribute.—Ex.
	THE remonstrants against woman suf-
frage think it would be “unwomanly” for
women to vote. They have an idea that
suffragists wish to place women in un-
natural positions. But the fact is the so-
called conservatives are far less sensitive
than the liberals on this point. In Ger-
many, for instance, where the emperor
claims to rule by divine right, and where
women are especially subordinate to men
socially, industrially and politically,there are
eight women colonels, all of whom draw
their pay regularly, namely, the empress of
Germany, the dowager empress, the
Princess Frederick Charles of Prussia, the
Queen Regent Sophia, Queen Wilhelmina
of the Netherlands, the Duchess of Con-
naught, the Duchess of Edinburg and
Queen Victoria.
	In Massachusetts, three of the brightest
opponents of woman suffrage have been
women intensely interested and active in
politics: one a member of the State Board
of Charities, who is supposed to have de-
feated Governor Butler’s re-election, one
an expert and successful lobbyist, and one
who is the author of a very popular politi-
cal handbook. They think it womanly to
hold office and instruct men how to vote,
but unwomanly to vote in person. Alas
for human inconsistency!—Ex.


