A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

	(To the memory of my Dear Friend Sister
Eliza C. Binder who departed this life at her
home Salt Lake City, March 26th, 1894, aged
61 years 2 months and 15 days.)
	MUCH sympathy was felt and many hearts
mourned her loss for she was well and very favor-
ably known through all the vales of Utah. The
family have kept open house for years at con-
ference times, and other public occasions, scores
find in their hospitable home a hearty welcome
awaiting them.
	I have visited the home since her demise, and
the same kind spirit pervades it, though her
room looks deserted,and her chair at the table is
vacant. “I feel that her sweet spirit like the per-
fume of long faded flowers, still broods over her
home with its love giving powers.”
	Sister Binder was a second mother to me, her
heart overflowed with maternal love,the sorrow of
her life was she never had a child of her own
The word mother whether lisped by the faltering
babe or the grown man, always brought a thrill
to her heart and a tear to her eye.
	She never missed an opportunity of testifying
to the truths of the Gospel, it was her delight to
converse upon and study its principles. She
looked anxiously forward to the evening when
the day’s duty ended and the family could gather
in her room, and talk upon the principles of sal-
vation. She was the pink of neatness,and ever
studied to make her room and person attractive.
She was swift to rebuke wrong and equally so to
approve the right, she received celestial marriage
and did in that principle what few women could
have done. She possessed great charity and car-
ried a heavenly influence with her, her sympathy
for the needy was substantial and she ever exerted
herself to relieve distress.
	The last winter of her life she undertook to
raise money to assist in paying the taxes of a
worthy sister who is alone in the world, though
she met many rebuffs and discouragements, she
succeeded in raising the necessary amount
	Her journey across the plains in the "Hand
cart company of 1856”is full of touching incidents


She with her husband have been members of the
Old Folks Committee for years and it was a great
pleasure for her to work for the comfort of all.
	Sister Binder was original, she leaves a void in
the community, but especially do I sympathize
with Brother Binder and his untiring companion
who have ever done all in their power to make
life sweet to her, especially through the many
years of her bodily suffering; no remorse is
mingled with their sorrow. I have visited her
grave in the silent city, which they two keep
green with freshly culled flowers. She was very
tender to the sufferings of others, but courageous
in her own, the Obituary Notes in the News and
Herald, at the time were much appreciated but
it would take a book to tell of her goodness and
kindness. I often wish that such as she could be
sent to this earth as ministering angels, to comfort
those who are passing through ordeals; but we
have the life of our Savior before us and we
should be satisfied with this, and the conscious-
ness, that we are striving for the plaudit, we feel
sure she has received. “Well done thou good
and faithful servant, enter thou into the joy of thy
Lord.”
	We all miss her, but my deepest sympathy rests
with her bereaved husband, they were so devoted
to each other and so congenial for over forty
years. She was indeed, “A True Wife.”
	"His home she entered there to be a light,
	Shining within when all without was night,
	A guardian angel o’er his life presiding
	Doubling his pleasure, and his cares dividing
	Winning him back when mingling in the throng,
	From a vain world, we love alas too long,
	To fireside happiness and hours of ease.
	Blessed with that charm the certainty to please
	How oft her eyes read his, her gentle mind
	To all his wishes, all his thoughts inclined
	Still subject ever on the watch to borrow
	Mirth from his mirth and sorrow from his sor-
		row
EMILY G. CLUFF.
Provo City.


