UTAH W. S. A. CONVENTION.
	THE Annual Convention of the Ter-
ritorial W. S. A., of Utah was held Oct.
9th, 1894, in the Fourteenth Ward Hall.
First Vice President Emily S. Richards in
the chair. Opening prayer Mis. E. J.
McFarlane. The minutes of the previous
Annual Convention were read and accepted.
The Treasurer read her report for the past
year which was approved. The Associa-
tion then proceeded to elect its officers for
the year 94 and 95., as follows—
	Emmeline B. Wells, President Emily
S. Richards, First Vice President; Julia P.
M. Farnsworth, Second Vice President;
Carrie E. Dye, Third Vice President; Nel-
lie Little, Recording Secretary; Augusta
W. Graut, Corresponding Secretary; Ruth
M. Fox,Treasurer. Phebe Y. Beatie, Chair-
man of Executive Committee. Elizabeth


McCune, Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon, Dr.
R. B. Pratt, E. J. McFarlane, Ella W.
Hyde, members of Executive Committee.
May Wells, Chairman of Publishing Com-
mittee. Louisa Greene Richards, Annette
W. Culmer, members. Eliza A. Bennion,
Susie Bennion, Auditors.
	The chairman called for reports from the
different counties. Mrs. E. J. McFarlane,
Mrs. Lucy A. Clark, Mrs. C. M. White
and Mrs. M. J. Shelby responded, repre-
senting respectively Salt Lake, Davis,
Beaver ard Rich counties. The following
resolutions were adopted by the Convention.
	“WHEREAS the Political parties of Utah
have manifested their approval of woman
suffrage by inserting in their platforms a
plank to that, effect.
	THEREFORE be it resolved that the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association in Territorial
Convention desires to express its grateful
appreciation of the liberality and justice
of both parties in thus recognizing the wo-
men of Utah as being entitled to equal
suffrage with themselves: that we have im-
plicit confidence in the earnestness of the
parties and we assure them that they will
never have cause to regret adopting said
resolutions. And when these champions of
liberty shall meet in convention to frame a
constitution for our State government, con-
taining such enlightened and progressive
sentiments as those embraced in their plat-
forms not only ourselves but our
co-workers throughout the Nation will
unite in showering heart-felt praises upon
their honored heads."
	Lucy A. Clark Chairman of Com-
mittee on Resolutions.
	The Convention adjourned to the call of
the president after the Resolutions were
adopted.
