[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: SKETCH OF TRAVELS. | Author: Unknown]

SKETCH OF TRAVELS.
BROOKVILLE IND. JAN. 6TH 1896.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Friend:––I will endeavor to give
you a brief sketch of my trip or visit East. 
	I left Salt Lake City on the tenth of last

[Column 2]
October in company with my little son,
Lynne, reaching Denver the next day,
where I spent several days with my
daughter who is teaching in one of the
public schools, and my son Robbie who is
with her and attending school. I enjoyed
my stay there very much, as well as the
great Carnival in progress during our stay,
we witnessed numerous parades one par-
ticularly striking, being an evening display
of “The slaves of the silver kings.”
 	On the 19th, we took the train for Pitts-
burg, the smoky city of Pennsylvania,
having to lay over four hours at Kansas
City, I met my sister-in-law, Mrs Frank
Tower, she was much pleased to see me
“as it was the first time.” At 9 p. m. we
again moved on to the great city of St. Louis
where we remained six hours, while wait-
ing we took a carriage drive through the
principal streets to suburbs of the city in-
cluding, Forest Park, enjoyed our ride and
sights of the city very much. From here
we crossed Illinois, Indiana, my native state
and Ohio The prairies seemed exceedingly
tame and common-place after our noble
mountain scenery, but the latter two states
were crossed in the dark, we visited relatives
in Pittsburg four days and then rode out
twenty five miles to Valencia where I was
met by my only sister living, Mrs. Hannah
Bailey whom I had not seen for forty years,
as may well be imagined it was a happy
meeting. For two weeks we spent the time
in becoming acquainted as it were, when
we together started for Cincinnati. Here
we stayed three weeks with relatives. We
sat down to thanksgiving dinner with my
father’s youngest sister Mrs. R. Walker.
Her only living sister Mrs. Margaret Heap
lives in Wyoming, and is a member of our
Church, the only one, she is about eighty
six years of age. The Ohio river had so
little water in its channel that no boats were
running, so I was disappointed of riding on
the river.
	It was a wonderful sight at Pittsburg to
see the numbers of barges, awaiting a rise
that they might float to market, the two
rivers forming the Ohio were covered with
these fleets for miles.
	On the twenty ninth of November we
came to this place over the Valley Railroad,
the entire distance winding up a river valley
reaching here at 7 p. m. where we were
met by the daughter of my uncle A. C.
Miller and conducted to their hospitable
home where we received a hearty welcome
from the remainder of the family, uncle,
aunt and two other cousins. Uncle and
aunt are both past seventy and raised five
children never having had a death in the
family.
	At this place I found a cousin Mrs.
Elizabeth Bailey, who at eighty four lives
alone and attends to her property and
business. William Beesley another cousin,
after a few days drove over from the neigh-
borhood of my old home and en route we
pass the old hamlet of Mt. Carmel, the
home of the gifted poetess, M. Louisa
Chitwood, the pet of the noted George D.
Prentiss, she died at the early age of twenty-
two. Here after a few days my sister bade
me goodbye and returned to her home.
Amid these home scenes I met many rela-
tives and old friends, though a number
have passed away, and some have moved to
other parts. I visited my childhood home
and the home of my parents, emotions too
strong for utterance crowded my bosom as
I entered that good old house erected by my


On the 28th we started for home travel-
ing up the River, camped at the Beaver
Dam on the 29th and arrived home in the
evening, having traveled two hundred and
thirty miles.
