[Vol52 | March 1965 | Page 205 | Home | The Sculptured Beauty of Formal Gardens Dorothy | J. Roberts]
SCULPTURED BEAUTY OF FORMAL GARDENS small areas of radiant color and precise design are well planned and well cared for, they can reflect, in their disciplined splendor, the garden glory of many lands and the craftsmanship of devoted gardeners along the floral paths of history. Formal Flower Gardens are designed beds of plants enclosed in various shapes which are formed symmetrically with a large compass and mounded with mulched soil to a high center. They may be sculptured with convex and concave designs of the soil itself as well as with, later, the clipped plants, cut to emphasize the design. Design is essential in planning the formal garden. It might be well to remember that the requirements of pattern may be compared to the sonnet form in poetry, with its classic exactness, whereas the wayward garden may be compared to free verse, wherein the subject matter creates its own design. In the formal garden the design may be a combination of sculptured beds, plants of various heights, with clipped plant areas between, and edged with low plants or plants contoured with either round, pillow edges, or square edges. Designs may be of objects, creatures, or abstract forms. Examples of abstract forms are flags of a country, welcome designs, kidney-shaped designs, oval, circular, rectangular shapes, or as borders for walks and boundaries. Plants grown in formal gardens are usually bedding plants, most of them needing hothouses for the winter. Many of them are foliage plants, of various colors, ornamental grasses, and perpetually blooming flowering plants, most of which can tolerate clipping and constant contouring. GRASSES Pennisetum ruppelii (ornamental; long plume of seed) Green (by seed) Copper (by root division) FOLIAGE PLANTS Hen and chickens (outline and edge) Santolina (sage gray-green. Clip for edges, and lines.) Alternanthera New Red Old Red Old Green (green to dark red leaves. Clip.) Arisaema (green to red) (varied colored leaves. Clip.) Dusty miller Senecio cineraria (almost white; lacy to broad.) Coleus Golden Bedder Hurricane Christmas Gem etc. (showy, various colors) FLOWERING PLANTS Begonia (many varieties and colors. Clip.) Sweet Alyssum (white or heather; clip only sides if needed.) Snow Cloth Pink Heather Ageratum Blue Mink (red-blue blossoms highly brilliant. Clip.) Geranium (many colors and varieties; clip or for accent.) Marigold Petite Yellow Petite Orange (edge or line. Clip.) Canna (exotic, many kinds and colors; accent.)