[Vol52 | March 1965 | Page 199 | Home | "A Springtime Party" | ]
Springtime Relief Society Party Ninth Ward, Monument Park Stake TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL A springtime theme was effectively carried out for the closing social in the Ninth Ward, Monument Park Stake. The colorful maypoles were made from styrofoam sticks, but they could be made from cardboard rollers (used with paper towels, aluminum _ foil, or waxed paper). The poles were wound with L streamers of yellow, pink, and blue crepe paper, each of which was tied to a paper doll. The dolls were made with wooden clothespins for the body, the top of the clothespins painted to make faces, and the arms were made from pipe cleaners. Each doll had a "'lovely"' hair made from a wire dish cloth, ''topped off' with a paper hat. A circle of yellow dandelions adorned the base of the maypoles. Bare branches of shrubs and trees were decorated with crepe flowers to make the blossomed boughs. Large crepe flowers were placed in a row as decorative motifs in front of the stage in the cultural hall. The dolls were made by Lorna Broadbent, and the social was planned under the direction of Julia L. Houston, then ward President, and her Counselors Rosell Judkins and Edna Hendricks. Lorna Broadbent is the present President of the Ninth Ward Relief Society, and Marian Boyer is President of Monument Park Stake Relief Society. 199 Federal Heights Ward Harvest Holiday Federal Heights Ward Emigration Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah The Federal Heights Ward Harvest Holiday featured rustic and unique decorative designs, supervised by May Benson. The targe colored wheels illustrated in the lower picture were made from "hula'"' hoops, with the burlap covering material gathered in the center to represent a hub. Entertainment for children and teen-agers was provided by a fish pond and a specially selected ''cinema'' of cartoons. A ''Kiddie Korral'' was enclosed by a fence decorated with cowboy hats. The children entered the 'Korral" through a ''western" gate, at five cents each, and found a band of ''walking and riding horses." The many varieties of foods, including homemade candies and pastries, were served buffet style throughout the evening. Every Relief Society member participated in making the 'Holiday' an outstanding success. Top picture: Helen Lee Goates, President, Federal Heights Ward Relief Society, and Winnifred Sanders, ''head candy maker." Counselors in the ward presidency are Geraldine Callister and Margaret B. Adamson: work meeting leader: Donna T. Smart. Beth L. Belliston is President of Emigration Stake Relief Society. TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL The Netherlands was damien by Puyallup Ward. The booth featured a miniature windmill, and the sister in the booth wore an authentic Dutch costume.