[Vol52 | March 1965 | Page 164 | Special Feature | "The Lord Is My Strength" Winniefred | S. Manwaring]
The Lord is MI Ann wl) I Sirenotn I IMly dear brothers and sisters, I deem it a privilege to have this opportunity to speak to you today. As I look over this vast audience, it is an awe-inspiring sight, and it is also a humbling experience. I pray that what I say to you this afternoon, will be pleasing to my Heavenly Father. The story is told of a young man, full of exuberance, who undertook to draw up a list of the good things of life. When his list was completed, he proudly showed it to a wise friend, who had been the spiritual model of his youth. As the old friend pondered the list thoughtfully, the corners of his eyes wrinkled in amusement. He told the young man that he had omitted the most important thing of all, without which each possession would become a burden. With a pencil, the wise counselor crossed out the entire list and wrote down three words "peace of mind." The scriptures tell us that men are that they might have joy. Yet, if the mind is troubled and heavily burdened with the problems of life, our joy is greatly decreased. 164 Winniefred S. Manwaring Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964.] How can we meet these problems that might seem so insurmountable to us as individuals and acquire a_ tranquility of mind? We must first recognize change as a part of our Heavenly Father's plan. Everything in the world is in a constant state of change. It is an inevitable part of our existence, therefore, changes are bound to occur in the life of each of us. Sometimes these changes come suddenly, unannounced, bringing sorrow and despair. If we are wise, we will learn to bend with the harsh winds of life, as the trees incline their branches with the gale. There are trials wherein we must bend our heads in humble submission to our Maker. Each of us has many private battlefields — everyone has his secret sorrows. As Samuel Johnson said, "How little any of us know the real internal state even of those whom we see most frequently." I We are told that what life does to us is pretty well determined by the attitudes we take; that our unhappiness deon the way We meet the events of life, than on the nature of those events themknow with courage. And women owe their greatness to the difficulties they experienced in life. It has been written that the art of living lies not in eliminating but in growing with our troubles. Ground. To our Maker — and ourselves — our own true worth, unless we are tested by trial, sorrow, discouragement, and despair? Satan often uses discouragement as one of his most effective entrance into the heart. Of this, we must be aware. We must remember that things which are impossible to man are possible with God. This, then, gives US hope, and the power of banish discouragement. Effective therapies for of a depressed mind, gage in constructive endeavor of any nature. Those of you who have traveled by air, have seen how the plane by its own power, it can mise UPward to sunlit skies. If we use the full capabilities which the Lord has bestowed upon Us, we can lift our thoughts upwards.

"THE LORD IS MY STRENGTH" Many great battles of life are fought and won in the quietude of one's heart. The words of a familiar hymn can motivate us towards constructive thinking, blessings, name them one by one." If the mind is occupied with counting the good things of life that have come to us, WOrTy and tension will disappear. Been called the bridge which reaches from earth to heaven, and the one pathway from despair. The answers to our prayers and fasting may not be given just as we would have wanted them to be. The Lord's answer may be in granting us inwere answered would desire them to be, most of us would not experience the death of a loved one, sickness, trials or tribulations — and these are part of life. When the Smith was confined to Liberty Jail, he poured out his heart to 1 In the these comforting words were given to him by the Lord: exalt thee on high these things shall... Be for thy good. The Son of Man hath descended below them all. Art thou greater than he? (D&C 122: 7-8). When our minds are weighted down with discouragement and 


 despair, it would be well for us to ask ourselves, "Art thou greater than he?". In all of the difficulties that beset us in life, let us grasp the "Rod of Iron" of which Nephi spoke, for he said "it was the word of God; and whoso would hearken unto the word of God, and would hold fast unto it, they would never perish..." (Nephi 15:24). May I conclude with an admonition from the Bible, Trust ye in the Lord for ever: for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength (Isaiah 26:4). I say these things humbly in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.