[Vol52 | March 1965 | Page 178 | Fiction | Her Second Daughter | Edith Larson]
ELDA Sorensen shivered in the air-conditioned bus. She paid little attention to the sun-baked desert streaming by the tinted windows. Knowing that something was wrong there, not knowing what, she was mentally a hundred miles ahead in a certain small town nestled in a notch of the East Mountains. Somewhere in that town were twins, Nancy and Dan, aged seven; nine-year-old Monte, teaser extraordinary; and quicksilver Linda, who had so eloquently pleaded that at sixteen she was old enough to assume responsibility for the quartet. "What could, go wrong? Dad is even home for lunch!" Linda had scoffed. "Yes, I know your father is where he can check frequently, and you can go to him if anything serious happens, but—" Velda had hesitated, remembering the innumerable accidents that swoop down so suddenly that even the Sorensen Hardware on Main Street might be too far away. 178 i \. A a4 way) Linda's jaw had begun to quiver. "I wouldn't mind, Mother, really, only Sharon took care of all of us when she was a mere child. You just don't seem to have any confidence in me." "But I do, Linda. Of course I do. I don't know what I'd have done without you now Sharon is married and so far away." The sparkle had come back to Linda's eyes and a tap step to her ever-dancing feet. 'Then you won't get a_baby-sitter while you're at Grandma's, will you? You'll leave me in charge, won't you?" adding, as Velda had still hesitated, "under Daddy, of course!" "I'll talk to your father." For a chance to confer with her husband before Linda could plead her cause, Velda had picked Vincent up at the store that evening. To her surprise, he had agreed with his second daughter. "But Linda's nowhere near as responsible as Sharon at her age!"" Velda had protested. Vincent fitted the key in the ignition, depressed the accelera- tor the exact amount needed for the motor to turn over on the first whirr of the starter. He spoke quietly: "At Linda's age, Sharon had been the right hand of a semi-invalid mother for two years. Youngsters became responsible by being given responsibility. Inoculations would be easier on the parents, I suppose."' Vincent grinned, though he kept his eyes on the passing traffic, watching for a break. 'Science has discovered strange things, but somehow, I think I prefer the old-fashioned way of giving a child a job to do and letting her do it."' "But I may be gone a week or more! It may take Mother longer to get on her feet this time." Having found his opening and guided the car into the homebound traffic stream, Vincent took one hand off the wheel and patted Velda's as it clutched her purse. "TI'll keep both eyes on Linda instead of the one Sharon required,' he had _ promised. "Don't worry. She'll grow into the job." And then it was time to drive into their own garage. For once he hadn't teased her about using a car to go two blocks. Now, remembering, Velda drew her sweater about her snugly and wished the miles were -shorter. At least, she was headed back home. And so far there had been no disastrous reports. But something was wrong. She knew it — sensed it, rather.

During their two long-distance talks—both initiated by Velda— Linda had assured her that everything was wonderful, everyone HER SECOND DAUGHTER was tops, and keeping house was one long pleasure. But under the assurances was a dearth of details. The bus was slowing for a station, but Velda settled deeper into her seat instead of following those who seized the chance for a stretch. A new, startling thought had occurred to her. Here for a week—how she had worked to cut the trip as short as possible— she had been worrying about all the children except the one who was most vulnerable. Linda was so sensitive. Her mother's tense, anxious attitude might hurt the girl deeply, especially if the job had proven too much for her. Suddenly Velda's heart went out to Linda, always trying to equal, never quite succeeding in keeping up with competent, lovable Sharon. No younger child ever went to Linda to have the hurt kissed away — not if Sharon was around. Had the younger children accepted her authority now, or had Vincent quietly filled the breach? If he had, Linda's ego. Perhaps some such situation was what Velda had sensed behind Linda's chatter. The actual incidents couldn't have been too serious or Vincent would have called her but, no! There was no use in pretending to believe that nothing vital had gone wrong for Linda. Mothers have a sixth sense. As the bus moved out onto the highway again, Velda reviewed the first time her own mother had left her in charge of the younger children. Velda was only ten, but an emergency at a neighbor's had called Mama away for the afternoon. Eager toimpress her 


 mother, ignoring the danger of five brothers and sisters underfoot, Velda had decided to wash the family's few good pieces of china and glassware. Since they stood on open shelves, they frequently had to be taken down and washed. The ritual was one Velda had always treasured. THat afternoon, as she had washed, dried, and replaced the Dutch chocolate pot, the handpainted plates, the 1893 World's Fair cups and saucers, she had felt very grownup. She had left her favorite dish for the last. It was the newest one, too—a cake plate, clear glass, with a smaller base and a slim, glass column to hold the plate itself with its slightly raised edge. Papa had bought it after Mama won first prize on her layer cake at the county fair even without a fancy dish to show it off. Although Mama _ had _ protested against Papa's' extravagance, Velda knew she held the plate dear. Velda washed it very carefully. Then, halfway between the dishpan and the cupboard, she paused, seeing a chocolate dreamcake rise majestically on the gleaming glass, ignoring the scuffle between Frankie and little Jesse. The latter took a short-cut between her legs; and dream, dish, and Velda collapsed to the floor in the midst of shattered glass. So vivid was the picture even after thirty-odd years that Velda was hardly aware of the speeding bus. She chided herself, remembering how she had resisted leaving Linda in charge at sixteen. But those were sterner times, and 180 children were expected to take responsibility young. She remembered how she had prayed Papa would get home first—as he had. At first he had been skeptical of her carefully thought-out plan, but finally agreed to mind the children while she tried it. Clutching the _ thirty-seven cents she had been saving for Christmas, heart hammering with every word, she had proposed to Mr. Dinwiddie of Dinwiddie's Department Store that, if he would accept a down payment of thirty-seven cents on a cake plate like Papa bought, she would contract to give him every cent she received from any source whatsoever until the plate was paid for. But she needed the plate to take home now. Mr. Dinwiddie had pulled at his mustache and said, 'Most unusual." But, just when she thought her heart would burst, he had finally pulled a sheet of paper out of the desk drawer and drawn up a contract full of party's of the first part and whereas's. And so her income was tied up for eighteen long months. No one favored her; she received her share of the small amount of spending money available and no more. But she knew that Mama prized the cake plate Velda had carried home so carefully that night even more than she had the original — just as Velda had prized it ever since Mama had given it to Vincent and her as a wedding gift. For, of course, Mama _ had known all about everything from the beginning. She understood the motives and she knew how the penniless months dragged. And, without words, she knew how to make Velda feel her pride in her, so that when Velda finally learned that Papa had called Mr. Dinwiddie and arranged the deal, there was no shamed let-down. How carefully she in her turn must deal with Linda's failure, whatever form it may have taken. If she only knew what to be prepared for! Anp then, there didn't seem to be anything wrong — not anything at all. The twins, Monte, Linda, and Vincent were lined up at the station with beaming, healthy faces to greet her when the bus pulled in thirty minutes late. Vincent allowed each one a hug and a kiss, then bundled them into the car with the reminder that supper was waiting. How good it felt to drive the familiar, tree-shaded street; to watch the children pile out of the car, vying for the honor of carrying her suitcase; to see Linda hurry ahead to tend to her chores in the kitchen. How extra good it felt to enter the familiar rooms. Velda relaxed with pride. Linda had set the table and put on it everything that could safely stand if the bus were late. From the crisper she brought out radishes, celery, and carrot sticks prepared earlier, and from another section of the refrigerator, individual molded salads. By the time everyone was washed and ready for supper, Linda was bringing in a tuna-fish casserole from the oven. As Velda listened to her husband's fervent prayer of thanks for a reunited family, her heart swelled with added thankfulness. — Why had she been so fearful? The planning behind this welHER SECOND DAUGHTER come home could come only from a responsible person. Velda added a silent prayer that God would direct her words so that they might show her appreciation without betraying her doubts. But Linda seemed curiously indifferent to praise. Although she smiled and made the right answers, her eyes never fully met her mother's. Velda felt her former anxieties stronger than ever. Yet how could anything be wrong? Vincent seemed so relaxed. When he looked fondly at Linda and said, "I knew we had another good housekeeper in the family; we just never gave her a chance," Velda realized that he was unaware of Linda's trouble, whatever it might be. Monte looked at his sister appraisingly. "She's doing pretty well now," he admitted, '"'but, boy, meals were sure late at first." "It was your fault," protested Nancy. "You brought home regular oatmeal instead of the quick kind. So Linda wasn't to blame if breakfast was ten minutes late." "Twelve minutes, thirty - two seconds," corrected Monte. Tue familiar teasing was music to Velda's ears. Yet, as the banter continued, she missed one voice — Linda's. Linda, always so quick to defend herself, always so ready with the excuses, was unnaturally silent. Neither praise nor blame brought any response. Velda's glance circled the table, resting lovingly on each familar detail. The twins, tanned and already restless, were a fitting foreground for the wilderness mural on the south wall. 


 Behind Vincent at the head of the table stood the breakfront china cabinet. Monte was framed by the living room arch, and Linda on her mother's right. There was something wrong in the panorama. Slowly Velda let her glance' backtrack, past Monte's laughing face, past Vincent's. There it was, just to the left and behind Vincent, the cake plate on the top shelf of the breakfront. It glowed against the rich walnut—but it wasn't her cake plate. The style was similar. Vincent would never have noticed the difference. Velda smiled in relief. She could surmise what had _ happened: probably a cake baking spree to celebrate Linda's new authority, an accident, a hasty replacement. She knew just how Linda must feel now—the sense of shame in the face of so much praise, the feeling that she had been inadequate, that she had taken a childish attitude toward her responsibility. Since Vincent was so unaware, Linda must have secretly spent her own money. Velda frowned. Linda should know better than to try to hide her mistake. Well —probably she was waiting for a private opportunity to tell her mother first. THE opportunity came and went, came and went, over and over again, until the evening became one of the longest Velda could remember. To be sure, she now knew when the accident must have happened although the substitution seemed to be known only to Linda. The other children, eagerly bringing Mom up- 182 to-date, had told her about Linda's "'party." "She had a couple of the girls over the night after you left," Vincent explained. 'My school board meeting night, you know." "But she made us all go to bed while she and those pals of hers gorged themselves on fudge layer cake and _ pistachio ice cream, and who knows' what else,"' complained Monte. Again Linda sat mute. Little Nancy came to her defense. ''You ate your share the next morning, Monte." "She could hardly wait for Mom to be gone." "That's enough, son. You know that Linda would have been entertaining the same girls in the same way if her mother had been home." Vincent closed the subject firmly. But Velda, looking at Linda's masked face, worried. Did she intend to deceive her mother? A week crept by. If Linda meant to confide in her mother, she surely would have done so by this time. But why not? Linda had never seemed a secretive child. She had confessed far more serious faults than the breakage of a dish, treasured though it might be. Why was she silent now? Slowly, gropingly, during that week, Velda searched for an answer. She talked the problem over with Vincent—or rather, she talked to Vincent, for he remained noncommittal, even after she took the dish down and showed him the different pedestal and the rimless plate. As for Linda, she stayed away from home as much as possible. When in the house, she was quick to see what needed to be done; but, each task finished, she no longer asked her mother how her performance compared with Sharon's. THe day Velda recognized the significance of the unasked quesbegan to find her tion, she answer. Since babyhood, Linda had been saying, "I can do it just as well: as Sharon, can't I, Mommie?" From the beginning of her teens, the cry had been, "I'd be just as good as Sharon if you'd only give me a chance!" Now Linda had _ had _ her chance. In her own eyes, she had failed. If Linda would only confide in her mother! If Velda could only talk to her! As though Vincent stood beside her, Velda heard his voice: "Youngsters become responsible by being given responsibility." Why wasn't Linda as reliable as Sharon? With bowed head, Velda let the truth shine through her memories: Linda begging to be allowed to get supper, but being put off with table setting; Linda baby-sitting the twins in the afternoons, but Sharon taking over at night. Linda was right. Velda had never given her second daughter the trust the first one inspired. But was it because Linda was inherently unworthy of that trust? Had Velda taught her how to be worthy of it? She had taught Sharon. But Linda was a more difficult pupil. She was impatient, wanted to know how without learning, without practicing. She constantly ignored the threeyear difference between herself and her sister. Since she scorned HER SECOND DAUGHTER learning anything that Sharon already knew, she had remained largely untaught, gaining her knowledge by imitation. In this time of soul searching, Velda saw her mistake and with deep humility set about. The task of atoning for it. - Art 'first Velda tried ordinary means to break through that barrier — invitations to confidence, a sewing project that kept mother and daughter together for long hours. Linda remained inside her shell. Finally Velda called Vincent and arranged for him to keep the younger children out of the way until further notice. Vincent seemed to understand. Then she set the cake plate in the center of the table and sat down to wait. Linda was a long time coming. Velda heard her slow steps on the porch, felt rather than saw her freeze in the doorway. "Come in, dear, and sit down."' Face averted, Linda slumped into her father's chair at the opposite end of the table. Velda tried to make her voice sound casual. "I don't think I ever told you the story of my cake plate—I guess we mothers often neglect to tell of our own weak points," she began and went on with all the details, though at first they seemed to be dropping into a bottomless pit. But when the plate in_ the mother's story shattered, Linda's self-control shattered with it. As the sobbing girl rushed into her mother's outspread arms, Velda knew she would have a second chance with her second daughter.
