[Vol52 | March 1965 | Page 184 | Special Feature | Through the Eyes of a Convert Ida | M. Potts]
[Through the Eyes of a Convert Ida M. Potts]

the Convert Ida M. Potts Wuat are the objects of Relief Society? I thought I knew the answer to this question, but just to make sure, I considered the book A Centenary of Relief Society, and found that the minutes of the original meeting say that the Prophet Joseph Smith declared the object of this society was to look after the needs of the poor, to search after objects of charity, to administer to their wants, and "to assist by correcting the morals and ee the virtues of the community.. (page 15). President Hugh B. Brown, in Continuing the Quest, says: The place of importance that was assigned to the women's Relief Society is really analogous to the place of mother in the home the Relief Society being an extension of the home, is a helpmate to the priesthood.... Service, love-inspired service, is the symbol of womanhood. It is the emblem of the Relief Society (pp. 4-5; see also The Relief Magazine, December 1961, pp. 811-812). In our review of a convert's reactions, let us start at the beginning of her membership. The missionaries have been giving instructions, taking the investigator to the various services of the Church, and doing everything possible to create an interest in their work. They succeed in bringing the investigator into the Church. 184 She is baptized and confirmed and becomes a full-fledged member. The missionaries have done the work for which they are trained, and now it is the duty of the membership to take their new member into their auxiliaries and fellowship with them. A shy, reserved convert finds it difficult to "mix in" with these (to her) strangers. If she has been active in church circles previous to her becoming a Latter-day Saint, she can be lonely if the sisters do not take her under their wing and help her to become acclimated to her new environment. If she is given some work to do at once, that breaks the spell of loneliness and she more readily becomes one of the group. When once a new member reaches the place where she feels at home in her Relief Society, she realizes that it is a unique group. Counselor Marianne C. Sharp of the General Presidency clearly describes our group. She says: Relief Society is not a Church study club, although the members faithfully study the standard works of the Church; it is not a homemakers club, although every member is trained in better homemaking; it is not a literary club, although members gain deep understanding from great writings; it is not a social service club, although it studies and sponsors the giving of service; it is not a money-making club, although substantial monetary support is given to Church programs. It is an inspired organization with the highest eternal goals (Relief Society Magazine, November 1962, page 802).; Our new convert at the beginning of the month attends a theology meeting. She soon realizes that the teacher is a dedicated sister devoting her time and energy and intelligence to giving a theology lesson that will define gospel truths and uplift the minds and hearts of those who listen to her presentation. Then follows the testimony meeting. The sisters are not afraid nor ashamed to rise to their feet and express their thanks for blessings received. All sisters meet on the same level of equality, and our convert finds that the highly educated women, as well as those of lesser education, have problems which they take to their Heavenly Father. This fosters a feeling of belonging and is of inestimable value, and is a great source of encouragement. The spiritual value of these experiences cannot be measured, nor expressed. The visiting teacher lesson comes in for its share of attention. What is more interesting than to be a visiting teacher? This gives one the opportunity to visit those members of the Church who do not, or cannot, come to the church services, or who, for some other reason, have become inactive. It gives an opportunity to contact the homebound, the ill, the working mothers—and who needs the Relief Society more than this type of person? It gives us an opportunity, through friendliness, to build up confidence in the minds of those who do not come, to sell Relief Society THROUGH THE EYES OF A CONVERT to them, and inspire them with the desire and determination to attend the meetings, if at all possible. And then there comes the work meeting, with its lessons in homemaking and its time spent in doing some constructive work, either for those less fortunate than ourselves, or for the teaching of some handicraft, which will be of benefit in the home. By the end of that first month the convert is convinced that she has indeed joined a group that is truly interested in the life of its members. In the literature lesson, she is taken on a visit to the country of the author's birth; she learns of his home, his life, his early struggles, and is introduced to his works. This teacher, also, has put considerable time and effort into preparing her lesson, and has inspired a new (or revived) interest in literature in the mind and heart of our convert. And the social science lessons! What a blessing they are, and how much the teacher of this course can influence a newcomer! Later, when she realizes the magnitude of the welfare work that this group is concerned with, her faith and confidence are strengthened. She becomes fully aware of the fact that the Relief Society does, indeed, extend a love-inspired service to humanity. Its breadth of activity, its unselfishness, and concern for all humanity are recognized, and one's ideals and aspirations heightened and a new desire is formulated within her heart. She wants to lead a devoted Christian life; she wishes to be of service to her Heavenly Father and to humanity. 185 f the Stnging Birds"' While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest and summer and winter, and day and night, shall not cease... And 4 will remember my covenant; which is between me and you, and every living creature.. That is upon the earth (Genesis 8:22; 9:15-16). In this brief space of time when: the vernal equinox turns the ~ earth towards summer in the northern lands, and to winter beneath the southern skies, there comes to all who live upon the earth a rejoicing in the seasons which seem steadfast even in variations of sun and cloud and storm. A reliance upon an ancient promise and the ''"covenant between God and every living thing'' can be a source of quiet comfort and. A renewal of gratitude for the opportunities which earth life has given us.

It is well that in the time of the turning of the seasons we remember that it was by our own choice and with the blessings of our Heavenly Father that we were. Granted our time of mortality. To each woman in her own time and place the springtime has a different and an individual meaning, a significance that partakes of depths and heights, and delves into the mysteries of seed and root, and all reaching things — the buds on the cherry trees and the topmost leaves of the poplar. Perhaps a farm woman will measure the first days of springtime by the greening of the winter wheat on land that lies between the mountains and the place of home. A city woman may observe the increased activities of sparrows who braved the winter and greet the first warm days with a tremendous chirping. In the suburbs it may be observed that rakes and hoes and packages of seeds become the tools of women who have been winterbound too long.