[Vol52 | March 1965 | Page 224 | Home | Framed Beauty LaVon | B. Olsen]
My neighbor and I play a game. We place an imaginary frame around beauty. If one sees a striking scene, she calls, "Come,, let us frame a picture."' We meet and, with a wave of the arm we strike a boundary, after we decide what to include for beauty and balance, as does an artist painting landscapes. On a morning following a lashing winter blizzard, we venture out to slice out a section of the high Wasatch Mountain range to the east, at whose feet our town nestles. All is snowbound, and thoroughly clean, vegetation and trees methodically frosted. We place the frame to enclose an expanse of mountains where fog patches snuggle promiscuously in forked canyons, and raise it to include a line of clear, cobalt sky that presses the horizon. Against the frame's edge, we may align some frizzed boughs of evergreen pine in our dooryard, for foreground interest. We take time and pride in these delightful painting projects. When our scene is outlined to our satisfaction, we stand back and enjoy it. Another winter scene may be the huge snowman on our spacious lawn, the cooperative effort of all neighborhood children. We maneuver to get a good perspective of stovepipe hat, carrot nose, coal eyes, and angled broom in a crooked arm. This requires a rectangle outline to include the snow-burdened lilac tree and bridal wreath against the house. We frame it deep to catch the myriad tromped tracks in the foreground, and wide to include the spider-web design of miniature dirt roads bared by rolled snowballs leading in. Possibly, after a siege of fog, when glistening tinsel clings tenaciously to everything tangible, we may decide to frame the towering weeping-willow tree on the corner. Hoary with frost, all of its lithe branches are reverently bowed, as if in prayer. Telephone poles, strung with fleecy, white wool yarn, trail off down the street. These we cut in, for added interest. FRAMED BEAUTY In June, we may meet and frame the first, fresh, full-blown Peace rose. We meditate with care just where to place an oval frame for this close-up. Beside the rose, we angle in a single bud and some distinct leaf pattern foliage. Flowers are for framing! Sunset scenes are the most colorful, but require faster decisions since they are fleeting. Often we strike a boundary around a peaceful, pink panorama, with emphasis on smooth evenness of clouds. We lower it to enclose projecting horizon angles and the reflective mauve on shadowed, gray mountains. Or we may catch on our canvas an area above the horizon, and watch only rampant, red clouds, resembling fireballs, vying for position. Sometimes in summer, we even frame what my neighbor calls scrapple — anything one is not happy to own — a cobbled, sagging barn and fence, with a wagon-wide barnyard gate, tired, off focus, dragging on its hinges. We enclose some gnarled cottonwood trees against the frame's edge. The leaf-greens and board-browns in the scene are striking. And in autumn, when every leaf becomes a flower, we are tempted to embrace the whole great east mountain in one sweep. Yellow quaking-aspen patches, orange oaks in profusion, and scarlet maple blotches combine to create a riot of color, subdued intermittently by unchanging pines. Impressive landscapes can be framed everywhere. A meandering stream, with banks edged with blooming pink tamarisk, making a cut in mountains and sky; wagon-rutted country lanes lined with poplar trees; close-ups of sego lilies or Indian paintbrushes, nestled against gray sage on low foothills; or acres of bluebells in early summer along the Sky-line Drive, against a solid, sloping background of dark junipers. This artwork requires just a bit of a sense of proportion and an eye for the beautiful. Indeed, the subjects are everywhere if seen in sections, seen with tourist eyes — with artist eyes. Frame beauty. It is fun!
