[Vol52 | March 1965 | Page 190 | Special Feature | Latter-day Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England | Claire Noall]
[Latter-day Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England Claire Noall]

Latter-day Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England

Claire Noall

TRANSPARENCIES BY THE AUTHOR

"OH, my . . . will you look at that!" I exclaimed, as Matthew and I drove along the foot of Pendle Hill in the valley of the River Ribble, Lancashire, England. Against rain blue clouds hanging low over the hill, and against vivid green slopes, great patches of purple heather heralded the glory I had come to find. The hill dominates the river just before it bends northward into Yorkshire. I had come to see the cities and villages of the earliest Latter-day Saint mission in foreign lands and to bring to life, for myself, the work of the elders who labored in Preston and the surrounding area under the leadership of Heber C. Kimball, in 1837.

The group of missionaries, which included Elders Orson Hyde, Willard Richards, Joseph Fielding, and others, arrived in Liverpool three days after Queen Victoria had become ruler of the British Empire. The first Latter-day Saint sermon in the British Isles was delivered by Heber C. Kimball on the Sabbath, July 23, 1837, in Preston, Lancashire. These brethren established the Church in Northern England so strongly that today the saints of this area comprise many staunch centers of devotion and activity.*

Before we reached the valley of the River Ribble we had enjoyed a glorious drive from Southern England as my husband and I moved through the pages of history from Stonehenge, to our own period of time. We had seen St. Ives and Lynton, villages on the Bristol Channel, from which Matthew's paternal grandparents had emigrated to Utah. We had visited Southwark Cathedral, where two of my great-grandparents were married.

In London, we recalled the hardships of Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball on his second mission in 1840. We knew how they had tried to publish The Book of Mormon there. But a real joy coursed through my veins when we later visited the John Benbow farm in the Malvern Hills near Ledbury, about a hundred and twenty miles south of Preston. From the faithful convert, John Benbow, Brigham Young obtained the funds which made possible the printing of the Book of Mormon in England.

*See Nibley, Preston: The British Mission, The Relief Society Magazine, April 1956, p. 218
Whitney, Orson F.: Life of Heber C. Kimball, pp. 113-204

190

LATTER-DAY SAINT TRAILS ALONG RIVER RIBBLE

We reached the Benbow farm from Ledbury just in time for a picture of the tiny pool where Wilford Woodruff, in 1840, baptized some 500 converts. I stood for a moment in prayer before the house where Willard Richards once took Brigham Young to meet "Brother John." I knew that John Benbow had again provided funds for the Church when he gave his bond for the Prophet Joseph Smith in Carthage, Illinois. In the deepening light, I remembered how Sister Benbow had left these peaceful acres for Nauvoo, Illinois. She died from fever on the banks of the Mississippi River.

The focal point of our journey, Preston, is located thirty miles north of Liverpool, near the mouth of the Ribble, well within the tidal waters of the Irish Sea. My blood tingled when I was led by a devout sister from the chapel where we had attended sacrament meeting, along the path of our earliest missionaries in Preston.

We paused on the bank of the river where the first Latter-day Saint baptisms occurred in England. On the eighth day after the arrival of the elders in Preston, nine converts went into the water. Among them was Ann Elizabeth Walmsley, who was crippled, and whose husband carried her into the Ribble. Miraculously, after her baptism she walked up the bank on her own two feet.

I saw Pole Street, near the factories of the city, where the Walmsleys lived, and the home of Sister Jane Dawson, where Heber C. Kimball roomed. In this house much important business for the Church was transacted.

From Stoney Gate, we saw the historic "Cock Pit." It is a "commodious" building having circular rows of seats, formerly used as a "sporting" arena.

We walked to Vauxhall Chapel, the scene of Elder Kimball's first sermon in Lancashire. In the market place at the foot of the obelisk (an English-constructed monument), Brother Kimball explained the gospel to Jennetta Richards. This girl, the younger daughter of the independent minister at Walkerfold (some twenty winding miles above Preston), had heard of the healing of Sister Walmsley. Two days after hearing her first sermon Jennetta requested baptism. She was confirmed at the water's edge, and thus became the first to receive this blessing in England. Later, when about to leave in a cart for home, her eyes filled with tears. "Oh, what shall I tell my father?" she asked Elder Kimball.

"Tell him exactly what you have done," he replied, "and ask him to invite me to preach in his chapel."

The Reverend Richards gave the invitation. Sadly for him, more than half of his small parish went over to the Mormons. Walkerfold became the nucleus of many branches.

We drove over Longridge Fell, a long-crested hill and found it brilliant with heather. Here Jennetta walked with Willard Richards to conference at Ribchester. This town, once a Roman fort on the Ribble, still bears the sign of the White Bull Inn, which the elders saw in 1837.

191
