[Vol52 | March 1965 | Page 174 | Special Feature | Teaching Truths to Tots Lila | B. Walch]
[Teaching Truths to Tots Lila B. Walch]

truths to lots THROUGH THE FAMILY HOME EVENING Lila B. Walch Member, General Board of Relief Society A sHorRT time ago a son, nearly ready to return from a mission in Sweden, wrote to his parents and said, "I think you should know that of my last three companions each one plans to rear his family just as you have reared yours. You see, I've been telling them some of the things we do in our family, especially all about our home evenings, and _ they plan to do it just as we do." This fortunate young man had been reared in a home that began holding home evenings when he was only three years old. His parents had read in President Joseph F. Smith's book Gospel Doctrine: There is no substitute for the home.. The home has been the chief characteristic of superior over inferior nations. The home then is more than a habitation, it is an institution which stands for stability and love in individuals as well as nations (Third Edition, page 375). The parents of this missionary took seriously President Smith's statement: Not one child in a hundred would go astray if the home environment, example and training, were in _ har- 174 mony with the truth in the gospel of Christ, as revealed and taught to the

Latter-day Saints (page 378). And so, they started holding their weekly home evenings years ago with their two sons, Larry, age three, and Verle, eighteen months. There was wisdom in beginning early. The home evening habit should be started when children are small for conditions are ideal at that time. Parents can have the little ones all to themselves, since there are not many demands on the time of small children. In the missionary's home the evening was an occasion to be anticipated. It was never called 'Family Hour." An hour! Why in an hour they just barely got started. As the years passed, four more lovely children were added to the family. Church responsibilities increased as did home duties. Every hour was filled to the very brim with tasks that had to be accomplished: baking, cleaning, cooking, sewing, music _ lessons, school work, yard work, Church work, making a living. How breathlessly busy they were! As wise parents, however, they had learned that it was important to : and the érandparents) ecture by the could hardly Wait for Evening to MARCH 1965 arms and sat quietly as Wilson gave the prayer, expressing appreciation to the Heavenly Father for their many blessings and that they could hold their Family Home Evening. First on the program was singing. Allison was told it was her turn to direct, and Wilson was asked to accompany. Grandmother wondered how this could be since she knew the children's home had no piano. To Wilson it was no problem. He sat down in a low chair, pulled another in front of him and began running his hands across the seat of the chair as if he were accompanying a great choir. Allison directed with almost perfect rhythm. As Primary and Sunday School songs were sung with joy and feeling, the words of President Joseph F. Smith came to mind, Good music is gracious praise. Of God. It is delightsome to the ear, and it is one of our most acceptable methods of worshipping God (Gospel Doctrine, page 325). At the conclusion of the evening, Grandpa was asked to tell a story. He picked up the Bible and from it told the story of the Prophet Samuel. The children listened attentively and _ they learned. The following night when it was time for the goodnight story of their choice, they brought the Bible to their mother and asked to hear about the Prophet Samuel again. Little children love to hear stories from the scriptures and the truths of the gospel, especially when taught by their parents. Great strength will come to our homes as we are faithful in following the program of teaching the gospel in the home through the Family Home Evening. And above all else, let us train our children in the principles of the gospel of our Savior, that they may become familiar with the truth and walk in the light which it sheds forth to all those who will receive it. Seeketh me early," the Lord has said, "shall find me" (Ibid, page 370). { 4 ad ead ry VUREE Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue The April 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, featuring four outstanding short stories. Watch for these stories in April: '""A Swedish Conversion,'' by Melva Taylor Gleave "Love Thy Neighbour,"' by Helen Hooper "The Image,'' by Sara O. Moss "A State of Mind,'' by Lael J.