But Little Lower Than Angels By Harrison R. Merrill opinion regarding hot weather, Old Timers were fond of saying, "It's a hundred 'n ten in the shade, an' they ain't no shade." Or they might say, "It's hot enough to fry aigs." And that's the way it's been this summer. But this dissertation hasn't as much to do with hot weather as with men; and the Psalmist sang that men were made but "little lower than the angels." By that, I fancy, he meant that men were considerably higher than animals. The animals, bless their hearts, are more like animated toys than they are like men. Mother Nature wound them up a long time ago— I don't know how many generations —and they have to unwind according to plan. O, it's true that every animal doesn't have to follow in detail the exact pattern that was cut out for his family, but generally speaking he does. He can move around a bit more than a tree, but certainly not more than that little plant called a microbe, but he's a toy in the hands of Nature, just the same. Nature gave animals, as suits of clothes, shells or feathers or hair or fur or wool or whatnot. Mr. Beaver had fur; Mr. Ram had wool; Mr. Crab had a shell; Mr. Rooster had feathers. The kind Mother even made all necessary arrangements for changes of suits. She tucked a little spring away somewhere within the mechanism in such a manner that automatically it is touched off by the snows of winter or the heat of spring, and, presto! Mr. Rooster or Mr. Beaver has a brand new suit of summer B. V. D.'s or a gorgeous 1: they wanted to express an winter turnout of glistening fur. The animal doesn't seem to have anything to do with his haberdashery. Man was paid a divine compliment when Nature left all such little spring's out of his makeup. (It may be that he once had them and got tired of them. Be that as it may, he doesn't seem to have them now, at any rate.) Man has been given a spark of divinity that makes all such mechanistic things unnecessary. He can wear summer suits in the winter, if he wants to, and he can wear sixteen ounce broadcloth on the Fourth of July if he likes. That is, being "little lower than the angels," he is given avast amount of choice in the matter. Man must be somewhat of a disappointment to the kind Mater who granted him such liberties. He's like a child without experience. He sometimes does queer things. He must look absurd to the steady eyes that have been watching his antics throughout the ages. Since man can change his costume to suit his whim, provided he has the necessary coin, he does just that. This very liberty, however, engenders strange notions. Now Mr. John Beaver looks very much like Mr. Sam Beaver, and moreover, Mr. John wears almost exactly the same sort of suit as Mr. Sam enjoys. He hasn't much choice in the matter, for Mother Nature relieved him of all such perplexities. But Mr. John Brown doesn't look much like Mr. Sam Brown. One is dark the other light; one is slender, the other stout; consequently, since they have a choice, Mr. John Brown wears plaids to camouflage his bean- BUT LITTLE LOWER THAN ANGELS stock frame, whereas, on the other hand, Mr. Sam Brown wears stripes running longitudinally hoping that the eye of the spectator will follow the parallel lines up and off into the atmosphere somewhere without taking note of Sam's rotundity. But with all his powers of choice, Man does not like to look entirely different from his neighbors for fear he will be mistaken for some other animal—therefore, he becomes a stylist. He wants differences, but he also wants similarities. He learns to want similarities in his differences with such fervor that not infrequently he does odd things. Unlike the animals and the women, he doesn't do much about observing the changes in the weather. Fashion says that the man should wear a suit, a shirt, underwear of some sort, and in addition he must wear a collar, a tie, a pair of hose, garters, and a pair of shoes. To the collegian the garters do not seem a necessity. Fashion goes farther, here in the Occident and says the suit must be made of wool and the whatnots and wherefores of silk or some other substance, according to the weight of the money purse. 'When it is a hundred in the shade and there is no shade, the man swelters. If he is forced to remove his coat to save his very life, he apologizes weakly. Being but little lower than the angels, he was built like a god. He was made to stand upright in order that he could get the advantages of cool winds; he was given an epidermis that is the envy of all lower animals—if they have any power of envy. That skin of his is wonderfully made. Perforated with millions of little wells— artesian wells they are in hot weather—it can always keep him cool by the simple process of evaporation. The Man doesn't have tc 517 pant like a dog or seek a wallow like a hog. All he needs to do is to. Stand up or lie down and allow his millions of tiny artesian wells to flow. They will draw off the heat with the water that rises in the form of perspiration. But man has fallen a victim to fashion. He caps his wells with wool brought from a sheep's back or he obstructs them with silk from some nasty worm's stomach or with cotton from a fluffy boll. Fashion says four thicknesses of clothing over most of his body, and so, he deliberately chooses to look like a lobster fresh from the pot. The heat naturally has no way of escape except through the skin of his face —and perhaps his head, if he has been fortunate enough to lose his hair, the only bit of covering that links him with his neighbors, the animals. Woman, not having the same weighty opinion of her importance as man, seems to have learned faster. Finding herself without fur or wool or feathers, she pretty well remained without them or has now come to live pretty much without them. In gossamer gowns without sleeves and without collar or tie, she can, on the hottest day, maintain in a perfectly dry state, the powder on her dainty nose. With a million artesian wells open to the air she smiles at a hundred and ten in the shade. Why some man with ideas does not step forward with some new designs in men's clothing is much of a mystery to me. So long as we have sheep, tarrif on wool, and woolen factories we cannot expect relief from the regular channels. Someone looking for comfort, not coins of the realm, must set the fashion. Why shouldn't a man have a sleeveless shirt, an open neck, a sun- 518 tan back if he wants them, I'd like to know? Why shouldn't he, too, wear gossamer and lace, silks and georgettes? By next summer the new styles may be here—who knows? The man starts out bravely in May wearing his whole ensemble and a very RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE perfect smile, but as June ripens into July and July into August without much relief, his pride of style gives ground before his demand for comfort. His memory some day may last through the winter. In that case he may become properly dressed for summer in June.
