VoL. XVIII SEPTEMBER, 1931 No. 9 EDITORIAL Covered Wagon Days Celebration NNIVERSARY celebrations play an important part in keeping in memory people and events. The Covered Wagon Days celebration, held in Salt Lake City July 24, 25 and 26, brought vividly to mind the hardships and struggles and victories of the intrepid pioneers. Thousands paid loving homage to the pioneers who wrought so well, labored so faithfully, and established homes, hamlets and cities beyond the outposts of civilization in the western desert. The realization was borne in upon many as the parade wended its way through the streets that they were enjoying the fruits of the labors of these pathfinders and homebuilders. It was a fine thing to see how all united to make the celebration a success. Not only did the citizenry and various organizations of Salt Lake City enter into the spirit of the occasion, but different parts of the state sent floats and in other ways cooperated. The parade, the dedication at the airport, the pageant at the Univesity of Utah stadium, and the sacred services in the Tabernacle were the features of the occasion, and each was successful and enjoyed by many thousands. The spirit of covered wagon days came back and the children and children's children of those noble men and women received a new sense of values and a new impulse welled up within them to live worthy of their illustrious ancestors. The spirit that moved the people of covered wagon days was wonderful. Their trust in God was supreme, their belief in his loving watchcare, his unlimited power, his matchless wisdom, was unshakable. They were EDITORIAL sure that though clouds might lower, though hardships were severe, he would in his own way and in his own time provide; darkness would be illuminated by light, difficulties would be overcome, because he was an ever present help to them. He was as the shelter of a rock on the burning sands. They had gained a wonderful victory for external conditions were subordinated to the things of the spirit. Despoiled of earthly possessions yet w廨e they rich. In times of hunger they were filled with his spirit so that they knew he would provide for them as surely as he sent manna for the children of Israel. They were happy in poverty and under the most adverse circumstances. They learned to adjust themselves to every condition. They were friends tried and true, ready to 527 share whatever they had with their neighbors who were new comers in their midst. To them life was more than meat and the body than raiment. Nothing could separate them from the love and guidance of their Father. They felt they could do all things through Christ who strengthened them. We need the spirit of Covered Wagon Days today. We need to trust in God and do good. We need to subdue the things of the flesh to the things of the spirit. We need to be iess selfish and to live in a brotherhood of love as did they. All honor to those stalwarts who made the desert blossom, who builded so enduringly, who lived such wonderful lives, and who were true to God and country, and who loyally lived the truth. Worse Than War HE TRAVELERS INSURANCE COMPANY has issude a book containing some "Impressive Statistics and Facts" regarding the loss of life and injuries caused by automobile accidents in 1930. It points out that 50,510 members of the American Expeditionary Forces were killed in action and died of wounds, during eighteen months of the World War; and that 50,900 were killed in automobile accidents during the past eighteen months. In 1930, 962,325 were injured. The following quotations from this book give food for thought: "Three specific driving violations by operators of automobiles were responsible, in whole or in part, for 68 per cent of the 1930 accidents due to improper driving. They were exceeding the speed limit, driving on the wrong side of the road, and failing to grant the right-of-way. "More than 7,000 pedestrians met death during the year in automobile accidents primarily through their own fault, while approximately 2,300 other pedestrians were killed because of the actions of drivers. In the death of more than 5,000 other pedestrians, the responsibility was shared jointly. "More automobile accidents resulting in both deaths and injuries happened upon Sunday than any other day of the week, notwithstanding the fact that upon the Sabbath there is less traffic congestion in towns and cities and fewer pedestrians abroad than on any other day of the week. "Approximately 77 per cent of all the motor vehicles involved in accidents causing deaths and non-fatal injuries in 1930 were cars of the 528 private passenger type, though such cars represented 8/7 per cent of the total motor vehicle registration in the country. "Records indicate that men were behind the wheel in 93 out of every 100 cars in accidents causing deaths and non-fatal injuries in 1930, with women being the drivers in the remaining seven. "Road conditions in both fatal and non-fatal automobile accidents in 1930 were ideal for the most part, the report shows. The figures reveal that in practically 80 per cent of the mishaps causing fatalities, road surfaces were dry, and that in more than 80 per cent of the nonRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fatal accidents, the same thing was true. "Far more men are killed in automobile accidents than women, the number of men being more than 76 per cent of the total and for women, in excess of 23 per cent of the total. "The things which pedestrians do that are wrong include crossing intersections against signal lights, crossing intersections diagonally, crossing in the middle of the block, hitch hiking, darting out into thoroughfares from behind parked cars, and walking with instead of against the traffic stream on dark highways after sundown. Such actions caused the death of more than 8000 last year." One Blind from Birth Made to See pee tN G things often lead to wonderful results, but seldom to such startling consequences as in the case of Earl Musselman. Last winter a Sunday School teacher of the First Reformed Church of West Philadelphia was ill, and asked Dr. Moore to speak to his class. The doctor talked on "Vision" and read the parable of the boy who was born blind and was cured by the Savior. (See John, Chapter 9.) In this class was Earl Musselman who had been born blind. He listened attentively; his face brightened; and at the close of the talk he said he had determined to become a Christian. Sometime after this, Earl's uncle, an optometrist, met Dr. Moore at a wholesale optical house, and said, "Doctor, I believe you can make that boy see." After studying the case for seven weeks, Dr. Moore said that while he had never performed just such an operation, he believed it would be successful. Seventyfive physicians had previously examined the boy and felt that his case was hopeless. Many of these now tried to dissuade Dr. Moore. Scores and scores of letters were received protesting against the folly of attempting the impossible, but Dr. Moore went forward with kis preparations. Praying continuously for guidance. When about to perform the difficult operation, Dr. Moore, as was his wont, prayed earnestly. The patient's nervousness left him, and Dr. Moore with steady hands performed the delicate operation. After two and one-half days the bandages were removed. The doctor asked, "Earl, can you see me?" "Plainly, doctor, plainly," replied the ecstatic boy. When the doctor was asked if he was puffed up with pride over his marvelous achievement which had attracted world-wide attention, he replied calmly, "Not at all; rather the reverse. I have only a great feeling of humility that I have been privileged to do this thing. It is not I of myself who did it, but God working through me; to him belongs the credit, not to me."
