Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in November ) Book or MorMon—JosePH SMITH's Contacts WITH THE ANGEL Moroni Select Readings: Read First Nephi, chapters 11 to 14, inclusive. Make notes of the ideas revealed to Nephi respecting the future. Before we begin our study of the teachings of the Book of Mormon, however, and the things about it that would be difficult for a boy of Joseph Smith's age, education, and experience to put into a book, 'we must know just how we got this interesting volume. It used to be claimed by mnon- "Mormon" critics of the Nephite record that 'Sidney Rigdon either stole or borrowed a manuscript written by a Mr. Solomon Spaulding, that he touched it up a bit, adding the atmosphere of religion, and then that he gave the revamped manuscript to Joseph Smith, who published it under his own name. This theory is not now accepted by anyone who has gone to the trouble of looking up the facts in the case. There are too many loopholes in the argument to commend it to a well informed student of "Mormonism." And so we may dismiss this "explanation" without any further attention. Modern critics of the 'Book of Mormon have come to the conclusion that the work originated with the Prophet somehow. Only, they do not believe that the Lord had anything to do with it, as the Saints claim. Here is Joseph Smith's own story of its origin: "On the evening of September 21, 1823, I retired to my bed for the night. I betook myself to prayer and supplication to God for forgivesess of all my sins and follies, and also for a manifestation to me, that I might know of my state and standing before him. For I had full confidence in obtaining a _ divine manifestation, as I previously had done. "While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor. "He had on a loose robe of most exquisite whiteness. It was a whiteness beyond anything earthly I had ever seen; nor do I believe that any earthly thing could be made so exceedingly white and brilliant. His hands were naked, and his arms also, a little above the wrist; so, also, were his feet naked, as were his legs, a little above the ankles. His head and neck were also bare. I could discover that he had no other clothing on but this robe, as it was open, so that I could see into his bosom. Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his countenance truly like lightning. The room was exceedingly light, but not iso very bright as immediately around his person. "When I first looked upon him, I was afraid; but the fear soon left me. He called me by name, and said unto me that he was a messenger sent from the presence of God to me, and that his name was Moroni; that God had a work for me to do; and that my name should be had for good and evil among all 530 nations, kindreds, and tongues. He said there was a book deposited, written upon gold plates, giving an account of the former inhabitants of this continent, and the source from whence they sprang. He also said that the fulness of the everlasting gospel was contained in it, as delivered by the Savior to the ancient inhabitants; also, that there were two stones in silver bows—the urim and thummim—deposited with the plates; that God had prepared them for the purpose of translating the book. "He told me that when I got those plaites—for the time that they should be obtained was not yet fulfilled—I should not show them to any person; neither the breastplate with the urim and thummim; only to those to whom I should be commanded; if I did I should be destroyed. While he was conversing with me about the plates, the vision was opened to my mind that I could see the place where the plates were deposited, and that so clearly and clistinctly that 1 knew the place again when I visited it. "After this communication, I saw the light in the room begin to gather immediately around the person of him who had been speaking to me, and it continued to do so, until the room was again left dark, except just around him, when instantly I saw, as it were, a conduit open right up into heaven, and he ascended until he entirely disappeared, and the room was left as it had been before this heavenly light, had mede its appearance. "T lay musing on the singularity of the scene and marveling greatly at what had been told to me by this extraordinary messenger, when, in the midst of my meditation, I suddenly discovered that my room was again beginning to get lighted. In RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE an instant, as it were, the same heavenly messenger was again at my bedside. "Tle commenced, and again related the very same things which he had done at his first visit, without the least variation; which having done, he informed me of great judgments which were coming upon the earth, with great desolations by famine, sword, and pestilence; and that these grievous Judgments would come on the earth in this generation. Having related these things, he again ascended as he had done before. "By this time, so deep were the impressions made on my mind, that sleep had fled from my eyes, and 1 lay overwhelmed in astonishment at what I had both seen and heard. But what was my surprise when again I beheld the same messenger at my bedside, and heard him rehearse or repeat over again to me the same things as before; adding a caution to me that Satan would try to tempt me (in consequence of the indigent circumstances 'of my father's family) to get the plates for the purpose of getting rich. This he forbade me, saying that I must have no other object in view in getting the plates but to glorify God, and must not be influenced by any other motive than that of building up his kingdom. Otherwise I could not get them. 'After this third visit, he again ascended into heaven as before, and I was again left to ponder on the strangeness of what I had just experienced. Almost immediately after the heavenly messenger had ascended from me the third time, the cock crowed, and I found that day was approaching, so that our interviews must have occupied the whole of that night. "T shortly after arose from my bed and, as usual, went to the neces- LESSON DEPARTMENT sary labors of the day. But in attempting to work as at other times, I found my strength so exhausted as to render me entirely unable. My father, who was laboring along with me, discovered something to be wrong with me, and told me to go home. I started with the intention of going to the house; but, in attempting to cross the fence out of the field where we were, my strength entirely failed me, and I fell helpless on the ground, and for a time was quite unconscious of anything. "The first thing that I can recollect was a voice speaking unto me, calling me by name. I looked up, and beheld the same messenger standing over my head, surrounded by light as before. "He then again related unto me all that he had related to me the previous night, and commanded me to go to my father and tell him the vision and commandments which I had received. I obeyed. I returned to my father in the field, and rehearsed the whole matter to him. He replied to me that it was of God, and told me to go and do as commanded by the messenger. I left the field and went to the place where the messenger had told me the plates were deposited. "Convenient to the village of Manchester, Ontario county, New York, stands a hill of considerable size, and the most elevated of any in the neighborhood. On the west side of this hill, not far from the top, under a stone of considerable size, lay the plates, deposited in a stone box. Having removed the earth, I obtained a lever, which I got fixed under the edge of the stone, and with a little exertion raised it up. I looked in, and there indeed did I behold the plates, the urim and thummim, and the breastplate, as stated by the messenger. "T made an attempt to take them out, but was forbidden by the mes- 55 senger. I was again informed that the time for bringing them forth had not yet arrived, neither would it, until four years from that time. But he told me that I should come to that place precisely in one year from that time, and that he would there meet with me, and that I should continue to do so until the time should come for obtaining the plates. "Accordingly, I went at the end of each year, and at each time I found the same messenger there, and received instruction and intelligence from him at each of our interviews, respecting what the Lord was going to do, and how and in what manner his kingdom was to be conducted in the last days. "At length the time arrived for obtaining the plates, the urim and thummim, and the breastplate. 'On the twenty-second day of September, 1827, having gone as usual at the end of another vear to the place where they were deposited, the same heavenly messenger delivered them up to me with this charge: that I should be responsible for them; that if I should let them go carelessly, or through any neglect of mine, I should be cut off; but that if I would use all my endeavors to preserve them, until he should call for them, they should be protected.. "In April, 1828, Martin Harris commenced writing for me, while I translated from the plates. This continued until the fourteenth of June, by which time he had written one hundred sixteen pages of manuscript, on foolscap paper. With iny permission, reluctantly given, he took this manuscript to show some of his relatives. Meantime, I went on a visit to my father's family in Manchester. For, persecution having become intolerable there, I had been under the necessity of going with my wife to Harmony, Penne 532 sylvania, where the translation was done. "Immediately after my return home, I was walking out a little distance, when the former heavenly messenger appeared and handed me the urim and thummim again—for it had been taken from me in consequence of my having wearied the Lord in asking for the privilege of letting Martin Harris take the writings, which he lost by transgression. \ "After I had obtained a revelation from the Lord through the urim and « thummim, both the plates and the \\urim and thummim were taken from + me again. Ss But in a few days they were returned to me. "By the wisdom of God the plates remained safe in my hands, until I had accomplished by them what was required. When, according to arrangements, the messenger called for them. I delivered them up to him; and he has them in his charge until this day (May 2, 1838)." If we take the trouble to count the number of contacts Joseph Smith had with Moroni, we shall find that they are seventeen, counting only those the prophet himself enumerates. They are: September, 1823, five; in the same months of the years 1824, 1825, 1826, 1827, four; in June, 1828, three: in June, 1829, four; and once, the last time presumably, when he delivered the plates to the messenger. It is highly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE probable, however, from the narrative of the Prophet's mother that there were other occasions when he saw and conversed with the angel. As to the fact of Moroni's having been raised from the dead, we have the Prophet's own statement to that effect in his Autobiography. It was not a spirit that appeared to Joseph Smith, but a man who had been raised from the dead, one who had been immortalized. WAL; J 1 Ome, } U v 1. Tell briefly the story of how we got the Book of Mormon. 2. Note these things about the Prophet's narration of the event: Its simplicity, its directness, its neglect of such details as would merely appeal to curiosity, its air of telling what actually happened, the complete absence of anything that savors of self assertiveness. 3. How many contacts did Joseph have with the messenger? How far apart were they? How long were some of the "interviews?" What do you suppose they talked about? 4. Is it probable that heavenly beings visit anyone here except when there is something of great importance to communicate? If, then, anyone tells you that an angel, or one of the three Nephites, visited him or her, what test would you apply? Work and Business (This topic is to be given at the special visiting Teachers' Training meeting. ) TEACHER'S Topic FOR NOVEMBER Watchword: this house."—Luke 10:5. Text: "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to "But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you."—Matthew 6:33. When asked the meaning of the kingdom of God, 'Jesus answered saying, '""My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my _ servants fight, that I should not be delivered LESSON DEPARTMENT to the Jews: but now is my kingdom not from hence."—John 18:36. "For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power.'-—I Corinthians 4:20. "For the kingdom of God is not meat and drink; but righteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost."—Romans 14:17. To more fully understand the text the preceding verses should be read. The admonition is therefore, to take ' no thought of the morrow; for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself, or as it is expressed in the Book of Mormon, "sufficient is the day unto the evil thereof." — III Nephi 13:34. All these things: food, clothing, drink, enlightenment of mind, vigor of body, need not worry the mind of him who trusts implicitly in the power and providence of God, and seeks earnestly his kingdom and the righteous things of the world. "Therefore, take ye no thought for the morrow, for what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, or wherewithal ye shall be clothed. "For, consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither do they spin; and the kingdoms of the world, in all their glory, are not arrayed like one of these. "For your Father, who is in heaven, knoweth that you have need of all these things.'"—Doctrine and Covenants 84:81-83. To consider the daily work and conversation of the Master during the few years of which we have record while in the flesh is to see how He interpreted the advice to "Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness." We read that— He went around doing good; lived the simple life; rebuked the selfish; cleansed the leper; raised the dead; called sinners to repentance; forgave sin; taught how to pray; made the lame to walk; cast out evil spirits; —y made 'the blind to see; calmed the tempest. Are we seeking the kingdom of God, or are we seeking the kingdom of selfishness, pleasure or power? The kingdom of God is within, as the Savior said. The greatest of all power is in man's own soul. It resides in him by virtue of his kinship to the Divine. How can we best follow the admonition of the master, to "seek first the kingdom of God?" To be of greatest service in the cause of the Lord, the Relief Society woman must put aside personal desires, be forgetful of self, have a deep love for the work, apply herself wholeheartedly to her work, and regardless of opposition or outside influence, must live and teach the gospel. Early history of the Church tells us how some of the members, because of opposition and persecution, had not faith strong enough to forsake the material things in life for the spiritual ones. Many on the other hand, regardless of hardships, lived and taught the principles of the Gospel under trying circumstances, always trusting in the Lord for his divine guidance and protection. It is those who are full of faith, devoted to the truth, and who enter upon their work with full determination to progress its cause, that serve the best. "There is no man that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children, for the kingdom of Gad's sake, "Who shall not receive manifold more in this present time, and in the world to come life everlasting." —Luke 18:29-30. "Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven."—Matthew 7:21. 534 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Literature (Third Week in November ) Norway Norway, like Denmark, was slow to develop a national literature. Two collectors of folklore, Asbjornsen and Moe, helped to make younger writers conscious of the material to be found in their native Norway. Up until 1814 Norway was a part of Denmark. Then at the treaty of Vienna, Norway became a part monarchy with Sweden. (In 1905 Norway became a separate country, ruled by Haakon VII.) Encouraged by her new political life, she began to develop a national literature. Asbjornsen and Moe, who had been country boys and friends, followed the work of the Grimm brothers in Germany, and decided that they would write down the folk lore of Norway. In 1841, a period when America was just becoming short story conscious, they published their first volume of tales. "The Smith Who Could Not Get Into Hell" is a humorous tale from this collection. To the world outside of the Scandinavian countries Ibsen's name is perhaps the best known. But in Norway there is another name as well known as the great dramatist's. It is that of Bjornsjerne Bjornson, a man who dominated his country for half a century. Not only did he write short stories that truly depicted his countrymen but he was also a poet, a novelist, a dramatist, and a political leader. In the text he is represented by "The Father." Norway has produced many short story writers since Bjornson's time. Two of these men, Johan Bojer and Knut Hansun, have been translated into English and are almost as well known as our own writers. They, along with other men not so well known to us, have profoundly influenced the American short story and novel. One of our most artistic and understanding books of American folk life, 'Giants of the Earth," was written in Norwegian by an American citizen and translated into English. There are but three Norwegian stories in the text and any one is long enough for a day's lesson. Only two of them will be discussed in any detail, "The Smith Who Could Not Get Into Hell" and "The lather." An occasional teacher may prefer Bojer's *'Skobelef," but most of them will find it harder to handle and not so interesting. Very briefly "Skobelef" is the story of a spirited and rather vicious horse, and the effects his coming had upon the - village and his owner in particular. The story about the Smith is artistically written with a religious theme, evidently of the Christian era but still retaining some of the pagan ideas of the gods. It has many of the ear marks of a modern short story—brevity, a limited number of characters who are well drawn, no words wasted either in the introduction or in the climax, no halting episodes, and a touch of fantasy., The main character, the Smith, is a cocksure fellow, one who is not even aware that he is lacking in any knowledge or insight. But he has a certain lusty and cruel sense of humor and is shrewd enough to get his own way. The devil is the old fashioned kind, obliging, tricky, and yet rather stupid, and continually on the look out for any promising souls. He LESSON DEPARTMENT decides that the egotistical Smith will be an easy convert. The bargain is finally made by an appeal to the Smith's vanity. But the Lord and St. Peter are also visiting the earth. They pause at the Smith's long enough to teach him a lesson. Ilowever the Smith is too conceited to learn it and yet shrewd enough to gain a favor from his strange visitors. This favor the Smith uses to outwit the devil. So clever is the Smith that he defrauds the devil of the contract and lives on for many years to boast of his claim of being master of all. After a time the Smith dies. As usual he is in a great hurry to get to his destination and as usual he spends little time in thinking where he had better go. Conceited as he is, he realizes that he has done little to deserve heaven. So he sets off to find his old friend. The devil, who has been three times fooled, refuses to grant the Smith admission. This does not trouble the Smith very much, for he has always had his way, and he decides to try heaven. If he does not get into heaven he is in a bad way—a lost soul doomed to worse things than hell. When he arrives at St. Peter's gate only a tiny crack shows and he is clever enough to hurl his hammer to make a wider wedge. The story ends with the hammer safe in the crack and the Smith in hot haste behind it. The Smith has been the victor in life, but it is a question whether St. Peter will open the door a little further. The story is about a simple people with a simple faith. While the religious questions the tale raises have never been satisfactorily settled for the world at large, it is not read for these things now. Rather it is read because there are still Smiths about us now and the devil is very much the same kind of a fellow. 535 Bjornstjerne Bjornson It is impossible to view Norwegian life or history without the aid of Bjornson. He was born on December 8, 1832, at Kvikne. His father was a minister, who forced religion and education on the wild, ferocious people of the parish. Young Bjornson, brought up in this atmosphere and in the bitter climate, came to feel the fear of God before he learned his love. In his early youth he was headstrong and despised books and school. Other boys of Kvikne might have to attend the pastors' school, but not the pastor's son. He spent his days roaming over the mountains and fjords. Then as he matured he returned to his books and entered the university at Christiania. Ee was a large, handsome youth with a strong, athletic body, frank blue eyes and simple manners. Soon—almost before he began to write—he decided that he was to become a great poet, destined to arouse Norway from her intellectual sleep. And so he was. ''Synnove Solbakken" was proof enough. In this book Norway and Europe realized that a new intellectual leader had arrived. Other men wrote condescendingly of the peasants. Bjornson was but one generation removed from the soil and he knew them and loved them. It was said of him "that his large and spacious mind has a southern exposure and all its windows are thrown open to the sun." He was optimistic and believed that all men had much good in them. In time he became a great figure in the theatrical world. As he approached his late thirties he became doubtful of the simple faith of his childhood. He changed into a skeptical and critical thinker, but never entirely broke with his early faith. A Pe KYU 536 With his new vision he became more interested in political life. Norway has always been a democratic country, where a man's personal worth may be recognized, and Bjornson did much to further equality and to prepare the way for his country's separation from Sweden. A contemporary said of Bjornson, "If he writes a little song, hardly a year elapses before its phrases have passed into the common speech of the people." He understood his country and interpreted it as no other man has done. Like the story of the Smith "The Father' has a religious theme, but it is as different from the former as is a church fair compared with a solemn service in a cathedral. It tells of how a man, made arrogant by the good things of life, found his soul through suffering. The story could be expanded into a volume; yet Bjornson has condensed it into a short short story. It is as sparing in detail, as effective in words and phrases as the story of the prodigal son, who also found his soul through suffering. In a very few words the author describes the father, Thord, a wealthy man, tall and earnest. By means of the brief dialogue, a few scattered sentences, Thord reveals his intense pride, his desire that his son should come before all others, even in baptism and confirmation. Three times Thord appears before the priest, proud and satisfied and deaf to the priest's message. It is not until the fourth time, when death has robbed him, that he sees the better life. Unlike the rich young man of the Bible, he does not ask how he can enter the kingdom of heaven; he finds the way himself and comes to the priest as his first step in the new life. The story of the Smith can be x Ve RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE retold by many people and it will not lose much in the retelling. The story alone suffices. "The Father," however, must be read, every word of it. The loss of one word or phrase might blur the story, which is so perfectly told. It was written to express an idea and emphasis is placed on character rather than plot. Questions "The Father" 1, What evidence is there in this story that the father was a religious man? That he understood the peasants and respected them? 2. What method does the author use to reveal Thord's character? State briefly the kind of impression you receive of Thord. 3. What things in the story show Thord's pride of material things and his indifference to the spiritual ones. 4. How is he made to see the better life? What evidence does Thord give that he will follow his new vision? 5. What racial characteristics are shown in this story? Is the local color so marked that the story loses its universal appeal? 6. How early in the story is the theme indicated? "The Smith Who Could Not Get Into Hell' 1. Why is the story called a folk tale? 2. What was the bargain the Smith made with the devil? 3. Why did the devil pick out the Smith as a likely man to take to hell? 4, What lesson did the Lord and St. Peter try to teach the Smith? 5. Why was it impossible for the Smith to learn the lesson? 6. How did the Smith outwit the devil? 7. What things showed the devil's stupidity? LESSON DEPARTMENT 8. Why was the Smith kept out of hell? 9. Discuss the Smith's chances of getting into heaven? 537 10. What makes this story of earlier ages still interesting? 11. What things in the story give it a pagan touch? Social Service (lfourth Week in November) PERSONALITY STUDY: Maxinc New FRIENDS (Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 42-70) { Note: to be handled in one period. Some have made the observation that these lessons are rather long The intention is to have class leaders choose for discussion only those parts of the material which seem of greatest value. ] "As individuals, our chief task in life is to make our personality, and what our personality has to offer, effective in our particular environment of human beings." (Overstreet.) Carr, from whom we quoted in our last lesson, tells us that our personalities ''make or mar our efficiency in getting along with people.' We have also pointed out that the various traits of personality are largely acquired and that in dealing with the problem of improving these traits it is better not to try to 'handle them all at once but rather a habit or two at a time. Let our present concern then be to consider particularly those suggestions growing out of our knowledge of human nature which will make it easier for us to acquire new friends. In this and the next lesson we shall deal mainly with those parts of our general problem that are relatively easy to apply—matters pertaining to the temporary influencing of human behavior rather than with the more difficult techniques of making profound and lasting changes in people. Of course no one doubts the value of making and having friends. Besides the contribution which friends make to enrich our lives, there are personality benefits in the very process of trying to be friendly with our ordinary associates as well as in so conducting ourselves as to deserve to be considered loyal and true by the relatively few exceptionally choice friends that we may be fortunate enough to have. Our appreciation of friends and friendship has been well expressed in such quotations as the following: "He who has a thousand friends has not a friend to spare, And he who has one enemy shall meet him everywhere." "Tf a man does not make new acquaintances, 'as he advances through life, he will soon find himself left alone. A man, Sir, should keep his friendship in constant repair."— Samuel Johnson. "Life is to be fortified by many friendships. To love and to be loved, is the greatest happiness of existence."—Sidney Smith. 'Communicating of a man's self to his friend works two contrary effects: for it redoubleth joys, and cutteth griefs in halves."—Francis Bacon. "How many things are 'dias which a man cannot, with any face or comeliness say or do himself! A man can scarce allege his own merits with modesty, much less extol 538 them; a man cannot sometimes brook to supplicate or beg; and a number of the like. But all these things are graceful in a friend's mouth, which are blushing in a man's own.'—Francis Bacon. "True friendship is a plant of slow growth, and must undergo and withstand the shocks of adversity, before it is entitled to the appellation."—George Washington. "Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried, Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel.'"' —-Shakespeare. History and sacred literature give us many examples of beautiful and enduring friendships. We are also acquainted with at least biographical accounts of certain contemporary characters who show conspicuous ability as friend makers. From these successful men and women we can learn a great deal about how we too can acquire more ability to make people count us as their friends. Various instances from their lives will illustrate this or that valuable device or principle, but they all reenforce the general statement from Emerson that "the only way to have a friend ts to be one." Perhaps you are - already acquainted with one of the stories of how Benjamin Franklin was able to quickly turn a troublesome enemy into a very good friend. While he was struggling to establish his small printing business he was fortunate enough to be re-elected clerk of the state Assembly. During the election a certain candidate had campaigned against him and now as a member of the House was showing his further contempt and ill regard. What would Franklin do to secure his favor without as he says, "paying any servile respect to him?" In brief this is what he did. RELIEF SOGHETY MAGAZINE Franklin had heard that the new member owned a certain very rare and curious book. He wrote to him telling of his desire to peruse the volume and requesting the favor of a brief loan of the same. The book was sent at once and in about a week it was returned together with a note expressing his great appreciation of the favor. Next time they met in the House he spoke very civilly (before this he did not speak) to young Franklin and furthermore he manifested a willingness to extend other favors. They continued as lifelong friends. Many successful men and women make use of this same kind of friendly strategy. It consisted of gaining attention in a pleasant way by asking a favor. In discussing this way of winning new friends Webb and Morgan add this remark: "Tf used coldly, this plan of asking a favor is a mere bit of trickery. But when we wish the other man well and really want his friendship, it becomes 'a way to make this feeling known to him. * * * Charm, poise, 'personality' —all am from this feeling of genuine interest in people. It is this alone which can give power to our strategy." The results secured by Franklin in the instance just related show the working of what might be called a law of human nature. It is based upon one of the many powerful and dependable human wants that we all have more or less in common. Nearly everyone wants to be made to feel important and superior. What a satisfaction it is to have our ego raised—even a little bit! How quickly Franklin was able to kindle a "glow of friendliness" in the other fellow by himself taking on a minor role while the other man is allowed to assume the star position in the cast! Franklin was seeking help LESSON DEPARTMENT a better opinion of himself, we earn his good will because we satisfy one of his basic needs." It is important that we learn more about the nature of a want in the sense that we are here using the term and also about some of the various fundamental human wants. By a want we mean an active desire tending to replace present dissatisfaction with a condition we call satisfaction. A child uses the word with this meaning when he says, "I want to" or "I don't want to.' It implies an active striving, impulse or appetite impelling us to more or less appropriate activity. The strength of a want may vary from a condition near the zero point to one where we are keenly aware of an intense craving for something. Contrast, for example, your want for a fourth piece of pie with your want for air after you have been holding your breath for a minute. The books contain various lists of human wants. Sometimes they are classified as native and acquired wants, or labeled as instincts, urges, drives or what not. Such classifications and mere efforts to attach labels to various kinds of behavior are, however, of very little practical value. Too often instead of even singling out the behavior in question for further study it tends to make us satisfied with our mere ability to parrot off certain names that sound wise and scientific. We may not at this time pursue our effort to get a practical understanding of the basic human wants much beyond the material presented for us in our text, but we can at least achieve a point of view with which to approach our future further studies of this phase of our problem. Since it is our desire to use existing wants and take them into account much as an experienced 539 sailor might a favorable or unfavorable wind or ocean current, it ls important for us to know of their existence, dependability and relative strength. We may later wish to undertake the actual modification of existing wants or other traits and then a somewhat detailed account of the many factors which influenced their development will be necessary. In the meantime let us do as much actual "psychologizing" as we may —watching carefully the bearings of our acts as they affect other people. Instead of wasting time trying to decide which are inherited and which are acquired tendencies or merely prating as much as some do about instincts or about, what some prefer to call "urges" let us learn to recognize and deal somewhat directly with different kinds of behavior situations. No one will deny but that a young bride will do well not to follow even a very good cook book too slavishly if she wishes to have her husband like 'the meals she prepares. It would be better to begin cooking as best she can, then studying his reactions at mealtime and modifying her cooking accordingly. Modern advertisers, writers, and public speakers try to base their appeals upon the wants that most people have in common with each other. How much of commerce and social life, for example, is centered in the widespread existence and impelling nature of such organic needs as those of hunger, thirst, sex, the avoidance of pain or extremes of temperature, etc. Then too we practically all desire social approval, to be efficient, to be in style, to have a thrill or a new experience, etc. What a change would come into the lives of all of us if we were suddenly freed from the necessity of 540 satisfying such wants as the ones we have just mentioned! The modern salesperson not only makes use of his knowledge of these wants that he can depend upon nearly all people having, but he som times goes to considerable trouble to get a "picture" of the individual wants of each prospective customer. A knowledge of the peculiar interests, hobbies, likes and dislikes of this and that prospect he finds are often exceedingly useful. He takes great care to get reliable information regarding them and makes careful note of the same on each prospect card. Now what application can we make of this in relation to winning new friends? We have already shown how in the asking-a-favor technique we can get the desired response, sometimes even from an enemy, by the skillful use of one of the wants which practically everyone has. We can learn much by consciously watching how these general appeals are employed by skillful people who attempt to serve or exploit the public. Incidentally, we may thereby acquire something of the much needed art of salesresistance. What we desire to stress at this time, however, is the fact that appeals that are very individual and personal in character are often more effective than those which are general. It is this fact which has been generalized so often in the statement that '"'people are all different and must be treated differently." Theodore Roosevelt's popularity was due in part to the care he took to be informed about personal and seemingly trivial things about people. For example, his ability to fascinate men at political banquets whom he had never seen before was based upon the care he took to get RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a good characterization of the people about him. He tried to learn what particular things each had accomplished, what things fhe was most proud of, what he liked and so on. He showed great facility in learning to call each person by name and his conversation was surprisingly well-fitted to interest everyone at his table. How could they help being both delighted and most favorably impressed! In conclusion may we again quote from the book by Webb and Morgan which we recommended in a previous lesson of this course. They say: "To win the other fellow's liking and cooperation, remember that his personal interests are different from your own. Keep in mind his habits and hobbies; the things he has done, the things he owns; his knowledge, his opinions, and his name; the people and the things he reveres; his wants and his needs. Take the trouble to exhibit your respect for these interests of his." Problems For Class Discussion 1. Comment on the following quotation from Emerson: "The highest compact we can make with our fellow is—Let there be truth between us two forevermore. * * * It is sublime to feel and say of another, I need never meet, or speak, or write to him; we need not re-enforce ourselves or send tokens of remembrance; I rely on him as on myself; if he did thus or thus, I know it was right." Find a few other good quotations on this subject and prepare to read them to the class. 2. Tell briefly of one or two of the notable friendships of history. 3. Relate as interestingly as you can two or three instances from the LESSON DEPARTMENT while his former opponent had the way opened to play the part of benefactor. "When we give a man lives of such great friend makers as Jane Addams, William Gladstone, King Edward VII, Andrew Carnegie, William Howard Taft and Lady Astor, to illustrate their knack for making and keeping friends. 4. Is it generally true that friendliness begets friendliness? TIllustrate. 5. Show as forcefully as you can that our efforts to develop our personalities and to win friends must not be mere sordid or selfish affairs. In this connection Fosdick's article in the Reader's Digest for August, 1931, will be found very helpful. 6. Read to the class the condensed article in the same issue of the Reader's Digest entitled, "To Win New Friends." 7. Salesmen and advertisers are known to sometimes make unscrupulous use of some of the same knowledge that has been brought to our attention in this lesson. This 541 Another writer with the same thing in mind offers a number of valuable "safeguards in buying" which we shall here attempt to summarize: (1) Learn to judge for yourself the quality of the articles you wish to buy. (2) Familiarize yourself just as the wide awake merchant does with various places and prices at which the articles may be purchased. (3) Know your own reactions in buying and don't get so enthusiastic as to "oversell" yourself. In this connection the following of a well prepared [budget is an important safeguard against foolish buying. Discuss each of these suggestions and try to add one or two others you have found to be especially helpful. 8. Find these phrases in the text (see pp. 43- 68) and comment briefly on each: "wants, of most of which he is not even conscious;" "perhaps it was we who were at fault;" "bigoted self congratulation;" "first arouse in the other person an eager fact led a recent writer to urge that want;",, poverty of picture-building we cultivate sales resistance or better words}? > and "inducing an imagined still what he calls 'buymanship." experience."
