Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon EPTEMBER—Expectant, happy, laughing! Beautiful is the purple haze on the Eastern hills, lonely the sunset glow on the Western sea. The fragrance of ripened peach and apple delight the laughing children on the way to school. Blue asters, clematis and goldenrod brighten the way where labor calls. Vacation days are gone. With hope and energy renewed youth and age alike may say: "Sacred is the toil, Dear are the hills of God." GRATIFYING element of the A Covered Wagon Celebration was' the beauty and loyalty of Utah's young men and _ young women. Go search the world for anything lovelier than Margaret Young as Miss Pioneer. Pa! Pioneer mother has now been idealized in stone. Oklahoma was the first state to erect a monument in her honor. X-CONGRESSWOMAN ALICE ROBERTSON, who died recently, was one of Oklahoma's most beloved characters. In Muskogee where funeral rites were held, flags were half masted and stores were closed during the services while hundreds came especially from the Indian lands as a tribute to her memory. N° longer need the professional woman dye her beautiful white hair or deny her years to succeed in public life. A leading "Daily" recently printed the pictures of six noted women all over 60 years still successful in their different lines of endeavor, and there are scores of others. Note the list, Jane Addams, 61; Evangeline Booth, 66; Madam Curie, 62; Marie Dressler, 62; Earnestine Schumann-Heink, 70; Minnie Maddern Fiske, 60. AN honored guest in Europe this summer was Mrs. Woodrow Wilson, who responded to Poland's invitation to attend the unveiling of the monument erected in honor of her distinguished husband at Warsaw. She was also present at the dedication of the site for the great Peace Memorial at Geneva, Switzerland. NOTHER honor for Helen Keller is the order of St. Sana conferred by King Alexander of Jugoslavia. While Lady Astor is hobnobbing in Russia with England's great humorist Bernard Shaw, the House of Commons seems to have found a new favorite. It was an attractive gesture when Megan, charming daughter of David Lloyd George, having made a mental calculation in the course of her speech remarked, "Tf my arithemtic is correct." "Right," responded her father. "I thank my right honorable friend for his support," she replied. ISS ANITA MUHL of California has been asked by Johns Hopkins University to demonstrate unique mind diagnosis by automatic writing which probes unconscious minds of patients. ENRIETTA ADDITON, head of the crime prevention bureau in New York City, has been appointed deputy commissioner of police—the first woman to hold so high an office in New York.
