[WomansExponent | Vol13 | 1884 | November | Issue: 12 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: Unknown]

NOTES AND NEWS.

    On his eighty-fourth birthday, Mr. Geo.
Bancroft received congratulations from all
parts of the world, cablegrams coming from
Germany, England, and France.

    Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending Oct. 14, as follows:
    Lelia C. Harrison, New Haven, Conn.,
Hitching Device.
    Margaret E. Knight, Ashland, Mass., Gar-
ment Clasp.

    The corporation of the New England Hos-
pital for Women and Children held its annual
meeting on Tuesday.  From the dispensary re-
port it appears that the number of patients
during the year was 10,493; new patients, 4,-
160; treated at home, 834.  Mrs. Ednah D.
Cheeny read the annual report.  Dr. Emma
Culbertson is added to the staff of dispensary
physicians.  There is only a small debt re
maining.

    The student whom the John Hopkins univer-
sity refused because she was a woman, Martha
Cary Thomas, of Baltimore, has just received
the degree of Ph. D. summa cum laude,the fourth
and highest degree which the University of Zu-
rich can bestow.  Think of America sending
her Republican daughters to the heart of Eu-
rope to receive their degrees of lofty scholar-
ship!  Think of Europe emerging from her
mediaevalism before America!  Think of the
universities of Switzerland, of Italy, of Austria,
of Sweden, of France, shaming Columbia and
Harvard!


﻿Aloft on the throne of God, and not below,
in the footprints of a trampling multitude, are
the sacred rules of right, which no majorities
can displace or overturn.—Charles Sumner.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS,   .   .   Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: ne copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each s nare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, in  brick building north or Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
					Salt Lake City Utah.
