[Vol33 | February 1946 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Bennion]

Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 8?Charity Never Faileth Dr. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, May 7, 1946
Objective: To encourage people to put their trust in charity as the unfailing means of improving themselves and of influencing others for good. Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. For we know in part, and we prophecy in part. But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away.... For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known. And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity (I Cor. 13:8 ff). Paul wrote these words to the Corinthian saints because they were disputing among themselves about the relative importance of certain spiritual gifts. Some saints were making a show of the gift of tongues ?causing confusion, envy, and strife in their meetings. Paul did not intend to minimize the value of prophecy, the gift of tongues, and knowledge, but he knew that the things we know in part shall "be done away" with when a fulness of knowledge comes. He asked only that the Corinthian saints entertain a proper sense of values and cease having disputations concerning divine gifts. Love is at the heart of the gospel of Christ. The development of love and of the other great attributes of Deity in the lives of individuals and in society is the chief aim of the gospel. Prophecy, knowledge, and spiritual gifts inspired of Deity will always contribute towards this purpose. The passing of time has not changed the value of Paul's emphasis on charity or love. Love is still the first commandment and the end of our religious striving. Other things in life, not in harmony with love, shall pass away. Knowledge alone, for example, will not bring us peace; knowledge alone will not enable us to rear our children in paths of righteousness; prophecies, the gift of tongues, a theoretical knowledge of the gospel alone will not guarantee us a happy and successful life together in the Church or in the world. All of these things, to be of value, must be accompanied by the spirit of love. It is growth in love and good will based on gospel-living which will endure and never fail us. Paul's counsel to the Corinthians applies with equal force to us today. Let a husband and wife make decisions with charity as well as with knowledge, for their decisions will pass but their love will endure. Let a mother counsel her children with love as well as with knowledge, for a proud youth may not heed his mother's words but he will not forget her 
 ?FEBRUARY 1946 love. Let the worker in the Church Or a tinkling cymbal," Let us put labor with the love of Christ lest his our faith in love and never neglect Words "become as Sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal.? Let us put our faith in love and never neglect it.