[Vol33 | February 1946 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Pickering]

Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS (Continued ) Danish Mission Ev=VA M. GREGERSEN, President of the Danish Mission Board, reports on the extensive activities of the Relief Societies in her country. "The Mission Board today is the same as the one President Garff set apart before he left Denmark almost six years ago. In spite of many difficulties we have been happy that we have succeeded in keeping together all these years and in doing what little we could to keep the Relief Society work up in the Danish Mission. We hope that the time is not so far away when we again can receive help and instructions from Zion. We need them badly. "However, we are happy to say that the Lord has blessed us wonderfully in our work in spite of everything. We have had board meetings in my home every month and, if necessary, oftener.
Besides the more ordinary things, such as visiting the sick and needy, helping with funerals, giving financial aid when deemed necessary, and especially at Christmas time, when all our old members have received some little encouragement, giving at least one good yearly outing for our old members, etc., we have during the war taken up the work of helping our Page 118 starving brother-land, Norway.
Together with the mission office, we have been giving money to this purpose and every month many nice packages with food have been sent to our brothers and sisters in Norway, who have been thankful beyond words. "Even if the food situation in Denmark has been better than in other European countries, we have also had our difficulties to fight, and the Mission Board has felt the necessity of sending instructions to all our Relief Societies about gathering extra food supplies for an emergency. And the different Relief Societies have responded wonderfully and have had in store many valuable things which ordinarily were very hard to get. We are very, very thankful to the Lord that peace came instead of invasion at the time when we dreaded it most, so our food supply was not needed as badly as it might have been, but the Relief Society was prepared to help in every way possible. Now, the things have either been sent to Norway or given to the saints, and some of them were sold to get money for other purposes. "On March 17, 1942, we had a great celebration all over the mission
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 119 DANISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: counselor; Valborg Johansen, First Counselor; Eva M. Gregersen, President. Fanny Jacobsen, Secretary-Treasurer; Johanne Ostrup, Second Coun- (Photograph submitted by Eva M. Gregersen) and the Mission Board was busy a long time ahead. I wish you could have seen our celebration here in Copenhagen. For once we got permission to have a banquet in the big hall, and a wonderful banquet it was. The program was excellent and the Mission Board was represented, too, of course. Sister Ostrup had written a lovely poem for the occasion, and I wrote a prologue with the title "You Are Needed, O Woman, on Earth.? I had likewise translated a suitable play for the occasion. All these things, of course, were sent out to the mission branches. We had reports from all branches of good socials and meetings. The Sunday night program had been sent out by the Mission Board and had been a great success. "Another occasion we remember with joy was the Centennial Memorial of the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith. On this occasion we had saints from all of Denmark gathered here in Copenhagen and President West gave us permission to have one day "for Relief Society work. We had a wonderful meeting in the big hall, where all the branches were represented. All the members of the Board talked to the sisters. Sister Valborg Johansen, my first counselor, talked on the subject 'Recreation in the Relief Society.' My second counselor, Sister Johanne Ostrup, talked on "What Can We Learn From Our Sisters in Relief Society in the U. S. A., Especially Concerning Ward Teacher Work? Sister Fanny Jacobsen, Secretary-treasurer, talked on "The Financial Side of Relief Society Work,' and I talked on the lesson work, and, besides, tried to answer all the questions the sisters asked, and they were many. We wish we could have many meetings of that kind. "At this meeting our new choir, the Singing Mothers, sang for us under the direction of Sister Valborg Johansen. The Board has taken a great interest in this work. Sister Ostrup has written about it in the Star and has done what she could to encourage it. "Of course, the lesson work has been a great problem, but we have tried to keep it going with old lessons.
Sometimes we have borrowed material from other organizations, and for a long period I wrote some lessons in letter form, 'from heart to heart,' presenting practical and religious problems in question form, and sent them out once a month. The saints wrote and asked for more of the same kind. We always have the three kinds of lessons in the month: theology, literature, and social science. 'The fourth meeting is free to be spent as the sisters see fit, either work-meeting, testimony, or special programs. "In the whole of Denmark there are only 174 members on the books, but when one sees the yearly reports, I feel that we have reason to be thankful for the results.
Visits to the sick amounted last year to 1024 and 119 families were helped. "But we are longing for help. We long for the Magazine and for the lessons and instructions.
Please give our co-workers our love and greetings.
Tell them we pray for them and will be very happy to hear from them. And when the time comes that we again can receive visits from the US. A., words cannot express how great our joy will be." British Mission EXCERPTS from a letter, dated July 31, 1945, from Sister Eda V. Longbone, secretary in the British Mission office, to Sister Maude F. Hanks, president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society: "It has been raining, now don't you go and say that it is always raining in England, most Americans do, you know. However, the sun does shine at times and today is one of those times. It really is lovely out.
Ravenslea stands on the corner and faces the park so we get plenty of open space and can view lots of green trees, grass and some flowers. As I say, it is fine today; yesterday it was raining. The thing that has come to me is that our trees, etc.
Look all the greener and fresher for the rain, wind and storm they have gone through.
Today they are able to look up at the sun, seemingly smile, and are able to stretch out long arms upwards, strong, green, lovely and sweet scented. Why?
Because yesterday in the storm they took it properly.
They just dug their roots in farther, took in all the nourishment they could from the rain and just held on until all was over. We humans are not much like that, for when the storm comes, often we wilt down under it, we forget that it is for our good and advancement. Then, when the sun does shine again, we are not able to take full benefit from it, because we are not any stronger, nor sweeter nor fresher for the storms of yesterday. 
 ?FEBRUARY 1946 "This past week-end has been a busy one for us at the mission home. We always take in what service boys we can, and this time we had four staying for the two days. The other day one of our boys (our boys are the finest the world over, you know) did one of the sweetest, and finest he did not do it with that object in mind. He did it because his heart is in the right place. His name is Millard Earl Gooch, a lieutenant in the Air Force. His job at the moment is, as I understand it, to take U. S. troops from various parts of Europe to England, on leave and on duty, so he gets here at times for a night.
"This lad is one of my lambs. Each of us missionaries has special boys that we sort of like and mother or sister particularly, and we call them our lambs. Earl Gooch is one of mine. He comes from Salford, Avizona.
"Apparently at times he is some where in Poland, and there has become acquainted with some of the Poles. When he came to us at first he told us something of these people, how nice they were, also how ragged up they were for clothes, even to needles and cotton for sewing. They were not members of the Church, he said, but that did not make any difference. He would get anything for them in the way of knitting yarn on ships. As you know, he could not, but we did get some colored silks for stitching, and one or two little knick-knacks like that. Then two of us gave him five coupons, I gave two, another gave two. We fixed him for bed clothing or two things, two pairs of stockings, the not fully fashioned are only one and one-half coupons each, and two colored head scarfs, one coupon each.
"When he returned to the office you would have thought he had been able to buy the wealth of the Indies he was so pleased. Then mission mother, Sister Florence Dunn, got to know of this little project of his and made him up a parcel of used clothing. She felt that the need was indeed justified.
"He is a very young, smart lieutenant, but he did not mind hugging his cumbersome parcel off with him when he went back to Poland. Now we have had two letters from two of the little girls he helped in Poland. I enclose one of them for you to see. I dare say, like me, you will not be able to read it. According to his letter ' (very beautiful clothing) girls are so happy, and were eager that he should send their letters right away, in case we thought they were ungrateful. Several have benefited by his sweet act of kind thoughtfulness, for he goes on to say 'You should see them. Polish, Russian, Dutch, and French all promenading with their felt slipshoes on their (very beautiful clothing).'
"President Brown has gone on the Continent to hold services with the boys, and according to reports, the one he held in Paris was a great success. He was before a thousand present for the three meetings of the trip, and their spirituality was enjoyed by all who were privileged to be present."
On the passing of Britain's oldest Church member, Sister Fola Longbone writes:
"Sister Johanna Porter, affectionately known as 'Granny Jo,' was at the home of her daughter, Ruth Amy Tomes, in Waterlooville, near Portsmouth, Hampshire, England, 17th July 1945, in her 101st year. She is survived by three children, twenty grandchildren, seventeen greatgrandchildren and two great-greatgrandchildren. "She was born at Cowes, Isle of Wight, England, 5th October 1844, and was baptized first into the Church at the age of fifteen years.
Later she received baptism again, as many of her day did. "Granny Porter was an old Relief Society sister. In her early days she acted as a midwife, and as the scenes of her activities were situated far from any existent branch, she made it a practice to carry with her a bottle of consecrated oil, which, on rare but urgent occasions, she used with humble prayer on newly born infants. In each case, the use of it was efficacious. "Of later years, when her activities were curtailed by age, she would read from cover to cover The Relief Society Magazine, and give many of its wise teachings to the younger ones who liked to gather round her.
Another book she loved was the Doctrine and Covenants. She would pour over it for hours, often with difficulty, for her sight grew weaker with her passing years. She used a magnifying glass and would pick out the words slowly and painstakingly with the aid of that. "Another thing Granny Porter used to recall with great satisfaction was that her mother, Mary Ann Tippett, one of the very early converts to the Church, used to spend hours tracting and preaching the newly restored gospel in her district, and at times her daughter accompanied her. "The funeral ceremony took place at her home.
Duning it, her body lay peacefully among a host of floral tributes, sweet scented and colorful, from many relatives and friends who loved her for her gentle ways and kindly words. London's District President, George F. Poole, conducted the ceremony and later dedicated the grave. 'The speakers were Sister Eda V. Longbone, representing the mission office, and Elder Darwin Gubler of the American Army. "The last earthly resting place of this aged sister is in a little cemetery situated among the green fields near her home.
From this place many miles of English countryside can be seen, cultivated fields, and away in the distance lies the blue strip of sea, known as the English Channel. "The day she was carried there was, though windy, sweet and fresh. It seemed just the setting and right send-off for this small-built woman who had spent the greater part of her 100 34 years in active service to others. To the very last she was a faithful Latter-day Saint." Stuttgart Dist. (German Mission) MARIA R. SPEIDEL, President Stuttgart District Relief Society, German Mission, reports on the activities of the branches in her district, the first report to come from Germany since the beginning of the Wal: "May we, your sisters in the gospel from across the waters and from a war-torn world, greet you and wish 

 ?FEBRUARY 1946 NOTES FROM THE FIELD upon you our Heavenly Father's choicest blessings. "The past five years have been difficult ones and we have become very humble. Our trust in the Lord and our testimony of his Church have been our pillar of strength. He has kept us mercifully, and although there was much to suffer, he has given to us a measure of his strength.
Some of us have lost all our earthly Possessions, every tangible thing ever dear to us, and when we sav It is better to walk with God in the darkness than without him in the light, we know whereof we speak. "Since July 14, 1933, it has been my pleasure and responsibility to Preside over the Relief Societies in the Stuttgart District. We number five districts: Esslingen, Feuerbach, Goeppingen, Heilbronn, and Stuttgart. "I am thrilled to inform you that all during the war we were able to hold our meetings regularly every week. The sisters are working together in love and harmony.
Hardships have brought about 'a closer understanding. "On September 30, 1945, we held our belated spring conference. The Relief Society had charge of the Saturday night meeting. We chose 'Women of the Bible' for the topic. "We are looking forward to the time when we shall be privileged once more with a representative from headquarters. We remember with fond emotions Sister Laura Salzner, Susan Kelly, and Evelyn Wood. "The coming winter will be a most difficult one. We are short of everything, but we want to feel that the trials of today are Preparing us for the blessings of tomorrow1.
23 MARIA R. SPEIDEL President, Stuttgart District Relief Society, German Mission..
With  joy we sing the songs of Zion and put our trust in the Lord. He maketh all things well." Southern States Mission From the Southern States Mission Relief Society comes the following report: "As a part of the cultural program of the Relief Society in the Southern States Mission, Sister Effie Meeks, Relief Society President, has been stressing the art of homemaking.
Believing that the visual method is the most effective way to teach, Sister Meeks has been conducting demonstrations of different home arts at the district quarterly conferences. "These demonstrations have been carried out most successfully in most of the districts and have been found very satisfactory to the Relief Society members in developing within them a greater appreciation of culture and refinement in the home. "Sister Meeks has also suggested to the members that they acquire a hobby, a hobby that has a purpose other than the utilization of their leisure time. It is suggested that hobbies be selected which are related to the art of home building. "The following is a list of hobbies which have been suggested and are being used by members throughout the Mission: Shell Craft: We are not only making shell jewelry, but decorating perfume bottles, rosebud vases, tea bells, and many dishes with shell designs. In the South Carolina District artistic vases were made of olive bottles covered with the long pine needles, varnished and trimmed with the pine cones.
They are very attractive and unique.
Inexpensive glassware with an edge of pretty colored nail polish was also demonstrated. The products of home gardens, flowers and vegetables were displayed in the Mississippi District.
Inspirational talks were given along with the demonstration as to how the children were taught to love the life of the seed, and to watch the development of the plant as it grows so that the children will learn to love gardening.
Garden clubs are being organized out in some of the districts. The making of negro dolls was demonstrated in the Georgia District. Our sisters have been thrifty in buying mill-end materials from the cotton mills to make sheets, pillowcases, and quilts when they could not go to the stores and find these utilities. JACKSONVILLE BRANCH, SOUTHERN STATES MISSION Sister Clarice Skinner displaying her hobby.
These attractive bedspreads and curtains were made from feed sacks which a less artistic and frugal woman might have used as dish towels.
Through her hobby Sister Skinner has added much beauty to her home. 

 ?FEBRUARY 1946 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 125 JACKSONVILLE BRANCH, SOUTHERN STATES MISSION Miss Clare DeLoach demonstrating the table appointments and correct arrangement of the silver for a formal dinner. She states: "Few opportunities to display one's tast that which is offered in arranging the table. E and individuality can be compared with Candlelight and flowers, the sparkling luster of glass, are attributes that assure the success of a dinner, be it formal or informal, for as the guests sit down to a charming table they readily respond in a festive mood to such a setting." "Sister Lena Johnson of Cowley, Wyoming, while here on her mission, traveled in several of the districts and taught in the Relief Society meetings the different arts that could be developed by using up scrap materials. She did a beautiful work. "Not only do our sisters learn the necessity of the different art crafts to beautify their homes, but they learn to love this part of the country in which they live by converting materials into articles which are characteristic of the Southland.
They build up this part of God's vineyard, which is so attractive, and acquaint the rest of the world with it. "Through the development of these arts the most humble home may be a place of culture, refinement and beauty.
Such a home will always be more attractive to the family, and the spirit of our Heavenly Father will abide in all good Latter-day Saint homes." Music Notes Dr. Florence J. Madsen Member Relief Society General Board "We can impart to others only that which we know." THE truthfulness of this statement comes  sooner or later to all of us who try to serve in the organizations of our Church.
Just as soon as we are required to give from our meager store of knowledge, we realize that if the giving is to continue for long, we must find ways and means to replenish the storehouse. Fortunately, through the printed page, there have been preserved for us the finest thoughts and ideas of the greatest men and women throughout the ages.
Whatever the chosen subject, there is printed material in abundance to cover any phase of that subject.
Those who are called to take over the music of any of the auxiliaries of the Church should have access to some standard music textbooks. The Relief Society library of each ward should have in it three books on music which are at all times available to the chorister and to the accompanist.
These books are: a music dictionary, a book on the fundamentals of music, and a book on conducting. The conductor and the accompanist should always work together in perfect harmony.
Each should give and take to better the cause. All problems should be solved before new music is presented to the singers.
Rhythm patterns should be rehearsed sufficiently so that they are not merely attached but are a very part of oneself.
Foreign words indicating tempo or speed of the rhythm should be pronounced correctly and defined accurately. All expression marks or signs should be understood and adhered to. The aim should always be to understand all things that appear on the printed page of music and to impart this knowledge to the singing group.
Those who are learning to conduct will find it most helpful to practice before a large mirror where they can see their motions and bodily posture. All conductors should use a baton as it is much easier to follow and understand than the varying gestures of the hand. The accompanists should be thoroughly familiar with all the.
Accompaniments of songs to be rehearsed or sung.
They should be able, at any time, to leave the accompaniment and give help to any part or parts that need help.
This often requires that the accompanist read from three different staves simultaneously.
This is rather a difficult thing to do and requires considerable practice. A great musician said: The conductor of a singing group may be quite ordinary, but with the help of a fine accompanist, can do extraordinary work, while, on the contrary, the fine conductor et a poor accompanist can accomplish little. MUSIC NOTES The singing group can progress to no greater heights than the leadership can take it. We never reach perfection, but we are ever on its trail. Joy comes with every new thing learned and shared with others, so we should avail ourselves of any opportunity to improve our talents. Note: The General Board recommends that each ward Relief Society purchase three of the five books listed below and keep them available for reference. It is suggested that these books be carefully preserved in order that they may be used from year to year, and that someone be held responsible for them. 127
Suggested References: CORNWALL, SPENCER, Fundamentals of Conducting....................$.50
Etson, Louis Charles, Pocket Music Dictionary Paper COVER..........$..50
Cloth cover .........-$1.75 GEHRKENS, Kart Witson, Essentials in Conducting................----$1.75 GEHRKENS, Kari Wison, The Fundamentals of Music............$1.50 SMITH, Leo, Musical Rudiments $1.00
These books are available at the Deseret Book Company, 44
East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. A PRAYER Celia Van Cott Lord, we give thanks? The sword is sheathed; the bullets cease, Across the earth we hope for peace; White doves are loosed to fly Unmolested through the sky. Bring comfort, Lord, to those who yearn For loved ones who will not return, To crippled lads and those in pain? Teach them to live and laugh again. Cleanse hearts of hate, O Lord, with your giving, Touch eyes gone blind; teach us Christ's way of living.