[Vol33 | February 1946 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Congratulations to Birthday]
(congratulations  to  Sister  JLy^man  on  uier 
Qjirthaaii — Sfeoruary  jth 
npHE  General  Board,  on  behalf  of  Relief  Society  members  throughout  the 
world,  extends  birthday  greetings  to  Sister  Amy  Brown  Lyman.  Her 
years  of  service  to  the  Church  and  her  devoted  efforts  for  the  advancement 
and  welfare  of  women  everywhere  are  recalled  with  appreciation  and  pleas- 
ure. We  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  gratitude  for  Sister  Lyman's 
years  of  service  to  the  Relief  Society,  an  organization  which  she  under- 
stands thoroughly  and  loves  greatly.  We  wish  Sister  Lyman  many  pleasant 
returns  of  the  day  and  may  she  be  blessed  with  health  and  happiness  in  the 
coming  years. 
Sister  Lyman's  kindness,  sympathy,  and  encouragement  are  especially 
remembered  at  this  time.  She  has  helped  many  women  to  realize  that  the 
teachings  of  the  Church,  if  followed,  will  be  a  source  of  help  and  direction 
in  solving  the  complex  problems  of  a  world  facing  the  challenge  of  organizing 
for  brotherhood  and  peace. 
Best  washes  to  you.  Sister  Lyman,  and  may  our  love  and  appreciation 
be  a  source  of  happiness  to  you.

Fifty  and  One  Ideas  for  You  and 
for  Your  Home 
Blanche  M.  Condie 
IT  
is  true  that  the  people  in  a 
home  make  the  home,  but  there 
are  other  things  needed,  too.  We 
must  work  to  make  and  keep  our 
homes  more  attractive,  gayer,  and 
happier.  How  can  this  be  accom- 
phshed?  By  keeping  them  simple. 
Simplicity  is  beauty,  simplicity  is 
charm.  If  your  home  looks  clut- 
tered up,  do  you  know  why?  It  may 
be  that  there  are  too  many  things  in 
it  for  which  there  is  no  need. 
New  furniture,  new  materials,  and 
many  other  things  people  have  been 
waiting  for  will  soon  be  in  the  stores. 
But  before  one  starts  to  buy,  one 
should  take  an  inventory  of  what  one 
has  and  then  plan  what  is  needed. 
In  buying  furniture,  it  is  better  to 
look  for  quality;  a  little  good  furni- 
ture is  far  better  than  much  that  is 
indifferent.  A  living  room  should 
be  arranged  so  that  the  family  and 
friends    can    talk    easily    together. 
-Salt  Lake  Tribune  Photograph 
CORNER  ARRANGEMENT  SHOWING  THE  USE  OF  A  TIERED  TABLE 
Page  101

102 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1946 
— Salt  Lake  Tribune  Photograph 
A  WINDOW  WITH  GLASS  SHELVES  FOR  FIGURINES,  PLANTS 
AND  VASES. 
Choose  the  most  important  piece  of 
furniture  in  the  room  and  then  ar- 
range the  other  pieces  to  be  a  part 
of  this  group.  If  the  central  piece  is 
a  couch  with  a  table  at  each  end, 
then  place  two  chairs  facing  each 
other  to  form  a  group  arrangement. 
If  all  the  larger  pieces  of  furniture 
seem  to  be  too  near  the  wall,  try 
taking  a  long  table  or  a  desk  and 
placing  one  end  to  the  wall.  Set  a 
bench  or  a  chair  at  the  other  end  of 
the  table  or  desk  and  a  chair  on  each 
side.  This  makes  a  good  conversa- 
tion group. 
If  possible,  it  is  a  very  good  idea 
to  have  the  center  of  interest  in  front 
of  a  window  or  between  two  win- 
dows.   Tlic  daylight  brings  out  the 
beauty  of  the  grouping,  and  at  night 
the  lamps  make  an  inviting  picture 
from  the  outside. 
A  room  will  have  better  balance  if 
everything  in  it  is  not  the  same 
height.  This  can  be  accomplished 
by  using  lamps,  pictures  or  mirrors, 
anything  that  attracts  the  eye  in  an 
upward  direction.  Another  decora- 
tive touch  is  the  use  of  bell  cords, 
or  imitation  ones,  which  may  be 
hung  from  the  ceiling  on  each  side 
of  an  upright  piano  or  any  other  wide 
piece  of  furniture.  These  may  be 
made  of  needle-point  or  crewelwork. 
If  there  is  a  window  in  a  room  that 
is  difficult  to  handle,  put  glass 
shelves  across  it,  or  make  a  scalloped 
wooden  frame  around  it  to  give  the