[Vol33 | February 1946 | Sequence: 36 | Category: Article | Title: Mormonism in the Eyes of the Press: The World Receives the News of Joseph Smith's Death Elder James R. Clark]
receives commendation. If not, kindly and constructive criticism and suggestions are made, and the family may even be fined a few shillings, which goes into the Relief Society fund. "A house of a certain size requires a certain number of coarse floor mats, with better ones covering them, as the pebble floor would soon ruin the finer top ones. The same applies to fine beautiful bed mats. The woven shutters, which are always raised high unless it is raining hard, are part of the requirements.
Pillows are filled with the native 'tree' cotton.
Many families have mattresses made of this cotton and it serves well. The sisters also work beautiful designs on pillowcases in colored thread, also, on bedspreads, doilies, etc.
There must be enough of everything to make the home comfortable for all its occupants?enough mosquito nets, for instance. If the house leaks, renovation is pointed out as a pressing need. If the ground about the house is littered or weedy (and it seldom is in Samoa), pressure is brought to bear to have it cleaned. If cooking utensils and dishes are insufficient, getting some cheap ones is recommended. In no case are hardships imposed upon anyone, for almost any native can cut, dry, and sell enough coconuts to buy these necessities and comforts. "So these middle-aged and older Relief Society sisters of Samoa, with their unique, consistent and_ thorough system of encouraging their members to maintain model homes and surroundings, are pioneers in
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 283 what might wel] be followed elseby bit, so 4s to make Cakes, Cookies where, Many a home in the U. S. A. And candies.
Some of the members would not Pass inspection in Sa. Donated Sugar and others took the moa!" time to Prepare cakes, etc. Ma. North Western States Mission 00s Bay ( Oregon) Branch tuffs < forth' wh MARTHA HUNT, Preident of time rollale ??? 208
Bay Branch (Oregon ?
Teceipts this year were work to make it 4 success and saved is no task too big for the Coos Bay their Sugar throughout the year, bit Relief Society.' " ESTERN STATES MISSION GON) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Standing, left to right: Wilma Smith; Lucille Guinan, Literature Leader; Hannah in Northwestern States Mission Juneau (Alaska) Branch RYELYN P. TANNER, President of the Juneau (Alaska) Branch Relief Society, describes a sacrament meeting program and other interesting activities: "March 4th (1945) the branch presidency gave the time in sacrament meeting allotted to speakers to the Relief Society. We carried out the program suggested in the Bulletin as closely as possible for our small group. The dialogue, all the talks, and: most of the musical selections were given. We enjoyed preparing and carrying out this program which was acclaimed as very interesting by the audience. "For further commemoration, on March 8th, our business and social evening, we prepared a special lunch  eon for our group and spent the evening sewing and relating reasons for our interest in Relief Society and the great need we have for the association and the uplift and knowledge we receive from the activities." Northwestern States Mission Buckley (Washington) Branch NORA SMITH, President of Buckley Branch Relief Society, reports on a very successful bazaar: "The Relief Society bazaar and bake sale of the Buckley Branch of the Northwestern States mission was held December 5, 1945, in the Relief Society rooms of our church and was very successful. The members began preparing for the bazaar immediately following the New Year and worked willingly and diligently all through the regular year, as well NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION JUNEAU (ALASKA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Back row, standing, left to right: Margaret Skinner, Trudy Nielsen, Ruth Bost, Doris Clift, Doris McClellan, Ethel Westfall, Norrine Kunz. Seated, left to right: Vesta Lorz, Secretary-Treasurer,; Maude Kunz, First Counselor;