[Vol33 | February 1946 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Bible Driggs]

Literature The Bible in Our Literature Lesson 8-Bible Influence as Revealed in Children?s Literature D. Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, May 21, 1946 LITERATURE for children had its beginning in folk lore. Out of the wealth of stories created in the long-ago for fireside entertainment and to impress life lessons have come many stories of appeal for both young and old. Youth enjoys the story; age gets more of the inner meaning from it. In this time tested literature is a rich heritage for all.
Among these treasures are Aesop's fables?a collection of little tales, mainly of Greek origin, each carrying its moral. Legend has woven some interesting stories about Aesop. He is said to have been a pedagogue or teacher, full of quaint wit and wisdom. Certain it is that the tales credited to him preserve in living form some helpful maxims; for example:
THE BOY WHO CRIED WOLF
A young shepherd tending his flock on a hillside not far from a village, decided to have some sport; he suddenly cried, "Wolf, Wolf!"
Immediately there was a scurrying of the men from town up the hills to help tend his sheep. But when they came puffing up to where he was, they found him laughing at his trick.
Next day he tried the same foolish trick. Again the men came by his help, and again they were laughed at by the silly shepherd. On the third day, a wolf really did come. The boy shouted and shouted but no one walked up his help. Some of the flock were killed before the men, in the tow. A liar is not believed even when he does tell the truth.
Action centered in a simple but interesting plot, with appropriate conversation to add life, makes these fables of Aesop rare stories. Added to this they impress practical life lessons. Each class member will recall some of the good old fables that Aesop, or someone else, has bequeathed to us. These stories are not linked with the Bible, but they are in keeping with its helpful teachings.
Legends are another type of stories which not only charm but often teach. One the writer has carried in pleasant memory for years is that of Androcles and the Lion. It tells a tale of a Greek slave who was saved by a lion from whose wounded foot he had extracted a large, painful thorn.
 LESSON DEPARTMENT 133
Later, Androclus, captured by the Romans and trained as a gladiator, met the same lion in the arena. The beast bounded forward to attack, but stopped. It would not fight its friend. The Emperor, learning the reason, ordered both Androclus and the lion freed.
This is just a legend?blending some historical facts with fancy? but it impresses the value of kindness to animals. The story of Damon and Pythias is another legend portraying loyal friendship.
Many similar stories have been passed down to us. Like Aesop's fables, they were created before Christianity came to the Greeks, but many of them are in consonance with the Christian spirit.
Another type of story created and preserved by the common folk is the fairy tale. To the Grimm Brothers ?early day students of language and folklore?we are indebted for a wealth of these and other folk stories.
Created for fireside entertainment and told and retold down the years, many of these old stories have