[Vol33 | February 1946 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: My Old Green Candland]

The outline also suggests a thorough study of the community today, covering the following points: MY OLD GREEN CHEST Grace M. Candland Today I emptied out An old green chest of mine, And came across, to my surprise, A soiled and faded valentine. I read the loving words thereon With somewhat of a start, For there in his handwriting "T love you, dear, with all my heart." I wonder as I look at him If that was just a pretty caper, It seems his keenest interest Is in the evening paper.
WHAT THE CHILDREN CAN DO FOR 1947
Topography and natural resources Population Health and safety Home and family life Recreation B95) Government Organized group life Occupations Transportation and communication facilities. Page
96 GRANDMA Elsie C. Carroll "Grandma! I would not let him use that name, If I were you," she said. "It makes me think of wrinkled cheeks, Of nodding gray old head. "It makes me think of tottering feet And eyes that time has dimmed; Of wandering mind and quavering voice, And lips that pain has thinned. "It makes me think of gnarled brown hands, And shoulders bent by years;  It makes me think of winter, death; It chills me with vague fears." I smiled and answered her, "I see That life has not been fair. She took too early from you, dear, A gift I hold most rare. "Grandma!
That name to me brings memories Of joys beyond mere words. It's sweet like dawn, and spring, And flowers, and brooks, and birds. "Her feet came swiftly to my need. Her cheek was soft as down; Her eyes were pools of love for me; Her hair a silver crown. "Her hands held strength and gentleness; Her kiss could soothe all pain; The refuge of her arms and lap Gave peace I'd like again. "It makes you think of winter, death; And fills you with strange fears. To me, the name of Grandma makes A blessing of the years. "And when J hear him calling it, I'm thrilled with ecstasy. 'O make me, Father,' is my prayer, "The Grandma I should be.' " Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1886 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women OF ALL NATIONS"' MIDNIGHT MUSINGS The fire burns low upon the hearth, The household sleeps, no cares intrude; Without hath darkness wrap'd the earth, Within I sit in solitude. But not alone, dear voices come Breathing soft cadence in my ear, Which through the day, all wearisome, With rush of work, I could not hear. —Lula EXPERIENCES: To some the experiences they pass through are like beads upon a string, and when the thread of life is cut, they simply roll away out of sight and out of mind. A new business here, a new friendship there; here a lucky accident, there a disastrous failure; here a birth and a rejoicing, there a death and mourning; and, as the mind recalls them, it finds no special meaning attached to them and no connection between them, except that of time or place.
Another person comes out of each one fuller, stronger, wiser than before He is accumulating experience, not simply to count it over and recall its pleasure or its pain, but to develop out of it all power and wisdom by which his own life and the lives of all who approach him may be improved.—Editorial. DAVIS STAKE: The Relief Society quarterly conference of Davis Stake was held at Farmington, January 8, 1886, Sister Mary Clark presiding. Presidents William R.
Smith and Anson Call met with us for the purpose of re-organizing, or rather appointing a president, as our former president had been called to labor in another capacity. Sister Susan Grant was chosen****Sister President Kimball and Doctor Ellen B.
Ferguson were present.
They gave us some very good instructions, and urged the mothers to look well to their children; be careful to implant the principles of truth and virtue in their young minds. We had a splendid meeting, a good spirit prevailed, and all seemed to manifest a lively interest in the cause—Rhoda Hinman, Secretary.  A HAPPY HOME: "Six things," says Hamilton, 'are requisite to create a happy home.
Integrity must be the architect, and tenderness the upholsterer. It must be warmed by affection and lighted with cheerfulness, and industry must be the ventilator, renewing the atmosphere, and bringing in fresh salubrity day by day; while over all as a protecting glory and canopy, nothing will suffice except the blessing of God."—Selected. Page 97
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon WE wonder how Japanese women will react to suffrage, demanded for them by General MacArthur. It comes to them with stunning suddenness, whereas American women struggled for it seventy-two years, from 1848 to 1920. Since 1920 our country has sent only thirty-nine women to our national Congress, and the nine present incumbents are all in the Lower House. Yet what means of attaining a better world could be more sure than for determined women, the world over, to use their opportunities to mold public opinion, to vote, and to hold office? THE British Red Cross and other agencies packed 1,672,579 food packages per week for prisoners of war who were natives of India. Ig was largely through the efforts of the women of America that Mount Veron, home of George Washington, was purchased and preserved as a national shrine. LADY SIMON of England says Britain's government has only now accepted as its goal what has been part of the American way of life for neatly one hundred years, equal educational opportunities for all children irrespective of the financial status of their parents. THE international world of art has lost one of its great figures in Page 98 the death of La Argentinita, Spanish dancer born in the Argentine. Graciousness, a supreme dignity, and womanliness characterized her personality both off and on the stage. She was unselfish and often worked hard to help struggling fellow artists. MBS. MARIA KRISTINA PERSSON of Logan, Utah, has reached the age of ninety-nine years and may be the oldest Relief Society teacher in the Church, both in age and in length of service—more than sixty years. For fifty-three years she has been a worker in the Logan temple. FIFTY-SIX women doctors, graduated from Western Reserve medical school, have given their communities a total of six hundred and eleven years of medical service, besides engaging in many useful civic enterprises. Thirty-three of them have been homemakers, but unfortunately only twenty-nine children have been born to this group of such high intelligence. AMONG the 27,000,000 people of Indo-China, the women of the Annamese tribe are noted for their grace and beauty, and for their skill in the fine arts, music and poetry. The Mois are more savage. Some of their tribes are ruled by women. Women dispose of property, buy at markets, and make marriage proposals.
Editorial 
Vol 33
February 1946 


Vol 33
February 1946 NO 2
Study My Word Study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also study my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is now translating, yea, until you have obtained all which I shall grant unto the children of  men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto (Doc. and Gov. 11:22) . EVERY Latter-day Saint should study the word of the Lord and copies of the standard works of the Church should be in every home. As a child grows to maturity, he should be given, on appropriate occasions, copies of the standard works to form a nucleus for his own library. When the oldest child in a family reaches the age of understanding, simple stories from the scriptures may be told him, showing an appropriate picture to illustrate the story and help fix it in his mind. Then, as the oldest child grows in years, a convenient time each day may be chosen when the entire family can gather as a group and hear portions of the scriptures read. Different methods may be used in order to ground the children in the doctrine of the Church. One mother tried the plan of reading to her children in a chrono-logical order with the Bible as a basis. For instance, after reading the account of Adam, as given in Genesis, then the fuller account, as told in the Pearl of Great Price, was read and commented upon. Following this, any verses which referred to Ad-am in the Doctrine and Covenants were studied, and then remarks which the Prophet Joseph Smith had made concerning Adam, were add-ed. By following such a procedure, as the reading from the Bible progressed, not only were the truths contained in the scriptures studied, but also the inter-relationship of the standard works was made clear, and the necessity for searching out all the light possible on a given subject was emphasized. Reading the scriptures together as a family draws the members more closely together and opens up vistas of understanding and inspiration which will prove a source of strength to them throughout life. To read of the dealings of God with his children in any dispensation is to bring comfort and enlargement to the soul. When trials come, there enters a calmness in one's thoughts on reading the words of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith during his trials: My son, peace be unto thy soul, thine adversity and thine affliction shall be but a small moment; and then if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high, thou shalt triumph over all thy foes (Doc. and Gov.121:7).Page 99 
 ?
FEBRUARY 1946
What comfort came to those who lost a loved one during this last conflict to read: And it shall come to pass that those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them (Doc. and Cov. 42:46).
Whatever the occasion, whether it be one of rejoicing or one of sorrow, the student of the scriptures can find encouragement and solace from reading particular passages which relate experiences of others similar to his own, and the words of the Lord to them under such circumstances.
Mothers should realize that the responsibility of teaching their children the doctrines of the Church rests, not upon the Church auxiliaries, but upon the parents (see Doc. and Cov. 69).
Early training from hearing the scriptures read and taking part in the reading, will bear fruit throughout the life of the child, and, at the same time, add enrichment and joy to be gained in no other way.
Rays of living light will thus early enter the soul of the child and serve to guide his footsteps throughout mortality. M.C.S.
Congratulations to Sister Lyman on ter Birthday?February 7th THE General Board, on behalf of Relief Society members throughout the world, extends birthday greetings to Sister Amy Brown Lyman. Her years of service to the Church and her devoted efforts for the advancement and welfare of women everywhere are recalled with appreciation and pleasure. We take this opportunity to express our gratitude for Sister Lyman's years of service to the Relief Society, an organization which she understands thoroughly and loves greatly. We wish Sister Lyman many pleasant returns of the day and may she be blessed with health and happiness in the Sister Lyman's kindness, sympathy, and encouragement are especially remembered at this time. She has helped many women to realize that the teachings of the Church, if followed, will be a source of help and direction in solving the complex problems of a world facing the challenge of organizing for brotherhood and peace.