[Vol33 | February 1946 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: The Frontispiece]
130 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1946 
on  the  rich  soil  of  Ohio  the  first 
house  of  the  Lord  in  this  dispensa- 
tion erected  by  the  saints  at  a  cost  of 
inestimable  sacrifice.  This  simple 
but  solid  and  stately  temple  was  set 
upon  a  hill  and  lifted  its  spire  above 
the  majestic  trees  of  Kirtland. 
Writes  Edward  W.  Tullidge: 
...  It  was  commenced  in  June,  1833, 
under  immediate  direction  of  the 
Almighty,  through  his  servant,  Joseph 
Smith,  whom  he  called  in  his  boyhood, 
like  Samuel  of  old,  to  introduce  the  ful- 
ness of  the  everlasting  gospel. 
At  that  time  the  saints  were  few  in  num- 
ber, and  most  of  them  very  poor;  and  had 
it  not  been  for  the  assurance  that  God  had 
spoken,  and  had  commanded  that  a  house 
should  be  built  to  his  name,  of  which  he 
not  only  revealed  the  form  but  also  desig- 
nated the  dimensions,  an  attempt  towards 
building  that  Temple,  under  the  then  ex- 
isting circumstances,  would  have  been,  by 
all  concerned,  pronounced  preposterous.  .  . 
Its  dimensions  are  eighty  by  fifty-nine 
feet;  the  walls  fifty  feet  high,  and  the  tow- 
er one  hundred  and  ten  feet.  The  two 
main  halls  are  fifty-five  by  sixty-five  feet 
in  the  inner  court.  The  building  has  four 
vestries  in  front  and  five  rooms  in  the  at- 
tic, which  were  devoted  to  literature  and 
for  meetings  of  the  various  quorums  of 
the  priesthood. 
There  was  a  pecuHarity  in  the  arrange- 
ment of  the  inner  court  which  made  it 
more  than  ordinarily  impressive — so  much 
so  that  a  sense  of  sacred  awe  seemed  to 
rest  upon  all  who  entered.  Not  only  the 
Saints,  but  strangers  also,  manifested  a 
high  degree  of  reverential  feeling.  Four 
pulpits  stood,  one  above  another,  in  the 
center  of  the  building,  from  north  to  south, 
both  on  the  east  and  west  ends.  ...  In 
front  of  each  of  these  two  rows  of  pulpits 
was  a  sacrament  table,  for  the  administra- 
tion of  that  sacred  ordinance.  In  each 
corner  of  the  court  was  an  elevated  pew 
for  the  singers — the  choir  being  distributed 
into  four  compartments.  In  addition  to 
the  pulpit-curtains  were  others,  intersect- 
ing at  right  angles,  which  divided  the 
main  ground-floor  hall  into  four  equal  sec- 
tions, giving  to  each  one-half  of  one  set  of 
pulpits. 
From  the  day  the  ground  was  broken  for 
laying  the  foundation  of  the  Temple,  un- 
til its  dedication  on  the  27th  of  March, 
1836,  the  work  was  vigorously  prosecuted. 
With  very  little  capital  except  brain, 
bone,  and  sinew,  combined  with  unwaver- 
ing trust  in  God,  men,  women,  and  even 
children,  worked  with  their  might.  While 
the  brethren  labored  in  their  departments, 
the  sisters  were  actively  engaged  in  board- 
ing and  clothing  workmen  not  otherwise 
provided  for — all  living  as  abstemiously  as 
possible  so  that  every  cent  might  be  ap- 
propriated to  the  grand  object,  while  their 
energies  were  stimulated  by  the  prospect 
of  participating  in  the  blessing  of  the  house 
built  by  the  direction  of  the  Most  High, 
and  accepted  by  him. 
— Tullidge,  E.  W.,  Life  of  Joseph,  the 
Prophet,  pp.  187-189;  See  Lundwall,  N. 
B.,  Temples  of  the  Most  High,  pp.  7-11. 
One  week  following  the  dedica- 
tion of  the  Kirtland  Temple,  it  be- 
ing the  Sabbath,  April  3,  1836,  Jo- 
seph Smith  the  Prophet  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  had  retired  to  the  pulpit, 
the  veils  being  dropped.  They 
bowed  in  solemn  prayer.  As  they 
arose  a  marvelous  vision  was  opened 
to  both  of  them  (See  Doc.  and  Gov. 
no).  How  glorious  had  been  the 
fulfillment  of  the  words  of  the  Angel 
Moroni! 
Since  this  day  of  the  coming  of 
the  Lord  to  his  temple,  the  saints 
have  gone  on,  at  times  under  the 
most  trying  circumstances,  to  build 
other  houses  to  the  Lord,  and  within 
these  have  found  the  soul-enriching 
experiences  promised  those  who 
would  go  about  the  work  of  salvation 
for  their  dead. 
As  the  work  of  the  Lord  progress- 
es, the  great  temple  to  be  erected  in 
Missouri  will  one  day  be  a  reality, 
the  corner  stones  of  which  were  laid 
August  3,  1831.  Pointing  to  that 
day  and  in  preparation  for  it  there 
have  been  built  upon  the  earth  the 
following  temples  erected  by  a  peo-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
131 
pie  devoted  to  the  King  of  heaven 
and  the  fulfillment  of  his  excellent 
word. 
The  Genealogical  Society  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  which  was  established  in 
1894  ^^  *^^  Genealogical  Society  of 
Utah,  to  forward  the  vital  program 
of  the  Church  in  the  matter  of 
temple  work  for  the  living  and  dead, 
was  reincorporated  for  one  hundred 
years  on  November  20,  1944,  and  its 
name  changed  as  given  above.  In 
addition  to  the  many  services  of- 
fered to  members  of  the  Church  in 
assisting  them  to  do  temple  work 
for  the  living  and  dead,  the  Genea- 
logical Society  also  maintains  a  li- 
brary for  genealogical  research  which 
includes  at  the  present  time  over 
30,000  printed  volumes  and  over 
4,000  volumes  of  microfilm  records 
(including  over  one  million  pages 
of  original  records  from  North  Caro- 
lina and  three-quarters  of  a  million 
pages  from  Tennessee).  It  has  the 
largest  foreign  section  of  any  gen- 
ealogical library  in  America  and  in- 
cludes many  unique  collections 
among  which  is  a  copy  of  Boyd's 
Marriage  Index  containing  the 
names  of  six  million  persons  who 
married  in  England.  The  only  oth- 
er copy  of  this  Marriage  Index  is  in 
London,  England. 
Names  of  temples,  dates  of  dedica- 
tion, and  by  whom  dedicated  fol- 
low: 
Kirtland— March  27,  1836— The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
Nauvoo— May  1, 1846— Elders  Or- 
son Hyde  and  Wilford  Woodruff. 
St.  George— April  6,  1877— Elder 
Daniel  H.  Wells. 
.927- 
Logan— May  17,  1884— President 
John  Taylor. 
Manti— May  21,  1888— Elder  Lo- 
renzo Snow. 
Salt  Lake— April  6,  1893— Presi- 
dent Wilford  Woodruff. 
Hawaiian— November  27,  1919— 
President  Heber  J.  Grant. 
Alberta— August  26,  1923— Presi- 
dent Heber  J.  Grant. 
Arizona— October      23, 
President  Heber  J.  Grant. 
Idaho  Falls— September  23,  1945 
—President  George  Albert  Smith, 
Suggestions  ioi  Active  Reading  and 
Discussion 
With  the  help  of  the  suggestive  read- 
ings given  below  have  the  class  cany  on 
the  discussion  as  follows:  first,  answer  the 
question;  second,  read  the  assigned  part  of 
the  text  to  discover  wherein  we  must  "give 
heed  unto  his  word." 
1.  To  understand  more  fully  the  things 
of  God  and  the  great  blessings  given  in 
his  temples  one  might  well  begin  by  learn- 
ing more  of  the  spiritual  gifts.  Read  Doc. 
and  Gov.  46:10-33  with  the  notes  follow- 
ing found  in  the  Commentary'. 
2.  Within  the  temples  of  the  Most  High 
the  saints  are  drawn  closer  to  the  world 
beyond.  How  can  one  here  in  life  learn 
to  know  the  true  from  the  false  spirit  in 
preparation  for  the  finer  things  of  the 
Lord?    Read  Doc.  and  Gov.  50. 
The  supreme  joys  to  be  found  in  the 
temples  of  the  Lord  cannot  truly  be  dis- 
cussed, they  are  to  be  lived  in  sacred  places. 
It  is  hoped,  therefore,  that  this  second 
series  on  Ghurch  history  has  in  some  way 
awakened  a  desire  for  those  who  have 
studied  to  make  themselves  worthy  of  the 
Lord's  greatest  blessings  to  be  given  in 
his  holy  temples. 
For  pictures  of  Latter-day  Saint  temples 
see  A  Relief  Societ}-  Centenan-,  page  64.

132 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1946 
ViSiting  cJeachers'   ifiessages 
Sources  of  Strength— Charity 
Lesson  8— Charity  Never  Faileth 
Dr.  Lowell  L.  Bennion 
For  Tuesday,  May  7,  1946 
Objective:    To  encourage  people  to  put  their  trust  in  charity  as  the  unfaiHng  means  of 
improving  themselves  and  of  influencing  others  for  good. 
Charity  never  faileth:  but  whether  there 
be  prophecies,  they  shall  fail;  whether 
there  be  tongues,  they  shall  cease;  whether 
there  be  knowledge,  it  shall  vanish  away. 
For  we  know  in  part,  and  we  prophecy  in 
part.  But  when  that  which  is  perfect  is 
come,  then  that  which  is  in  part  shall  be 
done  away.  .  .  .  For  now  we  see  through 
a  glass,  darkly;  but  then  face  to  face:  now 
I  know  in  part;  but  then  shall  I  know  even 
as  also  I  am  known.  And  now  abideth 
faith,  hope,  charity,  these  three;  but  the 
greatest  of  these  is  charity  (I  Cor.  13:8  flF) . 
Paul  wrote  these  words  to  the 
Corinthian  saints  because  they  were 
disputing  among  themselves  about 
the  relative  importance  of  certain 
spiritual  gifts.  Some  saints  were 
making  a  show  of  the  gift  of  tongues 
—causing  confusion,  envy,  and  strife 
in  their  meetings.  Paul  did  not  in- 
tend to  minimize  the  value  of  proph- 
ecy, the  gift  of  tongues,  and  knowl- 
edge, but  he  knew  that  the  things 
we  know  in  part  shall  "be  done 
away"  with  when  a  fulness  of  knowl- 
edge comes.  He  asked  only  that  the 
Corinthian  saints  entertain  a  proper 
sense  of  values  and  cease  having  dis- 
putations concerning  divine  gifts. 
Love  is  at  the  heart  of  the  gospel 
of  Christ.  The  development  of  love 
and  of  the  other  great  attributes  of 
Deity  in  the  lives  of  individuals  and 
in  society  is  the  chief  aim  of  the  gos- 
pel. Prophecy,  knowledge,  and 
spiritual  gifts  inspired  of  Deity  will 
always  contribute  towards  this  pur- 
pose. 
The  passing  of  time  has  not 
changed  the  value  of  Paul's  emphasis 
on  charity  or  love.  Love  is  still  the 
first  commandment  and  the  end  of 
our  religious  striving.  Other  things 
in  life,  not  in  harmony  with  love, 
shall  pass  away.  Knowledge  alone, 
for  example,  will  not  bring  us  peace; 
knowledge  alone  will  not  enable  us 
to  rear  our  children  in  paths  of 
righteousness;  prophecies,  the  gift  of 
tongues,  a  theoretical  knowledge  of 
the  gospel  alone  will  not  guarantee 
us  a  happy  and  successful  life  to- 
gether in  the  Church  or  in  the 
world.  All  of  these  things,  to  be  of 
value,  must  be  accompanied  by  the 
spirit  of  love.  It  is  growth  in  love 
and  good  will  based  on  gospel-living 
which  will  endure  and  never  fail  us. 
Paul's  counsel  to  the  Corinthians 
applies  with  equal  force  to  us  today. 
Let  a  husband  and  wife  make  deci- 
sions with  charity  as  well  as  with 
knowledge,  for  their  decisions  will 
pass  but  their  love  will  endure.  Let 
a  mother  counsel  her  children  with 
love  as  well  as  with  knowledge,  for  a 
proud  youth  may  not  heed  his  moth- 
er's words  but  he  will  not  forget  her