EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - ~ Susa Younc Gares Business Manager - - - - - - JeanetTE A. HypE Assistant Manager - - - - Amy Brown LyMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VIII. ' ~ JUNE, 1921. 

VITAL QUESTIONS
The day of younger women with their eager enthusiasms, zest of conquest, and boundless vision opens wide its doors into Relief Society activities. The example set in the reorganization of our General Officers and Board in the choosing of so many young matrons will no doubt be followed by the stake and ward authorities. This is perhaps, just as it should be. I see this army with banners marching into the field so long occupied, almost exclusively, by the mothers and grandmothers; and as they file past my vision, I am moved to ask these blessed adventurers some questions: Are you strict observers of the Word of Wisdom? Do you play cards? Do you wear your clothing with that sacred modesty taught in the temple of the living God? Do you give countenance, by word or by example, to the deadly evil of so-called birthcontrol, or limitation of offspring? These are crucial tests in this wicked day and age, and unless our lovely and beloved daughters can meet the test fairly and triumphantly they are not yet ready to bear upon their shoulders the symbolic emblems of
EDITORIAL: 371
spiritual service so long and faithfully worn by the mothers of the passing generation. Writers are focusing attention on our "wasted generation." Immodesty of dress is decried in every decent corner of the land today. While great organizations, east and west, are devoted solely to the correction of these evils which we know are corrupting both the individual and social life. These tests should be applied to both members and officers of this and all other auxiliaries. Our youthful soldiers of the cross, now coming into public service, however, must now assume the direct burden of correcting these evils, and thus they may strengthen the morals of the community, What Then of the Woman Grown Grey in Service? Not least of Present day Relief Society Problems is the kindly taking thought for those older women who are now and Not in this Church and kingdom. There are still gospel principles to study, sad homes to visit, Meetings everywhere to attend. But above and beyond all, the temples open wide their Portals for all who care to enter therein. No educational nor Marriages? What do you know about Marriage for time and eternity? What are your objections to temple marriages? And 
 the grandmother will find herself in a wide, almost uncharted sea of youthful ignorance and prejudice which she can not satisfy nor correct without hours of study and prayer. Her work will open up before her in limitless possibilities. So we may all find use for ourselves and wide opportunity for loving, active service, as long as the flame of life burns in these aging bodies. And when the kind angel of death reaches over to snuff the fluttering light of life, we shall sink back on our last couch to pleasant dreams with the sure promise of wider fields of labor and more glorious realms of service. 'BOOK NOTICES One of the most charming expositions of beauty and nature has recently been published under the title of God's Country, The Trail to Happiness, by James Ofiver Curwood. Mr. Curwood himself says: "Nature is my religion. And my desire?my ambition?the great goal I wish to achieve is to take my readers with me into the heart of this Nature. I love it, and I feel that they must love it?if I can only get the two acquainted." The one objection that our Latter-day Saint readers would find in the book is that the author sets up Nature as a substitute for our Father in Heaven. The pantheistic, beautiful atmos- ' phere of his book makes the subtle appeal of infidelity the more dangerous to young, uninformed minds. However, the readers of the Magazine would not be thus troubled in reading the book. This book is published by the Cosmoplitan Book Corporation, 119 West Fortieth Street, New York. A book, Christianity The Final Religion, written by a Christian minister who has had wide experience in Mohammedanism, has just been published by Erdmans-Sevensma Co. Grand Rapids, Michigan, and is written by the Rev. Samuel M. Zwemer. The Chapter titles indicate the nature of the book and the conclusion reached by the Rev. Author appeals to L. D. S. Readers. Certainly the foundation thought of the triumph of Christianity will meet with general approval. TWILIGHT Maud M. Cook How calm, how peaceful, in twilight, as day In silent regret to the night gives away, And stops, in passing, to shed mellow light Over all, as a last loving touch ere her flight. A light, gentle breeze just stirs the trees, And whispers so gently of comfort and ease. How calm and how peaceful, is the twilight of life, After the toil, the turmoil, and strife Have passed; and left only the peace sublime. Steals into the heart, this softening time, Tempers the sorrows, brightens the joys? It brightens the pearls, discarding alloys? Surrounding it all with love's golden rays, Covering life's twilight with life's richest rays. HE LOVES ME By Abbie R. Madisen He loves me, he loves me, This I do know, For his eyes and his lips They tell me so. He speaks not a word, Just laughs and crows, But by these very signs A mother knows. W. R. McDONALD, Pres.; D. H. CANNON, Mgr. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market WILL LAST A LIFE TIME?36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY and! ? RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921, "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays _and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices. I Call at our Burial Clothes Department. Room 22 Bishop's Building. Prompt attention given all out of town orders. TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month For the past TEN MONTHS. A of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have You Seen It? Dependable The Deseret News Progressive The Utah State National Bank The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them. Officers Heser J. Grant, President. Cuartes W. Nistey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Atvin C. Stronc, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine, of which they will be glad to dispose at the price quoted be low: 12 Vols. Of 1915 Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1915 Leather Bound 2.00 1 Vol. Of 1918 Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols. Of 1919 Cloth Bound... 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919 Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920 Cloth Bound.. 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920 Leather Se Extra for postage. All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City. Utah. Bound volumes of the Magazine make appropriate gifts. Etc DELIVERED EVERYWHERE P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City See Cream For the "Good old Summer time" Phone Was. 3223 Bound...... 3.00 Watch for Our New "Mountaineer" Strong Seam Overalls, Auto Suits, Kiddies' Allovers 7 For Boys, Youths and Men. They don't rip; wear like leather. 4 Uses Roof Garden Chocolate (Sweetened) Cake Icing Bon Bon Dipping Hot Chocolate Eating New, different, delicious?Roof Garden Chocolate is a sweetened chocolate that is at once a dainty confection for eating, a bon bon coating, a rich drinking chocolate and an icing for cake. In any of its four uses, Roof Garden Chocolate requires no butter, no sugar, no eggs and no flavoring. And it's absolutely no trouble. Complete and simple directions are on every package. McDonald's New York Chicago Salt Lake San Francisco A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language?a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"?the kind they make at Phone Was. 2861 40 6 Main St., Salt Lake Lumiere Studio RELIEF SOCIety MAGAZINE ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year?Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year?15c Single Copy.