GUIDE LESSONS. 715
nickname, his place of residence, or maybe his trade name attached to his own, so that the deeds of places might be carried on legally without confusion and mistakes of title, because many men bore the same personal names in the same parish. That is, Roger Cruickshanks' son William would be William Cruickshanks, and Roger de Bois' son William would call himself William de Bois; thus avoiding confusion in legal matters and giving themselves an added name by which to distinguish themselves and their families in the shire and in the village.
Thus it was that the Domesday Book and the Battle of Hastings started a custom in England of adding another name to the personal name and making it permanent. It might be said that a name did not become a surname until it had been borne by three generations, for men had inherited the custom of changing their names, both personal or surname very frequently for one reason or another.
We are told by antiquarians, historians and genealogists that the same custom of taking an added name or a surname began to prevail in Europe at about the same period, that is about the twelfth century. However, not until the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries did surnames really become permanent and fixed.
QUESTIONS.
What races settled in Great Britain? Who were the Anglo-Saxons? What is the difference between the Danes and Norsemen? Who were the Swedes? Tell the story of William the Conqueror. What can you say of Battle Abbey? Describe the Domesday Book. When and how are surnames formed? What is a surname?
LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in January.
WHAT IS PUBLIC HEALTH. (Old Customs and New Methods.)
Public Health may be defined as the maintenance of the highest standard of human efficiency, physical, moral and mental, by each individual in the population. But to realize an ideal standard of health necessitates not only a study of the means by which this efficiency can be attained, and maintained, but also a knowledge of the causes which interfere and prevent this satisfactory condition.


Health is regarded by most people as a purely individual affair, why then, should we consider it a public concern. Because ignorance of the one reacts upon the many. Want of care on the part of one member of the family may cause an accident or condition of ill health, which may hamper the remaining members for months or maybe years. Take the carelessness of a factory workman, an accident occurs, what are the results? (1) Wages lost to injured man. (2) Retrenchment, if not poverty to his family. (3) Service lost to the employer. (4) National loss in case of frequent occurrence. Industrial carelessness in the United States costs annually fifty thousand lives, or seventy-five million dollars, two million injuries, or fifty million dollars.
One case of neglected contagious disease is responsible for thousands of preventable deaths and preventable ill health.
Then this great verity, that there could not be health of mind, nor purity of morals, without bodily well being, was recognized by the old religious teachers in the ancient civilizations. These leaders, for instances, Moses, Zoroaster, or Mohammed, combined the triple office of priest or spiritual adviser, lawgiver or controller of intellectual and social activities, and physician or protector of the physical welfare. A study of their writings show how intimate they considered the connection between these three sacred charges.
In the great cities of Jerusalem, Babylon, Nineveh and Rome and in Egypt, recent discoveries reveal the wonderful provision made for the protection of health by an adequate supply of pure water, by burning of city garbage, by the construction of great sewers to carry off waste matters, and isolation in cases of contagious disease. Their instructions entered even into such intimate detail as the washing of hands before and after taking food.
Old records show that, when these precautions were neglected, within a measurable number of years the great civilizations declined, because the strength of the people, as well as their moral standards, deteriorated.
For a long period, probably a thousand years, little attention was given to these matters, and there is reason to believe that as much as two-thirds of the population of the then known world was destroyed by plagues, chiefly due to depraved morals and filthy surroundings. Nevertheless, the same weight of responsibility did not rest on these people as does upon us, who have for our assistance all the researches of modern science. They perished for lack of knowledge, we perish from disregard of knowledge.
The stages through which man has passed in his efforts to attain a high standard of health may be briefly grouped as follows:
(1) Unconscious self protection; comfort, rather than consideration of health furnishing the motive for shifting quarters,
GUIDE LESSONS. 717
as food and water supply diminished or the accumulation of refuse became inconvenient.
(2) Religious fatalism, or the period of acceptance of disease and disabilities as the direct acts of the gods for the punishment of men's sins or for purposes of discipline.
(3) Awakened perception and knowledge of the real causes underlying human conditions. The realization that neglect to trace effects to preventable causes seriously interfered with human well being resulted in a return to laws for the control of members of a community, careless of the consequences of their own disregard of cleanliness, etc., and its effects upon their neighbors.
Therefore, historical records in the middle ages reveal efforts to check detrimental conditions by means of stringent laws. Even half a century ago, there were many who thought that with the passing of a law all would be well. But laws alone will not maintain public health; unless an educated public opinion and practice support and enforce each law it remains a dead letter. To secure this, there must be an educated population, and an individual realization that each personal act may have very far-reaching consequences upon the whole nation. One ill kept home may form a focus of infection for a large circle of neighbors. The strength of a chain is its weakest link; therefore the health and prosperity of a nation must be estimated not by its most sanitary city and finest youth, but by its most ill-kept family home and its lowest type of human being.
In our own day, we are seeing old methods give way to new ones in the light of the knowledge now at our disposal; for instance, fresh air once considered dangerous is now the physician's ally to secure recovery; bathing, regarded as injurious, is now looked upon as equally indispensable for the healthy and diseased. Twenty-four hours of starvation is now known to be better in many cases than drugs; in fact, the old faith in drugs is yielding to faith in giving Nature a fair chance, by keeping the sick person warm, quiet, clean and suitably fed.
The four preventable wastes in human life are:
(1) Preventable Deaths. What a loss to the country exists in the death annually of three hundred thousand infants; and while the death rates at subsequent ages are being lowered, there is a great increase at the age of 45 and upwards.
(2) Preventable Sickness. It is estimated that ninety-nine per cent of deaths from all forms of infection are preventable.
(3) Preventable Ignorance. It has been found that in every million persons only five thousand seven hundred are college graduates, and grade school education is not yet compulsory in every state.
(4) Preventable Inefficiency  due to want of training,


though the material be good, or want of good material, though the training be good.
The scope of Public Health Protection embraces:
(1) Vital statistics; that is, careful registration of births and deaths.
(2) Education of public opinion.
(3) Control of patent drugs.
(4) Care of the sick poor. (5) Protection of food, milk and water from adulteration, and by sanitation. (6) Control of nuisances  privy sanitation, housing, plumbing, nuisances, refuse removal, fly and mosquito control, etc. (7) Control of Infant Mortality. (8) Medical inspection of schools. (9) Control of diseases. Children should be early taught the proper care of the person 3nd the right exercise of bodily functions. Just here it may be well to enumerate some of the essentials of right living: ( 1 ) Nutrition suited to varying ages and requirements. (2) Fresh air, night and day. (3) Adequate sleep under good conditions. (4) Suitable recreation at all ages. (5) Brisk exercise of mind and body. (6) The right spirit toward work. If work were regarded always as an opportunity for use of skill, it would annihilate that sickly self-commiseration which paralyzes so much effort. (7) Definite aim in life. (8) Good habits. (9) Self-control. QUESTIONS. (1) Why is health a public concern? (2) Trace the stages of man's development in health standard (3) What are the preventable wastes in human life? (4) Give illustrations from your experience of the causes for such wastes. (5) By what means, public, domestic, and personal could these be controlled? (6) Enumerate the activities embraced in Public Health protection. (7) What is shown by the recent records of the death rate in this country? (8) Why is the registration of births and deaths essential to national health 7 CHARITY NEVER FAILETH The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints VOLUME V "May the Relief Society Magazine enter upon in noble mission so firmly gurrounded by the bulwarks of worthy and capable endeavor and enduring SMITH. truth that its career may be successful and glorious." JOSEPH F. Published by the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY ROOM 29 BISHOP'S BUILDING SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Mrs. SUSA young Gates, Editor Mrs. JaNETTE A. Hyde, Manager Mrs. Amy brown Lyman, Assistant Manager 
 MISCELLANEOUS PROSE. Mother's Christmas Story.... 686 Mothers in Israel H, 70, 329 Advice of an Aztec Mother to Mother Takes Up the New Her Daughter 109 Year Burden 7 A Quitter Almost 190 Mother's Valentine 78 A Short Biography of Mrs. Music 195 Rhoda Eldredge Merrill.... 491 Notes from the Field A 200-Year Calendar 23 27, 100, 154, Aunt Jane's Thanksgiving.... 618 225, 276, 411, 456, 524, 577, 638 Burial Clothes 707 Obesity 625 Child Welfare Problems 442 Our Biographical Number.... 547 Christmas Suggestions 695 Our New Board Member 339 Conservation Pointers 351 Our Relief Society Stake Presi