[Vol51 | March 1964 | Page 219 | Home | Cast Your Bread Upon the Waters | Olive Sharp]

Cast your bread upon the waters
Olive Sharp

FOR a long time I have been wanting to write an article — "Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after many days."

As a small girl out in Wyoming, I attended Sunday School in a little log cabin. I loved the music and the singing, also the small cards that were given each child on Sunday. They were not much larger than a large postage stamp, but the messages those cards held covered most of the Ten Commandments.

At first I did not quite grasp their meanings, but, as I grew older, those messages began to dawn upon me and I could see the ground they covered. We would receive a small card every Sunday, and when we had collected twelve, we would be given a small reward.

I am sure the things we commit to memory, while young, stay with us all of our lives, and that is why good deeds should be stamped on our children's memories.

Now that I am eighty years old, the blessings I am finding from several sources are coming back to me.

Once I helped a niece through high school. Now she is very kind and thoughtful of me, and for Mother's Day sent me a first-class jet ticket from Salt Lake City to San Diego, and return. That is where she is living.

Another little English girl I helped, and she helped me with my children, now takes us on nice trips in their car to such places as Los Angeles and Bear Lake.

A cousin, now living in Anchorage, whom I helped a little while her children were young and she was having a hard struggle, now is doing well in Alaska. The family have often invited me to spend the summer with them, and she and her husband called the other day in a new car and insisted that I return to Alaska with them. I found out how far it was and that it would take one week to reach their place.

Oh, how I would have loved to have gone through those large forests and the wild country, but I was afraid that I was too old, and that I might cause them, and myself trouble, so I did not go.

I could tell what a pat on the back, a smile, a word of sympathy mean to old friends, and also to myself.

My motto is, "Count that day lost when the low descending sun views from thy hand no worthy action done." Surely, ". . . as the twig is bent the tree's inclined."

If you cast your bread upon the waters, you will find it after many days.
