[Vol51 | March 1964 | Page 170 | Special Feature | "Charity Never Faileth" Edith | P. Backman]

"Charity
Never
Faileth"

Edith P. Backman

Member, General Board
of Relief Society

[Address Delivered at the Relief
Society Annual General Conference,
October 2, 1963]

THIS large sea of faces is a most beautiful, inspiring sight, but to stand before you and address you, I can assure you, is a very humbling responsibility. But it fills my heart with gratitude for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and for the strong, abiding testimony which is mine for the truthfulness of the Church and of its divinity. I am grateful beyond measure that I am a member of the Relief Society, the greatest women's organization in the whole world, and I am grateful for the opportunity to be able to serve with all of you sincere, devoted sisters. My testimony has become doubly strong because of that association with you, serving in an organization which has the highest ideals and standards by which to live.

We all know that even in a humble, little cottage, in a palace, in a ward Relief Society, or a large stake, or even in a small branch of a mission, charity never

faileth. And what an appropriate motto for our Relief Society association to have.

Moroni has given us a beautiful definition of charity. He said: ". . . charity suffereth long, and is kind, and envieth not, and is not puffed up, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked" (Moroni 7:45). And then he went on to say ". . . charity is the pure love of Christ, and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him. . . . if ye have not charity, ye are nothing, for charity never faileth. Wherefore, cleave unto charity . . ." (Ibid., verses 46-47).

Certainly, our dear Relief Society sisters cleave unto charity. They prove their true love for Christ by following his admonition, when he said, "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do."

This morning Sister Spafford read the names of several of our sisters who are visiting with us from faraway countries. We welcome them here, and we are grateful to have their spirit to buoy us up and to encourage us in our work here, because we know of some of the difficulties they are working under in the faraway missions, and although our languages may be different, our hearts are the same. Our spirits respond to the same love and charity, the same understanding. Our ideals and our aspirations are the same. Our desires to be good wives and mothers and to be of service are the same.

170

"CHARITY NEVER FAILETH"

THE Relief Society, established by the Holy Priesthood of God, blesses its sisters everywhere — the sisters on the Indian reservation, sisters who are students or wives of students or wives of servicemen who are far away from home, our sisters at home, and our sisters in every country in the world where the Church is permitted to function. It is a blessing to hear their testimonies and to hear the reports from these many wonderful branches of our Relief Society, and I hope that the prayer will be answered in behalf of those dear sisters who were prayed for this morning in the closing prayer, those who are far away from us, who are working under difficulty, who have that same love for the gospel that we have, may they be successful in their efforts and be able to accomplish the things that they would like to do. I was thrilled with the report of the growth of the Church and the wonderful accomplishments of those dear, devoted, faithful sisters in faraway South Africa. Naturally, I have a tender spot in my heart for the South African Mission because that was where my little family was permitted to go and serve some years ago. I was thrilled, and my heart was filled to overflowing when we received the little mission pamphlet, and on the cover of this was a picture of 100 Singing Mothers dressed in their white blouses. They had met in the beautiful city of Pretoria, which is the capital of South Africa,

and they furnished the music there for the dedicatory service of a new chapel. They had been given a promise. Our Heavenly Father said, ". . . my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." Yes, these Singing Mothers, this beautiful Singing Mothers chorus that we have with us today, and the Singing Mothers throughout the Church have received many blessings upon their heads because of the songs of righteousness which they have sung to our Heavenly Father.

There was a sister who was the wife of a serviceman who was away with her little family and her husband for the first time. She was invited to join the small Relief Society that was organized on the military base for wives of servicemen. She said that the sweet spirit of sisterhood that existed there, and the concern that those sisters had for each other, and the sweet association, were a great source of comfort and joy to her. She was taken seriously ill and was unable to take care of her little family while her husband was on duty. The Relief Society sisters came to her aid. They prepared meals and kept her home in order until she was able to return and was strong enough to take over for herself. It was here that this sister realized the true meaning of sisterhood and of service. She bore a beautiful testimony of

171

MARCH 1964

thanksgiving to her Heavenly Father for her membership in the Relief Society. She said that she was grateful to belong to an organization that offers opportunities for every member to be of service. And she appreciated the compact course of study and the great amount of help she received in rearing her family. But, above all, she was grateful for the spirituality which it brought into her home.

Yes, the Relief Society does bless the sisters everywhere, but with these blessings comes a great responsibility. What about all of our neighbors, all of our inactive sisters, all of those who have not yet caught the spirit of Relief Society work? What are we doing about them?

I pray that each of us will go away from this conference with a renewed determination to serve the Lord with all our heart, might, mind, and strength. With a prayer in our hearts, that with tolerance, and with humility and love and charity, that we will go out and reach those sisters, that we may touch their hearts, that they will have a strong desire to become members with us in this wonderful organization, that they, too, may share in the glorious blessings which are ours by being affiliated with the Relief Society organization. As we do this, always with a prayer in our hearts, let us keep our motto in mind, that "charity never faileth. Wherefore, cleave unto charity."

I am sure the Lord will bless us that our numbers will increase, and that we will receive much joy and happiness because we are able to share the blessings of Relief Society with all of our sisters. I ask for all of this humbly, in Jesus' name. Amen.
