[Vol51 | March 1964 | Page 185 | Home | Don't You Love Your Sisters! | Margaret Russell]

Don't you love your sisters!

Margaret Russell

We were standing on our respective porches, chatting. I, broom in hand, had just remarked on the lovely day. She had agreed that it was indeed lovely and, pulling on gloves, mentioned that she was going to see her sister.

I said, "Wonderful! I envy you."

She said, "You should. My sister is a doll." Then, obviously speaking from the heart, she said it.

"Don't you just love your sisters!"

The remark warmed me at the time and has rewarmed me many times since. I have come to the conclusion that the sister relationship is one of the very precious things of this world.

I was third in a family of five girls, so I have always had sisters. One of my first memories involves hiding behind a door after a punishment, with a hand suddenly reaching around with an offering of candy. I can also remember walking to that exciting but rather frightening place known as school, with that same hand firmly holding mine. And I can recall quite clearly — the moment still generates a glow — a tiny sister sitting on my mother's lap, smiling and holding out her hands.

We were a noisy, active group. My father taught school in small Wyoming towns, and we were always piling into the car to take a trip up to Five Springs or out into the badlands. Once we took a wrong turning and became lost, going on and on into the night with the headlights boring into the darkness and the stars blazing out above. After a time the moon rose. It was enormous and

185

MARCH 1964

deep red in color. Somewhere on the mountain there was a forest fire! The car became very still, with only an occasional, cryptic remark from one of our parents to break the silence. Suddenly, without any need for consultation, we girls joined hands and bowed our heads in prayer.

We loved to sing and did so almost every evening. To this day, five minutes after any two or more of us get together, the house is likely to be bursting with song.

My oldest sister was very popular with the boys. She was very popular with me, also, as she was almost never without a box of candy, often the kind with Brazil nuts in the middle. She had a difficult time, though, in many ways, because our parents being still young and tense, were determined to do their full duty by her. Any small misdemeanor found Plet sitting, cringing, on a chair while the law was explained to her in no uncertain fashion. Today Plet is a very special person, lovely to look at and to talk to, capable and womanly always. All I can say is — scoldings and chocolates must be magic therapy!

My second sister was very particular about her drawer. I am positive that she had the position of such article duly measured and recorded, because I can recall investigating with the greatest of care and still having to flee for my life later. Carol was always very efficient and talented. She learned to bake bread at an early

age and to "do" hair. She also directed the singing in the Primary at eleven years of age and played the piano a year or two later. She is presently a resident of Albuquerque where she gives away everything she owns that isn't nailed down. She remembers birthdays, keeps family records, and is, I can say without equivocation, the kindest, most thoughtful individual I have ever known.

Orvilla, the fourth one of our group, had blue eyes and dark hair worn in ringlets. Mother dampened the hair every morning and brushed the ringlets into place around her finger, anchoring them with bobby pins. On below-zero, Big-Horn-Mountains mornings these ringlets would become white with frost. The other distinctive thing about Orvilla was the way she broke things. It was always understood that she was never under any circumstances to be allowed to carry anything breakable. I can remember plodding along a dirt road one day with a little pest hopping and jumping about beside me, coaxing and coaxing to carry the mayonnaise. "I'll be so careful. I'll hold it so tight and walk just like this. Oh come on, please . . . ." Finally I gave it to her, and two seconds later she tripped over a rock and broke it. Orvilla lives today in California, in a small ward. She has a blackboard in her kitchen that is always filled with notations of the things she had to do this week. She writes rather droll, tongue-

186

DON'T YOU LOVE YOUR SISTERS!

in-cheek letters about the goings-on in the Golden State.

Ruth was our baby. She still is. I wonder if it's this way with all families. We five have been adults for many years, but Plet is still the "big" sister, and Ruth is the "baby." We look to Plet for a certain amount of guidance and are all rather free with our advice to Ruth. Anyway, be that as it may, Ruth was a very satisfactory little one, singing about "Master, the tempest is raging; the pillows are tossing high," and other interesting things. She was always bringing cats home and producing them from behind her back with a hearttelt ple-e-ease! This method had never worked with us older girls, but it did with Ruth. It's a wonder, though, that we didn't kill her. By the time she came along the rest of us were climbing the cottonwoods and walking the ridgepole of the barn with no trouble at all. As soon as Ruth could toddle we dragged her along. I was so used to romping around on top of the barn that I could not understand why neighbor children acted nervous, or why Ruth slipped once and hung, her skirt attached to a nail on the edge of the roof, until rescued. Ruth now has six little ones of her own. We talk together on the phone nearly every day, and her remarks are always interspersed with little "careful-there-Louis" and "well-go-get-the-mop, dear." She has an almost limitless capacity for love and patience and she is never, believe it or not, in

the least degree critical of anyone.

These, then, are my sisters. My blood sisters. Any time I see any one of them I am gloriously happy, and we talk, talk, talk.

And now I come to the thought that inspired this article.

I was sitting in Relief Society one Tuesday, enjoying and being mellowed by an exceptionally fine social science lesson. My eye fell on one sister who is so stalwart and good, upon sisters who have devoted their lives to others, a sister who has three sons on missions; the members of our presidency, who shoulder so uncomplainingly the heavy burden of work that their offices entail, of whose sweet spirits do much to insure that our meetings are always inspirational and worthwhile. As I looked at these sisters and the many other dear ones present that day, I felt the same glow of love, the same spiritual closeness that I feel for my physical sisters. And I realized, as I mentioned earlier, the preciousness of the relationship, and felt extremely blessed for having sisters in such abundance.

The picture came to me of Relief Societies meeting all over the world all of them attended by women who are striving to live the principles of the gospel, all united by a spiritual tie. How wonderful it is to be associated together! I am sure that all of you, everywhere, say it with me. Love our sisters? Oh, indeed, indeed we do.

187
