[Vol51 | March 1964 | Page 188 | Special Feature | More Value Than Many Sparrows | Margaret Woods]

More value than many sparrows

Margaret Woods
Wallsall, Staffordshire, England

[ILLUSTRATION: Black bird illustration]

THE old lady sat rocking in her chair before the open window. This had been such a strange country to her once. Many years ago, she had left behind well-known and dear associations, in order to seek greater happiness and love. The new life had sometimes caused her pain and many sacrifices, but now she had come to think of England as home.

Blackbird was one of her delights, these days. He would sit on an adjacent roof and peep at her through the kitchen window or perch on the huge stone by the path, and almost demand his breakfast.

"Vat a child he is," the old lady would say to herself as she took corn and soaked bread out to the lawn in the back garden. "I'll go and dig for worms later on, zen he can really enjoy himself."

One day, when she went out to feed the waiting birds, the garden glistened with frost. The bare branches now wore attractive white garments and the fence, along which the sparrows perched, was swathed in delicately frosted spiders' webs. It all looked so beautiful; but the ground was hardening and the lily pond was thinly frozen over.

"Neffer mind," said the old lady, "you shall have all the scraps of fat and I'll buy some suet for you, ven I go to town."

The winter progressed and soon the snow hung heavily on the roof tops, but the old lady faithfully kept her promises to the blackbird. It was a difficult task. The scavengers and birds of prey would spot the food and seize it the minute it was placed outside and, in order to protect himself, blackbird hid in the bushes, waiting his opportunity. This made it hard work for the old lady. She expended

188

MORE VALUE THAN MANY SPARROWS

herself to the limit in persisting to place new food on her lawn the minute the last meal was devoured. In this way, blackbird and the more timid ones, such as dainty thrush and cheeky robin, were able to pick up the crumbs that were left after the attack of the tough fellows was over.

THE morning came, however, when the old lady could not leave her bed. She tried, desperately, but the pain in her chest and the weight of her limbs was too great.

"You won't forget to feed my blackbird, will you?" she would say to those who came to tend her each day. But she knew that although the bird would be fed, as she had asked, that it needed the continual feeding of one who really cared and loved to be sure that the weaker ones received enough.

"How is blackbird faring? Has he been seen today?"

But others did not share her interest, although she knew they meant well.

The time came when the old lady was well again and able to leave her bed. She looked repeatedly for her beloved bird, but he never came.

"He must be finding his food elsewhere," she decided. "He has forgotten how I loved and cared for him. He might be . . . . . Oh, no! Not that. "But she wondered if he could have died from hunger because of the neglect of other people. She hoped not and continued to place food outside each day.

Then, one morning, she saw robin hopping about, eyeing the food from a distance. Retreating quickly to the house, she stood in the shadows and watched through her kitchen window. To her delight, she saw him — her blackbird. She knew it was he because of the odd little way he drooped one wing. He had come back! Oh! How happy she was. She wanted to rush out to him, but knew she must wait for him to become tame again. It would be a slow process, but if she was careful and diligent, he would again peep at her through the window and peck the tidbits she dug up for him.

She spent the springtime in fostering again his love and was pleased to see his gentle brown wife. The leggy thrushes and robin redbreasts were now also frequent visitors to her garden, along with the many, inevitable sparrows.

One mild, summer evening, she sat rocking in her chair by the open window. There had been a gentle rain shower which had refreshed the flowers and leaves, and now the red evening sun splashed the western sky. The old lady's heart filled with gratitude and pleasure as she heard what was to her the most beautiful sound in all the world — the song of blackbird as he sat high in the elder tree, flinging his regained message to the wide, glowing sky.

189

**the Home**
inside and out

**
