[Vol51 | March 1964 | Page 190 | Home | Who Plants a Garden Eva | Willes Wangsgaard]

Who Plants a Garden?**

Eva Willes Wangsgaard

I love a flower garden. Gardens hold
Our yesterdays, todays, and coming years.
Who plants a garden watches time unfold
As sharply pointed as the iris spears.
Her loving hands preside at beauty's birth.
She sees a plan become a living scene
Replete with color rooted deep in earth
As warm as flame or cool as ivy green.
She garners strength and peace of mind from soil,
Becomes an intimate with sun and wind,
Forgets her pain, her sorrow, and her toil,
Renews her faith, herself is disciplined.
A gardener's eyes reveal a forward look
And patience learned from wisdom's ancient book.

[ILLUSTRATION: Two roses with leaves in pink/red coloring]

The
World's Favourite
Roses Dorothy J. Roberts

OF all the flowers on the earth, the rose has probably had the longest and closest association with man. It is believed to be the first flower brought under cultivation and has the most extensive written record, dating back thousands of years.

Rose—the word is the mother of romance and legend. It is the symbol of perfection and love. Roses graced the gardens of kings and climbed the cottages of the poor. Roses are a part of our life and our heritage. People, places, and things wear the word rose in their names. Roses abound in literature and music, as well as in the gardens of the world. They are grown extensively, not only for their beauty but for perfume and flavorings, for medicines and vitamin C content of the rose hips.

191

MARCH 1964

It is believed that the rose originated in Central Asia; then spread to North America, to west Asia Minor, and Europe. There is evidence that a garden rose was cultivated in Greece about the fifth century B.C. and in Chinese gardens A.D. 1000.

The Moors, invading Spain, brought with them roses they had discovered in Syria. One was the first yellow rose to appear in Europe, the climbing Cathay Rose. Crusaders brought back roses; merchants carried roses from country to country, and from continent to continent. Out of the long and tangled history of the rose some facts emerge. Though most wild roses are pink or white, wall paintings in Crete, 4000 years old, depict the "Persian Yellow" rose.

Gardeners all over the world have cultivated and crossed and recrossed roses to bring us finally the magnificent hybrid tea roses, the reigning queens of our gardens today.

The horticultural named varieties are divided loosely into two classes:

1. The Hybrid Perpetuals (the old garden roses)
2. The Hybrid Tea Roses — now
