[Vol51 | March 1964 | Page 164 | Special Feature | Train Up a Child Marion | G. Romney]
[Address Delivered at The Relief Society Annual General Conference October 3, 1963]
[he said]
[by persuading them to disobedience]
[he continues]
[their]
[Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963]

Train up a Child

Marion G. Romney
of The Council of the Twelve

[Address Delivered at The Relief Society
Annual General Conference
October 3, 1963]

My beloved sisters: To me it is a signal honor to have been named one of your advisers. I intend to do my best to render such service as the calling entails.

I have thought to address you today as mothers on a text taken from the wise man's proverb: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6).

The selection of this text was prompted by my conviction that training our children is our best antidote to the godless materialism, irreverent secularism, declining morality, adult delinquency, increasing crime, and general disregard for the laws of God and the dignity of man which so plague our present society.

It is not my purpose to harrow up your souls by dwelling upon this sordid aspect of our times. My only purpose in calling it to your attention at all is my belief that unless these pernicious practices are checked, they presage the end of our way of life and my further conviction that you, as members of the Relief Society, have the potential to inspire the parents of the Church, particularly mothers, more effectively to train their children to avoid them. The Church can and will assist in that training. But it can only assist. It is not and cannot be a substitute for parents in this, their most urgent parental responsibility.

The importance of this responsibility was emphasized by the Lord in the very early days of the Restored Church, ". . . inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, [he said] . . . that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents" (D&C 68:25).

Eighteen months later he explained that all children are innocent before him in their infant state, but thereafter ". . . that wicked one cometh and [by persuading them to disobedience] taketh away light and truth. . . .

"But [he continues] I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth" (D&C 93:39-40).

He then spoke directly to some of the leading brethren, first to Frederick G. Williams. "You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction." I wonder if some of our afflictions, some of our juvenile delinquency, for example, could be due to the fact that we have

164

TRAIN UP A CHILD

not taught our children light and truth.

THE Lord did not leave Brother Williams in any doubt as to his responsibility in the matter, for, he continued, "And now a commandment I give unto you — if you will be delivered you shall set in order your own house . . . (D&C 93:43).

He then said that Sidney Rigdon had "not kept the commandments concerning his children" (verse 44) and commanded him to do so. He reproved Bishop Whitney for the misconduct of his children, saying of him he ". . . hath need to . . . set in order his family, and see that they are more diligent and concerned at home . . . (D&C 93:50).

Even the Prophet Joseph himself was reprimanded for failing properly to train his children.

PARENTS today are under the same obligation as were these early brethren. The consequences of failing to train our children are just as serious now as they were then. Although in the revelation the Lord spoke to fathers, the obligation rests just as heavily upon mothers. In fact, some of the brethren have said that mothers, having a greater influence upon their children, bear the major responsibility.

President Brigham Young, for example, said:

The duty of the mother is to watch over her children and give them their early education, for impressions received in infancy are lasting. . . . if mothers would take proper pains,

they can instill into the hearts of their children what they please. You will, no doubt, recollect reading, in the Book of Mormon, of two thousand young men, who were brought up to believe that, if they put their whole trust in God, and served him, no power could overcome them. You also recollect of them going out to fight, and so bold were they, and so mighty their faith, that it was impossible for their enemies to slay them. This power and faith they obtained through the teachings of their mothers. . . . These duties and responsibilities devolve upon mothers far more than upon fathers (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 201, 1951 edition).

Bearing this great responsibility, we must not be so busy with the urgent things pressed upon us in feeding, clothing, housing, and otherwise looking after the temporal needs of our children that we neglect the important things, the things calculated to fortify them against the evils of the world and prepare them for eternal life. We must not, as someone has said, have our minds and efforts so intent upon climbing the mountain that in our exhaustion we fail to see the view from the top.

PERHAPS a look at some of the conduct which must be corrected will suggest things we must teach. Consider, for instance, vandalism, which is one of the things in which juvenile delinquents specialize — pounding down drinking fountain heads, chopping new hardwood floors in unfinished houses, breaking windows, slashing furniture, stripping cars of hub caps and dashboard gadgets, for example.

165

MARCH 1964

Among the crimes they most frequently commit are (1) those of passion, principally aggravated assault, sex perversion, immorality, and "forcible rape," and (2) those which violate the command, "Thou shalt not steal," such as auto theft, burglary, grand larceny, and robbery.

It ought to be sobering to Latter-day Saints to contemplate and realize how completely every one of these misdeeds would be eliminated by practicing the things which the Lord has specifically directed us to teach our children.

Obedience, for example. "Your family must needs . . . give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place," said the Lord to the Prophet Joseph (D&C 93:48). And what were the Prophet's sayings concerning lawlessness such as is rampant among us? One of the things he said was: "We believe in . . . obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law" (Twelfth Article of Faith).

Proper teaching of and training in this one fundamental principle of obedience to the laws of the land would effectively eliminate vandalism and crime.

ANOTHER thing the Lord has directed us to train our children to do, which, neglected as it is, contributes to our present vexations, is to work.

"An idle brain," so the saying goes, "is the devil's workshop." This is no doubt true because the scriptures associate idleness with things most despicable. Describing the remnant of his people, as in vision he saw them, "after they had dwindled in unbelief," Nephi said, "They became a dark, and loathsome, and a filthy people, full of idleness and all manner of abominations" (1 Nephi 12:23).

The Lord, condemning idleness in this dispensation, associates it with juvenile delinquency and wickedness, specifically with greediness. "The idler," he says, "shall be had in remembrance before the Lord," adding, "I . . . am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children also are growing up in wickedness; they seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness" (D&C 68:30-31).

In addition to obedience and work, I want to mention another one of the many things the Lord has specifically commanded us to teach our children — namely, to pray.

Speaking of the inhabitants of Zion, he said, "They shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord" (D&C 68:28). He adds: "And a commandment I give unto them — that he that observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him be had in remembrance before the judge of my people" (D&C 68:33).

"Pray always," said the Lord to the Prophet, "that you may come off conqueror; yea, that

166

TRAIN UP A CHILD

you may conquer Satan, and that you may escape the hands of the servants of Satan that do uphold his work" (D&C 10:5). Particularly is daily secret and family prayer imperative in this day when the effect of the irreligious trend of the law of the land is to eliminate God and his righteousness from the daily lives and affairs of men.

No wise Latter-day Saint mother with an understanding of the power of prayer and the irreligious trend of our society will fail to train her children to pray. No person has a stronger weapon against the power of evil than he who with unbroken regularity goes night and morning on bended knee before his Heavenly Father in sincere and humble and secret prayer. I challenge anyone to find a delinquent among those who do so.

And mothers, don't underestimate the power of your own prayers in behalf of your children. Remember, it was the prayers of Alma, Senior, in behalf of his wayward son and his companions which sent an angel to bring them to repentance.

There are, of course, many other things the Lord expects us to teach our children which, for want of time, cannot be considered here. They are, however, all to be found in the gospel of Jesus Christ.

How best to teach your children you must yourselves learn through study, experience, and

the guidance of the Holy Spirit which "shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith" (D&C 42:14). Whatever your method, however, this you shall remember: your teaching, to be successful and effective, must convince your children that living the gospel is the way to happiness. If they feel that the discipline to which they are subjected is arbitrary; that without reason it restricts their normal activities and keeps them from enjoying life, they will conform only so long as you have them under your immediate physical control. Thereafter they will rebel and defy you. In some cases they will be worse off for your efforts. The following counsel which he Lord gave to the Prophet Joseph Smith is a sure guide:

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile— Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy:

That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death (D&C 121:41-44).

By the exercise of patience, long-suffering, and love, the good will and confidence of our children must be won. Time and understanding must be devoted to

167

MARCH 1964

teaching and training them so that they voluntarily comply with the revealed truths of the gospel. Little by little they must, while still responsive to your guidance, come to realize and appreciate that "men are that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25). That, as the Prophet Joseph said, "Happiness is the object and design of our existence; and will be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it." Your children must, as a result of your guidance, through their own experience come to believe and know that, as the Prophet further said, "this path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness, and keeping all the commandments of God" (DHC. V, pp. 134-135).

Teach them that, as Alma told his son Corianton, ". . . wickedness never was happiness" (Alma 41:10), and what Samuel the Lamanite said to the wayward Nephites, as he foretold their ultimate end if they refused to repent:

. . . ye have procrastinated the day of your salvation until it is everlastingly too late, and your destruction is made sure; yea, for ye have sought all of the days of your lives for that which ye could not obtain; and ye have sought for happiness in doing iniquity, which thing is contrary to the nature of that righteousness which is in our great and Eternal Head (Helaman 13:38).

SOMEHOW we must get our children as they grow up to understand these great truths. We can help them to understand it by approving proper conduct and

by letting them know that improper conduct brings sorrow. They can know when they are three years old if they are taught properly.

Both our homes and our society will be put in order when and only when, by precept and example, parents teach and inspire in their children a willing resolution to live the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. For when one gets a witness of their divinity and glimpses the joy of their promise, he will pray fervently, work diligently, and sincerely obey the commandments of God, which, of course, include the laws of the land.

Now, as I conclude, I would like you to feel the spirit of The Book of Mormon on this matter of training your children. Speaking to his people who had been moved to repentance, chastened and strengthened in their faith by his great farewell address, King Benjamin thus counseled and instructed them concerning the training of their children:

And again I say unto you as I have said before, that as ye have come to the knowledge of the glory of God . . . and have received a remission of your sins, which causeth such exceeding great joy in your souls, even so I would that ye should . . . always retain in remembrance, the greatness of God . . . and humble yourselves even in the depths of humility, calling on the name of the Lord daily, and standing steadfastly in the faith. . . . And behold, I say unto you that if ye do this ye shall always rejoice, and be filled with the love of God, and always retain a remission of your sins . . .

168

TRAIN UP A CHILD

And ye will not have a mind to injure one another, but to live peaceably, and to render to every man that which is his due.

And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil ...

But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another (Mosiah 4:11-15).

I remember reading this passage with one of my sons when he was still in Primary. We were reading The Book of Mormon together, a verse at a time, he a verse and I a verse. As we read this passage, he was so moved by the statement, "ye will not suffer your children that they ... transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil," that, as he thought of some of his own pranks, tears came to his eyes. From that time, until he grew to be a man, if ever he was of a mind to quarrel, all we had to do was to quote this statement, and his eyes would fill with tears.

I assure you, my beloved sisters, that if you can get into the hearts and feelings of your children the attitude and spirit of this great sermon, training them will be easy. Imbue them with the spirit of the gospel and our children will not have a mind to injure one another, but to live peaceably and to render to everyone that which is his due. Teach them, as Benjamin said, "... to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ... teach them to love one another, and to serve one another (Mosiah 4:15).

You know, sisters, if mothers and fathers would, under the direction of the Holy Spirit, strictly follow the commandments of the Lord and the counsels of his prophets to train up their children in the way they should go, the inhabitants of the earth would soon reach that glorious state enjoyed by the Nephites when "there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another," when "... because of the love of God which did dwell in ... [their] hearts ... there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness ..." (4 Nephi 2, 15-16). So blessed were they that of them the prophet-writer said that "surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God" (4 Nephi 16).

Although such a blessed state seems beyond our present hope, let us not forget that the Lord has given us the assurance that the survivors of our present generation will enjoy a like society. This assurance should, and I believe it does, give us a determination to train up our children in the way they should go that they, with us, may be participants in the fulfillment of that glorious promise. That it may be so, I humbly pray.

169
