[Vol51 | March 1964 | Page 228 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities | Hulda Parker]

Notes FROM THE FIELD

Hulda Parker General Secretary-Treasurer

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Canadian Mission Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music
For Mission-Wide Annual Convention, September 14, 1963

Seated at the left, front row, left to right: First Counselor Elva M. Adamson; President Caroline L. Pitcher; Second Counselor Jane Morrison.
Second row, center, in dark dress: Donna Harker, director of the chorus; at the right, fifth row: Sharon Holmes, accompanist.

Sister Pitcher reports: "Eighty-six Singing Mothers comprised the chorus, rendering 'Why Sing the Mothers Sing' and 'How Lowly Are Thy Dwellings.'
The theme of the convention — 'The Latter-day Saint Home Has Its Pattern in the Heavens' — was presented by Sister Pitcher. 'As a Light Shining' — reflecting the true spirit of visiting teaching — 'Ye Shall Do the Work Which Ye See Me Do' — was presented by the London District sisters with accompanying musical numbers beautifully rendered.

"Recognition was given to sisters achieving 100% visiting teaching and honorable mention to other deserving sisters. A spirit of love and good fellowship prevailed throughout the day. 'Every sister a missionary' was again particularly stressed. There was an outstanding display of handicraft from each of the five districts. Many of the sisters' first efforts at quilting were in evidence. Following a delicious luncheon, departmental sessions convened. Over two hundred were in attendance, some traveling as far as 600 miles to attend. All five of the district presidents and a majority of the branch presidents gave the sisters their support in the venture."

228

RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES

All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

San Antonio (Texas) Stake Relief Society Visiting Teachers Honored At Convention, June 15, 1963

Front row, seated, left to right: Angela Elizondo; Otilia Zeigler; Lucia Bremer; Margarita Favella; Maria Vasquez.

Back row, standing, left to right: Hattie Bitter; Fannie Ekstrom; Thilla Greathouse; Louise Turley; Carmen Martinez.

Kathryn K. Wills, former president, San Antonio Stake Relief Society, reports that there was an excellent attendance at the convention and a greater interest in visiting teaching was aroused. "Sister Lucia Bremer was especially honored as a member of the first Relief Society in San Antonio. The first meeting of the society there was held in her home. Sister Bremer and the other sisters in the picture were presented with a beautiful carnation corsage by Gladys Bremer, stake Relief Society board member, for their faithful teaching for over twenty years. Each visiting teacher present received a 'Pattern for Living' made by the stake board members.

"The play 'May We Come In?' written by Ivy Huish Jones, was presented in a very instructive and entertaining manner. The play depicted the importance of visiting teaching and the need of having love in our hearts when we make our visits. Talks were given by three of the sisters on various phases of visiting teaching. A social hour and refreshments were enjoyed by all."

Delpha Jeffers is the new president of San Antonio Stake Relief Society.

229

MARCH 1964

Pasadena Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions

Nell Ellsworth, President, Pasadena Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Singing Mothers of Pasadena Stake have for their chorister Ovena Mayo, and the accompanists are Della Cox, at the piano, and Lydia Smith, at the organ. This group sings regularly for two stake conferences a year, at special leadership meetings, and in wards on special occasions."

Irish Mission Relief Society Enjoys Unified Mission Bazaar
June 15, 1963

Sandra M. Covey, President, Irish Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Relief Society women representing twenty branches in Ireland sponsored a unified mission bazaar at Redhill, the beautiful mission home in Belfast. The fete was graciously opened by Mr. Leslie Stuart, official royal photographer for Northern Ireland. A fancy dress parade for the children, a vocal and instrumental quartet, a portrait stall featuring Mr. Charles Sinclair, a local cartoonist, and boat rides on Redhill Lake were especially popular. A balloon man clown and lovely hankie girl delighted the children, and families tested skill and luck in the various game booths. Items on sale, the results of many months of work, were displayed in gaily decorated booths and stalls, including handicrafts, children's toys, fish pond, wonderful home bakery, flower and vegetable stall, 'white elephant,' apron, children's clothing, homemade sweets, cosmetics, refreshments, and visual aids for families and teachers.

"Each Relief Society had heavy assignments and solicited help from inactive and nonmember women. Some organizations doubled their membership, and many women joined the Church. We were thrilled with the $1,000 raised, though the fete was closed early by heavy rain. Of special interest was a seventy-five page bazaar idea and pattern book which we had printed, containing hundreds of patterns and ideas. These were sold to Relief Societies in Europe and women's clubs in Ireland."

Ashley Stake (Utah) Closing Social and Inter-Faith Barbecue Dinner
May 1963

Mazie S. Christensen, President, Ashley Stake Relief Society, reports this unusually successful occasion: "The Ashley Stake Relief Society held a closing social in the form of an inter-faith barbecue dinner, served on the patio of the Ashley-Uintah Stake center. The picture shows members of the stake board, assisted by Bishop Ben Lindsay, as they barbecue chicken for the affair. An interesting display of articles made by Relief Society members during the past year was exhibited in the recreation room."

230

[PHOTOGRAPH - Group of women in white blouses and dark skirts arranged in rows, appears to be a choir or organized group]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Outdoor scene with people gathered around tables near a building with trees in background]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Indoor scene showing women working with what appears to be quilting or textile work, with various materials and equipment visible]

MARCH 1964

North Sanpete Stake (Utah), Mount Pleasant First Ward Annual Day
March 18, 1963

Left to right: Lavon McArthur, Secretary-Treasurer; Ruth Fowles, Second Counselor; Nellie McAllister, President; Elnora Larsen, First Counselor. Louise B. Johnson, President, North Sanpete Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Mount Pleasant First Ward Relief Society celebrated the founding of the organization by having a luncheon and program with an international theme. At one end of the hall a large map of the world was placed in the middle of flags representing various countries, and ribbons of the Relief Society colors indicated the location of the temples, and pictures of the temples were placed at one end of the ribbons.

"The last verse of the song 'Come Unto Jesus' was printed on a large placard and placed at one side. These decorations tied in with the decorations used on the tables. A collection of dolls, six to twelve inches high, from many countries, along with flags representing the different nations, were used, centered by a globe of the world, with blue and gold ribbon reaching out in many directions. Gumdrops were used to hold small flags from many countries. These flags matched flags used on the invitations, which were taken to all the sisters of the ward. They were asked to bring their invitations for use in finding their seats.

"The menu also carried out the same theme:
Swiss ham
Sanpete carrots
English rolls
Scalloped Irish potatoes
Chinese cabbage with French dressing
Hawaiian dessert

"The program also followed the theme:
Xylophone solo — medley of Scotch music
Cello solo — Hawaiian music
Swiss yodeling
Danish song (in Danish)
Origin and stories about St. Patrick's Day by a sister from Ireland
Vocal solo — 'God Bless America'

"The history of the ward Relief Society, from the time of its beginning in 1961, was related. Sixty sisters were present."

Uruguayan Mission, Carrasco Branch Pioneer Day Celebration, 1963

Helen Fyans, President, Uruguayan Mission Relief Society, reports that the unique "Pioneer Day" celebration held in the Carrasco Branch was typical of many similar celebrations held throughout the mission: "Organized under the direction of the Relief Society of each branch, the celebrations included a presentation of slides and narration about the Latter-day Saint pioneers, typical music, and square dancing. Decorations included wagon wheels, handcarts, and a big fire.

"In some areas the construction program was aided through the contribution of a 'Kilo' by each person attending the celebration. The 'Kilos' are used to sustain the Church building missionaries. The program was planned by the Relief Society Mission Board, headed by Sister Carmen C. de Galli. Other members of the board are Luz Oliva de Rodal, Maria Luisa DiPierro, Maria Elida Wins de Otero, and Alba Molinari LaBuonora. The celebrations attracted large attendance of both members and nonmembers."

232

[PHOTOGRAPH - Top image shows five women standing behind a table with a "RELIEF SOCIETY INTERNATIONAL" banner above them. The table displays various dolls and figurines, with small flags visible.]

Come unto Jesus from every nation,
From every land and isle of the seas
Unto the high and lowly in station,
Ever he calls, "Come to me, to me".

[PHOTOGRAPH - Bottom image shows people gathered around what appears to be a spinning wheel demonstration, with several individuals in period clothing observing the activity.]

MARCH 1964

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Rarotongan Mission (Cook Islands), Avarua Branch Work Meeting
August 13, 1963

Front row, left to right: Metua Jones; Tauri Taroro; Tuo Ngati; Pauline Mitchel.

Back row, left to right: Alice Vahua; Della Howard; Ngametira Tuaputa; Inez S. Moody, President, Rarotongan Mission Relief Society; Rongo Kea; Ina Taroro; Rau Tai; Ngaupoko Papera; Teei Ngatokoa; Metua Kura.

Sister Moody reports that the women in the picture are making Pareu skirts for the Polynesian Village opening at Laie. Around the table is a sample of the skirts. In the background are Taewaiwai quilts made by the sisters. "They have seventy-six skirts to make. It is quite a difficult, long process to prepare the Kirigai (grass), for they have to cut the young trees from the hills and take them to the beach, skin the outer layer of bark, and bury the limbs in the sea under heavy rocks, where the sea keeps them wet. They stay there for from five to ten days, then they are taken out of the water, and the inner bark is taken off. This is the bark they use for the skirts. It has to dry thoroughly for a day or two, then long strips are cut and tied into heavier bark to make the skirt. It takes about twenty stalks to make one skirt. After the skirts are made, the seeds and beads and shells must be gathered and cleaned to decorate the waistbands of the skirts. If there is to be any coloring in the skirt, then the material must be dyed before the skirt is made. To make seventy-six is a long, tedious job."

234
