flowers from Utah, California, and Idaho bore evidence of the love of relatives and friends.
Guide Lessons for June
LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in June)
THE DISPENSATION OF THE FULNESS OF TIMES Project of the Dispensation
Introduction. In the last lesson we discussed briefly some of the evident objectives of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. If our Theology teaches any one thing more than another, that one thing is that there is purpose in everything. When Dr. Karl G. Maeser said, "The Lord does nothing arbitrarily," he put in new form the statement of the Prophet Joseph Smith, "All kingdoms have a law." Even the accidents are governed by law; and it is upon the knowledge of this fact that insurance companies draw their lines of safety.
We now come to the consideration of projects of the dispensation. These are means and ways of reaching ends or objectives. The Kingdom of God is no pastime institution; it is a kingdom of projects. Purpose and project are the legs of the giant progress; they are the wings of the eagle of onwardness. It is better to leave projects for one's posterity than to leave them plenty to live on. Individuals without projects drift downward; a people without projects perish. In each and all of the dispensations. The Lord has provided project work and has led his people to initiating projects.
Project One. The Production of the Book of Mormon. A major project of several put on foot to reach the great purpose of flooding the world with light, such as the missionary project, the publication project, and the radio project of speeding the Gospel. Comparatively few agents were instrumental in putting over this first project; but what a work they accomplished! They gave to the world what was once derisively called the "Golden Bible;" but now, after a century of the severest test of fitness to survive. The book is spoken of with pride as the "American Bible," and declared to be one of the most famous books of this enlightened age. This product of the first project of the dispensation is a miracle in print; its production is a puzzle to the world, and ours


is the duty to study it; teach it to our children, speed it on its way as a complement of the Bible in the correction of error and the spreading of truth. Thereby we become joint heirs in the blessings of its production, under the irrevocable law that?To appreciate is next to having produced.
Project Two. The Organizing and Building up of the Church. Preparatory to the launching of this project, the Lord sent angels to commission men to speak and act for Him; and then under His special instructions the organization of the church was effected. The project was begun on Tuesday, the sixth day of April, eighteen hundred and thirty, and on that day sufficiently completed to give the church institutional standing with God and man. The divine authority with which the work was done, gave it divine standing, and the compliance with the law gave it legal human standing; but it took many years to complete the organization of the priesthood; and now, as it nears the end of the first century of its existence, the church has not reached its end in auxiliary organization. The charter members of the organization that has become a marvel and a wonder and is to endure forever were: Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Hyrum Smith, Peter Whitmer, Jr., David Whitmer, and Samuel H. Smith. In the building up of the Church, man has not been left alone; messengers from on high have helped. We are in the project of building it up?building beautiful homes, holy temples, edifices for worship, education, and recreation.
Project Three. Building Latter-day Saint Christian Character. From the first the training of youth has been an outstanding feature of this dispensation. The training of the Prophet Joseph Smith was a good one. The Lord had promised to "save up a seer." He used parents, and the parents used the word of God. Putting the scriptures into the hands of the boy was putting his hands onto the iron rod that led to the tree of life. The Foundation of L. D. S. Christian character is belief in Christ; belief in him as the son of God and the Resurrected Redeemer; belief in him as an ideal; belief in him and his Father as reachable sources of help, through prayer, as Joseph Smith did. So, then, our project is to build a believing character; led to prayer by belief; guided to the temple by belief; drawn into missionary service by belief; led to tithe-paying by belief; inspired into Christian conduct through belief; and made a bundle of Christian habits through belief and its complement?Christian conduct. The indispensable agencies for the putting over of this project are: the Christian home, the Christian Church, the Christian, school. The L. D. S. Youth of the dispensation is entitled to the help of these three agencies in the building of his character.