Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
Union Stake.
Three prospective Relief Society members arrived in Baker City January 20, in the persons of Mary Ellen, Margaret Lorraine and Mildred Linett, who were triplets born to Mrs. Ada Knowles Gray, an active Relief Society worker. The mother and babies are getting on nicely, and Union stake is proud of Mrs. Gray's contribution to the future membership of the Relief Society.
California Mission. (Monterey Branch)
CAST OF "THE RED LAMP," MONTEREY RELIEF SOCIETY
Miss Eva Gunther, a local missionary, writes that the Monterey Relief Society, which is a new branch, has fewer than 15 members. These members are energetic, however, and are accomplish-
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 219
ing much for the organization as well as for the Church in that locality. Through their helpfulness to those in need, they have become a valuable asset to the community. During the Christmas holidays a bazaar was held, and a play, "The Red Lamp," was presented. The entertainment proved to be most successful both financially and as an aid in the spread of missionary work. Friends who attended were so well pleased with it that they expressed not only a desire to become better acquainted with this special phase of the work, but also with the Gospel itself. These people had heard the teaching of the missionaries, but the realization that the principles are practiced has been impressed upon their minds through the Relief Society.
Northern States Mission. (Cincinnati Branch)
CINCINNATI RELIEF SOCIETY
The Cincinnati Relief Society has been a success ever since its organization, January 11, 1920, when it was a branch of the Southern States mission. Two years ago Ohio was added to the Northern States mission.
In December last year the Society held a bazaar, which brought over $100 net profit. Many sick and needy were assisted during the year, yet the yearly report showed $106 still in the treasury. The lessons as outlined in the Relief Society Magazine are followed strictly, and have proved their worth. The Magazine is greatly valued for the excellence of its contents.
The Society meets every Tuesday evening. The attendance is good, the harmony excellent. Many of the members have a long way to go, Cincinnati, like ancient Rome, being built upon seven hills. As a consequence there are many tiresome ups and downs, and those who live across the Ohio River have to pay bridge toll each way; and yet, in all kinds of weather, they come.
The Society has been favored with two visits by Mrs. Rachel G. Taylor, president of the Relief Societies of the Northern States mission, and her timely instructions and counsels have resulted in much good. The officers of the organization are seated in the front row of the picture. Reading from left to right, they are: Rosa Bang, 1st counselor; Christine Anderson, president; Bessie Horton, 2nd counselor; Lula Carpenter, secretary-treasurer.
Uintah Stake.
With a view of increasing subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine, the stake board offered as a prize to the ward having the largest percent of its members as subscribers, six Relief Society song books. Three of the wards were tied, each having two subscriptions more than actual members. The board joyfully awarded each of these three wards six song books.
Fremont Stake. (In Memoriam)
Mrs. Sarah Jane Wilson Tempest, better known as "Grandma" Tempest, ended her useful career on January 9, 1928, at the age of 86. A faithful worker in the ward Relief Society, she was for many years its presiding officer. She formerly worked with the Y. L. M. I. A., as counselor, and held other church offices. "She was a real friend, a true christian, a faithful Latter-day Saint."
Many of the white-haired grandmothers who attended the funeral remembered "Grandma" Tempest when they were children, and when their parents or other dear relatives were ill or were laid away and they needed sympathy and help. Some of these had been her neighbors for over 40 years.
Mrs. Tempest's life has been varied and interesting. She was born in Stockport, England, and was blessed when a babe by Apostle Parley P. Pratt. Her parents afterwards went to Cadiz, Spain, where her father supervised a cotton mill. Afterward, returning to Hull, England, she was baptized at Grimsby by Elder Seymour B. Young in 1857. The family moved to Halifax, where she married a John Smith, by whom she had one child, Walter Smith, now a prominent citizen and a member of the Baptist church in Halifax, England. This marriage proved unhappy, and a separation followed. She left her native land on the sailing vessel "John Bright" in 1866. On her way to Utah she stopped at Nebraska City, where she resided for some time and met and married Phineas Tempest. Eight children were the result of this union. Funeral services were held for Mrs. Tempest in the First Ward church, which was beautifully decorated; and 16 flower girls laden with beautiful