[And All Eternity by Carol Read Flake]

and all eternity. The Lord admonished the saints early in their history to teach their children the principles of the gospel, and if this was neglected the sins of the children would fall upon the heads of the parents. It is to be hoped that most Latter-day Saint parents recognize the teaching of the gospel as a paramount duty; that they do pray with their children; they do encourage them to seek first the kingdom of God and its righteousness. The Church program affords many opportunities to stress and teach righteous living. The blessing of a child should be a-day when the family gather and rejoice together that a new member has been added to their group. The ordination of the boys to the Priesthood and their advancement in the Priesthood 247 should be noted; the missionary and his or her farewell and homecoming; the boys and girls as they receive recognition in Sunday School, M. I. A., seminary, and other Church activities all make wonderful opportunities for family gatherings. Summertime, special holidays, such as Christmas, Thanksgiving, Washington's and Lincoln's birthdays, Valentines, family birthdays, vacation days, ward outings, reunions, and special days, all make opportunities for families to celebrate together. George Cannon's _ birthday has been a red-letter day in my life since my marriage forty-six years ago. On that day tributes to that great missionary and spiritual leader are paid and his life's work reviewed.
Each year the members of his family are made to appreciate their great sire more and more. My father, President Grant's birthday has likewise been celebrated, and I hope all their lives his children and his children's children to the latest generation will recall in song and story his achievements as a father and a devoted servant of God and his fellow men.
There are few families in the Church who do not have a _ background of ancestry that will make any gathering faith-promoting and interesting. And so a splendid resolution for us mothers should be, "Let's get the family together often." ——— 5; pring Beatrice Knowlton: Ekman Now Spring, with scented blossoms in her hair, Walks hand in hand with April down the land And all the trees their virgin mantles wear; Bird song and hum of bees are heard again. Norma Wrathal] T was on the fourth day of Oc community was called Willow il tober 1850, that t ° men rode Creek atcr, the nam Was changed into the valley est of Tooele, to Crantsville In honor of George tah, and looked '3
Out for g Place MM Grant, a TOther of Jedediah O start a settlement. H Same Grant George Grant, 4 colonel jn tive Prompted them that leq Other the Nauvoo gion, was Sent b Pioneers to brave the hazards of the Brigha Young 'to take large of "sert, danger from | dians, ang he defen f the little settlement the fear of th nknown, It was bl it coulg © SO itself. Early j he love of the S°spel and the desire 39 » 4 townsite Surveyed at ° gain p eG, security, and Teligious Willo F Teedom for their loved nes, The two me | Clear aroun akeside, Near the Of the lake, and e Stansbury Island, g sl outh Wiy- 10rt distance Out into the lak explored it to » furnish winter for Stazing livestock. Ms is Skul] Valle one day, hile Harri N the east. Son Severe SCarching for cattle em and Northern Part of the town, Stolen by the In 'ans, he found two Many farms are Dlesseg with natural] skulls, and so Named the valley, flowing wells, so that their 9
Ners The Cedar Mountain Separate ° not have to "Pend upon the Skul alley from the Great Salt Mountain treams ¢ rely. In 10- Lake Desert—4 desert Which can neer days. The first f] Wing well] Was never blossom, It is, In q Way, a dug by John w. Cooley, and of th, lurin the unwa When jt Was first settled, the traveler to his doom by its strange Page 248

GRANTSVILLE AND THE DESERT
249 mirages. Tlie water which rises to its surface is salty and unfit to drink.
Even today, with the railroad crossing the northern end, and wilb a national highway chartered on a road map to guide the tourist, one would tremble to have his car break down on some lonelv stretch of the road.
That early explorers crossed this land with no knowledge of its hazards is, in itself, a miracle. It is the opinion of the historian Charles Kelley that men like Jedediah Smith,
Captain Bartleson, Christopher Carson, John Charles Fremont, and other intrepid explorers of this most treacherous desert of North America, should have their names and their deeds recorded beside those of the other great explorers of our nation; but so far, too little has been known of them.
This great salt plain was at one time covered by the waters of the Great Salt Lake. The Salt Desert has a length of one hundred miles, and is about seventy-five miles wide.
Evaporation has removed the surface water, leaving only a great level expanse of mud and salt. No vegetation grows upon this waste, no fresh water enters it, and as far as the eye can see, there is a limitless expanse of dazzling white salt plain. In dryplaces, and during the summer, this plain is in parts hard and smooth, offering little surface resistance, so that cars seem to skim over its surface. One of these places, the Bon-
LOG CABIN WHICH BECAME A PARF OF THE FIRST HOUSE
BUILT IN GRANTSVILLE
This cabin was built by John W. Clark (not a member of the family related to President Clark), It has been donated by Mr. Clark Jefferies, its last owner, to the Grantsville chapter of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers and is to be used to house rehcs.

250
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— APRIL 1949
MONUMENT ON THE SITE OF THE OLD FORT neville Salt Flats, is now used for testing racing cars.
But in damp stretches, and during wet weather, wheels bog down in a mud which is like glue; it must be scraped from the wheels, and will cling to whatever is used for scraping. Early emigrants crossing the desert on the way to California, had to abandon their loads piece by precious piece, sometimes even the wagons themselves, in order to cross this desert. Because of the peculiar properties, there is no erosion, and the prints of the wagon wheels, and even footprints, are preserved in the salt plain.
The first white man to cross this desert was Jedediah Smith, one of those who explored the Great Basin under General Ashley, in the years
1824-1827. Although credit is usually given to Jim Bridger for the discovery of Great Salt Lake, the honors should be shared with Smith and Provost, who discovered it the same year, 1826, each independently of the others.
TOURING the first year, the little band of settlers fled to Pine Ganyon because of danger from the Indians. Thcv had tried to follow the admonition of Brigham Young:
"Don't fight the Indians; feed them," but to no avail. During the months which followed, the pioneers hauled logs from the canyon and sold them to make a few dollars. Prices were very high that year, ten dollars a hundred for flour, and other prices in proportion. But in spite of the hard times, they saved
$380 which they invested in oxen.
In 1852, they returned to Willow
Greek and took up farming. At that time, a branch of the Ghurch was organized, with Benjamin Baker as presiding elder. The following families comprised the population of the little village: James McBride,
Harrison Severe, Thomas P. Watson, William Davenport, Samuel
Steele, Wilford Hudson, William
Daley, and William Pope.
Indian troubles did not end with the first year. In 1853, it was necessary to build a fort for protection of the settlers, in case actual war should break out. No part of this structure remains standing. The north, west, and south sides of the old fort were of mud, five feet thick

GRANTSVILLE AND THE DESERT
251 at the bottom, twelve feet high, and eighteen inches thick at the top.
The east wall was of adobe, but it was never finished. The total length of the wall was 120 rods, built at an average cost of $25 a rod, thus making the total cost about $3,000.
In early days in Grantsville, livestock growing and farming were the principal industries. Cattle drives were organized when it was time to take the cattle out to the winter range or to gather them in for summer grazing. In this, as in all important undertakings, the bishop of the ward directed the activities.
'HpHE little community of Grantsville continued to grow, and many people who have become prominent once called it home.
Although President Heber J.
Grant was not a native of this valley, he spent two years in Tooele
Stake. It was shortly before his twenty-fourth birthday that young
Grant was informed that he had been appointed to preside over
Tooele Stake. He was not happy about it; in those days, struggling to make his way in the world and with many responsibilities, he did not see how he could carry on his business in Salt Lake, and at the same time supervise one of the most scattered stakes in Zion, spreading as it did all over Tooele Valley, and out to the Nevada line on the west, taking in the small towns scattered across the desert. This was in the horse and buggy days, and it was no mean task to make such trips. But, with characteristic fortitude, he answered the call. He received no material aid from the Church, and had to pay his own way to and from Tooele, and, at the same time, earn enough to support his family and carry on his business.
President Grant labored as president of Tooele Stake from October
1880 until October 1882, when he was called by revelation through
President Taylor to the high position of an apostle. This call came to him one month before his twenty-sixth birthday.
The people of Grantsville take pride in remembering that it is the home town of President J. Reuben
Clark, Jr. He was born in Grantsville, in a rock house built by his father from rocks hauled from the canyons, and which stood near the estate of Samuel Woolley.
President Clark's father, Joshua
Reuben Clark, came to the West as one of many who were looking for mines and minerals. He arrived in Farmington, Davis County, Saturday evening, March 9, 1867. He
THE OLD MEETINGHOUSE
COMPLETED IN 1866
This building stands where the old fort was built, the north wall having been about
143 feet north of the chapel. It is now being remodeled and is the property of the Grantsville First Ward.

252
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— APRIL 1949 might have arrived at his destination a httle sooner, but Brother
Clark would not travel on Sundays, waiting over each Sabbath until the following day to resume his journey.
It was in Farmington that Brother
Clark, not then a member of the Church, attended his first Latterday Saint service and was deeply impressed by the principles of the gospel and the sincerity of the people.
A short time before his baptism into the Church, he attended April
Conference in the Tabernacle. The following account of his impression of Brigham Young is taken from his diary:
Brigham Young is about five feet eight inches tall, and weighs about one hundred eighty or ninety pounds. He has a good supply of auburn hair. His beard is getting a little gray, and when walking, his eyes are generally cast toward the ground.
He has what might be termed a smiling countenance.
Mr. Clark was baptized in 1867, and the next year he came to Grantsville as a school teacher, starting school with twenty-nine pupils. The school was held in a one-room adobe house, a part of which is still standing. In those days, the teacher had to accept produce in part payment for the pupils' tuition. He boarded with several families, eventually with the Samuel Woolley family, through whom he became acquainted with Brother WooUey's sister,
Mary Louisa Woolley, and fell in love with her. T hey were married December 31, 1857, in Salt Lake City by President Brigham Young.

William Jordan Flake was a man of vision and determination. He was called by the Church authorities to help colonize Arizona, and in 1878 he moved his family to the Little Colorado River area. There he founded the town of Snowflake, named jointly for him and his associate, Erastus Snow.

He served faithfully in many Church positions and civic responsibilities. He was a member of the territorial legislature and helped establish schools and other institutions in the area. His descendants have continued to serve the Church and their communities with the same dedication he showed.

William Jordan Flake died March 12, 1932, at the age of ninety-five, having lived to see many of his dreams fulfilled and his posterity well established in the gospel of Jesus Christ. His life was a testimony of faith, hard work, and devotion to the Lord and His work.