[Easter-Lily Floor by Julene J. Cushing]

Easter is fraught with deep meaning.
Faithful ones who appreciate the "author and finisher of their faith" in their hearts join in the glad cry: "Hosanna!
Blessed be the name of the Most High God!" The Boy There Christie Lund Coles ENNY lifted the small dog higher on his shoulder, slowed his step, and leaned against the barn to catch his breath. He stroked the small black and white animal saying, "Nice little feller. What's your name?" The dog whined, and, suddenly, the boy winced as he noticed a bleeding gash on one hind leg. "Gee," he murmured, gently, "we'll fix it. You'll be okay. If Pa will let me keep you, I'll name you Tip. I'll take good care of you." He leaned forward to look around the corner of the barn. His father was in from the fields for lunch.
Right now he was bending his dark head under the water pump, washing for lunch. It would be a good time to ask him. He started forward, then he paused fascinated and afraid at the sight of his father's large hand lifting and lowering the pump handle.
Denny felt sick with shame, remembering that it took all his strength and both hands to work it and then the water never poured out like it was doing now. | His Pa was a handsome man as he shook the water from his hair and dried his hands. He was six fect, three inches tall and was stronger than any man in towns around here. Once, he had seen him lift a wagon box with one hand.
Maybe that was why he was so frightening to him...
Because he was so big and so sure of himself, because he talked too loud.
When he was angry his voice was like who could help thunder or the roar of a big flood, the kind Pa told him they used to have in the valley beneath here. Still... He loved his father with a stronger, different kind of love than that for his mother. It was a sort of reaching up, of aching for the man's regard, though he supposed he'd never really win that, for once he had heard him say to his wife, "To think that I sired that little runt.".
There had been laughter in his voice, but Denny hurt inside whenever he thought of it. He was a runt, and you couldn't blame Pa for wanting a big son, one in the fields, and with the horses, instead of him who stood shaking here, scared to go and ask if he might keep the poor, hurt critter in his arms.. It wasn't that Pa ever hurt him, or that he would now. It was likely he'd just say, "That ain't a dog, that's a contamination," or something like that. His father liked big dogs, like Shep who had been gored by a bull while trying to pasture it.
Denny had loved Shep, too, but there was something about a little dog like this one that made him feel strong and good. He could pick him up, talk to him, though he had to be careful of the sore leg that was still bleeding. | Even if Pa wouldn't let him have the dog he would help fix the leg. He couldn't see any animal suffer. He had tears in his eyes the day he buried Shep, when he put his hand on Denny's shoulder and said,  226 "Don't feel bad, boy. He died doin' his job.
There ain't no better way than that." DENNY watched his Pa take a long drink of water from the tin dipper hanging beside the well, saw him put the dipper in place, plant his hands on his hips, and gaze far out over the west field that was plowed and ready to be planted with the early wheat. He looked happy, maybe now was as good a time as any to ask him about the dog. He couldn't wait much longer for the little fellow was beginning to struggle against the pressure of his arm.
Breathing deeply, he stepped forward, started up the path between the chicken coop and the rabbit hutch, past the woodpile, over the chips that covered the walk, up to the enormous oak tree whose lacy shade reached from here to the well and even up to the kitchen porch. His father couldn't see him, so he paused once more to catch his breath. Suddenly, Pa made a motion as though starting for the house and Denny hurried forward, almost stumbling to the ground as he did so. Pa heard him and turned. His dark eyes looked first at the boy, then at the dog in his arms. He asked briefly, '""Where'd you find that?" "T found him over by the highway.
Somebody must've put him from a car.
Else he's come a long ways, he's all dirty and his leg's hurt." "You don't figure to keep him?" "T kinda hoped to "  "Yer Ma wouldn't stand it. He'd chase the chickens and bother the horses. That's all little dogs like him is good for." "But Pa " "Now, none of your 'buts'.
Bring him over to the porch and let's have a look at him."
Denny carried the dog carefully to the porch.
Then his father reached over and took the animal from him and laid it on the porch while he bent on one knee to examine its hurt leg. The boy couldn't look at it.
Each time the dog whimpered with quick pain, he felt a sickness in the middle of his stomach. He kept his eye on the tomato plants his mother had set out in coffee cans until time for planting. Then Pa said, "Here, boy, go fetch some water, good and hot. And a clean rag." He was glad to get away, to go into the house, to go up and kiss his mother who was standing by the hot stove pouring flour thickening into bouing carrots. He wanted, for just a moment, to feel the good sureness of her body against his. "Hello there,' she greeted him, touching his hair with her roughened fingers, "you been gone a long time." Then, wiping a streak of soot from his face, she said, "Dinners most on. Your Pa ready?" "He's fixin' a dog's leg. I found it on the highway. He said you wouldn't let me keep it. Won't you Ma? Won't you please?" She put the blue bowl of thickening on the warming oven while she stuck another piece of kindling into the stove. Then, hesitantly, she told him, "If your Pa will let you, THE BOY THERE I won't interfere. Sometimes, he puts words into a body's mouth." "Gee, Ma, you're swell. He wants some hot water and a clean rag." "Pour some from the teakettle. Pll get a cloth.
Mind the dog don't chase the chickens none." "You won't need to worry.
Watch it, Ma. Honest, I will."
Holding the screen door open with his foot, he carried the basin of water with both hands. He saw the dog lying on its side. Pa was holding the bad leg by the foot. The dog seemed to know he was a friend for, though he would lift his head as though he wanted to bite Pa, he would lick the large, brown hand, instead.
Denny glanced at the wound and saw an ugly gash that showed white sinew and quivering, bleeding flesh. He put the washbowl down swiftly. His father said, "Well, tear off a piece of cloth so's I can bathe this. And hurry. I ain't got all day." Shaking, Denny managed to get a piece of rag torn off and handed it in the general direction of his Pa. It missed his hand and the man looked up, "Watch that." His eyes came up to meet the terrified eyes of the boy. He let go of the dog and said, "For gosh sake, what ails you? A dog would die if it depended on you for doctorin'. Git in the house. Go on now, git!" Obeying, Denny started through the door, feeling not only sick, but sorry and ashamed now, too. He wanted to stay and show his father that he could be of some help, but there was no turning back now.
Before he could put foot on the worn kitchen floor Pa was up and beside him, putting his hand Pl 227 on top of his head, as he told his wife, ""Take care of this young 'un.
Give him a spot of the soup you was fixing."
Water rose in Denny's throat, into his mouth. He wanted to bend and kiss his father's hand as he had seen the dog lick it a moment before.
While the thought was still warm and sweet in him, Pa touched his head again, ruffling his hair, saying, playfully perhaps, "He's a sissy, Ma," and something seemed stricken inside the boy.
When his mother tried to spoon warm soup into his mouth he pushed it away. UT the dog stayed, and spring passed with its shimmering beauty, its newness, its smell of turned earth and lilacs and blossoms in the long orchard north of the house. He loved spring, but he loved summer too, especially the purple evenings when he brought the cows home from the pasture across the creek bed where he wet his bare feet in the shiny water, and, later, felt the warm dirt cling and trickle between his toes. Ma had warned him not to get his feet wet, but he hadn't had the cough so much this summer and he was able to help. He kept telling himself that he'd show his Pa. He'd show him. Still, he was surprised when a few days later his father said to his mother, "Well, Ma, the boy there is looking right spry. Tim Jones needs someone to help thin beets. He needs him now.
Think you can spare Denny?" Ma looked up sharply from peeling potatoes, hesitated, then said, 228 "Why, yes, I 'spect... If you think best." "Sure, it'll do him good. Get a few of his things ready and I'll drive him over on my way to sce Spence."
Denny hadn't ever slept away from home; he couldn't imagine not sleeping in the same house, not waking to see the shadow of the apple tree on his window... Yet, maybe, this was his chance. Still, it was hard to kcep a wobbling out of his knees when he saw Ma packing his shirts and socks. He thought there were tears in her eyes—like raindrops in harebell cups—but, when she looked up she was smiling, proud like. And he felt taller when Pa said, "Mind yerself. Do yore job, but don't let him drive you too hard." He felt like bursting, yet he didn't speak for fear it would spoil this moment, saying goodbye, climbing into the old car beside his Pa— like another man Yet, after three days at the Jones'. Place, he knew that he was more than a little homesick. No full week had ever seemed so long. The sun had been sweltering in the beet fields; the nights had been sticky hot in the small attic room where he slept with the smell of dust and heat. He kept wondering what they were doing at home. He pictured them, morning, noon, and night. He longed for the feel of Tip's moist nose nuzzled against his hand, his small, furry body pressed against his leg. He missed Ma's smile, the questions she asked, he missed Pa's booming voice, his sureness. No one here had talked to him much. Mrs.
Jones was always hot and cross. But then she had  five kids littler than he was, so he couldn't blame her. Mr.
Jones tried to be jolly, but there was something forced about it and he was stingy and mean in little ways, not at all like Pa. On Tuesday, Mr.
Jones said at the dinner table, "We'd best hurry up.
Looks like a storm's coming," and Denny, with food still in his mouth, got up and followed the man outside, took his hoe, and went to the ficlds. By Friday the clouds overhead really began to move together in great clusters of darkness. It looked like storm, sure enough. The water in the ditch below the field was red from the clay dirt above, the sun that had been bright carlier was dulled' to gray—a strange, dark grayness that hung over the world like the faded shawl Ma wore gathering eggs in the wintertime. And now the clouds were moving as though giant hands were pushing them swiftly, making the sky almost black. The air was moist and cool even while it took your breath away with its heaviness. DENNY'S hand felt wet on the shovel handle; there was a strange tremor in it. He had heard tell of the floods that had come down into the valley from the hills, terrible floods that tore down houses and sent boulders crashing into everything. He had never seen one and never really feared it since their place was on a hill nearly two miles from here. The water looked red for sure now and there was a flood-smell in - the air. He had smelled it oncewhen the creek back of the west (Continued on page 283)