Thanksgiving Day in the Hospital. By Ida Stewart Peay. In her narrow white bed at the big hospital, Evelyn was crying bitterly. Since she had been brought into the ward early that morning she had turned her face uncompromisingly toward the wall, and abandoned herself to the full measure of her misery. At sight of her heaving shoulders, the half dozen other women in the room exchanged concerned, curious glances, for in this great house people are ? well, sort of on their mettle, ? unless something unusual, even for a hospital, is wrong, emotion is choked back, all try to maintain a brave countenance; so they began to speculate in pitying whispers. Evelyn was entirely unaware of their existence. With the indifference born of supreme moment, she sobbed aloud her despair. What had she done, she wailed to herself, in angry protest, that she should be shut up in this horrid prison, chained to the bed, racked with pain, starved and forgotten ? while all her family, neighbors and friends, were enjoying themselves to their hearts' content. They had no distracting pain, they could eat anything they wished ? were, perhaps, at that very moment, sitting down to the big turkey dinner and chattering over what entertainment they were to have in the evening. At the thought she groaned and sobbed afresh ? her lot was almost harder than she could bear. And this was Thanksgiving Day! Thanksgiving Day, indeed! In the past, she had spent many pleasant Thanksgiving days (though she had not always thought them so at the time), but today she certainly had nothing in the world for which to be thankful. From the bottom of her heavy heart, Evelyn pitied herself and thought herself the most abused person in the world. The nurse ran in several times with a cheery word, but Evelyn would not be cheered. Her family and friends came with flowers and words of encouragement: Evelyn refused to be encouraged. She accused them of belittling her suffering. She declared they would talk differently if they had a taste of her portion. They all claimed, defensively, to have been, at times, very ill. But Evelyn could not believe that any one had ever been quite so sick as she was; and so, as the day wore on, she wore away her nerves and temper. Finally, when her visitors had all departed, when, too, her tears were spent, she settled into a tragic calm, continuing to stare ? now stony-eyed ? at the white walls. In this quietness a few sounds bore in upon her consciousness: sounds of women's voices 
 in subdued conversation. O, yes, of course, there were other sick people, she confessed to herself, but they were not ? that is, they couldn't possibly be, ? as miserable as she was. She experienced an indifferent desire to turn and look at the other occupants of the room, and did at last, like a child won for a moment from a tantrum, give a casual glance over her shoulder. Her attention was at once caught and held by a soft, merry little laugh from the woman next to her who was chatting with a patient further on. With childish curiosity, Evelyn turned slowly over and took a square look at her next neighbor. And when she had taken in all the details of that never-to-be-forgotten picture, her blood fairly staggered in her veins. She beheld a sweet, kindly-faced, little woman strapped, literally strapped, in a perfectly prostrate position, to a board, with her arms confined to the elbows, and a small mirror swung before her to assist her in eating and seeing about. At Evelyn's sociable movement, the small invalid turned her head ever so slightly (which was as far as it could be moved), and the eyes of the two women met. Evelyn's betrayed amazement and horror. "We've been so sorry for you," murmured the woman, sympathetically inviting conversation. "Hope you're feeling better this afternoon." Evelyn's mind went quickly over her actions that morning, and a feeling of shame colored her pretty face pink. "I ? a ? thought ? yes, I'm ? a ? better;" she stammered confusedly, continuing to stare, fascinated, at the chilling sight. "You've been suffering awfully?" went on the stricken lady kindly, questioningly. "Yes ? er ? I? a ? thought I was ? it was appendicitis," faltered the girl almost too abashed, in the presence of this great calamity, to utter the words. "Oh, and those pains are so hard to bear." "Have you had that operation?" asked Evelyn with quick interest. "Some time ago ? yes," said the lady, "but I have not forgotten the pains." "They must not be as bad as ? as bad as ? " Evelyn stopped in embarrassment, her eyes indicating the board and straps. "No," slowly, with a brave little smile, "but they are bad enough," she ended, unwilling to depreciate Evelyn's ills. At that moment the nurse came and asked each patient how she had enjoyed Thanksgiving Day. Evelyn was amazed when she heard her next neighbor cry out gaily, "O it has been a glorious day, I never was so happy in all my life. I've been laughing all day," and she laughed again the THANKSGIVING DAY IN THE HOSPITAL. 485 gleeful laugh that had first won Evelyn from her heavy cross and now caused her to ask impulsively, "What in the world have you been laughing at?" The frail woman turned her head slowly toward Evelyn, her face glowing with a genuine, happy smile. "Why, you see," she explained, "I've only four months more to be strapped to this board ? " Evelyn gasped audibly, but her new acquaintance continued? "I've been on here eight months today. The doctor said if I would permit myself to be strapped to this board one year I would be able to walk. Now, just think, eight months have passed. Only four months more ? then I can walk and go home ? I get so homesick sometimes ? " her eyes grew suddenly misty, then in a moment she was gay again ? "but, oh, four months will soon pass, and then I'll be home. Isn't that something to be thankful for?" She turned smiling eyes toward Evelyn at the question. "I ? a ? suppose," murmured the girl in a shaky voice. When Evelyn's family came again that evening they cried out joyfully, "Why, you're lots better, dear, aren't you?" "Yes, I'm better," she whispered tearfully, "I'm all right, and I'll be home in a week and, oh"; she sobbed, "every Thanksgiving Day, and, indeed, every day of my life, from now on, I'm going to be thankful, oh, so very thankful, that I am not strapped to a board."