Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. Vilhjalmar Stefansson, the explorer, has discovered a new land north of Alaska. As yet, however, there seems to be no rush of emigration thither. The cornerstone of the fifth temple for the Latter-day Saints, since the settlement of Utah, was laid on September 19. This one is at Raymond, Canada, but yet in the land of Zion, and significant of the growth of the gospel cause. Joseph S. Glass has been selected by the Roman Catholic church as its bishop in Utah. Should he prove to be as fair, as tolerant, and as courteous as his predecessor, Bishop Laurence Scanlan, he will establish for himself an enviable record. The conditions in Mexico seem to be getting no better fast. No sooner does a ray of hope appear athwart the war-sky there than a storm of increased intensity sweeps over the horizon, reaching even to the American side of the Rio Grande. Half a billion dollars is the loan which the English and French governments have secured in America. This will be soon spent for American goods, and the European nations will be years paying heavy bills to American producers, with a substantial rate of interest, while still other loans are looming up. The University of Utah has practically the same enrollment as last year, notwithstanding predictions to the contrary by those who sought to set aside, in effect at least, the law which requires the board of regents to control University affairs. In a recent convention of Baptists held in Salt Lake City, one of the chief speakers advocated tithing as a means of raising church funds. He showed clearly that it was the Lord's method with His people, notwithstanding the fact that sectarian organizations disregard it. The effort of certain national government officials to have the national government assume control over all the water power sites within the States received sharp criticism from Utah and other western States represented at the recent Conservation Congress. Those western representatives seemed possessed of the idea that CURRENT TOPICS. 503 the people of the various states have some rights which command respect. The Brooklyn (New York) Eagle sent a representative to Utah to learn how equal suffrage for men and women worked in this state. From his expressions to prominent men, made when there were no women present to influence him by thought of gallantry or chivalry, he was convinced that it worked very well indeed. A leading New York authority in the fashion world, during a recent trip through the West, says she has ascertained that the women in the Pacific Coast and Intermountain West region pay double as much as do New York women to be equally well dressed; and she lays it to the lack of careful buying. This should open the eyes of Western women to the urgent need of retrenchment, if only for the sake of those who must earn the money with which to pay bills. On September 27, a carload of gasoline in the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe depot yard at Ardmore, Oklahoma, exploded, demolishing the station and killing every person therein, besides wrecking a great portion of the town, setting on fire blocks of business buildings, killing about fifty people and injuring about four times that many others. This was a terrible illustration of the great danger which attends leaving, in the populated part of a town, carloads of high explosives, which is frequently done. The recall of Dr. Constantin T. Dumba, Austrian ambassador to the United States, upon request from Washington, because of his interference in American industrial affairs, is a warning to the nations that there is a point beyond which American patience will not be stretched. Foreign representatives accredited to this government have the business of their own countries to attend to, and that is sufficient to keep any of them legitimately busy. Count Franz von Papen, military attache at Washington, referred to certain newspapermen in New York as "idiotic Yankees." Whatever he thought, or however appropriate may have been his description, it is enough that his official position made the remark so inappropriate that his presence at the national capital as a representative of the German government has been deemed inadvisable, hence his departure. Thus some European diplomats in America may learn that "a wise head keeps a still tongue," even in democratic countries.