Then the work is distributed among the members, which has previously been prepared by a committee during the week. This is done quietly, without any confusion or talking. When the sewing is started, we have a gospel talk by one of the elders, a local member, or one of the sisters. Then we have a song, a story, a musical number, and the closing exercises. In this way we are leading the. sisters out of the rut of gossiping while they sew. They seem to be very much enthused with their work. A number of them have expressed themselves in this way: The Saints in Utah have provided the money for the poor, and the Saints in this country are performing the work. So they feel that there is a connecting link between them. They are so anxious to feel that they are a part of that great organization in Zion, and that the noble sisters who constitute the general board are interested in the work they are trying to accomplish. We are making a specialty of visiting the poor, the sick, and the sorrowful. I hope to be able to visit all the conferences in August or September. It looks as if the war might continue a year or more. Foodstuff has been on the rise. The weather has been beautiful for the past two weeks. The crops, however, are suffering for want of rain. It is claimed the potato crop is practically ruined. The people of this country can ill afford to have ruined crops this 3^ear." PROGRAM OF SEMI-ANNUAL MEETING OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. October 1st and 2nd, 1915. Friday Morning, Oct. 1st, 10:00 a.m. Organ Prelude Organist Edna Coray a. Pastorale in F (J. S. Bach) b. Adagio Op. 113 (Spohr) Hymn, "Come, Come, Ye Saints" Congregation Prayer Address "Soldiers Music, of the Captain" (Parks) of Welcome. . .Relief President Society Emmeline Choir B. Wells Response Mary H. Stringham, President Uintah Stake Soprano Solo, "Gates of Paradise" (King) Reports of Stakes. . . ". Stake Presidents Summary of Relief Society Activities General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman Organ Solo. Fantasia in C (Tours) Edna Coray Report of Genealogical Excursion to California Elizabeth C. McCune Instrumental Music Schettler Trio NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 507 Address Counselor Julina L. Smith Music, "Savior with Thee" Benediction (Molloy ) Choir Postlude, "Sing unto God" Arr. by Best (Handel) . .Edna Coray Friday Afternoon, October 1st, 2:00 p.m. Organ Prelude, Andante 4th Symphony (Mendelssohn)... Edna Coray Music, "Softly Now the Light of Day" (Von Weber) Choir Address Counselor Clarissa S. Williams Instrumental Music. .Profs. Willard Weihe and John J. McClellan Address Martha H. Tingey, Pres. Y. L. M. I. A. Contralto Solo, "My Heart at Thy Sweet Voice" (C. Saint Saens) Evangeline Thomas Address Pres. Louie B. Felt, Pres. Primary Association Music, "Band of Little Faces" (Parke) Choir Remarks Members of General Board Music, "The Lost Chord" (Arthur Sullivan) Chorus Little Girls Closing Remarks President Emmeline B. Wells Music, "Sanctus" (Dudley Buck) Choir Postlude, "March Solemelle" (Schubert) Edna Coray OFFICERS' MEETINGS. Saturday Morning, October 2nd, 10:00 a.m. Reports: Magazine Counselor Clarissa S. Williams Membership Ruling Relief Society Books. .General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman Duet, "Music of the Pines" (Chamberlain) Pearl White and Violet Felkins Reports: Lesson Work Theology Art Alice Merrill Home Home Economics Janette A. Hyde Nurse School Phebe Y. Beatie Relief Society History Susa Young Gates Discussion Remarks Counselor Julina L. Smith Remarks President Emmeline B. Wells Saturday Afternoon. October 2nd, 2 p.m. Testimony Meeting Note. All stake and ward officers and class supervisors are invited to be in attendance at the officers' meetings. 
 SPECIAL MEETINGS. GENEALOGY. The Genealogical Department will hold special meetings in the Auditorium follows: on the fourth floor of the Bishop's Building, as Friday afternoon, October 1st, at 4:30 p. m. ? Subject: Stake Reports and Discussion. Saturday, October 2nd, at 4:30 p. m. ? Subject: Individual Record. Tuesday, October 5th, at 4:30 p. m. ? Subject: Living Family Groups. Wednesday, October 6th, at 4:30 p. m. ? Subject: The Coming Season's Work. ART. Lender the auspices of the Relief Society Art Department, a day has been arranged for at the University of Utah, Tuesday, October 5th. At 11a. m. the visitors will meet in the Girls' Rest Room, in the Administration Building, when Dr. Joseph F. Merrill will give information on the grounds and buildings. At 1 1:30 a lecture will be given in the Archaeological Department on the collection taken from the Cliff Dwellers, by Prof. Levi Edgar Young. At 12:00 o'clock the visitors will be conducted through the Art Gallery by Chairman Alice Merrill Home. This Art Gallery contains many beautiful pictures, among them the "Alice Art Collection." At 12:30 p. m. a lecture will be given in the Museum Building by Professor George Montayne Marshall; subject, English Architecture, the lecture to be illustrated with colored slides. At 1:15 p. m. the guests may be accommodated in the University Cafeteria at a 15-cent lunch, served under the direction of Dean Lucy M. VanCott. On Monday at 4:15 p. m., a lecture will be given in the Reception Room of the Relief Society Headquarters by Mrs. Alice Merrill Home; subject, .Art and Architecture of the California Exposition.