In the Kitchen Laboratory. By Hazel Love Dunford. HONEY. ? It has not been long since honey was the principal sweet used in the American home; but with the advent of the sugar factory, it is fast loosing its place on our tables. This is a mistake, for honey is one of nature's best foods. Unlike cane sugar^ it is very easily assimilated. Many persons who find it impossible to eat sugar find that honey gives them no distress whatsoever. It is especially good for children, and where they are allowed a liberal supply, it will largely do away with the inordinate longing for candy and other sweets. Ask the average child whether he will have honey alone on his bread, or butter alone, and almost invariably, he will answer, "honey." Yet seldom are the needs or the taste of the child properly consulted. The old man craves fat meat, the child loathes it; he wants sweet, not fat; and now that the cold weather is coming, he will want it more than ever. Why not give it to him in the very best form? In many cases, it may be a matter of real economy to lessen the butter bill by letting honey take its place, at least in part. The eating of butter and honey together is not a good habit for children to form. If honey is bought in large quantities, it can be used in a great many ways. CARE OF HONEY. The average housekeeper puts honey in the cellar for safe keeping ? about the worst place possible, for it readily takes up moisture; and in the cellar, or a damp place, extracted honey will often become thin, and even sour, in time. The best is a dry, warm place. A temperature of 100 degrees will not hurt it. If it is kept for any length of time ? especially during cold weather ? it has a tendency to granulate, or candy. But this condition is not to be taken as an evidence against its genuineness or purity, but rather on the contrary, for adulterated honeys are less liable to candy than those that are pure. Many prefer honey in the candied state, the majority prefer liquid. It is a very easy matter to restore it from its former liquid condition ? simply keep it in hot water long enough. It should not be heated above 160 degrees, as there is danger of spoiling the delicate flavor. A good way is to set it in another vessel containing the water, not allowing the bottom of the one to rest on the bottom of the other. 
 . Place a shingle, or something of the kind, between; let it stand on the stove but do not let it boil. RECIPES. Honey Tea Cakes. 1 cup honey 1/2 cup flour 1/2 cup sour cream thin 1/2 teaspoon soda (scant) 2 eggs 1 teaspoon cream tartar 1/2 cup butter Cream butter, add honey, eggs, cream and flour, soda and cream of tartar. Bake thirty minutes. Honey Gems. Honey Jumbles. 2 quarts flour 2 quarts flour 3 tb. melted lard 3tb. melted lard 1/2 pt. honey 1 pt. honey 1/2 pint molasses 3/4 pt. molasses 4 heaping teaspoonful brown sugar 1 1/2 level tablespoonful soda 1 1/2 level tb. soda 1 level teaspoonful salt 1 level teaspoonful salt 1/2 pt. water 1-3 pt. water 1/2 t. vanilla 1/2 t. vanilla extract OLD-FASHIONED THANKSGIVING MENU. Lily's Roast Turkey. If a tough bird, steam for a couple or more hours. Fifteen minutes to the pound should be allowed for roasting, unless the bird is very young or has been steamed. Cook in double pan; if possible. Allow 1/2 lb. of butter to baste with, unless you use bacon, which is objectionable to some people. Oyster Dressing. 2 dozen raw oysters or 1 quart can, chopped. Use the liquor to wet the dressing. 3 eggs, well beaten. The crumbs of 3 loaves of baker's bread or 2 loaves of home-made. 1/2 lb. of butter. 1 ts. of salt. Fill craw and inside of turkey. Then make balls and put about the wings and legs, as it keeps the meat from drying. Lily's Creamed Potatoes. Few people make good mashed potatoes. Cook soft, and mash thoroughly. To 6 large potatoes, add 2 tablespoons of butter and 1 cup of thin cream. If you have no cream use more butter. Skim milk mashed potatoes are worse than none. After the cream and butter are stirred in, take a toasting fork and whip the potatoes till they are like snow. Serve with butter in small hole on the top of the pyramid ? as mother used to do. Grandma Gates' Plum Pudding. 1 lb. of chopped suet. 15 cts. of chopped citron. 1 lb. of chopped raisins. 4 beaten eggs. 1 cup of chopped walnuts. 2 cups flour rubbed in the fruit. 10 cts. of chopped lemon peel. 2 teaspoonfuls of yeast powder. 1 1/2 pint of bread crumbs. 2 pints sweet milk. 1 lb. of cleaned currants. 1 teaspoon each of cinnamon, nutmeg, and cloves. Boil in tin buckets set in water. Keep boiling hard for 6 or 10 hours. Serve with ice cream. Jennie's Pie Crust. 1 tb. flour. 1 tb. butter. 1 1/2 ts. salt. Mix flour with water enough to make a soft dough; place butter in corner of clean cloth, work all the water and moisture out, and form into a pat. Roll out the dough about an inch thick, place the butter in the center, and fold over three times; then roll out again. Let stand for five minutes between each process. Repeat the process six or seven times. Always roll the crust from you, handling as lightly as possible. Use but little extra flour in the process of rolling it out. Pumpkin Pie. 2 eggs well beaten. 1/2 cup sugar. 1/2 cup steamed pumpkin or squash. 1 pt. rich milk ? little cream adds much to richness and flavor. 1 pinch salt. Stir all well together, flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon, and bake in under crust. Pineapple Pie. 1 can grated pineapple, well drained. 1 cup sweet cream. 1/2 cup sugar. 5 eggs. 1/2 cup butter. Beat butter and sugar to cream; add beaten yolks of eggs, then add pineapple and cream, and lastly the beaten whites ? whip in lightly. Bake with under crust only.