[Vol8 | September 1921 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: World Happenings James H. Anderson]

World Happenings James H, Anderson (Covering the Month of July, 1921) In Italy, factions continued warring with each other, and many persons were killed. U. S. Government bonus for ablebodied ex-soldiers was postponed until 1922, e Mexico had a big railway strike and a big oil fire that did millions in damage. President Harding refuses to play golf on Sundays, being consistent in that respect with his religious professions. The United States public debt, on May 31, was $23,710,405,- 910. This means a quarter of a century of burdensome taxation. All Europe is suffering from a great drouth this year, and _ the reports foreshadow much destitution the coming winter. The Versailles treaty with Germany may be adopted by the United States with all League of Nations items stricken out. The wheat shortage in the world in 1921 was estimated by government statisticians to be over four million acres. An. Arab government was established in Mesopotamia, by the British government, much to the displeasure of France. LeGrand Young, one of Utah's prominent and active pioneers, and nephew of President Brigham Young, died in Salt Lake City, on July 23. A disarmament conference by the world's leading nations will be held in Washington, D. C., on November 11, at the invitation of the President of the United States. The railway brotherhoods in the United States have postponed consideration of a general strike until September 1, the season for moving the nation's crops. 35 tt WORLD HAPPENINGS The Ku Klux Klan, recently revived in the southern United States, committed several "tar and feathers" outrages in Texas, arousing public sentiment to a vigorous protest. Gov. A. L. Small, of Illinois, was indicated on charges of fraud. Whether or not it is spitework against the governor will be determined at the trial. Japan's population, approached to near eighty millions, No wonder the "flowery kingdom" wishes to extend its territorial area into eastern Asia and into western America. A huge gun that will hurl a 5-ton projectile 200 to 300 miles has been invented by a New York man. Yet the world is working for 'peace. Spain dealt with an uprising in Morocco, and had heavy losses of troops. Other nations having control in Africa are watching uneasily, lest they have a general uprising of the black race there. Irish troubles continued, although strenuous efforts were made for a peaceful settlement—a result not in immediate prospect at the end of the month. Blindness, when caused by atrophy, or drying of the optic nerve, is claimed to be curable by the use of a new serum, according to an announcement made by Dr. E. A. Pond. Eminent European statesmen took the view that there could be no peace in Europe until Russia comes under a stable form of government, which probably will be a monarchy. In Russia, famine conditions are terrible beyond description, and twenty-five million people are perishing for lack of food. This news came direct from Russian official sources. Greece was victorious over the Turkish nationalist armies, and established the Greek army east of Constantinople. It looks as if Greece would obtain control in that city. _ Great Britain and France were loggerheads over the Silesian dispute between Poland and Germany. Great Britain feels that France is displaying an inexcusable and arbitrary selfishness. 
 A monument marking the point above Salt Lake City where President Brigham Young designated the Salt Lake Valley as the place for the Latter-day Saints to assemble after being driven from Illinois, was dedicated on July 25. A jury in New York convicted a groceryman of assault for kissing a maid against her will, in a house at which he called. Then the foolish judge turned the offender loose without punishment. The Salvation Army chief in New York announced that the United States was facing the most critical period it had known for fifteen years, in the way of food shortage and unemployment. Camille Flammarion, the noted French astronomer, and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, author and spiritualist, are in agreement on the proposition that the spirit of man has substance, which they call psychoplasm or ectoplasm. Czecho-Slovakia, Jugo-Slavia, and Rumania, entered into a compact to make war on Hungary if the latter established a monarchy. Those southeastern European nations all are "spoiling for a fight," notwithstanding prevalent peace talk. The W. C. T. U. Of Tacoma, Washington, adopted an antigossip resolution in which a pledge was made not to repeat any ill story about a girl, and an agreement adopted to aid any woman, who had made a mistake, to regain respectability. It is intended to make this line a national movement. Lord Northcliffe, prominent English publisher, visited New York. And reported that he looked for prohibition there, but did not discover it. Lord Northcliffe is that sort of "rule or ruin" personage who assails everybody and everything that fails to conform to his individual notions. In England he is yclept the "uncrowned king," Note: No letters to the Editor or Business Manager should be enclosed in packages or 2nd class mail. P. O. Clerks open such packages, and if letters or messages are found, this office must pay Ist class postage on the package.