[Vol8 | September 1921 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for November]
Guide  Lessons  for  November 
LESSSON  I 
Theology  and  Testimony 
(First  Week  in  November) 
TITHING  ' 
Tithing  is  a  system  of  producing-  revenue  which  may  be 
secular  or  ecclesiastical.  The  word  implies  a  tenth^  or  a  tithe, 
and  consists,  .as  a  rule,  of  a  Jgift  or  donation  of  lone-tenth  of  a  per- 
son's property  or  that  which  he  produces.  All  the  ancient  peo- 
ple, both  Pagan  and  Hebrew  has  some  fjorm  lof  religious  tax 
which  was  levied  by  a  ruler  upon  his  subjects.  Among  the 
Pagans  a  tenth  of  the  spoils  of  war  was  dedicated  to  the  gods. 
Babylonia,  Assyria,  Egypt,  China,  Greece  and  Rome,  each 
had  a  system  of  taxation  levying  one-tenth  from  their  subjects. 
In  the  Mohammedan  law  it  is  sometimes  mentioned  as  a  twen- 
tieth or  a  fortieth.  All  the  Hebrew  kings  required  a  tithe  of  the 
grainfield,  vineyards  and  flocks.     (See  I  Samuel,  8:15-19.) 
In  the  Book  of  Deuteronomy,  the  Hebrew  people  were 
taught  in  detail  how  the  tithes  should  be  collected  and  consumed 
and  the  quantity.  Abraham  paid  tithes  to  Melchizedek,  the  king 
and  high-priest  of  Salem  which  city  was  later  called  Jerusalem. 
Jacob  (Genesis  28:22)  vows  of  his  own  free  will  to  pay  a  tithe 
just  as  the  Arabs  used  to  vow  and  deliver  the  tithe  of  the  in- 
crease of  their  flocks.  We  are  told  in  Deuteronomy  ( 14 :28  and 
in  24:12)  how  the  tithes  of  the  Hebrew  people  were  to  be  stored 
and  how  to  be  spent  in  caring  for  the  poor. 
The  tribe  of  Levi  was  selected  to  lead  the  Levitical  priest- 
hood. Aaron  was  at  the  head  of  that  priesthood  and  was  known 
as  a  high  priest.  In  the  division  of  the  Land  of  Promise  no  pro- 
vision was  made  for  a  location  for  the  tribe  of  Levi,  but  some 
few  cities  were  set  apart  for  them.  They  were  allotted  a  living 
out  of  ithe  tithes  of  the  people.  It  may  be  thought  that  the 
priests  were  fortunate,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that  no 
priest  was  permitted  to  own  his  own  home.  He  was  to  devote 
his  life  in  the  service  of  the  Lord  in  his  turn,  in  the  temple  or 
tabernacle. 
In  the  days  of  Ezra  and  Nehemiah  great  stress  was  laid

GUIDE  LESSONS  543 
upon  the  provision  for  the  support  of  the  priests  and  Levites. 
There  were  two  tithes  paid  by  each  Jewish  citizen.  The  follow- 
ing is  from  the  Bible  Dictionary : 
The  first  consisted  of  one-tenth  of  the  produce  of  his  fields,  trees, 
flocks  and  herds,  to  be  given  to  God  as  the  sovereign  Proprietor  of  all 
things  and  as  the  King  of  the  Jews.  (Lev.  27:30-31;  I  Sam.  8:15-17) 
The  proceeds  of  this  tax  were  devoted  to  the  maintenance  of  the  Levites 
in  their  respective  cities.  (Num.  18:21-24.)  A  person  might  pay  this  tax 
in  money,  adding  one-fifth  to  its  estimated  value.  The  Levites  paid  a 
tenth  part  of  what  they  received  to  the  priests,  (Num.  18:26-28.)  The 
second  tithe  required  of  each  land-holder  was  one-tenth  of  the  nine  parts 
of  his  produce  remaining  after  the  1st  tithe,  to  be  expended  at  the  taber- 
nacle or  temple  in  entertaining  the  Levites,  his  own  family,  etc.,  changing 
it  first  into  money,  if  on  account  of  remoteness  he  chose  to  do  so.  (*Deut. 
12:17-19;  22-29;  22-27.  Every  third  year  a  special  provision  was  made 
for  the  poor  either  out  of  this  second  tithe  or  in  addition  to  it,  Deut. 
14:28-29;  26:12-15.  These  tithes  were  not  burdensome;  but  the  pious 
Israelite 'found  himself  the  richer  for  their  payment,  though  it  does  not 
seem  to  have  been  enforced  by  any  legal  penalties.  See  the  promise  to 
the  obedient  in  Deut.  28:1-13.  The  system  of  tithes  was  renewed  both 
before  and  after  the  captivity,  2nd  Chr.  31 :5,  6,  12;  Neh.  10:37,  38;  12:44; 
13-5  12;  but  they  were  not  always  regularly  paid,  and  hence  the  divme 
blessing  was  withheld,  Mai.  3:8-12.  At  a  later  period  the  tithe  was  ap- 
parently divided  into  three  portions,  one  of  which  was  given  to  the 
priests  and  Levites  one  to  the  temple  storehouse,  and  one  to  the  needy 
at  Jerusalem.  The  Pharisees  were  scrupulously  exemplary  m  paymg 
their  tithes,  but  neglected  the  more  ipiportant  duties  of  love  to  God  and 
man.  Matt.  23:23.  .   . 
The  principle  of  the  ancient  tithes,  namely,  that  mmisters  of  the 
gospel  and  objects  of  benevolence  should  be  provided  for  by  the  whole 
people  of  God  according  to  their  means,  is  fully  recognized  in  Scripture 
as  applicable  to  the  followers  of  Christ.  He  sent  his  servants  forth  two 
and  two,  without'  provision  or  purse,  to  receive  their  support  froni  the 
people,  since  "the  laborer  is  worthy  of  his  hire."  Matt.  10:9-14;  Luke 
10-4-8-16.  Paul  also  reasons  in  the  same  way,  1st  Cor.  9:13-14;  Gal.  6:0 
For  purposes  of  piety  and  beneficence  he  directed  the  Corinthians,  and 
virtually  all  Christians,  to  lay  aside  from  their  income  on  the  first  day 
of  the  week  as  the  Lord  had  prospered  them,  I  Cor.  16:2.  There  is  no, 
reason  to  doubt  that  the  early  Christians  gave  more  freely  of  their  sub- 
stance than  did  the  ancient  Jews.    Acts  4:34-37;  2nd  Cor.  8:1-4. 
Since  the  days  of  the  early  Christian  churches  tithes  have 
been  paid  and  enjoined  by, ecclesiastical  courts.  In  course  of  tune 
the  principle  of  paying"  tithes  was  extended  ^l^eyond  its  origuial 
scope  by  the  Catholic  church.  Tithes  at  that  time  became  inter- 
changeable to  Ifiymen  and  therefore  were  salable  property.  In  Eng- 
land there  is  a  permanent  and  general  system  of  tithes  to  sup- 
port the  authorized  or  established  Episcopal  church,  and  an  elab- 
orate system  of  laws  have  grown  out  of  this  custom.  This 
English  tithe  is  quite  distinct  from  the  civil  taxes  and  is  used 
for  the  support  of  the  authorized  church.  In  fact  tithing  was 
practiced  by  the  Saxons  and  Normans.     The  old  Anglo  Saxons