[Vol8 | September 1921 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: B. Y. U. Family of Educated and Educators]

A B. Y. U. Family of Educated ~ and Educators Education is a passion, one might say, with Latter-day Saints. It is a part of their religious creed that "no man can be saved in ignorance." As a consequence every Church organization carries on educational extension work and the Church schools are filled to overflowing with eager students. Perhaps one of the most interesting recent examples of this love for education, which exists among us, was demonstrated in the recent graduation of Elijah Allen from the law school of the University of Utah. It is not unusual for students to graduate from the law school; but it is very unusual for a man fortythree years old, with a wife and nine children, to come from Mesa, Arizona, to Salt Lake City, three years alone, leaving his highly capable wife at home to run the farm and the family while he studied law, then the fourth year bringing the wife and nine children and the two autotmobiles up to Salt Lake City, buying a home so as to save rent, putting all the nine children in school to continue their school, which was variously begun at Mesa and Phoenix, his wife taking the law lectures with her 'husband so that she might be companionable with him in his future activities. They had every one of the children in school at the University of Utah and the L. D. S. University, except the baby who was watched over by a kind old lady next door, at so much per. That is unusual, isn't it? But that is exactly what happened to Elijah Allen and his remarkable family. Of course Elijah Allen is himself remarkable, not only for his foresight but thrift, for he had presence of mind enough to sell part of his big cotton farm at the peak of high prices 
 which gave the family plenty of capital for the enterprise. Remarkable also because he has kept his mental powers bright through the exigencies of domestic and pioneer life, by study and itinerant politics and legal activity in the district in which he lived; so that when he decided to secure a Jaw degree with the accompanying classified information adding this to his mental equipment, he lost no time, no energy, and no money in carrying out his plans. All of it was in the nature of a noble investment in community finance and social futures. Even so, Elijah Allen remembered after he was there that he would have been only half what he is, and done only half what he has accomplished, were it not for the more than remarkable wife who has not only made a thorough Latterday Saint wife, mother and companion, to him and the children, but has as well kept her own mental tools sharpened through activity in the various auxiliary organizations for women of the Church, from the time she was a little girl to the present day. Both parents are human dynamos; but both engines are so nicely adjusted that there is little noise and almost no friction' in the generation of force and power. Modesty is perhaps as dominant a characteristic of both these good parents as the simple dignity with which they conduct their family and religious life. Elijah Allen is the son of Charles H. And Adelaide Hoops Allen, and he was born at Cove, Cache county, Utah, on the 22nd, Jan. 1878. He went with his parents to pioneer the Arizona country, settling in Mesa about 1882, where he lived until 1898. In that year he came to the Brigham Young Academy, as it was then called, graduating from the business college in 1901. When in school he met and fell in love with Miss Emma Pearl Nielson, who was the daughter of Eurihoff G. And Emma Meecham Nielson, who was attending the Brigham Young University at the same time. Pearl lived in the family of Jacob F. Gates, and was a second daughter to Susa Young Gates, while she helped, young as she was, to mother the children in the home, Emma Lucy, Brigham Cecil, Harvey H. And Franklin Young Gates. She was with the family when they lost two of their beautiful children, Beulah and a year later, Brigham. Elijah Allen and Pearl were married, 9th Oct., 1901, in the Salt Lake temple, soon after the graduation of both from the academy. On returning to Mesa, Elijah worked in a grocery store and later took up farming, always in more extensive ways, keeping an active hold upon public life through his devotion to his religious work. He has held all the degrees of the Priesthood, was Sunday School teacher, ward teacher, superintendent of Y. M. M. 1. A., religion class, and was finally counselor A. B. Y. U. FAMILY OF EDUCATORS 515 of Pres. James Lesueur of Maricopa stake. He acted as a counselor in the Indian mission and gave his trained business mind to the problems of that unique Lamanite activity and settlement near Phoenix and Mesa. He was also interested vitally in all educational matters and was President of the Mesa Union nightschool board. His interest in political matters brought him the offer of many offices most of which he declined, but he has served as justice of the peace and practical political head of things Republican for years. Pearl Allen has likewise held nearly every office in the organizations for women in this Church. She has been teacher and secretary of the Sunday school, secretary and treasurer of the Mesa Relief Society, president of the Papago Indian ward Relief Society, President of the Y. L. M. I. A. And of the Mesa Y. L. M. I. A. Pearl taught one year after leaving the B. Y. U.,-and has been an insatiable reader since her girlhood. She interested herself in the legal questions which came before her husband and was therefore qualified to take the law lectures for what she could obtain from them in the way of legal culture during the past year in the University of Utah. What about the remarkable children of this remarkable couple? The oldest, Pearl Allen, who is eighteen years old, has been taking a college preparatory course in the L. D. S. University; she will major the next year in English at the University of Utah; meanwhile she has taken previous courses in nursing and domestc science and oral expression by way of general culture. Eijah Cecil Allen, age seventeen, is taking the. Scientific course in the University of Utah; and Thora, age fifteen, is taking the college preparatory course, Vilate, age thirteen, is in the seventh grade; Taft, age eleven, is in the sixth grade; Friholf Allen, age nine, is in the fourth grade, while Priscilla, age seven, and Roberta, age five, are in the kindergarten. Baby Gerald remained at home under the care of the motherly woman next door while mother and the family were imbibing culture in the univerSities on the hill and in the city. Last summer Elijah packed his family into his two automobiles with camping outfit and they came to Salt Lake taking a month in which to ride at leisure through the three great national parks between Mesa and Salt Lake City; the Grand canyon, the Petrified Forest of Arizona, and Mesa Verde Park of Colorado. Be sure, even the kindergartners were fully instructed by both parents concerning the origin and history of all these great natural scenic assets. Be sure also that the simple courtesy and natural good breeding of the family made them de- 
 lightful companions to fellow tourists who wondered at the discreet behavior of so numerous a family, At the close of the graduation exercises, Elder Allen doffed his cap and gown, sold his Salt Lake City home at a profit, while his wife packed children and camping outfit into the two automobiles, leaving the oldest daughter to rest with her friends in the city through the summer, and away they sped a distance of 1113 miles to their home in Mesa, Arizona. The strangest thing of it all is that neither the parents nor the children have any hankering to remain under the white lights of Salt Lake City's Main Street. Mesa and the farm with its orange groves and cotton balls, harboring an occasional ostrich for the girl's plumage, offers more attraction than Salt Lake's jazz or even the Saltair Beach.; They are a remarkable family and in nothing more remarkable than in the ability to measure their own limitations, and their great possibilities by way of careful life values; so they return to build themselves more beautiful characters, more useful lives, and more shining hopes in the home city of their choosing. Because of the light shed from the spirit within, these wise adventurers upon educational seas will radiate glory and peace into that circle of the folk they have known and loved these many years. The folks, who know them will enjoy their return through their own increased powers of usefulness while happiness and righteousness shall them adorn. Education with such people is indeed the fruitage of a glorious flowering, planted by Brigham Young, A. O. Smoot, and Karl G. Maeser into the hearts and souls of the youth of the Latter-day Saints. OLD PILGRIM DAYS By Lillian Hoag Monk, Litt. B. A tercentenary volume of historical essays is offered to public and private libraries and historical and ancestral societies interested in Pilgrim history. Special attention is given to Elder. Brewster, "the soul of Plymouth Colony." The Spirit of Ne England was born in the great manor-house at Scrooby. "Old Pilgrim Days" is published under the auspices of the Society, Sons of the Revolution, Los Angeles. Privately printed in a limited edition, postpaid, $1.75. Address Mrs, Lillian Hoag Monk, 1607 South Flower Street, Los Angeles, California. Out of the