[Vol8 | September 1921 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman Canadian Mission Greetings and good wishes come to the Relief Society Presidency, from Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. In this branch a very successful bazaar was held last month in connection with a program of musical numbers and a one-act play. There were one hundred present to listen to the program and to participate in the social which followed. In the bazaar were to be found beautifully embroidered articles with other fancy work and a quantity of plain sewing, all of which found ready sale. A notable feature was the delicious and tempting array of home cooked delicacies which were soon disposed of. Besides being a success from a religious and social standpoint, the entertainment netted the association $90. The President, Mrs. Nellie Roberts, with her counselors and co-workers, was assisted by the energetic young women and men of the branch. Northern States Mission Magazine readers will be pleased to learn of the opening again of the Universiiy Branch in Chicago. During the war this society did a great deal of Red Cross work as well as other welfare work, but has been closed along with the branch itself for about three years. The new officersare: Mrs. Bertha Whitlock, president; Alice M. Berry, first counselor; Sarah E. K. Brainard, second counselor; ard Susabelle Allerton, teacher. From the Logan Square Bulletin, a little paper published in the Logan Square Branch, we learn of some of the activities among our workers there. On Relief Society anniversary day a dinner was given by the Relief Society when one huiilred were served. A troop of Boy Scouts is being organized to be known as Troop No. 10, with B. Harris Lloyd as scoutmaster, und Francis A. Cox as assistant scoutmaster. Fourteen fine husky boys will make up the troop. A Relief Society was lately orgau'ved at Galesburg, Illinois. It is the first society to be organized in this city, and the members are delighted with the opportunities 1 will give them. Mrs. Mary Stephens and Mrs. Bertha Mae "hb rgood have just visited the Relief Society conference in Der: °:, Michigan, and report splendid cooperation there. 
 Western States Mission The Relief Societies of the Western States mission are working hard along all lines embraced in the organization. In the fourteen branches which are growing and flourishing the anniversary of the organization was commemorated, in one way or another. In the new church which has recently been purchased in the Omaha branch the Relief Society has furnished a delightful room in which to meet. This organization is now giving a series of entertainments, the proceeds of which are to be used in the purchase of a new piano. The Pueblo Society, early in the year, held a splendid entertainment and bazaar. The program consisted of speaking, music, and a short drama. In the Sunday evening meeting, recently, the Relief Society of the Denver branch had charge of the services and furnished an interesting and instructive program. The recent visit of the president, Mrs. John M. Knight, to the various branches, has given great encouragement to the members there. Central States Mission Mrs. Frances W. Kimball, until recently president of the Wichita, Kansas, Relief Society, called at Relief Society Headquarters a few days ago, and gave a very interesting account of Relief Society work in the Central States mission, which is being successfully carried on under Mrs, Charlotte T. Bennion. Mrs. Kimball accompanied her husband to the Central States where for nearly two years she has devoted herself to Relief Society work. She has greatly enjoyed her labors as a missionary and feels that her experiences are invaluable. Mrs. Kimball's home is in Thatcher, Arizona, where for a number of years she served as counselor to Mrs. Elizabeth Layton, president of the Relief Society of the St. Joseph stake. Previous to this, for fifteen years, she was a member of the stake board. California Mission Just prior to her resignation as president of the California Relief Societies, Mrs, Louisa W. Jones held social welfare group conventions throughout the mission, with a view o creating interest in practical human welfare problems. At the Los Angeles convention, which covered a period of four days and was probably the largest held, there was an average attendance of 44, Each of the branches of the Los Angeles conference was represented by two special delegates. Luncheon was served each day at the church to all those in attendance. Among the speakers were L, D. S. Church leaders, Relief Society officers, and social workers from Los Angeles. Three sessions were held daily, including a reception to the delegates, which was held at the home of Mrs, C. B. NOTES FROM THE FIELD © 527 Stewart. One forenoon was devoted to visiting charitable institutions, schools, orphanages, hospitals, etc., the delegates being divided into groups in order to cover the plan.: The reception at the Stewart home was most delightful. The house was decorated with beautiful California flowers, the program was most entertaining and the refreshments delicious. Mrs. Stewart was assisted in entertaining by the California mission Relief Society Board. In addition to the delightful musical numbers given by the talented musicians of the Los Angeles conference, the following. Program was given at the convention: Introductory Remarks, Mrs. L. W. Jones; Normal Family Life, Mrs. M. K, Miller; Essentials of Family Welfare, E. B. Whitehead; Address, Norman Martin, Director of Charities, Los Angeles county; Address, Mrs. Barton, of Los Angeles Police Department; The Nature and Purpose of Methods in Family Service, Mrs. Hattie Jensen; Recreational Needs (adults), D. B. DeGroot; The work of the Juvenile Protective Association, E. K. Foster; Conservation of Child and the Home, Dr. Maud Wilde of the Mothers' Educational Center; Discussion of Local Problems, President Joseph W. McMurrin; Responsibilities and Qualifications of the Public Service Worker—Need for Cooperation, Dr. John T. Miller; Mutual Improvement Association Meeting, The Neighbors, and the Slave of the Camel, (two one-act dramas) and Historical Pageant. Teton Stake Ward conferences have been planned and are being held - during the summer months in all of the wards in the stake. The stake officers are delighted with the enthusiasm and re newed activity which prevail in the ward organizations. Franklin Stake The Franklin Stake Relief Society Board conceived the idea of an educational social, and as a consequence a very rare entertainment was held in the Preston Opera House. Colonial and modern ideas were carried out in costumes, dances and songs. With one execption every ward in the stake furnished numbers. A few old-time dances were prepared, representing our grandmothers' time; and the grace and beauty with which these dances were executed brought favorable comment from both old and young. The lunch arrangement was unique; doughnuts, buttermilk, molasses candy, and popcorn, graced the colonial table, while ice-cream, sherbet and fancy cakes were the attractions on the modern tables. Five hundred people participated in this novel entertainment. Though the price was placed unusually 
 low, a neat profit was realized and all agreed that the evening was educationally, financially, and socialy successful. Logan Stake The Logan Stake Board has been given the use of a room in the stake house. They have also been given the privilege of holding their officers' meetings in the assembly room. In the Stake Board room a library has been started, and on the shelves are already to be found all the bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine. Among the interesting entertainments which have been held in the various wards of this stake was a pageant put on by the Eleventh Ward Relief Society, interpreting song, "Come, come ye Saints." The decorations, costumes, and stage setting, old-timers said, were absolutely true to early life on the plains. Camp fire scenes, the scenes of the old gentleman dying, the report of the loss of a child, and the skulking of Indians brought tears to the eyes of many of the old pioneers, who crossed the plains in those perilous times. The hymn, "Come, come ye Saints," was sung by the group. Two daughters of William Clayton were among those taking part on the program. The entertainment was so interesting that at the request of the Bishop it was repeated for the ward members. Rigby Stake At a Relief Society conference held in Rigby stake, on June 3, there were in attendance 298. 19 stake officers, 92 local officers, 111 teachers, 10 visiting stake officers, besides members and visitors, and 29 babies. The visiting stake officer represented the following stakes: Yellowstone, Fremont, Bingham, Shelley, and Blackfoot. A program composed of musical selections, together with the following subjects, was given: Life and Literary Works of Emmeline B.