[Vol13 | January 1926 | Sequence: 16a | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]

Notes from the Field
By Amy Brown Lyman

PRIESTHOOD CONVENTIONS
To be held in connection with quarterly conferences during the months of January, February and March, 1926.

Beginning in January, 1926, Priesthood Conventions will be held throughout the Church. In connection with them, the women of the auxiliary organizations—Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, Primary Association, and women supervisors and principals of the Religion Classes—have been invited also to hold special sessions. The stake presidency is to appoint the presiding officer and also a committee representing the organizations concerned, to make assignment of the topics. Following is the program arranged for these meetings:

MORNING SESSION
10:00 a. m.
Meeting of Stake and Ward Executive Officers (only) of Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., Primary Association, and Women Supervisors and Principals of Religion Classes

Opening Exercises to be held conjointly with the Priesthood, Prayer.
I. Co-operation of Women's Auxiliaries in:
1. Supporting the Priesthood (5 minutes).
2. Promoting sympathetic interest among the women of the organization (5 minutes).
3. Supporting organization programs (15 minutes):
A. Relief Society.
B. Y. L. M. I. A.
C. Primary Association.
D. Religion Class.
4. Raising the Standard of Class Work (10 minutes).
A. Selection of class teachers.
a. Looking to the needs of the organization and qualifications of the individuals.
b. Bringing in new workers as class teachers.
B. Supporting the Teacher-training movement.
C. Emphasizing the importance of preparation.
5. Meeting the Problems that Lead to Juvenile Delinquency (15 minutes).
A. By avoiding late hours.
B. By providing suitable recreation.
C. By providing supervised recreation.
D. By providing opportunities for
a. Health.
b. Education.
c. Culture.
d. Spiritual development.
II. Testimony Bearing (30 minutes).
Dismissal.

AFTERNOON SESSION
2:00 p. m.
Meeting for All Women of the Stake

Opening Exercises.
I. Woman's Responsibility in Working for the Following Church Standards (30 Minutes):
Reverence for sacred places and things; observance of family prayers; obedience to law; respect for authority; observance of the Sabbath day; attendance at Sacrament meetings; observance of the Word of Wisdom; observance of Fast day; payment of tithes and offerings; personal purity.
II. The Importance of Co-operation Among the Women of the Church in Maintaining These Standards:
1. In the home (10 minutes).
2. In the church (10 minutes).
3. In the community (10 minutes).
III. The Value of Bible Reading (20 Minutes):
"Search the Scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me." John 5:39. Psalm 19:7-14.
1. What the Bible is:
A. Word of God. (Deut. 31:9-13; 17:18-20; Book of Mormon, 1 Nephi, chapters 3, 4, and also 5: 10-15.)
B. Greatest book of literature extant.
C. Inspiration of writers, poets and preachers.
D. The one book (until the restoration of the gospel) to which all good Christians looked for comfort, for wisdom and for spiritual guidance.
2. The Value of Reading the Bible:
A. Christ and his Apostles quoted from Old Testament.
B. Bible brought about the Reformation.
C. Convinced founders of our Church that the gospel was not upon the earth.
D. Inspired boy Joseph Smith to seek the Lord in prayer (James 1:5).

Pocatello Stake.

Pocatello First Ward Relief Society boasts of an excellent choir which gives very efficient service and adds greatly to the interest of their meetings.

Northern States Mission.
A literary and musical program of unusual interest was given in Detroit, Michigan, Friday, October 23, under the auspices of the Relief Society and the Mutual Improvement Association of the Detroit Branch. Mr. Edgar A. Guest, the poet, whose work is known and appreciated by thousands, read a number of his compositions. He was assisted by Madam Hughes Thomas, who was in charge of an excellent musical program. Those present greatly appreciated the rare privilege of hearing the poems they so much admire given new force and meaning through the personal interpretation of the author himself. The purpose of the entertainment was to add to the building fund of the Detroit branch, and Mr. Guest's hearty response to aid in this cause was most gratifying to all. When Mr. Guest was approached regarding the matter he expressed his admiration and appreciation of President Heber J. Grant, his personal friend, and added that he would be very glad to give of his time and talent in the interest of the proposed new chapel for the Detroit branch.

Nebo Stake.
Mrs. Mary Stevens of Nebo stake has made an enviable record as a visiting Relief Society teacher, having served steadily for forty-three years. Her district was known as the west mountain district, which extended from the railroad south to Lake Shore. For seven years Mrs. Stevens had charge of this district alone. The visits were made with horse and buggy, with Mrs. Stevens driving.

Twin Falls Stake.
The latest Relief Society conference was much appreciated in Twin Falls stake. The work emphasized by the General Board visitor on teachers' work, and work and business meetings, is being taken up throughout the stake. Ward conferences have been held in all the wards, with members of the stake board at all meetings. Twin Falls First ward held a most interesting conference, September 13. A program emphasizing teachers' work, the work and business meeting, and welfare work was carried out. A special feature was the play "Out of Work" which was most successfully presented. To increase the efficiency of the visiting teachers in the stake, a campaign is being started under the direction of the stake board. A pennant is to be given to the ward obtaining the highest percent of work accomplished under the following heads: Attendance at union meeting, attendance at work meeting, number visits made. A nutrition class under the Agricultural Department of the state is being held in all the wards once a month. Here children are weighed and measured and a careful record kept in order to facilitate the follow-up work. A teacher-training class is held in Twin Falls where two members from each ward attend to get instructions which they in turn give a class held in each ward.

Sevier Stake.
The class work in this stake is being carried on very efficiently due to the excellent class leaders. The stake has specialized during the year on 100% monthly teachers' visits. Some of the wards have reached this standard and the others are not far behind. The stake board plans carefully all work in advance and makes the visiting schedule for board members several months ahead. The stake board holds a social annually for all Relief Society workers.

Raft River Stake.
A very successful health conference was held in this stake in August. The state field nurse, in company with the Relief Society stake social service leader, made all preliminary arrangements. Due to the scattered conditions it was thought advisable by the state doctor and the local doctor to hold a one-day conference in two different localities, rather than a two-day conference in one place. One hundred forty-three women and children were examined at the two conferences. The doctors and nurses were assisted with the weighing, measuring and recording by the president of the stake Relief Society, Mrs. Abbie C. Ottley, and the presidents