HOME INFLUENCE.

	Home is the place dear to all; the place
round which sweet associations cluster long
after one has gone forth into the world.
Home is the place where our minds are
formed, our first impressions are received.
There we are either influenced for good or
evil. There we love with true and undy-
ing affection and are loved again. If the
early influence by which we are surrounded
in our home tend to good, to inspire pure
thoughts and cultivate correct principles and
habits, then we incline to be good, pure and
upright. If the surroundings of our home
are evil then the mind of the child becomes
perverted and evil tendencies and inclina-
tions have the ascendancy and the child be-
comes bad. What society can we ever find

[Column 2]
that we love as much as the society of the
dear ones at home? What is there as pleasant
after a hard day's labor as the cheerful, hap-
py home, where the influence of love is
ever felt; and is apparent to all who enter?
Where all the family sit around the fire
each doing his or her part to make the
evening pass pleasantly, when the day's
toll is over. Those who have such a home
do not wish to go and spend their evenings
walking the streets or where they may be
exposed to all sorts of company that would
tend to make young people unsteady and ir-
regular in their habits or impair their worth
of character. Indulging in irregularities
and frequenting all sorts of places leads
from one degree of evil to another and in
most instances with boys leads to drunken-
ness and gambling. For instance take the
young people who spend most of their
evenings at home, you will find them not
only the best but the best improved on all
subjects which are adapted to the young.
How much can be acomplished at home if
we rightly devote our time. How much
knowledge is gained at the home by those
who are really in earnest. How much bet-
ter to pursue some study at home than to
be running around trifling away our time
and accomplishing no good purpose in life.
The influences we feel at home are lasting
ones, as hundreds of intelligent men and
women grown old in knowledge will testify.
Home is the just conducter giving just ideas
to the infant mind. If all is smooth easy
and pleasant at home we take the feeling
out into the world with us. If all is
discord, and peace has fled from the home,
how terrible for the inmates. Home is our
first school there we take our first lessons in
life, there our hearts glow with childish
love and pity, with sympathy and affection
for those who sit by our side, who share
our joys and sorrows, who feel with us the
trials and cares of the present life.
	The influence of home is what gives to
society its vigor and tone, and where the
homes of the people are the brightest hap-
piest places on earth, where charity peace
and good will are the chief characteristics,
there they predominate in societyabove the
others. The strongest influences are home
influences and these properly exercised in-
fluence the whole after life.
[handwritten] Annie W. Camelia	CAMELIA.


