				POOR IN ZION.

	At our recent Annual Conference the Church,
by common consent, remitted one half of the
people's entire indebtedness to the Perpetual
Emigrating Fund Company, and one-half of
the amount due on back tithing account, ag-
gregating about $875,900. This amount to ap-
ply to the cancellation of the obligations of the
worthy poor on their emigration and tithing
accounts; thus freeing them from a burden
which they have been unable to honorably
cast off. To all such, in this regard, we offer a
Jubilee. Tne power of God moving the hearts
of the Saints still further, caused them to ap-
propriate, for the relief of the deserving poor
in Zion, one thousand head of cows and five
thousand head of sheep. In addition to this,
the Relief Societies, with a liberal generosity,
offer to loan to the needy some 34,000 bushels

[Column 2]
of wheat until after harvest, without interest.
With these worthy examples, as the fruits of
the Gospel, before us, we wish to extend to all
our brethren and sisters the privilege of aiding
in this good work of compassion and love. We
respectfully remind those who have the riches
of this world more abundantly bestowed upon
them, that they have a fitting opportunity of
remembering the Lord's poor. If you hold
their notes and they are unable to pay, forgive
the interest and the principal, or so much
thereof as you might desire them to forgive
were their and your circumstances reversed;
thus doing unto others as you would that
others should do unto you. For upon this
hang the law and the prophets. If you have
mortgages upon the homes of your brethren or 
sisters, who are poor, worthy and honest, and
who desire to pay you but cannot, free them in 
whole or in part. Extend to them a jubilee,
if you can consistently. You will have their
faith, prayers and confidence, which may be
worth more than money. We invite Zion's 
Co-operative Mercantile Institution as the
parent; all other co-operative institutions as
the children; our brethren who are engaged in
profitable railroad, banking, mercantile, manu-
facturing, or other remunerative enterprises,
to extend a helping hand. Free the worthy
debt bound brother if you can. Let there be
no rich among us from whose tables fall only
crumbs to feed a wounded Lazarus. Rather let
us each and all do our part honorably, justly,
charitably and well. The Church of Christ
has given us a worthy example, let us follow
it, so that God may forgive our debts as we for-
give our debtors. By so doing, you will, as
Jesus says, "Make unto yourselves friends with
the mammon of unrighteou[-]ness, that when
ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting
habitations."
	That all these matters may be carried prompt-
ly to a successful issue, we advise the Presi-
dencies of the several Stakes and the Bishop's
agents, to proceed at once to visit all the wards
therein, holding meetings in order to arrange
all these matters while making their visits.
By this means they will more readily accom-
plish what is herein required, and have their
minds relieved of the responsibilities relating
thereto. Those needing wheat for seed must
of course have it soon in order that it may be
available for that purpose this season; While
those needing cows and sheep will appreciate
promptness in their delivery.
				JOHN TAYLOR,
		In behalf of the Council of Apostles.


