FRIENDSHIP.

	Friendship is an attachment existing be-
tween persons of congenial minds tastes and
habits. Its origin is in our nature, men and
women naturally seek after social enjoy-
ment. They may be surrounded by all the
luxuries and amusement wealth can give
yet they could not be happy without friends
in whom they could confide and trust.
	We can scarcely open any volume of an-
tiquity without discerning how great a
thing is friendship. For example take
Damon and Pythias, David and Jonathan,
these two cases only show to what a degree
of enthusiasm it was carried. Even the
great Cæsar thought it of enough impor-
tance to make it the subject of one of his
masterly essays. Although we do not see
this carried to such a degree of enthusiasm
in this day yet we presume there are some
instances were they tested that would prove
to be as tender, strong and true. Yet all
those who assume the name of friends
should not be entitled to our confidence for
how many times in history has infidelity in
friendship proved fatal. Poor indeed is he
who has no friend, no one to go to in time
of trouble who does not even in this small
way know the blessing of a true and blessed
friendship.
	When sad and discouraged what can
bring such consolation as a friend one who
loves you and would if weary and sorrowful
lay his heart open at your feet that you
might heal the wound by some kind word,
some good advice which the noble nature
within you might prompt.
	Some may say we do not wish to burden
others with our trials, true we will not tell
those whom it will burden, but those who
are happy to know that by some, sweet,
kind word they can lighten the burden
and brighten the pathway of others.
	Then how happy both may feel though
sad still they know they are not alone,
there is some one who can appreciate their
sorrow and brighten and cheer their
saddest moments. This is the friend we
should strive to have and to be; not one
who because to him the cloud seems light
will say I have no sympathy for one who
is so foolish as to be troubled by so small a
thing. This is not our friend for he does
not know us, he does not understand that
some natures are much more sensitive than
others; and feel more keenly any little of-
fence. Our friend in such a case would say
some kind yet cheerful and pleasant word
to gladden us.					BEATRICE.


