BY HANNAH T. KING.

I dreamt, Oh! I dreamt when a girl in my teens,
That life was a river with beautiful streams.
And that I conld row down it in gilded canoe
With one that I loved, to help paddle it too.

I built many castles, both splendid and high,
I sent up my kite till the clouds, it was nigh.
The ideal, to me, was a beautiful world,
And the banner I lifted in glory unfurled!

Years gathered around me but still the ideal
Floated ever above me to brighten the real!
The banner I'd raised in my beautiful youth,
Bore in letters of prism, the single word Truth.

I still had my day-dreams, they gilded my life,
And shut from my vision the sorrows or strife.
I'd always a Future that beckon'd me on;
And in every desert, an oasis shone.

On which I could bask and take rest from the toil
Of this work a day world, with its ceaseless turmoil,
I strove to keep true to the dream of my youth
And bore up my banner whose motto was Truth.

I look'd back on the past with a comforting pride
All trial and grief I endeavor'd to hide
In the archives of Him who is Father and God,
Supporting the true, while they pass 'neath the rod.

I still had my dreams, but they were not so bright
With regard to this earth and its shimmering light,
I held on to my Ideal because it was true,
Aud constantly held up my banner to view;

And here let me say (as there's some who think
My muse is chimerical, or just on the brink)
Just ponder the matter, and then you will see
The inner works outer to show what we'll be.

To elaborate destiny waiting on all
And speaking prophetic to great and to small,
And the pictures the ideal presents to our view
Are visions of that which awaits me and you!

I still have a future—yes even on earth,
In my ideals there never is sorrow or dearth:
They've come in reality often enough
To teach me to mingle the smooth with the rough.

We're learning to make all the Heaven we need,
Ideality helps us—twill never impede,
'Tis only a type of the future that's given
To brighten the pathway that leads us to Heaven!

Then treasure your day-dreams, but let common sense
Attend your imaginings as a defence—
Educate! Educate, both heart and brain;
And the ideal will never need bridle or rein;

But will open the door, with her glimpses all fair
And shew you sweet visions, all lovely and [-]are;
And this son of the Spirit will never decline
Till in mansions above in meridian 'twill shine.

	S. L. City April i880.


[Column 1]
