PLEASANT SPRINGTIME.

	At this season ot the year in this "happy
valley" everything ought on natural princi-
ples to be gay and smiling, but on the con-
trary the sun is as capricions as any old
bachelor and seldom lets us see his cheery
face. Gloom out doors is an almost sure indi-
cation of gloom in doors,and really one has to
make a little extra exertion to be cheerful
and complacent through all the variations
of this changable moody, sullen weather.
But now that we have bidden farewell to
sweet tearful April and bonny merry May
is here we may hope to get a little bright
sunshine and a few fair flowers, and earth
will begin her preparations with the assist-
ance of the fair maiden Spring under diffi-
culties, to all appearance now, for the royal
visit of June, queen of Summer. Yes in
the language of the poet.

"The me rry May hath pleasant hours,and dreamily they
	glide.
As if they floated, like the leaves, upon a Silver tide;
The trees are full of crimson buds, the woods are full of
	birds.
And the waters flow to music, like a tune with pleasant
	words."

	Spenser says, "And when the shining
sun laugheth once," Then we deem the
spring cometh, but we have scarcely seen
the sun laugh yet. What a longing there
is in the heart for a sight, a smell of the
green leaf and tiny buds. Winter has lain
long upon the hills, loth to take his leave,
and we have felt his frosty breath upon our
brows and I fear he has nipped our hearts a
little as well as our fingers. Now there is a
sort of vernal air, and a faint breath of the
freshness from the fields and groves,and the
feathered songsters of the forest are begin-
ing to warble their charming melodies, and
cheer us with bird music and the brooks are
waking echo upon echo among the trees
and rocks breaking from their prison beds
away in the far off hills, and warbling in
softer strains as they wind along through
the valleys, where the bending willows
drooping, dip their delicate fringes daintily
in the clear stream.
	Sweet Spring, full of pleasant days invit-
ing tender thoughts and calling us out of our
seclusion into the open air to listen to the
voices of nature and catch the inspiration
of the "new born year."
	It is not strange to me that Spring is
compared to youth, it has the same fresh-
ness, elasticity and vigor; and its effect np-
on the spirits, is like the companionship of
the young, whose hearts are pure and full of
rich promises like the tender buds upon the
trees,shrubs and flowers.Sweet dainty apple-
blossoms, fragrant as the breath of infancy,
what cunning hand can paint you in your
true freshness and give you perfume? Alas,
none. Ye are natures own. Gentle violet,
too modest.to lift its beauteous head,whose
pencil shall give it the faint delicate breath
which reminds one of child-life innocent
and pure.
	And the pansies with their bright eyes,
pretty ways and tender sentiments. Yes,
the pansies speak to us; they tell us a thous-
and things we once knew but have forgot-
ten. The language of flowers is to us a
hidden mystery; we feel its sympathy

[Column 2]
with our finer nature, and we yearn to give
it expression. It approaches to the infinite
something incomprehensible. The love of
flowers is always refining; they comfort us;
their silent presence brings us good company
I've sometimes thought that good angels
loved to linger near them and that was
why they soothed us so, in trials and in sor-
row; then they seem to help us more in
their quiet way than human words. Blessed
flowers. But I fear I digress, I was writing
of Spring. The poor cows and sheep will
welcome it with as fervent a greeting as we
do. And it will gladden the hearts of the
herdsman and shepherd. Never was Spring
welcomed more truly than now, for the
burden of the winter months has been heavy
and h ard upon all. "The cattle upon a
thousand hills" have hungered, and been
pinched with cold and destitute of food and
shelter; our hearts ache for the poor dumb-
beasts,and the fresh grass though only very
short and sparse is to them a luxury.
Where the nibbling flocks do stray.
	The farmer scarce dares venture forth
upon his work so uncertain lower the skies.
But we begin to hear the plowman whistle,
and we fancy Spring has come. Welcome!
thrice welcome! genial, balmy, pleasant
springtime.
