	NEWBURG, N. Y., Oct. 20, 1879.

	FRIDAY, April 16, in company with Mrs. S
M. Heywood we had the pleasure of attending
the Relief Society Annual Conference of Davis
Stake of Zion, Mrs. Sarah I. Holmes presiding.
Reports were read from all parts of the county,
which bore positive testimony of the good work
being accomplished. The weather was unfa-
vorable for a large gathering, but there was a
good feeling and spirit in the meeting. In the
afternoon Sister Heywood addressed the con-
gregation in an interesting and earnest man-
ner, after which we spoke to them of our con-
victions and experience, and Bishop Hess elo-
quently testified to the truth of what had been
spoken.
	A PLEASANT SURPRISE.—On Friday evening,
April 16, the family and a few friends of Presi-
dent A. O. Smoet gathered at his residence to
give a surprise greeting to Sister Margaret T.
Smoot—his estimable and venerable wife—in
honor, of her seventy-first birthday. "Ma"
Smoot was, on the occasion, the recipient of
numerous congratulations and sincere good
wishes for a prolonged and happy existence.
	We copy the above notice from the "Territo-
rial Enquirer," and we add our congratulations
to others, and that this amiable lady may see
many happy returns of the day in health, sur-
rounded by loving relatives and friends. "Ma"
Smoot, as she is affectionately styled, is a vete-
ran in Mormonism, and an unflinching practi-
cal advocate of Patriarchal Marriage.

	THE Primary Association of the 13th Ward
celebrated its first anniversary on Friday, April
23, Mrs. Relief Atwood presiding. There were
quite a number of visitors present and the ex-
ercises were very interesting. The music, sing-
ing and reciting all showed thoughtful care
and training. The whole of the Word of Wis-
dom was recited correctly by a very small boy.
After the programme for the children was fin-
ished, the children were addressed by Elder
George Goddard in his happy manner, and he
sang for them "Children may come to Jesus,"
all of them joining in the chorus. Sisters E.
B. Wells, Rachel R. Grant and E. H. Goddard
each spoke a few words of encouragement to
them, exhorting them to continue in their
spiritual improvement. Oranges and candy
were distributed to all, also cards of merit.
These associations are gathering in the little
ones, and teaching them to walk in the path
that leads to happiness and peace. And we
feel to say, God bless those engaged in this no
ble work.

	ON Thursday, April 15, we had the pleasure
of attending the first Anniversary of the Pri-
mary Association of the 12th Ward, Mrs. Ellen
S. Clawson, presiding. There were quite a
number of visitors present. The exercises
were interesting and well conducted. Several
pieces were sung in a pleasing style, and good
order was observed thoughout. After the
children had gone through the programme,

[Column 2]
Sister E. R. Snow and Elder Robert Campbell,
each made a few remarks, and then the meet-
ing closed with prayer by one of the little boys
a son of Dr. Seymour B. Young. Mrs. Claw-
son then distributed among the children suita-
ble prizes of books and cards of merit. The
closing act was the presentation of the picture of
a cross, neatly framed, from the children to their
President, Mrs. Clawson. Miss Hardy pre-
sented it with a pretty little speech made in
the happiest manner possible. Mrs. Clawson,
although taken by surprise, replied eloquently.

	THE officers and members of the Primary
Association of the 20th Ward met at the school
house to celebrate their fisst Anniversary, Fri-
day, April 16, Mrs. Emma Toone presiding.
There were present by invitation Sisters Eliza-
R. Snow and Bathsheba W. Smith, Elders
C. W. Stayner, F. M. Mitchell, and Bro.
Wheeler, officers of the Relief Society of the
ward, and most of the children's mothers.
The programme consisted of readings, reci a-
tions, songs, essays, and answering questions;
also several songs by all the children together.
After these exercises were over, a most tempt-
ing and delicious dinner was served to all. The
tables were neatly prepared, and one hun-
dred and twenty sat down to partake of the
feast Appropriate and interesting remarks
were made by Sisters Snow and Smith and
Elders Stayner and Mitchell, who expressed
their delight and surprise at the marked im-
provement of the Association in so short a
time.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to the com-
mittee of young sisters and brethren who aided
in making suitable arrangements and seating
the children; and a vote of thanks to the par-
ents who kindly furnished and prepared the
ample and excellent repast. There was a con-
siderable quantity of good things to spare after
all present had freely partaken, which were
distributed to the needy. All who participated
seemed to enjoy themselves, and a good spirit
and feeling was manifest.
			EMMA TOONE, Pres't,
			CECELIA SHARP, Cor. Sec'y.


