LETTER TO THE SISTERS.

	MY DEAR SISTERS.—For several months
past I have been assisting in taking care of 
an aged sister, also in working at my busi-
ness (millinery); altogether my time has
been so taken up that I have been obliged
to stay away from many of our meetings,
yet I can assure you I am still one with you
in the faith of the Everlasting Gospel, re-
vealed in this dispensation for the salvation
of the human race.
	Our beloved sister having now passed be-
yond the portals of the tomb, to rejoin her
loved ones, I feel a little more at liberty,
and will at least be more punctual in the
future to answer my correspondents in va-
rious parts of the Territory, and will be
pleased to hear from any of my friends,
and shall feel cheered to hear of their pro-
gress in the good work. I realize that we
as a people are passing through what may
be termed the "narrows," and the narrow-
est, or most trying ordeals" are yet before
us! I often ponder over the question, "Are
we preparing ourselves" for the eventful
ful period close at hand? "If we are not,"
we should begin at once to live our religion
and watch ourselves very closely, seek to
understand the will of God concerning us
individually, and then earnestly try to carry
out his designs by every word, thought and
act, or we shall be accounted unprofitable
servants.
	The Lord is very merciful to us. He has
warned and forewarned us, through his ser-
vants from time to time, and yet we neglect
our duties and consider our temporal wel-
fare as of more importance. "Who is there"
that attended Conference, and heard the
words of inspiration that flowed from the
mouth of our beloved President, and felt
the power of God that accompanied every
word, but felt the necessity of searching
their own hearts and asking, "Is it I?"
"Am I keeping the commandments of God?
Am I trying to govern myself, and shun
the evils that flesh is heir to? Am I seek-
ing to live worthily before the Lord and his
servants, or am I giving way to the evils
and follies of the world, and living a life of 
hypocrisy and deceit?
	Salvation is personal; it is our own acts

[Column 2]

that will either save or destroy us. No one
can rob us of our salvation through preju-
dice; slander, or falsehood; He who knows
the secrets of all hearts will be our final
Judge. There will be no "favoritism," no
enemy can whisper a word or two, through
jealousy, or envy, and poison the mind of
our Heavenly Father, and deprive us of our
just reward!
	Then let us shake off lethargy, be awake
to every duty, root out the tares sown in
our hearts by our common enemy, forgive
each other even as we hope to be forgiven;
be gentle, patient and forbearing toward
each other, yet firm in right and righteous-
ness; never be guilty of slander, never,
never stoop so low as to utter aught con-
cerning each other that is untrue in any
particular, or that will fall upon our sisters
like a withering blight; true, God will not
let them suffer long under unjust injuries,
but those who are guilty of committing the
wrong will be the ones to snffer the penalty,
besides losing the confidence of those they
injure.
	There  are many things that we, the
daughters of Zion, must put down, before
we can have the blessings of God upon us,
amongst them is the folly, or evil, of for-
tune telling. We find in holy writ there is
a curse pronounced on those who practice
it and lead others to do so. But say some,
"We only do it for fun, we do not put any
faith in it." So much the more reason to
stop it, and spend no more of our time and
money in that which profiteth nothing but
sorrow. I have known sisters to make
themselves miserable over what had been
told them, or what they imagined they had
seen in the tea-grounds.
	We find the Lord speaking through his
prophet, Isaiah, 8th chap, 19th and 20th
verses.
	"And when they shall say unto you, Seek
unto them that have familiar spirits, and
wizards that peep and mutter, should not a
people seek unto their God? To the law
and to the testimony: if they speak not ac-
cording to this word, it is because there is
no light in them."
	How careful should we be, then, to train
our children in the ways of the Lord, and
not set an example before them that will
take them into by and forbidden paths, that
lead to destruction. Let us try to mend our
ways and lead our children to serve God
and enquire of Him in the hour of need, as
did the holy women of old. For the Lord
is our Judge, the Lord is our Law-giver,
the Lord is our King; He will save us if
we faithfully serve Him. Then let us
never weary in well-doing, never be afraid
to testify before the world and each other,
what we know pertaining to the principles
of eternal life. I know this is the work
of God in which we are engaged; I have
known it beyond a doubt from my girlhood.
I know that the gifts and blessings are with
those who live worthy of them; and if we
were to exercise more faith in God, our
sick would be healed, and so many of our
little ones would not be taken from us; we
should not call on doctors so often; when it
is really necessary, then let it be a doctor of
our own faith, that the blessing of God may
attend their labors.
	I have always believed in the order of
plural, or celestial marriage, long before I
was a member of this Church; I learned it
from  the  Scriptures. Since  joining the
Church I know it to be of God, and I would 
earnestly beseech my sisters never to trifle
or tamper with it; far better for them to be
silent concerning it, unless tney really have
a testimony for themselves, and have
strength enough to entirely rely upon  the

[Column 3]

Lord, and have an earnest desire to live ac-
cording to the sacred principles that God
has revealed, irrespective of their own per-
sonal feelings or gratification.
	Let us each and every one, from this
time forth, resolve that by God's help we
will try to set ourselves and our children
right. How easy will it be for the father
of a family to govern his household, where
each individual has learned to govern him-
self. How pleasant and gratifying it would
be to our Bishops, Presidents of Stakes, and
to the Authorities whom God has placed to
preside over us. We should then become
of one heart and one mind, and the God of 
Israel would be our God, and we should
really be to Him a people. He will bless
and protect all who put their trust in Him;
He will frustrate the  designs of our ene-
mies, and put to naught the wisdom of
man.
