R. S. REPORTS.
 SALT LAKE STAKE.
 The Quarterly Conference  of Relief So-
cieties, Young Ladies' and  Primary  Asso-
ciations was held  in the  Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Uooms,  March 19  and  20, 1880.
Reports  received  for  the  quarter  ending
March  15.  Meeting  commenced  at  ten
o'clock  A. M. Friday, March  19. On the
stand were President of R. S. Stake, M.I.
Horne, and her counselors,  Elmina S. Tay-
lor and Sarepta M. Heywood, President Y.
L. M. I. A., Mary A. Freeze, Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, Mrs. M. P.  Young, and Secretary
R. S. Stake, Elizabeth Howard. Synopsis of 
proceedings, speeches, etc.:
 The meeting opened by singing. Prayer
by Mrs. Rebecca  Jones. Singing. Secre-
tary read  minutes  of last  Conference  and
reports from  the  branch  Relief Societies.
Pres. Horne made some remarks upon vocal
music;  also urged the sisters to be punctual
in sending  in reports, and to pay attention
to filling  up the  blanks properly, and learn
to be business women. Earnestly requested
that each ward in the Stake  be represented
verbally by its president or her  counselors,
and  invited all  the  presidents  who  were
present to  come and take seats on  the plat-
form.  Made  other  appropriate remarks,
after which  the  Doxology  was sung, and
meeting adjourned  until  2  P. M. Prayer
by Mrs. M. P. Young.
	Afternoon session:  Meeting  opened with
singing and prayer. Pres. Horne addressed
the sisters on  the  subjects  of unity, faith
and the responsibilities of parents, and par-
ticularly mothers. Mrs. Miller, Pres. R. S.
Twentieth Ward, referred to the large num-
ber of poor and aged they had to attend to
in that ward, and eulogized their late presi-
dent, Mrs. Anna Savage. Mrs. E. S. Taylor
spoke of having recently attended the Sis-
ter's Conference of Tooele Stake; said there
were many brethren present, which was a
great help to the sisters in their endeavors
to  do  good. Spoke  upon  unity  and obe-
dience, and the deference which all should
show to the Priesthood, even the humblest
office  pertaining  to  it.  Mrs.  S M. Hey-
wood said she felt much of the stupendous
work that devolves upon the women of this
Territory. We must  work  together  with
the brethren our interest cannot be divided.
A goodly number of us spent  the  strength
of our young days in coming here  to build
this Territory  but  let  us  try  to still
live to  be  useful  and  help  to  roll  on
this work. 
	Mrs Peart,  Farmers  Ward represented
that Society  as  in  good  condition. Mrs
Fielding 5th Ward S.L. City first Counselor
to  Mrs.  Brimley  spoke  encouragingly of
that Society. Mrs. P. Kimball:  I fear we
do not realize the megnitude  of  the work
we are engaged in, we are here to magnify
our position before God and to prepare our-
selves for every  responsibility  and duty in
life. Let us  teach  our  children  to  have
faith that we may be able to save them from
sickness and  death. It is a  credit to any
ward to take care of the poor;  a little thing
that will cheer and comfort  is a blessing. I
like this  world,  God  made it. I like  my
home, sisters let  our  homes be  houses  of
prayer, let us sustain  those  who  are over
us, and pray for them; let us have less pride
and vanity; *  *  *  Mrs. M. R.  Thomp-
son spoke upon benevolence and  the plenty
we  enjoy,  thought  we  should  do every-
thing that would tend to make  happy  the
sick and needy. Made excellent remarks
upon the  "Word  of  Wisdom,"  said we
should try to observe it that we may receive
the promises.
	Mrs. P, Woodruff:  said on one main point
we are united, that is that God speaks from
the heavens to  us. Let us do to others as
we would have  others  do  to us;  our dead
are watching us to  see if we  are faithful,
they are  anxious  we  should  do  for  them
what they  cannot do  for  themselves: and
let us be faithful and true to the priesthood:
and be of that number that will  be blessed
by entering into our Temples and doing the
work for our progenitors.
	Mrs E  Webb;  said she felt the great nec-
essity of our being united;  our labors are to
be exteuded in all directions, let us prepare
ourselves for the great work, we  are called
to do. Mrs. M. Wilcox; said  we  have the 
priesthood in our midst  and  in  proportion
to the strength given by that power through
the servants of God, the adversary  will  do
his  utmost to thwart the good.
 Mrs. A.  Neal  said  she  knew  the  Lord
loved  his daughters  as  well  as he did his
sons, and  we  should attain to  the  same
glory;  thought we should look  well after
our young  people and keep  them from all
outside  society  if  possible;  said  many
mothers are remiss in sending  the children
to the little meetings where they are taught
the ways of the Lord; made other good re-
marks on the subject of woman. 
	Pres. Horne; said a few words and sug-
gested to the sisters to read  the 9th Chapter
of Daniel. Singing. Meeting adjourned to
10  A.  M.  March  20. Benediction. Mrs.
Rachel  R. Grant.
	Statistical and  Financial  reports  of  the
Relief Societies  Salt  Lake  Stake  for  the
Quarter ending March 15, 1880.
 Statistical: teachers, 545;  members 2188;
meetings held 183; average attendance 698;
Woman's EXPONENT, taken 403.
 Financial: On hand at date of last  report
cash  $505,45; property  $949,06; receipts
during the quarter cash  $516,44; property
$478,39. 
	Disbursements: To the needy cash $309,
85;  property $380,  59;  temple cash $70,05; pro-
perty $15, 45; home industries cash $56, 09; 
books cash 14,49; building property 227,30;
Indians, merchandise $140,32; on hand cash
$344,20; property $4,891,08;  wheat 3,631
bushels.  
	This report does not include the 4th, 11th,
and 12th Wards  Salt  Lake  City  nor  Mill
Creek, East Mill Creek,  South Cottonwood,
West  Jordan, nor Mountain Dell Societies. 
These wards were not reported except South 
Cottonwood which did not arrive in time.
 Officers of Stake Organization  of  Relief
Society Salt Lake Co. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
Pres. Elmina  S.  Taylor,  and  Sarepta M.
Heywood, Counselors.  Elizabeth  Howard.
Secretary. Mariea R.  Wilcox,  Cor., Sec. 
Bathsheba W. Smith, Treasurer. 

	Report of  Primary Association of Spring
City Sanpete Co. Apr.  1,  1880. Organized
June  29th, 1979, by Sister  M. A. P. Hyde
and Counselors; Sister Ellis was chosen as
President; Sisters Hitchcock and Larson
Cousleors; Mary O. Allred Secretary;  Wm.
Barny Assistant; Flora G. Hyde Treasurer.
Have held 30 meetings;  160,  members  en-
rolled;  average  attendance  70; given  to
Temple $2,80cts; on hand 85 cts.;  4 bushels
of wheat gleaned 9lbs. of beans donated.
			MARY O. ALLRED Secretary.

	The Primary  Association  of American
Fork was  organized  October  23,  1878;
Sister Ann Rowley was appointed President,
Sisters Mary A.  Evans  and  Mary  Mott
counselors. We meet every Saturday after-
noon, at 3 o'clock. The members in at-
tendance, average from 75 to 100.
	The children have pieced  blocks,  for a
very nice quilt, and we have  given  it  as a
donation for the Temple, prized at $6,00.
 January 17th, 1880, we had our  first An-
niversary. Exercises consisted  of Recita-
tions and Singing; The Ariticles of Faith,
Restoration of the Gospel, etc. I think the
children are improving fast,  for  they  take
a great interest in  their  meetings. $3,15
worth if prizes were distributed among the 
children.
	These "Primary  Associations"  through
the blessing of "Our Heavenly Father," will
prove  a  great  benefit;  for  their young
minds are as blank paper, ready to be writ-
ten upon; and those principles  that  are
planted on their young  minds,  are not so
easily  erased for while  young  they  are as
clay, in the hands of the  potter ready to be
molded, to love and  to do the will of God.
	Hoping the Primary, and all other Asso-
ciations throughout the county will continue
to imporove, is my  earnest prayer.
	ANN ROWLEY Pres.
	MARY ELLEN SHELLEY Assist. Sec'y.
	14 years old.

	A few  items from  the Y. L. M. I. A, of
Springvile. The Society numbers 80 mem-
bers. A marked improvement is noticeable
in our meetings, and the desire to learn the
principles of the Gospel, and the duties andprivileges of the gentler  sex  is  demon-
strated by the interest manifested by many
of our sisters both young and old. We hold
weekly meedings of the Society also monthly
conjoint meetings with the Y. M. M. I. A.,
all of which  are spoken highly of, and the 
spirit prevailing at the same is commended
by the authorities of the ward.
	At our annual meeting  which  was held
March 15th the officers of  the  society were
re-elected by a unanimous vote; and the en-
tertainment  given  on  that  occasion will
long be  remembered  by  those  who were
present, to the number of 4 or 500 persons. 
The society have a library  of  47 volumes. 
We also have  some  wheat and  other  pro-
perty on hand. We have paid $25,00  this
winter towards  land  upon  which  to  raise
mulberry trees for  the  production  of silk.
The desire of the society is to be  useful  in
instructing the women  of  our  communtiy
in all good works, and to assist our brethren
who bear the holy Priesthood  in  preparing
the Saints for the advent  of  our  Lord and
Savior Jesus Christ. I subscribe myself
your sister in  the covenant of peace,
			CLARY SNOW, Cor. Sec'y.
	Springville, Apr.  18, 1880. 

	The Relief Society of Clarkston held their 
annual meeting on Thursday the 15th, of
April our worthy Bishop  John  Jardine and
a few of the brethren met  with  us; also
Bro.  Wm.  Griffin  Counselor  to  Bishop
Rigby of Newton and some of the  leading
sisters of that place attended.
 The meeting was addressed by the fol-
lowing named sisters and  brethren. Pres.
Mary Griffin, her two Counselors, Ann Keep
and Sarah Carbine; Marinda Jardine  Pres


asked the children by Sister E. R. Snow;
all the questions were answered promptly.
The Lord's Prayer was then repeated in
concert by them, after which they sang
"Redeemer of Israel."
	The minutes of the last meeting of each
ward, together with a report thereof, were
read by the Secretary of each society.
	The reports exhibited gratifying results,
both of the financial prosperity and religious
interest.
	President Taylor then addressed the au-
dience, directing his remarks mostly to the
children. When the Lord Jesus was upon
the earth, the children crowded around
him, and when they were told to retreat by
His disciples, Jesus said, "Suffer little chil-
dren to come unto me, for of such is the
kingdom of Heaven." Thus He showed
that He loved little children. He loved
them still, and when they were good He
would hear their prayers, and answer them,
though in person He was not with them on
the earth.
	Apostle F. D. Richards read; at the re-
quest of Pres. Taylor, a passage from the
8th chapter of Nephi, where Jesus com-
manded the people on this continent to
bring their children together that He might
bless them, and the signs which took place
in the heavens after this blessing.
	Pres. Taylor desired this passage read to
show how well Jesus loved little children.
The Lord had revealed His will to Joseph
the prophet regarding the principles He
wished observed by the people of the earth;
the Elders had brought our parents to the 
truth, and upon the children would soon
rest the responsibility of carrying on the
work of their parents; therefore they
should be good and kind, and avoid being
harsh and of a lighting nature, in order to
prepare themselves for the work before
them.
	Sister E. R. Snow, by the unanimous re-
quest of the children, next spoke, relating
stories whose morals showed that the pray-
ers of the Elders will heal the sick, also
that carefulness is a necessity in becoming
great,
	Sister Zina D. Young asked a number of
questions regarding interesting items to
the children, and told them to remember
the passage:

"Count that day lest
	Whose low descending sun
Views from thy hand
	No worthy action done."

	Sister Richards Apostle F. D. Richards,
Elder L. J. Herrick, and President D. H.
Peery then followed with pleasing remarks
to the children, each narrating some anec-
dote or story to impress upon their minds
the necessity of obedience, honesty, right-
eousness and truth in all their actions in
life.
	After singing, Sister Zina D. Young dis-
missed by prayer, and the large congrega-
tion dispersed, all going home happy and 
contented with what they had heard, seen
and learned.


