REPORTER S. Y. GATES.

	Minutes of the Celebration of the Jubi-
lee held in the Tabernacle. Called to order
by Pres. McAllister. Singing, Anthem,
"Hark! the song of Jubilee," by the choir.
Prayer, Pres. Henry W. Eyring. Singing,
"Jubilee Song," composed by C. L. Walker,
Choir.
	Reading of Revelation on Church, given
to Joseph Smith April 6. 1830, Sec. 20, new
edition Doc. and Cov., by J. M. McFarlane.
	Singing by choir and people, "The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning."
	Remarks by Elder Milo Andrus—Never
in a life's experience had been the feeling
of inability to do justice to an occasion of so
vast importance been experienced by the
speaker; and never had a spirit seemed so
akin to the one felt in Kirtland, at the
dedication of the Temple, as at present.
Exhorted the people to exert themselves to
obtain the Spirit of God to-day. Where
is the illiterate boy who first started out in
this grand march to heaven? He hoped, if
time was allowed him (the prophet), to visit
earth, that he might visit the audiences of
the Saints to day. The first fourteen years
were years of toil. The old, the middle-
aged, the youth, were not blamable for
their birth, but all were in place. Alluded
to the feast of the martyrs, which would be
a glorious affair. Wished that it conld be
noised abroad that although the Saints of
God had been driven and persecuted, yet
from now, henceforth and forever, that the
kingdom of God should triumph. A trib-
ute to the martyrs, Joseph and Hyrum, was
given by the speaker. All nature is in-
spired to-day—even unbelievers ought to
prophecy to-day, the air is full of the power
of God. The day was full of rejoicing.
Opposition had followed the Church since
the commencement. But if 'twere differ-
ent, the conviction would force itself upon
the mind that this Church was as the creeds
of the world. Exhorted all to remain true
to the Gospel. Where does this mind, this
intelligence go? To dust? No; it is part
of divinity—part of the Eloheim. Intelli-
gence is God; and may it double, treble,
and increase ten thousand times in the next
fifty years. Our course is onward, onward,
upward, eternally upward, eternal forever.
Closed with an invocation and blessing upon
all the people of God. Amen.
	Singing by the Swiss Choir, "We have
thought of thy loving kindness."
	Song, "Make home beautiful," by A. S.
W. Segmiller, chorus by the Choir.
	Select reading by A. W. Ivins,—selection
from Parley P. Pratt's Auti-biography.
	Music—organ solo—Elder Eugene Schaah-
maun.
	Telegram from Pres. E. Snow—
	April 6, 1880.—The Apostles voted to re-
mit the back tithing and P. E. Fund in-
debtedness to the worthy poor, and donate
one thousand cows and five thousand sheep,
and recommend general relief to the needy.
	Remarks by Pres. McAllister—Although
weak in body, the spirit was full of rejoic-
ing and solemnity. At times he had been
wrought upon to speak harshly, but it was
the chidings of a very dear friend. The
people had heard a sketch of Joseph Smith,
his life and glorious death. A few words
were added by the speaker to the remarks
of Bro. Andrus in relation to Joseph Smith;
a few items were added to the history of
the martyrs. The blessings of God and
power to do His will, were asked for by the
speaker. Amen.

[Column 2]
	Singing by the Santa Clara Choir, "Who
are these in bright array."
	Dismissed for thirty minutes by Bishop
Ensign.
	Opening one o'clock, Choir sang anthem,
"We're willing to wait a little longer."
	Prayer, D. H. Cannon.
	Singing by Santa Clara Choir, "We come,
dear friends, to greet you."
	Refreshments,
	Singing, "Springtime has come again."
	Address, Susie Young Gates. Music on
organ by Sister M. A. Dufrieze.
	Music, composed by a missionary, by the
Santa Clara Brass Band.
	Dialogue by Masters Woolley, Whitehead
and Romney.
	Duet, "What are the wild waves saying?"
	Trio, "Fret not thyself," J. Eardley and
daughters.
	Singing, "With a holy purpose."
	Hymn, Geoffrey Wellaner and wife.
	Quartette by the Staeheli.
	Remarks by Pres. McAllister—Seemed
to feel that the Spirit of the Lord had been
abundantly poured out this day. Read the
revelation to Oliver Cowdery in relation to
taking the name of the Lord without au-
thority. The duty of the President of the
High Priesthood is to preside over the
whole Church. Read parts of various reve-
lations. Gave a word of counsel to the
Bishops to see that those who are needy
may be supplied with comforts. Blessed
the people, the committees, the choirs, the
singers, the readers, the little boys, and all
who have taken any part. Amen.
	Choir sand, "Beautiful Moonlight."
	Dismissed by Bro. Edson Barney.


[Column 1]
