EDUCATION OF THE YOUNG.

   Is there anything of so much  importance as
the proper education of the young?  Is it not
necessary to  make  Herculean  efforts to  train
them in the right direction?  Upon them must
eventually rest  all  the  responsibilities  of an
important  era.  If  they  are  to  do  a  greater
work than their parents, if more is to be accom-
plished in the near future, as Zion increases in
numbers and gains power and strength, then
assuredly they need to be thrice armed, "for their
quarrel is  just," to prepare  them for the  great
events which are  about  to develop.  There is
no time to be lost.  Wickedness is  on  the  in-
crease, the powers  of  darkness are mustering
all their  forces.  The Saints  should  gather
strength  to  combat  darkness  and  error, by
moral and spiritual forces.
 A deep sleep seems to have fallen upon some,
and they are indifferent to the evil influences
that  are  fast  gaining  ground, and perchance
creeping stealthily into  their own households.
Is there not a parable of a farmer whose enemy
came and sowed tares while  he  slept?  At the
present time there  are some mothers carelessly
dozing, and the  cunning one is sowing in  the
hearts of their innocent little  children  the
seeds of misery and wretchedness; seeds that
will spring up in time to come, and whose fruit
will be a deadly poison.  Oh, mothers, awake!
look to your darling ones; watch them more
carefully; they  are indeed  precious  gems en-
trusted to your care; see to it they are not lost,
or the lustre  of  their spirits dimmed.  Gather
them around you and teach them  the  princi-
bles of honesty, virtue, and truth.  Do not leave
them wholly to the care of others, if you can
possibly devote to their instruction a portion of
your own time. The best  education you can
give to the  little  ones is  home  discipline; a
mother's gentle, restraining, guiding influence.
 As they grow in years and enter upon school
life, do not give up your mother-share in their
education. Watch over their various pursuits;
encourage them to come to you  with all their
doubts; then you may have the opportunity to
give them light and strength  to wrestle with
difficulties. Be careful that their instructors
in  every  department  of life-work are such as
you can approve; those who will teach them
truth, not error.  Select judiciously their com-
panions and their books.  Books are compan-
ions.  Many false ideas and unholy sentiments
are gathered from these silent associates.
 To aid mothers in the spiritual education of
the children, the  Primary  Associations  have
been organized among the  Saints.  They will
have  an influence to lead them into the chan-
nel of a  proper education.  As a people we can
not be too particular in training the children.
It is necessary they should  have mighty faith,
for disease in the form of pestilence is about to
sweep over the earth, and nothing but faith in
God, through  the  administration  of His holy
ordinances, can stay its progress.  The physical
condition must be preserved as pure as possible,
and all the spiritual faculties strong and bright
to effectually wrestle with the powerful agen-
cies which will be more terrible and destrut-
ive than the sword.
 In what condition is the world to battle with
these elements of death?  Read their own pub-
lications and you will learn. 
  The early  education  of children should re-
ceive more careful attention from  the  mother
than any other department of her work.  "I
have no time to teach my children," are words
we often  hear from a mother.  Then let some-
thing else go undone.  Eager  and  anxious to
learn, thirsting, hungering  for  knowledge, if
you do not satisfy this earnest craving of their 
little minds some one else will; and it may not
be the kind of intelligence which will be good
for them; that will yield good fruit in time to
come.  The children want knowledge, they
are born with the desire to obtain it, and it is 
the duty of parents and teachers to supyly
them with  that  which  will  prove  of lasting
benefit. New methods of instruction are being
devised  constantly  for  their  education  in
schools, and every facility that will add to the
improvement in book learning, but Latter-day
Saints want something more.  The children of
Zion have God's work to do and their discipline
and education should be administered  accord-
ingly.


