PLAYING MARBLE-KEEPS.

	Is not this  to the  boy what cards  are to the
man? If there are any who have not thought
of it, or are  doubtful  of the  fact, just observe
the intense absorption of the boys whole facul-
ties in winning and hoarding his marbles--
counting them over every night a[-] a miser does
his gold. Also just  take  time, you doubting
Thomas, who carelessly says, "Oh, let boys be
boys and have their innocent fun, for care and
toil come all too soon and hard;" just take time
to watch a game of keeps, and observe the 
most scrupulous exaction of the tiny competi-
tors, and the numerous  attempts to  take the
advantage, even to CHEAT; fully carrying out
the maxim of "All is fair in war." Also mark
the loud tone of wrangling, if fortunately it
does not come to blows--all indicating an edu-
cation not at all to be coveted, or calculated to
enhance or beautify home life. 
	As Heaven's own appointed special guardians,
we mothers should raise our voices against this
growing evil; we must  nip this budding love
for ill-gotten  gains  in the  germ, or many a 
mother  will  awake, alas!  all too late, to the 
heart rending realization that her beloved boy
--the apple of her eye--is a confirmed gambler. 
	In the  good  old  days, to win the game was
fun enough, why not now? Ah!  I forgot, we
have progressed. Humph!  like we have in
some other ways. The legitimate path of life
is too narrow, too  prosy; civilization demands


departure into by and forbidden paths for re-
laxation and recreation.
	As mothers, we cannot be too careful or too
diligent in guiding our sons and daughters into
the best and safest paths of life. If all moth-
ers will consider this subject and use their con-
certed influence against it, something will be
done. Our boys can play and be boys and still
grow to be honest men.
	Do any of us realize how much we mothers
have, or ought to do, to fulfill our motherhood
with such a record as shall tinge our cheeks
with joy and swell our hearts with pride when
our Father shall say, "Well done, thou good
and faithful mother."
