APRIL 6, 1880, BY SUSA YOUNG GATES.

	Christ's latter-day kingdom's fiftieth
birthday! The dullest eye lights up, the
numbest heart is stirred with joy to greet
this year of jubilee.
	O'er dark and jagged paths, the feet of
those have trod who started out just fifty
years ago. The shrinking flesh oft torn by
cruel briars. The bleeding hands upheld
to God for grace. Fierce missiles of invec-
itve hate flung from all sides by Bigotry.
Hark! A shuddering horror leaps from heart
to heart, as through the camps the news is
spread of cold, fiendish murder. An al-
most worshiped prophet and a loved patri-
arch have sealed their everlasting faith up-
on the people's hearts,in dying for Christ's
kingdom. Mourn Israel! Weep daughters
of Zion! Gloom shadows all, the very birds
refuse to sing, for wicked men have slain a
man of God, have stained their hands with
the blood of Christ's priesthood. But lift
the darksome vail, oh saints and onward
take your way to the setting sun. The tiny
wail of murdered childhood, the graves
scooped out with quivering hands to lay
the best beloved on cruel foreign soil. The
pillaged home, the smoking ruins,the reek-
ing scenes of blood and carnage all mark
the progress of God's people to these lovely
vales.	*	*	*
	The dusty road ends in a lovely valley.
Strong men and brave women crowd out
and spread around to lay the plow and plant
the seed in virgin ground. Tents, wagons,
rude log huts, adobe houses arise on every
hand, and soon the curling smoke of peace
steals from the lowly homes upon the desert
air. A chain of valleys is filled and re-
deemed from north to south of our dear
Territory. Anon fair peace and gleesome

[Column 2]
plenty smile down upon the land. The
fields swing out their wealth and factories
hum with labor. Homes rise up in peace-
ful pride and busy life is unmolested. The
pilgrim band are led by God through Brig-
ham Young, and years fall into years and
still, 'tis peace. But now,a sound of wailing
sorrow chills the air, and even babes send
up their mourning cry for him that was the
people's father, friend and leader. But on,
on goes God's mighty work. The Twelve
take up the burden, and he who steps aside
is left behind.
	Now upon Zion's mount the people
gather to their Temples, and join the Hea-
venly hosts in giving Life to Death. This
year is full of past and future. And we
God's Israel wipe out the vengeful Past and
with an outstretched hand greet brother
sister in the future. Lay down the yoke of
Selfishness, O Saints, take np the wreaths of
Kindness, and celebrate our Jubilee with
Love aye, God-like Charity. All Israel's
heart throbs out with sweetest joy and
praise, and Israel's soul's a tuned harp,
which sings the glorious song of gladness.
Peal forth the heavenly news that Zion's
Jbuilee had oome!
	To day the seal of fifty years is set upon
the Kingdom's History. Rouse up ye
Saints! For aged hearts bound full of youth
to-day, and feel again the Spring of Life.
Firm middle age the firmer grasps the Iron
Rod, and sends one mighty song to God.
Bright youth adjusts his heavenly armor on
to-day and feels the thrill of love divine in
taking up His Word.
	Shout out the song of praise. Respond ye
hearts and tongues of Israel. And join the
Angel Choruses, and sing, eternal praises
to our King. Let all the people say Amen!!
and Amen!!!


