She Road of Memories Fredrika Clinch HERE are many things which can start the mind traveling backward in a dream over an old road of memories. It can be the sunrise or the sunset, the howl of a coyote, a train whistle, the smell of fresh-cut lucern, the wind moaning in the chimney of an empty house, the sound of water, the song of a bird in meadow or tree, the smell of food, or the crackling of a fire. ) A train whistle breaks the stillness of the night, and the clicking of the wheels turns the present into the past. I am traveling backward in a dream over an old road of memories. Again I hear the clicking of the wheels of the train that passed the sugar-beet field, where my mother, sister, and brother toiled thinning and topping beets, while I played close by in the shade of the willows, out of the sweltering heat. I smell the fresh-cut lucern with the purple flowers, which my father cut with the mower in the field next to the sugar-beet acres. Looking south from the fields, I can still see the towering smokestack of the Elsinore Factory where our beets were made into sugar. Leaving the fields, I come to a grove of elm trees, and, nestled among them, is the humble adobe house where I was born and lived until I was five; then my father moved us to Southern Utah, to John's Valley, which was named after Dr. John A. Widtsoe. There the coyotes howled with the restPage 448 less wind, and the sagebrush grew as tall as trees. Before crops could be planted, we had to uproot the sagebrush from the soil. Fortunately, this was not a difficult thing to do, for in that soil the roots of the brush yielded readily to pick and harrow. In that wilderness, living was precarious, because every seed that was planted depended on the elements to make it grow, for there was no water supply to use if the rains failed to come. When the rains came, we had good crops, which had to be stored in the one-room, twelve-by-sixteen, cabin where we ate and slept. When the bins were full, we had very little space for living, and we had to sleep on the grain on straw ticks, with barely enough room to turn between the log rafters and the grain. We didn't mind sleeping like that, because we knew that some day the grain would go to the mill, and that meant food and clothing for the winter. It was the dry seasons that we dreaded. For days, weeks, and months, we would watch for the dense, black clouds to come, but day after day there would be only cumulus clouds that looked like gigantic heaps of meringue. Such clouds are beautiful to people who aren't looking and praying for rain. Many summers the crops burned in the fields, and the pond went dry. Every time I cut fudge into squares, it makes me think of the bottom of the pond before it got THE ROAD OF MEMORIES too dry and curled at the edges. When the pond was dry, the water had to be carried two miles from the neighbor's well, or from the river. OOKING south from the cabin, "~ we could see a cliff we called "Pink Cake, with white frosting." A short drive from Pink Cake was Bryce Canyon, that miracle of nature, with its fantastic temples, spires, and grotesque shapes, sculptured by the wind and water of the ages. When I close my eyes, I am again taking my first trip to Bryce Canyon with my parents and sisters. We are in the bumpy wagon, and father and mother are in the spring seat with their backs to us. 449 It was when they weren't looking we would have our arguments, because father hated to hear us quarrel, and so we were careful to keep our voices below the noise of the wagon. We knew that if father heard us disagree, we might all have to go back to the farm, and we wouldn't get to camp under the pines, and see the sunset and sunrise over Bryce Canyon. At that time, the splendor of the canyon was unknown to tourists. The appearance of the canyon changes very little with time, and so it is with men. But customs change rapidly. Yet a smell or a sound can carry me back into the past even as the salmon that always returns to its native waters.