[Vol23 | June 1936 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Social Security Program Anderson]
These major hazards or misfortunes in life are well known to all of us—unemployment, sickness— physical and mental, accidents, premature death of the bread winner, old age, and various kinds of physical handicaps. The Social Security Act, in attempting to provide against some of 357 these major hazards, uses all three methods which are known to welfare work.
These three methods are: relief, insurance and prevention. For example, in the case of accident, if the bread winner of the household suffers an accident, we may simply put relief into the family, or we may provide a system of accident insurance so that the earner and his family may be protected, or we may spend our welfare funds in a program of prevention. Relief, insurance and prevention, the three ways are all used under the Social Security program. The relief method is used in the grants-in-aid, under the Social Security Act.
These grants-in-aid are provided for old age, for dependent children, for the blind, for crippled children and for vocational rehabilitation of the physically injured. The insurance method is used in the provisions for unemployed insurance, which it is designed will be administered by the States. The taxes levied under this portion of the act are to be used by the Federal Government in helping the States carry the costs of administration of their unemployment insurance laws. The insurance method is also used for the old age annuities, which are based on insurance principles, and which are paid for out of the taxes which are levied for that purpose on employers and employees. The preventive method is used in connection with the grants-in-aid for public health, maternal and child health and child welfare. The Social Security Program is too broad in its scope to discuss as a whole in the course of a half hour period.
Because of that fact and because the opportunities and responsibilities of the Relief Society lie at present, at least, largely in the field of the grants-in-aid for old age, for dependent children and for the blind, I shall limit my discussion this 358 afternoon to the grants-in-aid for these three specific purposes. "THE principle of grants-in-aid is well established already in this country.
Under the theory of the grants-in-aid the administration of the law is left with the local community—the State or County; the Federal Government fixes standards, and any State which complies with these standards may then receive reimbursement up to a certain percentage of the amount of money which the State has spent in that particular activity. The grants-inaid principle has been used in the case of agricultural extension work; aid for highways; the Smith-Hughes Act for vocational education; the Sheppard-Towner Act, with which you Relief Society workers are familiar; and the public employment service. The principle of the grantsin-aid has been tested in the Federal Courts and held constitutional, and there is not, therefore, the same questions regarding it as there is with reference to the insurance features of the Social Security Act. I want for just a moment to discuss with you the situation with reference to these three problems of old age, dependent children and the blind in the Western States before the Social Security Act was passed. In 1930 there was six and a half million people in the country over sixty-five years of age, which was five and four-tenths of the population of the country. But we have gone so far in decreasing the infant mortality rate, and in prolonging life, that it is very evident the proportion of old people in our population is rapidly increasing, and it is estimated that by 1970 there will be twenty million people in the country over sixty-five years of age.
Before the depression about one-third of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE these old people were dependent; since the depression approximately one-half of these old people are dependent.
There are seven million four hundred thousand children under sixteen years of age in families on the relief rolls of this country at the present time.
Seven hundred thousand of these are in families where the family has been deprived of support of the bread winner— through death or absence of the father.
Before the Security Act less than one-third of these dependent children were receiving relief under our existing Mothers' Aid Laws.
There are over one hundred thousand blind in the United States, 1. E., people having no useful vision. Of the one hundred thousand, approximately twenty-three thousand were receiving blind pensions or allowances prior to the Social Security Act. I AM assuming that those of you who are here today come from Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Wyoming.
Practically all of these States before the Security Act had old age pension laws, mothers' aid laws and blind pension laws. New Mexico was the only one of the group without an old age pension law. In this group of States, in round numbers, there are four hundred thousand people over sixty-five years of age.
Experience shows that if the old age pension law is properly drawn and properly administered, about 20% of the aged will qualify for assistance; 20% of that number would be about eighty thousand in these Western States.
Before the Security Act there were just about half that number who were receiving assistance under the provisions of existing old age pension laws.
These pensions, however, SOCIAL SECURITY PROGRAM were very low: ranging from $5.32 in New Mexico, to $20.25 in Colorado. The average amount paid in these Western States was $12.15 per person.
Most of these States had Mothers' Aid Laws. The payments under these laws ranged from $4.00 per child up to around $20.00.
There were 26,/00 children aided under the Mothers' Aid laws in these States before the Social Security Act. The average amount granted per child in these States was $9.00 per month.
There were 5,456 blind in these ten States.
About half of them, or a little over 3,000, were receiving some blind assistance under the laws of these States. In general, then, about half the people in these three classifications who could be reasonably expected to qualify in normal times under the provisions of the Social Security Act, were receiving assistance under the State laws prior to the passage of the Social Security Act. In most of these States, however, the administration was on a County basis.
California had a State and local combination basis, and Arizona had a state-wide method of distributing Mothers' Aid.
Outside of that the provision was entirely local in all of the States, and was for the most part not mandatory on the Counties.
What does the Social Security Act offer to these States? The Social Security Act provides, in the case of old age, that if the State complies with the requirements of the Federal Act, the State will be reimbursed by the Federal Government up to one-half its expense, within a limit of $30.00 per month to one individual for the care of the needy aged over sixty-five years of age who are not inmates of institutions, who are citizens of the United States, and who have resided in the State for five out of the preceding nine years, and 359 in the local community for one year. The Federal Government also reimburses the State for costs of administering the old age assistance to the extent of 5% of the Federal grant in aid. The Federal Government goes even further in encouraging States to extend the application of existing Mothers' Aid laws. It offers reimbursement equal to one-third of the amount expended by the States (under an approved plan) for the care of dependent children. In practically all of our existing mothers' aid laws, however, the aid is limited to a mother who is caring for her children in her own home.
Under the provisions of the Social Security Act the child does not need to be living with its mother. The Federal Act allows the State to define a dependent child as, "a child under the age of sixteen, who has been deprived of parental support, or care by reason of the death, continued absence from the home or physical or mental incapacity of a parent and who is living with his father, mother, grandfather, grandmother, brother, sister, stepfather, step-mother, step-brother, step-sister, uncle or aunt, in a place of residence maintained by one or more of such relatives at his or their own home." The provisions of the Act relating to dependent children are, in my judgment, the most farreaching of all the provisions of the Social Security Act, and will have an ultimate greater effect on the welfare set-up than any other provisions of the Act. The Federal grants for aid to the blind are on about the same basis as those for the aged except that there is no age requirement in the case of the blind. O what extent have the Western States qualified for Federal as- 360 sistance under the Social Security Act? I hesitate to even attempt to answer that question, because conditions in every State are changing so rapidly that what is true today may not have been true yesterday, and what was true yesterday may not be true today. I secured a report last night, however, which gave the latest information available from Washington, and that report showed that the following States among those that I have naméd have qualified under the provisions of the Social Security Act: for old age assistance—Idaho, Wyoming, Utah and New Mexico; for aid to the blind— Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona and New Mexico; for aid to dependent children—Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona, New Mexico. I understand in addition that the Legislature of Colorado is now in session for the express purpose of framing such laws as will enable Colorado to comply with the provisions of the Social Security Act, and qualify for its benefits.
Oregon and California have qualified for unemployment insurance, but for none of the grants-in-aid features of the Security Act.
Montana and Nevada have apparently not qualified for any of the benefits of the Social Security Act.
What does the Federal Government require in order that a State may qualify for these grants?
