GUIDE LESSONS. 555

b. Why not leave the rich, who perhaps do not work so hard as yourselves, to enjoy this most beautiful time of day? Madam Wealthy cannot take from this life five cents of her money; but one must take one's own soul into the eternities. Should we let that soul wither through neglect or dis-use of divine powers? What can you do to enrich and strengthen your observation? (Do the evening work early, and take time to enjoy every moment of the twilight.)

ARCHITECTURE.

Devotees and their Shrines, 120-131.

1. Preface.
2. Architecture in England.
3. Architecture before the Renaissance.

Who is George M. Allen, author of History of Architecture in Devotees and their Shrines?

Answer: Son of Prof. David R. and Leila Merrill Allen, and the eldest living great grandchild of the late President Geo. A. Smith. He was a favorite great grandchild of the late President Bathsheba W. Smith, who named him. He graduated with honors at the University of Utah and took the degree of Master of Architecture at Columbia University, New York. He is intensely artistic, and has been greatly interested with his parents in artistic gardening. He is teaching classes in architecture, in Columbia, and is engaged in large architectural enterprises in New York City and in New Jersey. He inherits intellectual and artistic qualities from both parents, and physically is a type of the Prophet Joseph amplified, standing six feet four inches in his stockinged feet. He responded enthusiastically to the invitation to write a simple story of the development and utility of art in English and American architecture, and worked far into the night for weeks between hours of teaching and study at Columbia, to get his papers ready for illustration. The cuts were made in New York. The cuts for the art and gardening were made in Salt Lake City.

Pages 120-124, by George M. Allen, "Architecture."

(a) What is the difference between building and architecture?
(b) The way and manner in which the architectural ideas of any time and people are expressed depend, on what three things?
(c) What was the architecture in England before the Renaissance?
(d) What influence was brought by Norman ecclesiastics?

Fig. 1 Interior of Norwich.

(e) What can you say of the ceiling vaults of stone?
(f) What did this lead to.
(g) What Gothic churches have you visited in Europe? Describe Westminster.

Fig. 2.


Lesson IV.
Home Economics.

THE MODERN HOME.
January 25.

The man, the woman and the child have formed the basis of society since the dawn of time. The mother and the child must have shelter from the storms, food for the body, and protection from outside dangers. The father must provide these. This is the fundamental reason for organized life. The human child is the most helpless creature alive; the mother of the human species is the least able to cope with physical danger, and requires most care from the male. In savage conditions, both in modern and in ancient times, the food was, and is, of the coarsest, and the shelter of the rudest nature. In the patriarchal days, tents and portable houses served for the home. In ancient times, as well as today, city life multiplies luxuries and complicates home living.

The Hebrews have ever kept their home altars bright; but the Pagans have ever made the individual ? not the family ? the unit of social and political life. In the dark ages, the convent controlled all social, political, and domestic life, thus making celibacy the ideal human condition. With the Renaissance ? or the awakening ? which followed the religious Reformation of Luther and Knox, the sounder and more righteous home ideal of ancient Israel began to emerge from the superstitions of the Dark Ages. The reformers themselves married and taught the value and importance of home life to the people. As the home developed in importance, the common people emerged into freedom and independence. The family of today is founded on the ancient relation of the man, the woman and the child. In ideal conditions, man's relative importance is gauged by his sincerity and activity in his family relations. The woman is considered in her relation to her child rather than in her independent condition as individual in society. The ideals of the family should be based on the fundamental virtues of truth, sobriety, chastity, and loyalty. The test of efficiency in the home, in society, in governmental, political, and religious life should be the true measure of the whole manhood and the whole womanhood. The Twentieth Century Home. The home of today is. much modified, especially in urban or city conditions. While all civilized nations court the ideal of home standardization, yet few really cling to the fundamentals which are indispensable to true GUIDE LESSONS. 557 home-life. The changing conditions of man and woman in the last and present centuries, promises serious disasters, unless inspired rule of conduct hold the level of home ideals. Man has tacitly admitted that a double standard of virtue is a necessity for him, while woman has reached such a dizzy altitude in social activity that both these forces threaten the physical and spiritual integrity of the home. Social Conditions. The domestic virtues unconsciously practiced so long by Christian parents have all been brought out from their discreet hiding places, ticketed, labeled, and weighed in the balance. After all the modern rigid examination and discussion it has been decided by all concerned that the Bible is still, and after all, the vital domestic text-book. False ideals, uneven moral standards, the undue elevation of either man, woman, or the child becomes dangerous to society and the home, so that if we are to have an ideal home each falls naturally into the places God ordained for each to fill. And this permits us to approach our study of The Home from a true social angle. Political Changes. Man everywhere, in America, Europe, and even in Pagan Asia, is coming to a fuller understanding of his personal relations to government and his consequent personal responsibility to the state. It is only since the United States of America was declared independent, that man has actually achieved individual independence. For even today, it is only the privileged classes in so-called free England that may hold the highest offices in the state's gift. The present war will no doubt make great changes in political matters all over Europe. In the United States, woman, always a little behind her men-folk, is demanding and receiving full political equality. With political power, ? the power to vote. ? goes political responsibility. The family should think carefully, discuss freely and vote wisely. Property rights of both men and women have taken almost unsafe jumps from the conservative standards of long ago. The legislation of the present time is very liberal to women and children, so liberal that other evils may arise which will offset the good done unless controlled and directed by wise and honest officeholders. Industrial Changes have been so startling that it is impossible to foresee the end. Machinery has changed all domestic and agricultural labor, and has entered the school, the business office, and has even invaded the realms of music, painting and sculpture. The industries, trades and professions are all dominated by constantly improving mechanical inventions, so that men and women must constantly adapt themselves to these changing conditions. The advantages of this industrial improvement are enormous. Time is given to man, through the machinery invented; but man 
 and woman turn around and use the time thus gained, not so much to serve and bless each other as to increase their own selfish pleasures, while they multiply the sum of their own luxuries. All society cries out for more machinery, more money, more time, more luxury, more personal pleasure. Only one force? that of righteousness?will avail to adjust differences and to permit equality of right? the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the only solution to all human difficulties and disagreements. QUESTIONS ON LESSON I. 1. What is the meaning of renaissance? (See dictionary.) a. Tell something of its effects on literature, science, exploration, and the attitude of men's minds toward life. b. What great men stand out as instruments in bringing about this "new birth" of common intelligence and independent thinking. Did this 2. home what birth" and "new was have it? any effect on men and women in the a. What was man and woman's condition educationally and politically before and after the Renaissance? Tell all you can about the art of printing and its effect on humanity. 4. Where were the common industries of life performed before the renaissance and what part did woman take in them? 5. What effect did the changes in the performance of the industries have on humanity? 6. Of what does the present day family consist? a. What part does each take in the world's work? b. Is the work interchangeable and why? 7. What is the ideal of the average family today? a. Is it worthy? Should it be changed and why? How may it be changed? 8. What do you consider an efficient family? a. Define the word efficient. b. How may it be applied to family life. 9. What was the condition of man and woman prior to the nineteenth century in social life? political life? educational life? religious life? a. Do you think the homes of the past generation superior or inferior to those of the present day? And why? Could you suggest how a change could be made? 10. Name all the industries you can think of that were once performed in the home, but are now done by machinery. 11. What force will purify society and create a perfect home? Charity Never Faileth The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints VOLUME II "May the Relief Society Magazine enter upon its noble mission so firmly surrounded by the bulwarks of worthy and capable endeavor and enduring truth that its career may be successful and glorious." A F. Smith. Published by the General Board of the Relief Society Room 29 Bishop's 'Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Editor Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Assistant Manager 1915  timer 357 Madonna and Child, The 520 537 Crochero, Augusta Joyce. 301 235, 279, 329, 365, 409, 454, 493, Current Topics....35, IZ, 150, 182 Mansion House, Nauvoo 94 Masonic Lodge, Nauvoo 90 240, 285, 322, 371, 419, 462, 502, 541 Dressmaking at Home 105 Medal Presented to the Relief Early Development of Textile Society Art... 189, 266, 198, 242 Model Home 476 37,79, 159 198 481 Editorial: Model Home Kitchen 336, 375. 420, 464, 512, 545 300 242, 290, Model Relief Society Hall Nurse School of 1911 318 Genealogy... . 23,' 67, 154, 239, 287 of the Genealogical Genealogical Convention at the 257 Officials Fair Society of Utah 388 Plan of Relief Society Hall Genesis of the Relief Society 101 Give Us this Day Our Daily No. 1 313 Bread xoi Pioneer Midwives 349 HO, 327 Good Health Portrait, Relief Society Presidency in the Relief Society 5 Grain Saving Portrait Relief Society General and Sentiments J 6,7,8,9,10,11 12 Greetings Board... 39, 81 160 2(y Guide Lessons. Portrait, Elizabeth Ann Whitney246, 293, 338, 423, 466, 514, 548, Eliza R. Snow and Emmeline B. Wells Health Department 274 46 304 Her Vacation Relief Society Hall, 5th Ward, Stake Provo 125 History of the Weber Relief Society 217 Relief Society Hall, Parowan. 131 His Wife's Talents 447,486 Representative Women Physicians 343 Home Department 312. 364 Reverse Side of Medal Pre Home Gardening for Women represented to Relief Society