STATEHOOD DISCUSSED.
				----------
	RICHFIELD SPRINGS, N. Y. Aug. 28, 1887.
EDITOR DESERET NEWS:
	I concur in every word of your admirable reply
to the Chicago Times on the question whether
Utah now has a republican form of government,
which I had the pleasure of reading in your paper
of the 23rd inst. Perhaps I can supplement what
you have said by explaining that while it is true
that every Territory is under the government of
Congress so long as it is a Territory, and that the
Federal Government is a republican form of
Government, yet it is not in accordance with the
trust which the Constitution of the United States
devolved on Congress, for the Federal Govern-
ment in any case to prolong indefinitely the Terri-
torial condition. The subject of the relations of
the Territories to the Federal Government is not
new to me.
	I had occasion to investigate it thirty years ago,
when I took part in the last argument in the Dred
Scott case before the Supreme Court of the
United States. From that day to this I have al-
ways understood that the purpose with which the
Federal Constitution conferred on Congress the
power to create Territorial Governments in any
region of country belonging to the United States,
however acquired, as well as to manage and dis-
pose of the public lands, was to form such com-
munities into States and admit them into the Union;
and that this power was not bestowed as a means
of indefinitely prolonging the Territorial condi-
tion, and keeping open a field for Federal patron-
age and power. I do not suppose that at the
present day there can be found anywhere in this
country a well informed constitutitional lawyer,
who does not regard Congress as clothed with a
trust to bring every Territory into the Union as a
State as soon as its inhabitants desire it, and they
have the requisite numbers and resources to sus-
tain a State government of the republican form.
What shall be considered a sufficient population
has varied in different cases; but in the case of
Utah there cannot be the slightest question of a
sufficiency of population or resources. There is
no dependency of the United States that has a
larger population than Utah excepting the District
of Columbia.
	What then is the obstacle, or the pretended ob-
stacle to your admission into the Union as a
State?
	If there had never been any polygamy in Utah
you would have been made a State long ago. But
now, the guarantees which your proposed constitu-
tion offers, whereby it will be made certain that
polygamy will not be a practicable social relation
in the New State, ought to be satisfactory to the
whole country. I wish to convey to your people
who know me, my unqualified conviction that it is
perfectly competent for a new State, when it enters
the Union, to make a compact with the United
States, limiting the State's sovereignty in certain
respects, as the proposed constitution for Utah, by
a compact therein contained, limits the pardoning
power and the power of amending the constitu-
tion in the matter of polygamy; certain writers in
different parts of the country have very foolishly
asserted that the Mormons of Utah are trying to
play a “trick,” and that when the State has been
admitted the Constitutional inhibition of polygamy
will be repealed! These persons do not see that
any repeal or change of those provisions is made
by the Constitution itself entirely impossible with-
out the consent of Congress. This would be a
good and valid compact between the people of
Utah and the people of the United States, after it
has taken effect, and it ought to satisfy reasonable
men. The Federal Constitution itself contains
many such compacts. It lays prohibitions upon
the States which diminish what would otherwise
be the scope of their sovereignties. If a State
were to do one of the things which are thus pro-
hibited, the Federal government could easily find
means to prevent individuals from availing them-
selves of the benefits of such a breach of the
compact which every State in the Union has made
with the United States by accepting and ratifying
the Federal Constitution. If your proposed con-
stitution shall become the fundamental law of the
State of Utah, not only will all motive and tempta-
tion to contract plural marriages be extinguished,
but such marriages will be rendered legally im-
practicable, and must remain so, unless the Con-
gress of the United States should release the State
from the compact.
	What, then, will the people of Utah gain by be-
ing admitted into the Union under this proposed
constitution? First, the whole subject of poly-
gamy will be withdrawn from the legislation of
Congress, and that relation or condition of social
life will be placed under the ban of a safe and
valid compact between the people of Utah and
the people of the United States, or to express it
differently, but with the same meaning, it will be
placed under a solemn compact between the State
sovereignty and the sovereignty that is established
by the Federal Constitution. Secondly, you will
gain a republican form of government, which no
Territory has or can have in the proper sense of
that description; for as you very justly say Terri-
torial government is not self-government by the
people of any Territory that the United States
possesses.
	There is a very great amount of popular preju-
dice and ignorance prevailing through the country,
against which you have to contend. I am often
amazed to see how everything relating to the re-
ligious beliefs and practices of the Mormons is
misrepresented in journals that ought to know
better. But the public mind is becoming slowly
enlightened on this subject, and by the assembling
of the Congress I hope to see the way smoothed
for those public men who will have to act on this
question of your admission, by enabling their con-
stituents to view that question as they ought. Let
not your people be discouraged; and I pray you,
Mr. Editor, to continue to combat error and so-
phistry in the forcible, spirited and dignified way
in which you have hitherto encountered them.
	With the best wishes for the prosperity and
happiness of all your people, Mormons and Gen-
tiles alike, I am,
				Yours sincerely,
