WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
    SEVENTY-TWO MORMONS TO BE
	 		   TRIED.
Seventy-two Mormons are to be tried! Tried
for what? Have they injured any one? Is there
any destruction in their path?  Who has suffered
through their offences? Woman has been pro-
tected from insult and injury! The sacred
rights of wife and mother extended, and
such protection given her as in no other part of
America! These men are not being tried for sin;
no! Not for falsehood, fraud or deception in any
way! Then for what is our thrifty Territory hunted
through, and our best men incarcerated, robbed
by fines and vexed by costs of suit, while wives
are left in sorrow and trouble, and children to be
scattered, with only the protection of heaven?
Perhaps they think the ship Zion has run aground,
and that there is nothing to do but to send these
pretended protectors of liberty, like eagles with
talons sharpened, and fasten upon these unpro-
tected women and children to destroy them as a
"slaughter of innocents."
	Our government does not send its representa-
tives here to inquire carefully into our real condi-
tion, and to know if we are the people we are re-
presented to be! Are there not men in high
places in the world who are of doubtful integrity?
Are they all honest? Does not the world need a
reform, beginning in the hearts of husbands and
wives, to honor and be true to themselves and the
sacred  trusts imposed upon them as parents, in
keeping covenants and obligations? What if the
ship of state should stop on its cruise to Utah
and see if all is safe and sound between here and
Washington?
	We are not perfect, but our principles are, and
would save any family, town, country or nation
from crime or sin, if adhered to. "Mormonism," as
it is called, is a star of Bethlehem, a forerunner of
great events if known and understood; and it has
met with the same opposition as He whose coming
was heralded by that wonderful "star in the East."
It has done wonders already. For instance, the
whole United States has joined with one accord,
"Away with the ship Zion."
	Utah is no disgrace, with its lovely homes,
honestly labored for, with God's special care over
those who have subdued the desert places, digging
for thousands of miles ditches to irrigate the fields
and the trees, and to provide drink for the flocks
and herds. Now, through persecution, how
crippled are the efforts, taking away the business
men, the bone and sinew that wrought, as well as
the brains that planned and prompted. Seventy-
two men to be tried for no crime, for no guilt.
Will the God, who rules the universe, and who
holds the destiny of nations in His hands, close
His ears to the prayers of the wives and children
of the innocent men who are condemned unjustly?
Almost 300 have already been incarcerated; those
that have served their term in prison, some have
been enfeebled through it; and for what are they
sentenced? For murder? No! for the very op-
posite; for producing life, and sustaining it nobly;
for truly honoring wives and establishing homes.
[column 2]
Not one of these men, no, not a Latter-day Saint
in fellowship in the whole Church has a woman
(not a wife), as the world calls it; no, not one, but
wives! It is for wives and children, and for tak-
ing care of them and providing homes for all of
them. No people now on the earth are so happy,
pure, free, virtuous, upright and brave, honoring
and fearing God with praise and thanksgiving in
their hearts, as true Latter-day Saints, good men,
loved and honored wives, and protected in their
homes.
	This despised people are in the possession of
principles, thst the world might be truly proud to
acknowledge and live by. The true Saint has
confidence in himself, in his God and in his
brethren, and they have more in each other than
other people, who know not God. Our nation has
acted without a knowledge of the truth. There
are, undoubtedly, many good and noble souls, who
do not wish to inflict cruelty upon the innocent,
and who would shrink from participating in it;
but as surely as the sun ever shone this nation is
now sanctioning something barbarous and inhu-
man, and they little dream of the consequences.
Seventy-two Mormons under indictment to be
tried, and what for? For making a country and
peopling it—too honorable to insult a woman or
to cause her cheek to burn with shame, but offer-
ing her marriage, with all its sacred ties and rela-
tions; and for this our nation is frightened out of
countenance. What if our enemies should run
the ship of state ashore, while the ship Zion rides
the waves proudly, her banners floating aloft,
 that all the world may see?
