NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Nellie Grant Sartoris and one of her
children have arrived in this country for a
visit.

	Queen Carola, of Saxony, has established a
free kindergarten for the benefit of children of
poor laborers on her estate, Sibyllenot, where
she annually spends part of the summer.

	The author of “John Halifax, gentleman"
(Mrs. Craik), well presents in the Forum for
September, a woman’s estimate of the distinc-
tive mental and moral characteristics of men. 

	Denver, Col., is to have a college for women,
modelled after Wellesley and Vassar. The
“Ladies’ College Society," which has the mat-
ter in charge, is to be incorporated, and will
raise $750,000 in real estate and cash.

	Women, according to W. T. F. Donald, a
prominent business man of Atchison, Kan.,
have revolutionized the affairs of that State,
and made it one to be proud of. He thinks
the next decade will see women voting in every
State in the Union.—Pittsburg Despatch.

	Mrs. Dr. Ellis, an American lady, is physician
to the Queen of Corea. She has apartments
in the royal palace at Seoul, and receives a
yearly salary which is equal to eighteen
thousand dollars. She is expected to visit the
queen daily, and remains in call when Her
Majesty is indisposed.

	Helen S. Abbott, of Philadelphia, has been
elected a member of the Philosophical Society
in that city, of which Benjamin Franklin was
one of the fouuders. Only six women have
been eleeted during the one hundred and
twenty years of the society’s existence. The
first lady was Franklin’s friend, the Princess
Dashkoff. The others were Mrs. Mary Somer-
ville, Maria Mitchell, Mrs. Agassiz, and Mrs.
Carl Seiler, of Philadelphia, author of “The
Voice and singing." Miss Abbott is admitted
for what she has done in analytical chemistry.
—Ex.

	The apostles of woman should not fail to
notice that the leading reviews in the London
Athenœum of July 30 are devoted to books
done by women, namely: Miss Kate Norgate’s

[column 2]
"England Under the Angevin Kings,” which
is voted “the standard history of England in
the twelfth century,” Desire Charnay’s "An-
cient Cities of the New World," translated by
J. Gonino and Helen S. Conaut, and Miss
Alma Strettell’s translation of “Spanish and
Italian Folk-Songs, whose work receives en-
thusiastic praise. The works of Miss Norgate
and Miss Strettell are published by Macmillan
& Co.—Boston Beacon.

	Women are acquiring recognition in quarters
where one would least expect it. A cardinal
of the Church of Rome has been in consulta-
tion with the congregation of missionaries at
Brussels concerning the establishment of a
seminary for the education of women to be sent
to preach the Gospel in the French possessions
in Africa. The cardinal expressed his convic-
tion that women were better fitted than men to
convert the African youth. From St. Peters-
burg comes word that the minister of the inte-
rior has submitted to the Imperial Council a
project for the establishment of a university, to
be managed on the plan of that at Heidelberg,
where women may be taught the higher sciences,
including medicine.—Ex.

	Mrs. Hancock says that once, when the
General felt called upon to entertain half a
dozen Sioux chieftains, she helped him in his
task by playing the piano for them. The music
evidently had power to please, if not to“soothe
the savage,” for immediately negotiations com-
menced, through an interpreter, to purchase
the "big captain’s squaw," along with the
"music table.” Beads, robes and blankets
were first offered for the exchange. When the
“big captain” rejected these, supposing the in-
ducements were not sufficient, they added
ponies to an increased number of robes and
trinkets of all kinds. Their indignation and
dissatisfaction were apparent, and quickly
made evident by their leaving the house in
Indian file, without a glance here or there,
seeming deaf to the interpreter’s appeals to re-
turn—Ex.

	I have brought Thomas Jefferson up to think
that it was just as bad for him to listen to a
bad story or a song as for a girl, or worse, for
he had more strength to run away, and that it
was a disgrace for him to talk or listen to any
stuff that he would be ashamed to have Tirzah
Ann or me to hear.- I have brought him up
to think that manliness did’nt consist in hav-
ing a cigar in his mouth, and his hat on one
side, and swearin’ and slang phrases, and a
knowledge of questionable amusements, but in
layin’ hold of every duty that comes to him,
with a brave heart and cheerful face; and
helpin’ to right the wrong and protect the weak,
and makin’ the most and the best of the mind
and soul God had given him. In short, I
have brought him up to think that purity and
virtue are both feminine and masculine, and
that God’s angel’s are not necessarily all she
ones.
	SAMANTHA ALLEN, in Southern Cultivator.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending Aug. 9, 1887, as follows:
	Anne C. Spencer, East Greenwich, R. I.,
Toilet Case.
	Sarah W. Trabue, Girard, Ill., Baling
Press.


