SCHOOL.
				------------
	School, in the usual acceptation of the term, is
an institution for teaching, and for developing the
faculties of the mind by means of books etc., in
the hands of those qualified to instruct, according
to the rules laid down by the author.
	And yet, we might go further and say, the whole
world itself is one vast school for obtaining knowl-
edge and understanding, even from the cradle
to the  grave, for we are continually reaching out
and grasping after information upon some subject
or other, at least it is so with every intelligent be-
ing.
	The little child will count one, two, three, before
it ever knows the value of numbers or their uses,
and ask all kinds of questions as soon as they
learn to talk. At no period in our lives do we
cease to learn unless old age deprives us of the fac-
ulties of our minds.
	In the last century wonderful improvements have
been made, in regard to establishing and improv-
ing the system of schools; and the children of
this age possess many very superior advantages
which were denied their predecessors; the facili-
ties for instruction being now so simplified and
varied, that any one possessed of the least mental
capacity, can hardly fail to obtain a common edu-
cation.
	In some periods it has been considered unneces-
sary, and entirely out of place for common people
to learn even the first rudiments of their own
language; and even among the higher classes it
was only considered really essential for the
Priests.
	The diffusion of knowledge, through the medi-
um of schools, has now become general in all en-
lightened countries; there are many places par-
ticularly noted for their excellent institutions of
learning, and I hope some day, not far distant, to
see Utah take a prominent place among the na-
tions in this respect.
	There are many different varieties of schools,
Dancing, Fencing, Horsemanship, and many other
accomplishments are taught in schools for this ex-
press purpose.


Schools are in and of themselves, among the
greatest blessings we enjoy. Volumes might be
written upon the subject to explain it in all,its
bearings and it would still be inexhaustible.
	The subject is one of vital importance to us all,
but I am not capable of bringing out any ideas
which will be worthy of note although I have
the greatest and most profound respect for all In-
stitutions for the dissemination of knowledge up-
on the earth.
						EMMA WELLS.
	January 14, 1874.


