NECESSITY OF PRAYER.

	If we could realize the necessity of prayer,
we would never neglect to offer up our thanks
and gratitude morning and evening for the
multitude of blessings that we receive. We
cannot feel that it lessens our self-respect to
bow in humility to our Heavenly Father.
Would we not, if we wished to ask a favor of
a well respected friend, approach them with
courtesy, and prefer our request in well chosen
words? And when they had kindly granted
the favor would it not be good manners to ex-
press our appreciation in a few appropriate ex-
pressions? Then, if we do not feel this humili-
ating, why should we to bow on our bended
knees to our Heavenly Father, and express
our  thanks and gratitude in language that
seems most suitable to each one of us, and
earnestly beseech Him to guide and guard us
every day and hour of our lives.
	The character and attributes of the God we
believe in, are beautiful and sublime; but in a
short article I can only touch upon some that
appeal most strongly to my feelings. I have
always felt a reverence and respect for His
greatness, but a love for His goodness. And
to think that He loves each one of us, with all
our faults, no matter how poor or unfortunate
we may be. He will hear our prayers, no
matter where we are, or what we are. And
He will sustain us through every trial that He
in His wisdom and mercy sees necessary for us
to pass through, in order to prove our true
worth.
	Then let us not feel that we weary Him with
our constant pleading, but ask Him to teach
us how to pray, that we may not ask for any-
thing that would not be for our welfare or the
welfare of those for whom we pray.
	And may we be more earnest in our supplica-
tions, that by our zeal and His ever watchful
care, we may be enabled to overcome the
temptations that we are bound to be surrounded
with, for we must have opportunities of choos-
ing good from evil. Then may we all live so
faithful, and strive to perform our little every-
day duties so well, that we may be fortified
and strengthened for the greater ones as they
come along.
	Hoping that we may all remain true through
every test and trial, is the earnest prayer of a
member of the Improvement Association,
					MARY E. L. NEFF.
	Nephi.


The Union-Signal says: “The University of
Pennsylvania is the first of State institutions
to forbid the use of tobacco to its students.”
But Oberlin College did this fifty years ago.


