		MINUTES BY SISTER C. V. SMITH.

	On Wednesday last, Sept. 7th, the annual
gathering in honor of Sister P. S. Kimball
met at her residence, in the 16th Ward, to
celebrate the 77th birthday of that venerable
and respected lady. About forty of the sisters
from different parts of the city and others
from the surrounding settlements, assembled
about noon, and sat down to a table loaded
with all the delicacies of the season. After
dinner the gathering took the form of a meet-
ing, aud Aunt Presendia was introduced
and requested to occupy a handsome plush
covered easy chair, which was presented to her
as a substantial token of esteem oy her sisters
and friends. After singing, “We thank Thee,
O God, for a Prophet,” prayer was offered by
Sister Young.)
	Sister Presendia then arose and thanked the
sisters for their presence, and for the beautiful


token of their affection and esteem, and felt to
praise God for all His blessings and the love
and good will of the sisters, and prayed that
all might be blessed and spared to meet again
on a similar occasion.
	Some selections were read, and then Sister
Fowler said she was glad to be present on this
occasion, and was proud of Sister Kimball, and
felt that she had her love and respect. Sister
Savage congratulated Sister Kimball on at-
taining her 77th birthday. Sister Polly
Howard made a few remarks. Sister Coon
said she thought she was the oldest sister
present, and she felt pleased to see so many
gathered together to honor Sister Kimball.
Sister Stewart of Draper said she felt proud to
be one with the sisters on this occasion, and
hoped she would be enabled to follow Sister
Kimball's example, and be a blessing to her
generation. Sister Airmett felt to pray that
she might be steadfast in this work and be
blest with all the faithful. Sister Bathsheba
Smith expressed her pleasure at being present'
and felt to bless Sister Kimball with all the
power and authority she possessed, and hoped
she would live long to be useful to those who
needed her, and that her blessings might be
multiplied with her years. Sister Toone felt to
bless all present, and expressed the same wishes
for Sister Kimball's health and happiness.
Sister Dyer was glad to meet with the sisters,
and felt that the Spirit of God was present
in our midst. Sisters Sanders, Jeffs and Becker
then expressed their feelings of good will.
Sister McAllister said she had never met with
a better spirit or heard more beautiful senti-
ments than those uttered by the sisters, and
she hoped that all would be blessed and have
strength to overcome all the difficulties and
trials that presented themselves, from within
as well as from without. Sister Allsop felt to
endorse all that the sisters had said, and felt to
stand by every doctrine and principle of our
faith. Sister Watmough said she felt to bless
Sister Kimball, who had been her counselor
and friend for many years. Sister McClain
felt to bless all the sisters, and hoped that Sis-
ter Kimball would live many years to meet
with the sisters on her birthday. Sister Dyer
then spoke in tongues, and the interpretation
was given by Sister Young. Singing, "The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning."
	Sister Maggie Cahoon said a few words, and
Sister Fenemore said she felt glad to be able
to meet with the sisters on this occasion; said
she thought if we could only lift the veil we
would see the angels present with us. Hoped
that all would enjoy the Spirit of God, that we
might all go on as Sister Kimball had done, and
be faithful as she had been. Sister Davis of
South Cottonwood said though all had not
come from her ward that she expected to see,
still she knew that all felt good to Sister Kim-
ball, and joined in all the blessings and affec-
tion manifested by the sisters. Sister Roberts
said she felt good to be here. Sister L G.
Richards said she felt to bless Sister Kimball,
and pray that she might be long spared to
bless the sisters. Sister Grieves said she felt
that these meetings were like drops of dew to
a thirsty soul. Felt to ask God to give a bless-
ing to every one that came to this habitation
for that purpose, and that God would keep us
faithful, that we may return and see our Father's 
face in heaven.
	Sister Cecelia Sharp then recited a piece,
entitled, "Guilty, or not Guilty."
	Sister Gray said she had attended thirteen
anniversaries of Sister Kimball’s birthday, and
she hoped she would be spared to attend as
many more. Sister Maggie Sharp said she
thought Sister Kimball looked younger instead
of older, and hoped she would live long to en-
joy every blessing that had been promised her.
Sister R. Daynes and Sister Lyons expressed
similar sentiments. Sister Kittle said she felt
grateful for the privilege of being present; felt
to love Sister Kimball for her work’s sake.
Prayed that she might be able to bring up her
children in the fear of the Lord, and that we
might all be faithful in this kingdom. Sister
Johnson said she felt that we had had a good
time, and hoped that such meetings may be re-
newed for many years. Sister Minnie Gray
felt that all had been blessed in their visit here.
	Sister E. B. Ferguson said she felt that these
birthday gatherings grew better and better
every year. It was a red letter day in the
year, for the Spirit of God and the angels were
here. How many have been blessed in this
house! Every one that comes here says,
"What a holy place; how peaceful and how
sacred the influence!" Felt that the prayers
of the sisters would be answered, and that
Aunt Presendia would be blessed and spared
for yet many years to do good. Hoped that
Sister Kimball would use the easy chair, and
not spare it, for if it was worn out before the
next birthday the sisters would re-cover it.
	Sister Young said that all blessings were
conditional upon our faithfulness, and Sister
Presendia had been faithful through trials,
that would have tried the utmost recesses of
any human heart. The Prophet knew of her
faithfulness, and saw by a revelation, when he
was in Liberty Jail, that she was to be his wife,
and the position that belonged to her.
	(Sister McClain then blessed the sisters in
tongues, which was interpreted by Sister
Young.)
	Sister Woodmansee said although she came
late, she felt blest already in hearing Sister
McClain bless the sisters in tongues. She felt
one with the sisters in blessing Sister Presendia,
and hoped the Lord would spare her life, that
she might continue to be a blessing to others,
and that we might all find her to be a very
present help in time of trouble.
	Sister Presendia then blessed the sisters in
tongues, interpreted by Sister Young. She said,
"If your eyes could be opened to see the bless-
ings that God has in store for His faithful
children, we could hardly believe ourselves.
Be comforted, my sisters, for the Lord hath
many blessings in store for those who are faith-
ful. Then we shall be united to our husbands
and children, and see those who have been
faithful and overcome through much tribula-
tion."
	Mother Coon then spoke in tongues, which
was interpreted by Sister Young.
The meeting closed with singing, "Lord, dis-
miss us with Thy blessing," and prayer by Sis-
ter Emma Toone.
	The following poem way read by Sister Lula
Greene Richards, as also the poem by Sister
E. R. S. S., entitled, "Evening Thoughts," and
"Our Twenty-Fourth," by Hope.
			TO SISTER P. L. KIMBALL,
			ON HER 77TH BIRTHDAY.
			Thy three-score years and ten are past,
			The term to man allotted,
		Yet thou art hale and hearty still,
			Though seven more are added.

		Thy intellect is bright and strong,
			Thy woman's heart so warm,
		That all the graces round thee throng,
			Acknowledging the charm.

		Thou art not as the iceberg, cold,
			Imposing, stately, grand;
		But like the glorious sunbeam, 
			That warms the grateful land.
	
		That wakes the flowers to beauty,
			And with perfume fills the air,
		Shedding hope, and faith, and life, and love,
			And gladness everywhere.

		The sick and chastened seek for thee,
			Not ever seek in vain:
		Thou lov'st to soothe the stricken heart,
			And make the reason plain,
	
		To justify our Father's ways,
			Though wrapt in mystery,
		And prove it is in love He slays,
			For this is given thee.

		No drone art thou in the human hive,
			No cumberer of the ground,
		But patient beacon to thy sex,
			And ever waiting found.

		Then live, and love thy patron be,
			And peace ’mid surging strife,
		Till time yields to Eternity,
			And death is lost in life.
										C. V. SMITH.
S. L. City, Sept. 7, 1887.


