R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
			---------
		WEBER STAKE.
	The Thirty-third Conference of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of the Weber Stake of Zion was held
in the Ogden Tabernacle, Sept. 9th, 1887.
After the usual opening exercises, prayer being
offered by Elder R. Ballantyne, the statistical
and financial reports of the several Associations
were read.
	Prest. Sarah Herrick expressed herself as
being much pleased with such a good showing
of the Associations as the reports represented,
and the large attendance at conference to-day
was an evidence of the interest taken by the
young ladies of Zion in the duties of their re-
ligion. She felt the need of the Holy Spirit
in our weakness to assist us in the good work,
and invoked the blessing of the Lord upon all
present, especially upon the speakers, that rich
instruction and counsel might be imparted on
this occasion.
	Coun. E. Y. Stanford said, "The reports
submitted give evidence of improvement in
the Associations throughout this Stake, and
our recent visits among many of them have
satisfied us that the young sisters are working
faithfully in helping to build up the kingdom
of God," and she would exhort them to con-
tinued faithfulness, and even greater diligence
to obtain the blessings designed to be conferred
through these organizations.
	Sister Jane S. Richards remarked, "It is not
the talking we do that will take us to heaven,
but the good works we perform here upon the
earth. We have been told to live pure, up-
right lives. This is our duty, and we should
be careful to obey all good counsels coming
from those over us, especially those of your
parents, who can train you in the knowledge
of God and direct you to exaltation and
glory."
	Coun. Charles F. Middleton said, "In look-
ing over the congregation in this house yester-
day (the Relief Society Conference), I saw
elderly ladies, who had passed through a great
deal of experience in the Church, but who had
not had the privilege that you enjoy of meeting
in their youth in associations of this character,
and receive instructions as you are doing to-
day, from those appointed to preside over you.
There is a great work and great responsibility
resting upon the youth of Zion, both male and
female. You should be careful of the com-
pany you keep, and select and prefer as much
as possible the society of those brought up un-
der the influence of the Improvement Associa-
tions, who lead exemplary lives."
	Sister Emily Shurtliff was indeed pleased to
see so many young ladies present, and taking
such deep interest in these societies. "We
should all be earnest, diligent workers, and
prepare ourselves, by the study of Church
literature; to give a reason for the hope within
us."
	Benediction was then pronounced by Elder
Wm. H. Wright.
	At 2 p.m. conference resumed its session,
prayer being offered by Bro. J. Stanford.
	Sister R. Canfield gave an excellent report
of the 5th Ward Association. This ward had
only been recently organized, through the 4th
Bishop's Ward having been divided into two
wards.
	Coun. R. E. Monch was very pleased to
meet in conference this afternoon. "Among
our many duties we should guard against tale-
bearing. If we hear anything bad about a
person, do not spread it so as to make it worse,
but cultivate the spirit of charity, and treat
everyone kindly, seeking for the Spirit of the
Lord, which guides in the paths of truth and
righteousness."
	Elder Joseph Stanford said, "These Associa-
tions, I am happy to say, are proving a great
benefit to the young people of Zion, but from
the reports I think that the average attendance
at meetings should be increased. It should
be the aim of all to make them attractive. In
rendering the exercises, the motto should be
improvement. Readings, recitations, essays,
etc., should be delivered in a strength of voice
that all can hear; there is nothing so unpleas-
ant, and which detracts so much from a meet-
ing, as a failure to hear the speakers. Regard
should also be paid to punctuation and rhetoric,
that the proper sense and meaning of what is
read or delivered may be conveyed with inter-
esting and edifying effect. Exercises, when
necessary, should be criticised, with a view to
the correction of errors. Those who preside


should, in the discharge of this duty, breathe
the influence of love and kindness, and cor-
rections should be received in the same spirit.
The works you read and study for the most
part are of inspirational origin; they contain
divine truths, and the children of Zion have to
become proficient in all that will make them
morally and intellectually great and powerful.
We should be ambitious to acquire the com-
mand of good language, for under divine
priesthood and blessing, perfect language, in
fact all the arts, sciences, professions, and all
that there is good and great in nature, will be
made subservient to the glory of God and the
happification and blessing of the humble and
obedient of the human race."
	Sister Monch spoke in tongues, and Sister
Russell gave the interpretation, the purport of
which was, that the Saints were to arouse
themselves—"awake, awake, to righteousness!"
and blessing and joy and power awaited them.
An holy influence pervaded the hearts of all.
	The following presidents reported their socie-
ties, bore their testimonies and felt blessed in
being present to enjoy the good influence and
valuable teachings manifested by the speakers:
M. A. Piley, Second Ward, Sarah A. Hart,
West Weber, Annie Taylor, Mound Fort,
Annie Belnap, Fourth Ward, Maria Russell,
Riverdale, M Ferrin, Eden.
	Elder Richard Ballantyne had greatly en-
joyed the meeting; the instructions were valu-
able, and we should make them available to
our benefit by a practice of them. He ex-
horted all to be obedient to the commandments
of God, and in an earnest, feeling manner in-
voked the blessing of the Almighty upon the
daughters of Israel.
	Prest. Sarah Herrick in a few choice remarks
expressed deep satisfaction of feeling for the
good spirit manifest during the meetings of
of this conference, and an appreciation of the
instructions given, and after referring to some
items of business, announced the adjournment
of the conference for three months. Singing,
"School thy feelings," etc. Benediction by
Bro. McIntyre.
			M. CHAMBERS, Sec. pro tem.


