BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. MARY ANN
			YOUNG
	Soon after the Saints had reached Nauvoo
(then called Commerce) Brigham Young was
called on his first mission to England. At
that time his family were ill with fever and
ague, and his wife had been very recently cou-
fined. Mrs. Young’s sufferings then seemed to
have reached the climax, and in the midst of
sickness and poverty, having been deprived of
every comfort of a temporal nature calculated
to make life pleasant or desirable, she was
called to part with her husband and compan-
ion, and again to be left alone, unaided, except
by Him who hears the raven’s cry. Mrs. Young
trusted in God and exercised that faith which
none but a Saint can comprehend. When Mr.
Young left home their babe, Alice, was ten
days old. She subsequently became the wife

of Hon. H. B. Clawson, and died at St. George
in Dec., 1874.
	The courage and heroism of Mrs. Young at
that time are worthy of all praise. Like a
woman of God, she said to her husband, as she
had always been in the habit of doing when
duty called him in the darkest hour, “Go and
fill your mission, and the Lord will bless you,
and I will do the best I can for myself and the
children.” With the true devotion of a lov-
ing and faithful wife, Mrs. Young, in the midst
of her own trials, sympathized deeply with her
husband, who was worn out with fatigue and
exposure, almost beyond the endurance of even
man to bear, and had been for sometime ill,
and at the time of his departure for England
was not able to walk even a short distance.
They were then residing at Montrose, on the
west side of the Mississippi River, opposite
Nauvoo.
	Mrs. Young was often compelled to cross the
river with her babe (leaving her little ones in
charge of the eldest girl) to obtain such things
as were necessary for their sustenance. These
journeys were frequently made in a small skiff,
and on some occasions in storms that would be
calculated to frighten women of ordinary
courage; but Mrs. Young was undaunted, and
she has passed through trials in thousands of
instances, under which it would seem women
of fine nervous temperaments such as hers,
must have succumbed. These hardships and
vicissitudes have given her such shocks as have
undermined her health, and although she is
living now (at this present writing, but since
deceased), and is in full possession of her
physical and mental faculties, yet the pressure
and strain has been such as only those who trust
in God could possibly endure.
	After Brigham Young's return from England,
he removed his family to Nauvoo, and there
Mrs. Young enjoyed a short respite from the
extreme hardships which had marked her
married life. In 1842 Mrs. Young’s daughter,
Luna, was born, her only daughter now living;
she is the wife of Hon. George Thatcher, and
the mother of ten children.
	October, 1844, her youngest son, John W.,
was born; he was the first male child born after
the revelation upon celestial marriage had been
given, and his parents had entered into this
holy order of matrimony. Mrs. Young’s testi-
mony in regard to the doctrine of the Latter-
day Saints is strong and powerful. She says
that she knows Joseph Smith was a prophet of
God, and that Brigham Young is his rightful
successor, by testimony upon testimony of the
fulfillment of prophecies uttered by these lead-
ers of the people. She says, “I know it for
myself, and I bear this testimony to all the
world, that this is the everlasting Gospel, re-
vealed by the power of God’s inspiration and
the visitation of angels in the dispensations of
the fulness of times.” That the revelation
given to Joseph Smith upon “plural marriage,”
she received at first as “thus saith the Lord,”
as also every principle of faith and doctrine
revealed through Joseph Smith and Brigham
Young. Mrs. Young, through all her trials
and difficulties in sharing pioneer life with the
people of God, has never rebelled against any
principle, but has borne a heavy share of “the
heat and burden of the day.” In the exodus
from Nauvoo with her family of small children
in the dead of winter, she was ever cheerful
and buoyant, aiding and strengthening her hus-
band in the discharge of his arduous labors, by
her faith and courage. Mrs. Young is a woman
of great benevolence of character, and hospit-
able in the extreme. Her labors have ever
been to do good to the Saints and to minister to
those in need, especially to the widow and
fatherless. 
	With her own hands, during the first years of
the settlement here, she baked bread to dis-
tribute among the Indians. She had been
thoroughly disciplined in habits of industry in
her early life in New England, and could spin
and dye and oversee all that class of home-
work, as well as to perform much of it herself,
which she did, notwithstanding her many cares
and duties, both in her own household and as
a mother among a great body of people.
	During the time that Mr. Young was
Governor of Utah, Mrs. Young entertaiued
many strangers and people of rank and posi-
tion in the world, ever presiding as hostess
with that unassuming dignity which is charac-
teristic of true greatness. She is a woman
whom no changes of fortune or circumstances
could ever alter.
	She is fond of domestic retirement, and has
been for so many years compelled to meet
strangers, that now she feels the need of rest,
and in the bosom of her family, surrounded by
loving friends; she enjoys the luxury of a com-
fortable home, made pleasant by the dear faces
and loving presence of those who are ever ready
to minister to her wishes.
			To be Continued.


