EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	The subject of the Salt Lake Library has not
been editorially treated upon in the EXPONENT,
except in the first effort made to secure a Ward
Library. Its having taken this form, that of a
Stake, will secure to its members and the public
much greater advantages, and it will be of in-
creased benefit to the people. It will reach a
larger number of persons, and open up a new field,
comparatively, for obtaining knowledge. Organ-
ized effort is always more effectual, both individu-
ally and generally. Such a broad field for the
cultivation of intellect, as is now to be extended
through this avenue (the Salt Lake Stake circu-
lating library and reading room), cannot fail to
materially change the current of reading matter
and of thought with many, and impress and awaken
a wish and desire, that will be attainable, to get
reliable information on topics of the day and
times past and present, that will be of incalculable
value to the young student especially, and to those,
to whom the world of literature is just opening its
inner doors, or who are entering upon advanced
studies in the arts and sciences. 
	The first great prophet of this dispensation
said, in language not to be mistaken, get knowl-
edge from the best books. The Latter-day Saints
should certainly be the best informed of any peo-
ple on the face of the earth, but it is not expected
that knowledge will be gained without an effort on
the part of the individual. The saying, "There is
no excellence without labor," applies to reading
and studying, and digesting what is read and
studied, as well as to other departments of labor.
People who read for pastime, generally read very
light works, or if not, read in a very careless way;
but those who read to gain knowledge cannot be
too particular of the way in which they read,


otherwise they are as likely to become confused,
and get wrong impressions as they are to receive
real benefit. The selection of books is one of the
most important matters, for bad books are almost,
though perhaps not quite, equivalent to bad com-
panions. There are parents who do not trouble
much about the quality or kind of books their
children read, yet would be very careful about
their associates. In such a library as the "Stake
Library," there will be no danger in regard to the
character of the books, because it will be in the
hands of those, who are perfectly capable and
qualified to select, and it will be a great relief, no
doubt, to many who feel the necessity and im-
portance of the choice of books, to know that it
will be safe to draw them from there without any
examination of the works beforehand. Other
Stakes of Zion will probably adopt the some or a
similar course in the collection of books, and the
formation of a library, and in this way a great ad-
vancement will be made in useful and classical
knowledge and attainments.
	We wish this library the most unbounded suc-
cess, and consider it should receive the influence
of those who wish to see the youth of Zion attain
unto that higher development which will prepare
them for the exceeding great responsibility that
will certainly devolve upon them in the great
events that must transpire in these the last days.


