TALKS ABOUT SCRIPTURE.

	The Ten Commandments were given to the
Isrealites, descendants of Abram or Abraham,
through Moses, from Mount Sinai, in a desert
bearing the same name. As we know, the
Lord had delivered the Israelites from the
bondage of the Egyptians, who had become
their masters, through the influence of Joseph,
a descendant of Israel, exercised upon Pharaoh,
the King, previous to the seven years’ famine.
We have also read the interesting account of
the many plagues brought upon this same
mighty empire of Egypt, because of its wicked-
ness toward the enslaved Israelites. And how
many times the King, a descendant of the
same Pharaoh, refused to liberate the chosen
people of the Lord. No natural father could
be more watchful over the wants of his child-
ren than the Lord was over the necessities of
this people whom He had delivered from their
enemies, and afterward preserved from thirst
and starvation, which would have been inevit-
able so many times without His  kind and
fatherly assistance.
	The Bible tells us that some of their food,
called “manna,” was preserved for future
generations to see upon what sort of bread their
forefathers subsisted for the space of forty
years.—Exodus xvi, 32.
	Moses had taught the people during their
travels, and indeed before leaving Egypt, that
it was against the will of the Lord for them to
bow the knee and worship aught besides Him-
self. When in the desert of Sinai Moses com-
manded the people to clean and prepare them-
selves to worship the Lord their living God,
while he went up into the mount to receive
further instruction concerning the wanderings,
destination and government of the Lord’s peo-
ple. On his return, can the surprise and con-
stenation portrayed upon his countenance be
imagined, to find this favored people worship-
ping a golden calf, made from Egyptian jewelry?
We read that his feelings were so much wrought
upon that he allowed the stone tablets, upon
which were engraved the ten commandments,
to slip from his grasp, and they were broken,
so that new ones were hewn from another stone
to replace the fragments.
	The death of so great a number of their peo-
ple was a just, but terrible judgment of the
Lord, for this great and enormous sin of
worshipping idols and breaking His direct
word at the same time.	
	We have now upon the earth more than one
half of its inhabitants worshipping idols, in
the shape of animals, both living and imitated,
in wood, silver, gold, etc., the heavenly bodies,
as the sun, moon and stars, the elements, as
fire, water, wind, etc.,and the objects in nature,
and produced by nature, as the mountains, and
living persons set up as gods. One class
worships the devil, because, as they argue, the
Lord is all goodness, and can, or will not harm
them, while the devil is all evil, and they wish
to subdue his wicked passions by their entreat-
ies.								L. C.


