EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	As one of the weak handmaids of the Lord
I can no longer restrain my feelings, but must
give vent to my sentiments, and express my
gratitude to God before all the world, that I
live in this eventful age, when God has again
spoken from the heavens, and the light of day
is dawning upon woman, who has been trampled
under the foot of man for ages; when God in
His infinite mercy is restoring her to that level
for which she was created.
	I feel that every daughter of Zion should 
sing praises to Almighty God for restoring
such glad tidings. It is a very strong proof
 of the divinity of this great Latter-day work,
which we profess to believe in. Think of it, 
girls! think of it, mothers! Do we appreciate
the blessings and privileges we enjoy? The
world call us slaves and dupes, but where in 
all the broad land do women enjoy such free-
dom? Where are they looked upon by their
husbands as their equal, their counselor, if
you please, a helpmeet in very deed? Should
we not, then, educate ourselves to fill such a 
noble position honorably and acceptably before
God? It is a matter of deep reflection for
young women. Inquire of yourselves, what is
the object of your creation? There certainly
must have been a purpose in it. The Scriptures
tell us that, "God created man in His own 
image; male and female created He them." 
Why should woman be considered so far infe-
rior to man? Man has perverted the Gospel,


broken the law and changed the ordinances;
this is why they are.  How beautiful to con-
template the restitution of all things in these
the last days.  The Gospel breaks the fetters
wherewith woman is bound, takes her by the
hand and says, "Woman, know thyself."  The
women of Zion have a great and important 
work to do.  "Man is not without the woman,
nor woman without the man in the Lord."
	Before closing I wish to show my apprecia-
tion of such noble, God-fearing women as
Ruby Lamont, Lula Greene Richards and
others, who dare proclaim the word of God
amid such strong inclinations to follow fashion.
I heartily endorse every word they say, and
feel that there are many of the daughters of
Zion who would gladly accept their doctrine,
were it not for lack of moral courage to make
their first attempt.  But if the leaders in so-
ciety among the Latter-day Saints would ac-
cept and practice it, the rest would gladly
follow.  It is said that "example is better than 
precept."  I believe it true in this case.  How-
ever, I feel that the words of these intelligent
ladies are not lost, but are as bread cast upon
the waters, and will return after many days,
bringing its reward; and if my humble testi-
mony will add any encouragement to those who 
are laboring to elevate women, I will feel
amply paid for having endeavored to en-
courage.


