THE SALT LAKE STAKE LIBRARY.
				---------
	In compliance with a request made of me by the
Editor of this paper, I will briefly state the object
and what is being done in the matter of the forma-
tion of a library in Salt Lake City; also its Con-
stitution and By-laws.
	The object of the institution is to found a circu-
lating Library and Free Reading Room, where the
young, middle aged and elderly part of the com-
munity may find "nutriment" to feed their
minds, in the way of ecclesiastical, religious, bio-
graphical, historical and scientific works, etc.
	Especially is it designed to be an institution of
learning religious truths and moral philosophy.
To bring to bear such influences as will develop a
taste for learning, leading many to thus employ
their time in a way beneficial to themselves, and
they in turn be able to benefit others. It is also
designed to have FREE LECTURES given by our
best talent for the benefit of those who are dis-
posed to learn.
	To this end have books and money been dona-
ted to start the institution, and we are steadily re-
ceiving donations of books and money from differ-
ent parties, which is very gratifying. And from
now on, Bro. Joseph E. Mullett, of 19th Ward,
Librarian, will receive all books, and H. S. Hall,
of Valley House, Treasurer, will receive all
monies donated to the institution.
	It is expected to open the Reading Boom some
time in October.
	The following are Constitution and By-Laws:—
			CONSTITUTION.
				Preamble.
	We, the citizens of the Salt Lake Stake, and
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, desiring to establish a circulating
library and free reading room in said stake, do
adopt the following Constitution and By-laws for
the guidance of the same.
				SECTION I.
	The organization shall be known as the Salt
Lake Stake Circulating Library and free Reading
Room.
				SECTION II.
	The officers shall consist of a President, Vice
President, Secretary, Treasurer and Librarian.
				SECTION III.
	The President, Vice President, Secretary and
Treasurer with three others shall form the Board
of Directors.
				SECTION IV.
	The first election of the said officers shall be
held July 18, 1887, and they shall be elected
biennally thereafter.
				SECTION V.
				Duties of Officers
	It shall be the duty of the President to preside
over all the regular meetings of the Board of Di-
rectors, to call special meetings whenever nec-
essary, and to sign all orders on the Treasurer for
the payment of money.
	It shall be the duty of the Vice President to
perform all the duties of the President in the ab-
sence of the latter.
	It shall be the duty of the Board of Directors
to attend all meetings of the association and to
have general supervision over the affairs.
	It shall be the duty of the Secretary to attend
all meetings of the Board of Directors, to take
and record the minutes of the same, and to con-
duct all necessary correspondence under the
direction of the Board of Directors.
	It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to keep
a strict account of all means received and dis-
bursed, and he shall make no order for the pay-
ment of money except by order of the President.
	It shall be the duty of the Librarian to receive
and classify all books, to have general supervision
over letting the same out, and whenever necessity
requires it, he shall have the power, with the ap-
proval of the Board of Directors, of appointing
an assistant.
				SECTION VI.
	The President of the Church and his Counsel-
ors, the Twelve Apostles and their Counselors,
the President of the Salt Lake Stake and his
Counselors, and the Delegate to Congress from


Utah, shall be honorary members of the associa-
tion. 
              -----
  	BY-LAWS.
      	SECTION	I.
	ARTICLE I.—All Latter-day Saints and persons
properly recommended,all honorary and life mem-
-bers, and all subscribers have the privilege of
 drawing books from the Library.
				SECTION II.
	ARTICLE I.—The cost of life membership
shall be $10.00; annual subscription, $2.00; semi-
annual $1.00 and quarterly 50 cents.
	ARTICLE 2.—A receipt signed by the Librarian
will be given to each subscriber.
				SECTION III.
	ARTICLE I.—No member or subcriber will be
permitted to transfer his (or her) privilege to any
other person.
				SECTION IV.
	ARTICLE I.—Subscribers will be notified of the
expiration of their subscriptions, and unless it be
renewed within a reasonable time, they will for-
feit their right to draw books.
       SECTION V.
	ARTICLE I.-Persons not regular subscribers,
upon proper recommendation, will be allowed to
draw books upon deposit of the value of the
books or series, and payment for the use as thereof
at the rate of ten cents per week.
				SECTION VI.
	ARTICLE I.—A label is on the inside of each book,
stating how long the book can be kept; and for
day kept over the specified time the holder will be
subject to a fine of ten cents.
				SECTION VII.
	ARTICLE 2.—Books marked "Reference” will
not be allowed to be taken from the library, and
any person violating this rule shall pay a fine of
$3.00.
				SECTION VIII.
	ARTICLE 2—Upon a written application before
expiration of the prescribed time a book may be
issued the second time; but no book
will be issued the third time to the same per-
sons. 
				SECTION IX.
	ARTICLE I.—Persons desirous of drawing
books, who reside outside of this Stake, may re-
tain books double the regular length of time np-
on proper recommendation.
				SECTION X.
	ARTICLE I—The librarian will be the only per-
son permitted to take books from or place them
upon the shelves.
				SECTION XI.
	ARTICLE I.—If a volume be defaced, injured or
lost, the owner must pay the value of the book.
If a whole set the holder will be responsible for
their replacement.
				SECTION XII.
	ARTICLE I.—A registry book will be kept at the
library, where the name of every person drawing
books will be kept.
				SECTION XII.
	ARTICLE I.—Periodicals and papers will be
kept on file and any person mutilating or ruining
them will be fined $3.00.
				SECTION XIV.
	ARTICLE I.—All fines and penalties herein pro-
vided for shall be strictly enforced, and any per-
son refusing to pay such fines, will lose all rights
of drawing books until fines are paid.
				SECTION XV.		
ARTICLE I.—Any rule or regulation necessary,
any amendment, or any change in constitution
and by-laws, may be made at any regular meet-
ng of the board of directors, by and with the con-
sent of a three-fourth majority vote of the dele-
agates present from the wards.
				SECTION XVI.
	ARTICLE I.—The Librarian shall keep a list of
the books called for, which are not in the Library,
the author and the subscriber and the dates called
for, and by whom; and such books shall, when
the funds will permit, be purchased and placed in
the Library.
	After the adoption of the foregoing constitution
and by-laws the meeting adjourned until July 18,
1887, at 8 p.m. in the Social Mall, when the offi-
cers for the ensuing two years are to be elected.
					J. M. WHITAKER. Prest.


