DEAR AUNT EM:
	I have often thought I would describe to
you some one of the few excursions which I
have attended since I came here, but the last
few months I have allowed myself to let all
my literary amusements fall away from me.
My heart has been too heavy for even the
least effort.
	Now, however, I am going to try and tell
you of a little trip which a few of us took to
the island (as it is vaguely called) on the 11th
of last June.
	It was a national holy day here, being the
birthday of Kamehameha I. A concert to be
given by our choir here, over at Kahana,
took almost everybody away from here. But
as we, over here, were not included among their
singers or their guests, we were left at home.
After our concerters had departed, it oc-
curred to us that it would be an excellent plan
to get the boat and go over to the island, a
little piece of land about a quarter of a mile
out from the mouth of the river.
	However, I remembered that I had been in-
structed to ring the bell for the Hui Manawa-
lea (the R. S.) and what could be done. We
talked the matter over, and agreed to invite
the sisters of the Hui M to join us over on the
island, bringing their poi, w. taking our lunch,
and after an impromptu feast hold meeting
over there.
	The sisters soon spread the word, and all
were anxious to go. Accordingly we set out.
We put on our bathing suits, put dry clothes
in our valise, aud started. Mother walked
down to the sea, but I was taken down in the
boat from the mooring place on the river, a
short distance from the house.
	Here we are then, gathering from all points
of the compass. Our boat was heavy laden,

[Column 2]
and the water was low, and of course we
stranded twenty times ou the way down, but
two or three half grown boys and girls calmly
tucked up their clothes aud pulled us off
again.
	When we reached the mouth of the river,
we found many of the sisters waiting for us.
We tried to get mother to get in the boat,
but no, she insisted on walking across through
the sea, and away we went. It seemed to me
every woman had a child; but tucking up their
clothes, they all waded in and across. It was
only about waist deep. Once across, all busied
themselves in collecting materials for dinner—
Raw shell fish, sea moss, and raw hei or devil- 
fish; and what laughing and chatter. Pono
caught a great big fish with the hook and line.
Mother and Lula went hunting shells and curi-
osities, while I sat down under the shade of
the umbrella and watched the natives.
	Gracious! what an utter disregard of anything
like modesty. It is startliug to new-comers,
but, like “kissing niggers,” nothing when you
get used to it.
	The folks brought in a pail full of shells, and
the natives many a handful of raw fish of vari-
ous kinds.
	Our simple feast was soon dispatched, the
natives appearing in clean white wrappers,
carried across in bundles on their heads. A
short meeting followed, and then we set out for
home. Mother still persisted in walking across,
and in the hurry turned her foot from which
she still suffers at times.
	All in all it was a very pleasant day, and
many impressions, of which I have only given
you the skeleton, were graven on my mind.
The purple sky, fleeced with lazy clouds, the
golden, mellow sunshine, tempered by the salt 
sea breeze, the splash and jar of the waves up-
on the shore, the dark, bare-limbed natives,
graceful and slow, in the blue waters at their
work, the visions of the past, and the fears of
the future, all had a vivid place in my mind
that day. So it is! If asked to repeat our ex-
perience, we often bring out a rude frame work
of events, and set it up, unclothed with the
hopes, the thoughts, the bright impressions or
sad interlacings, that made it what it was—a
chapter in our lives.
						HOMESPUN.
Laie, Aug. 8, 1887.


