CHARITY.
	"But the greatest of these is charity" was
the utterance of that great man among men,
the apostle Paul, eighteen hundred years ago,
and the sentence has come sounding down
through the ages in clear ringing tones to the
present time.  Its truth, is echoing in our 
hearts to-day; but, alas, how little of its beauty
and greatness do we see exemplified.  If our
enemy hunger it may be an easy enough mat-
ter to feed him with a few hard crusts that fall
from our table, or on some holiday when bub-
bling over with good will we might vouchsafe
him a slice of cake or plumpudding.  But of 
the charity "that thinketh no evil," that al-
lows to every one his own right to think and
the expression of his thought seems to be a
harder matter.
	We do not quarrel with one another because
our noses are not all of the same length and
our eyes of the same color, yet, in as reasona-
ble a way, there is a readiness to pounce upon
one of differing opinions with a savage willing-
ness to have him burned at the stake, if it were 
only the custom to do such things.  That there 
are such numberless differences of opinion is
a truly blessed state of affairs, for if all per-
sons thought, acted and looked alike this would
be an extremely dull, commonplace sort of a
world.
	The golden rule has not its coinage in the 
instincts of human nature and it is a hard
thing for us always to allow others to do unto
us as we do toward them.  It is so easy and
self satisfying, too, to see wherein others are
wrong, and to condemn all faults and foibles
not our own.
	The dishonest man condemns his drunken
brother, and the hard-hearted man who never 
did a thoroughly good act in his life looks
askance at a weak, unprincipled brother while
his whole manner says, because thy sin is not
my sin, therefore it is deserving of the severest 
penalty.
	In one of the Charles Dickens' stories he
tells of the inoffensive, good little boy, David
Copperfield, who was very illtreated by his
step-father, and the more cruel the treatment
the greater became this dislike until a mere
sight of the boy would throw the step-father
into a rage.  So it appears to be a principle
of human nature that when the strong and
masterful person misuses those who are weak
he comes to dislike and despise them.  But
once let the stronger tenderly care for the
weaker, and work for that one's good even to
the denying of self and he acquires a love that
will make itself felt as the charity that "think-
eth no evil."  Our hearts as well as our minds
grow with what they feed upon.
	Often after years of vigorous, unsatisfying
struggle for the attainment of some of "life's
empty bubbles," when perhaps, careworn and 
misunderstood by our fellowmen we find there
is some one whose touch of sympathetic kindli-
ness causes our hearts to throb with a quick-
ened joy that revivifies and strengthens us and
we exclaim.  "Of the good things of life the
greatest of all is charity."
	There is a sublime beauty expressed in those
precious words "Father forgive them for they
know not what they do."  While all other
voices would be raised to condemn, he, whose
alone was the sinless life, could look with un-
bounded  charity, not upon sin, but upon the 
doer of evil.  If we all can enter the heavenly
school and, sitting at the feet of the Great 
Master, learn to love our neighbor as ourself
and then shall we grow up tall and strong in
"the wisdom that is from above; which is first
pure, then peaceable gentle and easy to be en-
treated, full of mercy and good fruits, without
hypocrisy."—Ex.
								S.B


