My Trip to the Mountains to Gather Elderberries By Rose G. Roundy DURING the year of 1933 fruit was very scarce in Escalante and times were so hard that people could not afford to buy from peddlers that came in to the town with fruit to sell. Time was passing and our bottles were still empty. We learned from sheepherders that there were plenty of elderberries in the mountains for everybody, but how to get them was the problem. Not very many people had cars, and those who did, could not afford gasoline to run them. A group of women got together and decided upon a plan. Our truck driver, Mr. Jed Ayer, said he would take as many as the truck would hold for twenty-five cents a piece. Our crowd consisted of eight men and thirteen women. We all prepared lunch and started at eight thirty on a Wednesday morning. We traveled twenty miles to the top of our beautiful mountain. Our driver stopped and said he wanted everybody to gaze for five minutes at the scenery. Bryce Canyon is wonderful, but not more beautiful than were the scenes that met our gaze that morning. It was about the latter part of September. A few of the tenderest leaves had turned to gold, bright red or pale yellow and others green of different shades. It was a picture no artist but God could paint. After we had satisfied our souls, we started on again. Leaving the main road we turned south following an old pole road for about two miles, when we came to the end of the road, and we had to proceed on foot. Everybody got out of the truck and gathered buckets, baskets and sacks, and started down the mountain side into what is called "The Hole." It is a mile or so down and very steep: in fact, almost straight up and down in some places. It is also very rough, the mountain side being covered with rocks which look like limestone. But everybody felt fine and enjoyed the mountain air. On reaching the bottom, the picking began. It was a wonderful sight to see those bushes hanging with clusters of blue berries resembling grapes, only smaller. We scattered out and rambled some two or three miles, leaving a bucket or basket when it was filled, to be picked up on the return. ABOUT twelve o'clock everything we had to fill was heaped up and running over. Then the journey back began. We all stopped at the spring for a cool drink and to bathe our burning foreheads. It had been fun going down, but now all were tired and hungry, and when they gazed up that mountain side it looked ten times as long as it did when they were going down. Each person had brought two or more buckets, baskets or sacks and all these had to be carried up that trail. A sheepherder, Mr. Leslie Griffin, was hunting sheep in that vicinity at that time and had been very generous in helping to fill our vessels. He also filled two fifty pound sacks to send down to his mother. He was riding a mule that was none too gentle, but he offered to help get the berries to the top of the mountain. So we 460 loaded them on the mule and he made several trips to the top, the men also made two or more trips, coming back to meet the women folk who were traveling as fast as they could with the loads they were carrying. It was a sight never to be forgotten to see men, women and a mule all loaded with elderberries and strung all the way up that rocky mountainside. When about half way up, some of the women began to get weak, one sister taking a severe sick. Headache, but the good. Old mule again came to the rescue. She was put on the mule's back and sent to the top. On reaching the truck she was lifted off and one of the men took the mule back and got another lady, whom he brought safely up. At last everybody was up; but where were we going to put the berries? In totalling up our load we had eighteen buckets, twelve bushel basRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE kets, and twenty-two fifty pound sacks. It began to look as if we would have to walk back, but we finally got them and ourselves all in. We then began looking for a spring so we could quench our thirst and eat our lunch. We finally located one. How good the sandwiches and tomatoes tasted! At last the headaches and the weariness were all forgotten, and it was a happy crowd that sped back down the mountain. THE next few days were spent in making jelly and bottling elderberries. Everybody agreed that it was the cheapest fruit they had ever put up, and made advanced dates for the next year, should there be any berries. What treats we had during the winter, for the berries were delicious any way they were eaten, in pies, puddings, dumplings, ice cream or just fresh.