The Spirit of the Magazine By Winona F. Thomas A PLAYLET For Use DURING THE DRIVE FOR MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS Characters JENNY SYMES, the hostess. BETTY, her ten year old daughter. MRS. LYNN, a Relief Society teacher. MRS. BEAL, a Relief Society teacher. THE SPIRIT OF THE MAGAZINE. EDUCATION. RELIGION. HEALTH. SOCIAL SERVICE. STORIES. POETRY. HOME MAKING. AMBITION. CHARITY. LOYALTY TO ORGANIZATION. Costumes: Jenny Symes and Betty should be dressed in house dresses, Mrs. Lynn and Beal in street dresses, and the others in long white robes. Scene: The play takes place in the living room of Mrs. Symes' house. As the curtain rises, Jenny Symes is seated at the left side of the stage with a table in front of her. Betty is on a low stool in center, fixing roller skates. Mrs. Lynn and Beal are seated right. Mrs. Symes?That was a nice lesson. I enjoy your lessons and visits so much. It takes my mind off my monotonous daily tasks. Mrs. Lynn?Yes, they are good lessons. And now?before we go ?we have something for you. Mrs. Symes?For Me? Mrs. Beal-?Yes, it is a little bank. Last month in our work meeting, we made one for each of the sisters. Mrs. Symes ? Isn't it pretty. What is it for? Mrs. Lynn?-It is to help you to collect pennies and small change so that when it comes time to subscribe for the magazine, and pay your membership fee, you will have the money all ready. Mrs. Symes?But I never have taken the magazine, and I very seldom go to Relief Society meetings, I don't believe they expect me to pay a membership fee. Mrs. Beal?Yes they do. If you are enrolled and don't pay it, the organization has to. This way of saving a little at a time will make it easy to pay your obligations. Mrs. Lynn?I think you would like the magazine if you were acquainted with it. Mrs. Beal?If we are to finish our district, we must be going. Mrs. Symes ? I have enjoyed your visit very much. Come again. Mrs. Lynn?We will, thank you. Try to come out to our next meeting. (Exit) Betty (picks up bank)?Can I have this to play with? Mrs. Symes?No, of course not. You may look at it, but don't take it. It is for me to save pennies in so I can take the magazine. Betty?If I help you save pennies, can I have what's left toward some new skates? These are wrecks. Mrs. Symes?Yes, that will be fine. Betty?Look, one of the women forgot her magazine. Shall I take it to her? Mrs. Symes?Yes, hurry. Or no ?wait. Let me look at it. I have never looked through one before. I'll see that she gets it this evening. 478 Betty?If you need me, I'll be out on the side-walk. (exit) Mrs. Symes?All right. (speaks of magazine) It is nice print.?It isn't all cluttered up with advertising.?But I never get all my work done now. What would the house look like if I took time off to read? Perhaps that is what I need. I'm getting kitchen minded. I would like to take this magazine. (Enter the Spirit of the Magazine) Spirit?Did you invite me to come in? Mrs. Symes?Who are you? Spirit?I am the Spirit of the Magazine. Mrs. Symes?Why did you come here? Spirit?I felt that you needed me. It gave me great joy to think that at last I was welcome in your home. Mrs. Symes?Have you tried to enter here before? SPIRIT OF MAGAZINE?Yes, many times. Each year since you left your childhood home and established one of your own, I have tried to get in. But I have never before felt that I was wanted. I could have helped you in so many ways. Mrs. Symes?I know I need help. But I haven't much money. There are so many ways to spend every dollar we get. Spirit of Magazine?Where can you spend a dollar which will bring you as much in return? Mrs. Symes?If you could convince me of that, it would be easier to collect the necessary money. SPIRIT OF MAGAZINE?Let me show you some of the ways you will be benefited if you take the magazine. The first is Religion. (Religion enters) RELIGION?The Relief Society is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE primarily a religious organization, founded by a Prophet of God, for the purpose of saving and enlightening the souls of women. Besides the theology lessons which are printed in nine issues each year, there are articles written by our inspired Church leaders. In faith we can follow such people as these. "Lord, show the way and guide therein These willing feet of mine. Help me to do Thy holy will, To feel Thy life within me thrill And know Thy joy divine." (Religion stands on the left of the Spirit, who remains in center) (Enter Education, who stands on the right) SPIRIT OF MAGAZINE?This is the education which comes with the magazine. Education?A college education can be gained by anyone who will study and master the lessons in the magazine. The human soul can be compared to a statue which is hidden in a block of marble. The sculptor must remove the superfluous matter and clear away the rubbish. The statue is already there. The sculptor merely finds it. What the sculptor is to a block of marble, education is to the soul. The educated person has wealth which no power can diminish, riches which are always increasing, possessions which the more he scatters, the more he has. SPIRIT OF MAGAZINE?For the sake of your health you should subscribe for the magazine. Health?The magazine frequently contains articles on health. Our bodies you know, are tabernacles, fashioned by an all-wise Creator as an earthly abode for a holy spirit. We must keep them free THE SPIRIT OF THE MAGAZINE from impurities and care for them properly. "God made the world with flowers and trees: And tiny grains of sand. The sky, the clouds, the mountain breeze Are products of his hand. When his work was finished his plans he made And began a work anew. ? He fashioned His master-piece when he made A beautiful body for you." SPIRIT OF MAGAZINE?If you would use wisdom in caring for your children, take the magazine. Social Service?You will be greatly helped in caring for and training your children. There is so much mothers need to know, and so much new knowledge available, that it is a serious mistake not to learn all we can. When we think how precious a little child is, how recently he has come from his heavenly home, and the reason why he was placed here, we can see how great our responsibility is in helping him reach the highest degree of perfection which he is capable of attaining. SPIRIT OF MAGAZINE?You will next see the benefit of the stories. Stories ? The magazine each month contains stories on subjects of interest to us all. The influence which stories can have on the lives of the readers is remarkable. If you can tell me the type of stories a person reads, I can tell you the kind of a man he is. Indeed, it is much easier to judge him by the stories he reads, than by the company he keeps. The stories in the magazine can be depended on to be true to the highest ideals of women, 479 and to inspire them on to lead more noble lives. SPIRIT OF MAGAZINE?The poems give that touch of beauty which everyone must have. Poetry?The poets who write for the magazine, have a gift for expressing universal thoughts in a way that ordinary persons who are not able to see the beauty about them can thrill with the poet in feeling it. "They walk along illumined paths, A pageantry of light, They sing a song of men made free, They sing of health and might."' SPIRIT OF MAGAZINE? The magazine will help to solve your home problems. Home Making?There are many suggestions for home making. It may be menu or recipes, or it may be directions for beautifying the home. If we wish to cultivate in our children a taste for beauty and harmony in their surroundings, we must begin early. The foundation for what a person is in later life is laid in the pre-school period in the home. SPIRIT OF MAGAZINE?The magazine will help you in your desire to make your life better than it has been before. Ambition?It is natural for all living things to grow toward the light, and the light will lead to higher levels. The great thing in this life is not where we are, but in what direction we are moving. If we are to reach the higher levels we must climb, sometimes with the wind and sometimes against it, but end each day with a knowledge that we are higher than we have ever been before. SPIRIT OF MAGAZINE?The magazine will teach you to be charitable. Charity?"Charity never faileth," is the watchword found in every magazine. We are taught to be charitable to every one who is less fortunate than we. We must take time to be courteous, to be thankful, to be kind, to help those who need it. If we will but put ourselves in the place of others, we will find thousands of little kindnesses we can do, which will bring blessings to them and happiness to us. SPIRIT OF MAGAZINE?Last, but not least is loyalty. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Loyalty?In loyalty to the organization you should support the magazine. It is not published as a money-making enterprise, but for the benefit of the members of the Relief Society. In order that the subscription price can remain at its present level, it is necessary that more women take it, thus doing their bit to keep the price within the reach of all. Mrs. Symes remains seated at the table. The women standing behind in a half circle. They remain in place to sing the song. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SONG * Winona L. THOMAS. March time. NELLIE P, LARSEN.  ?trust its blessed light to guide?