Joseph Smith By James L. Barker Ii] The wishes of the people were consulted at the Council of Jerusalem. Were the wishes of the people consulted at the Council of Jerusalem (Acts 15)? Monsignor Hunt says: "There is not the slightest indication that they assembled 'to consider of this matter'."" According to the Bible text then, for what purpose did the people assemble? No other purpose is discernible and there is every indication in the text that Peter, Barnabas, Paul and James did address their remarks to the "multitude" as well as to the elders, "Peter rose up, and said unto them. Men and brethren,..." and "James answered saying, Men and brethren, hearken unto me: Simon hath declared how, etc." Thus ~ the remarks of Peter and of James were addressed, not only to the elders, but directly to the "multitude." Monsignor Hunt finds "no evidence whatever to support the statement that St. Peter presented the matter of the observance of the Jewish law to the 'multitude. To the contrary, St. Peter presented the matter to the 'apostles and ancients.' Apparently, all that the people did was to listen. In the second verse of the chapter it is stated that the two parties in the dispute decided to send representatives to Jerusalem to present their case to the 'apostles and priests (elders).' Apparently, it did not occur to them that they should present the matter to the people." In the present-day Church, any matter for consideration is presented first to the "apostles and the priests (elders)" and afterwards to the "assembly." In this case, if we are to accept Paul's account in the second chapter of Galatians, the matter was first presented to the apostles. (This is also to be inferred from Acts 15:2 cited by Monsignor Hunt.) In Galatians 2:2, "Paul evidently intimates that, besides his private conference with Peter, James, and John, there was also a public deliberation with the brethren in Jerusalem in general." "We must accordingly take the account of Paul in Gal. 2, as a valuable complement of the narrative in Acts 15. And as the private transactions with the apostles themselves, which alone it was to Paul's purpose to detail, would naturally precede the public deliberation and decree, we must first notice the statement of Paul.? Luke's narrative in Acts 15, "by no means precludes the supposition of a previous private interview, which, in the nature of the case is extremely probable; and his relating merely the public transactions is readily explained by the documentary character and object of his work." The apostles, therefore, and elders, and as many private Christians as were interested and could find room (Acts 15:1, 12, 22) came together for a general consultation." "Schaff, History of the Apostolic Church, p. 249, Charles Scribner. New York, 1853. "Schaff, History of the Church, p. 248. "Schaff, History of the Church, p. 253. According to Mourret, "St. Cyprian declare his unwillingness to issue a decree without first having obtained the opinion of the clergy and the consent Apostolic Apostolic JOSEPH SMITH According to Monsignor Hunt, "There is not the slightest indication that they (the people) assembled 'to consider this matter'." "Concerning the people, two things are stated. The first is that they were present; the second is that they held their peace. That is all. It is of great significance to observe that after St. Peter delivered the essential part of the verdict, 'the multitude held their peace.' Of course they held their peace. They recognized the spokesman of Christ." Undoubtedly the people respected Peter and the effect of his words would produce a silence, but there is another reason for holding "their peace": Barnabas and Paul were about to speak. And after they had finished speaking, 'the multitude' "held their peace' again, because James was about to speak to the "mulitude'" on the same subject. These speeches of Barnabas and Paul and James were a waste of time if, as Monsignor Hunt says, "With his (Peter's) decision all difference of opinion disappeared." Moreover, the final decision of the assembly was to adopt a compromise proposed by James. Mourret? says concerning this Council of Jerusalem: "Nevertheless the apostles and the ancients (elders) were assembled in council. They were awaiting what Peter and James would say.?  Mourret, Les Origines Chretiennes, p. 381. The Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics. Article Councils, p. 185, notes the submission of ordinations to the people: "a canon of the 6th Century, Gallean document, known as the cannons of the 'Fourth Council of Carthage' which passed into general Western canon law, enacted 'that a bishop is not to ordain clergy without the advice of his clergy, so that he may look for the assent and witness of the people." This practice had not entirely disappeared at a comparatively late date (ninth century). Fe aseme Generale de 1'Eglise, vol. 1, p.82. 465 They were awaiting what Peter and James would say.", ""My brethren,' said Peter,..." "St. Luke remarks that after Peter had thus spoken, it was difficult in fact to contradict words so full of authority and good sense. Paul and Barnabas were then admitted to relate the miracles and prodigies that God had performed among the pagans.' When they had finished, James arose. If the hierarchical authority of Peter was undisputed among the faithful, the moral authority of James was universal in Jerusalem, even among the Jews. His assiduity in the temple had obtained for him a particular esteem among the zealous; his quality of 'brother of the Lord' assured for him a particular deference. James quoted the ancient prophets, then he concluded: 'For my part I am of the opinion that we should not create difficulties for those who are converted to God among the pagans. Nevertheless I am of the opinion that we should write them to abstain from the pollution of idols, from fornication, and from strangled animals ("animaux etouffes dans le sang")." "That was to accept clearly in principle the law of liberty proclaimed by Peter and Paul; but at the same time it recognized the necessity of preparing the transition. The entire assembly adopted the view of James."? Not just Peter, but Paul and Barnabas also, had spoken, and the decision formulated, not by Peter, but by James, was finally adopted by the "entire assembly." Mourret says too that "The assembly of Jerusalem (not just Peter or just Peter and the elders) reached "L'assemblee toute entiere se rangea a l'avis de Jacques." 466 the following decision: 'It has appeared good to the Holy Ghost and to us, etc.'"' Monsignor Hunt affirms "That there can be no question that the narrative about the Council in Jerusalem throws light upon Professor Barker's thesis. It throws entirely too much light. It shows that the thesis is wholly false." Is Monsignor Hunt making up by strength of statement for the weakness of his evidence? Catholics trying to justify their Church position on the question of authority and the non-participation of the people in Church decisions, usually admit, as does for example L. Cl. Fillion," Professor of Holy Scripture in the Catholic Institute of Paris that the words with the whole Church designate probably nothing more than the tacit assent of the assembly; at least, it is certain, according to verse 23, that the apostles and the priests-bishops alone took an active part in the preparation of the decree. One may readily understand that the proposition of St. James rallied all votes, because it was so perfectly wise.' For Mourret, James' proposition is accepted by the assembly because it was "of perfect wisdom." The decision was not formulated by the people, but was submitted to them for their approval. In the "Holy Bible (Latin text and French translation) commented according to the Vulgate for the use of seminaries and the clergy, Librairie Letouzey et Ane, Paris, 1924. Vol. 7, footnote p. 720. 7 es mots cum omni ecclesia ne peuvent guere designer qu'un assentiment tacite de l'assemblee; du moins. Il est certain, d'apres le vers. 23, que les apotres et les pretres-eveques prirent seuls une part active dans la preparation du decret. On comprend aisement que la proposition de saint Jacques ait rallie tous les suffrages, car elle etait d, une parfaite sagesse." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE latter-day Church (as then), the people do not take "an active part in the preparation of the decree." Bulls and acts compelling the human conscience, not "definitions of doctrine" nullify free will. Monsignor Hunt asserts that: "Professor Barker contends that popular participation in doctrinal definitions is necessary in order to prevent officials from 'compelling' the consciences of the people." The article does not speak of participation in doctrinal definitions, but only of their approval by the people; the people were not asked to define doctrine but to express their approval and acceptance of doctrine, at the Council of Jerusalem. It is this abandonment of the custom of consulting the wishes of the people with the ensuing consequences that is referred to in the following: "after this time when unfit candidates were chosen for the ministry, the people having lost their means of protection (the right of expressing their approval or disapproval, their acceptance or rejection) were unable to rid themselves of negligent or worldly priests; if liberty of conscience was infringed upon, they no longer had any efficient means of protesting... The Pope has in times past issued bulls for the stamping out of heresy, and sincere men, following the best light they had, have been burned." The following is an example of such attempts "to compel the consciences of the people": Bull of Pope Gregory IX against heretics" "We excommunicate all heretics, Given at Viterbo on the ninth of November, 1236. Translated from the German translation of Hoensbroek, Das Papsttum in seiner sozial-kulterellen Wirksamkeit, pp. 638-9. Breitkopf und Hartel, Leipzig, 1900. JOSEPH SMITH Cathari, Pasagians, and all others under whatever name whatsoever. They have various faces, but they are all tied together by their tails. Anathematized by the Church, they shall be turned over to the civil court in order that they may be punished with befitting punishment (punishment by death). If any among them are willing to repent, they shall be condemned as a suitable penance to life-long imprisonment. We also excommunicate the friends of heretics and decree that whoever does not decant from his malicious disposition shall lapse into infamy, he shall be incompetent to hold public office and to give testimony; he shall neither be able to make a will nor to inherit. Whoever remains excommunicated for a year shall from then on be condemned as a heretic. Such a heretic shall not have the right of appeal; no judge, no lawyer, no notary may be at his service. Whoever shall bury such excommunicated heretics is himself excommunicated, and he shall not be absolved until he has publicly exhumed them with his own hands and has thrown away the corpses of the damned. We also forbid that any layman dispute in public or in private about the Catholic belief; whoever does so will become entangled in the snare of excommunication. Whoever knows of the existence of heretics, shall point them out on the pain of excommunication. The sons. Of heretics or of the befrienders of heretics shall be admitted to no kind of office or benefit." 467 Monsignor Hunt says that Professor Barker's statement that "No one may question the rightfulness of his (the pope's) actions" is news to him. Throughout the article in the Relief Society Magazine the official "actions" of the pope are referred to. "The Christian life is premised on free will, but such bulls and acts compelling the human conscience (not 'definitions of doctrine') nullify free will, and make it, as it were, non-existent. They strike at the fundamental condition of a religious life." It is official action and not his private life that might "compel" the "consciences of the people." Who could question this papal bull or oppose its execution? Monsignor Hunt says "the Church cannot destroy free will. Christ did not 'compel,' and the Church cannot 'compel' any man's conscience." "Professor Barker seems to be firmly convinced that the Church, by some terrible weapon, either physical or moral, compels her people to accept the Gospel.... In any community, even the most strictly Catholic community in the world, there are those who abandon the faith, and each apostate is living proof that the Church does not 'compel'." Evidently Monsignor Hunt is speaking of the present only, for had he recalled the past, he should have said, not that "each apostate is living proof that the Church does not 'compel'," but that apostates were dead proof that the Church did "compel."