8 The Heritage By Rosannah C. Irvine IF any one had told Robert Clayton that he was the most popular man on the campus he would not have believed it. He was too modest for that, but he was the most popular man, and he had a host of devoted friends. To be sure in these days of flagrant law breaking, most of them thought that he was prudish because he refused to be a "good fellow" and take a drink with them. However, he was so charmingly casual about it that no one could take offense. Although they smiled at him, many of them secretly admired him for standing by his principles. There was one group of boys, though, who had quite a different feeling for him. They despised him for his ideals as well as for his popularity. That was the "Durant bunch". One night at a class party Albert Durant offered Robert a glass of "home brew" apparently with the utmost good will. Durant's animosity toward Robert was an open secret. Robert was the only man on the campus who was unaware of it. "Or if he did know it he chose to ignore the matter. He only laughed good naturedly when Archie told him that Durant had boasted that he would "get that saint Clayton." So now when the liquor was passed to him he courteously refused it. Albert had been drinking heavily. He rose unsteadily to his feet and raised his glass. "Fellows," he said. Instantly there was silence, "get hold of this man Clayton. He's too chicken to take a drink just because his old man's a drunkard." The Durant faction howled with glee, but before the liquor had touched their lips the surging indignation of the roomful of decent. Fair-minded boys overwhelmed them. In one leap Bob's pal was on Durant. Before he had time to do Albert bodily injury half a dozen boys dragged him into a corner and held him down. "Don't be a fool, Arch," they hissed. "We'll have the dean on our necks if we don't watch our step. You know those kids are aching for a fight." No sound came from Robert's white lips, but the tragedy in his eyes revealed his suffering. The party was spoiled by the incident and soon broke up. As Bob and Archie were leaving, Durant, by this time in a maudlin state, forced his way up to Robert and said, 446 "How's the booze hound's little boy?" Robert's answer was swift and to the point?of Durant's jaw. He went down in a heap. He struggled to his feet cursing, and lunged at Bob. Again Robert, the peaceable, struck, and once more Durant crumpled to the floor, silent but blinking feebly. Archie took Robert's arm and pulled him away, giving Durant a none too friendly kick in passing. The two roommates walked the short distance to their fraternity house in silence. Archie's heart was aching in sympathy, but he could find no words to say. Long after Archie had fallen asleep Robert lay with staring eyes, sick with indignation and shame. There was no disloyalty in the thoughts that crowded his mind. It was the pity of it! That his wonderful father whom he loved with all the ardor of youth should be like that! Only twice had Robert seen his father under the influence of liquor. Then he had not seemed like his merry, gallant father at all, but like some sullen, ill-natured stranger. There were often months ? once there had been two years between lapses. When he was normal the family was divinely happy. The regret which he suffered so poignantly for his fault made Mr. Clayton feel, when he was himself, that all the loving devotion which he could give his wife and son was not enough to atone for their shame and humiliation when he was different. WHEN Robert had finished high school his father insisted that he should go away to college. He believed that the boy needed to get entirely away from the indulgent home environment. The boy himself was thrilled with the idea. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mother's heart was filled with foreboding. She pleaded that it would be best for him to go to the state university so that he might live at home. Mr. Clayton was determined. However, and Robert was so eager that under their combined urging she finally gave a reluctant consent. Before Robert left for college his father had a long and utterly frank talk with him. "My son," he said, "I want you to make me a solemn promise. That is that you will never touch a drop of intoxicating liquor." "That's easy, Dad," cried the boy eagerly. "I promised mother that long ago, and I've kept my word. It couldn't be any temptation for me because I don't even know the smell of the stuff." "Yes, Bob, I know how you feel. I was that way myself once. Unfortunately there is a stronger reason for my exacting the pledge from you than the natural desire to have you keep your word and uphold the law. It is time you knew the terrible truth. It is something which everybody knows but of which we never speak. It is the curse of drink in our family. It has descended from father to son through many generations. At least one of every generation, so far as I know, has become a victim to the horrible malady. It brings unhappiness, disaster, and spiritual breakdown. You know the suffering which I have caused your dear mother. It would kill mother if you fail her too. Remember that it doesn't require character to yield to temptation. It takes strength and determination to stand by a principle in the face of ridicule. That was my downfall. I overestimated my strength. I knew the danger, too, but after the first surrender something of courage and character seemed to die in me. After all it THE HERITAGE is a question of character. Up to the time that the Volstead Act became a law, I was like you are now. I had never tasted a drop of any kind of liquor. Your mother and I were very happy. Then all her latent fears for me and you also were set at rest. You were a small boy then. I don't know what demon possessed me, but as most of my friends were doing I ordered a big supply of wines and whiskey and other kinds of liquor sent to the house. And I began to drink. You know the result. I am like all the others of my tribe who have become the victims of drink." "Didn't any of the others overcome the habit?" Robert asked curiously. This was the first time that his father had ever mentioned the subject to him. He had not realized before what a struggle his father had perhaps had in trying to conquer this appetite. His mother had always dealt kindly with her husband. She had never been harsh or bitter with him for his fault. At the same time she had been untiring in her efforts to build up her son's resistance against the evil. "Very few overcame the habit," Mr. Clayton answered. 'Almost without exception the result has been the same. It is like a malignant disease. You come of a long line of Puritans on your mother's side. We believe that the sturdy strain from them will overcome the taint in mine. You are the last of my race. We are banking all our hopes on you, son. Don't fail us. It lies in your power to break the spell.'' Robert knew enough of the evil effects of drink to make him anxious to avoid it. He pledged his word to his father without a qualm. Tenderly he laughed at his mother's fears. With prohibition 447 "Why, mother darling, you can trust me absolutely. Don't forget that I'm as much your son as father's. You've always said that I'm like the Claytons. And you know there has never been anything like that in your family." Mrs. Clayton, looking into the strong, eager face of her son, took heart. SOON after the party Durant called on Robert. He seemed very friendly and contrite. "Clayton," he said, "I can't tell you how humiliated and sorry I am for what happened the other night. My only excuse is that I didn't know what I was doing. Booze has been the downfall of all my people. You're wise to let it alone. I wish I could. This affair has taught me a lesson. A man can't afford to make a fool of himself. I wouldn't have had this happen for a million bucks. I have no right to ask you to forgive me, in fact, I really don't see how you could. But I do want you to know that I am sorry and that I'd just do anything to make it right." Being so thoroughly honest himself, and having such innate refinement, Robert mistook the polished manners of Durant for integrity. He accepted the apology with all the friendliness of his amiable nature.. Archie Watson was not so placable. He was a canny Scot. He was sure that Durant was guilty of duplicity. "That shows what drink will do for-a fellow," Robert remarked when their guest had left. "Oh yeah? Don't count too much on that line of his. They say that whiskey brings out the real nature of the animal. But that skunk doesn't need liquor to bring out the bad in him. It's there all the time. Don't kid yourself, Bob. He's no  friend of yours. He hates you like poison." "Forget it, you old heathen! Why don't you practice what you preach? The brotherhood of man and all that." "Nuts! Who wants to be brother to a snake?" One afternoon shortly after that Durant came to their rooms again. "Say fellows," he said genially, "Gus and I wondered if you wouldn't come over to the house tonight and chew the fat for a while." "Sure," responded Robert promptly. "You can, can't you, Arch?" "No, of course I can't go tonight," said Archie crossly. "You both know perfectly well I can't. It's the last meet of the season." "Oh yes, I'd forgotten," Robert said. "Thanks a lot for the invitation. We'd be glad to come some other time." "That's the worst of it. Gus and I counted on you for tonight. It is the only night we have free for two weeks. Can't you get out of it just this once, Watson?" "What do you think I am " asked Archie indignantly. "You know I wouldn't do that if I could, and I couldn't get off tonight of all nights in the year." "Well, that's tough luck, but I guess it can't be helped. You'll come anyway, won't you, Clayton?" "I was going to do a little studying, but I guess I can come over for a little while."; "Great! We'll be seeing you then." Durant left in high good humor. For some time after his departure the boys were silent. Archie paced the room restlessly. At last he spoke thoughtfully. "Bobby, please don't go over there tonight." "Well for crying out loud! Why not?" "There's something fishy about it. That's why. I'm telling you, Durant hates you worse than he does me, and that's saying plenty." "Honest, Arch, I've never seen anyone nurse a grudge like you do. What's the idea?" "Well, he's a sneak. Everybody knows it but you. I can prove that this affair is a trick." "All right. Shoot." "The whole Durant bunch was in the gym this morning when I was talking with the coach. They heard every word I said, so they knew that I couldn't go there tonight. Afterward they were in a huddle and having a perfect fit over something. On top of that comes this lousy invitation." "Well? What of it? That doesn't prove anything." "No? Well, I'm telling that this affair means no good to you, Bob. Every jack man of them has sworn to get you. I've told you before, but you wouldn't believe me. You're the only man on the campus who doesn't know its so." "Ah nertz! There's no earthly reason why they should hate me. You walk around with a chip on your shoulder. If you're looking for trouble you imagine lots of things that don't exist. You ought to snap out of it, Arch. Improve your disposition, son, and you'll be happier. I'm awful sorry you can't go tonight, but as long as Durant has made such friendly advances I simply won't hurt his feelings by refusing to make up. I'm no infant you know, Arch. I think I can take care of myself." "You think you can, but you don't know those weasels. The whole bunch isn't worth two hoots. Don't THE HERITAGE go, Bob. Please! Scare up a toothache or something." "You're a regular old grouch, Archie. I can't beg off now any more than you can get out of your meet. I'll be O. K. There isn't anything they could do to me. So ditch your worries and trot along to the gym." ROBERT was startled on entering Durant's room to find the whole "bunch" there. He had expected to meet Durant and his roommate only. He had a strong inclination to run away. He wished heartily that he had taken Archie's advice and stayed away from the place. The boys saw the consternation in his face and rushed forward and dragged him in. Their greeting was hilarious, but seemed to Robert very amiable and fraternal. He appreciated their friendliness. Their genial welcome disarmed his suspicions and put him at his ease. Presently Durant called to a boy who was stirring something in a large punch bowl. "On with the drink, Ed. We're dying of thirst." When it was ready he handed Robert a glass saying courteously, "It's a harmless fruit punch, Clayton. We're all drinking it tonight in your honor. As a matter of fact, we're all on the water wagon, for the time being at least." Robert accepted the glass. He felt immensely flattered because of their consideration. He took a sip; and looked up inquiringly at his host. It was different from anything he had ever tasted. Durant, who was watching him, laughed pleasantly. "Great stuff, what? I reckon you never tasted anything like that before,' he remarked. "It's a secret formula used in our family for 449 generations. Our old darkey mammy used to make it for us at home. I was raised on the stuff. It wouldn't harm a baby. Here's to our future good times together." Robert drained the glass to the toast and many others as well. The punch, which was mostly champagne, went to the poor boy's head. At first he was unconscious of the treachery, and before he realized it he was too far gone to care. There were always ready hands to serve him. It was a thoroughly organized plot. His companions drank sparingly at first that they might "see the fun." By ten o'clock Robert was, as he expressed it himself, "gloriously tight." With the help of many strong hands he had climbed to the table and was singing at the top of his voice, to the wild applause of the group, when the door burst open and Watson flung into the room. Quivering with rage he flew to the table. But ten lusty, young bodies intercepted him. The name of the Deity burst from his white lips. It was not profanity. It was a heartbroken prayer. All the emotions of his being were expressed in that one great word. Struggling to reach his friend, he cried, "You dirty rats! I suspected trouble, but I didn't think that even the rottenest of you would do a thing like this!" Robert joined loudly in the shout of derision which greeted his words. Seeing that force was useless, Archie tried persuasion, but Robert with maudlin stubbornness refused to go with him. ""Scram, pansy," he gurgled. Seeing that his efforts were futile, Archie, in desperation, rushed to their own fraternity, resolved to rouse the whole house if necessary. When he opened the door of their  room a man rose to meet him. He was a tall, handsome man, with white hair, but a face fresh and young, and so strikingly like Robert's that Archie recognized him instantly as the father of his friend. His first feeling was one of relief. This, however, was instantly banished by the sickening thought of the scene he had just witnessed. "Is this Archie? I'm Bob's father. Where is my boy?" Mr. Clayton had no premonition of evil. Archie felt as if his heart would burst. He would rather have died than tell this proud father what had happened to his son. He was quite unconscious of the tears on his face as he blurted out his story. "Robert!" groaned Mr. Clayton. "Take me to him." "Mr. Clayton, we'll have to have help. There are about a dozen of them, and Bob is unwilling to leave." "He'll come with me." Without ceremony Archie opened the door of Durant's room. The boys turned on him fiercely. By this. Time they were all intoxicated and in a humor to pitch him out. For several seconds they were unaware of the presence of the older man. Then they recognized him as Archie had done as the father of their victim. Impelled by the piteous grief in the father's face they instinctively rose to their feet and were silent. Robert, who. Was seated at the head of the table, gazed for one moment into his father's eyes, then bowed his head on his arms and sobbed. Mr. Clayton went to him and laid his hand gently on the boy's shoulder. "My son!" The young men standing around. Even the most depraved, were suddenly sobered and awed by the expression which illuminated the father's face. A new and divine purpose had entered into his soul, hope. Courage, and,?at last a defiance of the bitter heritage. Putting his arm around the boy he raised him gently to his feet and led him from the room. "Come, my son," he said. "You and I are going to fight this battle together!"