From an Ogden Kitchen to Fifth Avenue By Cora Carver Ritchie THE business world had gone mad with a nightmare of failures. Stabilized business concerns, controlled for scores of years by efficient men, tottered and fell. Men's hearts were numbed by the unusual conditions. Courage seemed a word of the dim past. The world lost all sense of values. Manufacturers, east and west in every country of the world, felt the depression. The cry came from big houses everywhere, "We need no more help. There is no business. This depression has killed our trade. We will not buy because we cannot sell." Into this picture of gloomy grays, came the remarkable words of Ada Quinn, founder, owner and manager of the Kathleen Quinn Wholesale Garment Co., located at Ogden, Utah. "Yes, I need expert help! We are rushed beyond capacity. We run extra night shifts to try to keep orders filled.'' In answer to long distance phone calls she said, 'No, I cannot promise any more orders ahead. You will have to wait your turn." Just seven years ago Ada Quinn, housewife, mother and social welfare worker decided she would like to go into business for herself. She didn't know or care particularly what kind of business. Her big problem at that time was to find work for women, especially widows. She wanted to put into effect the theory that real social welfare work comes through helping others to help themselves. She had made rugs, quilts, aprons, etc., in the Relief Society. Why not make aprons to sell? She says, "I set myself to work to learn the art of buying materials and making aprons for sale purposes. I had only five dollars so I bought a few yards of gingham and a few spools of thread and started out. I made four different lots of aprons before I sold any. I picked them to pieces time and time again before I was satisfied. I was so tired I sent my little boy to town with them. I had my first thrill when the manager of a large store in Ogden took them and ordered eleven dozen more." WITH her five dollars, her idea, one family sewing machine and her will to work, she was launched on her business career. From that moment success was hers. Difficulties were to be met on all sides, but she possessed unlimited courage. Orders for fifty dozen aprons came next. She bought another sewing machine and called in more women. She laughed as she spoke of her early experience. "I bought an old electric motor and attached it to my machine. Every time we tried to hurry, off flew that old motor. "Then my kitchen became too small and I moved into a fourroomed shack that stood in my back yard." Orders kept increasing. Other business houses began to notice her. She declared her first big scare came when other houses tried to put her out. When she refused they threatened her saying, "We will push you to the wall." Her friends became alarmed and tried to get her to sell out. Her husband, who had aided her in many ways, coaxed her to \ 452 give up her business. Her business friends said, "Sell now before they get you. Save what you have." But Mrs. Quinn was the daughter of frugal-fighting pioneers and was on the battle-field of business to stay or die. She realized that she lacked business education and experience, but she says, "I knew the men who were trying to copy and put me out were only men in a woman's game, so I knew I had a good fighting chance. She decided to enlarge her business and get greater net returns by buying direct from wholesalers, so she took a trip to the East. Here she met her first big set back. The wholesalers refused to even show her samples. They considered her business too small. Determined to keep on, she bought from jobbers in such large quantities and kept her credit so good that she soon became well known. In just a few months time salesmen from the East and West called on Mrs. Quinn to display their samples. Her business outgrew the four RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE rooms, so she built a large brick factory. Today it is a modern up-todate, well lighted, well ventilated factory, a veritable bee-hive of happy busy workers, turning thousands of yards of bright colored prints and laces, tape, braids, voiles, etc., into the now famous Katheleen Quinn House Dresses and Aprons. She fills orders not only in eleven dozens or fifty dozens, but three thousand dozens at a time. Her aprons are sold in the largest stores in America and as far as QUINN FACTORY, 1927 Panama. She has no salesman. She and her daughter, Katheleen, do all the buying and selling, drafting patterns, and managing the office help, and training the girls and seamstresses. MRS. QUINN maintains a staff of designers and drafters, but she oversees everything. In fact, the Quinn Factory is a woman's business. She can do any part of the work herself from the discreet, hard business deals with buyers, to the tiniest, daintiest seam work. Her FROM AN OGDEN KITCHEN TO FIFTH AVENUE task is stupendous. She says, "I am proud of my women. Several of them have been working for me since my factory started. In a large measure they have helped me succeed. They are now expert seamstresses." That is another fine thing Mrs. Quinn has done; worked out her ideas to help more women to help themselves. To the question, "How do you account for such popularity of your house dresses?" She thought a moment then said, "I believe that first of all it is the fine quality and exquisite workmanship. Some of my women are real experts, then too, color combinations are absolutely essential. I study hard to get the right color effects. I always loved color. Colors that do not harmonize have an ugly and depressing effect on me. I want only the beautiful." So beauty seems to be a prevailing idea in all of her work. Nimble fingers coupled with competent MODERN OPERATING ROOM, 453 judgment has made the "Quinn House Dress and Apron" attract nation-wide attention and praise. Thus Mrs. Quinn transformed the kitchen apron into a thing of beauty. She put thought, color and life into an otherwise drab garment and made her idea sell by the thousands to particular women everywhere. MRS. QUINN has eighteen patents on her aprons giving her exclusiveness as well as protection. Her daughter, Katheleen has recently opened a new sales store on Fifth Avenue, New York, where she sells to all points in America. She no longer takes a few dresses to town in the back of her car to peddle, but she supervises at her factory in Ogden the careful pressing, packing and delivery of cartons to her home town stores and every big city in the United States. Of her early trips to Salt Lake City she says, "I had real stage fright 1933  when I first Started to sell. I went past the door of a big store four times before I dared to enter. The first manager I asked turned me down. The next one bought. Today, to these same managers she answers phone calls, letters, telegrams, etc., saying, "You will have to wait your turn. "Once more woman has won a fight that shows the dauntless courage of her forefathers. A fight that is instilled in her daughter, Katheleen, who when she was in the big Eastern market the only young girl among hundreds of expert buyers and sellers, dared to put her mother's kitchen aprons before the whole world as the best apron ever made. She sold to the best houses in New York. So from an Ogden Kitchen Apron Factory to the most exclusive shops on Fifth Avenue, New York City, goes the Katheleen Quinn House Dresses. The Ogden Kitchen Apron is sold in the largest syndicates and chain stores in the entire world. In only seven years time with only five dollars as a start a brave woman proved that she could win in face of seemingly unsurmountable obstacles. MRS. ADA QUINN, who is one of a family of eighteen children, was born in Peterson, Utah, sixteen miles from Ogden, the daughter of Joshua Williams and Hannah Martha Green, who crossed the plains in 1862 and 1863. She married Edward Nelson Quinn and lived in Washington, D.C. for several years and has since made her home in Ogden, Utah. She has three living children. Howard, Kathleen and Robert. Mrs. Quinn Says, "From my earlier childhood, neatness and love of the beautiful were instilled in me by my mother. She taught us all to sew a fine seam in early childhood. "So from her parent's teachings and her own experiences in operating successful business she passes this worthy quotation to all. "The world is the same today as ever. Any one with an idea can succeed if she will not be discouraged by obstacles placed in his path or listen to people who say 'it can't be done.' You are not defeated until you acknowledge it." There is no depression in the Quinn Garment Factory. The world is a busy one and it still looks sky blue to Mrs. Ada Quinn.