Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in October) Christ's COMING AND THE MILLENNIUM 1. Christ's Coming Foretold. The Scriptures abound with statements relative to the second coming of Christ. More than 3,000 years ago the Psalmist sang: "Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestous round about him." (Psalms 50:3) Concerning the same matter Isaiah declared as follows: "The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose. It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and singing: the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, and the excellency of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory of the Lord, and the excellency of our God. Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees. Say to them that are of a fearful heart, be strong, fear not: behold, your God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompense; he will come and save you.... And the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and come to Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their heads: they shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away." (Isaiah 35:1-10) It is evident that neither of these prophecies has reference to the first coming of Christ, since "devouring" and tempestousness did not attend him at that time; nor had the "ransomed of the Lord" returned to Zion. Lack of available space prevents further reference to the almost numberless Biblical prophecies relating to the Master's second advent. 2. The word of modern Revelation is equally as emphatic concerning this transcendent event. Here are the words of the Son of Man himself: "Lift up your voice as with the sound of a trump, both long and loud, and cry repentance unto a crooked and perverse generation, preparing the way of the Lord for his second coming. For behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, the time is soon at hand that I shall come in a cloud with power and great glory.... I come quickly. I am your Lord and your Redeemer. Even so. Amen." (Doctrine and Covenants 34:6-12) Again: "Wherefore, be faithful, praying always, having your lamps trimmed and burning, and oil with you, that you may be ready at the coming of the Bridegroom?for behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that I come quickly." (Doctrine and Covenants 33:17, 18) 3. Signs of Christ's Coming. The precise time of Christ's coming no man knoweth, "neither the angels in heaven, nor shall they know until he comes." (Doctrine and Covenants 49:7) The world, however, is not without knowledge of the general time of his advent or of the signs that will immediately precede his arrival, as witness the following: "There shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars: and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea and LESSON DEPARTMENT the waves roaring; men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth: for the powers of heaven shall be shaken. And then shall they see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with pewer and great glory. And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh." (Luke 21:25-28). Again the Master said to his Church on the Western Continent: "He that feareth me shall be looking forth for the great day of the Lord to come, even for the signs of the coming of the Son of Man. And they shall see signs and wonders, for they shall be shown forth in the heavens above, and in the earth beneath. And they shall behold blood, and fire, and vapors of smoke. And before the day of the Lord shall come, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon be turned into blood, and the stars fall from heaven. And the remnant shall be gathered into this place; and then they shall look for me, and, behold, I will come; and they shall see me in the clouds of heaven, clothed with power and great glory, with all the holy angels; and he that watches not for me shall be cut off." (Doctrine and Covenants 45:39-44) 4. Regardless of the clarity of the Savior's word in this connection, there will be many unprepared for his coming. Here is the Lord's own word: "At that day, when I shall come in my glory, shall the parable be fulfilled which I spake concerning the ten virgins. For they that are wise and have received the truth, and taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived? verily I say unto you, they shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire, but shall abide the day. And the earth shall be given unto them for 491 theiy inheritance; and they shall multiply and wax strong, and their children shall grow up without sin unto salvation." (Doctrine and Covenants 45:56-58). Surely the foregoing promises should be sufficient to inspire all Latter-day Saints to good works: those who disregard these promises may very properly be characterized as "foolish." 5. Events at Christ's Coming. Immediately prior to the coming of the Son of man, "All things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people." Then, "Angels shall fly through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice, sounding the trump of God, saying: Prepare ye, prepare ye, O inhabitants of the earth; for the judgment of our God is come. Behold, and lo, the Bridegroom cometh; go ye out and meet him. And immediately there shall appear a great sign in heaven, and all people shall see it together." Following this most impressive spectacle, 'There shall be silence in heaven for the space of half an hour; and immediately after shall the curtain of heaven be unfolded as a scroll is unfolded after it is rolled up, and the face of the Lord shall be unveiled; and the saints that are upon the earth, who are alive, shall be quickened and be caught up to meet him. And they who have slept in their graves shall. Come forth, for their graves shall be opened; and they shall also be caught up to meet him in the midst of the pillar of heaven?They are Christ's the first fruits, they who shall descend with him first, and they who are on the earth and in their graves, who are first caught up to meet him; and all this by the voice of the sounding of the trump of the angel of God." (Doctrine and Covenants 88:92-98) Thus, when 492 the Master comes to earth?accompanied by "all the holy angels'"? the dead who have died in the Lord shall rise from their graves, and they, together with righteous people living on the earth, shall be caught up into the clouds of heaven to meet him. Truly a most glorious spectacle. 6. The Unfaithful. It will be impossible for the wicked to remain upon the earth during Christ's millennial reign, doubtless because of their inadaptability to such an environment. Accordingly, the decree has gone forth that they shall be taken from the earth. Here is the word of modern revelation: ?For the hour is nigh and the day soon at hand when the earth is ripe; and all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble; and I will burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, that wickedness shall not be upon the earth; for the hour is nigh, and that which was spoken by mine apostles must be fulfilled; for as they spoke so shall it come to pass; for I will reveal myself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand." (Doctrine and Covenants 29:9-11) Doubtless all this will be brought about in conformity with Divine justice and the highest good of the individuals concerned. The spirits of the wicked must learn of the goodness of God through the things that they suffer, and when the thousand years are finished they will be brought forth in the second resurrection to be judged and rewarded according to their merits. "They shall be servants of the Most High; but where God and Christ dwell they cannot come." (Doctrine and Covenants 76:112)  . The Changed Earth. During the millennium the earth will be vastly different from what it is at present. The final regeneration, however, will not take place until the thousand years have passed. Concerning the condition of the earth during the millennium, the Lord has' said: "Prepare ye for the coming of the Bridegroom; go ye, go ye out to meet him. For behold, he shall stand upon the mount of Olivet, and upon the mighty ocean, even the great deep, and upon the islands of the sea, and upon the land of Zion. And he shall utter his voice out of Zion, and shall speak from Jerusalem, and his voice shall be heard among all people; and it shall be a voice as the voice of many waters, and the voice of a great thunder, which shall break down the mountains, and the valleys shall not be found. He shall command the great deep, and it shall be driven back into the north countries; and the islands shall become one land." (Doctrine and Covenants 113:1923) It is thus evident that much of the waste land of the earth will be redeemed, also that the islands and the continents will be gathered together in one place. It is interesting to observe that in past geological time the geography of the earth has undergone great change: The boundaries of both the land and the sea have repeatedly experienced readjustment; climates have ranged from warm to cold; mountains have come into existence, only later to disappear; and deserts have sprung up where formerly there was fertile lands. In a word, the whole face of the earth has undergone repeated change. Thus, if Deity has done this in the past?by virtue of his control over the laws of nature? surely no one can reasonably deny his ability to make desirable read' LESSON DEPARTMENT justments in the future; both orderly and wide-spread. 8. Inhabitants of the Earth. Included among those who live upon the earth during the millennium will be both members and non-members of the Church. Satan, however, will be bound (Doctrine and Covenants 45:55), and conversion to the principles of righteousness will doubtless be much easier than at present. Those who still dwell in the flesh, and are quickened, will have the privilege of associating with those having passed through the resurrection. The Savior will be a familiar visitor among them. 9. Isaiah's Description. 'There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an old man that hath not filled his days: for the child shall die an hundred years old; but the sinner being an hundred years old shall be accursed. And they shall build houses, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them. They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat: for as the days of a tree are the days of my people, and mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands; they shall not labor in vain, nor bring forth for trouble for they are the seed of the blessed of the Lord. And their offspring with them. And it shall come to pass, that before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear. 493 The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the bullock: and dust shall be the serpent's meat. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my  holy mountain, saith the Lord." (Isaiah 65:20-25) 10. Temple Work. The Millennium will not be a period of idleness, but of intensive and intelligent activity. The Latter-day Saints believe that during the Millennial reign temple work will be emphasized and that it will be greatly facilitated because of the ease of heavenly communication which will exist at that time. After the thousand years of peace, will come the second resurrection and the final judgment. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Give your personal reasons for believing in the coming of Christ. 2. Why in your judgment has the Savior not revealed the precise time of his coming? 3. Relate in detail the parable of the wise and the unwise virgins. 4, Why in your judgment will the wicked not be permitted to remain on the earth during the millennium? 5. Why would the earth in its present condition not be suitable for the millennial reign? 6. In what ways may the gathering of genealogy be made easier during the millennium? Teachers' Topic HOLIDAYS HOLIDAYS are of great value, both in their moral and intellectual influences, and they have been the occasion for the expression of fine thoughts and high ideals expressive of some of the best tracitions of the human family. That is why these subjects have been selected for the coming year for the Teachers' Topic. It is believed that the discussions will be informative. Bright and interesting. 494 LABOR DAY OT the least important among holidays is Labor Day. Human labor is at once the leading agency in the production of wealth and the most important element in the wellbeing of a community. Cheap labor in any country means poverty. No people can be prosperous where labor is not duly recognized. Labor Day in the United States is a legal holiday for workers, first celebrated by a few states in 1887. It falls, with few exceptions, on the first Monday in September. Like many other holidays the spirit of the day really is the expression that found utterance in the guilds and trades union of medieval times. It was set apart by law in 1897 in about RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE three-fourths of the states in the Union, and is observed by meetings for the discussion of labor questions and parades are general. In Europe generally May Ist is observed as a labor festival and in London, Paris, and other cities demonstrations in favor of reforms are made by trades unions and similar organizations. If one would know a fulness of life, he will be one of the workers of the world. To labor is a Godgiven right and command. No greater expounder of this principle can be found than the Apostle Paul and other great preachers of the ' Gospel of Life and Salvation. There is no excellence in anything without labor. Literature (Third Week in October) LIFE AND LITERATURE The Novel A HUMAN DOCUMENT "The truth of humanity goes on forever, interchangeable and inexhaustible in the variety of its disclosures."?Conrad. LIFE is Man's great adventure. To understand the facts of: Life has been Man's supreme task through the ages. Through experience Man has learned the truths of human life. Zest for life recorded as "Once upon a time' preserved for the ages the epic experiences of races and heroes?The Siege of Troy; Ulysses, the Greek; Sigurd, the Volsung; The Rhine Gold; The Love of Tristram and Iseult; Joseph, the Hebrew; The Quest of the Holy Grail. Looking at Life, Man saw a definite pattern. Man, the artist, using the pattren and materials of Life created new combinations, experiences to illustrate the truths he had learned. This newest chapter in Man's Book of Literature is named "Fiction." Here the truths of Life are recorded through a series of imaginary facts. Scenes familiar and scenes strange are there recorded. There also is portrayed a gallery of human characters whose lives reveal the great passions that sway the heart of man?hate and despair and jealousy, love and truth and beauty, the problems of life and destiny?King Arthur, Sancho Panza, Falstaff, Hamlet, Faust. Pippa, Leatherstocking, Becky Sharp, Jean Val Jean, David Copperfield, Anna Karenina, Tom Sawver, Uncle Remus. Experiences real and imaginary LESSON DEPARTMENT have always been a source of pleasure and inspiration to Man. Imagination is the magic key that will unlock the great human record, Fiction, for Man's delight and inspiration: perchance?'To arrest Man, and compel him to gaze entranced ?a moment of vision, a sigh, a smile." How great then is the power of fiction. The Novel a Human Document HE novel is today's most prosperous literary form. The lifestory of the novel records humble beginnings, a youth of isolation and condemnation, the slow admittance to literary circles formerly denied, the rise to financial supremacy in the literary world of today. Storytelling is as old as the mind of man. The simple experiences of life took on heroic aspects when related to a sympathetic audience. The Greeks looked upon prose as useful only for everyday expression. The tale early took the form of the ballad (a short narrative poem adapted for reciting or singing) and the chanson des geste (shonson du zhest, songs of great deeds.) Medieval literature records few prose narratives. Bocaccio's (bok ka cho) "Decameron" did much to make the prose narrative popular. It was not until the eighteenth century that the way was opened for the modern novel. The English novel of the eighteenth century was a logical successor of Chaucer's "Canterbury Tales," stories of real people of the day against the contemporary background of the fourteenth century. And Malory's "Le Morte D'Arthur," tales of the legendary hero, King Arthur. "Robinson Crusoe," by Daniel Defoe (1719), the first great adventure story in English, gave tofiction the qualities of vividness, exactness of detail, and faithfulness to 495 real experience. Samuel Richardson has been called the first great English novelist. Being a moralist, the principal aim of his novels was to inculcate virtue. ?Pamela'' (1740) is the story of a virtuous young servant girl told through her letters. This work gave to the novel development a definite plot pattern and the element of sentimentality. Henry Fielding wrote "Tom Jones" in 1749, using a new pattern in the realistic record of the adventures of a hearty, vigorous, self-willed youth. Thus with definite characteristics and enduring qualities the English novel was sent on its way to attain great heights. The fiction of the nineteenth century was early marked by the romantic spirit. Romance reveals life, yet takes license with the facts to create a rosy-hued picture. As a revolt against classicism and formalism, the romantic spirit was in reality individualism or humanitarianism. Scott, the great romancer of "Waverly" fame created a great literary pattern through his historical romances. His worthiest followers through the century were Hugo, Dumas, Cooper, Stevenson, and Kipling. As men are all romancers, at heart yearning for realization this phase of fiction must endure. Realism is the greatest mode of expression developed by fiction. Realism has been termed a faultless mirror held up to a living world, rejecting nothing, altering nothing. The selection of materials becomes then the constructive or destructive element of this mode. The early realists, Dickens, Thackeray, Eliot. Meredith, Hardy. Were also great humanists selecting materials with intellectual and spiritual integrity. Each in turn portrayed the phase of human experience that stirred 496 him most; Dickens, the sufferings of humanity: Thackeray, the social follies of man; Eliot, the development of character: Meredith, the spiritual truths of life; Hardy, the power of destiny. Contemporary fiction pays tribute to the great modern realists; Wells, the Utopian socialist and scientist; Arnold Bennett, the portrayer of man "his own star" with self-control as his greatest source of power; Galsworthy, the disciple of -social justice; Conrad, through studies of men of many climes probes into the pressure of environment upon human behaviour: the Russian novelists, Tolstoy and Dostoevsky, explorers of the mind and soul of man. It is the stern veracity of the realism of a great novel that makes it a work of art. Fiction is the literary master of today. There is no doubt but that it will continue so to reign. It is the form most reflective of the complexity of modern life. Today's battle of books is responsible for some strange happenings. Today authors write to sell. Best-sellers may or may not have literary qualities; popularity is no indication of immortality. Much contemporary romance has become submerged in sentimentality. The pathos of romance is that it has become the literary vehicle to meet the human hunger for happy endings. The romantic tradition in all its beauty and truth is being followed by a few great writers today. Realism has passed from naturalism to barbarism through the unworthy selection of materials. The new experimental novel shows clearly two great influences, the influence of Russian fiction and the influence-of modern science. The morbid tendency of Russian novelists to soul consciousness coupled with the influence of psychology to become explanatory have directed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE modern fiction to deal in explanations. The experimental novel upto-date deals chiefly with the problems of the subconscious and the sex life of man. A characteristic of the novel of today is the fact that it has come closer to life, in that it portrays but a section of life, life goes on after the novel closes. Fiction has become a great educational force in the modern world. It is a creative art in that it creates something in its audience. Its universal appeal lies in the fact that it is "a criticism of life." Its great responsibility is that it should make one dream nobly, giving intelligible shape to the best of human desires. Great fiction cries to humanity. "Why doest thou wonder O Man, at the height of the stars or the depth of the sea. Enter into thine own soul and wonder there." George Eliot, Novelist INTO the challenging newness of Victorian thought came a master mind, George Eliot. It was the world of Thomas Carlyle, historian and essayist, Herbert Spencer, philosopher and scientist, and George Lewes, psychologist and journalist. As assistant editor of the Westminister Review in 1851, Mary Ann Evans earned their approbation by her intellectualism and philosophical attainments. When her first novel. "Scenes of Clerical Life" was published under the unknown name. George Eliot, they said a genius, the genius of a man. Life had prepared Mary Ann Evans with rich experiences to become the novelist George Eliot. The educational advantages of her youth with private tutors and in private schools provided an excellent preparation. The crisis in her spiritual life became a bitter reality when her liberality of thought came in LESSON DEPARTMENT conflict with the stern Calvinism of her beloved father. Then came the dramatic struggle of a romantic heart and a classical) mind. Her friends lovingly called her "Clematis,' a tender vine which must have a shrub against which to rest its grace. George Lewes, a brilliant journalist with a magnetic personality, became the strength to the vine. He it was who discovered George Eliot's genius and encouraged her to write a novel. Mary Ann Evans, a frail, sensitive creature from her own experiences, knew the weakness of the flesh and the triumphs of the spirit. Thus George Eliot, the novelist, occupied with the moral issues of life became a great interpreter of life?its hopes and despairs, its yearnings and disappointments, its triumphs and defeats, its joys and sorrows, its strength and its weakness. The rural novels, "Adam Bede,"' "The Mill on the Floss," and "Silas Marner" are the best of George Eliot's prose works. As a poet her strength and power is best represented in "The Choir Invisible." "George Eliot and Real Women" GEORGE ELIOT as a novelist of human souls and especially of the souls of women is the subject of an understanding essay by Henry Van Dyke in the volume "Companionable Books.'' Dickens did not accept the genius of George Eliot as that of a masculine mind when the authorship of "Scenes from Clerical Life' was questioned. He noted in the work the sympathy and insight of a woman's mind. It is a woman who stands out in most of the novels of George Eliot. In her gallery of women as wife, sweetheart, daughter, or sister we see the mystery and power of love upon a 497 woman's inner life of thought and emotion. In "Adam Bede," one of the saddest stories in literature is Dinah Morris, the Methodist preacher whose heauty of face and inner life are one; Hetty Sorrel, the sweetheart "made of roses" but "no better nor a cherry wi' a hard stone inside it'; Mrs. Poyser, the humorous motherly wife of the old farmer. The story is simple, a strong man loves the pretty face of an adventurer's sweetheart. Tragedy stalks in betrayal. To the beautiful Dinah comes the task of bringing the erring Hetty to repentance. "The Mill on the Floss" is an autobiographical novel. Its portrayal of the devotion of Maggie Tulliver for her father and brother, and her own erring love for the trivial Stephen Guest ends in the triumph of sisterly love. Dorthea Brooke in "Middlemarch," a story of middle-class lives in a country town, has been characterized as "a perfect woman, nobly planned." Romola in the great religious novel of the same name was in reality Maggie Tulliver again. Eppie, the goldenhaired girl who saved Silas Marner, the miser, is considered the brightest star in the gallery. The women of George Eliot are created with extraordinary skill, but it is upon the spiritual portraits of women who sacrificed for others that she bestowed her most loving care. Silas Marner; The Weaver of Raveloe "Silas Marner' is a beautiful idyll of country life in England about the year 1820. The author conceived it as a kind of legendary tale. It is in reality a poem in which Providence plays an important role. The theme of the novel has been expressed thus: "A hungering life, at first balked by adverse circum498 stances, wasting itself on something unworthy, often from pure ignorance as to where anything nobler is to be found?but after struggling, finally finding better and larger life and love. George Eliot intended to portray "the remedial influences of pure, natural human relations." Upon the title page of the novel the lines from Wordsworth are placed: "A child more than all other gifts That earth can offer to declining man, Brings hope with it, and forward looking thoughts." Silas Marner was a handloom weaver of Raveloe, a village in Warwickshire. Fifteen years before the story opens he had been a respected and earnest member of a dissenting church society which met in Lantern Yard, a northern manufacturing town. From his mother he had gained a little store of wisdom about the medicinal properties of some common herbs. A close friendship existed between Silas and another church member, William Dane. For many months Silas had been contemplating marriage with a devout young woman of the same congregation, at such time as their meager mutual savings should be adequate. Then came the theft of the church money. Silas was unjustly accused. It was decided to try the case by the casting of lots according to the custom. Silas was found guilty and cast off by the church members and by the woman he loved, who later married Dane, the guilty rival. Silas left Lantern Yard with his faith in God and man completely shattered, to settle later in Raveloe. In Raveloe Silas lived a solitary life. Working day in and day out at his loom he slowly amassed a store of gold coins. For fifteen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE years he had been growing less human and more miserly. The villagers meant very little to him. His only pleasure was counting over the gold which he kept in a hole underneath the floor near his loom. Then came the night when returning from the delivery of some linen he found the gold gone. In desperation he rushed to the Rainbow Inn and told the villagers gathered there of his loss. The facts of the robbery were not known till long after. The good-for-nothing younger son of the village squire, Dunstan Cass, was the thief. | Squire Cass was the greatest man in Raveloe. After the death of his wife, driven by loneliness he chose to preside in the parlor of the village tavern, the Rainbow Inn. His two sons, Godfrey and Dunstan grew up in loneliness and idleness. To the villagers Godfrey Cass was once a wholesome young man, fit candidate for the hand of Nancy Lammeter, a desirable mistress for Cass House. Of late Godfrey had been slipping. Dunstan was known throughout the shire for the sowing of wild oats. Godfrey had recently married a barmaid in a nearby town. Dunstan, knowing his brother's secret, made Godfrey pay heavily for his silence. Dunstan in need of money for gambling debts took Godfrey's horse Wildfire to sell. On the journey Wildfire was killed, and Dunstant in desperation stole Silas' gold and disappeared. Godfrey's wife after long neglect was making her way to Raveloe to announce her marriage to Squire Cass, when near the cottage of Silas the woman overcome by cold fell in the snow and died. The little child, Eppie, crawled from her arms into the weaver's cottage: "Silas seated himself on his fireside chair, and wag stooping to push his logs together, when, to his blurred vision, it LESSON DEPARTMENT seemed as if there were gold in the floor in front of the hearth. Gold!?his own gold, brought back to him as mysteriously as it had been taken away! He felt his heart begin to beat violently, and for a few moments he was unable to stretch out his hands and grasp the restored treasure. He leaned forward at last, and stretched forth his hand; but instead of the hard coin with the familiar resisting outline, his fingers encountered soft warm curls. In utter amazement, Silas fell on his knees and bent his head low to examine the marvel; it was a sleeping child around, fair thing, with soft yellow rings all over its head." The child touched his heart, and with the help of a good woman, Dolly Winthrop, he brought her up, calling her "Eppie." Slowly the people of Raveloe became kinder to Silas, helping greatly in his restoration to normal life. His spirit "began to feel the freshness of the world." The little ''golden head" made Silas forget the loss of his money. Sixteen years passed. The draining of the stone pits near Marner's cottage reveals Dunstan's body and the stolen gold. Godfrey Cass had married Nancy Lammeter after the body of Eppie's mother was found in the snow. At last Godfrey was constrained to reveal Eppie's identity. Nancy, upon hearing Godfrey's story, regrets that Eppie had not been adopted by them sooner since they have no children. Presenting their case to Silas, Nancy and Godfrey offered to adopt Eppie. Silas allowed them to speak to Eppie. Holding firmly the hand of Silas, Eppie made her choice, "because he took care of me and loved me from the first." Before the marriage of Eppie and Aaron Winthrop, Silas and Eppie visit Lantern Yard. The old place had gone, no trace was 499 left?the eternal process of redemption was complete. In the words of the author: "In old days there were angels who came and took men by the hand and led them away from the city of destruction. We see no white-winged angels now. But yet men are led away from threatening destruction; a hand is put into theirs, which leads them forth gently toward a calm and bright land, so that they look no more backward; and the hand may be a little child's." The character of Silas Marner, the weaver of Raveloe has been given a place in the gallery of the great characters of fiction. The novel, "Silas Marner," is now accepted as a classic; its appeal is universal. Many novelists have surpassed George Eliot as an artist, but in aspiration and vision she is surpassed by only the greatest of literary masters. Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. "The Story of the World's Literature,? Macy, Chapters 32, 35.  2. "Silas Marner," George Eliot. B. Program: 1. Reading: a. "The Choir Invisible." 2. Discussion: a. The Novel a Human Document. 3. Review: a. George Eliot, Novelist. B. Silas Marner. C. Objective: This lessons is planned to give an understanding of the art of fiction because of its significant place in the literature of today. ~  Social Service (Fourth Week in October) PIONEERS IN HUMAN WELFARE JESUS AND HuMAN WELFARE KNOW men," said Napoleon in exile on St. Helena, ''and I tell you that Jesus Christ is no man. Everything in him astonishes me. His spirit overawes me, and his will confounds me. Between him and whoever else in the world, there is no possible term of comparison. My armies have forgotten me, even while living, as the Carthagenian army forgot Hannibal. Such is our power! A single battle lost crushes us, and adversity scatters our friends.... What an abyss between my deep misery and the eternal reign of Christ, which is proclaimed, loved, adored, and which is extended over all the earth! Is this to die? Is it not to live?" One of the reasons why Jesus Christ continues to intrigue our interest and to draw our love, after two thousand years, is that he manifested such profound concern for people who were handicapped by sin' or physical or mental defects and that he taught principles which, wherever applied, have ameliorated their condition. Indeed, even those persons who do not believe in the godhood of Christ, accept wholeheartedly his social teachings as the highest ever advanced. In fact, these teachings, especially the spirit in which Jesus worked among those who needed his aid, constitute the basis of about all that has been done in human welfare activities since his time. It is this aspect of his teachings and practice, not the theology side, that we shall be concerned with in these lessons. 1. THE Facts IN THE LIFE OF JESUS ESUS was born inBethlehem, Palestine. His mother was Mary, and his reputed father was Joseph, although he was in a special sense the Son of God. One of the Gospels (Luke's) traces his ancestry back to David, king of Israel. But. Although Jesus was born in Bethlehem, he grew to manhood in Nazareth, which has been characterized as the most despised town in the-most. Despised province in the most despised nation on earth at the time. "Can anything good come out of Nazareth?" was the way in which Nathanael, unbeliever, put his objection to what Christ was doing among the people. And this was thought a sufficient "argument" against his work. An incident related by Luke shows Jesus to have been what we call today precocious. | While he was visiting Jerusalem with his parents at about the age of twelve, he was found by them talking with the wise men of the Jews, who marveled at his knowledge and wisdom ? which astonished and pleased Mary and Joseph. With this single exception we know nothing of his childhood and early manhood in Nazareth. But Luke tells us in the most general terms that "Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man." At thirty years of age Jesus entered upon his public. Ministry, which lasted only three years. But not before he had prepared himself by fasting and prayer and thought. LESSON DEPARTMENT This, it seems, was after his baptism by his cousin John, whose work had already begun. Forty days and forty nights, we are told, Jesus fasted in the wilderness, after which "he was an hungered." Then it was that the tempter came to him, to try him by appealing to the physical appetite, the love of power, and the love of personal glory. Students of the Gospels usually divide the life of Jesus into several parts. First, the Early Judean Ministry. He began his public work in Jerusalem at a Passover. Here he drove the money changers out of the temple; talked with Nicodemus about being born again; and, on the imprisonment of John the Baptist, withdrew into Galilee. Second, the Galilean Ministry. During this time he changed his residence from Nazareth to Capernaum; chose twelve men to be apostles, of whom six were humble fishermen; uttered those incomparable sayings that we are familiar with in the Sermon on the Mount; proclaimed the approach of the Kingdom of God, and foretold his own sufferings and death; was transfigured on the mount in the presence of three of his apostles; and became so popular as to excite the hatred of the Pharisees. Thereupon he returned to Jerusalem with a popular acclaim that added fuel to the flames of that hatred. Third, the Journey to Jerusalem and his work there. During this period occurred the raising of Lazarus from the dead at Bethany; the third prediction of his death and resurrection; denunciations against the Pharisees; and the tragic events of the Last Week in Jerusalem?the arrest, the betrayal, the trial before Pilate, the Crucifixion. Last of all, comes the Period of the Resurrection 501 , with the various appearances to the disciples, his instructions to the apostles, and the Ascension. The Mormon historian, of course, would add another period?the Ministry of Jesus among the Nephites and the revelations of him to Joseph Smith. Meantime, it should be said, two things ought to be noted in the Jewish ministry of Christ. First, Jesus grew in the favor of the masses from the time of his first sermon in the synagogue at Capernaum till he entered Jerusalem; but, as he became more and more popular, he drew down upon him increasingly the wrath of the Pharisees, who were determined, if possible, to destroy both him and his influence with the people. The cause of this popularity is not far to seek. To *begin with, he knew more of God and of his life than the Jewish teachers generally. Then, with this knowledge as opposed to their book-learning, went the idea that he spoke with authority. But more perhaps than either of these was the feeling in the multitudes who followed him that here was a man who loved them. There was a secret something in him that easily and quickly won their hearts. Second. As one goes over the details of the life of Jesus, one gets a clearer conception, as one reads, uf his mission as the Savior of the world. Perhaps this is due to the fact that Jesus himself had to lead the thought, not only of the disciples generally, but of his apostles, from vagueness to clarity. At first they had the mistaken notion that he was to deliver the Jews from the Roman yoke, whereas he had come to deliver them, and all men, if they would, from the bondage of sin and ignorance and the ills of both the flesh and the spirit. 502 2. SOCIAL CONDITIONS IN CHRIST'S TIME SOCIAL problems are at heart moral problems. When we raise the price of food because we can, not because it is necessary; when we take too much of the earnings of labor to the hurt of the worker because we have the upper hand; when we force poor people to live in slum districts where filth and ignorance and crime breed and fester; when we allow children to grow up undernourished and untaught?we are committing a moral as well as a social wrong. In the Old Testament, therefore, the word ?righteousness' properly covers what we today understand by the words. "ethics," "morals," and "justice." And so, when the major prophets, and some of the minor prophets as well, attempted to sere into the very souls of the people, especially of the leaders, the idea that God demanded righteousness, we have no difficulty in understanding the social implications of the sentence. "Wherewith shall I come before the Lord," cries Micah. "and bow myself before the high God? Shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves of a vear old?. Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams, or with ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? He hath shewed thee. O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee. But to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?' And Isaiah says, "Seek justice, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow." Undoubtedly, as Rauschenbush points out, the "sympathy of the Christianity and the Social Crisis, Chapter I. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE prophets, even the most aristocratic of them, was entirely with the poorer classes." Both Isaiah and Micah inveighed against "joining house to house and field to field," by which they meant the land-hunger of the wealthy; Amos condemned those capitalists who "'sold the righteous and the needy for a pair of shoes;" and others warned the judges in Israel against having one measure for the poor and another for the rich. But not only was the sympathy of the prophets with the poor; the law was made largely to protect the poor against the oppression of the rich. Every seven years the fields were to lie fallow, and whatever grew on them belonged to all, like our berries on the hills and in the forests. The owners of grain fields and vineyards were  cautioned against too careful harvesting of corners, so that the poor might profitably glean. A hungry man, passing a field, was at liberty to help himself ?not as a privilege, but as a right. Moreover, the laborer must be paid at sundown. The Sabbath was in reality a labor law. "that thine ox and thine ass, and the son of thine handmaid, and the sojourner may be refreshed." No slave could be held forever, and when he became free he was to be loaded with gifts that he might get a fresh start in life. Thus in ancient Israel "the manhood of the poor was more sacred than the property of the rich." And so, we repeat, social problems are moral problems, only on a large scale. It was on this excellerit foundation that Jesus built his greater social structure. 3. Social TEACHINGS OF JESUS AS the social standards of the Israelites before Christ were higher than those held by contemporary LESSON DEPARTMENT nations, so the social standards set up by Jesus were immeasurably above those of both the prophets and the law. First of all, his estimate of human worth, on which all social theory and practice must ultimately rest, was far above that of his predecessors. The prophets and the law, as we have just seen, leveled at all oppression of the poor, partly, it would appear, through compassion. Jesus put the matter on higher ground. The soul of the poor man was as precious as the soul of the rich man. As a matter of fact. He did not distinguish between individuals, when it came to measuring personal values in and of themselves. Here is the classical statement of the case: "For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" With this idea of the inestimable value of human souls, Jesus sent his apostles "to all the world" to preach the gospel to "every creature." It was probably with this idea in mind, too, that he rebuked one of the apostles for trying to keep little children away from him, instead of encouraging them, on the ground that thev "were of the kingdom of heaven." Furthermore, Jesus looked upon every individual as consisting of a soul, or spirit, and a physical body, both of which needed to be taken care of. The spirit was more important, because it was eternal and, therefore, could not be destroyed, like the body. "The life is more than meat, and the body than raiment." And this dual being was enjoined to be "perfect." even as God is perfect. And then, secondly. Jesus contemplated a new order of society, which he often spoke of as the King503 dom of Heaven. "Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as in heaven." There is no evidence to show that, by this phrase, he meant a political government, certainly not that the kingdom of heaven is something within us. The Jews of his time were looking forward to the establishment of a Messiahship, and Christ accepted this idea, with modifications, as the basis of his idea of the new social order. It was to be an order in which the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man should be the ruling principle. It goes without saying that this new social order contemplated marriage and the home. "They twain shall be one flesh''?this sentence represents the union of husband and wife in natural bonds, bonds of mutual love and purpose. And Jesus, contrary to the practice of not only the dissolute Romans of his time. But of his own people as well, was inflexibly opposed to divorce, except in recognition of an already broken union. "What God hath joined together, let no man put asunder.'' Also in the new order children, as in Jewish tradition. Would be "'the heritage of the Lord." and he who had his "quiver full" should be "happy." because he would not be ''ashamed." It would not be an exaggeration to say that the groundwork of Christ's social teachings is laid in this passage: "A certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? "He said unto him, What is written in the law? And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind: and thy neighbor as thyself. And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast answered right: This do, and thou shalt live. But he, willing to justify himself, 504 said unto Jesus. And who is my neighbor? And Jesus answering said? "A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him, and went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him;and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves? And he said, He that shewed mercy on him. Then Jesus said unto him, Go, and do thou likewise." (Luke 10:25-37) From the beginning there have been Christians who have thought that praying and reading psalms would save them, just as there are persons who would have us believe that waving a flag is the height of national patriotism. To such, apparently, these words were addressed by Jesus: "When the Son of man shall come in his glory, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: and before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats: and he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. "Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand. Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: for I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. "Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hunRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gered, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? "And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." (Matthew 25:31-40) But Jesus did more than teach. He practiced his own doctrines? that is, he helped those who were in need as occasion presented itself. To be sure, much of the help he gave is beyond what any mere mortal can do, for he performed many miracles in behalf of those whom he aided. It is the spirit. However, in which he worked among the poor that is valuable to his followers generally. His sympathy for the helpless went far beyond anything to be found in the men of the Old Testament. He built up the self-respect of the poor, for one thing, by noticing them and then ministering to their needs, while at the same time he either ignored or rebuked those who were in the habit of receiving attention. If, as he said, "the poor ye have always with you," yet he gave as a sign of his Messiahship the fact that "the poor have the gospel preached unto them." Every reader of the Gospels knows of his sympathy with the woman who put an insignificant sum of money into the contribution chest. "This poor widow," he said to his apostles, whom he called' specially to him for the purpose, "hath cast more in than all they which have cast into the treasury. For all they did cast of their abundance; but she of her want did cast in all that she had, even all her living." He gave succor to the physically handicapped. On one occasion "two blind men followed him, crying, Thou Son of David, have mercy on LESSON DEPARTMENT us. Then he touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith be it unto you! And their eyes were opened." (Matthew 9:27-31) St. Mark has this about the healing of a deaf man, who had also a defective tongue: "They bring unto him one that was deaf, and had an impediment in his speech. And he took him aside from the multitude, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spit and touched his tongue; and straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain." (Mark 7:31-36) In Mark, too, (2:1-12) we have a case of palsy healed, which is too long to be quoted here. Luke tells us (17:11-19) that as Jesus went to Jerusalem "ten men that were lepers lifted up their voices and said, Master, have mercy on us. And he said, Go, shew yourselves unto the priests. And as they went, they were cleansed." Here, considerably abridged, is a case of what we of today would call insanity, but termed by Mark "possession." (5:1-20) When Jesus "came out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit, who night and day was in the mountains, crying and cutting himself with stones. Jesus said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. And the unclean spirits (for their name was Legion) went out, and entered into the swine. And they that fed the swine came to Jesus, and they saw him that was possessed And their eyes were 505 with the devil, sitting, and clothed, and in his right mind." Perhaps it should be repeated that the purpose in giving these miraculous healings is to show the universal sympathy of Jesus for the poor and the physically and mentally handicapped. Jesus also indicated the attitude that should be taken toward the sinner. This is shown in such wellknown parables as "The Lost Sheep," "The Lost Penny," and "The Prodigal Son.'"' It is further manifested in his words to the woman taken in sin: "Neither do I accuse thee; go thy way and sin no more." He had no words of harshness, but only of compassion, for the sinner. To go out and find those who had broken the moral and social law?this was an obligation which he placed on his followers everywhere. Suggestions for Discussion From the four Gospels and Christ's ministry to the Nephites (Third Nephi, in the Book of Mormon) select the social teachings of Jesus. Every member of the class should read at least one of these references. In what ways could the Good Samaritan have been a good neighbor other than by binding the wounds and providing physically for the traveler? What traits of character did Jesus manifest in his relations with his fellow men? Name persons in history who have shown similar traits in their service to mankind.  Mission Lessons HEALTH AND HOME NURSING Lesson I?HEALTH AND HAPPINESS 'Today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness and every tomorrow a vision of hope."?From the Sanskrit. Happiness is necessary to happiness, now, and in the future. Great contributions have been made in recent years by science to safeguard Public Health. Annual physical examinations of adults and health examinations of school children have contributed much to the happiness of the world. We cannot say any longer that "My boy, John, is thin like Grandfather, and that Mary's cough is chronic just like Aunt Nell's." In these days we must know why John is underweight and do something about it. Perhaps Aunt Nell died of Lung Fever, now known to be Tuberculosis. We must no longer take things for granted?there is a reason why one child has repeated attacks of sore throat and another snores badly and sleeps with his mouth open. The Doctor can tell us why he is subject to sore throat! And what we should do about it. In like manner the causes of earache, bad posture, and frequent colds, may be discovered and proper treatment given. It may be possible in the light of modern medical science to find even the cause of Grandpa's rheumatism. In olden times, many people believed that disease was caused by bad spirits and witches, and they were more interested in who caused the illness than in any method of correction. Our ancestors carried charms to ward off disease. We remember the Asafetida bags hung from the children's necks. The Chinese build walls to keep bad Health is necessary to happiness, now, and in the future. spirits away and the Blacks of Africa still depend upon witch doctors. Modern science can teach us what to do if we would be well and happy. 'We must substitute knowledge for superstition. Prevention is greater than cure, and right living, cleanliness and sanitation are the true bulwarks against disease. "To cure is the voice of the past, to prevent, the divine whisper of today." Had we lived in the Fourteenth Century our expectancy of life would have been but twenty years. The average length of life was so short, that as late as the time of Napoleon it was only thirty-five years. Today, life expectancy has been increased to nearly sixty years, and our children may still enjoy a further increase. It is not that adults take better care of themselves now than in olden times, that the span of life has been so extended, but rather the fact that more babies are saved at birth and children better safeguarded in infancy. Science and medical education have not only lengthened the number of years of life for the vast majority of human beings, but have also taken away the fear of pain and many of the discomforts and handicaps of disease. The crippled child now has a chance, and the blind are made to see and the lame to walk. The first human beings were deeply concerned with their health; the history of medicine forms an interesting chapter in the story of the world's progress. Moses gave the LESSON DEPARTMENT Children of Israel some very definite rules governing the sick and those, "Thou shalt nots,' form an excellent guide to health and sanitation today. Jesus, the divine healer, spent much time blessing and "healing all manner of sickness and all manner of disease among the people." The ancient Egyptian priests were very proficient in the care of the sick and taught the Jews what they -knew of Hygiene. The Greeks were outstanding among ancient people, for their knowledge of the care of the human body. They developed some trained physicians and surgeons, who taught not only the benefits to health, which come from a strong body, but also that health is the royal road to beauty. The Romans established baths at most of the Thermal Springs in Europe to promote health and cleanliness. The remains of these healing stations still exist. Surgical and dental instruments have been found among the ruins of Pompeii rather similar to some which are being used in many hospitals today. Ancient Italy gave us great Anatomists whose descriptions of the structure of the human body are outstanding. France contributed the great Pasteur, who taught that disease is caused by small organisms, too small to be seen by the unaided eye. From him came the Pasteurization, or gentle heating of milk, to kill these organisms. And thus the lives of millions of babies have been saved. England gave us Lord Lister, called the father of surgery, because he was the first to apply the methods. Of sterilization, which methods have made modern surgery possible. In like manner each of the countries of 507 Europe has made its special contribution to health and hygiene. Medicine has advanced more in the last fifty years than in all the previous centuries of the life of civilized man, and the world is fast becoming a safer, freer, and happier place to live in. Smallpox, which once was a most dreaded disease, claiming the lives of great numbers of people?even many Kings and Queens of Europe ?now is almost a thing of the past. The Plague, which many times swept over Europe and Asia, killed millions of people. The death cart was once heard in the streets of all the great cities, with the cry of, "bring out your dead.'"' Now Cholera is limited to only a few cases in the largest of the port cities of India and China. Before the light of modern science, Yellow Fever, Typhoid, Malaria, and many other diseases have almost disappeared. Today we are protected by many health agencies. Since the World War, an international health organization exists, and assists health officers with local problems. We have organizations for the prevention of Tuberculosis and the study of Cancer; we have our great hospitals and infirmaries, well-trained doctors and sympathetic and intelligent nurses. At no time in the history of the world have disease and death had so many enemies. As individuals, we each have our contribution to make to this great epoch of progress. Our environment is such that we cannot live for ourselves alone?we must inform ourselves about the rules of health and sanitation?we must report diseases to the proper source and we must have the physical defects of our children corrected?we must 508 give more intelligent care to our sick at home and learn when to call the doctor. Early diagnosis may save life, and frequent examinations are imperative. A mere increase in knowledge is not enough to safeguard health and prevent disease. The knowledge must be interpreted, accepted, and practised by the people. Steering our ship of health for the right port, requires that we chart. Our course thoughtfully. Health is a matter of knowledge, plus discipline. We must know what to do, and then do it. It has been found that mental progress and physical fitness tend to go together?children who rank high mentally are, in general, enjoying excellent health. When a person is in good health, his whole body is in fine working order. He feels full of life and vigor, and radiates cheerRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fulness. A man's ability to accept life's reverses depends largely upon his state of health. Health is a greater boon than wealth, and happiness depends primarily upon it. As John Galsworthy wrote, "Substitute health and happiness for wealth, as a world ideal, and translate that new ideal into action by education from babyhood up. The intelligent cooperation of the public is the all-powerful weapon against disease. The common things in life are the things that are often the least understood. For the purpose of a better understanding of some of the common enemies of health and as a reminder of facts which may have been forgotten, these necessarily brief and elementary lessons on health and home nursing follow.