Young Mothers By Holly Baxter Keddington IF you have a tot entering school for the first time, these suggestions may help you. A kindergarten teacher says that all a 5 to 6 year old needs to know when he enters school is: to cross street alone, wash face, hands, clean teeth, comb hair, put on wraps, mits, galoshes, take care of self at toilet and be able to associate with a group. When I asked about the use of crayons, scissors, etc., or knowing songs, rhymes and games she said that it was not necessary?that the child was better off learning with the group. THE problem of socializing a shy child is often a very discouraging task and the hardship is not all on the teacher. No one knows the torture an unsocial child suffers when he sees other children entering into games, songs and the like, and he is not one of them. To get along with the children of his own age is a splendid lesson to learn early. Many children use the function of elimination as an excuse at school, but if mothers explained that public toilets (and school toilets are public) should be used only in emergencies, much of this trouble would be eliminated. If your child leaves the room more than the average, you should consider it a kindness if the teacher reports it to you. In such a case your child may have acquired a bad habit or he may need the attention of a physician. I believe every child should be informed of the danger of infection from contact with unclean objects. Teach him to be scrupulously clean in his habits so that if others are careless he will be safe. Hand washing is a splendid habit to encourage for a child so often puts his hands unconsciously to. His mouth and he does not know what undesirables they may harbor., My Compensation A song leaps up in a Mother's heart When a lad has chosen aright; Or when he brings a wee, rain-drenched bird Clutched under his sweater, tight. It leaps at the song a young daughter sings, A softly crooned lullaby, As she sits and rocks her play baby "Sleep baby, for mother is nigh." The heart fairly bursts with a glorious pride As a father praises a son, A tender pat on a worthy head; A smile for a task well done. These songs in a mother's tender heart As the last child climbs the stair Make life such a happy heavenly thing Hallowed with thankful prayer. Holly B. Keddington Notes to the Field ELIZA R. SNOW MEMORIAL CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENT, 1934 THE General Board conducts the Eliza R. Snow Relief Society Memorial Poem Contest annually. Two prizes are awarded ? a first prize consisting of $20, and a second prize consisting of $10. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Other poems of merit not winning special awards, receive honorable mention. ~The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, and to pay for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Relief Society Magazine, and closes October 15. Rules of the Contest 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written. 4. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. Only one side of the paper should be used. ' 6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 7. Statement should accompany the poem that it is entered in the contest. 8. The contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 9. Members of the General Board, and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest. 10. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 11. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 12. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15. 13. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. MAGAZINE CAMPAIGN OFFICERS, remember that our Magazine Drive will be from September 15th to October 15th. You should now be making your plans and preparations so that the Drive will be carried through in a business-like and effective way. WOMEN who value the Magazine and have salesmanship ability should be appointed as agents. They should look over the field, consider the conditions of their ward, and then plan to effectively and quickly put the campaign over. They NOTES TO THE FIELD should look over their lists carefully to see who is already subscribing and when their subscriptions expire. We deeply appreciate the effective work that has been done during the past year. Our subscription lists have risen markedly and we hope to merit the same loyal support during this next year. MANY schemes have been thought of by our different organiza-, tions for getting subscriptions. Can you think of something novel and new for this year? If not, try something that has been tested and found efficient in the past. WE publish herewith instructions to Magazine agents. We hope they will read them carefully. INSTRUCTIONS TO RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AGENTS Subscriptions. Payable in ' Advance: The subscription price of the Relief Society Magazine is $1.00 per year, payable in advance. Subscriptions will not be accepted at the Magazine office unless accompanied by a remittance, and Magazines will not be mailed to subscribers until the subscription price has been paid. In order to comply with this ruling and to avoid errors, subscriptions will not be taken by telephone at the Magazine office. Receipt Book, Use of: Agents should give each subscriber a receipt for money received. The agent should keep a record on the corresponding stub in the receipt book, of the name of the subscriber, the amount received, and the period covered by the subscription. This record will serve as a guide to the agent in soliciting renewals. Agents are supplied with receipt books by the Relief Society Magazine office upon request. Subscription Blanks, Use of: All subscriptions taken by agents should be written on subscription blanks. A separate blank should be used for subscribers in each town. Agents should be sure to give all the information requested on each blank, and to sign name and address on each blank sent in, so that a receipt may be mailed to the agent. Agents are supplied with subscription blanks by the Relief Society Magazine office, upon request. ' Give Complete Address: Agents will please give the correct and complete post office address opposite every subscription entered on the blanks, so that subscribers will not be disappointed and Magazines lost. A subscription for a stake or ward Relief Society organization should be addressed in care of an officer of that organization, who will be responsible to the Society for the Magazines. Change of Address: Requests for change of address should be written on a separate sheet and not on a subscription blank. Give the old as well as the new address. If it is necessary to change a name, give the name as it is now appearing on the Magazine, as well as the name as it should appear in the future. Renewals: When a subscription is renewed, give the name exactly as it appeared on the previous subscription. Be sure to state with which number of the Magazine the subscriber wishes to begin the renewal, so that two copies of the Magazine will not be received for the same. Month, or so that a number of the Magazine will not be missed. Complaints: Complaints should be written on a separate sheet and not on a subscription blank. Remittances: Money received for subscriptions should be remitted by 486 check or money order, made payable to Relief Society Magazine. Address of Magazine Office: Subscriptions and letters regarding subscriptions should be addressed to Relief Society Magazine, 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Agents: Relief Society Magazine agents give their services, without RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE commission, just as do other Relief Society officers and workers, and pay for their own subscriptions. However, in order that they will not be at personal expense, they may deduct the cost of postage and money order fees from the amount sent in for subscriptions. Notes from 'the Field LEWISTON FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Benson Stake: HE above picture represents a patriotic pageant which was presented in a program held in February by the Lewiston First Ward Relief Society. The pageant was arranged from the sketch, "The Gathering of the Stars," printed in the February, 1928, Relief Society Magazine. The pageant was very beautiful, and all those who participated in it were married women. Twenty-four of the group were mothers and some grandmothers. The program was presented in connection with the Work and Business Meeting, and there were over 105 guests present at the entertainment. Millard Stake: HE Relief Society Ward Conferences in the Millard Stake were most successful last year. The music and programs made a special appeal. In the report of the president, appreciation was voiced for the unity and hearty response of the sisters to the calls made upon them. Sunday eggs were donated during the month, and these were sold and the proceeds realized were used toward: Annual Dues and Relief Society Magazine subscriptions for those who could not pay for them.