you the dollar at once I 461 should very likely not have it. I never borrow from the future." As I passed the cactus on leaving, her words came back to me in their sweet cadence. "I can't smell them when I'm gone," and "I never borrow from the future." Leisure By E. L. Roberts Leisure? What a blessing? And a curse. Work is an unmixed blessing? The blessing of peace, all absorbing and unconscious. Draining every thought and act in one forgetful movement. It is sufficient and omnipotent, taking up all the slack Of mind's directing energy. It is Nirvana. But, Letsure? It is weakness and strength, peace and despair, heaven and hell. What a responsibility. Leisure? Freedom to seek easy companionship, Relaxing mind and morals and softening character. Freedom to let the senses play with pleasure, To let experience probe the depths and the delights of sin. Freedom that the mind may move in useless circles; To dream its fool dreams of achievements glory-laden; Or that it might enact the age-old drama of struggle, Where the dreamer wins and crushes with his heel; Or gathers greater glory by lifting vanquished with gracious gesture, And becomes twice the hero. This is weakness. Leisure? Freedom to contemplate the awful mystery of life And to plunge the soul into the reality of despair, The despair of incomprehension. Freedom to let thought invade the nest of Doubt, And tease the serpent until it strikes and poisons sweet Belief, Which dies and leaves life single and unattended In its mysterious course. This is hell. Leisure? Which frees the all-beholding mind, To fly about the singing universe in search of God, To leap from thought to deed and see God in it all. Freedom to play with beauty and with poetry and with art, To spread Love deep upon the Easel of the earth in finite colors. Freedom to plan new earths, And new heavens. These in turn to be replaced With newer harmonies. This is the leisure of noble moments, It is the leisure of God and is in His image. It is heaven. Relief Society Head in England We are sure our reader?