will be interested in the accompanying article taken from the Millennial Star of June 21, 1934, and the message to Relief Society workers written by President Louise Y. Robison and appearing in the Millennial Star of June 28, 1934.?Editor RELIEF SOCIETY workers in England, for the first time in the history of the British Mission, have had the privilege of extending a welcome to a general president of their Church-wide organization. On June 13th, Sister Louise Y. Robison, who for the past six years has directed Relief Society activities throughout the Church, landed at Plymouth for a brief visit to England. She is enroute to France to attend, as a delegate from America, the quinquennial meeting of the International Council of Women, to be held in Paris July 2nd to 12th inclusive. Sister Robison, with President and Sister Hugo D. E. Peterson, recently appointed to head  the Swedish Mission, was met at Plymouth by Elder Stephen L. Dunford of the Bristol District. From there she proceeded to London, where she received official welcome from President and Sister Joseph F. Merrill of the European Mission, and President and Sister James H. Douglas of the British Mission. Though London will be her headquarters during her stay in England, and will claim most of her time, it is expected that Sister Robison will find time to visit several representative Relief Groups in adjacent districts. Doubtless many of the British Mission Relief workers will have the privilege of meeting her and, in their assemblies, will receive the benefit of her experienced counsel in their organization problems. The selection of Sister Robison as one of the nine United States delegates, representing the American National Council of Women at the international meet, is considered a signal honor to the Latter-day Saint Relief Society, since the delegation will include some of the most representative women in America. Meetings of the International Council of Women are held every five years, and attract representatives from all over the world. Discussions aimed to promote peace and good will are given considerable prominence in the programme of the ten-day session, as the organization is committed to a policy of international peace. Subjects also expected to be treated include equality in education, opportunity in leisure, trends of the future, child welfare, economics, education, legal position of women, security through employment, international relations, social hygiene, and the place of women in the changing world. Lady Aberdeen, Countess of Tamar, who is president of the International Council, will preside over the coming Paris meetings. Sister Robison was sustained as president of the Relief Society of the Church on October 7th, 1928. Its seventh president. She is an outstanding woman, gifted with spirituality, love and tolerance, and a pleasing personality that endears her in the hearts of all who have occasion to meet her. Under her energetic direction, the Relief Society has grown and prospered, and its agencies of help and loving service have expanded to meet the spiritual and material needs of each RELIEF SOCIETY HEAD IN ENGLAND passing year. Her interest in social problems has taken her to many conferences and conventions. Last summer she was a delegate at the summer meeting of the American National Council of Women, held just prior to the dedication of the Relief Society memorial in Nauvoo, Ilinois. 463 Sister Robison is interested in the progress of women the world over. Consequently, she has a vision of great work to be done, and the courage to do her part. Her experience and the exalted philosophy of the Society she represents will make her a valuable advisor at the July meet in Paris. A Message to Relief Society Workers From President Louise Y. Robison INSHIP of people of the world is most realistic when a visit is made to the land of the birth of one's parents, where grandparents. Have lived; where they met life, courageously or otherwise; where they have died and were buried. There is a real affection for cities and fields where one's ancestors have worked and played, and in a measure this interest extends to the entire nation. Many Latter-day Saints have this feeling for the nations of Europe. From each country have come men and women who have built up the Church. Today, the descendants of those courageous forebears are lovingly and prayerfully interested in the Church policy of strengthening its organizations in their parents' native land. Today, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is offering to its members the same opportunity for their development as was given years ago to men and women who later became leaders in the Church. We have many illustrious examples. There are few children in our missions today who have a more difficult childhood than Brigham H. Roberts had. Without the privilege of education as a child, with the hardships of pioneer life as a young man, yet he became one of the most brilliant speakers and writers in the Church, known nationally and internationally for service to Church and country. The challenge is here for us today. The person who is willing to make the effort?and it requires effort? to study and understand the principles of the Gospel, plus the courage to live its principles, will become a leader, and leaders are needed in every country. Sisters of Relief Society in the European Missions are our members. We are interested in their welfare, and are eager to work for their advancement. Our prayer ls that they will leave to their children a record of service to humanity and of leadership in Church activities, as our parents from these same nations have left to us.