(To be Concluded) Aid for Our Project By Dr. Russell B. Swenson ORIGIN OF THE BOOK OF MORMON ACCORDING to the story of Joseph Smith and the eleven witnesses the Book of Mormon was brought forth in a miraculous manner. Through the instructions imparted by the angel Moroni. Joseph found the plates from which he translated the Book of Mormon. He accomplished the latter through the power of inspiration, and published the book in 1830. The men who assisted him most in copying the book and in publishing it were later known as the three and the eight witnesses. The former testified that they had seen the plates shown to them by an angel. The latter stated that they simply saw and handled the same under ordinary conditions. ORIGIN OF THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS THE Doctrine and Covenants consists of revelations given through Joseph Smith from 1823 to 1843. These revelations pertain to the organization, the guidance, and the spiritual and ethical ideals of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The bulk of them were given during the first six years of the Church's existence, from 1830 to 1836. During this period the main body of the Saints was in Kirtland, Ohio. Thus, out of the 133 revelations, 111 were given in and before 1836. Of the latter, the first 18 were given before 1830. These revelations were first bound together and called the Book of Commandments in 1833. Later these were revised and published as the Doctrine and Covenants in 1835 at Kirtland, Ohio. The later revelations were added in succeeding editions of the latter book. ORIGIN OF THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE THE first part of The Pearl of Great Price, the Book of Moses, was given as a revelation to Joseph Smith in 1830. The second part, the Book of Abraham, had its origin when the Prophet Joseph purchased some Egyptian papyri which were found on some Egyptian mummies. The Prophet states that they were in the handwriting of Abraham, written while he was in Egypt. The translation was called the Book of Abraham. ORIGIN OF THE OLD TESTAMENT THE Old Testament is really a miscellaneous collection of the sacred literature of the Hebrew people. The word Bible which we have given to the Old and New Testaments comes from the Greek word Biblia and means books. The Old Testament consists of poems, songs, stories, history, prophetic discourses, laws, proverbs, wisdom, meditations. The Jews had it divided into three parts: the Pentateuch, or the five books of Moses; the Prophets, and the Hagiography or Sacred Writings. This division points to the parts which were earliest regarded as sacred scripture by the Jews. The Jews in Alexandria included our Old Testament Apocrypha as part of their sacred scripture, but the Palestinian Jews never accorded AID FOR OUR PROJECT 469 them a position in their canon. By 400 B. C. The Old Testament was quite complete, but its exact text as we have it was not formally ratified by the Jewish scribes until about 100 A. D. ORIGIN OF THE NEW TESTAMENT THE earliest writings of the New Testament seems to have been the letters of Paul. Next comes the Four Gospels and Acts. Revelation and the other documents which are generally known as the Catholic Epistles were the last to appear. At first these writings circulated as independent writings in the different Christian Churches of the Roman Empire. As time went on and the Lord did not appear in his second coming, more weight was attached to the written words of him and his disciples. Accordingly collections were made of these which finally were compiled into our New Testament. The first collection seems to have been that of the Pauline epistles. Then the Gospels circulated around. Acts and the other epistles were finally added. Much dispute took place between various sections of Christianity as to the eligibility of Hebrews, II Peter, Jude, James. Canons added other books we now know as apocryphal. Finally about the middle of the fifth century A. D. The collection of New Testament books as we now have them became quite predominant throughout the Christian world. Books OF THE BIBLE Genesis: the book of the origin of things, i. E., the world, man, sin, and civilization. Exodus: an account telling of the oppression of the children of Israel in Egypt, their flight and sojourn in the desert. ? Leviticus: contains the laws relating to holiness. The name itself refers to the Levites the priestly caste of the Hebrews. Numbers: carries on the narrative of the exodus to the 40th year of the exodus. It takes its name from the census which was made of the twelve tribes. | Deuteronomy: The name means second law. "It records the events of the: last month of the forty years' wanderings of the children of Israel. The greater part of the book is occupied by the discourse in which Moses, before his death, sets before the Israelites the laws which they are to obey. And the spirit in which they are to obey them, when they are settled in the Promised Land." (S. R. Driver, Literature of the O.: T., p. 70) Joshua: tells of the conquest of Palestine by the Israelites and the dividing up of the land among the various tribes. It ends with an account of the closing events of Joshua's life. Judges: "The Book of Judges derives its name from the heroes whose exploits form the subject of its central and principal part." (Driver, Ibid, p. 160) It depicts the lawless disorganized state of the Hebrew tribes before the selection of a King. I and II Samuel: The two books were originally one book. Getting its title from the fact that Samuel is the prominent figure both at its opening and for some time subsequently. It begins with the birth of Samuel and extends to the close of David's life. Revelation, and II and III John as Sacred Literature. Also some 470 I and II Kings: deals with the reign of Solomon, the history of the two kingdoms, Israel and Judah, and concludes with the fall of the latter when Jerusalem was captured by the Babylonians. I and II Chronicles: like Kings originally formed one book. It treats roughly the same period as that of Kings, but it has a different point of view, namely, that of a more priestly ecclesiastical type. Thus it deals to a large extent with genealogies, statistical registers, descriptions of religious ceremonies, organization of public worship, etc. Ruth: was written to show more tolerance to foreigners. Thus the great illustrious David was shown to be the descendant of a Gentile woman. It more than likely represents an opposite point of view to that of Ezra when the latter was striving to have the Israelites give up their foreign wives. Ezra and Nehemiah: "begin exactly at the point at which the Book of Chronicles ends, and carries on the narrative upon the same plan to the time when the theocratic institutions under which the compiler lived were finally established through the labors of Ezra and Nehemiah." (S. R. Driver, op. Cit., p. 516) Esther: "shows how Esther, a Jewish resident in the Persian capital, Susa, rose to be queen of Ahasuerus." (Driver, Ibid, p. 478) It also relates how she saved her people from persecution and gives an account of the origin of the Jewish feast of Purim. Job: is a dramatic poem which tries to fathom the cause of human suffering. Behind the simple story of his sufferings lies some of the most profound thought in the entire Bible. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Psalms: are a collection of Hebrew poetry and songs of praise to their God. From the standpoint of literature they are the high point of the Old Testament. Proverbs: introduces us to the wisdom literature of the Hebrews. This wisdom had a special meaning. "It was applied to the faculty of acute observation, shrewdness in discovery or device, cleverness of invention... Their teaching had a practical aim: not only do they formulate maxims of conduct, but they appear also as moral advisers." (Driver, Ibid, p. 392, 393) Ecclesiastes: is also a part of Hebrew wisdom literature. It has a considerable amount of keen insight into the problems of life, but with a rather pessimistic point of view. "All is vanity. What profit hath man of all his labour wherein he laboureth under the " sun. Song of Solomon: is a poem of love which has been assigned to Solomon according to tradition. Its imagery is highly sensuous. Isaiah: is perhaps the greatest prophetic book in the Old Testament. Its spirituality, love of justice, conception of God are high points in Hebrew literature. He is especially bitter against the injustice which he sees among his own people. Jeremiah: is called the gloomy prophet because of his bitter invectives against the narrow religious bigotry of his day, and because of his predictions of national disaster at the hands of the Babylonians if Judah continued her unwise highly nationalistic policy. Like Isaiah he is one of the loftiest figures for his highly universal concept of God and for AID FOR OUR PROJECT 471 his stress upon individual responsibility in religious living. Lamentations: ''The Book consists of five independent poems, all dealing with a common theme, viz., the calamities that befell the people of Judah and Jerusalem in consequence of the siege and. Capture of Jerusalem by the Chaldeans, B. C., 586." (Driver, op. Cit., p. 456) Ezekiel: relates the prophetic utterances and religious thought of Ezekiel, one of the captives taken to Babylon. His conviction was "that further judgments were imminent for them in the future: and his anxiety to win at least the souls of individuals (3, 16ff; 33, 6ff) who might form the nucleus of the purified Israel of the future." (Driver, Ibid, p. 279) Daniel: "The book of Daniel narrates the history of Daniel and the visions attributed to him." (Driver, Ibid, p. 488) "Hosea prophesied in the Northern kingdom under Jeroboam II and succeeding kings." (Driver, Ibid, p. 301) His aim is to show the great forgiving love of God for erring Israel. Hosea's wife had been unfaithful to him, but he had forgiven her. Surely God would be equally compassionate to Israel. There will be punishment, but there will also be a bright future if Israel repents. Joel: is a book of judgment. He urges repentance before the coming of the terrible "Day of Jehovah". The people must have responded, for in the latter part he tells of the material blessings which God will pour out upon them. Above all will there be a great outpouring of the spirit of prophecy, and the terrors which will come will not afflict the Jews. Amos: sets forth the stern unflinching justice of God. He is especially bitter against the luxury and religious pride of the kingdom of Israel in the north, and shows the calamities which God is going to rain down upon all nations who don't live justly. Obadiah: This short prophecy is almost entirely concerned with the ruin which is about to fall upon the tribe of Edom, just south of the Dead Sea. Jonah: like Ruth is chiefly concerned to show God's love for non-Jews as well as Jews. It goes much farther in this respect than Ruth. As an exposition of God's love for all people it can't be surpassed in the Old Testament. Micah: was a younger contemporary of Isaiah. He "speaks as a man of the people, who sympathized with the peasantry in their sufferings, and he attacks, not indeed with greater boldness than Isaiah, but with greater directness and in more scathing terms, the ~ wrongs to which they had been exposed at the hands of the nobles and rich proprietors of Judah.. While Isaiah evinces a keen interest in the political movements of the time, Micah appears almost exclusively as an ethical and religious teacher." (Driver, op. Cit., p. 326) Nahum: The theme of this book is the fall of Nineveh, the capital of the Assyrians. He gloats over the downfall of this powerful city because of the past cruelty and harshness which it had exercised upon his people. He gives utterance to some extremely vivid and terrible pictures of the event he is describing. Habakkuk: is a sort of a dialogue between the prophet and Jehovah. The former questions the Lord about the violence and injustice 472 which prevails on every hand. The latter answers that the Chaldeans are to be the instrument of punishment for the above evils. But in the end the pride of the Chaldeans will be their downfall. Zephaniah: predicts the approach of the terrible "Day of Jehovah." Special condemnation is heaped upon Jews who were infected with foreign ways of life, who were corrupt with intrigue, and those who were religiously indifferent. Out of the coming trials a purified remnant will be loyal to God. These will dwell in safety in their own land. Haggai: attempts to enthuse the Jews who have just returned from the Exile to complete the temple to Jehovah. He shows that the drought and failure of crops is due to their neglect of this important duty. As long as the temple remains unbuilt they will remain an unclean people. Zechariah: was a contemporary of Haggai and cooperated with him in seeking to induce the people to finish building the temple. It has an earnest call to repentance in the introductory part. Then follow eight symbolical visions with an appendix (6, 9-15), "the whole being designed for the encouragement of the Jews, and especially of Zerubbabel and Joshua, respectively the civil and religious heads of the community, in the work of rebuilding the temple. The significant features of each vision are pointed out to the prophet by an angel." (Driver, Ibid, p. 345) The latter part of the book deals with Messianic judgments. Malachi: is a book of exhortation. He rebukes the priests for being neglectful of their duties, the people who made foreign marriages, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE those who questioned the divine government of the world, and those who had been neglectful in the payment of their tithes. He announced a day of judgment when Jehovah would appear to purify his unworthy priests and punish his guilty people. "The prophecy concludes with an exhortation to obey the requirements of the Mosaic Law, and with a promise of the advent of Elijah the prophet." (Driver, Ibid, p. 356) THE Books OF THE NEW TESTAMENT Matthew: This is the most Jewish of the gospels and contains the most elaborate collection of Jesus' teachings. Scholars think that it was written at Antioch a generation or two after the death of Jesus. Mark: This is the earliest Gospel, written presumably at Rome. It has very little of the teachings of Jesus, but lays great stress upon his miracles. It is noteworthy for its vigorous and vivid language; however, the latter is often quite crude when compared with the literary standards of the day. Luke: This is the most literary of the gospels. It is manifestly written for Gentile readers. Its outstanding features are: its stress upon Jesus' sympathy for the poor and the Gentiles; the parables of God's forgiving love, like the Prodigal Son; the prominence of the Holy Spirit; and the importance assigned to women. John: This is the most Greek of the gospels and was written most likely at Ephesus in Asia Minor. It is highly mystical and uses a great deal of allegory in presenting the life and teachings of Jesus. AID FOR OUR PROJECT It is notable for its stress upon love. Acts: is a history of the Christian Church from the death of Jesus until the arrival of Paul at Rome as a prisoner. Its purpose is to show the spread and expansion of Christianity throughout the Mediterranean world, especially through the ministry of the two chief apostles, Peter and Paul. It also has an apologetic interest, namely, to show that Christianity is not harmful but beneficial to the Roman Empire. Paul's Letters: The following are generally accepted as being written by him: Romans, I and II Corinthians, Galatians, Philippians, Colossians, I and II Thessalonians, Philemon. A few scholars question the authenticity of Ephesians, and most of them reject the Pauline authorship of I and II Timothy, Titus and Hebrews. Paul's letters are striking for the great intensity and enthusiasm of the author's thought and expressions. Each letter was written in response to a critical problem or question in various early Christian churches. They contain many references to the importance of Jesus' death and personality, but few regarding his teachings. They are the most human and spontaneous of all New Testament documents, and were written about a decade or two before the earliest gospel. I and II Timothy and Titus: contain advice and instructions for young bishops and elders regarding their qualifications for office and the way in which they should conduct themselves as leaders. Hebrews: was apparently written to the Church of Rome from Alexandria, The former is exhorted 473 to show itself a leader in teaching and religious living compatible with the glorious example of its former leaders and martyrs. Noteworthy features are its stress upon faith, warnings against heresies, the importance of Christ as the foundation of Christian salvation. The Greek of this letter is the most literary and elegant of the New Testament documents. James: is more like a sermon than a letter in its form despite the epistolary heading. Stress is given to living the practical ethics of religion, which is well summed up in the statement, 'faith without works is dead." It shows interest in democracy, philanthropy and social justice. The writer is very simple and direct in his language. I, II and III John: are letters written in the vicinity of Ephesus in Asia Minor. They show a strong relationship to the Fourth Gospel and were written mainly to combat the rise of an early Christian heresy.: I and II Peter: The former was written to the Saints in Asia Minor to strengthen them against persecution. To avoid suspicion and to give no offense they are to be obedient to government authorities and to avoid every appearance of evil. II Peter was written considerably later, some think about the middle of the second century. Its chief purpose is to combat heretical uprisings and to meet the skepticism of the day regarding the second coming of Jesus. Jude: was written some time before II Peter. Like the latter, its main aim was to meet the problem of certain Christian heresies. It has so many close resemblances to II Peter that scholars are of the 474 opinion that it was used by the latter. ' Revelation: was composed about the end of the first century A. D. Near Ephesus. Its purpose is to encourage the Saints to remain steadfast to Christ in face of the terrific persecutions which are about to befall them. It describes the end of the world, the overthrow of evil on the earth, the millennial kingdom, and the final judgment. Though its Greek is often crude and ungrammatical yet its imagery and dramatic power are unexcelled by any book in the Bible. BOOK OF MORMON I and. II Nephi: gives an account dealing with events from the exodus from Jerusalem to the death of Nephi in the Promised Land. Besides the narrative it contains prophecies and sermons, mostly by Nephi. Jacob: gives the account and teachings of Jacob, the brother of Nephi... Enos, Jarom, Omni: give brief accounts of struggles between the Nephites and Lamanites, the discovery of the colony of Zarahemla, Coriantumr, the career of King Benjamin. Mosiah: gives the sermon of King Benjamin to his people, the career of the prophets, Alma the Elder and Alma the Younger, or more especially, the conversion of the younger Alma and the sons of Mosiah. Alma: deals mostly with the career of Alma the Younger, his preaching, the work of Mosiah's sons as missionaries among the Lamanites, the Lamanite wars. Helaman: is concerned chiefly with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the corruption and intrigue of the Nephites, struggles against the Lamanites, career of Samuel the Lamanite. III Nephi: describes the appearance of Jesus to the Nephites, his preaching, institution of his church and its ordinances. IV Nephi: relates the years of millennial peace and prosperity which succeeded the appearance of Jesus to the Nephites. Then after about 230 years evil and dissension arose once more, causing the division of the people into Lamanites and Nephites. Mormon: gives an account of the career of Mormon and his wars with the Lamanites. Ether: relates the story of the Jaredites, their migration to this land from Babel, their rise and downfall as a mighty people. Moroni: contains formulae for ordination of priests and teachers, the administration of the sacrament, some letters of Mormon to Moroni, and the final farewell of the latter as he finishes the book. = THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE The Book of Moses: contains an account of "the words of God, which he spake unto Moses at a time when Moses was caught up into an exceeding high mountain." It tells of the purpose for which God created the universe, the creation, rebellion of Satan, the fall of Eden, career of Cain, ministry of Adam and Enoch. The Book of Abraham: describes the career of Abraham, his youth, education, experiences in Egypt where he was almost sacrificed, his knowledge of astronomy which he received from the Lord, and an account of the creation.