[column 2]
politics.  How can the rights of women, or
any other just thing, come from men who
cannot, or will not, state the opposing side
fairly and tell the honest truth?—Ex.

	WE are glad to know that the law giving
women the right to vote for school officers
is to go before the Supreme Court in due
form.  The case is sent up from Mt. Vernon,
Ill., where two men were defeated by two
women, and they take it to heart.  We do
not know what are the points at issue, but
if it is on its merits the boys will have to
stay on the outside.—Illinois Suffragist.

ELECTRICITY is measured by volts, ohms,
amperes and watts, which terms are now
frequently seen in the ordinary periodical.
The volt is the unit of electrical pressure;
the ohm is the unit of resistance; the am-
pere is the unit of the strength of the cur-
rent and the watt is the unit of power.
The volt acting upon the ohm produces the
ampere and the watt is the unit of strength
multiplied by the unit of pressure.  A kilo-
watt is one thousand watts and equivalent
to about one and one-third horse power.

	A stock company has been formed by the
Board of Lady Managers of the World's
Fair, and its successful operation will be a
boon to women visiting the Fair.  The
company is known as the Woman's Dormi-
tory Association of the Columbian Exposi-
tion.  Shares are being sold at $10 each, no
person being allowed to hold more than
$100 worth.  Presentation of a certificate
entitles the owner to lodging at the apart-
ments of the Association while in attend-
ance at the Fair, the face value of the cer-
tificate to be applied toward pagment.  The
holders of certificates are entitled to a share
in any profits that may accrue.

	Mr. Josiah Quincy was lately interviewed
in regard to his opinion on woman suffrage,
by the New Your World.  The World
says:
	When he was asked if he thought it was
a fine thing for women to be entering the
political field and "whooping up" cam-
paign issues for the parties which they
favored, he replied:  "If you want my
opinion, take it down as I give it to you."
What follows, therefore, is Mr. Quincy's
view on the subject as dictated by him-
self:
	"I am a believer in woman suffrage, and
am for any movement which leads up to
it.  I see no objection to the participation
of women in politics.  I believe it would
be a wholesome and beneficial thing if more
political thought and interest could be stimu-
lated among them.
	"In spite of women having no votes they
possess important influence on any subject
to which they may devote their attention,
and they help in the promotion of public
opinion.—Ex.


