MEXICAN MISSION.
	The fifth quarterly Conference of this
Mission was held in the spacious school-
house at Colonia, Juarez, Chihuahua,
Mexico, on Monday, August 29, 1892.
President Mary Eyring presiding. There
was an excellent attendance, several of the
leading brethren of the Mission favored us
with their presence, Apostle George Teas-
dale, Patriarch Henry Lunt, A. F. Mc’
Donald of the Presidency of the Mission,
Bishops George W. Sevey of Juarez, Wins-
low Farr of Dublan, Jesse N. Smith Jr. of
Pacheco, and others.
	The hymn “Lord we come before thee
now,” was sung. Prayer was offered by
Bishop Sevey, singing ‘Glorious thinge are
sung of Zion,” and minutes of the last
Conference read and approved. Then fol-
lowed the reading of the half yearly reports.
	President Mary B. Eyring, after expres-
sing the happiness she enjoyed in her labors
and the steady progress being made by the
Society; exhorted the sisters to be faithful
and true to the trust reposed in them, in
fulfilling all the obligations of true woman-
hood. Sister Mary Porter of Pacheco,
Emma Barber of Diaz, Ida J. Mortensen of
Dublan, and Susan Martineau of Juarez,
represented the ward branches in good pro-
gressive condition.
	Counselor Cynthia Stowell and Ellen
Lunt addressed the Conference in an ex-
cellent spirit, President A. F. Mc’Donald,
Bishop G. W. Sevey and President George
Teasdale made very encouraging remarks.
The subjects treated upon were, the valued
labors of the officers and members of the
Relief Society; the gathering together of
earnest women interested in the establish-
ment of righteousness upon the earth, and
acting as ministering angels by precept and
example,encouraging the virtues of modesty,
purity and chastity; visiting the widow and
fatherless in their afflictions, and keeping
themselves pure and unspotted from the
world, being full of integrity to the Gospel
of our Lord Jesus Christ; woman’s greatest
mission being to assist in the establishment
of righteousness upon the earth, for which
she is so qualified by nature.
	The authorities of the Relief Society of
the Church and of the Mexican Mission
were unanimously sustained, and the Con-
ference adjourned until Monday, November
28, 1892.
	The benediction was pronounced by
Patriarch Henry Lunt. We had an excel-
lent Conference.
			M. E. TEASDALE, Sec.
	P. S.	In the spring we had heavy frosts
and it was anticipated all the fruit was
destroyed but thanks to our Heavenly


Father we have had an abundance of fine
blackberries, peaches, plums, grapes, a few
strawberries, apples and pears.  Larger and
more luscious peaches than we have had
would be difficult to find any where.
	More grain was raised here this year than
ever before notwithstanding the dry season.
We have lately had a number of nice rains
that have raised the water in the river and
started the grass.
	We feel greatly blessed and encouraged,
and that this is a good country for Latter-
day Saints.
							M. E. T.


Editor EXPONENT:
	President Anna L. Ivins of the Relief 
Society of the St. George Stake, realizing
the necessity of the branches in the North
Western settlements being visited, previous
 to our September conference, and not being
able to make the trip herself, it was decided
her Counselors Ann C. Woodbury and
Hannah M. Miles should make the trip.
	Accordingly on the 13th of August,accom-
panied by Counselor Mary G. Whitehead of
the Primary of this Stake, we left St. George
for Gunlock where our first opportunity for
meeting was 4 p.m., and notwithstanding
a number of the sisters were away from
home and others had sickness in their
families, we had a good meeting, Elizabeth
Truman presiding; and although this settle-
ment is not on the main road and in con-
sequence is visited but seldom, the sisters
are awake to their duties.  On the morning
of the 14th we continued our journey over
one of the worst roads that can be imagined,
to Pine Valley where we held meeting at 
4 p. m.  Dorinda Slade presides over the 
Relief Society; Bishop William Gardner
met with us, and while but few were in at-
tendance a most excellent spirit prevailed. 
	At 6 p. m. we met with the Primary, 
which is ably conducted under the watch 
care of Cynthia B. Gardner.
	On the 5th, after traveling sixteen miles, 
we were welcomed by the people of Pinto
where meeting was held with the Relief
Society at 2 p. m., Mrs. Ann Knell, Presi-
dent; the Bishop of this ward Robert Knell,
was present at our meeting.  We had a
very good time this being one of the settle-
ments where the people live at home and 
board themselves, their land produces grain
and vegetables sufficient for their own wants
and to spare, they have herds of cattle, some
fine houses, in addition to which they have
a good sheep herd; so that they have their
own beef, pork, butter, cheese and plenty
of wool for their clothing; in fact I do not 
know of a more self-sustaining community
than Pinto in this Stake of Zion.
	After meeting we proceeded to Hamlin
a branch of the Pinto Ward, and at 7 p. m.
met with Relief Society and Primary com-
bined; as the place is small the audience
was small, but good attention was paid to
what was said, and I feel that good was ac-
complished.  On the 16th we proceeded to
Hebron, this is another place where the 
people are engaged in the stock business.
many had moved out to their ranches, the 
town is nearly deserted, the floods having
left them without water for their gardens or
for culinary purposes, except what is
hauled from a distance; all of which how-
ever will be overcome in the near future as
the poeple contemplate a reservoir at an ex-
pense of $10,000 which when completed
will furnish water for land already fenced
and for hundreds of acres of good quality
now lying idle just below the village, and

