[column 2]
as much news as reports of crime, and more
worthy of record by the public press.
	This referred resolution was left by the
junketing editors to die a natural death.
The editors were going out that evening,
probably under police escort, to the China-
town slums, or some other equally interest-
ing and filthy city suburb; and, by the way,
what is the reason that the Eastern people
have such a ravenous appetite to see the
slums of San Francisco?  Do they return
the compliment by trotting out California
visitors to their Barbary Coasts?  They
crowd into the suffocating Chinese theatre
and endure smells enough to foster all the
microbes that may be floating about, and
make nests somewhere about their persons.
They tramp up and down alleys and by-
ways, and underground dens, with the
most persistent curiosity.  And then they
say, “Oh, my! how can you endure it?”
I believe they generally call the object of
their visits “scabs on the body politic,” or
some other equally euphonious name.
	We don’t endure it.  We don’t go to see,
hear, taste or smell it.  But this is a di-
gression.
	Alice Carey Waterman led off in a brisk,
pertinent, incisive paper on “Resolutions
as Levers,” said what she had to say, said
it well, covered her points, drove them in
and sat down within the time limit.  Then
the resolution of Miss West was stood up
to be snowballed, and the way those wo-
men went at it, giving a dig now and then
in a sly aside at the National Editorial As-
sociation, was a revelation.  The Press as
an Educator—What constitutes News in a
Weekly Paper—News or Gossip?—Theory
and Practice—Limitations of a Country
Editor—The Survival of the Fittest—News
from the Editor’s Standpoint—Ditto from
the Reader’s Standpoint—Reporter, Fashion
Editor, Story Writer, Dramatic Critic, etc.,
etc.—all that goes to make up a paper.
Every spoke in its wheel revolved round
that resolution.  What did they say?
What did they not say? They talked to 
some purpose.  Criminal advertisements
brought out a scorching, scathing rebuke;
those not openly criminal, but the “Mas-
sage,” the “Fortune teller,” the “Meet me
at Nine o’clock,” the ads. wrapped up in
insinuations of how to be beautiful.  These
were unrolled, and their hidden poison un-
veiled.  It was news to some there, it was
evident.  But the probes were covered with
a delicate lace of words that conveyed mean-
ing without coarseness, that cut to the
quick like a surgeon’s lance, but were as
carefully handled.
	The necessity and advantage of news—
as news—was discussed with a keen sense
of the distinction between news and gossip.
The Bible was as full of revelations of sin,
murder and licentiousness as of the records
of heroism, virtue and righteousness.  Cain
was there, but Cain’s punishment was great-
er than he could bear.  The retribution was
held up as well as the crime.  Ergo: it was
well not to hide crime, lest it might escape
punishment.  Next, news-papers supplied
the demand.  If the demand was for the
prize fight it was the fault of the people,not
the paper, What made the paper—the
people?  or did the public make it?
	Sunday papers and their moral or immor-
al effect on the rising generation, etc.
	It was a ringing, clear, loud call for re-
form.  It was a justification of editorial
concession.  It was an exposé of the control
of corporations,of fees to lawyers—shysters,
rather—it was a noble defense of the honest

[column 3]
lawyer, of the conscientious controllers of 
the press.  It was an admission of its weak-
ness, it was a supporter of its strength.
And who are the women who constitute
the strength of this association?  Perhaps
some day I may individualize them.  They
are worth it.  But they are reticent,modest,
do not seek notoriety.  There is variety
among them, without which there would 
be no spiciness.  Some of them are well
known as writers, editors, journalists,
authors, poets and philanthropists.  Some
are unfledged as yet, but they will fly one
of these days.  They are not all gifted, all
wise, all learned,but the material is beyond
praise, and the unknown and uninvited
visitor passed out with a deep respect and
great appreciation of the Pacific Coast Wo-
men’s Press Association.—The Journalist.


