SOCIAL REUNION.
---
	A SOCIAL reunion was held on Sept.4,1892,
at the Fourth Ward meeting house,Provo,by
the Relief Society of that ward, for the pur-
pose of sealing up their Jubilee Box; which
it is designed will be opened by the mem-
bers of this Association twenty-five years
hence.
	Singing from L. D. S. Hymn Book.
Opening prayer by Sarah E. Cluff. The
President, Sister Watson, made the opening
remarks, announced the object of the meet-
ing, and greeted all present.
	The papers, principally historical in char-
acter, that were read and deposited in the
box were as follows:
	Minutes of the first primaiy meeting,
together with the organization, was read by
Sister Jane B. Snyder, present President.
Also minutes of the last meeting, together
with a sketch of its progressive steps,
and the sentiments and blessings to those
to whom the paper was addressed. This
association also deposited in the box a bound
vol., Junvenile Instructor No. 26, and the
three children of Sister Sarah E. Cluff,
vol., 25, same publication, a gift to the
Primary Association at the time of opening
the box.
	Sarah E. Cluff read a paper on the first
organization of the Relief Society of that
ward, which occurred on May 1st, 1868.
Gave the names of the officers, and those
who made the organization. All important
changes were noted, and closing remarks
breathed a spirit of love and harmony.
	General address written by Delia Ina
Booth, and addressed to those who should
open the box was read.
	Bishop John E. Booth addressed the as-
sembly, expressed his pleasure in and ap-
proval of what the sisters were doing. Did
not anticipate being present when the box
was opened, but could readily perceive that
it would be an hour of exquisite joy and
sorrow. Was sorry that there were  ecclesi-
astical organizations in the ward as well as


individuals who were not represented, and
fancied that some who came to see the box
opened would turn sadly away and feel that
they had been forgotten or neglected.
Wished to see all the members of the wa
drawn close together, and be one in heart.
	He was followed by Brother Andrew
Watson (Counselor) Sister Mary John,
President of all the branches of the Relief
Society of Utah Stake, Anna K. Smoot
President of the Primary Association, Emily
G. Cluff, Counselor to Sister John, and
Mary and Agnes Farr, and others.
	There was also a history of the ward by
Bishop John E. Booth; pictures of the offic-
ers of nearly all the Church organizations,
books, letters, mementoes etc., deposited in
the box. The dedicatory prayer was offer-
ed by Bishop Booth,and the honor of finally
closing up the box was delegated to Brother
William Harrison.
	In the evening a fruit festival was given,
which was well patronized, and a thorough
success.
							E. J.


