W. S. A. SPRINGV1LLE.

	A MEETING of the Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion held in the Springville meeting house, Sept.
22, 1892. President S. A. Boyer in the chair.
Singing “Come, come away.” Prayer by Mrs.
Straw. Minutes read and approved. President
Boyer said, “We have met to hear and study the
Politcal Status of women, the women of America
are free in every sense except before the law.
Wished to hear from the Ter. Pres., Sarah M.
Kimball. Mrs. Kimball said her presence here
showed her feelings; did not believe in ignorant
votes, thought men were not posted as they
should be. The business of today is for women
to educate themselyes so as when they have the
ballot they may be able to vote for the best good
for the town or city in which they live, for the
Nation, and for the best good for the greatest
number, that all should be able to vote for the
best good of the many. The ideas of the best
and broadest-minded men of today, are that wo-
men should be recognized in politics. As for the
World’s Fair, we should not prepare our costume
or wardrobe, but wait until we see what is de-
cided by the Committee appointed on Dress Re-
form, and if accepted wear it, that is for those
that wish to. She honored those men that upheld
the Constitution in believing all to be free and
equal before the law, and they would be honored
in the future. 
	Mrs. Emily Richards said men and particularly
men reporters scared her, spoke of suffrage being
such a hard name, encouraged women to try and
fit themselves so as to be true companions for
their husbands, would like to see every woman
come here as intelligent beings ready to receive
the ballot, that we should prepare ourselves to
join hands with the women of the world and be
honorably noted as women of Utah. We are an
organized body and should go ahead and work
systematically and on a basis with men, prepare
yourselves for the ballot and you will get it. If
the simple fact of going to the polls and voting is
so degrading, go and help purify them. If wo-
men, as they do, have to earn their own living,
educate them that they may earn it in the most
respectable and beneficial way. Did not believe
in neglecting duties at home, but we forget that
all women do not have homes and families, when
we have it is the family first and then all else, we
can. Turn our social entertainments into some
kind of meeting to instruct ourselves. She urged
all to go to the World’s Fair that could. Was
very well pleased with the organization in Spring-
ville. 
	Song by Miss Nellie Holley, “The Bridge."
Ex-Mayor Booth of Provo, said, President, wo-
men and men.: His impression was, there was a
great deal expected of him but was afraid they
would get disappointed, did not remember when
he was converted to suffrage, but it was before he
ever heard of it, always believed it, and always
advocated it. In April 1882 a state convention
was held in Salt Lake, some of the ladies did ex-
cellent work in committees, thought women
would do much better work now because they
were better posted; believed good results would
come from harmony in Politics as well as the
home. That in 1847 the first laws of Utah
were participated in by woman, and that the wo-
men of Utah were the pioneers in this move of
Suffrage. Thanked the women for saving the
whole Territory from being disfranchised,through
their influence. The true make up of man is
physical, mental, and spiritual. That women are
spiritually man’s superior, that men always excel
in all higher callings, but there are more good


