W. S. A. REPORT.

	On September 28, 1892, the Woman Suf-
frage Association of Ogden City met in the
Educational Institute of the Fifth Ward.
	Mrs. E. Y. Stanford presiding at the re-
quest of President Brown whose health did
not admit of her being present. Sarah
Richards offered an appropriate opening
prayer, Ella Smith Winters read an essay,
her own composition from a back number
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT entitled “Wo-
man’s mind equal to man’s.”
	Mary Cole next entertained the ladies
with the “Song that reached my heart.”
This young lady is one of the sweet singers
on the Weber and her effort on this occasion
was enchanting, it “reached the heart of
all.”
	The Hon. Joseph Stanford was then in-
troduced as having been solicited by the
committee to lecture before the association.
	This gentlemen said it was well known
that he was in sympathy with, and an ad-
vocate of woman suffrage and he advised a
persistent, firm advocacy on the part of wo-
men for the right of franchise. It was woman’s
privilege to be elevated to the possession
and enjoyment of all that man aspired to
attain to in an intellectual and useful life.
There existed in woman’s nature and being
all the attributes, faculties and senses to be
found in man, why should they remain in
her dormant, uncultivated and undeveloped.
	It would add much to the sweetness of
man’s existence and the pleasures and in-
fluence of home to make her his companion
in the broader sense of the term. He be-
lieved that when the sexes come together
nearly on an equality in education, where
the woman’s mind had been trained and
informed on all subjects accessible to man
that she would make a better wife and
mother, than the untutored and unculti-
vated and consequently ignorant mother
could possibly do; posterity would also be
benefited by such equality for as features,
traits in character and physical defects are
in part transmitted to posterity, so are the
good parts and qualities of our being, and
what greater boon or legacy can parents
confer upon offspring than the benefits de-
rived from their mutually developed mental
and moral natures.
	The speaker made extensive references to
events in the past history of the world in
support of the theory of the ability of wo-


man to become the equal of man, also to
the experience and philosophy of the pro-
fessors of anatomy on the brain power of
both male and female.
	He advised a pacific policy towards the
male sex,so as not to antagonize their cause
with man by hostile speeches and addresses
because some men are opposed to Woman
Suffrage, many men did so oppose in all
sincerity and honesty, having a high regard
for woman and a wish to preserve her
especially from the crude, ungovernable
passions and unclean distasteful habits ex-
hibited by many men who engaged in
political and other pursuits common to pub-
lic life; such opponents at the present over-
look the fact that woman's presence would
cleanse and purify the ranks and elevate the
tastes and feelings above such practices.
	He remembered as good doctrine an
article in the Deseret News suggesting to
the ladies of these associations not to ally
themselves to either political party, they
had nothing to gain by so doing but on the
other hand, for reasons which the speaker
gave, they might prejudice their cause.
	A vote of thanks was tendered Mr. Stan-
ford for his able, instructive and entertain-
ing lecture.
	The subject of the World's Fair was then
taken up and considered and the ladies
present were urged to attend a meeting
called by the ladies committee of Weber
County to be held in the City Hall on
Saturday next.
	Vice President, Mrs. Hilliard suggested
that the committee on programme arrange
for a suitable recognition to be made in
reference to the 4th century anniversary of
the landing of Columbus, at our next meet-
ing.
	The event would be celebrated on the
21st of October throughout the whole of
America. Several new members were
added to the association. By the attend-
ance at this meeting, much the largest ever
held in Ogden, it was evident that an in-
creased interest is being awakened in the
rights of woman in this locality.
	Meeting adjourned for one month.
