[Column 2]
	But O, the wondrous melancholy in the
words "fare well." Especially when realiz-
ing that we are about to place between our-
selves and all who are near and dear, thous-
ands of miles of land and sea. We are
burdened with the ills that may befall
them, ere we meet again, oppressed by the 
dangers that lie thick on every hand.
	The parting words are spoken, the famili-
er forms recede from our lingering gaze, 
and we are rapidly borne away from those
we hold most dear. We now begin to
wonder how we could have made such a 
mistake as to imagine that a trip to Europe
could possibly be a pleasure.
	These feelings are however of but short
duration, as we are lured from the melan-
choly contemplation, by the jollity of our
traveling companions and the ever changing
aspect of the scenes through which we are 
passing. They were all new and strange,
yet, most interesting to me. Yes, even the 
drear and uninhabited plains possessed an 
attraction; for they brought to my mind,
the many weary pilgrimages which have
been taken across their burning sands. I 
thought of the heroic pioneers, the brave
hand cart companions; and the many tedious
ox-team expeditions which had traversed
them.
	Again Fort Laramie, Council Bluffs, the 
Platte and Missouri rivers, the "Father of 
Waters" and the state of Illinois, each in 
its turn, brought to my remembrance,
tragic scenes and memorable incidents in the 
history of my people.
	Just before reaching Chicago, one of our 
passengers, a lady who had occupied the 
opposite seat to me ever since leaving Og-
den, took advantage of the vacant seat by
my side, and excusing herself for address-
ing a stranger, said she had been led by
our conversation, to surmise that we were
Mormons, was I really a Mormon? When 
I answered in the affirmative, she was yet
not wholly convinced, and asked if I really
meant it, of course I told her that I really 
did; when she began to question me in the
following manner. "Do you believe in 
polygamy?  Have all the men in Utah
from six to ten wives? Dare a woman 
there, refuse to marry a man if he wishes 
her to do so? Are all Mormon women 
forced to marry whether they wish to or
not? Are Mormon men good to their 
wives? etc, I spent some little time in ex-
plaining matters to her and in elucidating
the mysterious conditions of society sup-
posed to exist amid the valleys of the
Rockies.
	She expressed herself as being much
pleased and thanking me said she should
henceforth have a very different idea of the
Mormons. Wished to know if the young 
men who had been sitting with me were 
Mormons also, and thought they were very 
jolly, and fine specimens of the race. I
was highly amused and little dreamed of
the many similar amusing incidents I
should experience ere my return.
	Farther on our journey, when flying
through the beautiful woods of the "Em-
pire State," imagination claimed me for her
own; and I saw amid that newly budding 
forest, a youth devoutly kneeling;—pouring
forth his earnest supplications to the God of
heaven;—pleading for light and understand-
ing yea, for wisdom without stint;—which
the "Good Book" promises shall be given, 
to him that asketh, believing he shall re-
ceive. I note the heavens grow brighter at
the boy's continued praying, and two per-
sonages whose glory the noon day sun doth
dim, descend from their bright dwelling,—


stand they now before the pleader; And one
pointing to the other sayeth, "My beloved
Son, hear Him." In the same region my
mind travels far back to the centuries that
are long gone by. And imagination
pictures the vast congregating of two
great armies; numerous descendants of two
brothers;—now gathering their most power-
ful force for the terrible and final conflict,
which subsequently blotted out from this 
land of promise, two great and powerful
nations. I see Moroni, as sole survivor of
his people, standing midst the great and 
appalling desolation of that dreadful battle-
field.
	He contemplates with bleeding heart, the
marvelous disaster; and ponders over the
 causes which have brought it about.
	I see him deposit a treasure; the re-
cords of these Nations in yonder Mount,
the hill "Cumorah;" so that these tribes or
people, who may, in the time to come, in-
habit this land, may learn of the lives of
these aborigines, and take timely warning
from their destruction.
	And now Moroni is no more. He has
gone the way of all flesh. And centuries
dark and drear pass by. But anon, in
yon glorified and immortal messengers
which flies through the midst of heaven,
behold, the prophet of the Ancient
Nephites. He is earthward bound, and 
wends his way towards the depository of
his long concealed legacy- The time has
fully come. The mandate has been issued,
to release it from its hiding place and send
it to the inhabitants of the earth.
	I note with satisfaction that he entrusts
it, with its mission, to the future prospects,
of the appointed youth, who was praying in
the woods.
	But we must now leave this favored lad
with the sacred record, to their eventful
career, for we have been moving rapidly
onward, and soon find ourselves whirled in-
to the busy metropolis of this great Mod-
ern Nation, which is as unconscious and
unmindful of the bleached bones of that 
highly favored, but alas,now extinct nation, 
as is a newly born babe of the sins of the 
world. 
	And now adieu to serious reflections; to
mental meanderings mid the scenes of yore.
The present demands our undivided atten-
tion, and it is soon monopolized by the
sights that are presented to the natural eye.
	New York, with its scores of crowded
streets, its high and imposing buildings,
its elevated railroads and numerous ferry
boats; its suspension bridge and its many 
rivers, its "Statue of Liberty" and its
great ships to say nothing of the ever 
surging flood of industrious humanity,
which without a lull throngs its busy
thoroughfares, all, all afforded interest,
and were a source of wonder to one so
lately released from the rurality of the
Rocky Mountains.
	My traveling companion was an excellent
guide, especially for one who was as much
a stranger in the place, as were the rest of
us; but he always made a bee line for the 
nearest "Cop" of whom he inquired the
way, and then lost no valuable time in 
finding the place. In this manner we were
guided up through Broadway to the base
or beginning of the Brooklyn Bridge. And
after a rather extended pull, we succeeded
in reaching the huge pillar, column, or pile 
which ever it may be called, from which 
the suspension really begins.
[To be continued.]


