A DELIGHTFUL RECEPTION.

	Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie of this City gave
a reception at her residence on West Tem-
ple Oct. 5th in honor of the delegates
to the Ter. W. S. A. convention held in
this city.   *     *     *   Her handsome parlors
were brilliantly lighted, and at 8 p. m. the
guests began to arrive. About fifty ladies
assembled and spent a most delightful even-
ing.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, territorial presi-
dent of the Utah W. S. A., Mrs. Emily S.
Richards, lady president Utah World’s
Fair Commission, Mrs. Electa Bullock,
president Utah County W. S. A., Mrs.
Lucy A. Clark, president Davis County W.
S. A., Miss Celestia Reese, delegate from
Box Elder County W. S. A., Mrs. Hannah
Lapish, president American Fork W. S. A.,
Miss Lizzie Smith, president Kaysville W.
S. A., with many other prominent ladies
interested in woman’s advancement, were
present.
	Delicious refreshments were served to the
guests in the spacious dining hall, the table
being profusely decorated with beautiful
autumn flowers, the suffrage yellow pre-
dominating. Many of the ladies wore their
suffrage badges. Miss Maude May Bab-
cock, teacher of Delsarte and elocution,
favored the company with some choice
selections in her truly artistic, eloquent and
perfectly natural style. The first rendered
was entitled “Woman’s Power,” then
came “Catching the Train’,, humorous, fol-
lowed by the “Negro Mammy Putting
Baby to Sleep." She was heartily applaud-
ed by the appreciative audience. Music
came next, rendered by Hugh Dougall ac-
companied by Mr. Merrill. Altogether the
reception was a perfect success in social en-
joyment and the hostess, Mrs. Beatie as-
sisted by Mrs. Groesbeck, did the honors in
that easy, graceful manner that made all
feel at home with each other.


WOMEN have had equal rights with re-
gard to property from time immemorial
among the Basques, the oldest people in
Europe, whose Country is situated in the
north of Spain along the coast of the Bay
of Biscay.
	THE board of Lady Managers is contem-
plating bringing out for the World's Fair
an encyclopedia of the organizations con-
ducted by women, not only in the United
States, but the world. They are very anx-
ious to secure a full and correct list. Will
the president of every such organization
send to us at once, the name and address of
the organization that she represents? Send
to Helen M. Barker, 409 Rand-McNally
Building, Chicago, Illinois.
	By order of President of the Board of
Lady Managers.
