[Column 2]
Sir Edward and his mother came out and
the boy's happiness was almost shattered,
but his mother besought him not to break
the heart of one so tender and loving as
Anna because of the bitter past, and his
better nature prevailed, and the young man
determined to be true to his manly instincts
and let the past alone.  Lord Walton had
allowed himself to give way to such violent
fits of anger, that like the man he affected
to despise his constitution was likely to
give way, and to prostrate himself or be-
come insane with pride and jealousy.
	Unknown to his wife he had been living
a very fast life and his money had been
drifting away from him rapidly, this preyed
upon his mind too,and he was attacked with
sudden illness which developed brain fever,
and just when the marriage was to have
taken place Lord Walton was lying helpless
and unconscious of his condition.  At times
he talked and raved of the past, and the
physicians in attendance not knowing the
cause of his sickness or that there was any
"method in his madness," wished his wife
to be constantly at his bedside, whereas
she knew through the old faithful nurse
who had been with them from the time of
her marriage, that he was always more
rational when she was absent.
	It was a trying time indeed for Lady
Walton, but she kept up bravely and one
looking on could not have guessed the sor-
row that had entered into her soul.  Some
weeks of watching and nursing and weary
waiting and a slight change for the better
gave them hope of recovery.  The invalid
restored once more to his senses inquired
about the contemplated union and learning
it had been delayed in consequence of his
serious illness, begged them to wait no
longer but let the ceremony be performed,and
as it seemed to be his positively expressed
wish—it was decided that the young people
should be married without further delay.
	As the ceremony was to be performed at
the Castle and all the festivities were to
take place there, it would not interefere
with Lord Walton who was not even able
to drive over in a carriage.  Rob Harrison
came from London to give away the bride,
and the Bishop was to officiate on this
grand occasion assisted by the young rector
who had married the Doctor and Jane Con-
way.  Quite a number of Maitland's rela-
tives were to be present, uncles, aunts and
cousins and most of Sir Edward's relatives,
thought they cared nothing for Anua, yet
the grandeur of the event was sufficient in
itself to bring them hundreds of miles to
witness the marriage and enjoy the cele-
bration and banquet.
	The housekeeper was very consequential
and resented the coming of those people who
had behaved so badly at the time of Sir
Edward's funeral.  She declared she would
not have them in the house, bnt after much
persuasion from both Clair and Lady Anna
she reluctantly consented to hold her peace.
Everything was on the most magnificent
scale for the time and place, and even Lady
Walton's fastidious tastes were gratified,
Mr. Harrison had assisted with both advice
and positive help; had sent from the great
metropolis many things rich and rare, and
such an abundance of choice flowers, that
with those the gardens there afforded, the
whole place was like Eden itself cr  a
fairy land, with bloom and fragrance.
	Anna's French maid and half a dozen
other seamstresses had prepared such a
trousseau, as the country families thereabouts
had never before seen, and there seemed


nothing wanting to make the affair perfect
in every detail except the presence of the
father in law elect. The bride and bride-
groom were to leave the morning after the
wedding for the continent, and on returning
to spend the winter in London. This was
Lady Anna’s idea of happiness, and Uncle
Rob or any one else had not objected, as it
was somehow instrinctively felt, that the
postponement was unpropitious and that it
was not likely to turn out happily in the
end.
	At last the long-looked for day came; it
was in chilly November and the fields were
bare and bleak and a terrific wind the even-
ing previous had shook the rickety old
castle and whistled and shrieked around it,
and the great elm trees creaked and groaned
and one or two not far from the house snap-
ped asunder. Lady Anna would have giv-
en way to dismal forebodings had her Un-
cle Rob not been with her to cheer her de-
presed spirits. Clair who was usually light-
hearted could scarcely be pacified and after
his sister had retired for the night, sat long
with Mr. Harrison telling him of the pre-
monitions he felt, and of what the servants
had been talking of ever since the postpone-
ment of the marriage.
	When he ventured to express to Mr. H.
his impression that some great event either
good or bad was about to transpire which
concerned the house and the family, then
Mr. H. replied in confidence, “probably we
are all going to leave England, at least I am
sure that I shall before very long, and you
would perhaps like to accompany me to the
far East, as it will be very dull here and
the estate can easily be let to some compe-
tent person: the lodge keeper who has been
so long in your father’s employ will look
after your interests, and you ought to see a
little of the world and know more of men
and business, now’s your time, before mar-
riage.”
	Clair was over-joyed though he would
have preferred his own dear native land to
the far East, yet he was too undemonstra-
tive even to make such a suggestion and re-
plied, to “Uncle Rob,” as he too sometimes
called him,that as soon as the fuss and flurry
of his sister’s wedding was over he would
put everything in proper shape with the
help of his lawyers and join him at his
lodgings in London.
	It was just what Rob Harrison liked
though it had not been premeditated, and
he felt too that it would be quite beneficial
to the young Baronet. It was near morn-
ing ere the two retired and the night was
dark and fierce gusts of wind were sweep-
ing over the country. No one slept much
in that old place for it seemed more than
ever forlorn, though the house was filled
with guests, who had been arriving for the
last two or three days.
	At the first grey streaks of dawn Lady
Anna rose and called her maid, feeling she
must speak to some one, and of all her rela-
tives there was not a single person among
them to whom she could speak of the things
that lay near her heart.
	“And so I am to leave my old home to-
day never to return as its mistress, Marie?”
	“And aren’t you glad my Lady that you
are going to get a fine handsome man, rich
and stylish, who adores you with all his
soul, surely that ought to satisfy any young
lady.”
	“You do not understand me girl, no one
ever does, not even my cousin Mrs. Bland,
though she knows me best of all the world,
but I have feelings I cannot explain,doubts
