THE OCTOBER CONFERENCE.

	THE General Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church which commenced in the large Taber-
nacle in this City Oct. 6, and closed Sunday
afternoon Oct. 9, was certainly one of the most
interesting and instructive Conferences that has
ever been held. The spirit of the teaching and
the manifest power that rested upon the several
speakers, was felt and appreciated by the congre-
gation of Latter day Saints in a manner apparent
to all who were present, and there will doubtless
be an awakening to the sacredness and duties of
the obligations resting upon this people, that will
extend through all the Stakes of Zion. That this
is the most interesting time in the history of the
Church must be the impression of all those who
are watching the signs of the times, when the
greatest events are about to transpire that have
been predicted  by ancient and modern prophets
and Apostles.
	Here at the centre Stake of Zion the most
magnificant sacred edifice that has been reared
for many centuries to the name of the Lord is
nearing its completion, and it would seem only in
keeping with the fact that it is about to be dedi-
cated that those professing to believe in all the
doctrines, principles and ordinances pertaining
to this holy place, should be prepared for so
solemn and momentous an occasion. The people
have had line upon line and precept upon pre-
cept concerning these things, and yet many have
been careless and indifferent to the warning voice
and have preferred to use the means for their own
aggrandizement over which they are only
stewards, instead of the building of Temples or
the spread of truth for the salvation of the world.
Such sermons as were preached at this late Con-
ference are calculated to arouse those who are
desirous of assisting in this great and grand work
and who through other influences have in the
past been negligent or forgetful of the great re-
sponsibility attached to those who have taken
upon themselves the name of Latter-day Saint.
	Many grand and inspiring themes were treated
upon which must be uplifting in their tendency to
those who are faithful and true, and who have
spent their lives and their means in advancing
the cause of righteousness upon the earth. The
meek and humble ones whom our Heavenly
Father delights to own and bless, these were fed
with the bread of life, and for all there was a word
in due season that will not fail to sink deep into
the heart of every attentive listener.


