[column 2]
furnish desirable homes for hundreds of per-
sons wishing to become permanently settled;
we drove on five miles to Bishop Terry's
ranch where we were welcomed by Sister
M. A. Terry.
	The 17th we traveled thirty-five miles to
Panacca in Lincoln Co., Nevada, the
Bishop was absent from home but we were
made welcome by Sister Lee, within her
beautiful home.
	At 10 a. m. of the 18th, we met with the
children,Sister Melissa Lee, who has been a 
faithful worker was compelled through sick-
ness and a press of othea duties, to resign 
her position as President of the Primary
Association of this place, and Mrs. Mary
Wrench was chosen President with Melissa
Lee and Christy Turnbow, Counselors;
here as all the settlements can boast were 
a fine lot of healthy children.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Society
which is presided over by Mrs. Elizabeth
Wadsworth; the spirit of the Lord was en-
joyed by the people and all felt to rejoice in
the great Latter-day work.
	On the 19th we commenced our return
journey remaining the first night with 
Sister Terry on their ranch; on the 20th,
we continued our journey to Brother James
Holt's, located about three miles below
Hamblin, in the Meadow, Canyon, there
are but few people here, but as they were 
being visited by relatives from a distance
we decided to hold meeting with them;
which we did and all rejoiced at the oppor-
tunity that had been afforded them; when 
they bade adieu with a pressing invitation
to us to come again.
	We dined at Brother Camfields, at
the Meadows, in the absence of Sister Cam-
field we were kindly entertained by her
daughter Clara; in the afternoon at 2 p. m.
we had an interesting meeting at Pinto with 
the Primary Association; in the evening
we drove to Grass Valley where I had the
privilege of spending the night with my 
sister, Leonora C. Gardner; the 21st being
Sunday we met with the Sunday School;
the exercises rendered reflect great credit
on all concerned.  At 2 p. m. we had a
meeting with the Primary Association a 
good spirit was enjoyed.
	We found a people in this peaceful little 
valley, who are fully awake to the necessity
of educating their children, and they move
into larger settlements in the winter where
the children can attend school.
	In the summer they have a teacher and 
conduct a private school, having built a
nice school house where they are taught
music as well as other branches of educa-
tion, in all of which they show great pro-
ficiency. In the evening we drove to Pine
Valley and remained over night reaching
home on the 22nd, this ended a trip that re-
quired two hundred and fifty miles of travel
over a road that is anything but a pleasure
but is necessary in order to visit the settle-
ments named, which constitute a part of
this Stake,this country is sterile but the in-
dustry of the Saints have made it desirable.
We trust we have done some good in en-
couraging the Saints in their duties.  I
never saw a better spirit than was manifest
among them at the present time, they
watch the signs of the times and are satis-
fied with their observations.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel.
