IN RURAL ENGLAND.

				XXV.
	The preparations for the wedding of
Lady Anna Hilliard were very different
and much more elaborate than those of her
cousin's marriage had been,on a far grander
scale and indeed every detail connected
therewith seemed of so much consequence
that it was not only a nine days wonder
but all the people round about including
the servants as well as the masters and
mistresses scarcely talked of anything else.
All the old stories of the feud between Sir.
Edward and Lord Walton were reiterated
and amply enlarged upon and the love affair
in which Lady Walton had figured con-
spicuously was not left out of any conver-
sation upon the subject, and the young heir
Clairville Hilliard was served up with his
gipsy mother, and all the slanderous reports
that had been circulated at that period con-
cerning the doings at the Castle-
	Happily for Lady Anna these reports did
not reach her, she was so far removed from
the gossip of these newsmongers but Mrs.
Bland was not so fortunate and she became
quite weary of the repetition of these idle
tales and of disputing many of the slanders
that were brought to her in confidence by
meddlers and people who really wanted
"only to know the truth," according to
their own statement.  Mrs.  Bland knew
however that these gossipers were only
coming for more news to retail, but she
generally gave them a plain lesson upon
matters and sent them away with the im-
pression that, "it was none of their affair."
	Mrs. Bland's influence even in this res-
pect was salutary, and things quieted
down considerably,though Lord Walton did
not escape a quarrel or two with his friends,
(such they called themselves) about young
Walton's anticipated union with the daugh-
ter of Sir Edward who had made himself so
obnoxious in the vicinity, notwithstanding
"his title and possesions and his handsome
daughter," as they sneeringly alluded to
the marriage.
	Each time Lord Walton met with sneers
and ridicule he vented his spleen at home
and his wife and son both grew very tired
of his perpetual interference.  Sometimes
he was actually brutal and once or twice
struck his son, who threatened in turn to
be revenged upon the men who had enraged
his father if he could only ascertain who
they were.  Lady Walton though suffering,
keenly through it all, wore a smiling face
and sought to conciliate her husband by all
the means in her power.  Finally he declar-
ed on one occasion that he could not and
would not remain in England and suffer
such indignities, he would go over to the
continent, until the marriage ceremony was
over and the gossip had died out.  Lady
Walton did not remonstrate, for she felt
what a relief it would be to them all; he
was so annoyed at her seeming indifference
that he swore she should not be so much
her own mistress, he would stay at home
now, and spoil their pleasure; in fact the
man was to all appearances jealous of the
affection of his wife for her own son,
ridiculous as it may appear.  Things grew
worse daily between them, he could not
endure the sight of either of the Hilliards
and at last forbade their presence at the
Hall.
	Maitland was furious and all the efforts
of his mother were unavailing to quiet him;
in the quarrel between father and son the
whole story of the engagement between

