DEATH AT THE WHITE HOUSE.
---
	Mrs. Caroline Scott Harrison, wife of the
Chief Executive of the nation, President
Benjamin Harrison, died at the White
House in Washington, D. C., on Tuesday
morning Oct. 25, 1892, at 1:40, of con-
sumption from which she had been suffer-
ing for some considerable time though little
was known of the disease that threatened
her life until a few months since.  Strong
hopes were entertained of her recovery un-
til a short time ago, and recently the Presi-
dent has absented himself from all public
places and remained constantly by her bed-
side.  The family are grief-stricken at the
great loss they have sustained in her de-
mise.
	There were present at the moments of
her departure, President Harrison, Mr. and
Mrs. Mc'Kee, Mr. and Mrs. Russell Harri-
son, Lieut. and Mrs. Parker, Mrs. Dimmick 
and Mrs. Newcomer,all the family except the
three grand children.
	Mrs. Harrison was so tenderly beloved
that the parting must have been inexpress-
ibly touching.
	Ever since Mrs. Harrison's entrance at
the White House, she has given an air of
the most graceful superiority to all its ar-
rangements and entertainments; socially
she is said to have been very charming and
in her homelife intensely gentle and moth-
erly.
	Mrs. Harrison was born in Oxford, Ohio,
and was the daughter of Dr. John Wither-
spoon Scott and Mary Scott.
	Mr. and Mrs. Harrison fell in love with
each other while the young lady was at
school.  Mrs. Harrison was elected the 
First President General of the organization
known as the Daughters of the Revolution,
in 1890, and was re-elected in 1892. It 
seems almost remarkable that through so
many terms of the office of President, Mrs.
Harrison is the second mistress of the White
House, who has died at the Presidential
mansion.  Her demise will cast a shadow
over that beautiful and charming place for 
a time at least, and the rejoicings at the
coming election will scarce be the same
after such a sad occurence, as the death of
one so near the heart of the nation.


