[Column 2]
and perplexities, I dare say they were born
with me, I recollect my old nurse Raynor
used to say, I had too much sentiment, and
it cropped out at the wrong time: this cer-
tainly is an inopportune time to be moody—
let us get every thing ready; nine o’clock
comes soon these dark mornings, my cousin
who is an early riser will be coming over
here and she shall not find me sad or droop-
ing on my wedding day.”
	Marie thus addressed began to get out the
finery—the beautiful morning gown was
donned in haste and the maid rang for Lady
Anna’s tea to be brought up stairs, for she
had declared to the housekeeper she would
not breakfast with all those people whom
she had so seldom seen, if they were the
nearest relatives. So Clair was left to keep
them in countenance and maintain the dig-
nity of the establishment, with the ever
helpful Uncle Rob, while Anna sipped her
tea, and dallied with her toast and muffins
scarcely swallowing a mouthful.
	As the great clock of the Castle struck
eight Mrs. Bland was ushered in and in-
formed her cousin that Maitland with his
retinue had arrived, and with the air of one
who brings good news, she added, “I have
heard it is always a good omen when the
bridegroom comes early.” Just these few
words raised Anna’s spirits and she began
to talk cheerfully almost gaily, as the maid
displayed her finery one piece after another;
the veil was the most delicate lace, the gift
of Uncle Rob, and the dress was the most
exquisite India Silk profusely trimmed with
Venetian lace and pearls. Her luxuriant
golden hair was loosely knotted with pearls
and crowned her like an aureole. Never
was a bride more fittingly arrayed and as
her cousin gazed upon her beautiful face
and kissed her again and again before they
left her boudoir she could not forbear say-
ing, “Was ever a bride so charming?”
And under her breath she said, “and neither
father or mother to bid her God speed or
bestow a blessing.” Anna caught the
meaning and for a moment both shed tears
of loneliness though not of repining, and
then the cheery manly voice of Uncle Rob
called to them to come down; in the great
oak drawing room Doctor Bland and Clair,
Burke and Hemenway,the Bishop and Rec-
tor were waiting, the other guests were in
the ante-rooms and waited the summons,
Maitland and his mother joined Lady Anna
her cousin and Uncle Rob in the library,
where the formal greetings were given and
received, and then Anna leaning upon
Uncle Rob’s arm and almost fainting with
extreme nervousness stepped forward into
the grand archway (that had been purposely
arranged, and beautifully wreathed with the
fairest flowers) where waited young Wal-
ton his heart beating high with a conscious
pride of the fulfillment of his fondest hopes.
Whispers of approval ran through the as-
sembled company and soon the words were
pronounced that made Lady Anna Hilliard
and Maitland Walton husband and wife.


