		THE REMAINS OF THE POET INTERRED.
	"With all honors which the church could be-
stow, in the presence of many eminent men of
letters, statesmen and nobles, the remains of
Tennyson were interred in the Poet's corner at
Westminster Abbey Oct. 12. The Jerusalem
corner contained a mass of rare floral offerings,
including a laurel wreath from the Queen.
	The remains were laid beside those of Brown-
ing.
	The Queen also sent a metallic wreath of laurel
appropriately inscribed . The procession formed
at noon in the Jerusalem chamber; the coffin was
borne on the shoulders of stalwart men. Among
the pall-bearers were Henry White, U. S. lega-
tion secretary, and Lord Salisbury. The mourn-
ers followed the coffin; then the household
servants, representatives of the Queen, and other
royal persons.
	On reaching the chancel, the coffin was set
down at the foot of the altar, and Canon Duck-
worth opened with the service for the dead;
then the choir chanted the 10th psalm. After the
lesson for the day was read, the choir sang
Tennyson's last poem "Silent Voices." The
body was then borne to the Poet's Corner, and,
after further services, was committed to the
grave beside Browning. Benediction was pro-
nounced by the Archbishop of Canterbury."
	Alfred Tennyson was born in the year 1810, at
Somerby, Lincolnshire. The family was a large
one, he being the third. At a very early age he
manifested a talent for writing verse, and pub-
lished in 1827 a volume entitled "Poems of Two
Brothers" the joint production of himself and his
brother Charles. He completed his studies at
Trinity College, Cambridge, and two years after
the poet published "Timbuctoo" for this he re-
ceived the Chancellor's medal. In 1842 the poet
sent forth to the world two Volumes that gave
him the honor of the laurel-crowned songster of
the British realm. Tennyson has really been for
many years the special favorite of many of the
people of both continents.
	At another time we shall be glad to publish
more concerning the poet laureate whom we
ardently admired and whose peotry has touched 
the heart of the writer as much or more than any
other, especially "In Memoriam."


