[Column 1]
﻿women. Take well balanced men or women and
they will never slop over and what is so of an in-
dividual is so of a community, and in order to be
well balanced we must cultivate, wherever we
are deficient.
	During the time women voted in Utah, he
never saw any disorderly conduct at the polls,
that of itself is worth thinking of.  The ballot is a
right that all should demand.  It is a right not a
privilege.  When women have this right it will
tend to purge the ballot of its wicked and corrupt
ways.  Believed among the first things granted
would be the right of Suffrage to women. Strike 
out the word "Male" the same as the word
"White" in 1862.  My vote is my property and I
believe in voting as I please and to the best of my
knowledge.  Educate yourselves that you may
know independently of what your husband or 
brother does or says?  not only yourselves but 
your family.  If only one can be educated let it
be the daughters, and they will in turn educate
their families.  Believed in taking an interest in
the World's Fair, also in Dress Reform.  Woman
should not get overturned, but educate in all
things necessary for filling both places, and she
should have a right to control her property and
also her person, that men will have to educate
themselves as well as women on different points.
Trusting all would be interested in this, as a jus
cause.
	Mrs. Kimball was under the impression, if
Bishop Booth would speak it would inspire her
to speak, that this right of Suffrage was going to
be felt more and more in the world.  By and by,
women, through their tact, will do something
but they must be more liberal.  As a class wo-
men are so penurious, that they will give nothing
to help the cause, men will give willingly to help
theirs.  Was pleased with the Association in 
Springville and was pleased to be present, and
each individual could help to make it what it
should be, also said marriage, too often ended
woman's life and education.
	W. H. Kelsey said, this is a great and grand
work, started to ameliorate the sufferings of
humanity, said the first hospital was reared under
the direction and presence of Isabella the
Spanish Queen, spoke of the great good women
had done, and they do not receive one tenth part
the credit that is due them.  Garabaldi's wife
followed him through all the changing scenes
that that remarkable man went through, and in
their days of adversity she used her red skirt and
her white bed spread or counter-pane, and made
a flag which Garabaldi used on his victorious
marches resulting in the Emancipation of the
fair land Italy.  While great honor is due him
surely some credit is due his wife. So far as the
Suffrage is concerned with the stroke of the pen
of Abraham Lincoln, eight millions of the colored
race received their emancipation. The male
portion of which had, over 21 years of age, the
full privilege of political suffrage, no difference if
they can neither read nor write, while double the
number of the Anglo-Saxon race, forming a great
part of this nation, were denied the ballot be-
cause of being females. Speaking of women the
speaker stated, the Almighty in placing us upon 
this earth designed us to be equal, not in the
ascendency, but equal, nothing more.  Women
have brought about many reforms but have re-
ceived little credit for it. Spoke of John
Bunyon's "Pilgrims Progress" a work nearly as
extensively read as the Bible, and that to a great
extent was produced through the sacrifice and
industry of his wife that lived during his impri-
sonment of twelve years.  He also mentioned the
services of Florence Nightingale during the
Crimean war, and also the mother of Napoleon,
how she followed her husband on the battle field
against the French forces, but a short time before
the birth of that great General Napoleon.
	Regreted that all our ladies did not emulate

