[Column 2]
either the committee or the tabooed women.
I tremblingly stammer my fears: "Who 
shall attend to them? Surely not I." The 
potentates nodded their official heads, and
you beheld me, with my sleeves rolled up
metaphorically, for the fray. But no; the
metaphor is ill-chosen. These are women,
their mode of warfare otherwise. 
	It is true that there are women who do 
not care to vote, just as there are now and 
then anomalous cases who do not even 
wish to be married, much less seek oppor-
tunity. I once knew a woman who thor-
oughly believed in St. Paul's injunction to 
keep silence, and to be duly submissive—
just one. She has been translated. 
	I confess to you that I have but little
patience, with the woman who in this age of
her sex's evolution refuses to evolve. But-
terflies—those lower in the scale of being, 
I mean—do better. From caterpillar to 
chrysalis, they at least passively let nature
do her work, winning each to itself and its
destiny. But some women,like many men, 
how loudly do I confess it, most stubbornly 
resist the influence of this Hugoan age.
	My impatience may arise in part from the
recollection of my mother, whose life went
out from before me ere I could appreciate
her struggle. Twenty-five years ago, in a 
community exceedingly modest so far as 
education was concerned, she both taught
and spoke publicly and in church, where
beetle-browed elders sat in the owl-like
sternness and stupidity of knitted face and 
ill concealed righteous indignation. Gentle
as the "good night" of a baby's tender
mother, womanly in every sense of the 
word, with constancy of affection, that real
nobility of a woman, her endowment for
joint rulership in the affairs of both child-
ren and men; but with it all, a broader
range of learning, self-gotten, than was
possessed by any save one in the entire
community, uplifted on the levels of a 
rational faith—if I were to think anything
less than woman's equality with man in 
every high sense, it would be to give the
lie to every law of heredity and environ-
ment. You are not surprised now at my 
impatience.
	Yet one must always turn philosophical 
when he becomes a student of conditions.
	The abjectest wretchedness of slavery is
its contentment. The most irresistible and
 at the same time the most hurtful slavery is
the sort which comes by caresses rather than 
by blows. A mother could do no crueller
thing than to keep her babe in her arms, or
sustain it at her breast, through four or five
years—could she live so long. Cruel to 
herself as well the child. Her love might
be the motive. But love which kills not 
both lover and beloved has in it always
some reason, some calculation upon the
future, and some equality of companion-
ship.
	Gardens are valuable for nosegays, but
one likes bread oftenest. To make others
kneel is sometimes worthy, but to make 
men rise up and walk beside you, is better.
Stooping to conquer is poor business for an 
American women of any noble sort.
	To enter into a single corner of a man's
great four-square life will not content any
great woman's soul. The woman who can-
not stand at the horizon-centre and see with 
her husband the same distant contour of
possibilities, is no helpmeet in the better
meaning. To make indifferent American 
women feel these truths is the first attention
to be paid them. The indirect method is
the better. Let the women at this board
[Column 3]
to-night be such, in every way of culture
and heart power, as shall first commend and
then win the conviction that the emanci-
pated woman is cleaner, happier, more use-
ful, and far more respected by men and wo-
men alike, than the enslaved, and the surest
part of your work is done. 
	 I have been exceedingly gratified with 
the quality of womanhood in this move-
ment. It gives me the largest hope for its
ultimate success. I have found a grace 
which has a quality not of the drawing-
room alone, as realists say, it has a "tang" 
about it. If you can imagine music with-
out timbre, you will get my idea of the 
forms of polite society into which the life of
sex equality has not yet come. I have
found also a sprightliness of conversation
not born of blushing acknowledgement of
half sincere, and sometimes suggestive, 
flattery, but of much thought and reading.
Moreover, and above all, a moral rigidness
in discerning ethical standards, which 
means a vast deal in this loose age—an ex-
alted concept of righteousness and interde-
pendence.
	All this betokens a listening ear to the 
wailing of the unfortunate, a critical mind
for granting justice in an age which at last
begins to suspect that full justice has not
yet been done those most needing it.
	The direct method, largely temporary, is
to gain, by literature and public and politi-
cal address, the thought of the thoughtless.
Just now no field is more productive than 
good fiction. Turn some of your facile
pens to the novel. Give us more women in 
character whose lives are above petty things
and scornful of hysterical affection, not un-
natural women, but a wholesome realism
to be fonnd already in thousands of homes.
	I sat on a rock beside a mountain brook
this summer, for an hour, watching two
birdlings just fallen from the nest. One
soon developed his jerky little hop into a 
flutter, and then into an awkward short 
flight, in a dizzy circle, back again to his
panting sister tinier than her who merely 
squeaked little half pitiful tones, as in a 
kind of agony she stuggled to do what
the other had so soon learned. I was per-
plexed over her seeming stupidity. The 
braver fledgling, approaching cautiously,
seemed to make a discovery, and with bad-
ly directed little peckings sought to undo
the evil. In the mother-nest, a cord, pro-
bably a very important part of the nest,
had been wound about the helpless bird,
and entangled in its untrained wings.
	I immediately released it from its home
nest meshes, and soon it had out-flown its 
companion.
	I believe in God the Father; in Christ the
ideal man, and the divine educator of men
toward the levels of his own personality; I 
believe in the futnre of the race as the
bright consummation of the Eternal Plan;
therefore, I must and do believe in the 
equality of sex in every vital relation of 
the race. In birth; in life—its woe, and
its happiness; in death, and in the Here-
after.—The Woman's Journal.


We wish to call the attention of our read-
ers and the public at large to the advertis-
ment of Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon, who
has reopened her office in this city and is
prepared to attend to calls in her profession.
We take pleasure in making this announce-
ment, as we always do for young women of
our own community who have had energy
and perseverence to make their own way in
this laudable profession.


