[column 2]
ing poem set to such thrilling music as the
world has seldom if ever seen.
	The description of the dresses worn by
the ladies is something appaling, and we
therefore leave such matters to society
writers, and content ourselves with men-
tioning only the two national lady commis-
sioners from Utah; Mrs. Margaret Blaine
Salisbury wore a dress of white faille
Francaise embroidered in silver with orna-
ments of diamonds and pearls, Mrs.
Whalen's gown was a canary colored crepe
trimmed in brocade orange ribbons with or-
naments of diamonds.
	Dispatches of the 20th, October say,
"Last night society set the glittering seal of
her approval upon the World's Fair."  The
ceremonies have been as successful and even
more so than had been anticipated since the
first notice of the outbreak of cholera
abroad.  The feasting and dancing and
such like festivities as also the toasting and
speech-making have all been of the highest
order possible.  The one great drawback to
the enjoyment of the occasion has been the
absence of the Chief Executive of the nation
and the lamentable cause, viz. the serious
illness of his wife, by whose bedside he is
tenderly watching, while these great events
in which both were expected to take the
most prominent part are being celebrated.
	Ex-President Cleveland out of courtesy
and respect and with a laudable appreacia-
tion of the position of President Harrison
voluntarily absents himself from the scenes
of attraction in which he also was expected
to play an active part.
	The dedicatory oration by Hon. Henry
Watterson was an eloquent effort though
hastily prepared, we quote one of the open-
ing paragraphs.
	"We are met this day to honor the mem-
ory of Christopher Columbus, to celebrate
the four hundreth annual return of the year
of his transcendant achievement and with
fitting riches to dedicate to America and the
universe  the concrete exposition of the
world's progress between 1492 and 1892."
	In his closing remarks he alluded to the
display made by the children of the schools
all over the land in these beautiful words:
	"These, indeed, are our crown jewels, 
the truest though inevitable offspring of our
civilization and development; representa-
tives of a manhood vitalized and invigorated
by toil and care; of womanhood elevated
and inspired by liberty and education.  God
bless the children and their mothers.  God
bless our contry's flag, and God be with
us now and ever.  God in our roof-trees
shaded and God on the highway; God in
the winds and waves and God in all our
hearts."
	Mrs. Potter Palmer delivered an address
on the "Work of the Board of Lady
Managers," and made a grand showing and
also offered congratulations and greetings to
the women of all lands.
	Mrs. Henroitin gave a salutation in honor
of Queen Isabella which was highly ap-
plauded.
	There were several speeches by dis-
tinguished, well-known orators and choruses
and anthems and orations, and the cere-
monies closed with a most brilliant and
wonderful display of fireworks, represent-
ing the greatest events and also places etc.
In the evening the Auditorium was the
scene of a Columbian Congress, purely in-
tellectual in which women participated.


George Wm. Curtis by his will left all
his property absolutely to his wife.


