[Vol7 | October 1920 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Household Hints Jeanette A. Hyde]

EMPEY ___--_- Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. JuUa P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crimson Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Rebecca Njebaur Nibley Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Eklward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor _------__ SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager ------- JANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager --_____ AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VII October, 1920 No. 10 The Deadly Foes of the Night We women who slip past the middle-age period of fifty, on to sixty, racing past to seventy, then linger along beyond seventy, eighty and even up to ninety, as a very few of us do, we women face and nightly vanquish many foes. We do not say much about it, for we are not loquacious about our fears as men are — but we do have a good many pitched battles with our mental foes. We are quite willing, as a rule, to discuss our bodily aches and pains, from toothache to cancer;  but when it comes to disclosing our horrid, silly, unnecessary, but excruciating fears — we just can't do it. If men suffered half the tormenting dreads and mental alarms that obsess our nights and that intrude occasionally upon our waking, busy hours, everybody in the family, down to the last grandchild, would know all about it and be on the watch for every symptom;  moreover, we would, in such a case, have our husbands as dry nurses, be sent off on restful trips to California, and people generally would be watching more or less eagerly and interestedly for the next development. But we women — well, you know how it is yourself. There are the shooting pains of rheumatism which bring dire forebodings of heart trouble;  there is the old heart itself which wakes us up in a perfect panic of fright with its wobbling and trembling about nothing in particular, that you can recall, only that your heart is "acting up again; " there