Dedication of the Temple at Bern, Switzerland Sunday, September 11, 1955 In the beautiful country of Switzerland, "girt round with rugged mountains," the ninth temple in use today of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was dedicated by President David O. McKay, on Sunday, September 11, 1955. 'The sacred edifice lifts its white spire heavenward as a symbol of eternal truth and the glad tidings of the restored gospel. The site is the village of Zollikofen, some seven miles north of Bern, Switzerland, with the long ranges of the Jura Mountains rising westward and the high turrets of the Alps to the east and south. On the day of the dedication, bright sunshine broke through the clouds, and the white stone walls of the temple glowed against the dark green mountains. Visitors thronged the grounds, and more than twelve hundred people, including the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir, attended the services. Four members of the Council of the Twelve were present: Elders Spencer W. Kimball, Ezra Taft Benson, Henry D. Moyle, and Richard L. Evans. The Choir sang two great hymns: "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy" and "Holiness Becometh the House of the Lord," as well as the majestic "Hosannah Anthem." Ewan Harbrecht, soloist with the Choir, sang, with much emotion and great purity of tone, the song long endeared to Latter-day Saints, "Bless This House." Elder Benson, representing the Council of the Twelve, spoke of the temple dedication as the culmination of the hopes of thousands who had prayed for a temple in Europe, referring to its completion as "probably the greatest event that has occurred in Europe since the gospel was brought here 118 years ago." President McKay, in his dedicatory prayer, asked the blessings of the Lord upon the saints, "as one in singleness of purpose, in love of Thee, of one another, and of all sincere people in the world." Thus, the words of the prayer were not for the European saints alone, but for the believers all over the world: "Now, O God, our Heavenly Eternal Father, the faithful membership of thy Church, through love for Thee and thy children, have erected to thee by tithes and offerings this Holy House in which shall be performed ordinances and ceremonies pertaining to the happiness and salvation of thy children living in mortality and in the Spirit World." The women of Relief Society, in all the stakes and missions of the Church, join with their European sisters in this time of rejoicing, and pray that all of us may be blessed with the spiritual richness which our spired temples and the eternal gospel bring to us forever. Page 717