Meet the Bride Helen S. Williams quelle is something extra special about an invitation to meet a new "Bride-to-Be," and something extra special, too, about planning, decorating, and preparing for a bride's party. To decide on a novel idea that pertains to the bride or groom — something that has to do with their work, their new home, their schooling, future, or their particular romance, is the first step in the preparation of a party that will be distinctively their own. 'To carry this idea into beautiful table decor takes ingenuity, artistry, and work — much work. When the result is as lovely and as original as the table pictured across, and when the bidden guests and the sweet young bride exclaim sincerely and enthusiastically over the beauty and originality of the table, then the hostess, justifiably, can feel pleased and rewarded for all her efforts of time, work, and expense. The pictured table was used at an afternoon reception honoring a young bride who was to wed a naval officer attached to a carrier. The centerpiece for the exquisite table was a carrier ship with golden planes aboard. What a beautiful ship! It was made of white daisies, and was exact in every detail of shape and size and made in perfect proportion to the large table on which it was placed. The ship was made of plasta-foam, that comparatively new material that can be cut and built in all sorts of shapes and sizes. This foam can be purchased at most floral, lumber or novelty shops, and comes in either sheets or blocks. 'The carrier was made in three layers of the sheet foam. The top deck, or landing area, was about an inch thick and the other layers making the hull of the boat were all held together with strong wire. Thus the deck and hull which appear in the picture to be one solid piece were actually three sheets. It was all cut and fastened together in perfect proportion to create a replica of a naval carrier. The superstructure was cut from a separate piece and fastened to the deck. It took about four hundred large Esther Reed daisies to cover the carrier. 'The daisies were held in place with tooth picks which had been broken in two. The sharp end was stuck into the daisy and the broken end thrust into the foam. The daisies were artistically staggered to give an over-all lacy, yet realistic appearance. A more beautiful carrier never sailed the high seas than did this one made of daisies, with its five gilded planes which seemed to have just landed on the beflowered deck of daisies. The figurines of the bride and groom standing on the bow gave the feeling of romance and love. They were a delightful symbol of the lovely young couple who were being honored and who were about to embark upon the sea of matrimony— a young couple beginning the most important journey of life with hopeful anticipation that their voyage would be perfect. The carrier seemed to be plowing its way through the sea with the spray of waves splashing against its sides. The clever hostess had placed the ship in a mass of daisies and white baby's breath (Gypsophila). 'The daisies had been dyed with floral dye an ocean blue color. The blue daisies and the foamy, airy Gypsophila truly gave an illusion of waves breaking against the ship. It was a beautifully worked out umique centerpiece and so appropriate for the honored guests. A centerpiece must have a perfect setting if it is to be artistic and beautiful. 'This one centered a very large table which was covered with an exquisite point-de-Venice lace cloth over pink satin. The table was wide and long and the ship was in excellent proportion to the dimensions of the table. At each commer a large anchor was fastened to the cloth. The same plasta-foam covered with the white daisies made the anchors. They gave unity and a feeling of Page 746 TO MEET THE BRIDE 747 harmony and completeness to the entire picturesque table. These anchors had been drawn to pattern and carved out with a small saw. They were completely covered with the daisies, as was the ship. A large graceful bow of pink satin ribbon and airy maline was placed at the top of each anchor on the table top. These bows matched exactly the satin which was used under the cloth and added femininity and softness to the picture. The table, with its beautiful cloth over pink satin, the white anchors and pink ribbon bows at the corners of the spacious table, made a perfect setting for the ocean blue and the large white centerpiece which was the focal point of the decoration. The effect as guests entered the dining room was one of beauty and romance, in excellent good taste, and the entire idea was specifically in honor of the young bride. The "Bride-to-Be" and all who had been invited to meet her felt that the afternoon and the reception had been truly an extra special occasion, one to be long remembered, enjoyed, and appreciated. A.. Boece 2S x Gey. En gee Eg EY PX A Hal Rumel A CARRIER SHIP OF FLOWERS FOR A TABLE DECORATION