The one burning issue before the American people today, as well as before all the allied peoples, is the League of Nations, which has been knit up with the Peace Pact. Many think them one and the same thing; but that is erroneous. However, President Wilson thus holds them together, and so do the other signatory powers.

The League of Nations may be all that its supporters claim that it is; it may be all that its opponents assert that it isn't. This is a matter of individual opinion. There are prominent and beloved leaders amongst this people who differ vitally on this question; as do the people; but let the women of this Church act and think and talk as Latter-day Saints should, and not demean themselves nor give way to foolish and even wicked feelings and words.

Consider two vital points connected with this matter! First, then: Politics are merely men's opinions as to how the government of a city, state or nation shall be shaped or conducted. One man thinks a high tariff is good policy, and his neighbor is sure that a low tariff, or none at all, is the best policy for the nation. One man thinks that Democratic policies are best, another feels that the Republican plans are safest. These are merely men's opinions.

Sometimes, however, questions of policy have sterner values than mere tariff or coinage questions; as, for instance, the question of State's Rights, which led to the Civil War. Yet, even in that we must give our Southern Democrats the credit of being honest and sincere in their opinions.

Whatever opinions you and I may hold on this League of Nations, or upon the different political party questions, let us assume and maintain one fixed standard of conduct; namely, willingness to concede to all men and women the liberty we ourselves enjoy—that of free agency, to act and think for ourselves. Moreover, let us do this generously, and in a kindly spirit.

Let your sense of humor come to the rescue. We are told women have little of this saving quality. Then let us cultivate it. Don't get angry because some one differs with you in your opinion regarding the League of Nations or any other question. Keep cool, keep sane, keep poised.

Second: There is a more vital issue at stake, and that is, criticism of our honored and revered leaders. Remember, dear sisters, you and I know as we know that we live, that President Heber J. Grant's words of counsel, and his appeals to this people, are dictated by the spirit of truth, the Spirit of God. He will not lead this people astray. He is under divine guidance, and our prayers go up night and morning in his behalf.

Likewise are his Counselors and the Council of the Twelve, men of God, men of prophecy and of revelation. If your friend wishes to show his reasons for his opinion, listen quietly and courteously. Show forth your own reasons with justice and sobriety. But don't argue, and don't impute wrong motives and evil intents to those who differ with you. Argument leads to evil. Avoid it.

We must have and use our agency. But in the exercise of that agency let us be meek, gentle, reasonable, and generous-minded. Of such is the Relief Society.