Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1900 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NatTIons"' THE NEW CENTURY: Whatever may be the fate of the world a century later one cannot help feeling and realizing that the United States, the Republic of America is marching onward to a high destiny,... Development goes forward and ideas accumulate as the world grows older, and men "and women who seriously contemplate life and action... Enter upon the century heart and soul and seem to be lifted by a sort of mental and spiritual enthusiasm into higher ranges of sublimity than were known a hundred years ago. —Editorial CENTURY'S GREETING TO AID RED CROSS: The parting of the centuries on the night of the 31st of the coming December will have a celebration of world-wide import and interest in the unique watch meetings to be held in this country under the auspices of the American National Red Cross. The specially organized Twentieth Century Department of the Red Cross is now preparing to hold watch meetings, as far as practicable, in every city, town and village in the United States. Mammoth meetings are already arranged for in New York and other leading cities, in Madison Square Gardens and other great auditoriums, to see the old century out and the new century in. Probably no sign or figure in the secular world is sacred to so many eyes as the Red Cross of Geneva. It is the insignia of a humanity that knows no foe.... Its international organization is founded on the welcome and authorization of the united governments of the civilized world. —E. B. W. CHRISTMAS REVERIES While the tremulous pulse of the universe Is throbbing with "peace and good will," Thus my soul is replete with reveries sweet, Brightest hopes my being to thrill; That the waning days of this century May carry all Aon from the world; That love among men forever may reign, With the banner of peace unfurled. Ei —Ellis R. Shipp RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN UINTAH STAKE: President Sarah Pope was pleased to again have the privilege of meeting with the sisters in conference, and said we had with us two sisters from headquarters and no doubt all would be pleased to hear from them.... Sister Mary E. Irvine said... President Joseph Smith turned the key in behalf of women, and how they had adv anced since that time. We should look after ourselves and not spend so much time bothering our neighbors. When we go before our Father in heaven He will not ask us what everyone else has been doing, but what we ourselves have done. Sister Susan Grant said one of the important missions of the Relief Society was to store up grain and then take care that it is not destroyed. We should always remember our prayers.... —Addie Longhurst, See. THE FUTURE: 'Those who are permitted to live far into the twentieth century are likely to see and learn still more marvelous things than have been made known mn the past. —ditorial Page 816 ISS MARY E. SWITZER is director of the United States Federal Office of Vocational Rehabilitation. She was recently named by the Eighth World Congress of the International Society for the Welfare of Cripples as one of three recipients of the Albert Lasker Award, medicine's highest. She is the first woman to receive this honor. She has also been presented with awards by the National Rehabilitation Association, the Cerebral Palsy, AmVets, Institute for the Crippled and Disabled associations, among others. RS. HALIMA ANEGAY, a twenty-five-year-old widow from Casablanca, is cultural attache of the Moroccan Embassy in Washington and is also assigned to the social, humanitarian, and cultural committee of the United Nations. RS. ELEANORE J. GREENE, a Latter-day Saint of Pasadena, California, has recently been inducted into the Multi-Millionaire Club of a national life insurance company for her outstanding record in life insurance salesmanship. She is the only woman to receive this distinctive honor from her company, and is one of the few women in the United States to receive a similar award.