Work ITleeting— Caring for the Sick in the Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Mecting) Lesson 6 — Elimination of Body Wastes Maria Johnson For Tuesday, March 14, 1961 Objective: 1. To help us recognize the importance of the elimination of body wastes. 2. 'To make us alert to our responsibility in meeting the sick person's need for the elimination of body wastes. UR body must not only have food to nourish it, but it must get rid of waste products which the body cannot use. Elimination is a natural and important function of the body. In health, cach individual attends to such needs for herself; in sickness she may need help. 'The bedpan, urinal, or enema may become a necessary part of the care. Whenever such care is needed by the patient, it is given by the onc caring for the sick without comment or embarrassment. She accepts this responsibility in the same spirit that a mother meets the needs of her baby. A. Giving and Removing a Bedpan Equipment: Bedpan Bedpan cover Protective sheet or pad Basin of warm water Soap, towel, and washcloth Toilet paper. Key Points Do not expose patient. This may be newspapers or a small waterproof sheet. Closed end toward head of bed. Pad mav be placed over closed end if patient is thin, as skin over spine is easily irritated. Important Steps Turn back bedelothing at side. Place protective pad under hips. N Ww 3. Put bedpan beside patient. 4. Have patient draw up her knees. Put With bent knecs the patient can one hand under her hips. <As_palift with you. Be sure the pan is in tient lifts up, slip bedpan under her the proper position. Upper end of pan with vour other hand. Adjust it, should support the buttocks. Replace cover or If patient is very large or cannot When possible have two people, one raise her hips, it may be easier to to hold the pan and one to roll the have her turn on her side and then patient. Place the pan tightly against the buttocks as she rolls back on the pan. 5. Put toilet paper where patient can Unless patient is very ill or weak reach it. Leave her alone. She will be more relaxed. 6. 'To remove pan, place hand under Be sure patient is clean and dry. Hips and have patient bend knees and lift.