DEAR FRIENDS:
	Thinking that a letter from this part of the
vineyard would be of interest to some of your
readers, if not all, I take the liberty of writ-
ing.
	While I reflect on the past, gaze on the
present and look through the gloom into the
future, it causes many serious reflections to
cross my mind. What do those throughts bring
to mind—does it bring always pleasure? I
think not. Is it all sorrow? No, not by any
means; but I think it is necessary for us to have
these trials; in order to make us think, and to
think of the past as well as the future, for in
looking back over our past life we see, very
often, where we have done wrong, and if we
have a heart that desires to do right, we will
make an effort to do so; and let us not think
because we have done wrong that we can-
not do anything that is right in the future, but
let us, each morning that we rise from our beds,
see if we cannot do a little more good that day
and a little less evil, so that when that future
comes, that seems so far and is yet so near,that
we may have some good laid up to balance
against the bad. We call ourselves Saints, but
I fear some of us are not aware of what per-
fect beings we ought to be; I think that we
should live so that the word saint will not be
wrongly applied, for we do not want to estab-
lish anything that is false. Let us try and live
the lives of Latter-day Saints, for we know not
the day nor the hour that we may be called to
depart from this life, and it will then be our
painful duty to give an account of the deeds
done in the body, and of what use we have
made of the time that our Heavenly Father
has granted us.
	If our time and means have been spent for
good and the advancement of His cause and
the comforting of his children it will be well
for us, if not it will be very painful indeed to
our souls. I trust that all who claim to be
Saints may be faithful to the end of all right-
eousness.
	We have a Relief Society in working order,
also a Y. M. and Y. L. Association in a good
condition. There is a Primary Association,
but it has not done much for the past year. I
think it is going to be enlivened up soon; I
think it is the greatest thing for the benefit of
the children that has ever yet been in our day,
when it is strictly attended.
	May the blessings of God rest upon the
young, that their minds may expand.
	K. E. D.


[Column 1]

