EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is a serious question if the risks people
take in sending their children away from home
to be educated do not far out-balance the prob-
able good an education will bring. It is true
that evil is not necessarily evil associated either
with going away from home, or with an educa-
tion; and it is just as true that there is no neces-
sary association of what is commonly under-
stood by the word "greatness" with a college,
or a superior education. The object of life is,
or should be, perfect manhood and womanhood
—that perfection which embraces all the moral,
intellectual and social excellences known to
the age we live in, and to the strong and crav-
ing spirit of humanity.
	Education in its broadest sense implies all
knowledge, and all experience; so that to live
and to retain the power of intellect, is, in that
sense, ever to become better educated. But
special pursuits, special studies (and it is with
these we now deal), do not comprehend that
fuller education which comprises all things.
College education, nor any special education, is
not the great object.
	Like all other segregated fragments of a
grand and perfect whole, it is but one of many
equally important and essential attainments;
like all the rest, it is but a means to an end—
that end, human perfection. This fact does
not detract from the value of scholastic attain-
ments, for all knowledge is a power—but a
power, it must ever be borne in mind, equally
potent for good or for evil. The element of
goodness, or virtue, or moral excellence, is out-
side of scholarly erudition, it exists independ-
ent of it; wider knowledge simply widens the
scope for the exercise of those attributes which
are comprehended in the general term good;
consequently there is a possibility that exten-
sive, or even limited learning may be acquired
at the expense of those higher and nobler and
more desirable attributes or attainments known
as moral excellences, and it is often the case
that the little benefit which college pursuits
and experiences bring to young men are dearly
bought, particularly where the price is the
moral basis, foundation or intuition. That is
why the assertion contained in the introductory
sentence was made. "It is a serious question
if the risks people take in sending their child-
ren away from home to be educated don't far
out-balance the possible good an education will
bring."
	Young men, or boys, sent to college, leave
home at a time when character is forming. The
plastic condition of the mind and the suscepti-
bility of nature at that age, which render in-
struction so satisfactory and productive of such
lasting results—are not without dangers, for
the same mobility of mind and susceptibiliiy of
nature are as often to the influences of evil as
of good. The character is then a tender bud,
developing into the perfect flower, where the
conditions are congenial, but dwarfed, and
scraggy and unsightly if the surroundings are
adverse, or if the care is not uniform. It is
the most dangerous period in the life of man or
woman, the hour when most is needed the
watchful eye of the earnest parent. At that
trying hour the parent who sends his son away
from home influence, or permits him to leave
it, offers him as a bait to every temptation of a
vile and wicked world.
	The faculty of a college deal with the intel-
lect not with the moral nature of the pupil, for
three reasons: First, the parent does not want
the teacher to teach that branch; the faculty

[Column 2]

could not do it, and the student will not sub-
mit to it. The boy is social; he seeks compan-
ions who, like himself, want entertainment.
Study is work, and work, save to prodigies, old
or young, is irksome. To escape study is to
be free from work. They plan to be idle, not
meaning harm, and then begins the awakening
to that endless round of sin, to which the
vices and ingenuity of the wicked and the vile
have, for century upon century, been accumu-
lating. There is no loving, no watchful no
guarding eye. The boy is his own master. He
cannot appreciate the danger, and he tastes and
tastes again, until he drinks of the cup, filled
with what seems to be wondrously delicious
drafts. yet at the bottom of which is the poison
of disease and death. Is it a wonder that boys
fall? Money is sent them and they send it
as they will. Half—nay, three-fourths of the
boys who leave a college, depart from it little
if any the better, intellectually, for the time
spent there, and they are moral wrecks; their
consciences are inured to sin; the highest law
known to them is personal gratification with
such reasonable or unreasonable restraint as
they may determine from themselves. The
fact that all are guilty, or equally "free from
old fogy restraint," as it is put, serves only to
give them confidence, and the old sting is ulti-
mately realized if license in the man, which
begins with the boy, widens the mistaken idea
that it is liberty.
	I was in New York on Thanksgiving Day.
The college boys indulged in a holiday; there
was a brutal contest called "foot ball." At
night a friend asked me to go with him; we
visited several concert rooms, and they were
crowded beyond the power of words to express
with these college students, boys not yet out of
their teens, smoking, chewing, drinking and
drunken. They were swaggering and stagger-
ing about, displaying money, and were the easy
victims of vile men, and of the vile (I can
hardly say unfortunate) women, who crowded
about them like leeches, luring them to that
loss of morality which should be above all
price—that highest intellectual, moral, spirit-
ual and social attainment—virtue. I wondered
how much the mothers of these boys knew of
their college life; and it does not take me long
to decide that the probable benefits were not
sufficient compensation for the risks taken, for
the almost certain evil to follow. This is not
an unusual event; it is the rule where opportuni-
ty is afforded.
	If College education is the great desidera-
tum then send your boys away from home. If
it is only a means to an end I  believe the end
can better be accomplished. Of course this
evil is not a necessary attendant; boys go and
return pure, but the temptation is to all. Those
who resist it are few indeed.
