OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.
	When I look back and remember the great
responsibility that rested upon my father as
first Bishop—his poverty and privations, and
the hardships that he had to endure, the accu-
sations of false brethren, the fault-finding of
the poor, and the persecutions of our enemies
—I do not wonder at his early death. And
when I remember his conversations with my
mother, and can now comprehend, in my ma-
ture years, his extreme weariness of soul, it

[Column 2]

brings to my mind a clause of his blessing,
which says, "Thou shalt stand in thy office un-
til thou shalt desire to resign it, that thou
mayest rest for a little season."
	I think it was the first fall of our stay in
Clay Co. that a slaughter yard was established
on the banks of the river not far from where
we lived: thousands of hogs were killed and
packed for the market, giving employment to
the Saints in that vicinity. The men killing
and cutting them up, and the women and chil-
dren cutting up and trying out the lard,having
a share of all they did, and in this way the
people were provided with meat and lard,which
was a great blessing at that time. I remember
of going with mother, and doing what I could
to help her, day after day.
	While we remained in Clay County the
brethren did all they could to regain possession
of their homes. They petitioned the Governor,
employed lawyers, and tried in various ways to
gain redress, but all their efforts proved to be of
no avail. The Prophet Joseph Smith manifest-
ed great anxiety concerning the Saints in Zion
He was constantly writing letters advising
them what to do, and sending words of com-
fort and encouragement.	Revelations were
given assuring the Saints that the Lord re-
membered them in their afflictions. A father
could not have manifested more love and anx-
iety if his best beloved son had been in deep
trouble, than the Prophet did in regard to the
Saints in Missouri and their persecutions.
	The following are extracts from one of the
letters that the Prophet sent to the brethren in
Zion: "I would inform you that it is not the
will of the Lord for you to sell your lands in
Zion, if means can possibly be procured with-
out. Every exertion should be made to main-
tain the cause you have espoused and to con-
tribute to the necessities of one another as
much as possible in this your great calamity;
and remember not to murmur at the dealings
of God with His creatures. You are not as
yet brought into as trying circumstances as
were the ancient Prophets and Apostles. Call
to mind Daniel, the three Hebrew children,
Jeremiah, Paul, Stephen, and many more too
numerous to mention, who were stoned, sawn
asunder, tempted, slain with the sword, and
wandered about in sheep' skins and goat's
skins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of
whom the world were not worthy. They wan-
dered in deserts and in mountains,and in dens,
and in caves of the earth; yet they all obtained
a good report through faith, and amidst all
their afflictions they rejoiced that they were
counted worthy to receive persecution for
Christ's sake. We know not what we shall
be called to pass through before Zion is deliv-
ered and established; therefore, we have great
need to live near to God and always be in
strict obedience to all His commandments,that
we may have a conscience void of offence
towards God and man. It is your privilege to
use every means in your power to seek redress
for your grievances of your enemies, and pros-
ecute them to the extent of the law; but it will
be impossible to render you any assistance in a
temporal point of view, as our means are
already exhausted, and we are deeply in debt,
and know of no means whereby we can extri-
cate ourselves. The inhabitants of this county
threaten our destruction and we know not how
soon they may be permitted to follow the ex-
ample of the Missourians. We learn by Elder
Phelp's letter that the brethren have surren-


[Column 1]

dered their arms to the enemy and are fleeing
across the river.  If that is the case, it is not
meet that they should recommence hostilities
with them[-] but if not, you should maintain the
ground as long as there is a man left, as the
spot of ground upon which you were located is
the place appointed of the Lord for your inher-
itances, and it was right in the sight of God,
that you contend for it to the last.
     "You will recollect that the Lord has said
that Zion should not be removed out of her
place;therefore, the land should not be sold,
but be held by the Saints until the Lord in His
wisdom opens the way for your return; and un-
til that time, if you can purchase a tract of
land in Clay County for the present emergen-
cies, it is right you should do so, if you can do
it and not sell your lands in  Jackson County.
It is not safe for us to send a written revelation
on the subject, but what is written above is ac-
cording to wisdom."
     The foregoing letter was written at Kirtland
on the 5th of Dec. 1833.  A letter was also
written dated Kirtland Mills, Ohio,Dec. 10th,
1833. 
	"Beloved brethren, E. Partridge, W. W.
Phelps, J. Corrill,J. Morley, and all the Saints
whom it may concern: This morning's mail
brought Bishop Partridge's, and Elders Corrill
and Phelps' letters, all mailed at Liberty, Nov[-]
19th, which gave us the melancholy intelli-
gence of your flight from the land of your in-
heritance, having been driven before the face
of your enemies in that place.  From previous
letters we learned that a number of our breth-
ren had been slain, but we could not learn from
those referred to above, as there had been but
one, and that was Bro. Barber, and Bro. Dib-
ble was wounded in the bowels.  We were
thankful to learn that no more had been slain,
and our daily prayers are that the Lord will
not suffer His Saints who have gone up to His
land to keep His commandments, to stain His
holy mountain with their blood.  I cannot
learn from any communication by the Spirit to
me that Zion has forfeited her claim to a Celes-
tial Crown, notwithstanding the Lord has
caused her to be thus afflicted, except it may
be some individuals who have walked in dis-
obedience and forsaken the new covenant; all
such will be made manifest by their works in
due time.
     "I have always expected that Zion would suf
fer some affliction, from what I could learn
from the commandments which have been
given.  But I would remind you of a clause in
one which says that after much tribulation
cometh the blessing. By this, and also others,
and also one received of late,I know that Zion,
in the own due time of the Lord, will be re-
deemed; but how many will be the days of her
purification, tribulation and affliction the Lord
has kept hid from my eyes;and when I inquire
concerning this subject the voice of the Lord
is, be still, and know that I am God:  All
those who suffer for my name sake shall reign
with me, and he that layeth down his life for
my sake shall find it again.
     "Now, there are two things of which I am
ignorant, and the Lord will not show them un-
to me, perhaps for a wise purpose in Himself,
I mean in some respects; and they are these:
why has God suffered so great a calamity to
ocme upon Zion, and what the great moving
cause of this great afflication is.  And again,by
what means He will return her back to her in-
heritance with everlasting joy upon her head.
These two things, brethren, are in part kept
back that they are not plainly manifest,in con-
sequence of those who have incurred the dis-
pleasure of the Almighty.
     "When I contemplate upon all things that
have been manifested, I am sensible that I
ought not to murmur only in this, that those
who are innocent are compelled to suffer for
the iniquities of the guilty; and I cannot ac-

[Column 2] 

count for this, only on this wise, that the say-
ing of the Savior has not been strictly ob-
served, 'If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it
out and cast it from thee; or if thy right arm
offend thee, cut it off and cast it from thee.'
Now, the fact is, if any of the members o[-] our
body are disordered the rest of our body will
be affected with them, and then all is brought
into bondage together; and yet,  notwithstand-
ing all this, when I know that you, my breth-
ren, with whom I have had so many happy
hours, sitting, as it were, in heavenly places in
Christ Jesus, and also having the witness
which I feel, and ever have felt, of the purity
of your motives, are cast out, and are as stran-
gers and pilgrims on the earth, exposed to hun-
ger, cold, nakedness, peril, sword, etc. I say,
when I comtemplate this, it is with difficulty
that I can keep from complaining and mur-
muring against this dispensation; but I am sen-
sible that this is not right, and may God grant
that notwithstanding your great afflictions and
sufferings, there may not anything separate us
from the love of Christ. 
	"Brethren, when we learn your sufferings it
awakens every sympathy of our hearts, it
weighs us down, we cannot refrain from tears,
yet we are not able to realize only in part your
sufferings.	And I often hear the brethren say[-]
ing that they wish they were with you that
they might bear part of your sufferings: and I
myself should have been with you, [-]ad not
God prevented it in the order of His provi-
dence, that the yoke of affliction might be less
grievious upon you; God having forewarned
me concerning these things, for your sakes; and
also Oliver Cowdery could  not have lightened
your afflictions by tarrying longer with you,for
his presence would have so much the more en-
raged your enemies.  God hath dealth merciful-
ly with us.
     "O brethren, let us be thankful th at it is as
well with us, as it is, and we are yet alive, that
preadventure God hath la[-]d up in store great
good for us in this generation, and  grant that
we may yet glorify His name."


