ONLY A TRAMP.

	My husband, returning home from a short
walk one Sunday morning, related to me a lit-
tle incident that took place while absent. He
said:
	"As I was walking leisurely along, deeply
absorbed in thought, a tramp, as they are com-
monly called,suddenly came upon me unawares.
I saluted him wtth a pleasant 'good morning,
sir,' received a gruff answer in return, and as
we were both going in the same direction, we
both passed along together. The conversation
turned upon the topic uppermost in almost
every person's mind, that is, hard times. He
stated that he had just come from Idaho; had
been all through seeking work—he had rode
but a short distance, and had walked the rest
of the way to Salt Lake City, but the famine
for work being so great he had been so far un-
successful.
	He said it seemed as though there was
nothing but scoffs and jeers for him, and that
it was printed on every board, "There is
nothing here for you." And he also said: "I
shall not starve in a land of plenty. If I can-
not get means by honest labor I shall resort to
other ways!" With this, and other similar
careless and reckless speeches he left me.
	It set my husband to contemplating: Could
it be that we were driving a great many of
our fellow beings to destruction, simply by
giving them careless, cold, indifferent speeches,
when it would not take any more exertion to
give a few kind, encouraging words? for it is
far better to help a fallen brother up hill,than
to kick him down.
	While he was relating this incident a young
girl about twelve years of age, being in the

[Column 2]

house, commenced laughing and jesting about
an experience she, with some other playmates
of about the same age, had had with two
tramps.
	Coming home from school one night, and
seeing a couple of so called tramps ahead of
them; they immediately devised mischief to-
wards them; they threw stones at them, at the
same time calling them abusive names that were
entirely uncalled for.
	The said tramps turned upon them angrily,
thereby frightening them some, but as soon as
they resumed their way they immediately be-
gan their abuse again until they were beyond
their reach.
	Thus it was that two men, fellow creatures,
walking along, minding their own business,
were molested and abused, simply because they
were ungainly in appearance.
	To my question put to her, "Did those men
interfere with you in the first place?" she said,
"Oh, now!" "Then why did you interfere with
them?" "Oh, they were only tramps, and we
wanted some fun."
	Methinks it should be one of the first princi-
ples that parents should instil into the minds
of their children, to be kind to every one.
Never speak a harsh word, or perform a rude
act, just because their outward appearances
are ungainly. Strive to act the lady and
gentleman to all, to the rich and to the poor—
the poor are just as much deserving and some-
times much more.
	Remember that sometimes the fairest flower
has oft hidden within its bosom some subtle
poison, and those who inhale its perfume are
slowly imbibing death; and it is just so with
some people; they are dressed fine, have a
smooth, oily speech, and seem without tarnish
or taint, but notwithstanding all this, beneath
lurks some evil, venomous spirit; and some-
times the humblest flower has hidden some
kind, healing power, likewise with some people
whom adversity has frowned on too severely,
they have an ungainly exterior, but under-
neath all of this may beat a warm, true heart.
So remember and beware, if you scoff and jeer,
make sport of a poor, fallen creature because
of his ungainly attire you may be abusing
a diamond of the first water, for you know we
have to dig deep to find the finest diamonds, or
what would be far worse, this same one might
be one of God's chosen elect.


