THE INAUGURATION OF CLEVELAND.

	An event of great importance to the people of
the United States is now just at hand. The in-
auguration of the Chief Executive of the Re-
public. To all who love their country and ap-
preciate the administration of law and justice it
will be a momentous time. It will doubtless
portend great changes in many places and in
different respects. The Democratic party have
been waiting long for an opportunity to show
their strength in the nation, and at the time of
the election of Rutherford B. Hayes in 1877, the
party felt sure of a complete victory, but were
obliged to submit with the best grace possible to
their defeat. This time there seems to be no
shadow on their cloudless horizon, but all is
clear, and every prospect bids fair to usher in
the President elect with all the pomp and cere-
mony a Republican form of government makes
admissible.
     Already grand and elaborate preparations are
being made at the Capital, and a gathering of
noted people from all parts of the country has
commenced in good earnest. Washington will
be fairly ablaze with splendor for one day at
least, and although Grovesnor Cleveland is said
to be a very plain and unassuming man in the
matter of display and eclat, yet on this one oc-
casion society and custom will compel him to
accept for the day at least the formal attentions
and homage of an enthusiastic and delighted
populace.  The very fact of the long time that
has elapsed since a Democratic President filled
the office most honorable in the gift of the peo-
ple, will serve to heighten in a very great de-
gree the exultation of the people over the vic-
tory, now successfully gained. It is but justly
due to the lofty position of the President of so
great a nation, that some formal steps should be
taken to make the occasion one long to be re-
membered, one significant in all its bearings of
the true spirit of Americanism. It impresses
the masses of the people much more forcibly
than the simple fact itself. They would almost
forget that such an even had taken place were
it not for the pomp and ceremony, the elaborate
display of flags and banners and the noise of
cannons and martial music. The common peo-
ple, plain as they may seem, glory in these out-
ward symbols of greatness. Besides, this is a
day of show and parade and festivities, gay col-
ors and ostentation, when everywhere we see
flaunting in the ranks of the civil and the mili-
tary the most elaborate display in style and or-
namentation. When men and women prefer
the sunflower to the violet, and aspire to aesthet-
icism no matter how insipid and insignificant
they may make themselves, what is the civi-
lized world to expect?
	But not to diverge from the inauguration,
there can be no doubt that everything will be
managed on a most magnificent scale.  It is the
American style to spend money profusely, and
when it is for the purpose of inaugurating a
Democratic President after so many long years
of weary waiting, no pains will be spared to
make it the event of the day in which we live.
	The dedication of the stupendous Washington
monument is barely over, when close upon the
heels of destiny comes a national event of the
greatest significance, either for good or ill to
every citizen of this commonwealth.
	To be sure, much depends upon other things
connected with the office; for instance, it is a 
well authenticated fact in history that it is often
the case, the power behind the throne is greater
than the power on the throne.
	It is thought now that the members of Pres.
Cleveland's Cabinet will be Bayard, Secretary of
State; Manning, Secretary of Treasury; Lamar,
Secretary of Interior; Garland, Attorney Gener-
al; Vilas, Postmaster General, with a probability
that Whitney will be Secretary of navy, and
Endicott Secretary of War.  It is well known
that three at least of these men are pronounced
antiMormon in thier views and will be likely to
approve and justify the harshest measures
against this people.  In view of the new admin-
istration we can see nothing to be hoped for as
far as Utah is concerned, except a change of
officers with decidedly opposite views, and
sometimes a radical change is a good thing, even
if no other benefit be derived from it than get-
ting in new people who are not initiated in all
the ways and means through which the present
officials and their helps have brought about this
religious crusade.


