[Vol15 | September 1928 | Sequence: 13a | Category: Guide | Title: Theology and Testimony]
Guide Lessons for October

LESSON I
Theology and Testimony
(First Week in October)
PROJECTS CONCLUDED

I. The Adjustability of Projects.

Gospel aims are eternal. The joy of man is the aim of his existence. It is a divine purpose, an everlasting objective in the mind of the Eternal. The Book of Mormon declares the existence of man to be joy (II Nephi 2:25) and Jesus set forth the same truth when he said, "I am that ye might have life and have it more abundantly." (John 10:10). The word "joy" is the shortest and most comprehensive symbol of the abundant life. Joy is a kind of happiness of which it may be said, "once happy, always happy." It is enjoyment, the anticipation of which is happiness, the presence of which is happiness and the memory of which is happiness.

All purposes pointing toward; and all projects pushing along lines not parallel with the great gospel aim, lead away from the abundant life; and the farther one goes on one of these tangent lines, the more abject the poverty of life. Projects for lowering standards are always bad.

The projects for reaching the ever-present and truth-anchored aim, the abundant life, have been expanded, modified, and changed to meet conditions. Note the growth and adjustability of the great missionary project—one in purpose but many in its means and methods—once a few men without purse or scrip, now men and women, thousands of them, carrying the message of life, spiritual life, moral life, intellectual life, and physical life, in rich abundance. Once limited to holding conversation by the wayside as did Jesus at the well, (John 6) now speaking to millions over the radio, as did the Father over his radio to the Nephites when he introduced to them the resurrected Redeemer. (III Nephi 11.) Once the missionaries walked the dusty road as did the apostles with Jesus; now we hear of them outspeeding the wind above the clouds to fill a missionary appointment.

Gospel projects are the machinery of salvation and must be adjustable to the people and to their conditions. They are the roadway to reach the top of the mountain of joy and must curve and wind to make a grade suited to the climber's capacity.

The onwardness of a project may include temporary halts as well as the making of detours. The line of march which Jehovah marked out for ancient Israel under the leadership of Moses is vividly illustrative of the necessity of project adjustability. Forty years they were getting from Egypt to Jericho, a distance which a camel can walk in a few days.

II. The Fruits of Projects.

This is not only a great listening age, but an age of looking as well. We still go to the heart-beat for information, but we use the X-rays also. The telephone communication is not enough, we want television. The project of producing Christian character must result in meeting the condition of the hour when the thinking world is more interested in the fruits than in the roots of the tree life, when doing is of more importance than doctrine. And this condition is in perfect keeping with the leadership of him who said, "by their fruits ye shall know them."
