LITERATURE
======================================================================

LITERATURE Lesson IV. (Thirty Minutes.) Ten minute talk on Current Events. Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin. Subject: Franklin's Interest in Education. Sentiment: "Experience keeps a dear school but fools will learn in no other and scarce in that." 1. Franklin as a student. a. Early struggles for knowledge. Altemus, pp. 3544. Crowell. pp. 14.23. b. Language studies. Altemus, pp. 175-176. c. Scientific studies. Altemus, pp. 266-273 Crowell, ; pp. 223-228. 2. Franklin establishes Academy, which later becomes: ; RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 9 the University of Philadelphia. Altemus. pp. 209-213, Crowell, pp. 169-173. a. Development of the scheme. b. Financial basis of the school. 3. Establishes free charity school. Altemus (see note. p. 213.) (Reference to this school is found in the Altemus edition only.) Two years after the academy was established a free school v/as advertised in "Franklin's Gazette," as follows: "Notice is hereby given, that on Monday, the 16th of September, a free school will be opened, under the care and direction of the Trustees of the Academy, at the new building, for the instruction of poor children, gratis, in reading, writing, and arithmetic. Those who are desirous of having their children admitted, may apply to any of the Trustees." A year later the following notice appeared in the same paper '"The charity school opened by the Trustees in the Academy, now teaches reading, writing, and arithmetic to a hundred poor children, most of whom, though from eight to thirteen years of age. had never been sent to any school before nor did it seem likely many of them would ever have been sent to any school if it had not been for this institution." QUESTIONS. 1. Discuss the subject, "Franklin, a Self-Made Man." 2. What is really the important thing in acquiring an education? 3. Compare Franklin with the type of man who is anxious to educate and inform himself only. 4. What do you think of Franklin's "free school?" 5. What great scientific discovery was made by Franklin as a result of his extensive experiments? 6. Amiat honor came to him through this discovery? ART. Whistler Innes: James A. McNiel Whistler is the greatest modern artist. He discovered to Europe the wonderful Japanese art. He  was not appreciated by his countrymen, Americans, nor yet by the English, among whom he made his home. The French, after long years, gave him his proper place. He was always appreciated by a few who were a source of consolation to the 10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN   great artist, whose life is art and art was his whole life led through long years of harsh jeering, taunting, acrid criticism, before he converted the world to his greatness. His etchings are marvels of beauty, and he is as wonderful in painting as in etching. Whistler has had a tremendous influence on the art of today. His art is subtle, delicate, original and spontaneous. To those who can not understand him, it is useless to explain,  for art can not be explained especially the highest art for  that can only be felt. (Read the October Bulletin on Whistler, Sargeant and Brush. Read Hafen's letter and Mary Teasdel's story in "Devotees and their Shrines," for references to Whistler; also the introductory and extracts by Whistler, on pages 17, 18, 41, 94, 103, 109.) George Innes was the greatest American landscapist next to Whistler. He was indeed an artist. His work in studios was very independent. He studied nature closely, sympathetically, and was wonderful in feeling. He was emotional when contemplating nature. In his early life he suffered from epilepsy, but grew stronger through later years. Read Hafen's tribute to George Innes, in his letter. Innes died several years ago, but as he becomes better known, he will be recognized and given his right place among the greatest Americans. George Innes was a dreamer, but his visions were in the highest, loftiest realms of the beautiful. No American should be ignorant of Whistler, Sargeant, Innes. Winslow, Homer, Brush and Woodbury, and no Utahn should neglect to learn something of John Hafen, John Fairbanks, J. T. Harwood, Edwin Evans, Cyrus Dallin, Mary Teasdel, Rost Hartwell, M. M. Young, Lee Greene Richards, Donald Beauregard, A. B. Wright, Wesley Browning, Myra Sawyer, and those noble pioneers, Weggeland. Ottinger and a score of others whose names could well be added. OCTOBER CONFERENCE. The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall October 2, 3, 1914, President Emmeline B. Wells presiding. At the opening session a brief and affectionate address of welcome was made by President Emmeline B. Wells. The response was given in the same gentle spirit by Elizabeth W. Layton of St. Joseph Stake. An eloquent address concerning her new duties was made by the new General Board member, Sarah Eddington.  Four Stake reports were made all very encouraging as  RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 11  follows: Shelley Stake, by Mary F. Freeman; Blackfoot, by Juliet Blackburn Summit, by Sarah Lewis Hyrum, by Louisa; ; Allen; Malad, by Elizabeth Jones; Morgan, by Nettie Durrant; Nebo, by Eliza Dixon; North San Pete, by Wilhelmina Erickson; Josepa, by Ellen K. Makaiau (interpreted by Ellen F. Genison. This last report, being given in Hawaiian by our native Relief Society President at Josepa, was both striking and ' interesting. At the second session. Friday, at 2 p.m. Relief Society Insurance was clearly and simply explained by Elder John D. Giles, who impressed upon the sisters the value and importance of the new movement. The report of the International Council at Rome was given by Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams. Susa Young Gates spoke on the "Mormon" Women in Europe. It is hoped that we shall have these reports published in full in our magazine in one of the early numbers. The address by Ida S. Dusenberry on "Simplicity, Sympathy, Charity." was feelingly given, and the beautiful sentiments found an echo in the listeners' hearts. Officers' meeting at 10 on Saturday, Oct. 3rd, was held in the Assembly Hall of the Bishop's building. Reports of the following missions were given Northwestern States, by Sister: Margaret Sloan. Six branches. Anaconda, Tacoma, Portland, Spokane, Vancouver, Butte. This mission is newer than the others, but is already in a most fluorishing and prosperous condition. The Bulletins are freely used, and good results have followed all efforts put forth, forth. Northern States, by Sister Mary E. Ellsworth. Five branches. Winnipeg. Milwaukee, Rock Island, Bloomington, Chicago. Central States, by Sister Lottie Beninion. Both of these two last reports were extremely interesting and instructive. The Bulletins are eagerly sought for in the mission Relief Society work, the lessons on genealogy being the best material ever used in those missions to attract and hold the interest of strangers as well as new converts. The Relief Society branches in the Northwestern mission has twenty-two mothers' classes studying genealogy and ethics. Sewing for the poor as well as mending for the elders is also a feature of their work. In the Central States mission there are ten branches, one in Texas,  consisting of 300 members probably the largest single Relief Society in the world. The average attendance is also large, being 85 per cent of the membership. Many of these sisters travel four and five miles to attend meetings, but few are absent. 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams spoke, of the New Report Blanks. She said: "The blanks have been arranged and would be ready to mail out to the branches of the Society in November. The work has been done on these blanks by a committee from the General Board and it has been tedious. We were assisted by Brother John Wells of the Presiding Bishop's Office." Sister Williams also reported that the Outline Guide Work will be continued along the same lines next year as we followed this season. In regard to the annual dues, she said that in accordance with the decision made in April, 1914, annual dues are to be paid January 1st, each year. She spoke of our new magazine. Said the Exponent had ceased publication and the Bulletin was temporary. Now, we are to have a magazine to be known as the Relief Society Magazine. It will consist of forty-eight pages, will be illustrated, and the price will be one dollar a year. It will be issued monthly. It is necessaary to get in subscriptions as soon as possible in order to determine the number to be published. We shall expect the stakes to send us as many subscribers as we sent out Bulletins, and as many more as their enterprise and generosity can secure. The circular on the magazine was read. It will be sent to all the stakes. Remarks were made by President Emmeline B. Wells, who asked the sisters to pray for peace, and for mothers and children who are bereft. She invoked blessings on all present. Closing session, Saturday afternoon. The first address was "Attitude of Utah Woman to Peace," by Emily S. Richards. The points dwelt upon were: Women as a rule are for peace. They bear the brunt of war. All men and women should unite to prevent war, and to establish an international commission of peace. Sister Richards was listened to with marked attention, and her words were timely and interesting. The inspiring remarks by President Joseph F. Smith will appear in our January Magazine. President Wells' remarks appear in this Bulletin. A few timely remarks were made by Sister Emma A. Empey, explanatory of the nurse class work. President Louisa Benson of Oneida Stake moved a vote of thanks to the musical director, Lizzie Thomas Edward, to the organist, Edna Coray, to the members of the choir and to all soloists, for the beautiful music furnished during the conference. Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams read affectionate sentiments from the members of the Relief Society choir, expressing their pleasure and gratitude for the work done by the choir leader. Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward, from the members of the choir, and the organist. Sister Edna Coray. After which two exquisite bouquets of flowers were presented to these sisters. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 13 The music furnished throughout the whole conference was of a high character and pleased all with the lovely strains and sounds, both of instrument and voice. The following is the program: Soprano Solo Lizzie T. Edward Organ Solo Edna Coray Soprano Solo Pearl Larson Solo Willard Weihe, accompanied by John J. McClellan Chorus L. D. S. U. Quartette Selection Schettler Trio Baritone Solo Alvin Keddington Tenor Solo Alfred Best Contralto Solo Evangeline Thomas Congregational hymns and special choral numbers, the most beautiful being the ''Bridal of the Birds." and the "Pilgrim's Chorus," were interspersed throughout the meetings. Three genealogical classes were held at 4:30 p. m. Friday and Saturday, and Monday, at which there was a large and appreciative attendance. These classes were taught by Elder Nephi Anderson, assisted by Sisters Susa Young Gates and Lillian Cameron. The subject matter was a Review of Family Group Forms. Numbering, Heirship and Relationship. There was a general feeling that the lessons for the coming year should cover the same ground taken in the past year, in a slower and more detailed manner. A few stakes, notably Ogden and Utah, have completely finished the outline already given, and are ready for new material. But the rest of the stakes desire more time and more careful consideration of the lessons already given. A meeting of stake officers was held on Tuesday at noon to discuss our new insurance work. It was decided to send out a qualified agent from this board to assist the stakes in getting this work started. It was urged upon all the stakes to appoint insurance agents at once in every town, at least, so that they may be prepared to go to work at once. If our agent is desired Stake Presidents should acquaint the General Secretary with that fact. The usual noon luncheon was served and the same fellowship, and sweet comradeship that marks all Relief Society work, attended every meeting and parting of this splendid conference of October, 1914. President Emmeline B. Wells was in her happiest mood, and she was ably assisted and sustained by her counsellors and the members of the board. We had the President of the Church with us. and he was filled with the spirit of inspiration and encouragement. All in all, it was a conference long to be remembered. AMY BROWN LYMAN, General Secretary.  14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN NOTICE. All Presidents of Stakes are urged to take up the subscriptions to our new magazine at once. "We have the full subscriptions of only two states as yet, and it is vitally important that we should have every Stake fully represented and in our office as soon as possible. Please take up this work, dear fellow workers, in the genuine whole-hearted manner that all our Relief Society work is done. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. All communications relating to the general business of the Relief Society should be addressed to the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Bro'wn Lyman, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. All communications containing membership dues or general funds should be sent to the General Treasure^, Mrs. Emma A. Empey, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. All communications containing subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine or relating in any way to the business of the Magazine should be addressed to Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Business Manager Relief Society Magazine, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. All literary contributions should be addressed to Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Editor, room. 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. RELIEF SOCIETY AND YOUNG LADIES MUTUAL CAFETERIA. We are pleased to note the fact that the Salt Lake City Stake Relief Society and Young Ladies Mutual Improvement have joined in a commendable effort to provide a quiet cafeteria for busy women at the Old Social Hall on State street,  where excellent food, well cooked the writers bear testimony to the cooking  is served daily. Prices low, five and tea cents only for each article. Rest rooms above in the Art Gallery are also provided. Success to the cafeteria. OUR ADVERTISERS. We desire to call the intimate attention of all our readers  and they number tens of thousands to the business firms which have advertised in these pages. We have sought the patronage of the best firms only, the highest class dealers in this community. Those who have stood loyally by the Relief Society should in turn receive the loyal and hearty support of every member of the Society. We urge this upon one and all. THE RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN COMMITTEE. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 15 RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE SCHOOL The Presidency and General Board of the Relief Society announce that the next class in the Relief Society Nurse School will commence Monday, September 21, 1914, and continue eight months, in Salt Lake City. Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will be the instructor. It is requested that the Stake Presidents will at once consult with their Ward Presidents for the purpose of selecting intelligent and energetic women of suitable age and of good moral character to take this course in nursing. We sincerely trust that members of the Relief Society realize the value and necessity of this Course of Nursing, as it is a fact that 95 per cent of the inhabitants of our country cannot afford to pay the price of a graduate, hospital nurse, and yet our sick of the masses should receive trained and skilful nursing. We can also recommend this course in nursing as a much needed part of every young woman's education. The tuition for the course will be $20.00, and it is expected that the Relief Society organization in each ward will pay the tuition fee for their representatives. However, any student who wishes to pay the tuition herself may do so, if she accept and sign the Relief Society Nurse Contract, is willing to as published in the July Bulletin, page 14. For full particulars write Clarissa S. Williams, 37 North West Temple, or Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, 79 C street. Salt Lake THOMAS HULL ELI.JAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. Relief Societies' Headquarters For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods. Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request. CUTLER^S, 36 Main Street SCRACE'S BAKERY and CAFE Fresh Bread, Cakes and Pastry Daily Headquarters for Relief Society Visitors. A GOOD PLACE TO EAT. E. L. SAUNDERS, Prop. Phone Wasatch 1230. 24 So. MAIN STREET THE I UTAH STATE It is the our NATIONAL pose of this BANK SALT LAKE CITY Bank at all UTAH times to ren= der helpful ser= vice, and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. Utah State National Bank Your Account is Cordially Invited. JOS. F. SMITH, Pres. ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST" Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Delivery Phones:. Wasatch 32233224 Two Packages One Quality No housewife should style herself particular or exacting who doesnt use Jensens Butters. "Four-in-One" "Blanchard" ONE PRINT W. N. Williams, Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable. Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Qo=Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207. 67 South Temple Street Salt Lake City Utah A Grafonola for the Ward $25 Upward $10 Cash $5 a Mo. Play over in your Ward House records of the singing of the famous TABERNACLE CHOIR Also any records you want for any occasion  dance  popular sacred, etc. Older than the State of Utah Wrtte for Catalogue and FREE calendar. When you buy a Diamond of McCONAHAY you don't spend the money you save it. 64 MAIN ST., Salt Lake City. $22 and up We are prepared to supply you with all books recommended for RELIEF SOCIETY CLASSES ALSO ALL RELIEF SOCIETY BLANKS, BLANK BOOKS and RECORDS DESEBET NEWS BOOK STORE LEADING BOOK CONCERN No. 6 MAIN STREET ASK YOUR DEALER FOR Z. C. M. I. School Shoes They keep the Children's feet warm and dry. Our RANCHO SHOES Will stand the ammonia of the barn yard. "MOUNTAIN" and "THE LEADER" Overalls don't rip. Star Printing Company 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake City, Utah Marion Banks FINE Charlton's Millinery CLOAK & SUIT CO. Up=to=Date Styles AT REASONABLE PRICES for Ladies and GOODWIN CORSETS Misses. This ad. will redeem 10 per cent on purchase at regular price Moved to 242 South Main Street LIFE INSURANCE and the RELIEF SOCIETY Two Great Institutions working in the same great cause  the service and comfort of humanity. Life Insurance provides against poverty and want and distress. If more of our people provided life insurance for their families the burden of the Relief Society workers would be made lighter. JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N. STOHL 1st. Vice President. 2nd. Vice Pres. & Mgr The Beneficial Has Insurance of over $14,000,000 JOEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building DC. W. NIBLEY RICHARD.> VOUNG Salt Lake City, Utah. Member Ex. Com. . Counsel Beneficial Agents everywhere will gladly explain how insurance ''Western Insurance helps you to save, at the same time it is protecting your family' for Western People''