Have You a "Clean Suds" Fetish?
By Elsie C. Carroll
I have often thought that a tub of clean suds looks innocent in its calm, creamy, softness. Yet it is an insidious spirit making its way with regular periodicity into many well-regulated homes, and scattering, without a moment's warning, the serenest domestic tranquility. A housewife who exhibits unerring judgment in most matters of life𨫎ho can dismiss a persistent book-agent with a dignified abruptness her husband might envy; who can say no with the finality of the Supreme Court when it comes to deciding important questions for Betty or Jack; who can argue with apparent soundness when it comes to preparing an indictment against the possibility of using the dining-room furniture another year, or the impossibility of getting along without a frigidaire鍟his housewife stands helpless before a tub of clean suds, her judgment shattered; her willpower, in all directions save one, turned to spongy nothingness. Yet in that one direction her will is dominant enough to defy husband, children, and if need be, health and happiness. While this process of metamorphosis is going on, this transformation of a family-and-peace-loving woman into a sort of monomaniac whose one purpose in life is to get over as much surface of floors and woodwork as possible with that tub of seductive clean suds, she
HAVE YOU A "CLEAN SUDS" FETISH?
stands before the tempter, Eve once more being beguiled by a serpent of destruction. She hesitates. Her glance travels through the basement window at the long line of snowy clothes fluttering in the sunshine, and her hand goes sympathetically to her aching back. It was a big washing. There had been all the new tea-towels she had made last week, and the extra napkins from Betty's party, and Jack had had an unusual number of shirts. Then she had laundered the white counterpane from the spare bed and the white lamb's wool blankets. Why hadn't she done the tan or gray blankets instead, or one of the dark quilts? Then there would not have been all this lovely clean suds left? She was tired. And she could feel those unmistakable rheumatic pains shooting through her shoulders and hips. They were becoming more and more frequent on wash days.鎸t would be terrible to get all crippled up with rheumatism like poor Mrs. Dennis. She looked up the stairs and thought of her own cool room with its soft, inviting bed waiting to rest her tired body. She had counted on lying down for a couple of hours when she was through washing, before time to get supper. She wavers. Her hand reaches to turn the washer outlet. But it is lured to the surface of the innocuous suds. Her fingers stir lightly through its warm depths. Little mountains of soft bubbly foam spring up under her touch. The thing is done! Eve has fallen! She will forego the Eden of those hours of rest and relaxation in her peaceful room. She will doom herself to the wrath of a provoked hus-
205
band, and querulous protests of unreasoning children. A look of invincible determination comes into her face; her lips narrow into a grim line and her tired body straightens with the resolution of an invincible purpose. Where shall she use the suds? Betty went over the kitchen floor this morning and Jack hosed off the front porch while he was watering the lawn. The pantry shelves. They hadn't been cleaned for two weeks. There'd be suds enough for them and for the woodwork and floor of the sun parlor. Does she dare ask Jack to help? He made such a fuss over scrubbing the screened porch last week. He always declares he can't see a bit of dirt and that it is foolish to save suds just to make a fellow work. Dipping out a bucketful of the vapid-looking suds, she marches to the foot of the stairs and her voice, bravely trying to sound casual and cheerful, floats up to break through the romantic enchantment that surrounds the boy curled up with a book in the library. "Jack, wouldn't you like to wash off the woodwork in the sunroom? I have such a lot of nice, clean suds left from the washing." I shall considerately drop the curtain on the bit of domestic turmoil that follows. The other day I took a spring walk out toward the foothills. I was passing a neat little cottage on the outskirts of town when I heard a heated altercation taking place on an open back porch, from the post of which hung a line of freshly laundered clothes. "I tell you I'm goin' to empty that tub of suds." The man's voice was deep and convincing. "But, John, look how nice and
206
clean it is. It will just take me a minute or so to wash down the woodwork in the kitchen and wipe up this porch." There was a pleading note in the woman's tone. "No! You didn't feel well this morning before you started to wash. Do you want to get down sick? You women with your clean suds, beat anything I ever saw. I tell you I'm going to empty that tub." I heard a resolute step followed by an alarmed little scream; then the woman's voice again, which had now lost its pleading note. "John Banks, you just leave that suds alone." One could easily have imagined she was protecting an endangered child from some heartless monster. "You tend to your own affairs and leave mine to me. I tell you I'm going to use that suds. You just let it be." I had to pass on to save myself from the appearance of prying, but an hour later when I returned from the foothills, I saw the worsted John sulkily hoeing in a small garden at the rear of the house, while the triumphant "missus" was wearily wiping up from the bottom porch step the last of her precious suds. This interesting frugality in the direction of clean suds, is a subject to call forth analytic thinking. One observes, of course, that the tradition has a stronger hold on the older generation than upon the younger. For instance, my young daughter can pour out a tub of the loveliest suds without an apparent qualm of conscience. I must confess that it gives me a peculiar twinge of guilt to see her do it, in spite of the fact that I must recognize the saneness in her protests against saving it. While I have never been able to bring myself to the callous throwing away of suds that is absolutely clean and unsullied, I must admit that I sometime indulge in a compromise that would shock my scrupulous mother. When I have a tub of clean suds left, the old impulse, given me without doubt through inheritance and early training, is to dive into a siege of heavy, useless cleaning in spite of the clamor for rest of my already weary body. The new impulse, born of long struggles with masculine superiority and sarcasm on the subject of feminine inconsistency, and of innumerable wise discourses on efficiency from up-to-date offspring, is of course, to empty the suds without any to-do about it. A sort of brain-storm ensues when the two impulses clash, so I compromise by washing out in the clean suds some garment that I know will fade. When the suds is colored, even though its cleansing qualities are unimpaired, I can throw it away with a clearer conscience. So I should advise all women who are struggling between the old and the new impulses, to invest in a percale apron, or cheap gingham house dress of precarious colors, to be used as a convenient conscience anaesthetic. It is easy to explain why this feeling for clean suds has its strongest hold on the older generation. It is but a reflection of those habits of frugality and thrift of our pioneer forefathers, the fruits of which we are now enjoying. Of course, the habit crops out in this age often with conspicuous incongruity. Some of the champion clean-suds hoarders, are reckless spendthrifts in other directions. To understand this we must look into the origin of the suds-saving tradition. It had its origin in the old rain-barrel and soap-kettle of Colonial times; in the old process of distilling lye, by a laborious process, from white woodashes, and of making soap from the carefully hoarded grease-scraps of half a year. When you think of
HAVE YOU A "CLEAN SUDS" FETISH?
those primitive methods鍟he careful mixing of those grease scraps with the right proportion of water and lye, the weary hours of watching and skimming and testing and boiling until the mixture became clear and jelly-like; the cooling and cutting and drying and storing away of the precious product𨫎hen you think of all this, does it not take away, in a measure at least, the desire to laugh at the fetish for clean suds? Is it any wonder that in those days when a cube of home-made soap represented the careful preservation of hundreds of "rimmings" from greasy dishpans, and hours of back-breaking labor; when water had to be hauled in barrels from springs or streams perhaps miles away𡟙s it any wonder it seemed almost sacrilegious to throw out nice clean suds, or that the "feeling" for clean suds should have persisted through the years of increased prosperity which followed those lean years of saving and toil? As I have already mentioned, this feeling is often mixed with incongruity𨫎ith humor and pathos. A short time ago I was visiting a friend whose charming mother still clings to the old tradition. Her daughter is trying to break her of the "clean suds" obsession. Granny always makes the toast for breakfast. Her toast is a perfection of culinary art珻ach slice an even golden brown; each slice buttered lavishly to its very edges, the butter
207
melted into the pores and standing in little shining pools over the golden surface. One Sunday morning as Granny was generously buttering the stack of crisp slices, my friend said, "There, mother, go easy with the butter this morning. There's only another half pound to last through the day." Then she added laughingly, "I keep telling mother that if she would be a little more stingy with the butter on the toast, we wouldn't have to save suds." The poor old lady was so wounded at this remark she wouldn't eat any breakfast. One of her reverenced household deities had been insulted. A tub of clean suds! What does it represent? A half bar of laundry soap at four or five cents a bar, two or three pails of water of which an endless supply may be had by the mere turning of a tap. What does it cause? Unnumbered family strifes; the sacrifice of precious leisure for rest, recreation, pleasurable companionship with children and friends; weary bodies and frazzled nerves𤤖ften sickness, doctor bills珻arly graves. Should there not be a concerted effort on the part of reformatory forces to combat this insidious foe? Perhaps.娋ut if it were not clean suds, you can't be sure it wouldn't be a fetish for something else just as ridiculous.

