Women in Organization Work
By Amy Brown Lyman
There has never been a time in the history of the world when women generally were so interested and so influential in public affairs as they are today. In the practical consideration of social and economic problems, in the field of human welfare, and in education, they are making important contributions. To substantiate this fact, one has only to make a survey of the work of women's organizations and of the activities of women as individuals. This condition has come about gradually as the result of extended opportunities to women, such as college training, woman suffrage, and release of time and energy through labor saving methods and devices. It is a far cry from the position of women today back to the days when no woman could enter a college anywhere in the world, when no woman could vote, and when woman's sphere was limited to the four walls of her home. The purpose of this article is to discuss very briefly the work and extent of the women's national organizations of the United States, rather than to feature the work or achievements of individual women in the various fields in which they have entered and are so successful, such as industry, education, business, and the official and professional world. The first organized effort of the women of the United States occurred in 1837, with the formation of the Female Anti-slavery Society. The next great cause in which they became interested was woman suffrage, which began with the organization of the Woman's Rights Convention at Seneca Falls, in 1848, and which finally culminated in the passage of the Susan B. Anthony amendment to the Constitution of the United States, seventy-two years later, in 1920, granting woman suffrage. In working for the freedom of the black man, American women discovered their own strength, learned the lesson of freedom for themselves, and began to organize their forces in their own behalf, as well as in the interest of humanity at large. It is significant to note that midway between the organization of the Female Anti-slavery Society and the Woman's Suffrage movement, the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized (in 1842), and while it was limited in the beginning to one group and locality, it soon spread across the country. These early organizations were soon followed by others until today there are more than three score in the country.
General Federation of Women's Clubs
By far the largest group of organized women is the General Federation of Women's Clubs, founded in 1889, and with a present membership of two million, eight hundred thousand. The object of this organization is to promote educational, industrial, literary, artistic, and scientific culture, and to promote general welfare. A recent piece of work accomplished by this organization was a survey of both rural and
194
urban homes and a follow-up campaign instituted in connection with the American Home program. The result of the survey shows the equipment in almost eight million urban homes, and in forty thousand rural homes. The Federation is now conducting a follow-up campaign, the objective being to raise the level of efficiency of American home-making by ranging the nation's twenty-six million homes on the side of science and industry, in the struggle to eliminate waste and to conserve human and material resources.
Women's Christian Temperance Union
The second largest group is the Women's Christian Temperance Union, organized in 1874. The present membership of this organization is 600,000 women. The purpose of the W. C. T. U. is to educate public sentiment to the standard of total abstinence from the use of intoxicating liquors; to train the young in habits of sobriety and total abstinence; to secure the full benefits of the Eighteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution through law observance and law enforcement; to promote good citizenship and the general welfare. This organization considers prohibition as a child welfare measure and maintains that the government has a right to decide whether or not poisonous narcotics and drugs detrimental to child welfare may be freely distributed. When the organization was fifty years old, in 1924, the members raised one million dollars for scientific welfare work.
Young Women's Christian Association
The third largest group is the Young Women's Christian Association, organized first in 1858, and
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
with a national board in 1907, and has a membership of 586,000. The purpose of this organization is to advance the physical, social, intellectual, moral, and spiritual interests of young women, and to promote growth in Christian character and service.
The National League of Women Voters
The National League of Women Voters is fourth in size, with a membership of 350,000 to 400,000. This organization is the child of and the successor to the National Woman's Suffrage Association, and was organized in 1920, following the passage of the Susan B. Anthony Amendment. The object of this organization is to promote education in citizenship, efficiency in government, needed legislation, and international cooperation to prevent war. It is now organized in practically every state of the Union, where regular educational work is being carried on.
The Supreme Forest Woodmen Circle
The Supreme Forest Woodmen Circle, founded in 1895, is a fraternal insurance organization for women with a membership of 130,560. The organization conducts a home for aged members and orphaned children.
The American Nurse Association
The American Nurse Association, organized in 1897, has a membership of 70,000. Its object is to promote the professional and educational advancement of nurses, to elevate the standard of nursing education, and to work for a better distribution of graduate nursing service.
The National Woman's Relief Society
The National Woman's Relief
WOMEN IN ORGANIZATION WORK
Society, an auxiliary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was founded in 1842, and has a present membership of 62,550. In point of age and seniority, the Relief Society heads the list of national organizations in the United States. The Female Anti-slavery Society, organized five years earlier than the Relief Society, discontinued its work and went out of existence when slavery was abolished. The Woman's Suffrage Association, organized six years later than the Relief Society, ceased its labors after seventy-two years. The Relief Society has a two-fold program—welfare activities and educational work for its members. The aims and objects of the Society are to manifest benevolence irrespective of creed or nationality; to care for the poor, the sick and unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; to save souls; to raise human life to its highest level; to elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions.
The Girls' Friendly Society
The Girls' Friendly Society, with branches in forty-four states, was founded in 1875, and has a present membership of 60,000. Its object is to uphold Christian standards of daily living in the home, in the business world, and in the community.
The National Federation of Temple Sisterhoods
The National Federation of Temple Sisterhoods (Jewish), was founded in 1913 and has a membership of 55,000. This group is the women's branch of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations,
195
which is comprised of the reform element of Jewry in America, and was organized for religious purposes. The aims of the organization as prescribed in its constitution are: to bring the Sisterhoods of the country into closer cooperation and association with one another, to quicken the religious consciousness of Israel by stimulating spiritual and educational activity, to make propaganda for the cause of Judaism, to espouse such religious causes as are particularly the work of Jewish women.
The Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association
The Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, an auxiliary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was founded in 1869. Its membership is 54,000. Its object is to inculcate faith in God, provide religious and moral instruction, offer training for home-making and citizenship, and establish ideals in recreation and supply the highest type of leisure time activities. The problem of supervision of recreation for the L. D. S. Church has been assigned to the Young Men's and the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, and great development has been shown in this field in recent years. A feature of the Y. L. M. I. A. is the establishment of summer camps in the canyons. A score of these are in operation and can accommodate 4,500 girls.
The Women of the Maccabees
The Women of the Maccabees was organized in 1886, and has a membership of 50,000. It is a mutual benefit insurance organization.
The Needlework Guild of America
The Needlework Guild of America was founded in 1885 and has grown from a small group of wom-
196
en to a present membership of 50,000. Its only requirement for membership is the giving of two or more new garments or a sum of money. Aside from this there are no dues or assessments. The object of the Guild is to collect and distribute once a year new and warm articles of clothing and household linen suitable for the inmates of hospitals, homes, and other charitable institutions. During a two year period recently, two million, five hundred thousand articles were distributed to individuals and institutions. In cases of disaster, the new garments have been especially appreciated by the National American Red Cross.
National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs
One of the most vigorous and active organizations of women in the United States is the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs, which was organized in 1919 to promote the interests of business and professional women, and to bring about a spirit of cooperation among them. Its present membership is 50,000. The organization has recently completed an occupational survey which made inquiry into every factor which can possibly affect the business or professional woman's choice of vocation —economic and psychological. This survey contained also a comprehensive study of salary scales, with causes for fluctuations in them. The Federation is actively interested in plans to encourage girls who expect to make business a career to continue through high school, and if possible, take additional training in business schools or colleges, before entering the business world. To this end a loan fund of $500,000 has been established. This organization is unique in that its membership is composed of actual wage earners
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
who are economically independent as well as efficient and progressive.
The National Council of Catholic Women
The National Council of Catholic Women was founded in 1920. Its membership includes women representatives of every Catholic Diocese in America. Its purpose is to promote unity of thought and action among its members, and to preserve Christian social principles upon which the welfare of the nation rests.
The National Council of Jewish Women
The National Council of Jewish women, organized in 1893, numbers 52,000. The program of this organization includes civic, religious, educational and social service activities. In its department of education, a number of scholarship funds are in operation. A new feature in the educational work is a department of vocational guidance and employment.
The National Motion Picture League
The National Motion Picture League, founded in 1913, has a membership of 25,000. The object of the League is to encourage production, exhibition and patronage of wholesome motion pictures, and to render constructive criticisms to producers before the pictures are released to the theatres. The League has no connection financially or in any other way with the motion picture industry. It is thus able to be impartial in its judgment and to be free from any domination by the industry.
The American Association of University Women
The American Association of
WOMEN IN ORGANIZATION WORK
University Women was organized in 1882. Its membership consists of graduates from accredited colleges and universities only. The Association works for proper recognition of women on faculties and for adequate provisions at colleges for the housing, physical training and social life of women students. Another feature is the encouragement of women students by means of fellowship and scholarship.
National Council of Administrative Women in Education
This organization was founded in 1915 to promote and strengthen the interests of women executives in educational work and to raise professional standards of women educators.
The National Kindergarten Association
The National Kindergarten Association was founded in 1909 to secure the establishment of a sufficient number of kindergartens in the public schools to provide early systematic training for all of the nation's children.
The National Association of Colored Women
The National Association of Colored Women was founded in 1896, to obtain for colored women the opportunity of reaching the highest standards in all fields of human endeavor and to promote interracial understanding so that justice and good will may prevail among all people.
Health Organizations
There are a number of women's health organizations in the United States, such as Medical Women's National Association, organized in 1917; the Association of Women in Public Health, organized in 1920;
197
the National Organization for Public Health Nursing, organized in 1920; and the Osteopathic Women, organized in 1920.
Patriotic Organizations
Women's patriotic organizations have been formed following the various wars in which America has participated, the object being to honor the memory of those who fell in war, to commemorate the deeds of soldiers and sailors, and to guard their welfare and that of their families. They are Daughters of the American Revolution; the Daughters of the Revolution; Ladies of the G. A. R.; Women's Relief Corps; Auxiliary to the Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War; Daughters of Union Veterans of the Civil War; National Auxiliary, United Spanish War Veterans; Service Star Legion; Gold Star Mothers; Women's Auxiliary of American Legion.
Girls' Organizations
Three very interesting groups of girls' organizations are the Campfire Girls, organized about 1910; the Girl Scouts, organized in 1913; and the Bee-Hive Girls, organized in 1915.
The Primary Association
While the members of this group are composed of both boys and girls, this list would not be complete without the Primary Association, an auxiliary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which was organized in 1878, and has a present membership of 109,500. The purposes of this organization are threefold: religious instruction for children; supervision of leisure time; health program—convalescent care for children. All officers of this organization are women. In contemplating this array of women's organizations, one is impressed with the extent of the work
198
and the varying fields of interest and endeavor covered. But, on second thought, two questions naturally arise. Are women over-organized? Is there not duplication of effort in all this work? These are pertinent questions and might apply also to the multiplicity of organizations generally—organizations of women, organizations of men, and organizations of both men and women. There is no doubt that in organization work there is duplication of effort, and especially in department and committee work. But as time goes on, there is no doubt but that through experience, broader
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
knowledge, and better understanding, there will come a closer union of effort and amalgamation of interests among the women's groups, and also between them and other national organizations composed of both men and women. It has been a long, hard road that woman has traveled in the last one hundred years, seeking freedom, recognition, and an opportunity to assist with the world's work. In some instances, she may have gone to the extreme; nevertheless, she has made rich contributions along the way which have been constructive and beneficial and have helped to raise the standard of human life.

