A Spring Song
By R. J. Green
Hear the laughter and the singing That the infant, Spring, is bringing In her wake! As from snowy bed she merges, E'en the willows, oaks and birches New life take!
Every bee and bird and flower In each greening, budding bower All astir At the earliest peep of day Each one busy in its way Just for her.
See the glorious rosy morn Of her drear and coldness shorn Spread her rays! Beauteous blossoms—every hue Bathed with perfumed drops of dew Homage pays!
And the fairy leaflets dance Baby eyes look on askance; All things new! Birdlings twitter, chirp and sing Dainty Cherub—lovely Spring, All for you.
April Showers
By Terrance Sylvester Glennamaddy
April showers And the flowers Of spring.
Morning hours In the bowers Where robins sing.
Daffodils Mid the rills All day.
My heart fills With thrills And a lay.
Tulips bright Over night Have burst out.
Morning light On the height Makes me shout.
Dandelion In Zion Makes me sing.
When I'm dyin' On cot lyin' I hope 'tis spring.
Springtime
By Camille C. Nuffer
Joyous spring is on the wing; And we shall all be gay, When bleak old winter sheds her coat; And slyly slinks away. When chilly frost, to us is lost. And spring has come to stay.
Balmy spring is on the wing, And winter's fast retreating. Loudly blows the old north wind, Round barren cliff's a beating. When Robinbreast, does build her nest And sings her anthems gay.
Oh we shall all be happy; When spring has come to stay.
Joyous spring is on the wing, Old winter echoes low. Daisies peep their naughty heads From out beneath the snow. When sparkling rills rush from the hills, And dance through woodlands gay; Oh we shall all be happy When spring has come to stay.
Fragments from a Spring Day
By Grace A. Woodbury
A dash of sunshine— A splash of rain— A golden measure of bird refrain.
A glimpse of the river— A cool damp breeze— A fragment of rainbow caught in the trees.
The blossoming pink of almond, The white-robed apricot, The weeping willow—tender green, The brown plowed garden spot.
On hillsides, frail spring beauties, Phacelia's dainty blue, Anemones and brake fern, Rocks with moss-green hue.
And weary man responding To awakened appealing spring,— Though his lips may refuse the impulse, The heart within will sing.

