The Pine Valley Flood
By the Late Josephine Spencer
"It goes against my blood," said Peggy rebelliously, "to think of you and Pa going over there to talk it over. If anybody tried a trick like that on me, I'd go to law first, and do my talking after. I can't see what Pa's taking so much pains for—with his papers all straight." "It's just this, Peggy. Pete Haightly has got a half dozen of the sheep-herders over there on his side, that'll swear the cattle's been stole or died off—or anything Pete tells 'em to. My idea is, Pete had the plan all made up to lie about the stock—when he got your father to agree to make it up to him out of the property, if the profits failed to pay for his work." "It's a mystery—Pa making such a promise, anyway," suggested Peggy frowningly. "Oh, but it only would have been fair—with Pete taking charge and seeing to the place over there, that he should have his pay for the work. The mean trick about it is—he's being more than paid—and now means to cheat your father out of his share of the ranch, if he can." "If I was Pa I wouldn't go near Pete. If he'd steal, he'd do any other wicked thing," said Peggy ominously. "Oh, I guess he won't try to do your father any injury," said her mother. "With this deal on of the sale of the ranch, and the dispute he's raised—he would be too sure he'd be suspected. "He'd like to get hold of them papers, though; that's why I was so bent on your father leaving 'em home. If that crowd over there thought he had 'em with him, they wouldn't stop at any trick, to get 'em and destroy 'em. If Pete don't come to terms with me and Abe Snow going over there and testifying before the syndicate agents—why then the case'll have to go to law. Father's papers'll be proof enough in any court to show he's entitled to his half-interest." "Then I'd let Pete Haightly do the troubling and come to me," said Peggy. Amelia Hickley smiled. Peggy's well-known characteristics of simultaneous thought and action, made it certain that the case would have been as she said. It was, in fact, an axiom in the entire Pine Valley region that Peggy Hickley was "the best man and woman of the whole Hickley lot." Every one in the valley knew how Peggy, two years since, when she was only twelve years old, while her parents were absent on a three days' visit to the "other ranch"—had not only cleaned the house from porch to kitchen— taking up carpets, and laying them —to say nothing of scrubbing floors and woodwork and furniture—but had put a bright coat of paint on the porch and all the outside window casings—"a job" that her father with characteristic consistency had been promising to do and putting off for an indefinite number of years—Peggy's innovation making the place to shine inside and out, as it had never done before since the Hickley's advent into the valley. There were other minor things, too, that had helped to build up Peggy's reputation for "smartness" —the Pine Valley opinion being materially coincided in by Peggy's par-
THE PINE VALLEY FLOOD
ents—who were provided with innumerable testimonies, in the daily life lived with Peggy—that the rest of the world knew not of. Peggy's character was such, in fact, that she had—since the passing of her tenderest years—been entrusted with a large share of the family's responsibilities. But nothing else had figured in her mind like the predominant importance of having the precious papers entrusted to her charge during her parent's absence. Ned, who was two years older than Peggy, had not been taken into council concerning the papers, or purpose of his parents' trip to the ranch—Ned's well-known proclivity for retailing bits of family history about the valley, being a serious reason for keeping the affair from him for the present;—and Ben and Lennie were of course too young to share the important secrets of the family—being respectively but six and three years old. But Peggy's pride in her responsibility did not equal her ire at the occasion of it. "They started in to cheat Pa if they could," she still opposed stoutly—ignoring her mother's deprecating shake of the head; "and if I was Pa I wouldn't go over there begging for my rights, when I had the law on my side." "Well, father thinks its better to settle it up without any trouble if he can—" "Yes, that's Pa—-of course," assented Peggy scathingly. But the corners of her firm little mouth softened in a moment, and her black eyes filled with tears. Her father was her dear comrade—she loved him with all the strength of her loyal heart, but his disposition to yield disputed ground, whether abstract or actual, on the score of "keeping 209 peace" was a sore bug bear to the fiery Peggy. "It makes me about as mad as a hornet to think of Pete trying to cheat anyone as easy and good as Pa," she declared. "Well, he can't do it, Peggy—unless something happens to the papers."  Peggy's black eyes flashed. "There shan't anything happen to 'em while you're gone—if I'm alive to look after 'em," she said. "We ain't a bit afraid you're goin' to let em out o' your sight," her mother said. "There—hand me my shawl, Peggy. Here's your father with the wagon." Peggy kissed her parents goodbye—and when they drove away, stood in the doorway and watched thé wagon out of sight. Ned and the two children were going to the station—Ned to bring back the wagon, and the children, because it would be easier for Peggy to get the breakfast dishes washed, and the house straightened in their absence. When the wagon disappeared, Peggy set to work—her deft fingers soon setting the untidy kitchen and bed-rooms in order. She took the precaution of locking the door while she was alone—. For though the seclusion and peace of Pine Valley were such as to make such care ordinarily unnecessary, either by day or night—the fact of the important papers being left in her charge, moved Peggy to cautious measures. The Hickley homestead was not in the valley, where the rest of the colony was gathered, but stood on the slope of the foot-hills some little distance from the canyon— whose streams watered the farms that lay clustered near the southern part of the valley. The nearest house to Hickley's 210 was that of Amos Riser whose ranch lay two miles westward near the base of the 'Point o' the Mountain" —a name given to a hill-spur whose terraced slope jutted in a crescent shape eastward from the further stretch of the surrounding mountains—and thus situated, Peggy felt that discretion, at least, was justifiable—though there really existed no probable danger of her molestation. It was nearly seven miles to the railway station—and the time seemed long before she heard the welcome sound of the returning wagon from the road leading to the house. Ned drove up to the door, and the two children came dashing in pell-mell, hurrying to get out of the rain, which had commenced a slight patter some little time before. While Ned drove the wagon to the barn, and unhitched the horses, Peggy put dry clothes on the children and re-built the kitchen fire, which had gone out. Not that it was very cold—to be sure—being late in May—but the sky had grown so dark that she wanted the shine of the bright flames for company. By the time Ned came in from the _barn, the rain's slow patter had changed to a steady downpour, making the air so chill in a short time that the fire was needed for comfort as well as cheer, They all sat around it—Ned mending his fishing gear, and Peggy darning stockings and telling stories to the children until noon, when Peggy prepared lunch. Afterwards she and Ned made molasses candy and had a pulling-bee for the benefit of Ben and Lennie, who by this time were fidgety, and inclined to be rebellious about staying indoors. At sunset the skies cleared a little, but an hour later sent down a steady downpour, which, with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE occasional short lapses, night, The doors were shut and securely fastened at dark, and for the safety of the precious papers Peggy herself slept in the bed under which the oak chest was kept where they —with the other family valuables were locked. No one could get at them without making a noise—for her father had taken the key with him, and to open the stout oak chest without it, meant both time and trouble. Peggy lay awake till nearly midnight imagining her possible line of defense, in case of the advent of "some of the Haightly gang" into the house
in an attempt to capture the coveted deeds of agreement upon which so much depended. But no thief disturbed Peggy's watch that night—and her imagined plans of circumvention were not called into play. The test which was to challenge Peggy's reserve-power of reliance and courage was far more formidable than her human enemies; and being unimagined—one which her ingenious foresight might not forestall. Next morning the sun shone, and the children influenced with its infection of cheer, and the reaction from yesterday's gloom, arose with buoyant spirits. They had just finished the breakfast Peggy's deft fingers had prepared, and the children were putting on their hats to go out, when they heard the clatter of horses' hoofs dashing up to the door, and a man's voice called sharply from outside. Ned went to open the door, with Ben and Lennie following close at his heels. It was George Hickman, one of the hands from the saw-mill which THE PINE VALLEY FLOOD was located some two miles up the canyon near the big reservoir. He held his horse, whose mouth and nostrils were white with foam, reined close to the steps—and spoke breathlessly as Ned appeared. "Tell your father to step out here, quick," he said. "Father ain't here," said Ned. "Him and mother went away yesterday." The man muttered something under his breath. "Have you got horses here—anything to carry you over to the foothills?" he asked anxiously. "There's three," Ned answered. "The span of sorrels and the bay mare—" Hickman interrupted him. "Get on one and ride over to the 'Point o' the Mountain' as quick as you can. A cloud burst last night just above the reservoir, and that and the rainfall have strained the dam. There's a leak, already, and the bank may give way any time. Don't wait for saddles—I want you to take the word to Amos Riser's people—it'll be right on your way to the Point. I can't take time to ride round there—I've got to warn the valley. How many of you are there?" he asked, reining in suddenly, as Peggy's startled face appeared over Ned's shoulder. "Four," said Ned. An anxious look disturbed Hickman's face. Four—with Ned, the oldest of them, a mere boy, and the littlest a baby. "I'll take the little girl with me," Hickman said, "and the rest of you will have to do the best you can for yourselves. Don't stop for anything—get on your horses and ride over to Riser's and the hills as quick as you can." He leaned over and lifted Lennie from the step, putting her in front 211 of him—and galloped away down the valley. For a moment the three children stood staring at each other in silence—their minds dazed by the suddenness of the news, and the threatened danger. It was Peggy's practical mind that first sensed the situation, and suggested instant action. "We'll have to put bridles on Moll and the bay mare," she panted, leading the way to the barn, "and Ned, you must take Ben on the mare with you. She will ride faster than either of the team horses—and there's no time to lose if we are going to warn the Riser's." It took but a moment's time to put the bridles on the two horses. All the children were used to riding without saddles—so there was no need, even if there had been time—to wait for them. Ned lifted Ben to the bay mare's back, and leaped on behind him. "You'd better hurry, Peg," he called out impatiently. "Seems to me after what George Hickman said you'd have sense enough not to stay here mooning." It was unusual to have to prompt Peggy to action—but in this case it really seemed necessary. She had stepped on to the watering trough that stood near the barn, to enable her to mount her horse—but had stopped suddenly, and stood there with her hand on Moll's bridle, her eyes fixed on the ground in intense and serious thought. She looked up at Ned's rebuke, and spoke almost in a whisper. "I forgot, Ned," she said, her face paler than it had been before—"I forgot Pa's oak chest under the bed. There's all his papers, and money and everything in it." Ned's face seemed to take a paler hue. Though not aware of the precise contents of the chest, he knew 212 that it contained whatever of value belonged to the family—the fact of its being kept jealously guarded by his parents, suggesting that the contents were precious at least to them. In the excitement of the sudden news, Ned, like Peggy, had forgotten all else but the necessity for instant flight, and as Peggy spoke, there came to both of them for the first time, the sense of what the event would mean in case the flood came—even if they themselves should escape. The house and all that it contained—the barn, the wagon—all the property they owned, in fact, except the bare acres of ground on which they stood—all would be swept away. "Did Pa leave the key to the chest here?" asked Ned with a gleam of hope in his tone. "No," answered Peggy. "Then it's all up," said Ned. "We can't carry the chest, horse-back." "No," said Peggy hopelessly. Ned glanced anxiously beyond her towards the mouth of the canyon. "There's no use stopping here to worry about it," he said. "If I could break the box open—" commenced Peggy, her face brightening. "George told us not to wait for anything," interrupted Ned, "and besides, there's the Riser's. They won't know anything about this—till we get there." Peggy leaped on Moll's back, her quick sense of duty quelling all hesitation. Where human lives were at stake, her father's interests—important as they were—must be set aside. As they rode to the gate, Peggy glanced towards the valley. Hickman had ridden swiftly—and she could see people in evident commotion outside the farm houses below—many of them already on horseback and in wagons, fleeing toRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE wards the foothills—which fortunately for them, rose not far from the populated portion of the valley. The three children were in fact further from safety than the other inhabitants—the "Point of the Mountain" being nearly two miles distant. Then, too, they must take time to stop at the Riser farmhouse. Ned's eyes and thoughts had followed Peggy's, and he glanced apprehensively once more towards the canyon. "I guess the dam ain't broke yet," he said, "or we could hear the water roaring in the canyon." The cloud on Peggy's face suddenly lightened. The dread of the water's bursting suddenly from the near canyon-mouth, had kept her nerves strained each instant since Hickman's coming—but Ned's words awakened a sense of partial assurance in her heart. They must certainly hear the roar of the waters, if they had already burst their bounds—the mile of canyon way, with the high, resounding walls of the mountains to send out echoes—making previous warning certain. If one only knew—there might be time, yet, to burst the lock of the chest, and save at least the papers, upon which so much depended. Peggy shuddered to think what their loss—with all that which was threatened by the impending flood—would mean to them. With Peggy, to think, in case of emergency—was to act. They were just out of the yard when she turned suddenly to her brother, reining in her horse, as she spoke. "Ned—I'm going to try and break open the chest and save father's papers. The flood ain't started yet, and maybe won't for a long time. We mustn't stop to talk," she interrupted, as Ned, scowling, uttered angry resistance; "you don't know THE PINE VALLEY FLOOD all there is at stake. If you'll do your part and let the Riser's know—and then get Ben safe to the Point—I'll take care of the rest." Peggy did not stop to parley—nor in truth did Ned. The latter was too well acquainted with Peggy's pecularities of disposition to doubt the eventual outcome of argument, even if indulged in—and besides, his own fear—sharpened wits told him the necessity of the instant performance of Peggy's instructions. When Peggy leaped from her horse to the doorstep, therefore, her quick glance, darted backward as she threw Moll's bridle over the post of the porch railing—saw the brown mare, with Ned and Ben tightly hugging her back—flying swiftly down the road towards the Riser farmhouse. Peggy drew a quick gasp of mingled relief and apprehension. It was one sensation to know that the children were on the way to safety—and another to feel that she herself was absolutely alone—with the fateful canyon yawning like a dragon's mouth—threatening momentary destruction. All that had passed since George Hickman's coming, both in thought and action, had taken few more moments than the telling; and in much less time, Peggy had run to the kitchen—seized the ax from the woodbox and was in the bedroom pulling the oak-chest from its place under the bedstead. Hack! Hack! Peggy lifted her ax aloft and struck blow after blow upon the unyielding oaken lid. The chest had been made for utility in a region where banks were far off and vaults and safes were untransportable luxuries—and its iron locks and clamps and bindings, combined with the hard wood, made a hopeless task of Peggy's efforts to demolish them. It was no shame to her that, when, 213 finally, she knew her task hopeless, the tears blinded her eyes so that she could hardly see her way to the door. For the first time she almost regretted that she had let Ned go. Perhaps together they might have managed the chest. But then, there was Ben and the Riser's. Peggy leaped on Moll's back, and for the second time set forth on her flight. As she reached the corner of the house her glance fell on an object standing outside the barn. The wagon! In her first moments of frenzied fear Peggy had not thought of that. The harnessing would have meant too much time then. But now, since she had stayed so long without harm—why give up, when a few moments perhaps would save the chest and its precious contents? Peggy felt quite sure of being able to manage the chest in this way for though it was strong, and awkward—it was not so heavy that her lithe young muscles—trained with the household work—could not lift it into the wagon. An impossible burden for the horse's back—it would be a light one for the team. How foolish, indeed, not to have thought of it at first. Peggy's heels dealt Moll's flanks a sudden sharp blow. A moment later she had reached the barn, and was leading Moll's mate and Moll to the wagon—where with a skill born of frequent practice, she soon had the team harnessed. It seemed an age to her, though, till she was back in the house again—tugging away at the oak-chest. It took hardly a moment to drag it to the doorstep, but there came the most difficult part of her task. She had backed the wagon to the edge of the steps—the slope upon which the house was built aiding her plan by bringing the end of the wagon almost level with the steps. With the end-board out, she had 214 only to lift the trunk a little distance and shove it into the wagon. Spite of her strength it was a hard task and when it was done—and the end-board replaced, the trembling in her hands was not all caused by fear. Peggy sprang to the seat and gave both horses the whip—sending a last fearful look towards the canyon, as they dashed down the road. A long stretch to safety it was, with that unspeakable terror threatening behind. The road, save for herself, was quite lonely—its only traffic at all being the families of the mill hands who lived in the canyon above the reservoir—and the Riser farm people who lived beyond. Peggy could not doubt that the latter, with Ned and Ben, were well on their way to the slopes of the Point by this time, and though the thought gave her relief—she could not help wishing that someone were near to ride with her. She reached the bend made by the rise of ground—and from here could see both the Riser farm, and the Point, beyond—and could distinguish figures moving about on the level strips that terraced the hillside. Doubtless they were, Ned and Ben, with the Riser family and farm hands. The clear atmosphere made the hills seem very near, and this, with the sight of the people gathered there—gave Peggy a sense of relief. Peggy again laid the lash on Moll and Doad—the animals, unused to such severe discipline, dashed forward at a speed that rapidly lessened the distance between them and the hills. Peggy drew a long breath of relief and triumph. How glad she was that she had waited! Though their house would be lost to them—everything else of value that belonged to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her parents was in the trunk—and that was safe. She had often heard her father say that if he could sell his share in the other ranch—he would tear the "old shack" down, and put up a new house, so that with the papers saved, and the sale to the English syndicate pending—the flood, if it came—might not be so disastrous after all. Just then Peggy's heart gave a great thump—and in an instant the blood in her body seemed to have turned to ice. Far behind, from the direction of the canyon, came a sound as of a dull clap of thunder—yet the sky was like turquoise. The sound did not cease—but rolled into a long, continuous roar, that constantly came nearer. There was no mistaking what the sound meant. The dam of the reservoir had given way—and the water stored in the lake above, was rushing down to the valley. With sudden desperate energy Peggy sat up and took the reins in a firm grasp, and with another stinging blow from the whip—brought the horses to their best speed. The Point was so near now, that she could see the people gathered there, wildly gesticulating—the faint sound of their voices, raised in shrill cries—reaching her above the clatter of the bouncing wagon and horses hoofs. With the lines and whip held in a tight clasp, Peggy sat with strained eyes fixed on the hills. They were quite near now, and she could hear the words the people were shouting. Suddenly, once more, Peggy's heart gave a leap, and then seemed to stand still. The dull roar behind her broke suddenly into a great turmoil of splashing and hissing—like the leap and splash of a monstrous waterfall. Peggy looked back. The flood had reached the mouth of THE PINE VALLEY FLOOD the canyon, and breaking there in a mimic Niagara—spread itself out—a great gray sheet—over the foothills, and came rolling onward swiftly to the levels of the valley. Peggy had time to note, in her brief glance, how quickly the face of the flood narrowed the distance between it and herself. She was nearing the Point now—and could see Amos Riser, with his eldest son and two hired farm hands running down from the upper slope of the hill towards her. They were calling out words of encouragement—and above these she could hear the shrill voices of his mother and wife, who with Ned and Ben, were uttering cries of terror. It was only a little further now—but she was driving up hill, and the horses, spent with their unaccustomed speed, were commencing to lag. The steady swish and roar of the waters were sounding close at hand now, and before Peggy had time to realize that the worst had come—the flood caught the wagon, lifting it and the horses bodily on its strong tide—and bore them onward. But it had not far to carry them. Close in front the Point loomed—and as the water swept them to the edge of the high banks made by its terraced slope—Peggy, dazed and hopeless—saw Amos and the three younger men scrambling down the slope, with their arms outstretched—all of them shouting to her to jump. Before she could obey, however, Sol Riser's hand grasped the halter of the plunging horses close to the bits; then the other three laid hold—and tugging and yelling they pulled the struggling horses up the slope—Peggy, a moment later, finding herself still sitting on the wagon-seat, pulled high and dry upon the comparative level of the Point. THERE were no fatalities listed in the record of the Pine Valley flood. George Hickman's timely warning gave each human being of the little colony time to reach the near hills—only the personal property of the people suffering material damage from the waters. Happily—almost all houses were left standing, though the water stood, for all that day, window high in the rooms of the cottages. Only the Hickley and Riser homes went down—the flood's greatest force being spent near the upper foothills. Widow Sharkey, whose curiosity was one of the exciting themes of the valley, was heard to declare disappointedly after the first few days' excitement had passed, that "if we'd only know'd how it was all goin' to turn out we might have set up on our roofs and enjoyed the sight—stead of turnin' tail and runnin' and hidin' our faces in our skirts up there on the hills, fear o' some o' our neighbors being swept to glory." Peggy was the only real heroine in the valley; and when the waters had subsided, and the community began to regain its usual calm—the story of her rescue of the trunk became the sensation of the Pine Valley region. As to John and Amelia Hickley—who hurried home at first word of the flood—their hearts sore with anxiety and dread—no words existed, in their opinion which were able to express adequate justice to Peggy's exploit. "We'd all be beggars today, if she hadn't saved the chest," her father said. "All I've got to say is, that if the law-suit comes out all right—I'm going to put Peggy in a place where her education'll have a chance 216 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to catch up with her wits. I'd like folks to see what sort of a girl, such a span as that harnessed together'll turn out." When the case was settled, John Hickley came in for a half share of the purchase money paid by the syndicate for the "other ranch"—a sum so generous as to make him independent of the sterile acres from which he had eked a bare living for many years, and which he was glad to sell to the syndicate for grazing land—at a price, which, though not large, yet helped to furnish the new home in the city where they were henceforth to live. The people in Pine Valley declared amongst themselves that the flood was "a mascot for the Hickley's"—the opinion of the majority being that in spite of the ranch sale John Hickley's natural inertia of temperament made it probable that "the old shack" would have served as the roof-tree of the family for years to come—had not the flood acted as a progressive agent, and laid it in ruins. "I don't know about that," said one, however, to whom this view was expressed. "I heard Peggy say once that if the family ever had money, she'd never rest till they moved to some place where it was worth while to git out of bed mornin's; and someway, whatever Peggy sets her mind on seems to go through—like the oak chest that time of the flood. I'll bank all my money on it, though, twas Peggy's idea—gettin' out o' the valley. All John Hickley had to do with it is to put Peggy's plan in pants."
