“THE AUTOCRAT AT EIGHTY.”

	Oliver Wendell Holmes celebrated his
eightieth birthday at Beverly Farm, August
29th. He received many letters and telegrams
of congratulation among them, a short personal
note from his friend Whittier, in which the
latter expressed his regard and deep regret that
he could not that day grasp his friend by the
hand. Many ladies and gentlemen called and
he received a great many beautiful floral gifts.
The following sketch of Dr. Holmes’ Career is
from the N. Y. Mail and Express.
		DR. HOLMES’ CAREER.
	Dr. Holmes was born in Cambridge, Mass,
and breathed a literary atmosphere from the
day of his birth. When old enough to go away
to school he was sent to the Phillips Andover
Academy. Here he began to make verses by
translating the first book of Virgil’s “AEnoid”
in heroic couplets. In 1825 he entered
Harvard. There he was a frequent contributor
to the college periodicals, and when the ap-
pointments for commencement were given out
Holmes was made the poet. That his standing
in scholarship was excellent is manifest from
the fact that he was chosen a member of the
Phi Beta Kappa Society, which selects its
members from those who stand among the
highest.
	The young graduate found himself famous
within a year after his graduation. Many a
literary man has attracted his first literary
notice in a literary way by a few verses hitting
off some topic at the time uppermost in the
popular mind. In 1830 it was proposed to
break up the old frigate Constitution. One day
there appeared in the Boston Advertiser a pro-
test against such a desecration beginning:
		Ay, tear her tattered ensign down,
		Long has it waved on high.
	The author was O. W. Holmes. The piece
took at once, was copied widely in the news-
papers, circulated in handbills, and saved the
ship.
	Holmes studied law for a year at the Cam-
bridge Law School, but if he did not learn more
of literature than law he at least produced more
in the literary field, for he wrote a number of
humorous pieces, which added to his reputation
as a writer. It was destined that he should be


a physician, however, and, having changed his
mind as to the law, he studied medicine under
Dr. James Jackson, and then spent three years
studying abroad.
	But, while medicine furnished him with work,
literature presented a field for amusement.
The year he received his medical decree (1836)
he published a book containing his poems to
that date.  This volume contained one of the
best-known as well as the most delicate mix-
tures of the comic and the pathetic in all his
pieces, “The Last Leaf.’,
	Dr. Holmes served for a while as professor
of anatomy and physiology at Dartmouth, and
in 1849 filled the same chair in the medical
school at Harvard. While he is not known to
the public as a writer on medical topics, he
gained three of the Boylston prizes for medical
dissertations. They were published together in
1838. Besides these he has published half a
dozen books on medical science.
	When, in 1857, James Russel Lowell began
his work as editor of a new magazine called the
Atlantic Monthly Dr. Holmes was called upon
to put a shoulder to the wheel and start the
new enterprise on the road to popular favor.
He began with a series of papers called “The
Autocrat of the Breakfast Table.” Twenty-
five years before he had begun a series of
articles with that title for the New England
Magazine. The papers not only successfully
launched the magazine, but when published in
book form became the most popular piece of
literary work bearing the author’s name, not
only then but ever afterward. Indeed they
were so fascinating that the public eagerly
absorbed everybody “at the breakfast table”
that Dr. Holmes would write about. “The Pro-
fessor at the Breakfast Table” and “The Poet
at the Breakfast Table” followed “The Auto-
crat,” and are still regarded among the
Doctor’s best works.
	In verse Dr. Holmes has touched very little
that is not especially noted for the sparkling
rather than the poetic. He has written some
pieces, however, in which there is the true
poetic ring. Perhaps the best specimen of this
kind of verse in his works is “The Chambered
Nautilus.” The most marvelous feature, how-
ever, about him is the work which he has been
able to do upon occasion. Let there be a
meeting of his classmates to celebrate their
past in college, a dinner of doctor’s, a supper
of authors, Dr. Holmes would be called upon
to cook up something choice in verse to grace
the literary menu. And when the feast was
set the Doctor’s dish would not only be de-
voured by the classmates or doctors or authors,
but would be seized upou by the whole public.
Indeed many of his choicest pieces were pro-
duced in this way.
	Dr. Holmes, during his long life in literature
wrote only two novels—“Elsie Venuer,” a
study of heredity, and “The Guardian Angel.”
	Beyond his literary work Oliver Wendell
Holmes is known among his friends as a genial
companion and especially as a wit. In his
poetical works, best of all American poets, he
touches the modern taste. Such poets as Will
Carleton, Lowell in his “Biglow Papers,” Bret
Harte, and John Hay are of this school, but
Holmes overtops them all. While the plane
ou which his poems are written is far higher
than theirs. In some there is a depth of mean-
ing unnoticed by the casual reader, but what
remains is so good that it stands of itself. The
“Wonderful One Horse Shay,” for instance,
was written to show a collapse of logical rea-
soning. But few of those who have read it
know this; yet the “One Horse Shay” still lives,
perhaps the most popular of all the Doctor’s
efforts, fortunately for his admirers the
author still lives, and is honored not as a poet,
author, wit, humorist, alone, but as an original
in all these, and as the most genial and lovable
of men.


