		MRS. HUMPHREY WARD.

	Everybody knows how Mrs. Humphrey
Ward writes. Many know how she looks, but
few have heard her talk in debate. That she
should do so in Dublin, under circumstances
which enable many friends (Americans, a few
among them) to hear her, will not surprise you
so much when I add that her father is one of
the best known figures in the learned society
of the Irish capital, and is an undisputed
authority upon a large number of important
subjects. The esprit of the various literary
institutions here finds vent in a club known as
the Cosmopolitan. It meets in the apartments
of C. H. Oldham, one of the leading Protest-
ant home rulers. Dublin is one ot the most
delightful of insular cities. Its social life has
all the repose of learned leisure. Nobody
among its scholars is rich. Nearly every man
of note in the higher institutions of learning
is interesting, clever and more or less distinc-
tion in some special pursuit. The wit of the
Irish race, which is said to be declining among
the middle class Irish as  schooling makes
them too literal, flourishes, not without a
flavor of the conservative, perhaps in the
cosmopolitan.
	A walk within an area of a few acres in
Dublin will enable the visitor to see, as they
perform their duties in connection with the
schools, Edward Dowden, the Shakespearean
scholar; Professor Galbraith, Dr. Mahaffy, the
author of various works on social life in
Greece and the “Art of conversation,” who is
now in America; Anthony Traill, the natural
philosopher; Thomas K. Abbott, the Hebrew
scholar; Dr. Robert Ball, the astronomer
royal, and Samuel Haughton, of who Darwin
relates in one of his letters in the “Life” that
he told the Geological Society in Dublin in
1859 that the speculation of Darwin and
Wallace would not be worth notice if it had
not the weight of Lyell’s name supporting its
promulgation. Professor Haughton is. Bourbon
in science as in many other things.
	Lord Dufferin is chancellor of the
Royal university, of which Thomas Arnold is
lecturer on English literature. In the same
institution are Dr. Sigerson, the author of
“Irish Land Tenures” and a volume of ad-
mirable poems. He is also a practicing
physician of eminence, and an ardent nationa
list. One may find here any number of
stories about Burke of “Burke’s Peerage,”
which was written in a little room in this
ancient town; and many lovers of Archbishop
Trench delight in recalling the pleasant hours
spent with that charming man in the years
when he was devoting himself a little to preach-
ing and a great deal to philological recreation.
	Mrs Humphrey Ward was a special guest of
the Cosmopolitan club the other night. She
was accompanied by her father, who is the
second sen of Arnold of Rugby. “Tom
Brown’s” Arnold. Mrs Ward does not very
closely resemble the portraits of her which
have become most familiar. She is not dark,
austere, and acute of face, as might be in-
ferred from the sharp outlines of the black
and white sketches. On the contrary, she is
of that medium type between blonde and bru-
nette which is popularly denominated “fair.”
Her head is not strikingly large; her features
are long and not perfectly regular, expressive
of power and continuity rather than of effemi-
nent dilettantism. Her forehead is pretty well
concealed by the old style of combing the hair
down smoothly on either side. Her hair has a
positive tendency to wrinkle and wave—to
crinkle, rather, like waves under a very gentle
wind.
	Her eyes are full, luminous, and one
would be venturesome to say of what color,
perhaps gray, perhaps chestnut, perhaps brown,
or blue. They are of various hues according
[column 2]
to the external light and the internal occupa-
tion. They look gravely brown when she
thinks long at a time upon the same subject;
they become childishly blue and merry when
the smiles parts the rather full lips (especially
is the upper lips full) and she gives forth a
pleasant, although obviously a restrained laugh.
Her hands, as they escaped now and then from
silken draperies, proved to be large, shapely
and artistic.
	She wore a white gown cut in a way that
may be called a modification of the reigning style.
It was not rigorous directoire, but presented
the favorite long lines of that favorite mode.
Her figure being easily suited, being tall,
pliable, and well proportioned, she would look
well in anything; but her graceful presence
was somewhat hidden by her evening mantle,
which she did not discard, its copious folds
falling around her, sybil-like, as she sat quite
at ease, simple and free from self-consciousness,
yet knowing that she was the cynosure of a
brilliant company. One would not call her
beautiful or even a handsome woman; but she
impresses every one with the dignity, the
strength and the reserve of her intellectual
force, and is as amiable and kindly in manner
as if she were the unknown author of "Miss
Bretherton,” instead of, perhaps, the most
widely known novelist living, and the un-
doubted successor of her illustrious country
woman, George Eliot. I am not sure that the
latter phrase is justified, for Thomas Arnold
went to New Zealand in his youth as an in-
spector of schools, and from that country was
transferred by the British colonial office, of
which he was a subordinate, to Tasmania.
There he married Julia Sorrel, granddaughter
of a former governor, and there Mary Augusta,
their eldest daughter, was born. The relation-
ship between father and daughter, strange to
say, is the foundation of “Robert Elsmere”
the intellectual and moral relationship, for, all
gossip to the contrary, it is true that in the
evolution and devolution of her father’s relig-
ious beliefs the daughter found the genesis of
her hero-preacher. Old Dr. Arnold, it will be
remembered, lived a good part of his august
and beautiful life amid the surroundings and
within the precincts that transferred so large a
number of Oxford scholars to the communion
of Rome. He firmly believed in the divinity
of Christ, although somewhat disposed to
Unitarianism in other matters. He was at one 
time expected to follow Newman, but he
lingered with Keble. One of his sons,
Matthew, became in time the disciple more of
Francis than of John Henry Newman; but
Thomas Arnold, the younger, entered, while in
Tasmania, the Church of Rome. On return-
ing to England he prayed, meditated, and
studied at the oratory in Birmingham, within
the shadow of Joseph Chamberlain’s modest
old home, which he has discarded for a pre-
tentious new one; but after the lapse of a few
years, a portion of the period being spent as
professor in the now defunct Catholic uni-
versity in Dublin, Mr. Arnold discarded the
dogmas of Roman Catholicism and returned
to Oxford, very much in the condition of
another character in the novel, who believed
nothing. It was while he was engaged on his
various text books there that his daughter met
Thomas Humphrey Ward, whose father was
vicar of St. Barnabas’s, King’s square, London,
and who in his younger days was as conserva-
tive in his religious views as he is now indefi-
nite in them. Mrs. Ward assisted him in the
prearation of the critical estimates of many
of the “English Poets,” their colleagues being
Matthew Arnold, Thomas Arnold, Edmund
Gosse, Andrew Lang, George Saintsbury,
Downden, Austin Dobson, Swinburne, the
Dean of Westminister (Stanley), and the late
Lord Houghton. The conversation upon
music and art which so abounds in “Robert


[column 1]
Elsmere” discloses the companionship of Mrs.
Ward with her husband, who is one of the
most accomplished writers on these subjects in
England.
	It was, therefore, as inevitable that Mrs.
Ward should deal with the religious problem
in her first successful book,as that George Eliot,
also cradled in professional religiousness,should
deal with the same perplexing phenomena in
life and conduct. She spoke at the Cosmo-
politan upon the same theme. The subject
nominally under discussion was whether the
world would not be quite as moral without
Christianity. It was chosen in deference to the
distinguished guest. The company would have
been delighted to hear her speak on any sub-
ject; but on one she was eminently fitted to dis-
cuss she showed an obstinate reticence
due in part to the sophistries of some of the
loquacious scholastics present, who are as hair-
splitting in Dublin as their ancestors were in
Paris or Bologna centuries ago; and in part,
perhaps, to a high-bred unwillingness to seem
to make shop of her own work: Her father
spoke readily and effectively, but not with a
view to registering himself on either side of the
proposition. The majority of the speakers were
quite willing to believe that the morality
of Platonism was as pure as that of Christ,
Hellenic culture being a favorite in both old
and the more modern Royal University. The
discussion drifted away from the direct inter-
rogatory and became a more assertive talk, in
which somebody at last aroused Mrs. Ward by
saying that there was no morality left in the
world except among the aristocracy. The
assertion was preposterous, of course, but it
was ingeniously and persuasively made, the al-
leged excess of crime among the lower classes
and the strong Philistinism of the middle
classes being cited in its support. Mrs. Ward
shook her head very emphatically and at last
entered the lists.
	Her voice is clear, sympathetic, and finely
cadenced, the pitch being agreeably variable
and the intonation indicating the careful habit
of thinking clearly before speaking, and of
speaking in the best language and with a deli-
cate sense of voice quality. Her manner is
wholly free from forensic suggestion or didactic
assumptiveness. She might have talked about
the weather in the same musical, colloquial
way. Nor did she appear to be conscious of
saying aught of the least importance, but every
word was listened to with eager attention. She
said in effect that morality was not the exclu-
sive possession of any portion of the world, or
of any class, and pressed, with eloquent but
well restrained vehemence, the point that
throughout the mass of the English people
especially, there is a sturdy and real morality
which does not label  itself aggressively as
Christian or other, but is in aim and in in-
spiration Christian. Without offering any dis-
paraging words in relation to the aristocracy
arid their virtues, it was manifest that she did
not esteem them monopolists of morality in
their day, Christian or other. It was impos-
sible to deduce from her words, which were
happily chosen without strain or affectation,
whether she had any belief on the main ques-
tion under consideration.
	In private conversation Mrs. Ward can be
either gay and humorous—and richly so—or
impressive and refreshing. Her power of con-
versation extends over many topics. She has
essentially an aesthetic rather than a philosophic
or scientific mode of looking at everything, and
I fancy would be liable to apply standards of
taste where more syllogistic logicians would in-
sist upon colder methods of investigation.
When free from the bonds that effect on semi-
pnblic occasions every cultivated woman, Mrs.
Ward is pungent, brilliant and witty; but on
this occasion she seemed to be studying unusual
types of human beings rather than to be con-
[column 2]
cerned in expressing herself. Indeed here re-
serve was noticeable.
	Her father states that she and her family
were simply astonished at the success of her
novel. Wise and devoted counselors, after
reading the manuscript, gravely discouraged
her from attempting to print it. When,
despite their timidity, she found a publisher,
her household and intimate friends, who were
in the secret, expected that it might possibly
attract the attention of a few reviewers. That
it should become, as it still indeed is, the sensa-
tion of years, was and is to them a mystery.
It is confidently asserted that Mrs. Ward will
visit New York next winter.—The Oregonian.


