PICNIC IN THE WOODS.

	Early in the morning the party of a dozen
and more left town in open vehicles and on
horseback well equipped for fishing hunting
and feasting; and all in a jolly good humor, on
pleasure bent, though there had been two or
three disappointments, from different causes
before starting, and one break down before we
reached the foot of the first hill; but as the
horses stopped when the wheel ran off, and no
one was hurt, or even thrown out—it was
looked upon as a very lucky accident even if it
did hinder us for a couple of hours.
	Up in this Northern Territory there is not
too much sunshine even in August, and from
the recent fires there is still smoke in the air.
Our road lay where the woods are almost con-
tinuous on both sides of the way though it
winds round and round the mountains, yet
there were traces at intervals of the terrible
fires that have been devastating this beautiful
reigon of country. The horses were spirited
and the ride with the woodland odors around
us was refreshing. On and on we wound, up
and down, in and out, only occasionally seeing
a miner’s log cabin until finally reaching an
open glade, where there were a few dwellings
and a pretentious quartz mill, running briskly
with a good supply of water, and farther up the
mountain stream we were told was a good sub-
stantial saw mill, in working order. This was
once, only a short time ago, the prosperous
town of Osborne; and a mile or more further
on was Eagle where in the Spring of 1884
there were 6,000 people. It is now a deserted
hamlet with only a few families; there are
several such deserted places round about here.
The Eagle river supplies water for the mills,
and other purposes and is a pretty winding
mountain stream, making a charming variety
in the scenery. Occasionally we were told that
the road was much more picturesque before the
recent fires, which have been very fierce and
terrible, though along this road there had been
more of what is termed back fires, running up
the mountain on the other side and down on
this, and fires do not rage so fiercely running
downward as when climbing upward.
	There is still what the Westerners would call
“a smart sprinkle” of pine trees and shrubbery
though the black stumps and fallen trees
burned to cinders are not altogether hidden
here and there is the mountain ash with its rich
clusters of bright red berries, and Elder bushes
covered with the ripe luscious blue-berries;
these diversified the scenery.
	There are many spruce and fir trees among
the pines, with  a few hemlocks and other
varieties, but it is almost entirely a forest of
dark tall pines, through which the wind sings
soft lullabies, and anon sighs mournfully, as a
funeral requiem for the dead, then perhaps
shrieks, moans, cries piteously, or changing
again fairly howling in majestic fierceness.
But notwithstanding the song of the pines so
delightfully sympathetic we journey on for the
Major by whose side I am sitting is very loqua-
cious, and has an agreeable, deep sonorous
voice; and he tells me many interesting things
of Mexico and other countries he has visited
and coming back to the present, of his “well-
made scheme,” now in progress of a bed rock
flume, which matter I will not here explain,as
this party is a social affair and not an industrial
enterprise.
	After driving about ten miles we come to a
beautiful mountain river the North Fork of
the Coeur d’Alene and in a clearing a camp is
in sight;—a lone fisherman on the rocks is

[Column 2]
hauling in the fish, much to the discomfiture of
some of the ladies, but totally unheeding, fishes
on and on.
	By the large white tent sits a young woman
at perfect ease, as though there were no
disturbing elements in all the world; two men
are busy making preparations for our  coming.
We unloaded some distance away as it would
have been impossible to drive nearer and the
provisions etc., were put in a skiff and some of
the party also went in the boat, I preferred to
walk even at the risk of crossing difficult places
on logs. It was a delightful day and the river
was lovely indeed and looking across it at the
tall cotton woods and very old pines all the way
up the high mountain side reminded one of
those immortal lines.
		“This is the forest primeval
		The murmuring pines and the hemlocks
		Bearded with moss, and in garments green."

	The view was most inspiring but we were a
party and one is expected on such occasions to
be social and not sentimental, to join in the
conversation and help amuse and entertain.
One or two of the ladies and gentlemen took
the fishing rods to try their luck, and one of
the young ladies marched up the river with a
gun, followed by a slender,genteel young man,
just from New York City, whom the gentlemen
designated as a “tenderfoot.”    Hammocks
were swung, magazines brought out and the
rest of us were left to follow our own inclina-
tions, and as the company was composed of
men of military fame and legal ability, the
ladies were glad to listen. There were two
Majors a Colonel and a General, three or four
lawyers and a Judge and of course others equally
brilliant if not titled.
	It was soon time for refreshments however,
and a fire was kindled in the middle of a pile
of rocks; and fish [---] and coffee made and
the cloth spread, and the guests gathered
around, partaking with a relish the tempting
viands.
	Afterwards we gathered wild flowers, ferns
and boughs of evergreen, and as the sky
darkened we began to think of turning our
faces homeward. The horses were harnessed
the things put into the boat and we wended our
way across the rough places after bidding good-
bye to the grey-haired General and Mrs.
Vickors, who remained at the camp,  having
one down there for a few days hunting and
fishing. Before we started the rain was pour-
ing, and we were really unprepared, as the
morning had been very fine, but the ladies had
the use of the men’s hunting coats and what
parasols had been taken out were put to good
use; but a sorry sight we were to gaze upon.
We were all glad of the rain nevertheless, and
hoped it would effectually extinguish the fires,
that were still burning in places on the
Mountains and deep down at the roots of many
trees; but as we came towards home we saw
two tall trees blazing fiercely though the rain
was pouring in torrents. We felt sure the
flames could not hold out long and so com-
forted ourselves and drove on. The party
were all in fine spirits, a merry crowd; it had
been a most delightful day for the writer, meet-
ing new people, seeing new places, hearing
good stories well told, and listening to the
music of nature’s voices, and quietly commun-
ing and forming pictures in her mind to be
framed hereafter and set in the halls of
memory.
							AUNT EM.
	Murray, Idaho August 31, 1889,


Mrs. Allen Hamilton, a sister of Congress-
man Holman, of Indiana, who died recently
at Fort Wayne, bequeathed $1,000 to the
cause of woman suffrage, the money to he held
in trust by Mrs. Lucy Stone and Susan B.
Anthony.


