THEIR AGES.

	Sarah Orne Jewett will be forty next Sep-
tember, Humphrey Ward is thirty-eight, Lucy
Larcum is sixty-three,Harriet Prescott Spofford
is fifty-four, Edith M. Thomas is fifty-five,
Marion Harland (Mrs. Terhune) is fifty-nine,
Amelie Rives-Chanler will be twenty six next
August, Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett is
thirty-nine, and she published her first story


when only eighteen, Celia Thaxter is fifty-three,
Mrs. Croly (Jenny June) is fifty-seven, Rose
Terry Cook is sixty-two, Elizabeth Stuart
Phelps-Ward was forty-five in August, Miss
Louise Imogen Guiney is twenty-seven, Con-
stance Fenimore Woolson is forty-one, nobody
ever found out the exact age of Miss Woolsey
(Susan Coolidge), but it is  believed that she
was born in 1845, which would make her age
forty-four, Mrs. Margaretta Wade Deland,
author of “John Ward, Preacher,” is thirty-
one, Mrs. Mary Mapes Dodge is fifty-one, and
Mary Abigail Dodge (Gail Hamilton) is at
least eight years older, though the records are
not quite sure upon this delicate point. To take
some of the most popular of the male authors
who are writing now, F. Marion Crawford is
thirty-five, and he wrote “Mr. Isaacs” when
only twenty seven, Robert Louis Stevenson is
thirty-nine, W. D. Howells is fifty-two, E. W.
Howe, whose ‘ The Story of a Country Town”
made so great a hit, is thirty-five, Bret Harte
is forty-nine, Julian Hawthorne is forty-three,
Richard Malcom Johnson is sixty-seven, and
Rossiter Johnson is forty-nine, Arlo Bates is
thirty-nine, Walter Besant is fifty-one, Thomas
Bailey Aldrich will be fifty-three next Novem-
ber, William Black is forty-eight, William H.
Bishop is forty-two, General Lew Wallace is
sixty-two, and he wrote "Ben Hur” when fifty-
one, John Habberton, the author of “Helen’s
Babies,” is forty-seven, Joel Chandler Harris is
forty one, George W. Cable is forty-four,
Edward Eggleston is fifty-one, and looks fifteen
years older, H. H. Boysen is forty, H. C. Bun-
ner is about thirty-eight, James Anthony
Froude has begun now to write novels at the
age of seventy-one, Frank R. Stockton is fifty-
five, William Hamilton Gibson is forty-eight,
Thomas Nelson Page is thirty-six, James
Whitcomb Riley was born in 1852, James
Payn is fifty-nine, Blander Matthews is thirty-
seven, J. T. Trowbridge is sixty-one, and Jules
Verne is the same age, while Edgar Fawcett
was forty-two on May 26th last.
