EDITORIAL NOTES.

	On the 7th of this month a number of the
sisters paid their respects to Sister Presindia L.
Kimball it being her birthday anniversary. The
guests numbered fifty or more and they came
laden with good things, and with presents in
commemoration of a day which they keep annually
in an appropriate way. Sister Presindia has now
entered upod her 80th year, having been born in
1810. She is a woman of remarkable power, and
wonderful experiences, a fine presence; and
possessing many of the gifts of the Gospel in a
rare degree. Her name is known throughout all
Israel for her good works and ministrations, par-
ticularly to the sick and distressed in body or
mind. Although not present at the birthday
party we extend the most sincere congralutations
to Sister Kimball and trust her usefulness may
continue yet many years to come.

	The September number of “The Answer” pub-
lished in the interests of the “School of Journal-
ism,” at Detroit, Michigan has been received and
is an interesting paper. Something out of the
usual order and a woman’s enterprise. Miss Clara
Selleck Editor. She is spoken of as a young wo-
man of ability, and certainly the one number we
have seen speaks well for the management of the
paper. Among the patrons of this school of
journalism as published in its columns we noticed
the names of some of the prominent women in
literature and newspaper role. Miss Rose Eliza-
beth Cleveland, sister of Ex-President Cleveland,
Holland Patent, New York, Mrs. Dr. Bennett,
Chicago, Ill., Mrs. Cora Wheeler, Boston, Mass.,
Mrs. Col. Hallam, Mrs. Mohl, Mrs. C. S. Lock-
wood, Miss McPherson, Judge Harlan, Miss
Snow and others, Washington D. C. If the


School of Journalism is all that it is claimed to be
by the paper which represents it, certainly much
improvement may be positively expected in those
who have opportunities of availing themselves of
its advantages.

	Mrs. A. M. Longshore Potts M. D. a graduate
of the Philadelphia Woman’s College, will lecture
in the Salt Lake Theatre next week as follows,
Monday, Tuesday and Thursday evenings, Sept.
23, 24, and 26, commencing at 8 o’clock. Also
afternoon lectures to ladies only Tuesday,Wednes-
day, Thursday, Friday and Saturday Sept. 24, 25,
26, 27, 28, commencing at 3 o’clock. Saturday
Sept. 28, at 8 p. m. lecture to both sexes on Love,
Courtship and Marriage. We acknowledge
courtesy of invitation. If one can judge by the
press notices of Mrs. Potts it will certainly be
pleasant and instructive as well as entertaining to
hear her speak. Women are so severely criticised
when they appear on the lecture platform that we
really think the Doctor must possess a wonderful
power of fascination or exceptional ability to have
recieved such flattering encomiums of praise and
appreciation from newspaper men. “The Phila-
delphia Press said of her, Mrs. Dr. Potts is
very winning and attractive and always capable of
holding the attention of a refined and intelligent
audience. Many of the follies of mankind were
shown up in a most amusing, crushing, sarcastic
and witty manner by the lecturer, and her audience
was forced to break out frequently in the heartiest
laughter.” New York Herald “She is not
only an able, scientific woman, but a brilliant and
eloquent speaker.” There are other notices we
have seen from journals in America and other
countries, but these are sufficient to show that she
is held in high esteem as a public lecturer, and it
will without doubt be a great intellectual treat to
listen to her persuasive eloquence.


