			BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Ladies' Semi annual Confer-
ence eld at St Charles July 13th and 14th
1889. Saturday 10 a. m. Pres Julia P.
Lindsey presiding, Choir sang "Praise Ye the
Lord." Prayer by Wm M. Allred. Choir
sang "I saw a mighty angel fly." Roll of
Stake officers was called, minutes read and ap-
proved, verbal reports from the several
branches were given in the usual order.

[column 2]
	Pres. Lindsey then addressed the congre-
gation on the subject of charity and of per-
forming our different obligations in a manner
that would be satisfactory to ourselves and ac-
ceptable to God. Would like to see each
branch of the Relief Society in Bear Lake
Stake more energetic in sending some one to
report the respective organizations. Refered
briefly to some of the calamities that were now
being visited upon the nations of the earth,
and the importance of living lives of true
Latter-day Saints.
	Coun. E. Collings was the next speaker. She
bore her testimony to the truth of the Gospel,
and made some very encouraging remarks to
those who were striving to live their religion.
Pres. Annie Laker spoke for a short time on
the training of children and the obligations
parents were under to God when he entrusted
children to their care.
	Singing "One by one the sands are running"
&c.
		Benediction by Bishop Matthews.
	Sunday, 2 P. M. July 14th 1889, Pres J. P.
Lindsey presiding, among those who were
seated on the stand were Prest. Wm. Budge
and Bishops J. A. Hunt and R. Calder, Choir
sang "A message from on high." Opening
prayer by Bishop Calder. Choir sang "I know
that My Redeemer lives" &c. Sacrament was
then administered.
	The Statistical and Financial report was
then read by the Stake Secretary. Ready.
Lindsey spoke for a short time, touching upon
many subjects that were of interest to the
Latterday Saints. Dwelt for a short time on 
the subject of storing grain and looking after
the poor.
	Coun. E. Collings refered briefly to some few
items of interest to the Relief Society, and
closed her remarks by asking the blessings of
God upon all who were striving to keep his
commandments.
	John Bagley said it is only by the spirit of
God that we can be fed on such occasions as
these. It is necessary for a mother to under-
stand the Gospel in order that she may teach
it to her children. Refered to the two thous-
and young men spoken of in the Book of
Mormon who were taught certain principles by
their mothers, and if mothers fail to teach
their children correct principles they will be
held accountable.
	Amasa Rich said he had come to meeting to
be fed on spiritual food, spoke of the different
principles taught by those claiming to be
Christians in the world. But we are as
Latterday Saints known, we have the principles
of eternal truth and we should teach them to
our children. Those who go into the world to
teach the gospel should thoroughly understand
its principles. This should be a labor for
mothers, while their children are young to
teach them the principles of truth.
	E. M. Allred felt to rely upon the Spirit
of God to assist him when called to address a
congregation. Had been interested while
listening to remarks of those who had pre-
ceded him. Dwelt for a short time on various
subjects that were of interest to the people.
	Conference adjourned for six months. Sing-
ing by the choir.
		Benediction by Prest. Wm. Budge.
				L. M. RICH, Secretary.


