JUSTICE TO THE PEOPLE.

	The course taken and the haste made by Presi-
dent Harrison in removing from office Democrats
because of their politics and not on account of
any inefficiency or lack of duty, is considered by
men of large experience who are not partisans as
anything but laudable. It does not bespeak for
him the magnaminity of character that would be
expected in the Chief Executive of the nation
whose position gives him the power to show him-
self above petty distinctions and partisanship.
Executive and Judicial work is delayed and
weakened when able men are removed from
office who have become thoroughly acquainted
with their duties, and surroundings, and new men
appointed, novices perhaps, simply upon some
one’s recommendation or preference hundreds or
thousands of miles away, and who might have
a selfish or malicious object in view. That the
President is urged in this matter by prominent
and influential men of his party is true, but the
people of these United States of all parties ex-
pect better things of the President of this great
and free Republic.
	At the Republican Convention of Iowa recently
Hon. John M. Irwin Pres, of the Convention
made the remark. “The bounden duty of
Benjamin Harrison, by the grace of the Re-


publican party President of the United States is
to have none but Republicans on guard anywhere
and to have nowhere in this broad land any Dem-
ocrat in any official position high or low.”
	In the three states Ohio Pennsylvania and Iowa
this is the official representative action and
declaration. The man who stands at the head of
a great nation like this one is not the representa-
tive of a party alone but of a people, who expect
justice and equity and not a one sided adminis-
tration. If such rules are to be applied how can
the people be equal? we Americans talk a great
deal about freedom and equality, and the constitu-
tion of our country guarantees it, but there is a
a failure in the spirit and action of the thing
somewhere, and perhaps one solves the problem
in one way and one in another; but certainly
Pres. Harrison is not following out the pattern of
Our Father who sends the rain on the just and
on the unjust for they are all his children.
	According to our understanding Pres. Harrison
is the President of the people of the United
States, including all parties, and all classes and
women, as well as men, tho’ they are not supposed
to have any politics of any kind, and very few
rights or privileges, except to stay at home and
learn of their husbands if they have a home, and
what if they have not? why then to earn their
bread by the sweat of their brow the same as men
do with out the right to assert themselves; or en-
joy the equality in reference to remuneration for
their labor, that is given to men the country over.
	There will be an opportunity next winter when
the Woman Suffrage Convention is held in
Washington of ascertaining the views, opinions
and willingness of the President towards woman
suffrage or equal political rights for men and
woman, but judging from what has transpired, the
woman of the nation would have to bind them-
selves to vote the Republican ticket, if they ex-
pected his influence or support towards obtaining
unconditional suffrage.


