IN MEMORIAM

	Again we are called upon to chronicle the death of a
beloved sister and friend.	
	Sister Jane Hone Lee died at American Fork Aug 23rd
1889, of Pleurisy of the heart, aged 55 years and 8 months.
Sister Lee, with her family has lived at American Fork for
the last 27 years, and has been a teacher in the Relief
Society since its organization. She was a true wife and
mother, and a good friend, and, notwithstanding she had
been in delicate health for several years, she was very
diligent in the discharge of her duty, never missing her
meetings if she was able to be there; and always bore a
strong and faithful testimony to the truth of the gospel
and also to the gift of healing. She was cheerful under
all circumstances and though a great sufferer at times, she
never murmured at the providences of God, but had al-
ways a word of encouragement for others, and a reliance
on the Almighty that carried her through her afflictions
Her husband and family feel deeply their loss, as they
were fondly attached to her. The funeral was held at the
Meeting House and was largely attended. Several of
the Brethren spoke of the good character and devotion of
the departed, and also gave advice and consolation to the
family and friends.
	The following resolutions were unanimously adopted by
the Relief Society, that, whereas, the Lord has called
from our midst by the hand of death, our beloved Sister
Jane Hone Lee, therefore.
resolved, that we recognize in the death of our sister, the
loss of an able and efficient teacher in the Relief Society
of American Fork ward.
	Resolved, that we esteem her past, faithful labors and
great devotion to duty, as worthy the respect and emu-
lation of all.
	Resolved, that we deeply sympathize with the bereaved
husband and family in the loss of a kind wife and affection-
ate mother.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy be presented to the bereaved
family, and also one to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication.
			Committee.	EMMA FEATHERSTONE.
