EIGHTEENTH WARD SEMINARY.

     We acknowledge receipt of Circular of the
Latter-day Saints Seminary of the Eighteenth
Ward for the first Academic Year 1889--1890.
	It is very gratifying to know that this people
have practically awakened to the importance of
having schools wherein definite religious in-
struction is given, and special classes for that
purpose are organized in each department. The
idea of the Bible being excluded from the public
schools, may be American, as many arrogantly
proclaim, but it is not Godlike and will have a
tendency to produce a race of infidels.


We hail with joy the advent of Latter-day
Saint schools and colleges and feel that it is an
inspired movement which will result in great
good to the youth of Zion and in its interests at
home and abroad. The schools already es-
tablished where religious instruction has been
given have done and are still doing an excellent
work, and many other like institutions in different
parts of the Territory will ere long be in
operation.
	The school building in the 18th Ward which
was dedicated on the 30th of August last was
built by subscription for the very purpose to which
it will now be devoted. “The first term of this
seminary of learning began September 2nd and
will close November 8th.  The second term will
begin November 11, and end January 24.  Third
term will begin January 27, and end April 7th.
Fourth term will begin April 7th and close June
13th.  There will be a vacation from December
24 to January 2.”
	“There will be three departments namely: the
Primary Department, consisting of pupils of the
chart and first reader grades: the Preparatory
Department, consisting of pupils of the second
and third reader grades; and the Intemediate
Department consisting of pupils of the fourth and
fifth reader grades.  As stated special classes in
Theologv will be organized in each department.”
			DISCIPLINARY.
	“This Seminary is under the control of a Board
of Education, elected by rhe Board of Directors
of the 18th Ward Ecclesiastical Corporation.
They select the teachers and provide for the
necessities and general welfare of the school.
	The immediate government and disciplining of
the school rests with the teachers, who will main-
tain order, rather by including principles of
morality and self-respect, than by the infliction of
punishments.
	If a pupil indulges in persistent or wilful diso-
bedience to teachers, or is guilty of immoral or
disgraceful conduct, he will be suspended or ex-
pelled from the school in such a manner as is
decided by the judgment of the teachers, with the
approval of the Board.
	Absence or tardiness should be excused by a
note from the parent to the teacher stating
the cause.
	In case of withdrawal the Principal should be
notified at once, as the pupil’s name will remain
on the register until such report is made.
	A record of each pupil will be kept in such a
manner as to afford a full exhibit of his habits in
regard to attendance, punctuality, deportment and
and preparation of lessons, and at the end of
each term a report of the same will be sent to
the parent or guardian of the pupil.”
				REMARKS.
	The text-books used for the ordinary branches
will be the same as those adopted for the use of
the district schools.
	Parents should consult the teacher before
purchasing books or other school supplies for
their children.
	Parents or guardians will be held strictly re-
sponsible for any damage done to school property
by their children.
	For further information, address
				HORACE CUMMINGS, Principal.
					437 E. Second South St.
		or ROBERT PATRICK, Chairman of Board.
				163 B Street.


