GOOD ADVICE.

	As I sit and admire these our mountain homes
dearer to us than anything else on earth, I seem
to hear all nature proclaiming peace unto us all,
the low rustling breezes that come now and then
to fan us as we feel the effects of the glittering
rays of the sun, as we toil by the sweat of our
brows to earn bread; then the cool sparkling
streams from which we quench our thirst, whil’st
the birds twitter and sing above us in the leafy
branches.  All seem to whisper in harmony the
voice of peace and quietude, But hark! from afar
comes a sound as of low rolling thunders ’tis the
voice of Babylon.  She is coming, coming into
our very midst.  We all know how our parents
and grandsires came out of her that they might not
be partakers of her sins and iniquities, they left the
world and all its vanities and came to this once
wild desert, where naught but the wild beasts and
savage roamed.  Think with what zeal, strong
hearts, and willing hands, our patriotic fathers
labored to obtain that which was dearer to them
than life, even freedom.
	Behold! also the desert blooming as the rose
under their hard labors, the comfortable homes we
now enjoy, the many stately buildings, houses of
worship, school houses, and places of learning
where we can be taught to become useful men and
women, and honest citizens of this great country
which was once proclaimed to be “The land of the
free and the home of the brave.” But now we
find that the people of this great nation are fast
drawing themselves from that line, they have not
only taken the rights of citizenship from many of
our brethren but they have also disfranchised all
the women of this Territory without just cause so
that they do not enjoy that “perfect freedom and
perfect equality” with man that they should enjoy.
But still we can raise our voices and defend these
rights which a free people should enjoy, and we
can encourage others to strive to maintain that for
which they have struggled so hard.
	Shall we now because we enjoy the fruits of the
labors of the pioneers, stand idly by drifting hither
and thither we care not where, and see our rights
wrested from us by those who have come into our
midst with their smooth tongues and fine speeches


to allure us into their paths, to become as they
are many of them steeped in vice and sin, what
have they done for us, they have brought Babylon
with all her gorgeous displays into our midst and
laid her at our very doors to lead us from the
paths of virtue and honesty in which we have
been taught to tread by those to whom we are al-
ready indebted so much, shall we as I said before
stand idly by and see these things take their
course. I feel that we are all united in saying no;
although we as young sisters cannot as yet do 
much, many of us have true patriotic blood flow-
ing in our veins. Therefore let us arouse our-
selves and encourage the young men to go for,
ward in maintaining their rights and our rights
while we are not allowed to cast a ballot in vot-
ing for honest men, because we cannot afford to
have plotters and schemers to fill public positions
to draw us into their snares of immorality and
bondage as it were, although they appear very
frank and polite in their way. But still we know
we are on the safest side when we unite with those
who are of us, whom we know to be honest, truth-
loving men, men who will establish such rules,
and principles, as will tend to elevate us, and
place us on a higher platform; therefore brethren
we your sisters feel to sustain and encourage you
from our hearts and feel to say to you all go cast
your honest votes for the “People’s Party.”
				MISS MARY ANDERSEN.
	Huntsville, Utah.


