			MALAD STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Malad
Stake of Zion was held in Malad City on
August 18th commencing at 10, A. M. Pres.
Lucinda Hoskins Presiding. Pres. of Stake
Oliver C. Hoskins and Counselors and several
Members of the High Council were also on the
stand. Meeting opened by singing. "The
morning breaks." Prayer was offered by
Bishop George Stewart. Singing by the
Choir, minutes of last Conference and Stake
Report were read and approved. The Pres. of
the various branches gave verbal reports show-
ing a marked improvement among the sisters,
and a determination to go ahead and live their
religion and keep the commandments of God,
all the sisters had determined to look after the
wants of the poor and visit the sick and see
that they did not lack for the necessaries of
life. Several of the brethren and sisters bore
their testimony to the work of the Lord.
Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing,
Benediction by Counselor Wm. H. Gibbs.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting convened at
2 p. m. Pres. L. Hoskins presiding, after the
usual opening exercises Pres Oliver C. Hos-
kins addressed the Conference, felt happy to see
so many of the sisters assembled in this Con-
ference and to hear the reports from the differ-
ent Wards, exhorted the sisters to stand firm in
their religion and teach their sons and
daughters the principles of the Gospel and
teach them to be prayerful and to honor the
Preisthood and to live in the fear and admoni-
tion of the Lord, said he appreciated the work
of the Sisters knew that the Relief Societys was
doing a good work, gave many other timely in-
structions which were listened to with great
interest by all present. Counselor Wm. H.
Gibbs said he was pleased with the remarks of
the brethren and sisters during this Conference
spoke on the subject of education also the
proper rearing of our children, gave much
good advice and instruction to the sisters.
	Pres. Lucinda Hoskins felt to rejoice in the
instruction we had received during this Con-
ference spoke on several different subjects gave
much good instruction exhorted the sisters to
attend their meetings and be diligent in all
things pertaining to the Church and Kingdom
of God.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Guide us O Though Great Jehovah!"
Benediction was pronounced by Brother Jesse
Dredge.
			ELIZA A. HALL. Stake Sect.

