NOTES AND NEWS.

	The first use of a locomotive in this country
was in 1829.

	Miss Margarett Elliott Francis is editor of
The Trained Nurse, Buffalo, N. Y.

	The National Conference of Charities and
Corrections held its session in San Francisco.

	Miss Ottilie Thomas, stenographer and type-
writer, is said to be the only American girl in
charge of an exhibit at the Paris Exposition.

	Dr. Louise Fisk Bryson, a young physician
of New York, read a paper before the Social
Science Association on "The Dangerous Classes
and the Modern Doctor."

	Mrs. Annie Jenness-Miller will make an ex-
tended tour through the New England States
this fall in the interest of dress-reform—the
art of comfortable and artistic dressing.

	Mrs. Emma D. E. N. Southworth, the story-
writer, is now seventy-two years of age, and
although still bright and active, requires con-
stant attention, owing to defective eye-sight.

	Elizabeth Stuart Phelps-Ward has estab-
lished at Gloucester, Mass., a fisherman’s read-
ing-room, with newspapers and games.  She
has also founded several coffee-rooms at the point.
	
	Men have accused the women who are fear-
lessly demanding equal rights for their sex, of
every thing but one.  They have never accused
them of being weak-minded.—Mrs. Josephine
K. Henry in Southern Journal.

	Susan B. Anthony has written to Mayor
Grace of New York, suggesting that one of
the permanent buildings of the World's Fair
be set aside to women, for an exhibit of their
work.  "While the men of the country," she
says, "shall rear temples in honor of Colum-
bus, it will surely be most fitting for the
women to celebrate the virtues of Queen
Isabella."

	Miss Mary L. Seymour, editor of the Busi-
ness Women's Journal, advices women to wear
a dress with seven pockets.  Four of these are
in the vest, one for the watch, one for a pen-
cil, two for car-tickets and small change.
Under one of the panels on the right side is a
long pocket for the purse and handkerchief.
The pockets for memorandum-book and card-
case are tucked away in the drapery behind.
When Mrs. Seymour has another dress made,
she proposes to add an eighth pocket on the left
side for keys and miscellaneous belongings.

	In New Mexico a convention to form a State
Constitution met at Santa Fe on the 3d inst.
Before it had been in session a week the ques-
tion of woman suffrage came up upon numer-
ous petitions sent in by the women of the
Territory.  Several county conventions also
had passed resolutions in its favor.  On the
10th inst. a majority of the convention refused
to permit the incorporation of a woman suf-
frage clause in the elective franchise article.
The woman suffragists endeavored to delay
action, but an adverse report of the committee
was finally adopted.

	The Woman Suffrage Party's State Com-
mittee met at No. 52 University Place, Mr.
Hamilton Willcox presiding, Aug. 29, and
decided to hold its State Convention at Sara-
toga, Oct. 2 and 3.  Mrs. M. Louise Thomas,
the distinguished philanthropist and orator,
president of the Woman's Centenary Associa-
tion, and ex-president of Sorosis, was elected
president of the Committee instead of Dr.
Clemence S. Lozier, deceased Mrs. Thomas
accepted the post.  Geo.  Pellew, nephew of
John Jay, was chosen secretary, in place of
Charles K. Whipple, removed from the State.


