[Column Two]
older girls who had been Hepsie’s classmates 
at school, were meditating  matrimony,  and
thought more of making love, than of grammar
or mathematics; the child’s mind reached so far
beyond her years, she feared lest she might be-
come involved in some of the plots and schemes
these giddy school girls, thought daring and
romantic.  She scarcely saw her way clear to
remove her either, for there had been a sort of
understanding when Hepsie left the parsonage,
that she should return to attend the same school
the ensuing year.
	Sometimes fate opens the way when all our
planning seems of no avail, and so it proved in
this matter which to Mrs. Hathaway was a very
serious one.  “Mrs. Grovsener was ill,” the
news came in a letter from home while they
were still at the seashore; “the minister was in
despair;” much as Mrs. H. dreaded the effect
of the news upon Hepsie, she felt it was abso-
lutely her duty to tell her, all she had learned
about Mrs. Grovsener’s condition.  She did not
manifest the least sorrow herself, taking pains
to conceal her agitation; but Hepsie to her utter
astonishment recieved the message as though
she had known it beforehand; after a few
moments of thoughtfulness, she said as though
talking to herself, “that ends my life at the dear
old parsonage;” and immediately in a burst of
emotion her tears falling fast-—she ejaculated
between her sobs “I knew she couldn’t endure
it much longer, he has killed her by inches,”
then as though a new thought had arisen, she
remembered the minister’s utter dependence
upon his wife, and turning to her mother she
almost screamed in her excitement, “who’ll
help him with his sermons now?  The whole
congregation will find out how it was he could
preach such sermons: O, I knew it was because
a woman gave him her thoughts and polished
every sentence with her beautiful sentiments;
women do most of the polishing in this world
don't they?"  "It is scarcely proper for a little
child to judge one like him you do not know
all,” replied the mother, “besides Mrs.  Groves-
ner is not dead, only ill, and may soon recover,
let us hope so at least.” “But she will die I
knew I should never see her dear face again,
every one that I set my heart on dies; my dear
old grandpa, he was a man among men not at all
like the Rev. Mr. Grovsener” “I am glad you
have a standard of excellence to look up to in
mankind, but you have only spoken of two men
and in your opinion one of them is all good,
and the other all bad, that will not do, there is
no perfection on this earth, but most people
have more good than evil in their natures. How
strange it seems that you should set up a
standard at your age for ministers to live up to.
They are the ones to teach us the way of life
and salvation,” was the mother’s reply.
	“Mrs. Grovsener used to say to her husband
that he preached too much about eternal pun-
ishment, and too little about heaven; O I’ve
heard them discussing the sermons over and
over again, she wanted him to tell the people
about love, the love of God, and of the blessed
Savior; but he always wanted to have “strong
doctrine to give to poor sinners on the Sabbath
day” so he said. “I tell you mother she knew
as much about the Bible as he did, and a great
deal more about love, she often told me how
dearly her father loved her, and what a good
man, and true Christian he was; “not at all
like my husband,” she would say, and then
explain after “that he was more tender-hearted
than most men. He was a minister too, now


[Column 1]
I remember and it was arranged that she must
marry a minister though she was opposed to it, 
she told me so in confidence; and often when
we have been alone she has talked to me in 
such a way that I felt sure she had at some 
time in her life a real sweetheart;"
	Mrs. Hathaway allowed Hepsie to talk on 
about ministers, and love, and like topics on 
which her mind seemed to rest, thinking it
would keep her from grieving, and all the time 
she was learning more of the girl's real nature, 
though she knew perfectly well the story of 
Mrs. Grovsener's life, before and after marriage, 
and she did not wonder that her daughter put
this and that together, until she wove a pretty
little romance out of the life of her dear
friend. 
	Before many days another letter came, say-
ing Mrs. Grovsener had passed away; and as if
to confirm Hepsie's words it also stated that the
Rev. Erasmus Grovsener was so overcome with 
grief, that he would give up his position at N.
—and go away from his home, and all that re-
minded him of his "dearly beloved Deborah."
Hepsie mourned sincerely in a childish way, 
and bemoaned the necessity of leaving the
school and her particular friends to whom she
was so devotedly attached to go among
strangers again, for her mother who had already
thought the matter over informed her it would
be farther away than before. Hepsie was
partly prepared for the message that came, on
account of the presentiment she felt the morn-
ing she left the parsonage; and yet she had
tried to believe there was nothing in it. 
	At the seaside she had not made any new
friends, in fact they were not her style, the
little girls of her own age were not at all com-
panionable, and the older ones were occupied
with other matters than noticing children. In-
deed Mrs. H. herself did not care for the 
society of the fashionable people who as-
sembled there, she was altogether too, matter of
fact, and as soon as she felt Hepsie had some-
what recruited was only anxious to get away. 
The eldest daughter of the family had married
while Hepsie was at school and Mrs. H. in-
tended to entrust the child [---]
Mrs. Grovsener was gone, and meantime made
inquiries by letter what school advantages there
were in the town for Hepsie, and having re-
ceived word that there was a Select School for
young ladies, she felt satisfied it would be a
suitable place, and that the influence would be
favorable, as there would be less flirtation and
coquetting among the girls, although Mrs. H.
was not very well posted upon what had tran-
spired in this regard at the High school. In
New England in that day, Select Schools for
young ladies only, which included little girls
in short dresses, and which by the bye were
worn until they were fifteen years old, and
Young Ladies' Seminaries were considered the
most "proper" places for girls; colleges were 
not then open to young women, in fact it was
just about the advent of the woman's rights
period—and right here we might add that
Hepsie's mother was already tinged with the
ideas, that have since become so pronounced and
have produced such radical changes in matters
pertaining to women.
	Poor little Hepsie was very timid about go
ing to strage places, and she had never seen her
sister's husband, and indeed did not know any-
thing of the town which was a much larger one
and in another county, but her mother was 
quite imperative as to her going and she knew
perfectly well that it would be no use to at-
tempt to dissuade her when once she
made up her mind.
	Hepsie wrote letters to the girls of the
"Club" telling them that she was going to 
another school and that owing to the changes
at the Parsonage, she was not to return to N. 
at all, and bidding them a fond farewell such
as school girls 'love to linger over,' and promis-

[Column 2]
ing eternal fidelity she felt she was ready for
anything. She did not expect answers to these
letters, and in those days postal service was a 
very different affair to what it is now, they did 
not make railroad connections the mail went
by stage, and really Hepsie only knew of one
Railroad, and that line run from Boston to 
Albany. Mrs. H. did not like to take Hepsie
home at all, not even for a visit, but she saw
no other way, some needful preparation must
be made, and it was impossible for her to re-
main away from home any longer, and the
visit to the seaside had been prolonged for
Hepsie had begged for one more day until a 
week had elapsed and it was nearly time to 
commence the fall term of school. 
	Hannah (the married sister) was delighted at 
thought of Hepsie's coming, and could scarcely 
wait the time even though she was a young bride
just gone to housekeeping. Mrs. H. gave
Hannah strict instructions concerning her
little sister, telling her she had far outgrown in
ideas the viliage girls of her own age and how
important it would be to advise her in the
choice of books and companions, and impress
her with exalted ideas of what would be ex-
pected of her in the future. 
	The journey home was without any partic-
ular incident, and once there the busy mother
was involved in household duties, and Hepsie
had a grand opportunity to roam over the
hills and through the woods and fields, and
first of all she wended her way to the old
homestead, where she would sit for hours under
the sweeping boughs of the great elm trees
pondering on the past and dreaming of the
future; many were her childish fancies, and
girl-like some how a hero of her own ideal
creation was always intermingled with the
years to come. The house was occupied now
by cousins, three or four times removed, so
she had an opportunity to go in and out at
will, though neither her mother or any of the
family had crossed the threshold since the day 
of the old Major's funeral. The idea of pull-
ing down had been abandoned as it was only
valued as real estate. Hepsie unlike the others
[---] in an ideal realm, and clung with fond-
ness and tenacity to the old home and all its
attractions.  "Strange" her mother remarked
when she came to notice it, "she has so much
ideality that I am completely at a loss to know 
what to do with her, she cannot be dealt with
the same as the other children and I am puzzled
to know what course to pursue."  But Hepsie
meantime was catching butterflies and enjoy-
ing the summer hours and sunshine, and was 
happy in the very consciousness of living in
the beautiful world.


