[Vol48 | July 1961 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
[Literature — Nathaniel Hawthorne — The Scarlet Letter Briant S. Jacobs]

When, in 1882, Professor John Nichol of the University of Glasgow published in England the first significant evaluation of American literature, he defined The Scarlet Letter as "the most profound, the boldest, the most riveting analytical romance of our tongue, in our century." In 1957, in his book Hawthorne's Tragic Vision, Roy R. Male considered it "the most intensely moving and most beautifully composed work in American fiction." His opinion LESSON DEPARTMENT is substantiated by the appearance of dozens of critical books on Hawthorne in the past decade, as well as by the fact that, currently, eight publishing houses have paper-back editions of The Scarlet Letter in print, or more than twice the number for any other American book no longer protected by copyright. Hawthorne, Moral Symbolist Hawthorne's evaluation of Shakespeare might, with complete justice, be applied to his own best work, for it, too, contains "surface beneath surface, to an immeasurable depth." Just as in Hamlet, the novel's complex inter-relationship between its characters and the superbly contrived plot enable the dedicated reader to find new depths of wisdom and power within its pages each time he rereads them. As for the new reader, the magnetic power of the novel becomes manifest almost instantly and continues unabated to the end. While, in a sense, such power pleased Hawthorne, it also frightened him, particularly since the book, as finally written, was by no means the book he wanted to write. Even while carried along on the crest of his own rather mysterious creative energy, he strove to make the novel sunnier and less gloomy, but in vain. His next attempt to enliven its somber morbidity was the addition of The Custom House, an introductory chapter which gave vent to his own personal feelings about historic Salem and_ the evils of political patronage, but which, aside from sketching a plausible historic frame out of which the manuscript of the novel might have come, had little direct bearing on 483 the novel itself. In a final desperate attempt to protect the reader from its full impact, he decided to publish it serially in a magazine, but his publishers believed too strongly both in Hawthorne's gift and in The Scarlet Letter itself and, reluctantly, he agreed to its appearance in book form. So beautifully is The Scarlet Letter constructed, with every word contributing to make stronger Hawthorne's central intent, that those reading it for the first time "'just for the story," are from its first page swept onward toward an amplified realization of the moral theme: "Be true! Be true! Be true!" Hawthorne is concerned with the effects of mortal sins, not with any one sin in isolation, such as adultery, which had been committed long before the book begins. He is concerned with depicting the subtle inter-relating effects of sins, one strong effect having been caused by adultery, of which Pearl is the living symbol. His method is most effective when it is indirect, symbolic, paradoxical. It is through using such devices that the conflicting dual nature of man is given artistic embodiment. The Scarlet Letter The story of The Scarlet Letter is laid in mid-seventeenth-century Boston, a setting most compatible to Hawthorne's imagination, saturated as he was with years of reading in New England history, and well aware of his own identity within the dominating Puritan tradition. Though he carefully arranged his events to conform to a map of seventeenth-century Boston, used such historically veritable persons as Mistress Hibbens, Governor Belling- 484 ham, and Reverend Wilson as minor characters, and based the use of a scarlet letter as a form of punishment on an actual law to that effect passed in the Plymouth Colony in 1636, Hawthorne's real concern is morals rather than manners. The plot centers about the scaffold, where a series of tableaux are enacted, interspersed with significant dialogues and revelations of characters' thoughts and fears. First Hester appears on the scaffold to account to society for her crime and to defend her lover's identity. She recognizes in the audience, Chillingworth, her long-absent husband, supposedly lost at sea, and agrees to keep his identity secret. The next major event on the scaffold is "The Minister's Vigil." Tormented by Chillingworth's insinuating probings, Dimmesdale mounts the scaffold under cloak of night with intent to enact the proclamation of his true identity, which he dares not do in the daylight. When Hester and Pearl pass by on their way home from nursing an il] person, Arthur Dimmesdale asks them to stand by him on the scaffold, thus acknowledging his tie with them for the first time. Realizing his desperate need for her, Hester meets him in the forest and rouses him to strength and hope with the possibility of their running away to begin life anew. Liberated from his self-imposed duplicity and refreshed at the possibility of regaining some degree of personal integrity, Dimmesdale stays up all night writing his great election sermon. Yet, as he comes to himself, he realizes the futility of attempted escape, writes a new sermon, the most inspirational he has ever deRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1961 livered, after which he once more mounts the scaffold to declare his true relationship to Hester and Pearl. Dying in some degree of peace, with a clear conscience, Dimmesdale escapes the evil hold of Chillingworth as well as his own false illusion of being able to overcome concealed sin by running away from it. Within the year, Chillingworth dies, bequeathing a considerable amount of property to little Pearl, making her the richest heiress in the New World. Years later, Hester takes her daughter to Europe. Later, Pearl marries well and evidences appreciation for the struggle of her mother by the love and kindness Pearl bestows upon her. Sometime afterward, Hester returns to Puritan Salem, to spend her remaining years where she had fought and won her inward _ battle. In this novel few things or persons are as they appear; surface reality is not true reality. Such surface symbols as the scarlet letter itself, or the letter "A" seen in the heavens by Dimmesdale, do not have great significance. But when we witness Dimmesdale's interpreting the meteoric "A" as a sign sent to remind him of his own concealed adultery, we realize his self-concern and _ his isolation from the comforting companionship of either God or fellowhuman. The outward symbol achieves its power only when seen' within Dimmesdale. Likewise, the novel is justly named, not because of the letter itself, but because of the various, often conflicting, symbolic values given the letter at one time by different people who live in its presence. For example, when Hester first LESSON DEPARTMENT emerges from the aged prison to stand before the populace with her fatherless child in her arms and with the scarlet letter of shame on her breast, what does the letter symbolize? To Hester, as to all, it stands for acknowledged sin, a fact which she never denies nor asks others to forget. It also represents her love for Dimmesdale, an affirming force so strong and sustaining within her, in contrast to the uncongenial, somewhat forced relationship she had known with her selfish, intellectually proud scholar husband, that Hester wore the letter proudly. To Chillingworth it svmbolized not his domination of a lovely young girl so that she married him, even while he was fully aware that she did not love him, but that Hester had found someone whom she could love, whom he would detect and destroy out of jealousy and revenge. To Dimmesdale it symbolized a love formerly felt which had been replaced by his great love for the prestige and respect of the members of his congregation. This feeling was coupled with the consuming fear of the degrading shame and scorn with which he would be branded if ever Hester revealed his identity. To the Governor and the Reverend Wilson, the scarlet letter was an outward symbol of private sin which must be confessed publicly so that the welfare of the state and of Hester's soul would not be endangered. To some of the older, less confident wives in the market place, the scarlet letter represented a dangerous leniency, as they felt it should have been burned into Hester's flesh or else she should have been killed as a restraining example 485 on others who might be tempted to stray from virtue. 'To others nearer her own age and circumstance, this exquisitely wrought example of superb needlework had no real significance; to Hester, every thrust of the sharp needle in her finger as she fashioned it, had left its eternally unhealed wound on her heart. Which is the "true" reading of the symbol? Hawthorne, skilled craftsman in the techniques of ambiguity, never specifies which; he creates all the above possibilities, then leaves the reader to consider and evaluate them as he chooses. Nor is Hawthorne content merely to make the reader aware of the varied meanings the letter holds at any one moment; he further complicates it into more nearly resembling the complex relationships of actuality by showing how its symbolic meaning changes with the passing years. Little Pearl, "herself a symbol,' becomes both her mother's greatest curse and blessing, for alternately, she forces her mother to account for the letter as being good or evil; then, suddenly, she refuses to give Hester love or obedience until Hester replaces on her breast the removed symbol of her sin. Constantly her beloved Pearl asks Hester, "What the letter mean, Mother? — and why dost thou wear it? — and why does the minister keep his hand over his heart?" One moment Pearl stands apart from her mother, to pelt the familiar letter with sticks and leaves; the next moment she kisses it, even while rubbing off the unwelcome kisses of Reverend Dimmesdale, who never feels comfortable in her presence. For him, in his self-disparaging envy and weak hypocrisy, 486 Hester's letter has become a token of pride:. "Of penance I have had enough! Of penitence, there has been none! Else, I should long ago have thrown off these garments of mock holiness, and have shown myself to mankind as they will see me at the judgment-seat.