[Vol48 | July 1961 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Cannon]
[Work Meeting — Manners Matter Elaine Anderson Cannon]
terms  of  work  and  conduct.  ... 
— Selected 
THE  PRESERVATION  OF  HEALTH:  ...  to  prolong  human  life  is  one  of  the 
principles  taught  by  our  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  others  of  our  wise  men,  and  in 
order  to  do  so  one  must  obey  the  laws  of  nature,  the  higher  laws  taught  by  revelation 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Very  few  people  really  abide  by  the  regulations  they  know  to 
be  advantageous  to  life  and  health,  but  promise  themselves,  perchance,  bye  and  bye  .  .  . 
they  will  examine  their  own  accounts,  not  financially,  but  generally,  and  compare  them 
with  what  the  Lord  has  said  in  the  revelations  given  in  the  latter  days,  and  see  if  they 
compare  well  with  the  written  instructions,  and  take  care  of  the  bodies  given  them, 
and  seek  by  all  legitimate  means  to  preserve  their  health  and  strength,  that  they  may 
not  come  under  condemnation  for  not  taking  care  of  their  mortal  bodies. 
— Editorial 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  IN  SOUTH  SANPETE:  President  Alvira 
L.  Cox  made  opening  remarks,  reminded  the  sisters  ...  of  the  necessit}'  of  cultivating 
faith.  .  .  .  Sister  Julia  C.  Howe,  of  Salt  Lake  City  .  .  .  dwelt  on  the  importance  of  the 
mission  of  the  teachers.  .  .  .  Spoke  of  the  necessity  of  teachers  seeking  Divine  aid,  that 
their  words  might  be  words  of  wisdom.  .  .  . 
—A.  L.  C. 
Page  438

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
ly/TRS.  LOUISE  SEVIER  GID- 
^^  DINGS  CURREY,  of  Look- 
out Mountain,  Tennessee,  mother  of 
six  children  and  ''champion  of  all 
neglected  children/'  was  chosen 
American  Mother  of  the  Year  for 
1961,  at  the  Conference  of  Mothers 
in  New  York  City,  in  May.  Mrs. 
Currey  is  noted  for  her  efforts  to 
improve  juvenile  court  conditions, 
working  especially  for  the  separation 
of  neglected  and  dependent  chil- 
dren from  delinquents. 
lyr RS.  NETTIE  JANE  BARBER 
WILCOX,  seventy-nine,  of 
Kaysville,  is  Utah's  Mother  of  the 
Year  for  1961.  Left  a  widow  at  the 
age  of  thirty-seven,  she  reared  seven 
children,  of  whom  six  survive,  and 
also  two  grandsons.  They  are  intelli- 
gent, well  mannered  and  useful 
members  of  their  communities.  Her 
aim  was  to  build  character  in  her 
own  children  and  in  the  thousands 
of  young  people  who  ate  at  her 
famous  high-school  ''Beanery"  for 
twenty-seven  years,  where  they  en- 
joyed her  homemade  chili,  meat 
pies,  and  soup,  and  frequently 
sought  her  advice  as  a  bonus.  Active 
in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  Mrs.  Wilcox  is  also 
a  member  of  the  Daughters  of  the 
Utah  Pioneers.  She  is  noted  for 
her  beautiful  handiwork  and  for  her 
success  at  raising  flowers  and  plants. 
jyr RS.  REVA  BECK  BOSONE, 
formerly  a  judge  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  has  been  appointed  by  Presi- 
dent Kennedy  as  Judicial  Officer  of 
the  United  States  Post  Office  De- 
partment. Prior  to  the  appoint- 
ment, she  was  Legal  Counsel  for  the 
Safety  and  Compensation  Subcom- 
mittee of  the  House  Labor  Com- 
mittee. 
Lj^OUR  hundred  five  women  re- 
ceived M.D.  degrees  last  year, 
according  to  Dr.  F.  J.  L.  Blasingame, 
Executive  Vice-President  of  the 
American  Medical  Association.  He 
reported  that  there  are  now  more 
than  13,000  women  doctors  in  the 
United  States;  but  the  Association 
hopes  that  there  will  be  far  more 
women  doctors.  The  present  num- 
ber is  only  five  and  one-half  per 
cent  of  the  physicians  in  the  coun- 
try. 
lyjRS.  AMELIA  D.  EVERETT, 
Oakland,  California,  a  Latter- 
day  Saint,  has  recently  completed  a 
research  study  of  the  ship  Brooklyn, 
which  sailed  from  New  York  City, 
February  4,  1846,  for  San  Francisco, 
with  over  two  hundred  Latter-day 
Saints  aboard.  The  ship  passed 
through  the  Golden  Gate  July  31, 
1846.  Part  of  Mrs.  Everett's  schol- 
arly monograph  has  been  printed 
in  the  California  Historical  Society 
Quarterly. 
Page  439

EDITORIAL 
VOL.  48 
JULY  1961 
NO.  7 
cJne  iKipening  of  the   Viyfieat 
IVrOW,  in  July,  as  the  summer 
comes  to  its  fulfillment  and 
turns  toward  the  time  of  golden 
days,  many  wheat  fields  in  the 
Northern  Hemisphere  begin  to 
change  in  color  from  deep  green  to 
shades  of  living  gold.  All  beautiful, 
in  furrowed  lands,  the  wheat  fields 
ripple  on  the  plains,  in  the  wide  val- 
leys, and  along  the  shining  reaches 
of  those  acres  that  lie  between  the 
shadows  of  the  mountains  and  the 
vast  and  level  lowlands.  Watered  by 
recurrent  rain,  irrigated  by  silver 
furrows,  or  reclaimed  from  the  wil- 
derness, the  wheat  fields  lift  their 
spears  of  plenty. 
When  the  wind  ruffles  the  waves 
of  wheat,  there  seems  to  be  a  per- 
vading music  that  moves  in  a  har- 
mony of  sound.  For  wheat  is  an 
ancient  grain  which  has  provided 
food  for  many  people  and  many  na- 
tions. 
In  the  valleys  of  the  western 
mountains,  the  pioneers  turned  the 
sagebrush  sod  and  diverted  the  liv- 
ing water  to  their  early  fields.  And 
the  wheat  grew  tall  and  beautiful. 
In  those  arid  places  where  no 
streams  were  found,  the  dry  land 
wheat  flourished  as  an  answer  to 
need  and  work  and  prayer.  A  man 
looking  upon  a  field  of  yellow  wheat 
is  a  picture  long  treasured  by  those 
who  know  that  wheat  to  many  is  life 
and  bread  and  fulfillment.  A  woman 
gleaning  along  the  edge  of  a  field, 
gathering  golden  wheat  heads  into 
Page  440 
her  apron,  is  a  view  from  the  past 
to  be  remembered  as  long  as  chil- 
dren's hands  reach  for  bread,  as  long 
as  there  is  hunger  in  the  world. 
Of  special  significance  to  Relief 
Society  women  everywhere  is  the 
story  of  wheat,  its  gleaning  and  its 
saving  for  a  time  of  need  —  symbolic 
of  deeds  of  charity.  'The  granaries 
of  the  Lord  must  be  filled  to  over- 
flowing," the  pioneer  women  de- 
clared, and  with  the  strength  of 
their  faith,  they  gleaned  in  the  fields, 
their  purpose  as  beautiful  as  that 
which  motivated  Ruth  in  the  olden 
field  of  Boaz. 
Many  women  had  made  their  in- 
dividual gleanings  and  their  storage 
of  the  golden  grain  before  President 
Brigham  Young,  in  1876,  directed 
the  pioneer  women,  ''I  want  to  give 
you  a  mission  ...  I  want  you  to  save 
the  grain."  Bins  were  made,  gran- 
aries were  built,  barrels  were  filled 
with  grain.  The  women  raised 
wheat,  harvested  wheat,  and  stored 
the  grain  against  a  time  of  hunger. 
By  the  autumn  of  1877;  niore  than 
ten  thousand  bushels  had  been 
stored  —  and  that  was  only  the 
beginning.  In  the  years  that  fol- 
lowed, much  of  the  wheat  was  dis- 
tributed to  the  poor,  and  later,  dur- 
ing World  War  I,  Relief  Society 
wheat  was  sold  to  the  United  States 
Government.  Funds  from  the  Wheat 
Trust  still  provide  the  precious  grain 
against  a  day  of  need. 
It  is  in  harmony  with  a  heritage