[Vol16 | October 1929 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Emily Sophia Tanner Richards Alice L. Reynolds]
Emily Sophia Tanner Richards By Alice L. Reynolds
In the spring of 1918 it was my pleasure to accompany Mrs. Emily S. Richards to the city of St. Louis, where she was a delegate to the convention that celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of Wyoming's receiving its suffrage. It was soon evident, after our arrival, that Carrie Chapman Catt, Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, Rachel Foster Avery, and other suffrage leaders knew her well; they spoke of her as "our dear Mrs. Richards from Utah." This title she had earned through years of devotion to the cause. So familiar were the chief executives of our State with her record that from Governor Caleb West to Governor George H. Dern she was kept in mind and given appointments to conferences and congresses on behalf of philanthropic and progressive moves for women and children.
Emily S. Richards was the daughter of Nathan and Rachel Tanner. She inherited the lofty bearing and physical beauty so prevalent in her father's family. James Matthew Barrie has one of the characters of his play say, "If you have charm you don't need anything else." Mrs. Richards had personal charm. Good looks, cheerfulness, graciousness of manner, combined to make of her a lady to the manner born. I have never seen her when she was not cheerful and dignified. But Mrs. Richards had more, much more, than the personal and spiritual graces that go to make charm. Descended from a family noted for intellectual achievement, she had the type of mind that could distinguish a worthwhile cause, and the courage to ally herself with it. Another factor that has worked materially in assisting her to carry out the well defined purposes of her life has been her husband. Franklin S. Richards and Emily S. Richards stood side by side. They were lovers always; everything she said bore evidence of the fact that he was giving her not only the material support to carry on, but that encouragement which is often so necessary
 
to keep up the real drive of the soul. I saw her at the age of sixty-nine beam at the reception of his letters and telegrams as a young girl beams over letters from her first lover. Franklin S. Richards has always been a fitting companion for his wife. He has appreciated through the years her worth, and as we consider what their union and comradeship has been, it suggests in a number of ways the life of Alice Freeman Palmer and George Herbert Palmer of Harvard fame.
Mrs. Richards is descended, as is also her husband, from one of the prominent families of the Church. Father Nathan Tanner was a friend of the Prophet Joseph, as had been his father John Tanner before him. Nathan Tanner was with Joseph when the latter was taken by the mob to Carthage jail. He died at the age of ninety-five, a revered patriarch of the Church. Of him President Joseph F. Smith said: "Nathan Tanner's devotion to the Prophet would alone insure his eternal salvation." He and his wife Rachel became the parents of Emily Sophia, born the 13th of May, 1850.
Emily passed her childhood days in pioneer surroundings, which did not shut out God's sunlight and air. She loved the fields, the flowers, and responded in joyous manner to the beauty around her. She was six years of age when her father moved from South Cottonwood into Salt Lake City. This gave her an opportunity to attend the best schools that Salt Lake had at the time. She was proud with others to have been a student of Bartlett Tripp, a man of such outstanding culture that he became the first governor of South Dakota, one of the judges of the supreme court of that state and later served the nation as United States Minister to Austria. She was eighteen years of age when she became the wife of Franklin S. Richards. Their first home was in Ogden where three sons were born to them, Franklin Dewey, Joseph Tanner and William Snyder, two of whom have preceded her to the Great Beyond. Her family was augmented later by two daughters whom she adopted and on whom she bestowed much care. The daughters were named Wealthy Lucile and Emily Helen.
It would not be fair to this good woman to continue long a sketch of her life without taking into consideration her faith in God, in the Latter-day work, and her joy in the religious life. At the beginning she was connected with organizations of the Church, serving as president of the Retrenchment Association, as an officer in the Mutual Improvement Association, and in the Relief Society. Her husband's mother, Jane Snyder Richards, was conspicuous in the organization of the Relief Society; at one time they were both members of the General Board. Emily S. Richards served on the ed the Utah State Council of Women, standing at the head of the work when the battle came on. Fortunately for the cause, her political affiliations were the same as that of the Constitutional Convention. Her husband was one of the number and assisted in placing Suffrage into the Constitution of the State. It was not an easy task. I have often listened to her relate in glowing terms the story of the anxiety of the women as the opponents of the cause flooded the chamber with oratory meant to kill the movement; of the anxious night spent in sending telegrams to women all over the State, asking them to see to it that their representatives would stand flatly for the incorporation of a suffrage clause; for truly they feared lest some might falter.
