General Board of the Relief Society about thirty years, under three presidents?a period of time that is unusual for any one person to serve on a central board.
EMILY SOPHIA TANNER RICHARDS 523
In 1888 a congress was held in Washington which was known as the World's Congress of Representative Women. Women's organizations from all over the world were invited to participate. They had met to organize an International Council of Women. This meeting marked a very critical time in the lives of the Latter-day Saints. There was much prejudice afloat. Mrs. Richards, who represented the Relief Society, had been invited to make an address. Through an oversight her name did not appear on the program. A note was sent to Miss Anthony telling her of the situation. She went to the rear of the platform and conducted Mrs. Richards to the rostrum, thus dispelling any thought of an intentional omission. Mrs. Richards was listened to with great respect. It was one of the experiences of her life that made a very deep impression; it was also one of the decided achievements of her life.
Yet her extended service was not alone on the General Board of the Relief Society; she was a director of the Orphan's Home of Salt Lake for some forty years, and a charter member of the board of directors of the Sarah Daft Home from the time of its coming into being until a very recent period. Her influence and effort were felt in the selection of the present site and in the erection of the building in 1914. Those acquainted with her will understand why she was sought for in these public offices. She always assumed her share of the responsibility, often carried more than her load, and did not shrink from attending to any detail for the success of the work at hand.
She was in the vanguard when suffrage was written into the Constitution of the State of Utah, having been appointed chief organizer for Utah by the National Suffrage Association. She was also a member of the National Executive Committee. She organiz