[Vol16 | October 1929 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Editorial | Title: EditorialSocial Problems in Palestine]
10 EDITORIAL Social Problems in Palestine People in the civilized world will generally regret the outbreak in Palestine.

Aimed particularly at the Jews, it has caused the death and injury of many of that race.

All the modern science that can be brought to the aid of the Arabs, as well as all the appropriations for education given by the Zionists' organization, will be of small value unless something can be done to teach the people dwelling in that land to be tolerant one towards another.

The streets of most oriental cities are narrow; people who dwell in them cannot walk up and down without rubbing against each other; yet their ideas are as far apart as the north pole from the south pole.

Any one who has ever visited that country must be aware of these deep-seated antagonisms, A guide who was a Christian Arab, having been taught the religion of the 'Quaker by his father, had spent enough time in New York to learn the English language.

One morning, when his party was leaving Jerusalem to go to Nazareth, he apologized because he wore the fez or tarboosh, which is the prevalent style of hat in that country.

Turning to his party, he said, "I have a Panama hat that I brought from New York, and which I should very much like to wear on such a day as this; but if I went among the Arabs with it they would take me for a Jew and probably kil  me.

If I wear my tarboosh they will think I am Mohammedan, and that probably will protect my life." The people belonging to the Zionist movement have built a Jewish university on Mount Scopus, which is a part of the Mount of Olives.

When it was dedicated, April 1, 1925, the British government sent Lord Balfour, one of their most talented speakers, to make an address.

So bitter was the feeling of the Arabs towards him that he had to be taken to the coast under special guard to embark for home.; The Arabs hold their destiny in their hands.

If they are determined to stir up strife and massacre and kill the Jew, who has knowledge and material wealth that can be used to redeem the land and bring back in a measure its former glory, then the hour of their redemption will be delayed.

It is incumbent, also, upon the Jews to be tolerant to those who are at present living in that land and who, like themselves, are the children of Abraham.

It is of little avail for the Jews to seek the Wailing Wall and plead with the Lord for the re-establishment of their people as a nation in the Land of Promise if they are part and party to the stirring up of strife, and not willing to do everything in their power to bring about harmony and establish good will.

Another matter to be regretted is that the small body of Christians living in that country do not always use their good offices to maintain an attitude of good will between Arabs and Jews.

As followers of the meek and lowly Nazarene, they should be anxious to do all they can to induce the Arabs, with whom they have influence, to be law-abiding and tolerant, that the hour may not be far off when that land, which gave birth to the Savior, and in which he died that all men might be saved, shall cease to be a hiss and a by-word from the standpoint of modern progress and Christian ethics.

Vacation Camps in Idaho Miss Marion Hepworth has demonstrated her vision.

Vacation Camps in the State of Idaho have become a real institution.

There women gather and are brought into contact with an educational program suited to their particular needs.

To make this program possible, the most attractive vacation resorts in the State have been selected for the encampment, where women from five or six!

Counties assemble.

At the camps a three-fold program is carried on, emphasizing information, recreation, and inspiration.

The theme this summer has centered around the child.

Illustrative of the idea, on Tuesday, July 30, at Mack's Inn, Miss Marjorie Eastman gave a talk and demonstration on children's garments for health and play.

The recreation was under the EDITORIALS 533 leadership of Mrs. Eldon Sessions; the music, which has been featured at the camps for two sessions, was under the direction of Mr. T. R. Neilson of the Southern Branch of the University of Idaho.

On the first evening, Governor Baldridge of Idaho made an address, also David O. McKay of Salt Lake City.

The music deserves special mention; it was the best sort of demonstration of the theme Mr. Neilson was presenting, ?Music in the Home." It consisted of an all-Neilson quintette, the performers transferring with perfect ease from one instrument to another.

Mrs. Neilson is the accompanist, ordinarily two of the sons play the violin, while the father and the eldest son play the clarinet.

Sometimes they resolve themselves into a saxophone quartet consisting of father and three sons with the mother at the piano.

This orchestra accompanies the women as they sing, under Mr. Neilson's leadership, their State songs and the popular airs of America.

On these programs for two seasons the Relief Society has been represented.

Last season Miss Alice L. Reynolds of the General Board took part on the program at Fish Haven and Lava Hot Springs.

This summer the General Board of the Relief Society has been represented at four camps?Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter appeared on the program at Fish Haven and Lava Springs, and Miss Alice L. Reynolds at Starkey and Mack's Inn.

Miss Reynolds subject both years was Books that pay Interest and Reading for Children.

Mrs. Baxter spoke on Character Training in the Home, and The Poise of the Mother in the House.

The conception is unique, amply deserving the popular support that it is receiving.

Beyond question, it carries a message from the Agricultural College and University of Idaho into the homes of the State?the real purpose of an Extension Division.

Miss Marion Hepworth, State Home Demonstrator, with her assistants in the counties, is to be congratulated on the impressive program she has assembled, and the excellent piece of educational work she is putting over.
