Educational Items
Few educational leaders have been as much in the limelight during the past few weeks as has President Ray Lyman Wilbur, of Stanford University. People generally were loud in praise of his finished addresses at the National Education Association, for he is an orator of the first order. The effect of his addresses had not died away when news came that he had been elected president of the American Medical Association; also, he was one of the first doctors appealed to for consultation during the illness of the late President Warren G. Harding.
HARVARD'S VISION
A good many people who have had the privilege of visiting the Washington Elm, the old tree under which George Washington took command of the American armies, will feel sorry to learn that the tree is dead. Many school children have visited it in the past and there are many people in the United States who were looking forward to the opportunity of seeing the tree in the future. Much as we regret the fact that the tree is no longer living, we deeply rejoice that somebody connected with Harvard University had the vision, some forty years ago, to take a slip from its branches, plant it and care for it, so that it is now flourishing on the Harvard campus.


CHARLES W. ELLIOT RECEIVES MEDAL OF HONOR FROM CIVIC FORUM
The medal of the Civic Forum has been awarded in the past to Goethals, Edison, Bell and Hoover. These gentlemen belong to the scientists' group, consequently the teaching fraternity extends hearty congratulations to President Emeritus Charles W. Eliot, who is the first of its group to capture the medal.
Mrs. Dorothy Melissa Riggs Stewart, who was the first teacher in Provo, hired by a board of trustees, died July 12, 1923, at her home in Provo City.
From Dr. David Starr Jordan's address on "The University and Moral Teaching" delivered at the N. E. A. San Francisco, we select the following very significant paragraph. "The university has about four roads open to turn its youth to righteousness," said Dr. Jordan. "These roads are: the contagion of personality, the inspiration of intellect, the arousing of enthusiasm for intensive work, and the devotion to helpfulness towards others. As for the first, to turn our youth towards righteousness, we must show them how righteousness looks when it is lived; as to the second, a great teacher always leaves a great mark on every student with whom he comes into real contact; as to the third, great investigators breed investigators?there is an intellectual heredity among scholars as well as a physical one, as every serious worker recognizes. "The university can exert a tremendous influence for moral life, but only through the unflinching devotion of its members, and this influence must be exerted spontaneously, even unconsciously, by men alien to all forms of vulgarity and vice, and in thorough sympathy with the best in mind or morals in the idealism of youth."
Camilla Clara Mieth Cobb First Kindergarten Teacher in Utah Reinhard Maeser
"We look back upon the past and draw from it our heroes and our idols. And it is right that we should do so, insofar as these heroes and idols are worthy of our esteem and gratitude." Utah's educational history could not be accurately written unless there appeared upon its pages the name of Camilla C. Cobb, she who was our first Kindergarten teacher in this state. She came of parents whose lives were devoted to the education of
CAMILLA CLARA MIETH COBB 501
youth, her father being the presiding official of the leading school in the city of Dresden, Saxony, Germany. It was in this school that Dr. Karl G. Maeser taught, and it was the eldest daughter of this principal whom he married. Camilla early inclined toward the profession of teaching, and though only twelve years of age when she left Germany, she had already learned many of the ways and methods employed in the early training of the child. Her innate love for children and humanity is what made her the successful teacher that she was. It was in 1877, in a little room adjoining the chapel of President Brigham Young, situated just back of the Eagle Gate, that Mrs. Cobb began her work as Kindergarten teacher in Utah. She had taken lessons from an eminent teacher in New Jersey, some time before, and it was while studying in New Jersey that she was one day visited by Mr. John W. Young, who was so impressed with her superior ability in this work, that he at once suggested to her the need of her services in Utah. Upon her return to the territory, about a year later, she was at once employed to teach the children of Mr. Young, but he later generously opened the school for the admission of others. A letter, dated February of this year, and written by one of the boys, now a prominent Utahn, who attended her school, says: "To my mind, you have done more for the uplift of the child than any other woman I know; first, because you introduced real Kindergarten work into the state; second, you were associated at the head of the largest child organization in the Church?the Primary association; but these are not alone the reasons why I say you have done more than others; but because of your interest in every child whom you called by name." Camilla Clara Mieth Cobb was born in Dresden, Saxony, Germany, May 24, 1843. She was baptized in 1855, left Germany for America in 1856, with the Maeser family, arrived in Utah, September, 1860. She married James T. Cobb, and is the mother of six children, only three of whom are living. She lives at 208 Canyon Road, Salt Lake City. One would hardly suspect from her appearance, her lively, cheery manner that she had passed the eightieth mile-stone on life's journey. The letter already quoted from, further says: "You are one of the youngest ladies in the land. Your voice over the phone sounds like the voice of a girl of eighteen. Lift up your head and rejoice because of your great work, for thousands will bless your name forever."
Blame the Schools Frederic Allison Tupper
The worm will turn eventually. Even the frightened rabbit, when cornered, will kick, eventually. To all the amateur educational critics, to all the educational quacks and charlatans, whose chief stock in trade is unlimited, unthinking, and utterly unreasonable abuse of the public schools there will come an answer?eventually. So, why not now?
"F. C. Sears," so our contemporary, the Greenfield Gazette and Courier reports, "a professor at Massachusetts Agricultural College, at Amherst, who recently completed a four-years' term on the school committee, relieves his feelings in verse as follows:?
Is your child's digestion bad? Blame the schools! Is he sick, morose or sad? Blame the schools! Do your children learn to fight? Do they lie awake at night? Do they fail to do what's right? Blame the schools!
Do your boys smoke cigarettes? Blame the schools! Are your girls all suffragettes? Blame the schools! Do your children's shoes wear out? That's the school board's fault, no doubt! Are your children getting stout? Blame the schools!
Is the noon recess too short? Blame the schools! Do they need more time for sport? Blame the schools! Is the noon recess too long? Oh, that plan is surely wrong, They should spend the time in song! Blame the schools!
BLAME THE SCHOOLS 503
Is your child a nervous wreck? Blame the schools! Are there pimples on her neck? Blame the schools! Blame the schools for what they do And for what they don't do, too. They should seek advice from you! Blame the schools!
Are your children getting thin? Blame the schools! Do they choose the path of sin? Blame the schools! Do your children work too hard? Are they playing 'round your yard? Do they play the wicked card? Blame the schools!
Do your children's teeth decay? Blame the schools! For the tax you have to pay, Blame the schools! For the teachers they have hired And the ones that they have fired, Tell the board they make you tired! Blame the schools!
Is your daughter's eyesight bad? Blame the schools! Is your son a little cad? Blame the schools! Do your children learn to swear? Is there something in their hair? Is their trouble anywhere? Blame the schools!
If your daughters are too bold, Blame the schools! If the winters are too cold, Blame the schools! If you feel like being witty Here's a title for your ditty, "Damn that stupid school committee And the schools!"
?Springfield Republican.
Something to Think About By Heber J. Sears, M. D., Department of Hygiene and Preventive Medicine, University of Utah
Education is that training which results in physical, mental and moral health. Having these, with the Spirit of God, one has everything. Lacking these, one has nothing. All education should tend to fit us for the duties of life and increase our appreciation of the best there is in life. It should train hand, heart, and brain. Education is obtained out of school or college as much, and sometimes more than in school or college. The test of its value is: Does it equip for life and make life fuller and richer? We have made wonderful advancement in our educational system in the past half century. We are threading our way out of darkness into light, but there are three types of education which must be brought to the fore if we are ever to have a superior race. They are Health Education, Character Education, and Education for Parenthood. Within this magic circle lies our greatest hope. Without health we are unable to enjoy life, hence health-education is fundamental. Learn about history, geography and arithmetic if you have time, but learn to grasp the health ideal. Diseases are not cured by drugs and medicines, but by the establishment of a health ideal. We have bodies as well as minds. Without character a human is of less value than an animal. Health is important, but is it second to character. All our training of every description should ultimately tend to develop character. The heart as well as the head should have its full share of culture. Teach chemistry, mathematics, and physics if you have time, but teach men to be men and women to be women in every sense of the word. Parenthood is the real business of life. It embraces all the real duties, requires the best of health, demands a worthy character, and calls for the highest ideals. Yet of all the branches of training this one is most neglected. We trust too much to the guidance of instincts and desires?following the rainbow road. Study music, art, and literature if you have time, but study first how best to fulfil the sublimest function of all?parenthood. Every child has a right to be well born. A thorough training and a proper understanding of the obligations and responsibilities of parenthood would abolish poverty, disease and crime. The building of reform institutions is not striking at the root of the problem. To attempt to legislate people into good citizens is a travesty. To educate them sanely is our only hope.
The Vampire Anne Pike Greenwood
"Sausage again!" Jim lifted the dish mentioned, impatiently, scorning to help himself, but passing it to the hired man. "First bacon and then sausage, and then bacon and then sausage, with a hundred and twenty-five hens on the place. I should think with all your boasted knowledge of hens you could at least make them lay in the springtime." "You know, Jim," his wife spoke gently, "that the hens have had nothing but oats all winter and spring, and hardly enough to keep the breath of life in them. No matter how much knowledge I might have, I can't make them lay on that." "Maybe if you'd clean that filthy house out the hens might lay." "You know I can't leave the two babies to do that, with the chicken-house so far away." "You've got two boys here that can do it for you." "Not without my being with them." "Then they are as worthless as I thought them." He hesitated a moment, then decided to take a sausage. There were plenty of buckwheat cakes and potatoes. "I gave you those hens when we came on the farm because I thought you would do something with them, but you have proved your inefficiency there as elsewhere." His wife did not answer him nor raise her eyes from her baby's head. She was trying to ignore what was worse to her than bodily blows. Jimmy came into the room smiling so that he showed the vacancies where he had shed his two upper cuspids. "Mrs. Grow just said that now Vance's have their auto we will be the next to get one." His mother, sitting apart to nurse the baby, answered him with a smile, "We are not in the same class with the Vances, Jimmy." "I don't know what you mean," commented Jim roughly, not looking up from the magazine spread before him on the breakfast table. "Why I mean," said his wife still smiling, "that Vances have been here several years longer than we have, and they completely own their own farm." "They came here just two years before we did, and they were so poor that the neighbors had to feed them," contradicted


Jim with an ugly twist of his mouth. "But Mrs. Vance got out and rode the corrugator, and she has taken a hired man's place ever since she has been in Idaho." "She hasn't had any babies since she came here, and she didn't work outside last summer," she spoke defensively, the smile gone from her face. "Yes, she did. Last fall when you were in the hospital she cut clover all night." "For one night, perhaps." "For three nights, and she has taken a hired man's place every summer before. It depends on what kind of a wife a man has whether he succeeds on the farm." The words were spoken with vicious force, and the side glance he directed at his wife was a stab. She answered no more, but bent eyes, in which she was trying to conceal the tears, on her nursing baby's face. Having at length controlled their moisture, her gaze traveled about the tiny room where it rested, at first unconsciously, on the hired man's boots. They were slimy green, with fresh manure. A feeling of bitter revulsion swept over her. She glanced at Jim's feet. They were somewhat cleaner, but in the hollow of each shoe was manure. Her eye next caught the worn-out linoleum, littered with sagebrush scraps, their only fuel for heating and cooking. It was impossible to keep it off the floor. Although it was late May, a fire was burning in the room, and a chill wind rushed and roared around the house. Little Hal two and a-half, wriggled down from his highchair, and running to the baby began tugging at its little hand. "Don't do that, Hal," said the mother in an undertone. "Cool 'ittle hanny," said Hal, churning it up and down the baby protested with squeals. At that moment the veiled hostility which had been occupying nine-year old Jimmy and seven-year old Paul broke into open warfare, Paul protesting with a loud, "Jimmy, now, you leave me alone!" To which Jimmy responded, "I ain't doin' anything to you. You keep putting your foot on my chair!" "Well, you pinched me!" was Paul's rejoinder. Jim rose up in his chair, grabbed the two urchins by the collars, and bumped their heads together. "You two hyenas! It's plain to be seen that you are Grays. [That was their mother's maiden name.] But dod-gast your ornery hides, I'll take it out of you, if I have to kill you. Settle down there, now. Sit up and eat, or I'll break every bone in your bodies." He turned to his wife. "If you are not capable of controlling these children, I'll get someone who can manage them." Hal, somewhat abashed by the discipline of his brothers,
THE VAMPIRE 507
ceased pumping the baby's hand and regarded his father with doubtful eyes. Quiet settled in the room, broken only by Paul's sniffs as he rubbed his head. Jim looked up from his magazine and addressed the hired man: "Well, Tom, Uncle Sam didn't get you in this war, but if we have another war they'll take us all." The hired man crowded a pan-cake into his mouth by the simple expedient of folding it neatly several times, and then pitch-forking it into the open cavern of his face. While he was disposing of it he murmured semi-intelligibly, "If Uncle Sam ever wants to get me in any war he'll have to come after me, and he'll have a hard time if I see him fust. I'll fight my own battles, and let the gover'ment fight its. The gover'ment never done nothin' fer me, and I don't owe the gover'ment nothin' as I kin see. When John Rockefeller takes to sharin' up some of what he stole so that I kin git my hunk, maybe I'll help the gover'ment, but while this gover'ment lets fellers like him steal from us fellers, it can do its own killin'." "I see," said Jim, looking absently into his magazine, "You are a socialist." "Right you are. When the gover'ment does what I think it ought to, I'm willin' to help, but I ain't sheddin' my blood in no rich man's war." Jim was absorbed in his magazine while the hired man was speaking. His wife looked at him with flashing eyes. Why didn't he order the man from the table, A traitor even though the war was over, and even though they needed his help so badly! How strange it was that Jim could go on reading and not tell the man to take himself and his manury boots off the place. Yet she knew that Jim was sincerely patriotic. It was no excuse that the hired man did not know better. His' very ignorance should be rebuked by those who did know better. Jim rose from the table and turned to her. "I am going to turn a head of water down, and I don't want any more bellyaching. Over your garden not coming up for lack of water. Jimmy can see to it." His eye caught sight of Jimmy's worn shoes, which also bore traces of slimy green. ?You dod-gasted idiot!" he yelled, jerking the boy from his chair, "if I ever see such shoes on you again, I'll tune you up with a. Black-snake whip. Go clean 'em!" The mother would have liked to protest that the child's shoes were in no worse condition than Jim's own and the hired man's but with a dumb ache in her throat she kept still. When the door had closed on Jim, the mcther spoke, "Jimmy, I want you to go out and wait for the water to come down into the garden. When it comes, you can turn it in and begin irrigating, you do it so nicely, and Mama will come out as soon as possible." Jimmy thrust up his chin. "I ain't a-goin' to do it. You can 
 water your garden yourself. I'm goin' with Papa to spread manure." With a bang he was out of the front door. "Paul, you don't know how to irrigate, but you can watch for the water and let Mama know when it reaches the garden." "If I go out to the garden I'm a-goin' to irrigate or I won't watch for the water. I know how to do it just as well as Jimmy." "No, Paul, I don't want you to turn the water in; you can't manage it. But just run to the house and let Mama know." "T'm a-goin' to irrigate myself!" With this defiance Paul slammed the back door. Their mother was not angry with them. She sat the baby in his. Go-cart and gave little Hal some string with which to play. Her depression was too deep for anger. How could she feel even indignation at her little boys when the example of their father's treatment of her was before them all the time? She went upstairs to open the beds to air. Before a window she paused and looked out upon the farm. Jim and the hired man were spreading manure, though the wind was doing its best to discourage them. Jimmy was with them. As she looked out upon the eighty acres they had won from the sage-brush her heart swelled in rebellion. "Oh, you horrible farm! You cruel, cruel farm! Isn't it enough that you must take the best years of our lives in such hard, unremitting labor, that you must also take from me the love of my husband and boys? It is you who are doing it, for no one loved me more than they before we came to this terrible struggle with the frontier. I stood all this through the war because I looked upon myself as a soldier in the battle that the world was making for the right, and I would not be a slacker, no matter how my heart was breaking. There are hungry people now?starving people?but none of them are in a worse state of starvation than Iam. I cannot live under these conditions any longer. I cannot help another human soul until I know how to help myself out of this degradation into which the farm has sunk me." She burst into tears, her head pressed to her forearm, and just as suddenly she stopped and flung her head up. "I will not accept defeat. This vampire of a farm shall not suck my life dry and ruin my husband and children. There must be a way out, and I must find it." She had no heart for breakfast. Energetically she went about her work, her thoughts busier than her hands, while her cheeks burned with resolve.. She. Washed the dishes, mixed bread in the bread-mixer. ?Jim does love me, for no other farmer on the tract would think of buying his wife a bread-mixer or a cream thermometer or aluminum when they are as hard up as weare." Then she swept and mopped the house throughout, made beds, bathed the baby, baked pies, killed, picked and cleaned a chicken, dampened the clothes for ironing?she had THE VAMPIRE 509 been interrupted the night before, and unable to do it?got dinner, sat through it with a preoccupied air which no sarcasm on Jim's part could disturb, washed the dishes, put away such clothes as did not need ironing, and mended stockings and underwear, then ironed all afternoon, after which she got supper and washed the dishes. Then there was the mending of the ironed clothes after the children were undressed by her and put to bed. And all day long she had run out and set the water in the garden in spite of Paul's indignant protests, and had watched its progress throughout the day; also waiting on the baby at frequent intervals, and entertaining little Hal. It was hard to race back and forth from the garden to the house in the wind with the fear that Hal might do some damage during her absence. But it had to be done, for she would no longer venture asking either of the boys to do anything for her. Their insubordination was growing all the time, and she was not sure yet just how to deal with it. She preferred to do nothing until she did know. You women who have city conveniences, do you realize what it means to work all day and during that day pump innumerable buckets of water at a cistern some distance from the house, and carry them into your kitchen yourself? At supper time, from Jim's conversation with the hired man, she judged that he was going to take a trip to Twin Falls on the following day, and that. He would be gone for a week. He was too surly to volunteer any explanation to her, and she asked none. In the night the plan came to her. She had not slept till that moment. Relieved, she sank into slumber. She had thought that she was too tired to dream, but unhappiness kept the sub-conscious mind awake with its fears. She dreamed that out of the brown acres of the farm she saw emerge, instead of the expected crop, a beautiful, seductive vampire, and that she was witness to its drawing the life-blood from each of her loved ones, from Jim down to the tiny baby. She fought like a tigress, but to no avail, and at last she felt the hot lips pressed to her own throat, and she sank?sank?sank? "For mercy's sake what are you screaming about?" were Jim's words that woke her as she sat up rigid in the bed. "Oh!?it isn't true?it isn't true!" she gasped. Her throbbing heart gradually stilled, but she could not sleep again. Next morning she said, "May I go to town with you when you go to the train?" "What the deuce do you want in town?" She did not answer him nor look at him. "You know you could never be ready with all those kids in time." She knew that he meant it for a refusal, but she went to work 
 getting the children ready. When the team was hitched to the wagon she went out and climbed over the wheel to the wagon-bed, spread blankets, and seated herself and children. Jim'was in the barn. When he came out his look was one. To kill, but she ignored him completely. "If that woman is determined to go, we'll have to put the back seat in," he was addressing the hired man. So the back seat was put in and she took it without a word, telling Jimmy to get up beside her and put his arm around Hal while she held the baby. Paul remained in the bottom. They were just in time for the train. After it had pulled out she instructed the hired man to drive her to the town butcher-shop, At the shop she gave the baby, who was just waking from the long, lulling drive, to Jimmy and got out. She hoped there would be no one within, but there was one man who did not seem disposed to leave, so she was forced to speak before him. "Mr. Bickford, I want to dispose of a hundred hens. They are pure-bred Barred Rocks, and there aren't any finer chickens in Idaho, but I must sell at once. J have been selling them for a dollar and a half apiece, but I will sell them to you for fifty cents apiece if you will take them tomorrow. They are not fat, but they will make fine layers, with some feed." The butcher rubbed his bib with his fat hands meditatively. "Why, I'm awful sorry, Mrs. Appleton, but I ain't got nowhere could keep chickens. My wife's on a visit, and 1 wouldn't have time to take care of them. You say they ain't fat, so I couldn't ship them for I wouldn't get nothing for them. I'm awful sorry. If I hear of anyone that's looking for hens I'll be glad to put them next to you. Is there anything else I can do for you?" She ordered some boiling meat and as she was leaving, the other man in the shop stepped up to her. "My name's Wrench, I heard what you said about the chickens. I am just moving out on the Davy farm?perhaps you've heard. I think I would like your chickens. May I come out and take a look at them? I am coming that way?we don't live so far from you?and if it is all right I will go now. I am on horse-back. The roads are too bad for the car." When Mr. Wrench saw the hens he at once wrote her a check, and said he would come next day to get them. After supper Jimmy was dispatched with a note to a shack half a mile away. Then she began packing. "If the answer isn't favorable I shall have all summer to unpack, and if it is, I can be on my way at once." Before dark Jimmy returned, but not alone. He had gone on a pony, and two women came back beside him in a buggy. Daughter and mother they were, both homely, big-boned, capable, and smiling. "Well, my land, Mrs. Appleton!" said daughter, "of THE VAMPIRE 511 all the sudden people I ever heared about you are the suddenest!"' "It seems sudden, doesn't it?" smiled Mrs. Appleton. "I've been wanting to visit my folks for the whole six years that we have been here, and I can't stand it any longer." "You poor thing!" said mother, "haven't you seen your folks for six years?" "Longer than that. You know we spent three years in California. Do you think you can come and keep house for me until I get back?" They would never dream with what suspense she awaited their reply. "Well?what do you think, Lizzie? Can we do it? I?d hate awful to refuse, Mrs. Appleton. You've always been so neighborly to us." "You know there's the cows and chickens, Ma, but I could ride down and take care of them each day. We wouldn't try to set no milk for cream?just feed the milk to the pigs. Joe won't be back for a month, anyhow, and maybe longer. Why, yes, Ma, I guess we can do it." "If I don't get back when you want to leave, Jim can get some one else." It was a bold statement, and if they had but known, the first words of her proclamation of emancipation from the vampire. "You want to leave the two boys?" "Yes; I would love to take them, but I can't manage more than the two babies." Jimmy and Paul gazed in consternation at their mother. She was planning to leave them! She had been their willing slave; their adorer; their shield in time of trouble. And now she was going to desert them with as little compunction as she would leave the chickens. "Well," was Lizzie's comment, "sometimes it does boys good to have their mothers go. I know Joe never appreciated Ma tiil they had taken her to the hospital." "That's true," smiled Ma. "That's gospel true. I never could get him to water the garden when I was to home, but after they'd taken me away he watered it so much that he drowned it out!" Mother and daughter laughed together, while Mrs. Appleton, busy over her trunk, looked up to smile. Jimmy hung his head, and Paul wiggled about consciously. "When was you thinking of going?" "Tomorrow." Both boys looked shocked and seemed about to speak, but the presence of the two neighbor women over-awed them. When the women were gone, they set up such a wail that the mother heart had difficulty in hardening itself against them. She tucked them in bed with a quiet kiss, and firmly, but tenderly again assurred them that nothing could change her plans with regard to 
 them. They were to be left behind. Paul cried himself to sleep, while Jimmy sullenly covered his head with the covers, and kicked Paul occasionally, "for making that row." The next day Mr. Wrench came and got the chickens before Mrs, Appleton left. She kissed her' two boys tenderly, her heart aching for them, and the hired man drove her into town with her two babies. She knew the hired man was puzzled concerning her, 'but she did not care. A week later Jim came home. There is no word in the English language which exactly expresses his state of mind when he found his wife gone and the neighbor women in her place, and only twenty-five chickens left. There was no explanation from his wife except what the boys and the neighbor women could give him. It must be admitted that the neighbor women were somewhat surprised that he knew so little concerning his wife's plans, but when he observed this, he took pains to make it appear in his conversation with the boys that he had been long aware that his wife might go at any moment on account of her homesickness. Two days after Jim's return came a note to him: "Dear Jim:?You have always said that the chickens are mine, so I am sure that you will not think that I took anything to which I had no right when I sold some of my hens to Mr. Wrench. We have enough feed for the twenty-five that are left, and perhaps you will be able to get some eggs now. "Your Wife." That was all. Jim read the letter, and then he turned to Jimmy and said almost tenderly, "Well, Jim, so the old lady's left us. Paul began to sniffle. "I wish I'd minded Mama better; maybe she'd a-taken me with her." If Jimmy was thinking the same thing he said nothing, but he looked disconsolate. "Come on, boys; you can come with your Pappy. Mama's gone, but you've still got your old Dad." The boys next received a letter from their mother, and from then on a daily letter arrived for which they watched more and more eagerly. Jim read these letters aloud to Paul at the little fellow's request. It was three weeks after she had left that she received this note from Jim with check enclosed: "T did not know that you wanted to make a visit with your folks. If you had told me I might have made some arrangements so that you could have gone home right. I sold Bessie today for $200. I could have made another $100 on her by keeping her six months more, but I suppose you would rather have $200 for clothes now than $300 later. Take good care of the babies." THE VAMPIRE 513 Bessie was the colt he had raised himself, and with whom he had never expected to part. He loved her almost as much as he did one of the children. She wrote and thanked him for the check, and told of the purchases she had made with it, and her pleasure in them. She also sent one boy a set of dominoes and the other a checker-board and checkers. This brought a letter from Jimmy: "Dear Mama:?I am riting to thank you for the checkerbord and Paul says to thank you for the domanos. We wish you were home agen. Papa and I clened the henhnse yestaday and Paul tride to help. The hens are laing. Papa trayded some oats for some wheat screenings for them and that is why they are laing, Papa says. Papa told a man that came with the screenings that he is going to sell out; he don't like you to be on a farm it is to hard. We wish you would come home. Paul says to tell you that he doesn't try to erygate your garden any more; I watch the water and everything is growing fine. I wish you were here. ? "Your loving son, "Jimmy." At the end of. Six weeks Jim wrote asking her what she thought about selling the farm. He said that he now realized the injustice of all that had been put upon her, and that whereas he would like nothing better than to stay on the farm, if she wanted to leave he would gladly go. A note enclosed from Jimmy told how "Ma" and "Lizzie" had been forced to return to their shack because Joe had come back. Jim couldn't get anyone to take their place, so he was cooking for the boys, himself and the hired man. She knew how Jim would hate that. She wrote to Jim that he was not to consider her in any way with regard to the farm, but to suit himself whether he sold out or not. So far as she was concerned the only thing that she had against the farm was that the strain of hard work seemed to change people and make them less loving to each other. Through all her letters to Jim and the boys she never once intimated whether she had any intention of returning to the farm or not. She discussed neither their future nor her own. Her letters were cheerful, humorous, never giving one inkling of the home-sickness which she felt for them. She was banking all upon this experiment, and she dared not weaken. ~ The baby took sick and she neglected to write to any of them for almost a week. He had been in real danger, and when she wrote it was to tell them so, but also to reassure them. She knew it would take two days for her letter to reach them, and two days for a return reply if they answered immediately. On the morning of the fifth day she waited anxiously for the postman, and when a step came on the front porch she flung the door open expectantly. It was Jim. He smiled uncertainly at her. 
 She wanted to fly into his arms, but instead she said quietly, "Why, Jim!?come in." He entered the little vestibule, hat in hand, and set his satchel on the floor. "Mary," was all he could say, with his arms held out to her. Nothing on earth could keep her out of them then. Nor could she have restrained her tears. He raised her lips to his kiss and she saw that his own eyes were moist and his face white. "How thin you are!" she touched his cheek, yearning over him. "Why wouldn't I be, Mary??I've been in Hell. Mary, can you ever forgive me? I can't forgive myself. Are you coming back until I can get things settled to sell out, or would you rather wait here?" "T'm coming." It was only a few days later that she stood once again in that' upstairs room where she had wept so bitterly. Jim had come up to find another pair of overalls, and paused beside her, his arm around her waist, as she gazed out of the window. Billowy waves of green alfalfa were ruffled by the breeze, and' farther on were the wheat and oats. "It is beautiful,' she said. "I can get $150 an acre for it. Considering what we still owe on it that will give us a clean profit of $10,000. That is pretty good, Mary, for six years. We couldn't have saved that much in the city."" But his tone was not as animated as his words. She had never discussed the sale of the farm with him. Now she spoke, "No, Jim, we will not sell the farm. But we will try to get out of the farm all that it has taken out of us. This is the place to rear our children. It is the place for our old age. It is bound to be a success financially as soon as Idaho has better marketing facilities, and that will come. Whether it will be a success otherwise depends entirely upon ourselves." Jim lifted her lips to his, and she heard him singing happily in the yard as he harnessed a team to the hay-rack. She knew ? what her decision meant to him. She stood looking out upon the beautiful acres a long time. "You adorable vampire! You have taken all you are going to from me. I am not lulled into any false sense of security where you are concerned. But I have triumphed once and I shall triumph again. It may take a different method every time, but it is worth it. And I feel certain that the day will come when it will be settled for good whether our farm is to be a vampire or a ministering angel.