RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of respect adopted by the W. H.
P. R. Class in memory of Sister Rachel Ann
Gatherum, the beloved wife of John Gatherum
who was born in Heber City, Wasatch Co., May
29th 1865 and departed this life April 20th, 1896.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has called from
our midst one of our faithful members, we desire
to offer our sympathies and condolence to the hus-
band and friends of deceased, for she was a duti-
ful daughter, a devoted wife, and a loving
mother, ever seeking to implant faith and purity
in the hearts of her children.
	Resolved that we, the officers a[-]d members of
our association do recognize in her death the loss
of an energetic co-laborer, whose example was
ever worthy of emulation.
	Resolved that these resolutions be placed upon
the records of our association and a copy be sent
to the husband and family.

His home she enters there to be a light
Shining within when all without is night
A guardian angel o’er his life presiding
Doubling his pleasures and all his cares dividing.

Winning him back when mingling in the throng
From a vain world we love alas too long

[Column 3]
To fireside happiness and hours of ease
Blessed with that charm the certainty to please.

How oft her eyes read his, her gentle mind
To all his wishes all his thoughts inclined,
Still subject, ever on the watch to borrow
Mirth of his mirth, sorrow of his sorrow.

EMILY G. CLUFF, President.
SARAH L. DIXON, Coun.
DELIA I. BOOTH,
OLIVE BEAN,
H. A. KELLER.
}Committee.
["}Committee." is written to the left of the three lines above it]

	REBECCA HEATON NEBEKER, wife of Henry
Nebeker, and daughter of William and Frances
Heaton departed this life April 24, 1896, at Sigurd
Sevier Co, Utah. She was born Feb. 28, 1834, at
Little Orton, Yorkshire England. She joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in
her native land; emigrated to Utan in 1862. In
1865 she married Henry Nebeker at Payson, Utah
Co. One year later they were called to help set-
tle the Muddy Mission, where they remained un-
til the mission was broken up in 1870. In that
year they removed to Glenwood, Sevier Co. where
they remained four years. In that Ward she held
the office of Counselor to the President of the
Reliet Society.
	In the winter of 1874 she came to Sigurd form-
erly part of Vermillion Ward, where she has
since resided. She was chosen President of the
Relief Society of the Vermillion Ward Feb. 17,
1887, which position she filled with honor until
the division of the Ward in 1895. At that time
she was called to the presidency in the Sigurd
Society which position she held at the time of her
death. She had also been a Sunday School
teacher for many years, and was prominent in
public circles. Was ever ready to minister to the
poor and needy; had ever a comforting word for
the distressed. The cause of death was quick
consumption. She was the mother of seven
children, six of whom are still living. She had
eleven grand-children and one great-grand-child.
She died surrounded by her children, brother,
sisters and other relatives and leaves behind a
numerous host of friends to mourn her departure.
She died faithful to the Gospel and in the hope of
a glorious resurrection.
PAULINE LARSON DASTRUP.
Sigurd, Sevier Co. Utah. May 19, 1896.

	IN memory of Sister Ovilla Levitt Brown who
died April 20th 1896, aged sixty seven years one
month and nine days, and daughter of John and
Lucy Levitt, she was born in Habley Co. Sher-
brook Canada and removed with her parents
when nine years old to Kirtland Ohio. Married
Brother Philander Brown, Oct. 13, 1848, at Cam-
bray, Hillside Co. Michigan and was baptized at
Council Bluffs in 1858, by Elder William Folsom,
resided in Farmington, Davis Co., went to the
Muddy with her husband on a mission and moved
to Provo in 1873.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father
to take our beloved Sister to a higher sphere,
therefore be it,
	Resolved, that we her co-laborers members of
the Second Ward Relief Society of Provo cherish
her memory and emulate her virtues energy and
perseverance. She was a useful woman in the
community among her sisters in sickness, and
faithful and true in the higher order of marriage
and was of a kind and humane disposition.
	She was a teacher and appraiser in our Society
for many years, and a counselor for eight years in
the Primary Association when organized in 1878.
We sympathise with the family in their bereave-
ment and desire to express our condolence.
	Resolved that these resolutions be placed upon
the records of these Societies and published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
SARAH SCOTT, Prest.
SARAH GOODMAN, Coun.
M. A. TILL,
MARTHA HARRIS.
}Committee.
["}Committee." is written to the left of the four lines above it]


PHOEBE COUZINS is ill with inflammatory 
rheumatism at Los Angeles, Cal., and has
applied to the suffrage association for aid.
This association has no fund to help individ-
uals, but it is going to help Miss Couzins,
whose active career has been interesting in
showing woman's capacity for executive
office,—Ex,


