	ARTICLE I.—Name.
	THE name of this association shall be
"The Utah Kindergarten Association.”
	ARTICLE II.—Object.
	The object of this association shall be to
found and maintain Kindergarten schools
for the benefit of the children of Utah.
	Membership. 
	Section 1. Any person or persons recom-
mended by two members may become a
member of this Association by paying an
annual fee of fifty cents, and conforming to
the rules and regulations of the Associa-
tion.
	ARTICLE III.—Officers.
	The officers of this association shall be
composed of a board of thirty five directors
out of the number shall be elected
a president, two vice-presidents, a
recording secretary, an assistant recording
secretary, a corresponding secretary and a
treasurer. These officers shall be chosen
annually from their own number.
	ARTICLE IV. Duties of Officers.
	The president and officers herein named,
together with the board of directors shall
be authorized to transact all business per-
taining to the association and the schools.
	ARTICLE V. Special Duties.
	Section 1.—The president shall preside at
all meetings and shall have a voice in all
matters connected with the welfare of this
institution. In the absence of the president,
the vice president shall preside and perform
such duties as pertain to the office.
	Recording Secretary.
	Section 2.—The recording secretary or
her assistant shall keep a roll of the mem-
bers and call the same at each meeting re-
cording the presence or absence of each
member and shall also take the minutes of
each meeting, and an account of all money
received, which shall be submitted for cor-
rections or approval and duly recorded.
	Corresponding Secretary And Treasurer.
	Section 3.—It shall be the duty of the
corresponding secretary to conduct the cor-
respondence, of the association, under, the
direction of the president and perform such
other duties as pertain to the office.
	Section 4.—The treasurer shall have
charge of all funds of the association and
shall deposit in such bank as the directors
shall designate, and shall pay all indebted-
ness of the association by checks signed by
the treasurer; such bills having been pre-
viously approved by the board of directors.
	Visiting Schools.
	Section 5.—It shall be the duty of the
officers and directors of the association to
visit the schools that are established and to

[Column 2]
have an understanding of all general mat-
ters and give such encouragment as will
be beneficial and will tend to the strengthen-
ing of the work in hand.
	ARTICLE VI.—Advisory Board.
	There shall be an Advisory Board con-
sisting of women of experience to which
all general matters should be referred per-
taining to the interests of the association
and of the schools connected therewith.
	ARTICLE VII.—Meetings.
	There shall be a meeting of the officers
and board of directors, at which the
Advisory Board may also be present, once
every month at such time and place as
shall be decided upon by the members of
the board. Seven members shall constitute
a quorum for the transaction of business
and a majority vote of those present shall
carry.
	Section 1.—An Executive Committee
consisting of seven members shall be
appointed by the President, who shall meet
regularly every two weeks to transact
business and decide such matters as shall
come before them to be acted upon.
	Section 2. Special meetings of the
Board of Directors may be called at any
time by the President whenever she may
deem it necessary or expedient, or by three
members of the Board of Directors should
the circumstances require it, due notice
having been previously given to each mem-
ber by the corresponding secretary.
	Section 3.—There shall be an annual
meeting of the association for the purpose
of reporting the progress of the work which
has been accomplished, and for the election
of officers for the ensuing year, and for the
transaction of such other business as may
be brought before the association.
	ARTICLE VIII.—Amendments.
	These rules and regulations may be
amended;previous notice having been given
of such amendment in writing, to the
president, and presented at a regular meet-
ing of the board one week before.
	E. B. WELLS,
	DONETTA SMITH,
