“VOTE WISELY.”

	The political conditions of this country
at the present time are anything but
satisfactory. It is impossible to tell what a
day may bring forth, or what new scheme
may be developed by those who manipulate
the machinery of politics. New parties are
evidently in embryo, and old parties divid-
ing on new lines, or questions that have
arisen within the last few years or even
months. Disturbing elements are at work,
and whether the outcome bodes for good or
ill, one cannot well determine.  Every
man is asking his neighbor what the issues
are likely to produce, and in Utah at least,
men are wondering how the women of the
new state are going to vote, and women are
asking similar questions of men, who have
been voting always, and seemingly are as
much at sea on the live questions of the
time, as the women who have never yet cast
a vote.
	Certainly it behooves every man and wo-
man who can exert an influence or cast a
vote, to stand upon principle and maintain
the right according to conviction and one’s
conscience, and not depend upon one or
two ideas that seem especially important,but
take into account the entire subject and
situation as much as possible it does seem
without parallel that women have come in-
to possession of the privilege of equal suf-
frage at a time when the nation is in such a
state of doubt and uncertainty on such grave
problems as are now imminent, and the
solution of which no man knoweth.
	It seems a harbinger of good too that the
first votes of the women of this new State
should be cast for the highest official in the
Republic. Many men who have lived in
the West and helped to colonize, have
never yet voted for the President of the
United States. This seems an uncommon
privilege given to the women just entering
into this new ‘‘land of promise” so long
waited for and so tediously delayed. It is
a time when every vote should be cast, and
wisely, if one were only sure, but women
should not be too timid and lose their
opportunity; seek wisdom from the Lord,
and He has promised to all those who seek
Him that they shall know. It is im-
portant too that women should register
properly, and see to it that all those who
are not citizens, but who can become so by
being naturalized, take the correct steps neces-
sary that they may have the privilege accord-
ed them under the law of the grand new State.
	It is a matter of congratulation to both
men and women, and one we should be
grateful for and proud of, that on the day
celebrated by all patriotic Americans
the 4th of July 1896, the flag of our country
bore to the breeze the forty-fifth star for
the first time at the Nation’s capital, and on
all public buildings in that great City, as
well as other places, significant of the en-


larged freedom of the people who have
knocked so often and so long for admit-
tance into the great galaxy of States.
	It is a solemn time as well as a time of
extraordinary privilege, for one cannot
contemplate the condition of this nation
under the present outlook without feelings
of sadness, and only to those who trust in
God can there come the hope that is up-
lifting.


