	Who wear the yoke, that love makes light,
Who joyfully can celebrate
	Their marriage day, and count it bright;
But few are favor’d thus to see—
Its sixtieth anniversary.

Exactly, one decade ago,
	Upon your golden wedding day;
Your friends, a happy overflow,
	The old and young, the grave and gay
Met ’neath your sheltering roof—to share
The joy of that occasion rare.

Since then, a host of friends have died,
	And many strange events we’ve seen,
Unlooked for woes have multiplied,
	And life an uphill road has been,
And every one must needs confess,
All things are shaken, more or less.

Whether or no, ’tis so designed
	As Saints believe, and scoffers doubt,
Amid the general strife we find
	That something good, has been wrought out,
And Zion! Once “the trodden down”
	Is gaining favor and renown.

Now, unto Zion, are secured
	Great Rights, withheld, in days gone by—
No longer friendless and obscur’d,
	But like a "lily set on high” 
Or like a bright attractive star,
	Lo! Zion’s light, shines forth afar.

So visible to eyes unshut
	Is God’s own marvelous enterprise;
“The Stone” from out the mountain cut,
	Is rolling on and gaining size,
A Nucleus, gath’ring power apace,
	To fill the earth, and bless the race.

And you my friends, who from the first,
	Dared to espouse the cause of Truth?
Who many times have braved the worst,
	In Truth’s defense, are glad forsooth
To know that come, whatever, may—
	Established Truth, on earth will stay.

Especially you can rejoice,
	That sons and daughters ’round you throng.
That each and all with heart and voice,
	Are helping Zion’s cause along,
Truth’s representatives are they,
Who bear your honored name today.

Albeit, that you’re greatly blest
	Perchance, like other folk you’re tried,
Earth is not yet a place of rest,
	Nor are we all yet sanctified;
And trouble, bolder than before,
Walks in, at nearly every door.

Yet side by side, in woe or weal, 
	Linked hand and heart, along you go,
As happily united still,
	As in youth’s early morning glow
And may you hence enjoy—I pray—
