THE WORLD IN COMMOTION.

	THE world at large was never in greater
commotion than at the present time; even
although desolating wars are not raging so
extensively as at some periods, yet there
are wars of various kinds, of the elements
of earth and air, and of men’s unbridled
passions fearful and terrible calamities,
cyclones, floods, disasters by sea, and on
land, until the very atmosphere seems
freighted heavily with destructive forces of
many kinds. In view of all these things 
one is forced to contemplate causes, and to
look forward to results; to contrast that
which exists today with the history of the
past, and compare it with the outlook for
the future of the world. Verily knowledge
increaseth and wisdom hideth itself, for
“Knowledge is proud that he has learned so much
Wisdom is humble that he knows no more.”
	Looking at the events transpiring around
the world today, one must necessarily feel
that with all the boasted knowledge of this
century of civilization, the hidden paths of
wisdom are obscure, and only found by a
few, who look upward for light and search
after eternal truth, as the prophets of old
and who were despised and scoffed at, but
whose words were revered by later genera-
tions, and if one would profit by such les-
sons he must beseech the Lord in all
humility for guidance.
	The signs of the times warn those who
have studied the Scriptures and believe in
the fulfillment of prophecy not only that
“in the last days perilous times shall come”
but that such perilous times have already
come, and such wide spread destruction
that men’s hearts quake for fear, and it is a
vexation to read of these things, and how
much more so when they are where one
must needs see, and feel them. It certainly
does not seem to be a time of rejoicing,
when notwithstanding the efforts made by
philanthropists and reformers to create an
era of peace, the facts prove that “there is
no peace,” because of the wickedness that
stalks broadcast and must of necessity pro-
voke the vengeance of the Almighty, who
delights not in unrighteousness, and who
will not be mocked.
	The terrible cyclone in St. Louis, the
terrific tornadoes in Texas, in Ohio and in
Kansas, the disastrous fire in Philadelphia
which incurred loss of life as well as
property, the burning of Cripple Creek,
Colorado all these fatalities seem near
enough to strike home to the hearts of all
who are interested in current events. The


political disturbances which have been fer-
menting, and likely to culminate in the dis-
ruption of the old parties, one cannot help
deploring, even though Utah the new star
in the horizon of the Western empire may
remain secure and undisturbed; surely one
cannot help realizing she has come into her
proud estate on the eve of dangerous times
to the nation, of which her people have been
so proud. But the hopeful should look for
a happy outcome from this agitation and
commotion. The women of Utah who
have just come into their political rights,
should be calm and dignified in the midst
of the tumult of ideas and opinions, and ex-
ercise such prudence and caution in times of
disorder and confusion, as will entitle them
to respect at home and admiration from all
who desire to see order come out of chaos.


[Column 1]
