CONFERENCE OF THE N. A. W. S. A.

(Continued)
REMARKS BY MRS. ELECTA BULLOCK OF
UTAH. 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
	I am very glad the Chairman said some-
thing about applause. I am not a public
speaker and unless I hear a little enthusiasm
from the audience I do not believe I can say
a word. (Applause) It appears to me
that you are all asleep when we are hear-
ing the grandest sentiments that ever ema-
nated from anyone’s mouth. Mrs. Wells
says we must hurry she wants to hear
from those eminent speakers—so do we, so
I will just say a word or two—I don’t
want to leave out beautiful Utah County
which is considered the garden spot of the
Territory. I am proud of it and we have
a great many very good suffragists there
and they had occasion to display their true
colors in the late conflict in the Constitu-
tional Convention. In many instances
there were men that I thought I could stake
my life on their support and when we pre-
sented the petition to them to sign, some of
those leading gentlemen said in reply to
my remark that I would like to see their
names head the list, “O yes, we believe in
equal suffrage but you see it I should put
my name to that petition—why you see it
would defeat us.”There it was again,
willing to sell the liberty of one-half the
people of this Territory for Statehood.
(Applause.) That is the way we have been
treated. It was the old spirit but I am
very happy to say it is giving way to the
new conditions that surround us—I must
not forget I told Mrs. Wells I would only
say a word or two, but I cannot stop until
I say a word in regard to those honorable
delegates to the Constitutional Convention
from Utah County—they were earnest 
workers and I heard twelve of them were
united and they were heroes in our cause.
(Applause.) Although we have been en-
slaved so long and even at the risk of de-
feating statehood, such men as S. R. Thur-
man and F. S. Richards of this County and
others true to their party platform (Mrs.
Wells interrupting Mrs. Bullock. Excuse
me Mrs. Wells)—stood up and said “If we
can’t have Statehood without the liberty of
all the people we don’t want it” (applause)
I say that is true patriotism for you gentle- 
men and ladies—that is the kind of patriot-
ism that gained our independence. Thank-
ing you for your attention. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony:—Mrs. Wells, who is the 
General on this occasion says I must say
something, Now it seems to me in view of
what I feel that you all feel to be a fact that
there is no doubt with regard to the adop-
tion of the Constitution by a majority of
the electors of this Territory, and that after
it has been adopted by the votes that there
is no doubt whatever that Congress will ad-
mit the State into the Union, the Territory
into the Union as a State, it seems to me
that the one word that I want to say to you
is as if you were already a State, as if the
women of the State were already enfran-
chised. It seems to me that the work for
the women of Utah is exactly like that of
the women of Colorado and that is that they
shall commence the study of the great
principles that underlie our government—
the principles of civil government and the
principles of municipal government and
State and National governments, and that

[Column 2]
the objects and aims of our societies which
have hitherto been demanding and urging
the enfranchisement of your women, that
you shall make them now preparatory
schools or schools to prepare the women and
the men of your respective communities to
vote intelligently. This cannot be done
except by good and earnest study. Men
have not studied the principles of their
government. If they had they would have
enfranchised the women long ago, and if
the women had stood by the great work of
studying the laws and principles their de-
sires would have been accomplished long
ago. The men of today have not sufficient-
ly studied the rise and fall of the political
parties of this nation—a majority of the
men know nothing about the Constitution
of the State or of the nation or the work of
the women. Women should not only be
intelligent upon all questions of govern-
ment but they should educate their sons,
their brothers their fathers and their hus-
bands. They should invite them to their
meetings with them and together study
those questions. The introduction of wo-
men into government affairs will result in
higher intelligence among men as well as
among women. It seems to me the result
will not be at all what is intended if we do
not have greater intelligence everywhere.
	Now my good friends, it is supposed by
some that we are under pay from the
National Association. I want to disabuse
your minds—we are under pay from no-
body, we are, as the woman says, making
this trip free gratis and Mrs. Wells has as-
sumed all the financial responsibilities of
our stay here and of course the expenses
are not small. Utah has always done her
share towards helping to forward the cause
of woman. As I told you last night, five
states have passed a resolution submitting
the proposition to be voted upon not as a
part of the constitution as in your State, but
to be submitted as a separate measure.
When that question is submitted to the
people of this Territory every individual
man and woman must work, for it requires
immense educational work to reach out to
every one of the precincts of the State to
educate each individual to vote intelligently
(To the girls taking up the collection—
“Girls, don’t go too fast, give everybody a
chance to get their pocket books out.”)
	Now my friends, in regard to our Suf-
frage Association, we have thirty-six al-
ready organized, and at Atlanta last winter
there was proposed an organization Com-
mittee and the sum of $1800.00 was raised
right on the spot in order to carry the good
work into the various states. Utah for the
last twenty years has been one of the best
organized states. Utah and New York
have run a tilt as to which should be the
banner Suffrage Society in the nation.
Sometimes Utah has come with a much
larger delegation and New York has come
second, but I believe this year that New
York stands as the banner state of the
whole thirty-six as to the largest member-
ship. You know the rule is that you pay
into your State society twenty-five cents for
every local member and then your State
society sends ten cents out of every one of
those twenty-five cents to the treasurer of
your National Association so that is the
way we find out which State is the best or-
ganized, which state has the largest number
of members by the amount of money paid
in. New York this year sent in $165.00
to the treasurer that you know shows that

[Column 3] 
she has a membership of 1650 for which
the ten cents fund has been paid into the
National treasury. I forgot the exact
amount Utah sent [Mrs. Wells, $115.00 and
we have hundreds of women who have not
paid their dues] Mrs. Wells says  $115.00 and
there are hundreds and hundreds of women
in Utah this year and men too who have
not paid their little dues into the local
society, and when you do not pay into the
local society the State society is unable to
pay its ten cents to the National Society.
So you see when you join a local society
and pay your $1.00 membership fee which
I think is your membership fee, or 50 cents
or whatever it is, each man and each wo-
man that pays that membership fee into the
local society has contributed ten cents of what-
ever the amount may be towards helping
on with the good work. In sustaining
your local society you are sustaining
financially your State and National As-
sociation as well. That is what we all do.
We want to be one grand solid army from
one end of the nation to the other each
local society is auxiliary to the State society
and each State society is auxiliary to the
National Association, and in this way we
shall become solidly organized and when-
ever there is any great crisis coming in the
state or in the nation the women can band
themselves together to help carry the
measure if it is a good one or to defeat it if
the reverse. I do not believe that you wo-
men with the ballot in your hands will
make this purely partisan and vote for an
unworthy man because he is of that
political party, but on the other hand wo-
men will do in Utah as they have done in
Wyoming and Colorado and as they have
done in the State of Kansas in school elec-
tions that [---] hold themselves as a
combined power to vote for the best man
that is nominated, for the best party that is
in the field.


