Benediction by Sister L. D. Alder. 
		ANNIE T. HYDE, Sec. pro-tem.
		BOX ELDER REPORT.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake convened in the
first Ward meeting house on June the 9th
at 10 o’clock a. m. Singing, “The time is
nigh, the happy time.” Prayer by Sister
Annie Wixom. Singing, “Great God at-
tend while Zion sings.” Roll called,
minutes read and accepted.
	President Olivia Widerborg made a few
opening remarks.
	S. T. Booth, President First Ward, “I
have a desire to perform my duty if the
Lord will help me.
	President C. Peterson, Bear River City:
“We have peace and unity in our ward.”
	Hannah Harper, President North ward,
“We should try to overlook the failings of
each other.”
	Ella Watson, President Beaver Dam: “It
is my greatest aim to raise my children to
be good and honorable.
	Christine Jensen, President of Mantua:
“Our ways are not the Lord’s way, we are
trying in our weak ways to do the best we
can.”
	Harriet Hunsaker, President Honeyville:
“I feel there is a great and good work for
us all to perform.”
	Fanny Graehl; “I feel more able to ap-
preciate every day the blessings we enjoy.”
	Sister Bigler, Second Ward: “I pray the
Lord to bless us all, that we may under-
stand our position.
	Francis Young, Three Mile Creek; “We

[Column 2]
have experienced a sad calamity, our Presi-
dent has lost her home, almost.”
	Sister Loveland, Deweyville: “We are
but a small society but we are trying to do
our duty.”
	Emelia D. Madsen spoke on true charity.
	Sister Widerborg invited those from afar to
picnic prepared by the members of First
Ward.
	Singing, “Mid scenes of confusion.”
Benediction by Counselor Zella Reese.
	Afternoon session: Singing “What
wondrous things mine eyes behold.”
	Prayer by Bishop Hanson.  Singing,
“Great is Thy work, my God, my King.”
	President Mary Watkins, Fourth Ward,
hope we may always have a determina-
tion to serve God.”
	President Mary Jensen, Third Ward:
“I know this is the work of God, we
ought to be grateful that we are here, one
with this people.”
	Counselor Sister Robins, Snowville: “It
is quite a privilege for me to be here,” bore
a strong testimony.
	Sister Owens, Willard: “May the Lord
help us to set a good example for our
young people.”
	President Olivia Widerborg; “There is
nothing better than to try to serve God and
do His will. Let us try wherever we are
placed to live as Latter-day Saints.”
	Bishop Harper: “Jesus said ‘My sheep
hear my voice and follow me a stranger they
will not follow,’ ’’this applied as well to the
sisters as the brethren.
	Counselor Zella Reese: “I am grateful I
am so far preserved in the faith and still
have a desire to press onward.”
	Bishop McMaster: “It is not the wisdom
of man that has organized this Church in
its perfection. I think if any, carry out
the words of the Savior on the mount, it is
the Relief Society.
	Sister Lizzie Burt: “I always want to do
what I am called upon to do.
	President Rudger Clawson referred to the
three glories spoken of in Doctrine and
Covenants, our wishing to be there, will not
bring us there, referred to those who have
come up through great tribulation.
	Is it not a beautiful principle, if there is
any important move, you can go and
counsel with those who stand at the head.
	Singing, “Zion stands with hills sur-
rounded.” Benediction by Cecelia Nelson.
