	SOCIAL PURITY.
	FOLLOWING the address a paper on
“Social Purity” was read by Mrs. May P.
Moyle of the Cleofan. Mrs. Moyle treated
the subject exhaustively.
	“The subject upon which I am to address
you is one of such importance that it can-
not be over-estimated. It is a matter for
the deepest and most earnest consideration
of every member of this noble Republic of
ours, for it is the basis upon which must
rest the high civilization toward which we,
as a nation, think we are advancing. If we
consider the subject honestly and dispas-
sionately, we must agree with the writer
who says, that nothing but virtue and intel-
ligence can save a republic from ending in
despotism, corruption and anarchy. Our
most eminent sociologists have arrived at
the conclusion that whatever promotes the
health, happiness and personal welfare of
the greatest number, should be the care of
every individual member of a highly
civilized society. If this precept were car-
ried into practice, what a glory would be
our advancement. The golden ages of
Greece and Rome would be as nothing in
comparison, and Utopia would be a reality
instead of the beautiful dream that it is.
	Instead of seeing the realization of this
ideal, however, we are confronted by what?
A condition of society that in some respects
is simply appalling. We have here not
such object pictures as those living in the
great metropolitan centers of our country,
but what we do see, gives us a faint idea of
the conditions that exist elsewhere. One
of the greatest causes of social impurity is
poverty—bitter, grinding poverty. It
would seem that the first thing to be done
in order to purify society is to improve the
physical conditions of those who form the
lower classes in society. We can all help
in our small way toward the uplifting of
humanity, and I am sure we agree that
social purity should be the objective point
in all our strivings, and is the only basis
upon which can rest moral and physical ad-
vancement. Methinks that purity for the
individual, the family and the nation could
be the battle cry of victory, spreading a
light in the earth that would reach as far
as heaven.
	Parents are under the greatest obligation
to their children. They are born into the
world not of their own volition, and have a
right to expect moral surroundings, and
surroundings cannot be moral unless an
equal standard be maintained.
	Women and children have a right to demand
purity on the part of men. Man must rise
to woman’s standard before he can become
the great and noble being his Master in-
tended he should become. At the very
root of social impurity lies the inequality
forever destroying the source from whence
must come purity and advancement.”
	IS A NEW PARTY NEEDED?
	Miss Josephine Kellogg of the Nineteenth
Century club of Provo discussed the

[Column 2]
question, “Does the New Woman Need a
New Party?” Miss Kellogg reviewed in a
very exhaustive and interesting manner the
history of the leading political parties of the
country, and suggested that possibly the
new woman would need a new party and
might insist on having one. She read
Wordsworth’s beautiful poem, in which the
poet’s ideal of a beautiful woman is one
who at first sight is simply a dream of
romance, but finally develops a mind and
soul and becomes an immortal being.
	In concluding. Miss Kellogg said:
“What does such a woman need of a new
party? If she enjoys the same privileges
as man, she needs a chance for united work.
Is there a chance for either men or women
in the parties as they now exist, for a con-
certed effort on any of the issues of the
present day?”


