BY PHOEBE C. YOUNG.
	A PEOPLE of great natural gifts. They
have caught enough of the fire and in-
spiration of the liberty of the nineteenth
century to assert more independence; and
sometimes raise their voices against the
unremiting tyranny and oppression of the
Turkish government to which they are
subject.
	Perhaps they have found the more cour-
age to do this, because they had a right
under the treaty of Berlin to consider
themselves under the protection of the six
great European princes.
	But alas for them that put confidence in
princes; they have been doomed to disap-
pointment and left to suffer and die; for al-
though Great Britian through its embassy
at Constantinople and its consuls in the
interior have constantly remonstrated with

[Column 2]
the Sultan and sought to compel him to
bringing about a better state of affairs, they
have been met with the dogged accusations
and stubborn resistance of the Turks, and
received until lately very little support from
the other powers.
	Another reason for the great trouble ex-
isting is to be found in that great factor of
dissension in the world’s history; religious
fanaticism. The Sultan himself claiming to
be the spiritual as well as the temporal
head of the Mohammedan world; that is to
say a Calif. This has revived the old
spirit of hatred and intolerance between
Mussulmen and Christian and the Turk has
taken up his arms with his ancient motto
that all means are lawful for the extermina-
tion of the Christian. The life of a
Christian being considered of no more
worth than the life of a dog; which is in
their estimation a meritorious act to take.
 	This is an unequal fight. The Mussul-
men holding all the power. The Christians
so much fewer in numbers and almost en-
tirely without arms; arms being forbidden
by the Sultan to the Armenian population.
“The situation throughout the summer of
eighteen eighty four was one bordering
on anarchy,” from every section of the
country came word of the most outragous
treatment by the Turks and Kurds of the
Christian subjects.
	Laws were imposed that in the already
impoverished condition of the country were
simply ravenous and very bitter feeling
existed on every hand. In a detailed state-
ment sent to the English papers by the
Vienna Correspondent of the Daily News,
regarding the treatment of prisoners in
Central Asia Minor, the following state-
ment is made, “Hundreds of them were
cast into prison, stripped of their clothes and
tortured in the most diabolical manner:
women were outraged in the presence of
their husbands and fathers.” An Armenian
at Marsovar was flogged until his back was
raw flesh, to force him to sign a declaration
that certain Americans were plotting with
Armenians an insurrection.
	In the early years of the century the
residents of Constantinople had been ac-
customed to hear the most insulting refer-
ence made to their religion; but under the
influence of Abdul Medjid this diminished
greatly and as a consequence social relations
improved, but during the five years
previous to eighteen seventy four a marked
change was noticed everywhere and an in-
creasing lack of regard for the customs of
the Christians.
	Leading merchants were ordered to open
their shops on Sunday; if they refused they
were punished and told they were disobey-
ing the orders of the Sultan. The officers
would enter a Church during service and
demand anything they might want; and if
requested to wait its close, they would
draw their swords and order the preacher to
stop and most vilely abuse everything most
sacred pertaining to the religion of Christ.
“In viewing the situation we cannot but
receive the impression of a plan officially
laid to crush out the Christian population
to make room for a Moslem population.”


[Column 1]
	We are the more inclined to believe this
from the fact that the Greek villages suf-
fered only in a secondary measure while the
Christian population of Mesopotamia suf-
fered fully as much; and because the Priests
and women were the two noncombative
parties they have suffered the most, because
the Priest represented the detested religion,
he has not only been slain but mutilated
and the sign of the cross cut in his fore-
head by murderous swords; outrages worse
than death have been endured by helpless
women always preceded by the promise
that they would be spared if they would
abjure their faith. And in no instance have
they hesitated to face their double agony
rather than disclaim allegiance to their faith.
It is unnecessary to rehearse the ghastly
terrible and revoltiug details of the totally
unprovoked Massacre of Sassoun. Of the
barbarous cruelties inflicted on the men,
 and the more frightful tortures endured by
the women, in which they suffered a hun-
dred times worse than death through the
brutality and revolting lust of their merci-
less conquerers. We have read all these
horrors in the public prints till our brains
have turned giddy and our hearts faint,
until we are [-]eady to exclaim:
	“In what age do we live? Have we gone
back to the blackness of the dark ages?
Are all the horrors of the inquisition again
revived? Or is the Massacre of Saint
Bartholmew to be re-enacted with added 
horrors before the eyes of all Christendom?”
But no! We are mistaken; we are living
in the midst of the boasted civilization of
the nineteenth century and in the full blaze
of so called Gospel light; when Christian
Churches are striving to excel each other
in their efforts for the conversion of the
world. While millions of dollars are ex-
pended by Christian nations annually for
the spread of the principles of Christianity
which they profess to believe, and these
poor Armenians have a right to look for
protection in their social and relig[-]ous
rights, because they had conceived brighter
hopes for their future as a nation in conse-
quence of considering themselves through
the treaty of Berlin entitled to the protec-
tion of Great Britan and encouraged by the
sympathy shown them by Americans. But,
however, dark the picture there is still 
something left to brighten the scene.
	In the long and bloody annals of the
Sultan’s kingdom remarks a writer “Two
names breathe benediction. Florence
Nightingale, and Clara Barton the fairest 
flower of Armenian and English Christianity.
Women may well be grateful that their
sex has placed in the sky, where the
Crescent is fast fading into darkness, the 
two brightest stars of hope that shall glow in
history’s constellation. That eminent and
well known lady Frances E. Willard after 
reviewing the situation makes use of the
following scathing language which as it
embodies the sentiments of thousands of
Christian people I here transcribe: (she says) 
	“In the presence of such a spectacle as
this with the martydom of a nation, going 
forward under their eyes, the men of
Christendom have stood by and watched
their agonies have seen a crowd of Chris-
tian women shut up in a church and under-
going a night of outrage ending in murder,
the streams of blood flowing out under the
Church doors; they have stood by while Mos-
lem savages disembowelled Christian mothers
and brought into a world accursed,innocent
babies which were taken on the points of
bayonets and sportively tossed to and fro.

[Column 2]
They have passively beheld the massacre of
fifty thousand people in the slowly round-
ing circle of a year.
	This is the situation! Armenians are the
Nation; the Sultan and his soldiers are the
Devil’s scourge. The Anglo Saxon race is
the cold hearted spectator.”


