IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED at her home in Manti, of old age, on
March 4th, 1896.
	Emeline Whiting Cox. Deceased was the
daughter of Elisha Whiting and Sally Hewlitt
who were natives of Vermont, but removed to
Nelson, Portage Co. Ohio, in the early settlement
of that state where the subject of this sketch was
born July 23, 1817
	In 1835 she was married to Frederick Walter
Cox. Sometime after she and her husband em-
braced the Gospel and removed to Far West, Mo.
They endured all the persecutions, hardships and
privations to which the Saints were subjected dur-
ing their residence in that state.
	Brother Cox, being a man of great faith and

[Column 2]
marked ability, was frequently called to perform
missions in different parts of the United States,
consequently his wife was often left to care for
her little ones alone, but as she was a woman of
rare executive ability, and by nature specially
adapted to the care of children, she performed
these duties wisely and well.
	After being driven from Missouri, they settled
in Lima where they remained for nearly six years,
but were finally driven from their home which to-
gether with their stacks of grain out buildings
&c, were burned to the ground before their eyes,
leaving the family almost penniless but glad to
escape with their lives.
	They next settled in Nauvoo, but before a year
had passed were again compelled to move, this
time they took up their line of march towards the
setting sun.
	At the next halting place Mt. Pisgah, Sister
Cox had more than her full share of the sickness
and sorrow which seemed to be the portion of the
Saints during their soiourn at that place.
	Her beloved father and mother and two of her
own little daughters all within the space of a few
weeks followed each other to the grave and while
she was sick—indeed so low that her life was
despaired of, Br. Cox was making the coffins for
these little ones and bearing them in his own
arms to the grave.
	They afterwards removed to Council Bluffs—
where they were called to part with another
child, this time their infant boy.
	In the spring of 1852 Brother Cox and his
family crossed the Missouri River and began their
long wearisome journey across the plains.
	On the banks of the Platte River another little
daughter was born, who lived and prospered in
spite of the unfavorable circumstances attending
her advent.
	On the 4th of October 1852, Sister Cox once
more found a resting place in Manti, where she
has since resided ever helping in a heroic manner
to bear the hardships and burdens incident to a
pioneer life in a hostile Indian country.
	In the spring of 1863 Brother Cox was called to
take a mission to England, in August her last
child a little girl was born, and eighteen months
later Sister Cox was afflicted with a cancer, the
removal of which almost cost her, her life and
the following summer when the baby was two
years old she was called from earth thus adding
another grievous trial which was greatly aggra-
vated by the absence of the husband and father.
Sister Cox was an exemplary wife and mother a
faithful friend, and a conscientious Latter-day
Saint.
	She was a woman of intelligence, and refine-
ment, an agreeable companion with a keen sense
of humor and an inexhaustible fund of anecdote
and reminiscenses of her early life.
	She was the mother of twelve children—eight
of whom survive her—their respect and love for
her was unbounded and of her it can be truly
said “Her children rise up and call her blessed”—
and also that she has fought the good fight, has
kept the faith and has gone to receive the reward
which her long years of trial, toil and sacrifice
entitle her to; her remains were tenderly borne to
their last resting place by her grandsons who hold
her memory in grateful remembrance.
	After life’s fitful fever she sleeps well.
COM.

