IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED at Union Nov. 10th, ’96 after a lingering ill-
ness our beloved Sister Miriam Jones; she was a
faithful member of our Relief Society, as well as
being an active teacher for many years.
	She was charitable to the poor and beloved by
all who knew her. She leaves a loving husband
and three sons to mourn her loss besides a num-
ber of grand children.
	We desire to emulate her many virtues and
loving kindness to the needy: although through
failing health she was not able to meet with us
since our reorganization. We feel to appreciate
her labors in the past and desire a copy of these
resolutions placed on our record book and
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	Now she’s gone we’ll not recall her
		From a paradise of bliss
	(Where no evil can befall her)
		To a changing world like this
	Her loved name will never perish
		Nor her memory crown the dust
	For the Saints of God will cherish
		The remembrance of the just.
				MARY A. SMART, President.
				EMMA BURGON, Rec. Sec.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	For Sister Mary Ann Stevens, wife of Edward
Stevens deceased, who departed this life February
6th, A. D. 1896.
	Whereas, an all-wise providence has called
away from our midst to a higher sphere, our be-
loved sister and co-worker in Payson Relief
Society, be it
	Resolved that in the departure of our beloved
sister we have lost an able and efficient worker,
also
	Resolved that we cherish her memory from the
fact that God and her religion were higher in her
thoughts than any worldly aims; that we do
esteem her faithful labors and devotion to the
Gospel as worthy of emulation to every member
of our society, further
	Resolved that we sincerely sympathize with the
bereaved children and friends in the loss of a
loving mother, sincere friend and true Latter-day
Saint, again 
	Resolved that these resolutions be placed upon

[Column 2]
the records of the Second Ward, Payson Relief
Society; a copy sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
and one to her family, with these lines, appro-
priately selected,
	“Beautiful Toiler thy work all done
	Beautiful Soul into glory gone
	Beautiful life with its crowns now won,
		God giveth thee rest;
	Rest from all sorrows, watching and fears
	Rest from all possible sighing and tears
	Rest through all God’s endless years
		At home with the blest.”
	Resolutions of respect for Sister Sarah Brewer-
ton, wife of Charles Brewerton, who departed this
life April 28th, 1896.
	Since God in His infinite wisdom and mercy
has seen fit to remove to another sphere of action,
our respected and beloved sister Sarah, who held
many responsible positions in our Relief Society,
and was for many years a President of the
Primary Association; be it
	Resolved, that while we bow in humble sub-
mission to the will of ‘‘Him who doeth all things
well” we do recognize in her death the severe
loss of a faithful energetic and efficient teacher
and wise counselor in our Society; a true friend
to the needy a comforter in the hour of trouble,
a devoted wife, mother, and true Latter-day
Saint. We also recognize in her faithful labors
and devotion to the cause of Zion, an example
worthy of emulation of each member of our
society; further be it,
	Resolved, that we honor and cherish her
memory and many virtues, for peace and charity
covered her face as a mantle, cheerfulness beamed
from her countenance. We acknowledge the
hand of God in our loss, her charms endeared
her to us all, we shall miss her at our gatherings,
again,
	Resolved, that we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and family relatives with the
bright thought of a glorious meeting in the world
to come, over which sin and sorrow have no con-
trol—and yet,
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread up- 
on the records of the Relief Society of Payson
Second Ward, published in the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT and a copy presented the husband and
family, with these selected appropriate lines, 
	“It was so sudden, our white lips said
	How we shall miss her, the beautiful dead,
	Who’ll take the place of the precious one fled
			But God knows best;
	We know He watches the sparrows that fall
	Hears the sad cry of grieved hearts that call,
	Friends, husband, children, He loveth them all
			We can trust for the rest.”
				JANE TANNER, President.
SARAH FINLAYSON, 
ELIZABETH B. STARK,	{Committee, in be-
MILLIE STARK.				half of Relief
							Society.


