EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE poem by Lydia D. Alder entitled,
“Mormon Tabernacle Choir in California,”
“A story in verse” is a recital of the visit
of the choir to the Pacific Coast, and very
appropriately dedicated to Professor Evan
Stephens, their leader. It is a booklet of
sixteen pages, fine clear type and very good
paper. A colored paper cover tied
with ribbon, gives it the appearance of what
it really is, a souvenir of the Choir’s visit to
the land of the golden gate. The poem is
divided under several sub-headings THE
JOURNEY, SAN FRANCISCO, DEL MONTE,
MONTEREY, HOMEWARD. It is quite unique
in delineation and very smoothly written,
one or two quotations break the rhythm of
the composition, but these were necessary
to make it correct in detail. The choir
should acknowledge the merit of the work,
and each have a copy as it is a historical poem
of their entire trip, and will thus be pre-
served much better than a newspaper article.
The booklet is for sale at the office of the
Juvenile Instructor and at this office, 10 cts.
per copy.
	THE First Commencement Recital of the
Utah School of Elocution was held at the
Social Hall on Friday evening June 12, 1896.
The graduates were Rose Anna Cannon,
Salt Lake City, and Anna Elizabeth Spencer,
Draper. The opening musical exercise
violin and piano duet by Katharine Rom-
ney and Dorothy Cannon was very effective.
Miss R. A. Cannon’s rendering of the
“Monks Magnificat” a brilliant success.
“Molly” by Miss Spencer and “An Old
Sweetheart of Mine” by Miss Cannon, were
very pleasing; but that which gave the best
idea of their excellent work was “The
Apple of Life” by Miss Spencer and Ten-
nyson’s “Maud” by Miss Cannon. Other
selections were successfully rendered and
the entire program was well carried out;
that the young ladies were beautiful and the
stage artistically decorated and managed it
is needless to say. Miss Babcock made a-
few remarks and explanations at the close,
and in a very graceful manner gave the
finishing touch to the entertainment by
awarding the certificates.
	THE closing school exercises during the
month of June have been more than usually
interesting, and the public schools of the
City have been written up in the daily
papers elaborately. The schools in the
Country districts compare very favorably
with those in the City. In Farmer’s Ward
the average attainments were high, and the
exhibition given in the evening was cer-

[Column 2]
tainly worthy of mention. The operatta
chosen was “Red Ridinghood” and the
rendering reflected great credit upon both
teachers and children. The singing was
specially fine in some parts and  the little
“tots” carried out their part of the program
wonderfully well. The recitations were
very creditable, Master Geo. Q. Cannon
gave a Military poem, and Master Eugene
Sears “Life’s Game of Ball.” Mr. Short, Miss
Burnett, Miss Wade and other teachers
deserve great credit for their careful train-
ing of the little ones in their parts to bring
them out so successfully.
	THE article by W. S. Harwood in the
May number of the North American Re-
view is being quoted by the newspapers of the
day and commented upon, as against women
knowing their true positton and standing
according to the XIV amendment to the
Constitution. Now the facts are that wo-
men throughout the country knew how the
law stood and tested it to its full extent.
Miss Anthony tried the fourteenth amend-
ment thoroughly, even to imprisonment for
attempting to vote. The Supreme court of
the United States decided this point long
ago, and from that court there is no other
appeal. This subject has come up in every
Convention which has been held in Wash-
ington for a number of years, and it is very
amusing that one of the greatest magazines
in America should publish the article. As
to women’s votes being counted out when
voting for a President the fact has been
proven, and a precedent established when
the women voted in the state of Wyoming.


