SIXTY YEARS MARRIED.

	THE wedding anniversary of Brother and
Sister Nathan Tanner of Cotton Wood,
was celebrated at the elegant residence of
Mr. and Mrs. F. S. Richards in this City
June 30, 1896. Mrs. Richards, who is the
daughter of these aged veterans, had made
every preparation possible for the comfort
and happiness of her father and mother and
their special old-time friends and relatives
who were near enough to participate in the
happy occasion.
	The spacious parlors were, prettily
decorated and the dining room decorations
were very effective. It was a beautiful
day and the very season of the year for
flowers and fragrance, and the sweet per-
fume of roses and honey suckle with other
varieties of sweet-scented blossoms, lent a
delightful charm to the entertainment.
	Brother and Sister Tanner made a strik-
ing picture of themselves, both are fine
specimens of physical endurance; their
years have apparently set lightly upon
them, though they have passed through
many hardships, having been among the
early pioneers in the West in their younger
married life, and come to the Valley of
Salt Lake in 1847, and helped to colonize
here among the very first who settled these
barren vales.
	President George Q. Cannon and wife, Pres.
Lorenzo Snow and wife, and of the Quorum
of the Apostles Franklin D. Richards,
F. M. Lyman and his aged mother, who is
Brother Tanner’s sister, Patriarch Joseph
Horne and wife who so recently celebrated
their sixtieth wedding day, President
Angus M. Cannon and wife and Counselor
Joseph E. Taylor, Counselor C. W Pen-
rose and wife, Hon. John T. Caine and
wife, George Crismon, wife and daughter,
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Wyne-
gar, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Mr. and Mrs. James Brown and
others. The afternoon was spent in social
converse mostly reminiscences of the early
days in the Church. Brother Tanner is one
of the very few surviving members of the
famous Zion’s camp. There was some
excellent instrumental music by the young
people, and Miss Crismon sang very sweet-
ly some favorite selections which awakened
old memories.
	It is needless to speak of the banquet
given to the honored couple and the
assembled guests, including all the season’s
delicacies and a wedding cake proportion-
ately large and rich for the sixty years.


The evening entertainment was diver-
sified by a panorama of scenes and places
here and elsewhere mainly historical,
thrown upon the wall by means of a magic
lamp of some sort, and which was much
enjoyed by the company. The friends
showered congratulations and good wishes
upon the happy couple, who had already
passed three score years of life together.
May their prosperity and love grow strong-
er and purer as their days lengthen, and
their evening of life be full of the peace
that passeth understanding.


