	MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE died
at her home in Forest Street, Hartford,
Wednesday, July 1.
	Mrs. Stowe, the daughter of Lyman
Beecher, was born at Litchfield, Conn.,
June 15, 1811. At an early age she mani-
fested a great eagerness for books, and
read the prosy theological works of her
father’s library with eagerness. The early
years of her life were spent in the intellect-
ual atmosphere of Litchfield, which was a
famous resort for ministers, judges lawyers
and professional men of culture and educa-
tion. When about twelve years of age she
went to Hartford, where her sister, Cath-
erine, had opened a school. While here,
she was known as an absent-minded and
moody young lady, odd in manners and
habits, but a fine scholar exceling especi-
ally in composition writing. In 1832 she
went to Cincinnati, to which place her
father had removed, where they opened a
school. On Jan. 5, 1836, she married Rev.
Calvin Stowe. D. D , professor of Biblical
history in Lane Seminary, over which her
father presided.
 	During Mrs. Stowe’s intervals of leisure
amidst family cares, she contributed to the
periodicals, sketches and short stories but
apart from one or two Sunday school books
she attempted nothing of more importance
until 1850, when her husband having

[Column 2]
accepted the professorship of Natural and
Revealed Religion in Bowdoin College,
Brunswick, Me., she contributed to the
National Era, an anti-slavery paper, pub-
lished at Washington, “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,” as a serial. When the story was
completed, she long and vainly sought a
publisher for it, until a young Boston
publisher finally consented to bring it out
in 1852. It met with unequaled success,
313,000 copies were sold in the United
States within three years and a half, and
in all, over half a million copies, including
a German edition prepared there. In Great
Britain its sale was enormous. It was
translated into twenty different languages,
including Welsh, Russian, Armenian,
Arabic, Chinese and Japanese there were
fourteen different German and four different
French versions and it was dramatized in
various forms.
  	She subsequently published “A Peep
into Uncle Tom’s Cabin for Children”
(1853); and “The Christian Slave; a
Drama,” founded on “Uncle Tom’sCabin”
(1855). As some of the statements of fact
in the work were denied, Mrs. Stowe
published in 1853, “A Key to Uncle Tom’s 
Cabin,” giving the original facts and state-
ments on which it was based. She visited
Europe in 1853, and the results of her
observations were published in 1854, in
“Sunny Memories of Foreign Lands.”
A little work entitled “Geography For My
Children,” was published in 1855, and the
next year appeared her second anti-slavery
novel “Dred: a Tale of the Dismal
Swamp.” In her subsequent work Mrs.
Stowe often delineated the quaint old
domestic life of New England of fifty or a
hundred years ago.
 	In September, 1869, Mrs. Stowe con-
tributed to the Atlantic Monthly and to
Macmillans Magazine, as in some sort a
reply to Countess Guiccioli’s “Recollec-
tions of Lord Byron,” an article entitled
“The True Story of Lady Byron’s Life.”
This article evoked a storm of literary
criticism almost unprecedented, and the
tempest was by no means allayed by the
publication in 1870 of Mrs’ Stowe’s work,
entitled “Lady Byron Vindicated.” She
was also for some time one of the editors of
Hearth and Home and a frequent con-
tributor to the Atlantic, Independent and
other periodicals.
	A pleasant episode was the observance of
her seventieth birthday by a garden party,
given by the publishers of the Atlantic
Monthly. Governor Claflin tendered the
use of his extensive grounds at Newton, and
a large company of literary men and wo-
men were present.
 	In 1852 her husband was appointed to fill
the chair of Sacred Literature at Andover
(Mass.) Seminary, and she resided there
until 1864, when, owing to failing health,
he resigned and moved to Hartford, Conn.,
where he died Aug. 22, 1886.
 	Mrs. Stowe has since her husband’s
death, lived in Hartford, occasionally pass-
ing her winters in Florida, where she own-
ed an extensive orange grove.
	BOSTON Transcript-


