THE SPRING OF 1896.
WHEN it is evening, ye say: It will be fair weather
	For the sky is red,
And in the morning, it will be foul weather
	Today, for the sky is red and lowering.

March did not come in like a gentle lamb;
	And it left like a roaring lion;
But we expected storms for ’tis well known
	March is not a month to rely on,

But we thought perchance that April,
	The month for shine and showers,
Would gladden earth with warmth enough
	To bring forth waiting flowers.

But we never thought that May time
	Would bring us frost and snow;
For surely if we harvest
	We must have time to sow.

The sun has gone down in splendor,
	The morning brought forth rain,
The clouds have hung low in the morning,
	Ere night we had sunshine again.

The bow of the moon would hold the horn, 
	Yet sunshine has come with the rain;
So what e’er our faith in by-gone years
	We cannot trust the moon again.

The Snipe’s sad cry more rain, more rain
	Has been answered with Meadowlarks thrill;
And in spite of frost, hail and snow,
	The grass and wee blossoms still

Have been growing; and green is showing
	All through the furrowed field:
And yester the bow of promise
	Gave hope for a harvest yield.

We had better be up and doing;
	“Improve the shining hours”
If God wills that we must have rain
	We should work between the showers.
						M. E. T. Griffeth. 
Fairview, Idaho.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL. 
	PARIS, Oct. 13, 1895. A merry party
left Hotel Central for the depot, taking the
first class “Raapide” at 9 a. m. for
Marsailles, going via Dijon, Macon and
Lyons. The train was most comfortable
with conveniences such as we have at home,
but divided into compartments, our party
had two, we had our meals aboard, lunch
and dinner being excellent. We drank
mineral water which I did not like. We
passed some beautiful scenery and saw
many vineyards. Dijon is now the centre
of trade for the wines of Upper Burgundy.
Arrived just at nightfall at Lyons, the
capital of the department, of the Rhone,
situated on the tongue of land, inclosed
between the Rhone and the Saone. We
saw from the windows the lighted city,
the Church of Notre Dame de Tourvieres.
A square which we supposed was that of
Louis le Grand, and the quays along the
Rhone, the lamps were numerous so we
could see very well, and regretted not stop-
ping a day to visit the manufactories and
the Palais de Beaux Arts which contains
interesting Roman Antiquities. 
	At eleven p. m. we arrived at Marsailles
the city was “en fete” the scene very gay
the square was beautiful with lights, flowers
tropical plants and fruits, the people were
singing and laughing and serving refresh-
ments. The soldiers were preparing to sail
for Algiers, on the morrow, and seemed as
happy as if going on a pleasure trip.
	We drove to Grand Hotel de Noailles,
the entrance to court is beautiful with

[Column 2]
palms and potted plants, and as we always
find in France, the hotel is most comfortable
the beds and rooms delightfully clean; it is
a pleasure to rest in them. Much fatigued
we all retired. 
	Friday, 14th Oct. Directly after we had
finished our breakfast, Mr. Mc V. ordered
carriages and we drove about the city.
Marsailles, is an ancient city being founded
by the Phoceians 600 B. C., in S. France,
the capital of the department of the months
of the Rhone—on the Meditteranean, and 
on the east coast of the Gulf of Lyons, en-
closed by a succession of rocky hills extend-
ing in the form of a crescent, until each
extremity reaches the sea. The form of
the city is nearly square; it is surrounded by
walls and separated into the Old and New
town by “one of the finest streets in
Europe.” The Old town has mean and
dirty streets—the New, is beautiful and
much like Paris, the Hotel de Ville, is an
architectural beauty—the Ancient Cathedral
is Gothic and said to have been built on the
ruins of a temple of Diana. The public
library is large and there are cabinets of
natural history, botanical gardens, and an
observatory, the Arch erected by Nap. I.
is very beautiful and much like those of
Paris, the Water Castle and fountain is of
extreme beauty and must be seen to be ap-
preciated. Next we drove to the water, the
Port of Marsailles, is called a Salt Water
Lake, and is completely sheltered from all
winds. The entrance does not exceed a
hundred yards, being confined by two pro-
jecting rocks, one on each side; on which
are situated two forts—for its defence, it is
protected by other works and completely
surrounded by quays; in driving on the
street fronting the entrance our guide told
us, when the mistrel wind blows, 'twas
said a battalion of men standing two
abreast could not stand against it; from
here we had our first peep at the Meditter-
ranean, and a magnificent view of the Bay
and Islands—the water was beautifully
blue and not a puff of wind to tell us of the
“Mistral.” On the hill to the south of the
Harbor, is a place of pilgrimage, The
old church has been replaced by a modern
building, Byzantine style, on the facade is
a belfry one hundred and fifty feet high,
surmounted by a statue of the Virgin, one
hundred and forty steps leads to the lower
church, one hundred and seventy four to
the upper—the view repays one for the
climb—the view at the foot is magnificent. 
The Church of St. Victor is beautiful and
in front is a bronze statue “by Reams,”
of M. de Belyunce, in prayer. The
Marsailles good bishop, celebrated by
Pope,” who during the plague 1720 re-
mained performing the solemn duties of his
office. At noon we left this most interest-
ing city with a wish to see it again.
	Taking the train for Cannes the journey
was short and interesting, we had exquisite
bits of landscapes and the Islands and bits
of water views equally as beautiful—while
passing the stations there were pretty little 
flower gardens and well dressed people wait-
ing for the trains; the air was perfumed but
all was not clover—we saw many and
varied scenes, not so entrancing. Soon we
reached our station and climbing  into a
dillegance, we drove up, up the hill each
turn revealing more beautiful views of
villas, landscape, gardens, flower spread
banks, and the “Sea—reflecting the azure
of a matchless sky,” the party exhausted,
the adjectives, ere we reached, Hotel de

[stamped below the second column]
HISTORIAN'S OFFICE LIBRARY
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
23963

[Column 3]
Prince of Wales. When we smiled to hear
Mr. B. exclaim, “O, beautiful Dublin, you
are eclipsed by Cannes, with the roses, the
palms, the oranges and lemons the superb
views, the beautiful Bay, let us go home
Mollie while we can carry with us the
beauty of the scene, the fragrance of the
flowers and the music of the birds, it will
all be obliterated by musty tombs, when we
reach Rome.” The hotel was on the slope
of a hill, nestled in flowers and tropical
fruits, the palms the most perfect I ever
saw. Cannes is beautifully situated on the
Bay of the same name; from my window
the view of City and Bay was delightful,
we had perfect weather and flowers and
fruit in abundance; this is a great resort for 
invalids, but it seemed to me the perfume
was oppressive and it was too warm for
comfort. Many wealthy people have
beautiful residences here to avoid the rigors
of winter. 
	’Twas here Bonaparte landed on 1st of
March 1815, on his return from Elba. 
	The promenades are delightful, with the
orange palm, and pepper trees lining the
walk. 
	At night some musicians came and sang
delightfully among them, one song heard
iu Venice, “Jammo, Jammo, Ncoppa
Jammo, ja,” and is the one the Italians sing
as they ascend Mt. Vesuvius.
							KIM.


