AN INTERESTING TIME.

Editor Exponent:
	WITH pleasure I take my pen to chronicle
the pleasant happenings of the past few
days in sunny Dixie. Agreeable to promise


and expectation, our visiting sisters from
Salt Lake City made their appearance in due
season, and were heartily welcome.
	Thursday the 10th inst. was devoted to
a Primary Conference of this stake. Two
meetings were held, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.
A large number of children, ranging from
three to fifteen years, were gathered to-
gether looking very sweet and pretty in
their white dresses, and bright ribbons and
flowers. The exercises were conducted al-
most entirely by the children. Sister Lula 
Greene Richards, as the representative of
the Presidency of the Primary Association,.
ably sustained her position, assisted by the
earnest and zealous efforts of Sisters C. C.
R. Wells and Mary A. Freeze. The
conference was, altogether, satisfactory, and
profitable.
	Friday, June 10th, the Annual Confer- 
ence of the Y. L. M. I. Association con-   
vened at 10 a. m. under the Presidency of
Sister Rosenia Jarvis. Reports were made
by officers of various wards, indicating an
encouraging condition of their associations.
A paper, on the subject of “Love, Courtship
and Marriage” was read by its author, 
Sister Julia A. Macdonald of the St. George
M. I. A. The rest of the day was occupied
in a most impressive and profitable manner, 
by Sister Mary A. Freeze, representing the
general superintendency of M. I. A. work,
and her colleagues.
	On Saturday, the 12th inst. the regular
quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of this stake, convened in the Lyceum.
President Ann C. Woodbury presiding.
Reports of an encouraging nature were 
heard from all the ward officers present, al- 
so the last financial and statistical report.
Sister C. C. R. Wells ably acted her part as
the Vicegerent of Aunt Zina and her aids, 
giving much timely advice and encourage-
ment.
	Following directly on these meetings 
came our regular quarterly Stake Confer-
ence, at which the usual good spirit pre-
vailed. On Sunday evening, a conjoint
meeting of the two M. I. Associations and
the Sunday Schools, was called as usual, 
at which our sisters again raised their
voices in encouragement and exhortation to
the young people.
	Altogether, we feel that we have had a 
time of feasting and rejoicing, and only 
hope our visitors enjoyed it as much as we.
	One thing they will certainly remember, 
and that is the heat, which was unusually
oppressive during their stay. God speed
them on their way!
			JULIA A. MACDONALD. 
St. George, June 16th, 1896.


