BBAR LAKE STAKE.
	THE Bear Lake Stake Relief Socitey
convened in the St. Charles meeting house,
May 30th, 1896. Of the Stake presidency
there were Brother William L. Rich and
J. W. Stucki present. President Linsday
presided: after the usual opening exercises
and the roll was called. She made a few
opening remarks in which she said the ob-
ject of the conferences was to hear from the
presidents, the condition of their associa-
tion and also to be enabled to give such
counsel as our Heavenly Father and the
presiding sisters desired to impart, for the
mutual good and benefit of the sisters in
Zion. She trusted we might hear such
things as would cause us to return to our
homes with renewed energy and strength to
perform our duties.
	The following associations were then re-
ported as in good condition. 
	St. Charles was reported by President
Galloway. Fish Haven, President Howell;
Garden City, Counselor A. Cook; Wood-


ruff, President Sessions; Bloomington,
Counselor Patterson; Wardburra, President
Dalrymple; Dingle, Sister Jane Sparks;
Montpelier, Sister [-]. P. Linsday; Benning-
ton, President Vanorman, Georgetown,
Sister Bee; Thomas Fork, Counselor
Cook.
	Counselor L. M. Hart spoke of the duties
of the members of the Relief Society, urged
the sisters to gain a testimony of the truth
of the great work, for the time is coming
when those only who have this testimony
will be enabled to stand the trials that are
coming upon this people, spoke also of the
necessity of educating the young in the
principles of the Gospel. Brother J. W.
Stucki gave the sisters encouragment,
spoke of the aid they were to the Bishops
of the different wards, not only in caring for
the poor and sick, but in their willingness
to donate to all charitable purposes. Spoke
of the advantages of the young people,
much would be expected of the present
generation.
	An Organ Solo was then rendered by
Mr. A. Osband. President Laker of the
Primary spoke of the strong bond of friend-
ship that existed between the sisters who
were laboring together in the different as-
sociations. Meeting adjourned by singing
"Praise The Lord." Benediction Elder
Laker.
	At 2 p. m. The choir sang, "O Lord
our help." Prayer b[-] Brother J. Stucki
Singing, "My Lord the light of all my
Life." While the sacrament was ad-
ministered the choir sang sacramental hymn.
Several associations were then reported all
of which were doing a good work.
	President Lindsay was overjoyed to see
so many out considering the rainy weather
and very bad roads. She felt satisfied with
the improvement that was being made.
The Saints had much to be thankful for.
Spoke of the judgments of God that would
come upon the wicked; urged the Saints to
live in such a way that God would see fit to
preserve us from these judgments, said we
should awake to a sense of our duties, in-
voked the blessing of God upon all.
President Nancy Pugmire, of the Young
Ladies Associations felt that the remarks
that had been made were good and timely,
spoke at some length on the needs of do-
mestic economy, this is something that is
neglected too much in the homes of the
Latter day Saints. President W. L. Rich
endorsed the remarks of the previous
speakers, thought if the speakers depended
on inspiration they never sit down without
saying something that would be beneficial
to some one. The minutes of the meeting
were read and received, after which confer-
ence was adjourned by the choir singing an
anthem. ‘‘They that trust in the Lord.”
Benediction by President W. L. Rich.
