RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Adopted by the officers and members of the
Castle Dale Relief Society to the memory of
Sister Marie K. Sorensen Larsen who died very
sudden and entirely unexpected January 21, 1895.
She was born in Arnager, Bornhalm, Denmark
1838, and was among the first converts to
Mormonism there, She became acquainted with
Elder C. G. Larsen, now President of Emery
Stake, Utah, and was married to him in the
spring of 1857 and went through the hardships of
pioneer life in Sanpete County, and tried the same
in this County. In 1894, she in company with her
husband and rest of the family, performed
ordinances in the Manti Temple wherewith she
enjoyed great joy and received many blessings.
For several years she acted as first counselor in
the presidency of our Relief Society where she
made herself loved and respected by her kind,
calm and peaceful disposition.
	Be it therefore resolved, that as our Heavenly
Father in his wisdom has seen fit to call home
to a better life this our noble and faithful sister,
we herewith express our sincere sympathy for
the bereaved husband and her big flock of
children who more than before now can value her
worth as wife and mother, and in our society
work in this ward she will be missed by us all.
	Be it further resolved that these resolutions be
placed upon our society record and a copy of the
same be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Faithful through this troubled life,
	To her God and husband true,
A Saint as mother, a Saint as wife,
	A crown of glory is her due.

	DIED at her residence in Castle Dale Emery Co.
Utah, Nov. 18, 1895, Sister Annie E. Seely, wife
Justus Wellington Seely.
	Sister Seeley met her death by being thrown
from a vehicle while on her way to Orangeville.
The horses became fractious and the driver
Brother W. L. Cash unable to control them; they
ran away throwing both from the vehicle break-
ing Brother Cash’s foot and caused fatal injuries
to Sister Seely from which she died the same
evening. She leaves a husband and ten children
to mourn her loss. Sister Seely was one of the
pioneer women of this valley as also one who has
lived and labored among the Ute Indians in
Thistle Valley making many friends among those
natives of America. For many years past she
has been a faithful member of the Relief Society
of Castle Dale as also first counselor in the Y. L.
M. I. Association. Has also offiiciated as the
President of the Primary Association of this
place and at the time of her death was an officer
in the Woman Suffrage Association. In all these
callings she perfermed a good work and has ever
been gentle and kind to all.
	Therefore be it resolved that we the members
of the Relief Society of Castle Dale do
sympathise with her bereaved husband and
family.
	Resolved that this obituary be placed upon the
records of the society and a copy be sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
MARIE OLSEN, President.
NATHALIE ANDERSEN, Sec.
Castle Dale Emery Co. Utah, May 1896


