LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

	Saturday, 16th, Nov. 1895.—Arrived in
time for Table d’ hotel, at Nice, Hotel
Westminister on the promenade des
Anglais, facing the Sea, with an
“Ascenseur” (elevator.) If anything ever
tried my nerves, it was the “Ascenseur.”
You step in, sit down, in front there is
nothing to keep you from falling headlong,
they touch a button and up you go.
	Where will we land exclaimed Mrs. C—
when for the first time we went sailing up
to the sixth floor. Doubtful—and I felt
weak. Nice the largest and gayest town
on the “Riviera,’’ formerly of the Sardinian
States; but ceded to France with Savoy,
by the King of Sardinia, in 1859, for Mili-
tary services against Austria, is situated on
the mouth of the river Paglion, on the
Mediterranean, is surrounded with a ram-
part and divided into the Old and New
town, the former with crowded and narrow
streets, the latter straight and regular.

[Column 2]
We walked about the town looked into
the jewelry stores, the gems were real,
we did the winter garden and finding there
would be no concert, made them give us
back our money. Mr. Mc V. said perhaps
you think that is gall, but we paid for a
concert advertised outside. The garden is
a beautiful place with reading rooms, where
you are requested not to talk, then you
walk into the grounds, under cover, where
you chat and listen to music.
	The bathing pavilion is something like
that at Saltair, not nearly so large,
nor does it extend out into the
the water so far. We saw gaily dressed
people all along the promenades, it re-
minded me of Cony Island.
	The gardens are just as beautiful as at
Cannes, even the green hedges are covered
with flowers—we saw the blue plumbago,
yellow acacia, white jasmine and climbing
roses, with heliotrope and scarlet geranium
all over the hedges, and the walls at the
Villas and Hotels, were covered with a
framework of foliage and flowers. The
evening was warm, the perfume delightful,
I opened my window and watched the
people pass, until the swish of the waves
made me sleepy, early in the morning, was
awakened by the Fishermen drawing in
their seine.
	At noon we left, with pleasant recollec-
tions of Nice, after leaving the station, a
curve in the road gave us a splendid view of
the ramparts and that part of the city seen
in pictures.
	The journey to Monaco was short, it is
difficult to recall all the various and charm-
ing villas, landscapes, castles and Islands
and most interesting old manesteries, all
along the journey we have the Sea to our
right—to the left the Thames—and in the
background the Alps. While the gardens
contain olive, lemon, orange and magnolia
trees and do not become monotonous as they
differ according to the ideas of the landscape
gardener.
	All too soon we arrive at the capital
town of Monaco—it stands on a rocky
promontory in the Mediterranean, eight
miles from Nice, it was fortified at the time 
of Louis XIV.
	Monaco, is a small principality of Italy— 
between the province of Nice and Genoa,
governed by a prince. Everywhere are
pleasant rambles, our object was Monte
Carlo—a short walk from Monaco, it is
picturesquely situated on a prominent rock
overlooking the Sea, with the Maritime
Alps, in the back
	Everything is beautifully clean, no where, 
not even at the station did we see a speck
of dirt. We did not take the “Ascenseur”
up to the Casino, prefered walking up the
flight of steps, which were covered with
flowers and plants from all climes; the
grounds are fine and the promenades extend
around the rocky point, with fine views
which ever way you turn.
	Then I went into the threatre the music 
is of the best—one piece was Paderewski
Minuet, rendered exactly as composed.
	Just at evening we walked upon the ter-
race, looking to our right was a dazzling
view of Monaco, all the lamps were lighted
around the promontory and along the shore, 
looking, as Mrs. B. remarked, like a neck-
lace of diamonds, they were sparkling and
bright, while back of us over the moun-
tains hung clouds. We sauntered slowly,
to the cars. About eight o’clock we ar-
rived at Mentone.


[Column 1]
	Grand Hotel du Louvre, where all
arrangements had been made for us by our
manager.
	It is delightful here, the hote[-] [-]e many
we have seen abounds in delightful sur-
prises, lovely arbors, beautiful reading and
lounging rooms, so filled with potted plants
and vines you would imagine yourself in a
green-house. “The mildest climate, fogs
unknown, the sky generally cloudless, with
gardens of lemon and olive trees, and gaily
dressed people,” and the diminutive flea and
mosquito are indefatigable.
	Sunday, attended service at St. Johns—
Text “Who shall establish me, my body of
humiliation,” seventh chapter John, the
Epistle to the Philipians.
	This is a great resort for invalids and
churches are well attended, when one
grows old and ill, they believe there is but
one way—the right way.
	Monday 18th, Nov. By express train to
Genoa, in the direction of Ventimille and
Pisa, Rome, the railway runs close to the
banks of the Tyrrhenean Sea, on the
Riviera, the scenery is beautiful as a Poet’s
dream, the flowers, fruit, palm and orange
trees grow almost to the shore, the route
was attractive to the beautiful city justly
named the “Proud” (“Genoa la Superba.”
At the station there is a magnificent, monu-
ment to Columbus.
	We walked to the Hotel Grand de
Lundres, only a few steps. Genoa, a forti-
fied Maritime City, in the N. W. of Italy,
now capital of the Sardinian States, on the 
Gulf of Genoa, is built on seven very steep
hills, in the form of an Amphitheatre, on
the slope of the Appennines, its marble
palaces are on the seaward slope, with the
sheltering hills in the background.
	This is a most commercial City, owing to
its large harbor, which is in the form of a
semicircle, with a diameter of 1.000 fathoms,
enclosed by two strong moles, the opening
between which is 350 fathoms in width but
the entrance is difficult; the divinely,
heavenly blue of the water, has taken on
the tints of Mother—of—Pearl.
	We ordered carriages and drove first
through three streets in succession. Strada
Balbi, Strada Nuova, and Strada Nouvis-
simia, broad streets on which are the marble
palaces of the great families; the architec-
ture is fine and they are embellished with
painting and sculpture. We drive on a
road called via di circonvallazione over the
hills back of the city where we saw the old
Roman acqueduct, and to the Campo Santo,
then through the parks Acqua, Sala and
Viletta de Negro, where we had fine views
of the city and Mediterranean.
	We visited the Palazzo della Signora, the
ancient residence of the doge: the Cathedral
Lorenzo, with the tomb of St. John the
Baptist. The church was built in 1100,
often remodeled and restored the facade is of
black and white marble in alternate stripes
and looked somber.
	The Municipal Palace, containing
Paganini’s violin, and letters of Christopher
Columbus, the palace is rich simplicity and
contains in Mosaic, a portrait of Columbus
and one of Andrea Doria, a celebrated
Genoese Naval commander, who made his
name famous by his Naval exploits,
particularly against Barbarossa, and the
African Corsairs, he delivered Genoa from
the oppression of the French, he was in
1528 honored by the Senate, with the title
of Father and Savior of his Country.
A statue was erected to his memory, that

[Column 2]
this palace was built for him, the two portraits
are in the same room.
	Our time was limited so we only drove
into the Court of the Palace of His Majesty
King Humbert. There were other things
we prefered to see.
	In the palace Brignole Lole, we saw
masterpieces of Guido, Poalo Veronese,
Titiens, Von Dycks, Turner’s and other
Artists. There are many magnificent
churches, the Church Cariguano, built at
the expense of a citizen named Sauli, was
most splendid, his grandson erected a
monument of equal magnificence. The
bridge of the same name, is of great height,
connecting two hills and forming one of the
famous resorts of the Genoese. There are
several theatres, numerous Convents, a
University with a botanic garden and
Museum. A great hospital for the infirm
which with the poor house, “Albergo dei
Poveri,” ar like palaces, but the poor
won’t stay there, prefer to beg; there are
fifteen female asylums.
	We found great delight in the jewelry
stores, where the silver jewelry was most
beautiful. Now, last but not least the
thieves, two kinds, those so expert, they
will take your purse and be off while you
look at them and that class, who steal your
things to show you how gracefully they
can restore them again and you give them
centimes. They all have their own way,
as if you accuse them, the Police take you
along to appear at the trial, you must pro-
cure an interpreter and then you put them
behind the bars, but do not recover your
loss. Tomorrow off for Pisa.		KIM.


