	BY PHŒBE C. YOUNG.

	ARMENIA is,according to ancient tradition,
the original seat of one of the oldest civilized
people in the world; they claim
to be descended from Haik; whom they
say was the son of Tagarmah the son of
Gomer, the son of Japheth, the son of
Noah. He according to their tradition
established the Armenian kingdom in the
vicinity of Ararat the mountain on which
the Ark is said to have rested after the
flood; this was done at an uncertain date,
but is supposed to be about two thousand
years before the Christian Era.
	As a race they belong to the Indo
Germanic family of nations. The country
they possess is a high table land on the
southern slope of the Caucasus stretching
down towards Mesopotamia though its
boundaries have been changed many times
during the centuries of its history. Its
area is estimated at ninety thousand square
miles. Their oldest records contain noth-
ing beyond the facts that in ancient time
they were governed by independent kings
and afterwards became tributary to the
Assyrians and Medes,a fact that established
their antiquity as a nation in which it is
difficult to tell where myth ends and
history begins. We learn that about the
middle of the sixth century before Christ a
certain king Dikran of the Haiig dynasty
restored the independence of the kingdom,
the last king of this line was slain in battle
by Alexander the great, who conquered the
country and appointed Governors over it;
it is impossible in the space of one short
article to give even a faint description of the
changes and vicissitudes through which
Armenia passed through the next six hun-
dred years. Its subsequent history
exhibits an unbroken series of tumults and
wars; of violent successions to the throne;
despotic reigns and rapid decay. Subject
to the vigorous assaults of the Parthians
from the East and the more powerful
Romans from the West, “they sometimes
become partly dependent on one nation
and sometimes on the other. While in-
ternally the Nobles often broke through the
restraints of a feeble monarchy and claimed
the privileges of petty kings.”
	In six hundred thirty two the unhappy
country was subject to another form of
despotism under the Arabian Califs and
suffered terribly during their contest with
the Byzantine emperors. The rule of the
Sassanides was marked chiefly by their
sanguinary but unsuccessful attempts to
extirpate Christanity.
	The Byzantine Greeks on one side and
the Persians on the other seemed to regard
Armenia as their lawful or unlawful prey.
	In eight hundred and eighty five Aschod
of an old and powerful Armenian family
ascended the throne with the permission of
the Califs and founded the third Armenian
Dynasty; under this monarch and his suc- 
cessors Armenia was prosperous till the
eleventh century when divisions and inter-
nal strife began to weaken the country;
till at length the Greeks having murdered
the last monarch of the line seized part of the
kingdom, while the Turks and Kurds made
themselves masters of the rest.
	In thirteen hundred seventy four Asia
Minor was conquered by the Egyptian Sul-
tan Schalean, since that time Armenia has
remained subject to the despotism of the
Turks and Persians with the exception of

[Column 2]
the parts won from Persia in the present
century by Russia, and which are better
governed.
	Notwithstanding the political storms and
the persecutions passed through by this
much enduring people they have steadily
persevered their nationality both in its
physical and moral lineaments. They
have preserved their faith, although and
through persecution,oppression and sorrow;
they only possess to day a relic of their
ancient culture; they can still boast a higher
civilization than their conquerors. In con-
sequence of the great disturbances and
religious persecutions of the middle ages,
many of the Armenians sought refuge in
other countries and we find them scattered
over all Asia and Europe; in Hungary, in
Transylvania and Galicia they number over
ten thousand and they are very numerous
in Russia, but most in Asia Minor, in that
neighborhood alone they number over two
hundred thousand. The north east portion
of Armenia, about one third of the whole
was wrested from Persia by Russia in 1828
and is under the rule of the Czar which is to
be preferred to that of the Turk. About
a sixth part to the south east still belongs to
Persia, two thirds of the Armenian area is
Turkish.
	After the war of 1877—78 between
Russia and Turkey the Berlin conference
sanctioned the session of a strip of Armenia
to Russia, and the Sultan of Turkey under-
took to guarantee the Armenians security
against the Circassians and Kurds, also to
report to the European powers the measures
taken for much needed reforms. It is need-
less to say that this promise has been broken
in every particular.
	Christianity was introduced into Armenia
as early as the second century, but not
firmly established till about the third
century. It afterwards became the centre
of a great controversy regarding the two-
fold nature of Christ. Numbers of learned
men flocked to their colleges because of the
spirit of scientific inquiry that early mani-
fested itself among them, to a far greater
extent than in any other of the Eastern
Churches. The Bible was translated into
the Armenian language early in the fifth
century which was no doubt the reason of
the religious fervor that prevailed.
	Great efforts have been made, and great
influence has been brought at different
times to bear, to induce this people to ac-
knowledge the supremacy and infallibility
of the Popes of Rome, such efforts have
always failed, for notwithstanding all
changes the masses of the people have re-
mained true to their own peculiar opinions.
The Armenian Church entertains peculiar
ideas with regard to what is called the
seven sacraments. “They believe that at
baptism one must be sprinkled three times
and as often immersed. That confirmation
must be conjoined with baptism; that the
Lord’s supper must be celebrated with pure
wine and leavened bread, that the bread
must be dipped in the wine before being
handed round; that extreme unction is to
be administered to the Priests alone, and
that not before but after death. It also be-
lieves in the worship of Saints but not in
the doctrine of purgatory; secular Priests
must marry once, but none are at liberty to
marry a second time.”
	As a race the Armenians are remarkable
for their physical beauty and intelligence,
this last is noticable both in their literature
and their great capacity for business; in fact,

[Column 3]
this is so well known that they are employed
by all the leading business houses of Con-
stantinople, whenever men are needed for
positions of trust and dexterity in business.
It has been remarked that however much
the Armenians may be scattered in what-
ever countries they may be found; the
printing office is always a leading feature in
their colonies.
	The Armenian women as a rule are fine-
looking with intelligent faces and womanly
bearing. It is a well known fact that
among the Oriental races the women as they
advance in age become decrepit and lose
every vestige of beauty before we should
consider they had arrived at middle age.
	This is not the case with Armenian wo-
men as they increase in years their intel-
ligence and good looks become more mani-
fest. The history of the Armenians during
the last twenty years has been a series of
suffering,oppression and misrule; subject to
a nation “whose government is said to be a
praise to evil doers and a terror to those
who do well.”
	For notwithstanding the promise of the
Sultan at the treaty of Berlin to prevent
and punish the depredation of the Kurds
and to rectify the abuses of the Government
their condition far from growing better has
been growing steadily worse. We are
naturally led to inquire the causes that have
brought about the existing state of events
that are occuring in Armenia. One of
these reasons seems to be the greater educa-
tion and growing sentiment of independence
and nationality among the Armenians
themselves and “though they desire to lead
a peaceful life, peace is something they are
forbidden to enjoy.”
	[To be Continued.]


