CLUBS.

	THE third annual convention of the Utah
Federation of Women’s Clubs was held in
Unity Hall in this City, Wednesday and
Thursday May 20 and 21, meeting com-
mencing at 10 a. m. and at 2 p.m. of each
day. President Emma J. McVicker pre-
sided, Miss Emma McCornick acted as
secretary. Wednesday morning was de-
voted exclusively to business. The Presi-
dent appointed a credential committee.
Mesdames Green of Provo, Bannister of
Ogden and La Barthe of this City. 
	Committee on organization Mrs. E.
B. Wells chairman, reported one
club organized during the past year. The
Federation elected Mrs. Corinne M. Allen
as its representative at the annual meeting
of the General Federation at Louisville. 
REAPERS’ CLUB.
	REPORT of the Reapers’ Club read at the
Stake Federation of Clubs, Salt Lake City, 
May 20th, 1896. By Romania B. Pratt.
The Reapers Club is now in its fourth year
of useful instruction, with a membership
roll of forty-three, and an average atten-
dance of twenty-five. It convenes every
two weeks at the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
parlors, on Monday afternoon. The course
of study is Miscellany, Literature, Political 
Science and Current Events. The club
color is red and the badge is a wheat head. 
	The President and Secretary retire at
each meeting inviting two members to fill
these positions, to promote general education
in presiding and taking notes. Under the
head of Current Literature there have been
written and commented upon about twenty
sketches of the lives and works of noted
novelists, poets, philosophers, divines
theorists, musicians and artists. 
	The later sessions have been devoted to
the Study of Political Science followed by
questions and discussion. 
	The object of this club is social and in-
tellectual development. Its design is to
cultivate the heart as well as the brain
which will form a good mental equilibrium
and fit woman not only to shine as a greater
light around her own hearthstone, but to be
a more efficient custodian of home interests
in the wider domain of the world. 
	Progress is improvement upon the past;
and the study of the lives and works of
eminent men and women who have lived
before us or are contemporary, stimulates
to emulation. 
	The club women of Utah are the high
priestessess at the altar of the home, often
consecrated to plain living but also to high
thinking, where the noblest ideals are cher-
ished and where money is not King. 
	The Reapers Club of busy and earnest
women is as a small streamlet singing a
glad song of pride and thankfulness as it
glides into the larger stream of the State
Federation, and with it sweeps into the
General Federation of Woman’s Clubs,
helping to create a mighty force of womanly
power which will raise the standard of mor-


[Column 1]
als in the world and spiritualize and refine
the material and physical in man and thus
hasten the era of peace on earth and good
will to all men.
	The women of the Reapers’ Club do not
intend to be gleaners only from the good
works of others, but hope through industry,
to leave to posterity a legacy of their own
noble thoughts and improved methods of
life, that it may truly be said of them that
"the world is better for their having lived
in it.” 
	The women of the Reapers Club aim to
grasp the sickle of industry and enter the
fields of science and knowledge to reap and
bind into sheaves, golden truths, with
which to store the granaries of the intellect
as food for thought and action in a daily
progressive life, in all that is helpful and
uplifting to the human race.
	Mrs. J. M. Kimball, of Ogden, reported
La Coterie, of which we have no synopsis.
Mrs. Elmer B. Jones of Salt Lake and
	Mrs. E. B. Graham of Ogden were nomi-
nated as the first and second choice for state
correspondents of the General Federation
	Mrs. W. C. Jennings was elected Utah
Correspondent for the Lotus, the official
organ of Women’s Clubs.
	The Author’s Club of Salt Lake was ad-
mitted to membership, its delegate in the
convention was Augusta W. Grant. This
closed the business meeting.
	Tempting lunch was served in the par-
lors of the hall by Salt Lake club women;
all the visiting delegates were entertained
as also all the Presidents and delegates of
the City Clubs.
	The afternoon session opened with an ad-
dress of welcome by Mrs. E. La Barthe
who extended to all a cordial welcome.
	Madame President, Delegates to the Fed-
eration, Visitors from Neighboring Cities,
Friends:—It is my pleasure in behalf of the
home clubs to bid you welcome—welcome
to the metropolis of Utah—Salt Lake City.
	Welcome to the capital of this young
State, within whose domain assembled not
long since a memorable convention, the
record of which shall go down to posterity
as having granted the privilege of suffrage
to women, and which State, it is hoped,
with our help will soon enter upon a new
career of purer politics and better govern-
ment.
	Welcome to the birthplace of the first wo-
man’s club of the far West. In this beauti-
ful valley, nearly a score of years ago was
organized the incipiency of today’s auspici-
ous gathering, many of the devoted mem-
bers of which unite in sending you greeting.
	Welcome to the cause for which you have
come. The State Federation stands a con-
necting link between individual clubs and
the General Federation. New clubs are con-
stantly coming into existence. In some
States the increase is phenomenal. Utah is
doing its share. They are organized on an
independent basis; arrange a plan of work
and bring results to the State gathering.
The practical interests of women are multi-
plying so rapidly that only in this way can
we follow them and give their value to the
world.
	Welcome to this Federation, which is
paramount in importance to any preceding
one, because it is the first and largest as-
semblage of women in the new State. It
should establish our ability to perform a
part more vital and more dignified in the
large affairs of  our time; it should secure

[Column 2]
us leadership in matters now pressing for
action in our State. We represent the wo-
men of Utah, of diverse ages, tastes and
faith, banded together by common interest
in all that pertains to the advancement and
progress of women. Greeting to you is
universal. Moroni from the Temple’s
highest pinnacle trumpets it; the Blind
Goddess surmounting our city and county’s
pride justifies it; the eagle from our city
gate screams it; the flag from our Govern-
ment building, our club home on Fifth
East flaunts it; the signal guns at Fort
Douglas boom your welcome. All nature
is in unison; the birds sing it, the blossoms,
flowers and foliage lend their incense; the
wind whispers it, while we proclaim it is a
joy to have you with us; we are proud to
do you honor; the proceedings to follow
shall be inspired by your presence; we
esteem it a privilege to proffer our hos-
pitality. Again, we bid you sincere and
heartfelt welcome.
	In reply to Mrs. La Barthe’s cordiality,
Mrs. McVicker, as president of the Federa-
tion, said:
	Ladies of the Salt Lake Clubs; In behalf
of the Utah Federation of Women’s Clubs
I respond to your cordial welcome. I assure
you that we appreciate most deeply your
care and labor in providing for our comfort
and enjoyment while here, but especially do
we feel your generous words of encourage-
ment and appreciation of our great work of
advancing the intellectual, social and moral
development of the women of Utah.
	May we attain to the high standard you
have outlined for us, and our efforts be felt
for good in all that concerns our new State.
	It is said that all good things come by
threes. It is certain that the triad in music
is the foundation of all harmony. In the
triad of club organization our State Federa-
tion represents the mediant, the individual
club being the tonic and the general Federa-
tion the dominant. As there can be no
harmony without the gentle mediant, lying
between the strong foundation tone and the
imperial fifth, so may the State Federation
fill its appropriate mission of bringing the
individual clubs into accord with the great
dominant Federation. Thus shall the full
harmony swell and roll until it floods all
parts of our land.
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
	Ladies and Gentlemen: I have the
honor of representing the Utah Woman’s
Press Club. Since making our last report
to this noted organization, we have made
most gratifying progress, having admitted
during the past year many new members
all bright, active workers, ladies of high
literary taste and talents.
	We do not limit our membership, one of
the primary objects of our organization be-
ing to encourage young writers and culti-
vate all their literary possibilities, our hon-
ored president being an adept in bringing
out latent talent. Although many of the
results would not perhaps shine with
Shakespearean brilliancy yet we have
listened to many choice thoughts that
would otherwise never had birth. Our
motto is “The most good to the greatest
number." Our membership not being con-
fined to the environs of Salt Lake City
only, but extending through the domain of
the State of Utah.
	In reviewing our past year’s work one is
surprised with the amount of original work
done by this club, the greater part of every 

[Column 3]
session being devoted to this line of work.
	Our subjects for consideration and dis-
cussion have been historical, biographical,
scientific, poetical and polit cal. We have
debated the “Double money standard for
America,” the “Single tax” question, and
have recently formulated a plan for the
study of Parliamentary Law.
	Our meetings are held but once a month
unless called by the President for the
transaction of business.
	According to our by-laws we elect officers
once a year, no one is permitted to hold an
office longer than two successive years, thus
giving the greater number the opportunity
for the experience.
	During the past year it has been our
privilege to entertain a number of notable
people. In August last the gentlemen of
the local press courteously invited the Wo-
man’s Press Club to assist in entertaining
the Convention of Western editors then
enroute for the Pacific Coast. The Misses
Chase of Massachusetts gave us a glowing
description of their foreign travels in various
parts of the world; also Dr. Sarah J. Elliot
who awakened in our minds many
new ideas by her life-drawn pictures of the
noble self-sacrificing labors of Miss Clara
Barton. Mrs. Laura M. Johns the suffrage
speaker and organizer was also entertained
by us quite recently, and last though far
from least—the officers of the Utah Federa-
tion of Woman’s Clubs, by special invita-
tion honored us with their presence.
	Frequently is our club entertained most
bounteously at the homes of its members,
thus fostering a spirit of sociability which
in our case is the main-spring of love and
unity, this in turn being the true secret of
strength and power.
	In closing we would express as the senti-
ment of the Utah Woman’s Press Club:
The press—the friend of justice and reason,
the best exponent of virtue and a potent
subduer of vice—the promoter of intelli-
gence, knowledge and education. As
Phillips has said: “From the hour printing
was invented the brain and not the arm,
the thinker and not the soldier, books and
not kings, were to rule the world. Weap-
ons forged in the mind, keen-edged and
brighter than the sunbeam were to supplant
the sword and the battleax.”


