LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of meeting held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Hall April 18, 1896.
President M. Isabella Horne presiding.
Singing “Come come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Margaret F. Steele. Neither of the
secretaries being present Julia C. Howe
read the minutes of previous meeting which
were approved and Mary L. Morris acted
as secretary. 
	President Horne addressed the sisters;
spoke of having been absent from the
meetings some weeks on account of sick-
ness in the family, desired to fill her mis-
sion as a teacher in Israel, wished to be
humble and bear her part acceptably before
God, urged the sisters to be very watchful,
“Satan does not sleep, we are having an
easy time and we must be the more diligent,
easiness is dangerous; there are trials ahead
both for men and women, but the spirit of
God will guide us aright, we are to be tried
in all things, the time is not far distant 
when the dividing line will come, trials are
friends in disguise, let us be careful lest
after we have taught others, we may be a
castaway. Just as soon as we become lifted
up we are in great danger. I have lived to
see Counselors of the Prophet Joseph re-
moved, let us not speak against the Lord’s
anointed, whatever we think, let us not
speak it;” spoke of lying reports and lying
spirits, referred to the Lord wanting to
punish Ahab; also spoke of Job and a coun-
cil held in heaven and of Satan wanting to 
save people in their sins.
	Mary L. Morris followed bearing testi-
mony and speaking of the Gospel being
free to all, but they must come in at
the door, as we had done.
	E. J. Stevenson spoke of the sacred
minutes taken by the secretary Eliza R.
Snow, when the Prophet organized the
Relief Society, remembered Sister Horne’s
teaching when she carried her babies in her
arms, and could never, no, never forget it,
asked the sisters to pray for Sister Horne
and Sister Zina and cherish the sweet in-
fluence they felt in that house.
	Sister Francis, “let us be one, if we are
not united, the evil one will creep in among
us, made other good remarks. Sister Burns,
“let us honor the priesthood, I love to read
the Bible, my mother taught me to read a
little every day, and I found that the min-
isters of the sects of the day could not
answer my questions. I read the book of 
Mormon on my knees and asked God to
show me if it was true, he answered my
prayer. Miss Glade testified that she had
been a witness that the dead had been
raised, urged the sisters to keep the Word
of Wisdom strictly. Agnes Hunter testi-
fied to what Miss Glade had said, also said
that as soon as she received the Gospel she
had the spirit of gathering to Zion.
	Jeannette Morris, bore testimony to all
Sister Horne had said, “there is nothing
outside of the Gospel, God is no respector
of persons, the truth is free to all.” Isabel
Workman testified of being raised from al-
most death; when the consecrated oil

[Column 2]
touched her head, it was like electricity;
her son too had been raised from a very
low condition, spoke of the Word of
Wisdom and that the desire for tea had been
taken from her.
	Elmina S. Taylor, President of the
Y. L. M. I. A., said she had been blest in
attending the General Conference, referred
to evil speaking, especially against the
priesthood, knew our leaders were men of
God, and that we did not have to put out
our hands to steady the ark, said there
would be a greater apostacy than ever had
been.
	President Horne made closing remarks.
Sang “Lord dismiss us with thy blessing.”
Benediction by Julia C. Howe.
				M. L. MORRIS, Sec. pro-tem.


