OMeCOMNG jt Mary R. MacArthur to finish the plumbing that they can't get until tomorrow." "Oh, no! You mean everything is still in pieces?" "Ves." Alma picked her way through the dining room into the bathroom to inspect the invisible progress. Her plumbing had recently collapsed for the third time that autumn, and she had finally called in a plumber who had spent the week tearing out, repairing, and trying to renew the ancient fixtures. But everything had gone more slowly than expected, and nothing worked yet. Even worse, all the movable contents of the roomy old bathroom were piled and stacked in the adjoining room. Alma's inspection was cut short by the ringing of the telephone. She stepped into the dining room to answer it. "Surprise, Mommy—it's I Her daughter Kristy's excited voice pierced through the telephone and made Alma's heart leap. "Darling, how are you? Are you calling from school?" "No, and you'll never guess where I am. I'm in Bakersfield, and I'll be home in two hours!" "In Bakersfield! How did you get there? And why aren't you at school?" "Calm down, Mom! Everything's wonderful. You know that fellow Ted that I wrote you about? He offered me a ride down for the week end in exchange for a date with him to the big football game tomorrow. We didn't have any afternoon classes, so we got an early start today." "Sweetheart, it will be so wonderful to see you! I can't tell you how much we've missed you." "Oh, Mommy, I can hardly wait to get there. But, Mom— Lisa is with me, too. You remember the German girl in my dorm that I told you about? She seemed so lonesome and I'm dying to have you meet her. Ted brought his sleeping bag—lI don't think Larry will mind having him on the floor in his room, do you? And Lisa can share my room. Is it all right?" "Why... Yes, of course." Though positively overwhelmed, Alma managed to make some 199 HOMECOMING sort of reassuring noise. "But why didn't you tell me earlier in the week so I could have prepared a suitable homecoming for you?" "Oh, Mom, I knew you would kill yourself getting everything ready if I told you, and you're just too busy during the week. Besides, we didn't really know what our plans were until yesterday. Listen, Mom, our three minutes are up. Don't worry—we'll love things just as they are." _ As Alma said goodbye, a wave of panic swept over her. Kristy's first visit home from the university, and no plumbing! Two college friends coming with her. Her brain racing wildly, Alma ran for the vacuum cleaner. "Larry! Larry! Get in here! We've got a miracle to work!" Larry was sent off to the market with an impromptu shopping list, and Alma tackled the living room. As she straightened and dusted, she tried to remember what Kristy had said about her new friends, Ted and Lisa, in her letters. Ted was Kristy's first college boy friend—Alma remembered that her daughter had visited his lovely home near the college and had been impressed by his family. And Lisa? Let's see—her folks had left Germany in the thirties, and Kristy had said that they had become members of the Church while living in Switzerland. Oh, yes—Kristy had met Lisa at the Institute. Hadn't Kristy said that Lisa was fluent in four languages? Oh, my, thought Alma, looking around the small, well-worn living room. What in the world would those two think of this house? Alma was proud that she had been able to support her family with her teaching since her husband died, but how would it all look to Kristy now, after life at the university? Well, I certainly don't have time to worry about that now, Alma thought as she finished the living room and surveyed the mess in the adjoining room. But what on earth am I going to do about all this stuff? I can't move it now—there just isn't time left. In desperation she spread clean sheets over the piles of bathroom stuff and headed for the kitchen. A few minutes later she heard voices and the sound of car doors banging in front of the house. "Mother—we're here!" Cristy raced through the front door and threw herself into Alma's arms. She turned and hugged Larry. "Oh, it's so wonderful to be home!" As. Kristy introduced her mother to her friends, Alma could hardly keep her eyes off her girl. How pretty she looks, Alma thought, and how happy! The tired youngsters collapsed in the living room. "Are you hungry?" Alma asked. "I'd love to fix you a snack." A chorus of yeas greeted her Suggestion, and a few minutes later she was serving tuna sandwiches, hot chocolate, and doughnuts. For the first time Alma took a good look at the other young people. Ted was a spectacled, lanky type—so young-looking, Alma thought, but nice enough. Lisa—how much more mature she looked, but how tense she was. At that moment Lisa reached 490 for a doughnut and knocked over her cup of chocolate. "Oh, how awful of me!" Lisa jumped to her feet. "Mrs. Hargent, I'm so very sorry. What shall I do?" Alma watched the brown stain spread over the print slip cover. "It's nothing, Lisa—the slip covers are washable. But your lovely skirt...." Alma _ unzipped the bright cover, and winced at the sight of the ugly mohair sofa beneath. Oh, dear, she thought, we needed that camouflage! "Mother, what in the world is this?" Kristy was in the adjoining room, gazing at the sheetcovered piles. "Why, that's a surprise for you," Alma said lightly, trying not to let her embarrassment show. She told of her bathroom woes. "We'll have to play primitive tonight," she finished. "Miss Tanner next door is kindly lending us her facilities for the duration. You'll find a pile of towels by the back door." Kristy looked a bit desperate, and Alma tried to smile reassuringly at her daughter. The group broke up in a bustle of baggage hunting, sleeping bag unrolling, and goodnight calling. It was well past midnight when all was quiet again, and Alma sank exhausted into bed. THE next morning Alma was the first up, and she headed for the kitchen to clean up from last night's snack. The sight that met her eyes caused her to sink onto a kitchen chair, helpless with nearly hysterical laughter. Larry, fuzzy with sleep, stumbled into the room. "Mom, what's so funny?" Alma pointed to the kitchen sink. The whole counter was alive with ants—the little black grease ants, the nemesis of the California housewife. They had somehow found the tray with the crumbs of the midnight snack, and had brought colonies of comrades to the remains. "For Pete's sake, what's so funny about ants?" Larry demanded. "Your father and I used to have a grim family joke. Whenever we had a family crisis, three things always happened: the car broke down; the plumbing stopped; and the ants moved in."' Larry grinned. "I'm afraid to go out and look at the car." Alma sent Larry off to find the ant poison and tackled the mess. The last dead ant and dirty dish had just been disposed of when Kristy burst in. "Morning, Mommy! It's so marvelous to be home! I'm starved!" And that was the way the week end went, Alma thought —not as an orderly succession of minutes and hours, but like a wave sweeping over her all at HOMECOMING once. The young people never seemed to wear out or get tired of talking—or eating. | Saturday night, while Alma was preparing dinner, Lisa quietly came into the kitchen. "May I do something to help, Mrs. Hargent?" Alma was about to say no when she noticed a certain wistfulness on Lisa's face. "If you'd like, dear, you could wash and slice these tomatoes." The two found themselves deep in conversation in a very few minutes. Alma discovered that Lisa had lived in Copenhagen, where both Alma's parents had been born, and she eagerly listened to the girl describe the city. As they put the dinner on the table, Lisa smiled at Alma and said, "It seems wonderful to be in a real home again. My mother is a widow, too. We have spent much of our time in hotels in recent years—being here reminds me of our home in Switzerland before my father died." At dinner, Alma started apologizing to the group for the inconvenience of the still halfdemolished bathroom, but was interrupted by Ted. "If you think this is bad, Mrs. Hargent, you ought to see the facilities in the dorm where I live!"' Soon he had all of them roaring with laughter at tales of water fights in the freshman dormitory. Sunday moming Alma finally had a few minutes alone to visit with Kristy. Kristy couldn't talk fast enough to tell her everything she had saved up. "Mother, the girls are wonderful, all of them. I never dreamed living in a dormitory could be such a ball. Do you know what? I've been nominated for president of our wing!" "T'm so proud of you, dear." Alma reached over and hugged her daughter tightly. "And I'm proud of the things you stand for. We miss you very much, but we're so glad you're happy." "T miss you all terribly, too." Kristy's voice wobbled a_ bit. "Sometimes I get awfully homesick, but I know I'm aaEie the right thing." "Well, it won't be ame until Christmas now. Darling, I was just thinking... Will Lisa be able to fly to Europe to join her mother for Christmas?" "fT don't think so—she said something about her mother planning on visiting her at school for a couple of weeks." "Kristy, do you suppose they would enjoy spending Christmas here with us? I know our place must seem like a shack after what they're used to, but Lisa seemed glad to be in a home again." "Mommy! You doll! What a wonderful idea! Ill ask Lisa about it right away!" So very soon, it seemed, the young folks were scrambling around the house gathering up their belongings. While Alma was finishing some sandwiches for them to eat in the car, Lisa came to the kitchen. She put her hand on Alma's arm, and Alma turned and saw tears in the girl's eyes. "T don't know how to thank you, Mrs. Hargent. For this, and for the wonderful Christmas invitation. I would like so much for my mother to meet you and your children. If she can come, we would love to visit you at Christmas." '"'And if she can't, dear, I'll be expecting you to spend all the holidays with us." Alma gave Lisa a hug, and handed her the sack full of food. Larry bounded in, with Ted right behind him. ''What can we carry out, Mrs. Hargent?" "Hey," Larry broke in. "I told Ted he was welcome to sleep on my floor any time. Isn't that right?" "Sure it is, Ted," Alma smiled as she handed him a thermos of hot chocolate. "Then I'll be back,' Ted laughed. '"Thanks, Mrs. Hargent, for everything."" Another hug and a kiss from Kristy, and the group was out the door. Alma sank down on the recovered sofa and enjoyed the quiet. It had been, she decided, a wonderful week end..