Sleepwear and Sunsuits Janet W. Breeze Here is an interesting idea for making the most of those larger material scraps: sleepwear or sunsuits for children can be constructed by using a different print of cotton for each pattern piece. If second-time-around buttons are used, and you have patterns on hand, the cost of such articles of clothing can be limited to thread, and elastic for pajamas. Best of all—children call them '"'fun clothes!" Poters, oF IA ae P FOREIGN CASTES —— Florian Fy. Thayn et 3 _—, P ee) LY WI" tans Migs d RAR Sy LLY Ty v) "Or, vale A] AY | 4) yA) Fight-Layey French Torte France, n know about it! It is nNch cook Will wish It had Originated - Lo our knowledge. This j member of the G Y mother, Afton Ww. Hunt, a enera] Oard of Relief Society. It j es of Serving and it wi I Fillingyy cup Sugar: 5 tbsp. Cornstarch: 4 tbs Paste by Mixin these j i i 2 CUP water 4nd. Cook Consistency, If filling thickens to heat, add 1 4 tsp. Cinnamon, 1 tsp. R. Coo] before Spreading. (When cold, filling should be of firm pudding consistency, so it will hold its shape. If it is too thin, layers will slip.) Cut second layer of cake from loaf and lift to top of first layer. Repeat filling spread. Continue this process until the entire loaf, except the top layer, is layered and spread. There should be 8 to 9 layers if the uncut loaf measured nearly 5 inches high. Now spread the entire loaf on the sides and top with frosting. Let set several hours or overnight at room temperature. To serve, cut in thin slices as you would slice bread, being careful to support each slice with spatula, and lift to a dessert plate. Hilo Coconut For a crispy, non-sweet, munching treat, try these coconut chips. Like peanuts, it is impossible to stop with just a taste. Break or saw a coconut in two. Place with cut sides up on cookie sheet and into oven heated to 300 degrees for half an hour, or until a knife run between the shell and the meat loosens the meat and it comes free in large pieces. Do not remove the thin brown coating clinging to the white meat. With a vegetable peeler, and working from the cut edge of the coconut meat, slice into thin _ strips, keeping them as large as possible. Spread in broiler pan and sprinkle with salt, turning lightly once to mix salt. Heat the oven to about 200 degrees or less. Place pan of coconut slices in oven and let remain several hours or until dry. Coconut burns easily, so avoid using higher heat, but dry as you would dried corn. When chips are dry, store in airtight containers.