HAPPINESS

	Of all truly expressive words, the most
sought after, the most talked about, the least
understood, is happiness. Many and varied
are the opinions as to what happiness consists
in, and as many and varied are the roads
chosen in the persuit of it. As gold, or wealth,
is thought by the majority of the people to be
the most powerful ingredient in the sweet com-
pound of happiness, I will invite my readers
to lay aside all thought of worldly associations,
by which we may be biased in our judgement,
and take observations. By the way, I think
observation a true method for learning, and
one within the reach of all.
	Well, let the long line of money lovers pass
in array before us; there are two classes of
them—those who hoard up money, and think


the possession of it alone happiness, if they
could only obtain enough of it, and those per-
sons who crave for money to procure ease, self-
indulgence and prominence among their fellow-
beings. The first shut out all happiness by
hardening their hearts against sympathy, and
even fair dealings, in order to more effectually
amass riches. Their condition is rank avarice,
the twin sister of fanaticism—it knows neither
bounds nor satisfaction, and their dissappoint-
ment is their everlasting inferno.
	The second class, not having shut out all
kindly feelings for their fellow-beings, on the
contrary, being very much attached to them,
as necessary to their ease, comfort and ag-
grandizement, enjoy some degree of happiness,
while youth and health accompany wealth;
but as soon as old age with its infirmities over-
takes them, the enchantment under which they
have lived bursts like a bubble, revealing to
them the vast eternity for which they are to-
tally unprepared, and leaving them nothing
but disappointment and regret.
	Riches, then, are not the mainstay of happi-
ness, but a good servant in its cause, if under
the direction of a wise master.
	Observation teaches me to look for happiness
among the classes of comparatively humble
life; The young man who carves his own way
to prosperity, by frugality, industry and steady,
studious habits, is made happy in the respect
and confidence he creates around him; he no-
tices his neighbor's errors only to steer clear of
them; his noble aspirations buoy him up before
difficulties and obstacles, in the encounter of
which the slothful fall an easy prey. He sees
the autumn of his life set in full of satisfaction
for the labors he has performed, and at peace
with himself and his God he has no dread of
the opening of a future life. The same refers
also to women, although in a different sphere.
	The woman who shirks the respensibilities
which her Allwise Creator has imposed upon
her, misses the true source of her happidess.
The frivolous pleasures which she prefers to
the performance of honorable and sacred duties,
will cause her very desolation. Girls who
spend their precious time in scanning the fash-
ion books and reading trashy novels, and try-
ing to ape the heroine of a dime novel, grow
up into giddy women, who talk of the duties
and responsibilities of a wife and mother as
slavery and drudgery. Comforting and helping
our life companion and protector, slavery?
Training up sweet babyhood into noble man-
hood and womanhood, drudgery? I would
that every woman was blessed with such a task!
There is no drudgery in laboring for those
whom we love. Choose for your partner an
intelligent, honest, God-fearing man, bestow
the confidence and respect upon him that you
wish to be the recipient of, and never fear but
happiness will come to you in daily install-
ments, even in the midst of misfortune and
sickness; for a true woman is happiest when
she can bless and happify. There is sweetness
even in sorrow well endured, and sublime
satisfaction in the consciousness of duties faith-
fully performed.				E. C. E. F.
	Morgan City.


