HOME AFFAIRS.

	WEDNESDAY, April 20, we attended the second
anniversary of the Primary Association of the
12th Ward, Mrs. Ellen Clawson presiding. The
exercises were all well rendered, and a marked
improvement is noticeable. The numbers have
also greatly increased during the lasr year, and
it is easy to perceive that Mrs. Clawson and her
very efficient Counselors, Miss Annie Davis and
Miss Julia Druce, are using their best efforts to
make the P. A. interesting, attractive and in-
structive.

	TUESDAY, April 19, we attended the second
anniversary of the Primary Association of the
20th Ward in this city. A bazar was fitted up
at one end of the hall with a variety of articles,
ornamental and useful, all made by the little


folks. It was quite an artistic affair. The exer-
cises of the meeting were conducted by Mrs.
Emma Toone in an efficient and dignified man-
ner, and although there were one hundred and
fifty children in the room, the most perfect or-
der was preserved throughout the entire meet-
ing. There were recitations, essays, songs, organ
solos, dialogues, and speeches by the visitors,
among whom we will make honorable mention
of Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith and Presendia
L. Kimball, also T. B. Lewis, Superintendent
of schools, and C. R. Savage, Esq. During the
exercises a presentation was made to Mrs, Toone
of a motto, handsomely framed, by Miss Louisa
Simmons, in the following words:
	Dear President, as a token of our esteem and
appreciation of your valuable labors and unvary-
ing kindness as the President of the Primary
Association of the 20th Ward, we ask you to
accept this motto. It will be of increased value
to you from the fact that it is the workmanship
of your granddaughter, and with every stitch is
woven our faith and hope that the God in whom
we trust will bless you and the children of this
Association, and the hope of Israel everywhere.
	The work was neatly executed by Miss Geor-
giana Toone. We made several pages of notes,
which we shall publish hereafter.

	FRIDAY, April 15, we had the pleasure of at-
tending the second anniversary of the Primary
Association of the 11th Ward in this city. It
was the first organized in Salt Lake City, and
only preceded by the one in Farmington. There
was a very large attendance of children and a
goodly number of the parents. The Bishop was
also present a part of the time. On the plat-
form were Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina D.
Young and Presendia L. Kimball, and many
others who are also aiding in promoting the in-
terests of these organizations. The exercises of
the meeting were conducted in an efficient man-
ner by the president, Mrs. Louie Felt, who cer-
tainly deserves grea[-] credit for her perseverance
in training these little ones. There were songs,
recitations, essays, etc., Lizzie Parsons, a little
thing six years old, sang sweetly, in a clear and
distinct voice, "Nobody's Darling." Two little
daughters of C. W. Penrose sang very nicely in-
deed, quite as well as many young ladies could
have done. But the principal feature of the oc-
casion was the presentation of a wreath of hair
flowers, elegantly framed, by Laura Denney, a
child only seven years old, who came forward
and addressed the audience briefly, then turning
to Sister Eliza with a modest little curtsey, de-
livered, in a clear and forcible manner, a speech
written for the occasion by Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, which occupied perhaps seven minutes.
Towards the close, two very little children, a
boy and girl, came forward and handed her the
wreath, which she very gracefully presented to
the honored lady, who was so completely taken
by surprise she could scarcely reply. The wreath
is formed of a lock of hair from each child in
the Association, and in the center is a single
stem of flowers, composed of locks of hair from
the President and her Counselors, with their
photographs artistically arranged inside the
wreath. Sister Eliza, in a voice choked with
grateful emotion, spoke a few words to the chil-
dren, and thanked them for the honor con-
ferred upon her, and assured them she should
hold the gift very dear to her heart and remem-
ber them all when she looked upon it. Several
ladies expressed their delight in the training of
the young. Little Louie Felt, four years old
sang, in a rich and melodious voice, "I'll be a
little Mormon." Master Johnnie Sears pro-
nounced the benediction.


