[CONTINUED.]

	"As I returned from the woods where I had
fled for safety to the scene of slaughter, I found
the sister who started with me lying in a pool of
blood. She had fainted, but was only shot
through the hand. Farther on was Father
Mc'Bride, an aged, white-haired revolutionary
soldier; his murderer had literally cut him to
pieces with an old corn-cutter. His hands had
been split down when he raised them in suppli-
cation for mercy. Then one of the mob cleft
open his head with the same weapon, and the
veteran who had fought for the freedom of his
country in the glorious days of the past, was
numbered with the martyrs. My eldest son,
Willard, took my wounded boy upon his back
and bore him to our tent. The entire hip bone,
joint and all were shot away. We laid little
Alma upon our bed and examined the wound.
I was among the dead and dying; I knew not
what to do. I was there all that long, dreadful
night with my dead and my wounded, and none
but God as physician and help. I knew not but
at any moment the mob might return to com-
plete their dreadful work. In the extremity of
my agony I cried unto the Lord, O Thou who
hearest the prayers of the widow and fatherless,
what shall I do? Thou knowest my inexper-
ience, Thou seest my poor wounded boy, what
shall I do? Heavenly Father, direct me! And
I was directed just as by a voice speaking to me.
Our fire was smouldering; we had been burning
the shaggy bark of the hickory logs. The voice
told me to take those ashes and make a solution,
and saturate a cloth with it and put it right into
the wound. It was painful, but my little boy
was too near dead to heed the pain much.
Again and again I saturated the cloth and put
it into the hole from which the hip joint had
been ploughed out, and each time mashed flesh
and splinters of bone came away with the cloth,
and the wound became white and clean. I had
obeyed the voice which directed me, and having


done this, prayed again to the Lord to be in-
structed further; and was answered as distinctly
as though a physician had been standing by
speaking to me. A slippery elm tree was near
by, and I was told to make a poultice of the roots
of the slippery elm and fill the wound with it.
My boy Willard procured the slippery elm from
the roots of the tree; I made the poultice and
applied it. The wound was so large it took a
quarter of a yard of linen to cover it. After I
had properly dressed the wound, I found vent to
my feelings in tears for the first time, and re-
signed myself to the anguish of the hour. All
through the night I heard the groans of the suf-
ferers, and once in the dark we groped our way
over the heap of dead in the blacksmith shop, to
try and soothe the wants of those who had been
mortally wounded, and who lay so helpless
among the slain.
	"Next morning Brother Joseph Young, who is
still living to testify to this terrible occurrence,
came to the scene of bloodshed and massacr[-].
'What shall be done with the dead?' he asked.
There was not time to bury them, the mob was
coming on us; there were no men left to dig the
graves. 'Do anything, Brother Joseph,' I said,
'except to leave their bodies to the fiends who
have killed them.' Close by was a deep, dry
well. Into this the bodies were hurried, eighteen
or nineteen in number No burial service, no
customary rites could be performed, the mob
were lying in ambush ready waiting the first op-
portunity to diapatch the remaining few. All
were thrown into the well except my murdered
boy, Sardius. When Brother Young was assist-
ing to carry him on a board to the well, he laid
down the corpse and declared he could not throw
that boy into the horrible grave. It was indeed
too much for one whose nature was so tender
and whose sympathies were ever strong in the
hour of sorrow. He could not perform the last
office for one so young and interesting, who had
been so foully murdered and so my martyred
son was left unburied. 'Oh, they have left my
Sar[-]ius unburied in the sun,' I cried, and ran
and covered his body with a sheet. He lay there
until the next day, and then I, his own mother,
horrible to relate, assisted by his elder brother,
Willard, went back and threw him into this rude
vault with the others, and covered them as well
as we could with straw and earth."

To be continued.


