CONTINUED.

	Howard was very angry. he was not a
Mormon, and believed their doctrine to be a
"pack of nonsense." People might believe as
they liked so long as it did not interfere with
him, but he considered that they were now in-
terferiug in a most unwarrantable manner, and
he had no sympathy with their feelings. If
Mary would not go she must take the conse-
quences, he would not try to lighten them. So,
taking the wagons and stock and all the pro-
visions made with the money sent by his brother,
with everything he could possibly carry away,
he left her and returned to California. How-
ard was some years older than Jesse, and a wid-
ower. Feeling that it was not good for a man
to be alone, he laid siege to the heart of a sus-
ceptible young widow with four dear little boys.
Herself and her father's family were preparing
to leave the valleys. Thinking, no doubt, it
would prove a blessing in the matter of ways
and means, she graciously accepted his propos-
als, and they were married. She dutifully went
with her husband, who, before reaching home
was so thoroughly disgusted with her conduct,
that he made provision for her to go with her
father's family to another part of the State,
while he went on, a wiser if not a happier man.
	When he was gone and the excitement was
over, Mary had time for reflection. She felt
that Jesse would be very angry with her for
daring to decide in a matter of so much im-
portance, against his wishes, but she put her
trust in God, and prayed Him that her burden
might not be more than she was able to bear.

[Column 2]
Jesse had given everything to his partner, who,
with a view, perhaps, to future possibilities, had
built the house for Mary on his own land. He
claimed it as his now, and she had no thought
of disputing the claim, although it left her
without a shelter for herself and helpless fam-
ily. He was not willing that she should stay
there, even for the few short months that would
intervene before she could hear from her hus-
band. A friend offered her the use of a dilapi-
dated house he had moved out of. She accept-
ed it, and by taking a couple of boarders man-
aged to subsist through the summer months.
But oh, the agony of that long summer! Would
Jesse come, would he send her means, or what
would he tell her to do? His business would
no doubt prevent his coming, and she might
have to wait several years for his return. The
months wore away, and no word came. The
mails were slow in those days, and letters were
a long time reaching their destination even in
summer; in winter the mountains were impassa-
ble. She had sent a letter by mail, thinking it
would reach him before Howard did, and take
the loving words which she knew he would not
carry; for he had left her with a heart full of
anger, and no doubt, instead of cooling, it would
increase with the distance.
	The cabin she lived in could hardly be called
a shelter, for the loose boards overhead let in
the water when it rained, and the walls were in
a ruinous condition; she could not live there
through the winter. She had no money and no
source of income; her provisions were nearly
exhausted, and wood scarce and hard to be got.
If Jesse failed her, what should she do? Her
spirit revolted at the thought of becoming a
charge on the Church. Slowly the summer
months passed by, and September reminded
her that winter was drawing near, when at last
a letter reached her from Jesse.
	Howard had arrived, and putting his own
construction on Mary's conduct, had inflamed
his anger and aroused his jealousy, by telling
him it was for some other man that Mary had
forsaken him, as he termed it. He was hot-
tempered, and poured forth his wrath in no
stinted terms. Abusing Brigham Young and
the Church, and everybody he thought in any
way connected with her detention. He said
she should no longer bear his name, nor claim
his support. Not a dollar more would he ever
send her nor her disobedient children. Minnie
was old enough now to choose for herself, and
she had chosen to stay with her mother; but
Nettie was young yet, and her mind was not
influenced by her surroundings, he would take
her, let the consequences be what they might.
He demanded a divorce, and signed it with his
blood.

To be continued.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
10th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART, and LUNGS.

