	CONTINUED.
	Before proceeding any farther I will say to
my friends that nothing could have been far-
ther from my mind, when commencing to write
"Life Incidents," than the thought of going
back or copying so much from my father's
journal; but different ones having expressed
the pleasure they felt in reading these sketches,
prompted me to continue them so far, but it
would be useless to expect much of it to be
printed in this little paper.  The history of his
missionary life, in connection with his brethren,
is one of deep interest, and I had hoped ere
this to have seen it published in book form for


[Column 1]
the benefit of others besides his family. A 
number of them, with myself, having heard his
mind upon the subject, considered it not only
a pleasure, but a duty that we owe to him, to
see that his name and his works are kept in
honorable remembrance, to be handed down to
his numerous posterity, we therefore employed
E. W. Tullidge, the author of the "Life of
Brigham Young," etc, believing this to be the
wisest course in a pecuniary point of view that
we could adopt. After we had expended con-
siderable money to accomplish this purpose, 
and it was prepared for the press, there arose
unlooked-for obstacles, which prevented, or de-
layed its publication, and most of them have
despaired of receiving any recompense, and
consider their money thrown away. One hun-
dred dollars was all the ready money I had, 
and I gave that freely towards it, and it has
often been reiterated in my ears that the money
had better been spent some other way; but I do
not consider it lost, but like bread cast upon the
waters, after many days it will return; and if it
should not, I gave it for a good purpose, and
consider it a very small sum when compared 
with the debt I owe to my father.  
	Besides a true record of his travels and pub-
lic life in the vineyard, it contains much that
has never been published, also many pleasing
and interesting reminiscences and incidents in
connection with his family, which no pains 
were spared to gather up to make the book in-
teresting and desirable. The style of the
author is peculiar to himself, which we often 
criticised to his face, and were allowed to make 
some few alterations; but as far as my father's 
history is concerned, I feel satisfied that it is
held sacred by him, as is the memory of the
man whose name he has never ceased to love
and revere. I shall sketch but little more
from my father's history before I return to the
scenes in Nauvoo. 
	On my father's return from his second mis-
sion to the Eastern States, he found a great
change had taken place in Kirtland; the spirit
of getting rich was prevailing in the midst of
the Saints. He and his brethren were grieved
to see that a spirit of apostacy had crept in
among them. Some of the Apostles were dis-
affected, and were seeking to overthrow the
work which they had previously been engaged
in. My father describes the scene; he says: 
	"We were grieved to see the spirit of specu-
lation that was prevailing in the Church; trade
and traffic seemed to engross the time and at-
tention of the Saints. Wen we left Kirtland
a city lot was worth about $150; but on our
return. to our astonishment the same lot was
said to be worth from $500 to $1,000, accord-
ing to location; and some men who when I left
could hardly get food to eat, I found on my
return to be men of supposed great wealth. 
In fact, everything in the place seemed to be
moving in great prosperity, and all seemed de-
termined to become rich; in my feelings they 
were artifical or imaginary riches. A bank
was also established, called the Kirtland Safety
Society, in which myself and most of the
Twelve were appointed directors. This bank
issued paper to a considerable extent, This
appearance of prosperity led many of the
Saints to believe that the time had arrived for
the Lord to enrich them with the treasures of
the earth, and believing so, it stimulated them
to great exertion; so much so, that two of the
Twelve, Lyman E. Johnson and John F. [-]oyn-
ton, went to New York and purchased to the
amount of twenty thousand dollars worth of
goods, and entered into the mercantile business, 
borrowing considerable money from Polly
Vose and other Saints in Boston and the re-
gions round about, and which they have never
repaid.
	"This state of things did not continue long, 
for our enemies, being filled with jealousy and
hatred, drew upon the bank till money began

[Column 2]
to fail; and in proportion as adversity came up-
on us, the faith of many began to fail, and be-
ing filled with the spirit of speculation, they 
ran greedily into the world, erred from the
faith and joined our enemies. Some who were
entrusted with the bank robbed it of a consid-
erable amount, which was palmed upon us as 
a means to overthrow us; also a counterfeit, 
which was said to have been issued from the
bank. Those of integrity in the Chuch re-
placed the robbed money at the expense of all
they had; I may also add that a greater speci-
men of integrity was never known among men. 
Warren Parrish, who was a clerk in the bank, 
afterwards acknowledged he took twenty thou-
sand dollars, and there was strong evidence
he took more." 	*	*	*
	"This order of things increased to such an
extent during the winter, that a man's life was
in danger the moment he spoke in defense of
the Prophet of God. During this time I had
many hours and days of sorrow and mourning, 
for my heart sickened to see the awful extent
that things were getting to. The only source
of consolation I had was in bending my knees 
continually before my Father in Heaven, and
asking Him to sustain me and preserve me
from falling into snares, and from betraying
my brethren as others had done; for those
who apostatized sought every means and op-
portunity to draw others after them. They also
entered into combinations to obtain wealth by 
fraud and every means that was hellish. At
this time I had many dreams from the Lord, 
which kept me from falling into the snares
which I desired to escape; one of them I will
relate: I dreamed that I entered into the house
of John Boynton, in which there was a panther; 
he was jet black and very beautiful to look
upon, but he inspired me with fear. When I 
rose to leave the house he stood at the door, 
with the intention to seize on me, and seeing
my fear he displayed his beauty to me, telling
me how sleek his coat was, and what beautiful
ears he had; and also his claws, which appeared
to be of silver; and then he showed me his
teeth, which also appeared to be silver. John
F. Boynton told me that if I made myself
familiar with him he would not hurt me; but
if I did not he would. I did not feel disposed
to do so and while the panther was displaying
to me his beauty, I slipped through the door
and escaped, although he tried to keep me
back by laying hold of my coat; but I rent
myself from him." 
	"The interpretation of this dream was liter-
ally fulfillhd. The panther represented an
apostate who I had been very familiar with, 
and is well known by thousands, though I will
not mention his name. I felt to thank the 
Lord for this dream and other intimations that
I had, which, by his assistance, kept me from
falling into snares."  
	My father, in his journal; speaks of Brother 
Willard Richards, who had come to Kirtland
with his brother Levi. Brother Willard had
read the Book of Mormon, and came to inquire
further concerning "Mormonism." My father 
writes: 
	"Dec 31, 1836, I was present when Elder
Brigham Young baptized my friend, Willard
Richards, in a tributary of the Chagrin River, 
east of my house, at twelve o'clock, midnight, 
having assisted my brethren in the afternoon
cutting through the ice for that purpose, and
assisted at his confirmation. In a few days
afterwards I met him in one of the streets; 
while talking on the spiritual affairs of the
world, being full of prophecy I prophesied in
the name of the Lord that I should yet go on 
a mission to the shores of Europe. Brother 
Richards asked, 'Shall I go with thee?'  and I 
said unto him, 'Yea, in the name of the Lord, 
thou shalt go with me when I go.'"
	[To be Continued.]


