LIVING  LINKS:
OR 
SPIRITUAL  AND  TEMPORAL
BY  AVONDALE.
CONTINUED.
 Is it not strange  that  professors  of  religion,
who  call  themselves  Christians, should  perse-
cute the  Latter-day Saints? So the  Pagans*
persecuted  the  disciples  of  Jesus  Christ  an-
ciently, whom they called "Christians," as men
now call his  followers  in the Chruch of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints "Mormons." Strange
that  history  should  thus  repeat  itself  so ex-
actly!
	Mr. Missionary Unipod  had  an  intense an-
tipathy to the followers of Joseph Smith, with-
out knowing the reason why;  in this respect he
was  not  alone  among  professing  Christians.
The  conversion  of his  son  to  "Mormonism"
only increased  the  zeal  of this  gentleman  in
the  direction  of  antagonism  to the obnoxious
Latter-day Saints, of which  spirit the mission-
aries subject to his influence naturally partook.
	"Could you  not  find  any  denomination of
Christians to  ally yourself with without going
to these 'Mormons?'" asked the missionary  of
his  son,  as  though  the  Mormons  were  not
worthy  of  the  name  of  Christians.  "These
Mormons" was  spoken  in  a tone  of derision,
which the good man would  not have indulged
in had  he known  that the  Latter-day Saints
are believers in that same Jesus Christ that the
missionary  himself  extolled  so highly -- that
same Jesus who  in  his day was hated, as were
his  followers, for  the  truth's  sake, and  at last,
slain for the testimony of Jesus.

*The Pagans were heathens who lived in the
days of  the  early  Christians;  they  were  the
last  to  receive Christianity.  Pagan sacrifices
were  denounced  by edict  in  385 (by Theodo-
sius)  and  the  heathen  temples  closed, their
shrines and sacrifices were abolished. But Pagan
ceremonies  were  revived  in  the Christian
churches in the beginning of the fifth century,
and with them  the  dark  ages  of  Christianity
were  commenced  and  perpetuated. Then
Christianity become a  fashionable religion, as
it is in various forms to this our day.

	"Father," said  the  Mormon  convert,  "You
know nothing of the inner life of that religion
which  the  world  is  pleased  to  call 'Mormon-
ism,'  or  you  would  not, you  could not oppose
it;  the  very spirit  of  that Gospel  which Jesus
taught is incorporated into every article of our
faith."  "Your  faith,"  replied  the  father, "is
man made;  Joseph  Smith  was a money digger,
profligate and profane, pretending to have reve-
lations  and  the  visits  of  angels, even  of our
Savior Jesus Christ himself."
	"Father, you  have  listened  to  the  voice of
the  enemies of  Joseph Smith,"  replied his son,
"and not  to  his  friends, those who know him,
who have  received the  Gospel he was the hon-
ored  instrument  of  restoring  to  man.  Were
you to listen to the enemies of Jesus Christ, he
was 'a gluttonous  man  and  a  wine-bibber, a
friend  of  publicans  and  sinners.'  You would
not  countenance  the  acts  of  men who stoned
Stephen becasue the heavens were opened to
him, and  'he, being  full  of  the  Holy  Ghost,
looked up steadfastly into  heaven, and saw the
glory of God, and  Jesus standing on the right
hand of  God.'  You used to tell me, years ago,
that  'Jesus  is  coming  to  reign  on the earth,'
that 'the  prayers  of the  Saints  are to prevail
and  to  be  answered,' that  'the  kingdom  will
come, and his will be done on the earth as it is
in  heaven.'  How can  his  kingdom be estab-
lished  without  his  authority?  How  can  his
will be done  on  earth 'as it is done in heaven,'
unless the plan is revealed from heaven? Surely
you will  concede  to  Jesus  the right to restore
the Gospel, and that He had the right to choose
his own instrument.  Joseph Smith was a man
of large faith in God;  he prayed for revelation
from heaven, and God  appeared  to  him, with
his  Son  Jesus Christ, and  the  authority was
given to Joseph Smith to organize the  Church
of Jesus  Christ upon the earth again, as it ex-
isted  when  established  by  Jesus.  As  to the
humble position occupied by Joseph Smith, and
his  lack  of  the learning  of  the  age, the Jews
preferred  similar  charges  against  Jesus; they
challenged  his  authority: 'How  knoweth  this
man letters, having never learned?'  Jesus an-
swered  them,  and  said:  'My doctrine  is  not
mine, but his  that  sent  me.  If  any man will
do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,
whether  it  be  of  God, or  whether  I speak of
myself.  He  that  speaketh of himself seeketh
his  own  glory;  but he  that  seeketh his glory
that sent him, the same is true, and no unrigh-
teousness  is  in  him.'  The  Prophet Joseph
Smith always  honored  Jesus in  all his minis-
trations; he  never  took  glory  to  himself, but
gave all the  honor to God."
	"What a  pity  it  is,"  said  the  missionary,
"that  so  much  beautiful truth is embodied in
'Mormonism;'  it  is  this that deceives the igno-
rant and unwary."
	"Father," said the  Mormon convert, "it is a
system of truth, planned in the heavens before
the world was, for  the salvation of all the hu-
man family."
	"Well," said  the  missionary  father  to  his
Mormon son, "I believe you are sincere in your
religion, and I will pray for you;  I have prayed
for you  for  years, you  have  been remembered
at the  Throne  of  Grace, that  you might be able
to assist  in  the  great work in which I and my
fellow missionaries are  engaged--to preach the
Gospel  and be  numbered with  me in the Lon-
don City Mission."
	"Father," replied  the  son, overcome  by the
spirit of love  manifested  in  the words of his
father,  "your  prayers  are  answered;  I  have
embraced  the  Gospel, I have  lifted  up  my
voice in the highways and byways of this great
metropolis, calling  on men  to  have  faith  in
God and in our Lord Jesus Christ, to repent of
their sins  and be baptized for the remission of
sins, to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost by
they laying on of the hands of the Elders; and
although I have been met and opposed by some
of  the  missionaries  of  your  society,  as  have
many of my brethren  who  have been engaged
in preaching the Gospel, I have  rejoiced in my
labors, I have  realized that  your prayers have
be answered  in  my  behalf.  And  when  I
came to tell you, at my last  visit, that I had
received  the  truth, it was that I might cheer
your  heart  with  the  glad tidings  that I had
heard and obeyed the Gospel!"
	To these conversations between the mission-
ary father and his "Mormon" son many listened
attentively, and very few became angry;  when
the love  of  God fills  the bosom, and the peace
of God, which passeth all understanding, takes
possession  of  the  heart, there  will be  no ten-
dency  to  hate.  If no  other  good  can be  di-
rectly  traced  to  these  interviews, ever after-
wards  the  "Mormon"  missionaries,  in  going
forth  to  preach  the  Gospel  in  the  streets of
London, they were not opposed by the brethren
of the London City Mission.
	Could we  but  realize the breadth and com-
prehensiveness of the Gospel, we should all see
the necessity of this great Latter-day work, to
bring  to  pass  the  purposes  of  God,  as  made
known  to  the  ancient  fathers. "In thee, and
in  thy seed,  shall  all  the  nations of the earth
be blessed;"  this was the promise to Abraham,
and  renewed  to  his  offspring, the ancient pa-
triarchs.  This  is  why  God  has again spoken
to man, and  sent his angel to carry out his de-
signs -- those of  blessing  the  entire  human
family, "to  turn  the  hearts  of  the fathers  to
the children  and the hearts of the children  to
the  fathers."  Such  is  the  work begun by the
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  these  days, and  it
will be carried on to its final consummation !
		To be Continued.


