		HOMESPUN.

   Well, girls, I am always glad to see you.  
You want me to talk, do you?  I am glad you
do, for I have been thinking to-day about your
future lives, and wishing I could smooth some 
of the cobble stones of misfortune out of your
daily paths.  I know you are mostly girls who
attend Mutuals, but as a rule the advice you
get there is general.  Now, my dears, you know,
and I know, that although you have a desire
to be good, honest girls, your ambition is
mainly to "have fun" and to succeed in get-
ting the sweetheart of your choice.  We are
accustomed, and in fact obliged, to work in this
Territory, and have no time and less inclination
to read Harriet Martineau, or even Robbie
Burns.  We read the EXPONENT and occa-
sionally a novel, and fill up the remainder of 
our minds with trifles.  Of course, girls, I 
don't expect you to develop a taste for study
through my chat. but let me beg of you to try
and know something of one subject, at least. 
   Wouldn't you like to be as intelligent and
respected as Sister E. R. Snow?  You can at
least make an effort.  Just set yourself to learn
something.  Study the Bible, Book of Mormon, 
anything to be exercising the mind.  Its no
use to read a book, then never think of it
afterwards.  Take it up, and at the same time
take up your mind and set it at the desk of de-
termination, and above all, think.  I know
how it will be- at first you will read, "In the
beginning;" then, when you have reached the
fourth verse your mind will have slid down the
lap of time, and will be picking the apples of 
Idle Fancy in the vast garden of the Present, 
But commence again.  Treat yourself as a 
disobedient child, box your mind's ear; and fix
your mind's eye on the page before you.  Now
coax that truant, Fancy, to help you work.  
Paint out in vivid colors the picture conjured
up by the majestic words- the vast, palpable, 
throbbing darkness, the brooding quiet, as the
unformed mass swings through eternity.  Ages
pass, and the still, powerful voice calls "light,"
and it is born with a mighty throe of Mother
Earth.  Ages roll on, aud by the Divine Will
the waters stealthily creep away from the 
broad ribs of the mountain peaks, and at the
close of the second day the land is divided from
the roaring, sweeping seas.  Go on with this
panorama, and let Imagination place the pic-
ture in the frame of Reality; and when you
have finished the chapter, lo!  you have thought.  
Your mind has brushed away the cobwebs of
neglect and opened one tiny door and stored
carefully up a treasure.  Don't stop here, then, 
but keep on.  And another thing, if you fondly
imagine one can make up one's mind and the
thing is done, you will be rudely taught better.  
You must know, my dears, my experience has
been that when Homespun says she will, that
relentless tyrant, Circumstance, says she shan't. 
I am not one of those doughty warriors who
have only to say "I will," and it is accom-
plished.  Quite the contrary; through every
possible crevice is poked an excuse into my too
willing hand. and these same excuses are the
wickedest little imps- after I have taken them
to my bosom, and the time comes when the
opportunity is gone they immediately fly out
of my reach and sit in a row facing me, with a 
most ungrateful grin on their faces, and chorus
at me, "Ah, you might as well have done it, 
for you could have dispensed with us." But
shall I tell you what to do even in trying to
cultivate your minds?  Let the pure spirit of
prayer enter the gateway of your heart, and
fold you about with the sweet mantle of hu-
mility, and with humble words bear your wish 
to the feet of God.  Ask Him to help you to
concentrate your minds, to quicken your intel-
ligence, and behold, it is done.  Good night.


