BY  HANNAH  T.  KING.

 I believe  I  may say without fear  of  contra-
diction, that  Queen  Victoria  has  been  and is
the most popular  sovereign  of  her era, and the
same may  be  said  of her  government. Her
reign has been  agreeable  to her name, for vic-
tory has  crowned every enterprise of the same;
she has  been  surrounded  by  men  of  patriotic
character,  of  broad  brains  and  large hearts,
and she has shown, upon all occasions, that she
realized their  calibre and  ability, and has been
one with them, still ever holding her high posi-
tion  and  prerogative,  of  which  I  believe  her
strong will and good common sense has rendered
her capable of doing at all times;  she has given
proof  of  this on  a  few occasions, when she felt
her ermine  was  too  officiously touched or the
purple too  rudely  invaded;  and  this glorifies
her  position.  Had  Solomon,  "the  wisest of
men," done  this,  he  had  never  fallen so ab-
jectly.
 The  early  years  of  her  reign, especially in
her domestic life, were those  literally  of poetry
and romance;  her life was absolutely above the
common  lot  of  humanity.  She  had married
the man of her choice, and their association to-
gether  as  children, when  he  visited England,
his return  home, and  again  after  some years
paying another  visit, when  their  intimacy was
renewed,  and  they  had  every  opportunity of
becoming acquainted with each  other's charac-
ter and predilections, were all so unusual in the 
preludes of royal marriages, that it looked like
destiny.  Yet, of  course there were agents that
desired  an  alliance  with  the  queen elect, and
who worked for that purpose, and with the best
and  purest  of  motives. Her uncle, her  moth-
er's  brother,  Prince  Leopold,  (subsequently
King  of  Belgium) being  one  of  these  agents;
he had been the happy husband of the Princess
Charlotte, the  daughter  of  George  the Fourth
and Caroline  of Brunswick,  and  but  for  her
sad, early death, would have  stood precisely in
the same position  as his nephew, Prince Albert,
stood. On their marriage the government gave
them Claremont as a residence, and there many
of the  infant  years  of  Victoria  were  
Prince Leopold proving himself a foster father 
to the young sovereign in embryo; here, she 
says, her happiest, childish days were passed. 
	I return to my remark that hers seemed above
the  common  lot.  She  bore  children  almost
without suffering; they were fine formed,healthy
children, and I never  heard  of  sickness being
in their  household;  she  loved  her husband
with a degree  of  worship, and  he  was worthy
of it; she had the proudest nation  in  the  world
at  her  feet;  for  truly  the  chivalry  of ancient
times seemed  revived  and  exhibited  by the
English people  at  that  time;  the men  felt she
was the lady of their choice,  and  the  women
embraced her in their hearts  as their sovereign
queen, and felt as though the grandeur and the 
glory of that  noble  woman  reflected  back on
them--and it  did !  Had  she  indeed  been the
"Lord's anointed" she  could  have  received  no
more loyal homage than she did in every move
she made.
 She was  an  accomplished  equestrienne, and
before  her  marriage a cavalcade  of ladies and
gentlemen issued  from  the  palace gates  every
day, to take their joyous  ride around the beau-
tiful environs.  The  most  fearless  and  accom-
plished  horsewoman  in  England,  a baronet's
daughter, was  engaged  to  ride  and  train the
horses Her Majesty had chosen for her own use,
a groom always accompanying the Lady in her
exercises;  when  she  pronounced  the  horse, or 
rather  his  education  complete, he was led  out
for  the  Queen's  use  and  approval.  Her  Ma-
jesty was  fond  of  reviewing her  soldiers, and
was never absent from such events, which gave
an inspiration  to  such scenes. At this time of 
her life  she  seemed to wear  a  crown  of roses,
entirely without thorns.  Prince Albert shared
in these fond national feelings, for the country
loved him for the wise course  he took  in ever
remaining neutral in all affairs of government; 
if he ever did influence the Queen it was for a
national good.  A  few  years  after  their mar-
riage he  was elected Chancellor of the Univer-
sity  of  Cambridge,  the  oldest  in  the world!
The Queen  accompanied  him,  and  all  the
county families rose up  en masse to rally round
her and her Consort;  nothing could exceed the
enthusiasm, and  yet  respectful  devotion  dis-
played on that occasion. One  hundred of the 
flower  of  the  yeomanry  of  the  county  were
appointed to meet the royal party at the station,
and as a guard of honor escort it into the town.
their   horses were most  of  them  finely trained
hunters, and  they were  a  body  of  men  to be
proud  of. The  entrance  of the  cortege  into
the  fine  old  town,  with  its  world-renowned
buildings, magnificent in their grand old archi-
ture, and the immortal  reminiscences attached
thereto, was a sight never  to  be  forgotten; fir-
ing of  cannon annonced it, and  better still,
and sweeter, were the  bells  of St. Mary's, the
University  Church,  first  the  firing  of them,
and then  floating  off into  the  sweetest music
bells  are  capable  of  giving;  the  cavalcade
passed on to Trinity College, passed through its
fine old gates  of  the most elaborate iron work,
and closed when the royal carriages had passed
in; but through their ornamental work all was
perfectly  visible to outsiders, even to the alight-
ing.
 Trinity  Lodge  is  a  royal  residence  of the
sovereign when  visiting  the  University, there-
fore she  took  possession  of  her  own. Doctor
Whewell, the  world-renowned mathematician,
was then  Master  of  Trinity  College,  and  of
course  inhabited "The  Lodge." Mr. Norton,
the gentleman controller of the Queen's house-
hold, preceded Her  Majesty by  a  day or two,
to see  the needful preparations were all made,
and one was  to  wait upon  Mrs. Whewell, and
inform her  of the  etiquette  it would be neces-
sary for her to  observe, viz., that she must not
attempt  to "receive" the  Queen, as  it was vir-
tually  her  own  residence; consequently, she
and the  doctor  retired, and  in  due  time  the
Queen  received  them  as  her  most  honored
visitors.
The  day  of  the  installation  was  one  to be
remembered. Every house  and  street  was
crowded with visitors.  The  Senate House was
the  scene  of  the  inauguration;  none  but the
creme de la creme were admitted, and they only
by tickets. It is as  large  as  our large Taber-
nacle, with gallery all  round, the students and
Bachelors of Art occupying it, with wranglers,
senior  wranglers  and  young  masters  of  art.
On leaving, all, of  course,  were  standing, wav-
ing hats  and academical  caps, and ladies their
handkerchiefs. The Queen's  graceful  deport-
ment was the  subject  of  general  comment; as
she  literally bowed  herself  out of that august
assembly, never turning  her  back  till  outside
the  door.  There  no  guards  were  needed; as
they left the Senate House a phalanx of a lov-
ing and devoted  people formed  the passage  of 
her egress.  Prince Albert wearing  the beauti-
ful academical robe  of black silk, heavily  em-
broidered  in  gold, with  cap and  tassel of the
same rich  materials;  the  Queen  wearing a
Honiton lace dress and veil, as she always wears
home  manufacture,  which  of  course includes
the richest  fabrics  of  her  Indian possessions,
passed down  smiling  and  bowing  to  all, the
happiest of  the  happy,  and  looking  more  of
heaven than earth! So  ends a chapter which
now is history.


