IN MEMORIAM.

	Benjamin Disraeli! Queen Victoria, desiring
to honor one who had proved himself a faithful
and efficient friend and servant, both to herself
and England, elevated him to the Peerage by
the title of Earl Beaconsfield; but Disraeli's the
household word by which the country will hand


down one of her faithful servants to posterity.
By that name he patiently and perseveringly
trod the road, step by step, to fame and honor,
until he stood at the right hand of his sovereign,
and next to her in authority.
	Over thirty years have passed since the papers
gave to the public the thrilling, impassioned,
fervid speeches of this marvelously gifted man!
and yet, withal, sound policy and common sense
were the basis of the same. There was a strong
opposition and party feeling existing against
him. What was the cause? Would men, sena-
tors, great men, stoop so low as to envy him? or
was it because the blood of Abraham flowed in
his veins? We have no time to trace out the
cause—suffice it to say it existed, and men in
that august assembly, when he first arose to ad-
dress them, forgot to be gentlemen, and actually
laughed him to scorn! thrice he arose, and they
rudely silenced him; then he sat down, and with
a quiet dignity saying the memorable words,
"Gentlemen, you will not hear me now, but the
time will come when you shall hear me!" His
prophetic nature made him calm; he knew his
plane was a rising one, and he had the charac-
teristic endurance of the royal line of Judah. He
verified Milton's superb assertion, "They also
serve who only stand and wait." He waited,
but never forgot to work; and at last came the
"hiring," and the wages with it, and the sup-
port and admiration of a large, influential part
of England, and the entire confidence and ap-
preciation of his sovereign, who often sent for
him for private conferences, and was no doubt
refreshed and strengthened for her arduous du-
ties by his bold, uncomprising policy, and by the
inimitable language in which he ever clothed
his ideas. His prophecy was now fulfilled, they
did hear him, and bowed the knee to him also,
for he was now Premier of England. Methinks
"they" heard him then! Yes, they heard him
gladly; his prophetic words were verified. His
last speech in the House of Lords, on Lord Lyt-
ton's motion with regard to Candahar, lacked
none of the vigor of other times; "it was spirit-
ed, frank, and had many touches of the old in-
extinguishable humor, which used to illuminate
the dullness of House of Commons debates like
flashes of summer lightning." And in his last
severe illness,he spent some of the intervals from
suffering in correcting, with the assistance of
Lord Barrington, that very speech; he seemed
anxious that it should go forth to the world as
correct as he could make it.
	Oh, Death! here is thy sting! This Palladium
of England, its Parliament, Constitution, Cabi-
net and Court, has passed away, and the coun-
try mourns her brilliant Statesman and her hon-
ored Patriot! We too have seen our great men
pass away, and we know how we mourned their
loss. When a luminary is extinguished, we
must feel the darkness!		H. T. K.


