JOURNEY TO TIBERIAS.

	Tuesday, Nov. 9. Left the Orphanage before
day-break, Mrs. Gilbert and our teacher,
Nasra, with a trusty man riding a mule. At
first it was very cold, but as the sun rose it
grew warmer, and was at last so hot that we
began to talk of the 9th of Nov. at home, and
wonder what people would think of it if they
could be suddenly transported into our places.
We passed Kep Henna, the supposed Cana of
Galilee, and went tramping on and on, having
settled down in an order that was regulated
not by our own wishes so much as by the pe-
culiarities or predilections of our animals. The
man leading the way, except when his mule,
which was young and untrained, backed into
us, threatening to upset us all, and only resum-
ing his place after an obstinate struggle; then
Mrs. Gilbert, because her mare would not keep
up unless some one was behind to whip it; then
I, because my whip was long enough to reach
Mrs. Gilbert's mare, and then Nasra, because
her horse, being ambitious and always seeking
to lead the procession, did not require any
whipping up.
	At 10.30 we alighted at Lubeya, under the
shade of some olive trees, and explored the
lunch basket in the silent endurance of the
heat, dust and flies, the only variety being that
every few minutes one of the horses would
stand stock still to aim a deliberate kick at
some one particular fly, that was more trying
to its patience than the rest. It is a weary
road along through the country, all around as
arid and desolate as it is possible to conceive,
but it is as certain as anything can be in this
land, that this very road was trodden by the
feet of the Blessed One whenever he would go
from Nazareth to the Sea of Galilee. It was

[Column 2]
no use trying to fancy the surroundings of that
time, they were certain to be very different
from the present. Every now and then we
met a lonely traveler, that reminded me of Ja-
cob: "With my staff I passed over this Jor-
dan;" or a family group that would have re-
called the flight into Egypt, only that the wife
was never riding, but mostly carrying a burden
almost as heavy as that of the donkey. After
six hours riding we saw the glint of water at
the foot of the hills we had been earnestly
watching; a few paces more, and the whole
lake lay before us. We could call up before
our mind's eye a few of the wondrous scenes it
had witnessed, and I was lost for a while in the
past, till the difficulties of the road recalled me
to the present. We had a descent of 1,000
feet to make, among the black, volcanic rocks
of this region that are such a contrast to the
glaring white limestone of Nazareth. We saw
a shepherd going before his flock of sheep, a
sufficiently rare sight for us to notice it—we
see hardly anything but goats generally. We
passed what they called the Mount of Beati-
tudes, and glanced from it to Safed, the city
set on a hill, which had been in view a great
part of the way. Arrived at Tiberias, we
sought the hospitality of the monks of the
convent, and were glad of an hour's rest before
the meal which they set about preparing for
us. An hour before sunset we went out to get
a sketch of the town. We have learned that
the first desideratum for this work is a quiet
spot, where children and beggars won't find
us, and this time we managed to get into such
a retired corner that we only had the company
of one woman. She had many questions to
ask Nasra about us, and when she had finished,
Nasra took her turn, found out that she was a
Moslem, and then tried to tell her what had
happened here to make this lake so interesting
to us. She went away saying, as they all do,
"God has given us one religion, and you an-
other; ours is good for us, yours for you." We
were glad to go to bed as soon as we had made
an agreement with the master of a boat for an
excursion the next morning to the rival Ca-
pernaum and Bethsaida. The mixture of lan-
guages everywhere is sometimes amusing, some-
times anything but that. Here the monks
talk German and Italian—I can deal with them,
but when the Arabs come in and complicate
matters; Nasra has to come to the rescue.
	Wednesday, Nov. 10. Boat ordered at day
break, but we could not get our breakfast to
start before seven. The boat was the rough-
est, most ramshackle old thing ever seen afloat;
there was no place to sit comfortably, and we
were perched up at the end with no rest for
our backs, and our feet dangling. The pros-
pect of this for six hours was not cheering,
and when somewhat later Mrs. Gilbert had an
attack of sea sickness, she asked me whether I
meant to give in this description, which I was
writing at the time, the sentimental or realistic
view of things; and certainly there are two
views of journeys in this country, very differ-
ent from one another. The present view is
mostly of intense discomfort, of the necessity
of bracing oneself up to endurance ad. lib.;
and of a certainty that you would never, under
any circumstances, do the same journey over
twice if you could help it. But this view
fades with time, and the memory only retains
the sentiments, which at that time were over-
powered by the physical experiences; such has
been the case to-day. I am finishing now at
the convent, and feel much more capable of
taking the aesthetic view than I did when I
wrote the first sheet in the boat.
	After three hours of such rowing as would
send an English oarsman into fits, which with
the help of a sail brought us to Sell-Hum, a
distance of perhaps four miles, we most gladly
went ashore; anything was good for a change,
though we only found heaps upon heaps of

[Column 3]
ruins—splendid columns, capital bases, which
on chipping we found to be of exquisitely
veined marble, interspersed among blocks of
the dark, volcanic rocks of the region. We
only stayed ten minutes, as the boatmen were
in a hurry for the first time since we started,
so we make a dash to get a bunch of oleanders
and anoluer plant, the only green things about
the place, and commence the return via Beth-
saida. Here there is a little life, for there is a
watermill turned by a stream from the interior,
and about it a few donkeys and men are stand-
ing; but beyond this there is nothing but ruins.
It is near noon, and still very hot, and poor
Nasra has had her turn at sea sickness, but I
am hoping that we shall get home before it
comes to my turn, although I have a headache
from yesterday's fatigue. At Khan Unizele
we saw the most picturesque piece of rock of
any we have passed. I remarked that it was
steep enough for the scene of the destruction
of the swine, and the boatman answered it was
called "the rock of the swine;" and this is con-
firmed by an Italian guide book. But I am
inclined to think that it was on the other side
of the lake. We do not land at Khan Uni-
zele, but what we can see of it decides the
question in our own minds that it is not Caper-
naum. Next we pass Magdala, and then we
come to Tiberias again, and land at 2.30, after
having been 7 1/2 hours on the lake, and never
wishing to be on it again. Dinner had been
ordered at one, and had been waiting since that
time; we were almost past doing justice to it,
but a cup of tea, manufactured with the help
of an Etna, sets us up, so that we order our
horses round and start again at four to the
south end of the lake. We don't get as far as
we wish, as our man says the places are dan-
gerous after dark. As we hesitate he says
somebody was killed here a little while ago.
This decides the question; so as we have no in-
tention of running risks, we turn back, getting
two little pencil sketches as we sit on our
horses, and re-enter the convent just at sunset.
After supper I write up the journal, Mrs.
Gilbert does some of the sketches, and Nasra
puts the flowers in the paper to dry. Horses
ordered for seven to-morrow.
	Nov. 11. We left Tiberias before seven; stopped
a little way above the town to get one more
sketch and commenced a long, weary climb to
gain the level, a long tramp, then another climb
to the top of Tabor. Extensive building going
on at the Latin convent here; fine mosaic pave-
ment of old cathedral lately discovered. To
bed early, but could not sleep, owing to barking
of dogs and a stampede among the animals fast-
ened just outside the door. Horses ordered for
seven.
	Nov. 12. Started before seven, walked first
part of the way, too steep to ride; found some
cyclamen already sprung up since rain. At
length, after a long tramp, we reach Nazareth.
