VISIT TO MORGAN.
	On Saturday morning, April 23, in company
with Pres.Eliza R. Snow Smith, we started for
Morgan to attend the Conference of Relief So-
cieties, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations.
The Conference was well attended, house crowded
with attentive listeners at each meeting.
	Mrs. Lydia Rich makes a most excellent Presi-
dent of Relief Societies of the Stake. She is
quite equal to the position and possesses genu-
ine ability, combined with humility, which
fits her for the important work. The reports of
branch orgainizations R.S. were very encourag-
ing. The Y. L. M. I. A. Stake organization is
presided over by Mrs. Jane Toomar, and seems
to be in a prosperous coudition. Mrs. Harriet
Welsh has charge of the Primary Associations
of Morgan Stake, which are in a flourishing con-
dition. At the Conference the reports from
all parts were excellent. In the North Morgan
branch, during one quarter, the children of the
P. A. donated 548 Sunday eggs; A motion was
made at the late Conference that the children
appropriate all their donations during the next
six months to emigrate an orphan child from
England. Mrs. Lydia Rich told the children
she would adopt the child and take it into her
own especial care. The child will certainly have
an excellent home and the best of training.
	We attended one R.S. meeting at North Mor-
gan, Mrs. Elizabeth Worlton presiding. There
were a large number of brethren as well as sis-
ters present.
	Pres. W.G. Smith and his Counselors, Patri-
arch Mc'Bride of Richfield, and several Bishops
and Elders attended the meetings of the sisters.
We returned home Tuesday morning, having
remained over night in Ogden. Sister Eliza did
a great deal of public speaking during the three
days we were absent, and enjoyed herself very
much. She has traveled through nearly all the
settlements of the Saints, and many of them
over and over again, and it is her delight to be
among the people and aid by her influence and
earnest labors to promote the interests of Zion.
	On Saturday evening, while at the residence
of Brother S. Francis, we were surprised by a
serenade of the string band, who, although only
lately in practise as a company, perform admir-
ably. We tender them our sincere thanks for
the sweet music and the compliment. We were
also serenaded by the brass band, while at Bro.
Toomar's, which is under the able management
of Bro. Bull, of Morgan. They played some
soul-stirring airs, and we also tender them our
grateful thanks for the honor.


