LIVERPOOL.

	First Annual Report of the Relief Society
in connection with the Liverpool Branch of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	On December 29, 1879, a number of the
sisters of the Liverpool Branch met at the
house of Elder Scott Anderson (Branch Presi-
dent). Elder William Budge, President of the
European Mission, and Elder James L. Bunt-
ing, President of the Liverpool Conference,
were present. President Bunting opened the
meeting with prayer, after which President
Budge delivered a very interesting and instruc-
tive address, fully explaining the work done by
Relief Societies in Zion, and their incalculable
value as an auxiliary agency in advancing the
work of God.
	Elder Bunting said he would be delighted if
the sisters could see their way to form such a
society; after which, on the motion of Elder
Anderson, the Society was duly formed. Sister
E. F. Johnson was appointed President, or-
dained to her office by President Budge; Sister
Bennet First Counselor, ordained by President
Bunting; Sister Anderson Second Counselor,
ordained by President Budge; Sister Mary Jane
Anderson Secretary, ordained by Elder Bunt-
ing.
	It was resolved to hold weekly meetings,
and at once to enter upon active work by vis-
iting every sister in the Branch; this was con-
tinued nearly the whole year, and a noble effort
was made to induce all to attend to their duties;
and some little relief was afforded to the very
poor. The amount at the disposal of the so-
ciety for the year was only $6.37; and of this,
$2.18 was paid for tracts, which were carefully
distributed from house to house; $3.13 was
given to the sick and poor, and 12 cents was
paid for a minute book, leaving 90 cents in the
hands of the Treasurer.
	In presenting briefly their first annual report
the Relief Society cannot adequately express
their gratitude to their Heavenly Father for
what little good they have been enabled to ac-
complish. They have had many difficulties to
encounter; they commenced with a member-
ship of eight, and during the year five were
added; of these three have emigrated, one has
left the city and one has apostatized. Most of
the members have pressing household duties to


peform, but there has been a willingness to per-
form any duty evinced by nearly all the mem-
bers, which must eventually result in much
good. Going forth in our womanly weakness,
but in the strength of Almighty God, we are
resolved to do our duty, realizing that our
Father has commanded us to cast our bread
upon the waters, promising that it shall return
after many days. Submitted in all Christian
love by
				E. F. JOHNSON, Pres't,
