WOMEN PHSYSICIANS.

	The Public Ledger, of Phil., has an editorial
entitled "The Doctor Crop," and states that
the medical institutions of that city have
turned out within one week 422 graduates. Of
this number nineteen are ladies, and it is wisely
remarked that women physicians have their
own province, and that "It is not they who in-
terfere with the masculine practitioners, as the
wisest of these now agree, but are aids, com-
plementary, and even essential helpmeets in
the proper advance of gynæcology."
	The same paper gives an account of the An

[Column 2]
nual Commencement of the Woman's Medical
College of Philadelphia, and speaks of the
valedictory of Prof. Rachel L. Bodley (Dean
of the College) as being "a valuable contribu-
tion to medical literature." "In this Dr. Bod-
ley made what is in many respects a new de-
parture for such occasions, her theme being an
exhibit to the new graduates of the work ac-
complished by their Alma Mater in the thirty
years of the existence of the college, as exhib-
ited in the careers of her 276 daughters sent
out as medical graduates during that time. To
enable herself to speak with precision, Dr.
Bodley sent to each of the 244 surving gradu-
ates (thirty-two had died in the thirty years) a
circular containing eight questions, to which
she solicited answers. The questions were de-
signed to cover the prominent features in the
experience of the medical women graduated
by the college, in the practice of their life-
work—its professional character, its pecuniary
rewards, its social status, its teaching work, its
membership in medical societies, and finally
that important question in Sociology touching
the influence of the study and practice of medi-
cine upon woman's relations as wife and
mother. Of the 244 surviving graduates, an-
swers were received from 181, and of this num-
ber 151 are in active practice as doctors; the
remaining thirty having given up for various
reasons, among which are domestic duties, phi-
lanthropic work, other business, poor health,
retired old age, and in some instances no rea-
son was assigned. The rest of this interesting
story is given in Prof. Bodley's own words."
The second question, relating to the predomi-
nating character of the medical practice of
those actively engaged, is answered as gynæco-
logical predominating; showing that woman's
greatest work is among women.
	The third question, concerning the social
status of the woman physician, brings forth
encouraging replies, for out of 151 who answer
this question, 144 report cordial recognition.
	To the fourth interrogation fifty-nine are en-
gaged either in hospitals, asylums or medical
schools.
	The fifth question relates to the monetary
value of the medical practice per year, and is
answered by seventy-six ladies. The average
income is found to be $2,907.30 each.
	Question sixth relates to the work for which
woman is pre-eminenily fitted, that of medical
teacher; fifty-four answer this question affirma-
tively. Among these are professors and teach-
ers in the medical schools of Philadelphia,
New York and Chicago.
	The seventh interesting question relates to
their membership in medical societies. Sixty-
six reply in the affirmative. "The professional
ability of many of these ladies has been recog-
nized by election to membership in more than
one State or local medical organization. Sev-
enty-three different medical societies in all
throughout the United-States, have thus hon-
ored women."
	The Ledger speaks of the eighth and last
question as "the curious question," which is
worded thus: "What influence has the study
and practice of medicine had upon your do-
mestic relations as wife and mother?" Prof.
Bodley here lets the statistics speak for them-
selves. "The answers ot the fifty married
ladies who respond to this question tabulate as
follows: Influence, favorable, 43; not entirely
favorable, 6; unfavorable, 1.
	"The song of domestic life,as I have listened
with ear attent, has been sung in no minor
key. In the melody (as the tabulated state-
ment shows) are a few discordant notes, but
these are such that a master might throw in to
enhance the harmony of his strain."
	The Professor quotes in full a number of the
answers to the last question; we will cite but
two, those of our two Utah lady graduates of
that institution. "As a wife, my duties have

[Column 3]
never been interfered with; as a mother, I have
been incalculably benefitted." "My practical
experience has demonstrated what my student
life indicated, that professional and domestic
duties are not incompatible.		E. R. S.


