[Vol40 | April 1953 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: From Far]

I am not particular about which article or story—each is best in its turn, though I do especially enjoy the visits of others on the last page —'"From Near and Far." I cannot remember when my mother did not have the Magazine. She served as an agent for many years and sent the Magazine to me soon after my marriage and I, in turn, made a birthday gift of it to my married daughter. My boys enjoy every issue of the Magazine, and to me it is a true friend in a lonely time when I must spend most of my time in bed with a heart ailment. —Mtrs. 'Thomas Menlove Payson, Utah Page 280 I have received many letters and phone calls regarding my story "The Summer Kitchen" (January 1953), telling me how many memories it brought to people of the things that used to be. I am glad it brought enjoyment and seemed so true, for, while I made up the plot, the pictures were true. I love the Magazine and am always happy to read. _ —DMary C. Martineau Pocatello, Idaho Something nice to pass on. Our boy Jimmy, eleven years old, memorized and recited today before his reading class Sylvia Probst Young's poem "Goodbye to Her Son" (January 1953, second prize poem, page 16). His teacher was so impressed that she had him recite it in five different classes. She stated that it was the most beautiful Lincoln poem she had ever heard.
These are my sentiments also. All the teachers requested a copy. Could 'you please pass this lovely praise and good news on to Sister Young. I'm sure it would make her very happy. Oh, the joy and good things that come to us through The Relief Society Magazine. It is priceless.
Jimmy is the only Latter- "day Saint boy in his school. —Florence N. Shaffer Cedar Rapids, Iowa I wish to express the very great pleasure I obtain from reading the Magazine. I find many things which give me pleasure and inspiration and the material is a fine source for spiritual talks that all of us are often called upon to make. I hope that I shall be able to bring these fine messages into more homes in our ward through my work as Magazine representative. —Emma Jane Clark La Crescenta, California I hate to miss even one of the Magazine. It is so wonderful and has been an inspiration to me ever since I joined the Relief Society when I was only twenty years old, forty-four years ago. —Mrs. Mary C. Evans Monticello, Utah A BETTER HOME = GARDEN ——~© CAN BE YOURS ——— ==.