[Vol40 | April 1953 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The National Council of]

Beyond her curtained eyes her soul must see The qualities of courage, faith, and cheer, And loveliness of life's immensity. The National Council of Women President Belle S.
Spafford review of the history of Relief Society leaves one deeply impressed with the foresight, the courage, the judgment, and the progressive action of our early-day leaders.
Imbued with the spirit of the gospel, eager to bring about righteousness and the well-being of their fellows, counseled and directed in their activities by the Priesthood, they not only advanced the cause of Relief Society, but they stepped to the fore in such fields as nursing, medicine, industry, and the arts, winning for themselves a_ place among the noteworthy.
They early identified themselves with national movements among women of the United States, foremost of which was the suffrage movement. The women of Utah, having been granted the right to vote in 1870, and having enjoyed the religious vote from the founding of the Church, had deep-seated feelings with regard to national suffrage. As early as 1879 they sent delegates East to attend a women's convention.
From that time Latter-day Saint women regularly attended the national suffrage conventions. In 1888 a council was called at Washington, D. C. By the National Woman's Suffrage Association to represent all nationally organized work by women in this and other lands. Relief Society was represented.
This meeting adopted the plan of forming a permanent International Council of Women and a permanent National Council of Women.
Three years later, in 1891, at the first triennial meeting of the Page 216
National Council of Women of the United States, with the advice of President Wilford Woodruff, Relief Society became a charter member of the National Council of Women.
This affiliation, entered into by our early-day leaders, has continued through the years, and the society is active today in the affairs of the Council.
While national suffrage has long since: been won, other worthy causes have held the interest and enlisted the support of the Council, perpetuating it for more than sixty years.
Since its inception, the Council has conducted biennial meetings (except during the war years), to which member organizations have sent delegates. The most recent biennial meeting was held in New York City on October 16, 17, and 18, 1952. President Belle S.
Spafford and Counselor Velma N: Si- | monsen represented Relief Society. At the opening session, Mrs. Helen Evans, Council President, spoke warmly of the Council, its purposes and accomplishments. She expressed a strong faith in its potential for good in the present-day world. She referred to it as a glorious ideal and declared the ideal of organized women uniting for the common good would always persist and prove a mighty bulwark for defense of Christian ideals and the Golden Rule. ~ The Preamble of the Constitution of the Council, written by its founders in 1888, is the active principle which guides the work today: THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN We, women of the United States, sincerely believing that the best good of our homes and nation will be advanced by our own greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an organized movement of women will best conserve the highest good of the family and the State, do hereby band ourselves together in a confederation of workers committed to the overthrow of all forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the application of the Golden Rule to society, custom and law. The 1952 meetings brought together trained, widely-experienced, serious-minded women whose desire to work toward a better world, and whose courage in attacking what they regarded as evil were very evident. A spiritual quality pervaded the meetings. President Spafford gave the opening prayer, and each session thereafter of the three-day meet, including each luncheon session, was begun with prayer. THE general problems with which the women were concerned were: declining moral standards; the breakdown in home and family life; the lack of religion and fundamental knowledge of truths in the family; the need to strengthen the spiritual life of the nation with less emphasis upon material things; the need for the educational system to be more effective in the training of children; and the failure of society in its responsibility to youth.
Problems such as the need for better programs for the aged and the mentally ill were considered.
Throughout the entire conference, there was evidence of pronounced concern over the devastating and spreading influence of Communism and the growing strength of Communist women's organizations. The morning sessions were busi- 217 ness sessions at which such matters as the financial program of the Council and its need for more adequate offices were considered. A most enlightening report, showing the wide scope of interests and varied activities of the Council during the preceding two-year period was given by President Evans.
Reports were also given by standing committees and member organizations. It was with a deep sense of appreciation for the accomplishments of the sisters of Relief Society that President Spafford reported the work of Relief Society.
Following is the slate of officers elected for the biennium 1952-54: President—Mrs. Charlotte Leyden ist Vice-President—Mrs. C. Fred Rau 2d Vice-President—Mrs. Belle Spafford 3d Vice-President—Mrs. Geneva Valentine 4th Vice-President—Miss Helen Estelle Corresponding Secretary—Mrs. Helen M. Fowler Assistant Corresponding Secretary— Mrs. Carlos Sandoval Recording Secretary—Mrs. Luella S. Laudin Assistant Recording Secretary— Mrs. W. C. Best Treasurer—Mrs. Bessie Payne Assistant 'Treasurer—Mrs. Evelyn Rafter The first luncheon meeting was addressed by Mr. Laird Archer, Foreign Director of the Near East Foundation in Athens. Mr.
Archer made a brilliant analysis of the present situation in Iraq, Iran, Syria, and 'Turkey. The second luncheon meeting, conducted by President Spafford, was addressed by Dr. George N. Shuster, President of Hunter College. His subject was "National Issues in a World in Turmoil." He 218 pointed out that the United States represents one pole of the world, and the other is represented by the Russians. He said this is a time when intellectual freedom is constantly under inspection and interrogation.
America needs women to give courage and support to those leading the intellectual hand of this country; women have begun to capture the intellectual leadership and a great deal is expected of them. The third luncheon meeting honored pioneers of the Council, among them our own beloved former president, Amy Brown Lyman. Mrs. Anita Pollitzer paid tribute to Mrs.
Lyman as a distinguished representative of Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints and as an able leader in promoting the work of the Council in early days. She cited many facets of the life of Mrs. Lyman, referring to her as a "gifted" woman. AFTERNOON sessions were in the form of round-table discussions.
Eminent authorities participated on the panels. In the first round-table, ""he Defense of Moral and Social Values," the premise was accepted that moral right is that which is true, ethically good and proper and in conformity with Christian moral law.
They declared that what was morally right must remain right regardless of changing times and circumstances— right is immutable. 'They deplored the growing moral lassitude on the part of people generally; the increasing tendency to accept as expedient in public life things we personally condemn in private life, such as slander, graft, dishonesty, and abuse  of confidence and trust. 'They declared that national sensitiveness appears to have been dulled into a calm acceptance of such evils without a seeming awareness of the demoralizing effect upon the nation.
There was a feeling that permeating through our entire social strata is a growing disregard for the fundamental virtue of integrity. Sex immorality and the increasing use of narcotics by the youth of the nation evoked a strong plea for preventive measures as well as corrective measures in dealing with these evils. In the second round-table, "The Defense of Physical and Environmental Values," panel members decided that "social consciousness with well-directed action" seems the way to meet the physical and environmental values in a world in turmoil. Our aging population, the increase in mental health disorders, and other such growing community problems were considered in detail, with concrete examples given of what could and should be done. It was agreed that there is no arbitrary chronological age at which people become old and unfit to work; and a program which would involve persuading employers to give work to people as long as they have productive capacity would be worthwhile. In the field of mental health, "mental parolees" and a program for their benefit were discussed. It was recognized that housing is a universal problem since the home is the nucleus of good family life. The International Council of Women has already taken a strong stand on this subject. The importance of music, literature, and art in the development of children THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN and as hobbies for older people, affording opportunity for creation and expression, was brought out forcibly in this round-table. The third round-table, "The Defense of Socio-Economic Values," was keynoted by Miss Helen Estelle of the Women's Christian Temperance Union, pointing out that "it is not the world that is in turmoil, but the.
People in it." The challenge to women today is: What can they do as women to stabilize social and economic principles?
Social values of the trasted with those of today. It was pointed out that when the nation was young and human beings themselves were the sole instruments of communication, selfreliance was a necessity and teamwork, alone, made it possible for people to obtain the things in which they believed.
This in turn demanded good human relations for the common welfare. The home was related to world human relations. It was the opinion of panel members that no home is good unless its human relations are good.
First comes a good husbandand-wife relationship; next, a good parent-and-child relationship. The good home was declared to be the "key" to a good society The economic status of the family as it affects its well-being was also considered in this round-table.
Women were urged to concern themselves about private and public debt, about taxes, and about "spending binges," particularly of young couples who buy on time payments, thus inviting many problems and creating for themselves many unnecessary difficulties.
Past were con-.
Fundamental human 219 HE need for women's organizations in the United States to be alert to propaganda of the European Communist's women's organizations was shown in reports of both standing committees and member organizations.
Impressive indeed were the remarks of the representatives of the Free Ukranian Women of the United States and the Free Czechoslovakian Women of the United States, both new member organizations of the Council.
Council delegates were given a vivid picture of conditions behind the Iron Curtain.
Speakers deplored the fact that in the Twentieth Century women behind the Iron Curtain are subject to terror and slavery that break up homes and violate every right. The Council remembered with gratitude and admiration the many years of service and co-operation of the now abolished National Council of Women of Czechoslovakia and other countries behind the Iron Curtain.
Many special courtesies were extended the Relief Society delegates both during and outside meeting hours. That Relief Society is held in high esteem by members of the Council, there is no doubt.
That the work of the women of our Church is appreciated is acknowledged without question. Our many years of identification with the Council have brought understanding and friendship. Relief Society women have been able to contribute to the Council and benefit from it. The affiliation entered into by our early-day leaders more than sixty years ago continues today a fruitful association. Ward Linton Page
220 FREESIAS Gf You Would Remember Alberta H. Christensen Old-fashioned flowers keep love's memories Too close for comfort, if the heart would fling Its dreaming to the wind.
Around them cling Forgotten words; a trysting shadow flees Evasively but leaves its fragrant breath. So do not near the budding four-o'clocks Or touch the larkspur bed; the stalwart phlox Know lovers' vows that should be kept till death. But if you would remember—bare your grief Within a garden when the moonflower closes.
Remembrance wakens here where yellow roses Lift to the wind, with healing past belief; The laggard pulse will quicken at the sight Of the sweet-scented freesia, waxen-white! The Bitter Cup Angelyn W. Wadley UTSIDE, the rain had settled () into a dismal gray drizzle. Inside, was warmth and comfort. It was an afternoon when a woman could relax over a good book or a bit of handwork, if she didn't have more pressing duties. But Valerie didn't feel like reading or sewing. She sat by the window, nervously drumming her fingers on the chair arm. She glanced across the room at her mother, quietly busy over the mending basket.
Even her fouryear-old daughter Pamela seemed to have accepted the fact of a rainy day, and was happily occupied at her little table.
Valerie wondered why, in such a pleasant atmosphere, she felt so irritable and discontented. She had planned on visiting Suzanne this afternoon and had decided that she would go on the bus— alone.
That decision had required a good bit of determination.
Perhaps this restlessness was caused by her conscience, lashing at her for her weakness in feeling glad the weather provided such a good excuse to postpone going to see Suzanne. It was difficult to put a mental finger on the exact reason for her dread of this visit. Was it the effort of getting there, or the emotional strain of seeing someone else in trouble? Or was this shrinking from anything out of her usual routine merely a mental habit developed by staying at home so long? Her friends kept telling her she should get out more, and she resented it. 'They didn't know what it was like to feel so conspicuously different.
Valerie didn't know quite how, but she felt she could help Suzanne a little.
Surely out of her own experience, she should have distilled some essence of philosophy worth sharing with Suzanne. Suddenly Valerie picked up her crutches and started for her room.
Walking was awkward and difficult, with the metal brace on her right leg adding both weight and ungainliness. But by now she could walk well enough to take her reasonable distances. "I don't see why this little rain should change my plans. I'm going to get ready and catch the next bus," Valerie suddenly resolved aloud. Her mother looked up, a little startled. "The sidewalk is wet and might be slippery. Wouldn't it be best to wait? I'm sure they won't expect you on such a gloomy day." "Perhaps, on such a gloomy day, it will do more good for me to go," Valerie answered, but she didn't explain that she was thinking of good for herself, not Suzanne, nor that the gloom she was trying to conquer was not that caused by the - weather, but by this growing, gnawing, restlessness inside herself. Her mother put down her mending and followed to offer any assistance she might need. "T don't think Suzanne will care particularly about seeing me. I Page 22] 222 hardly know her," Valerie explained. "But I'm sure her mother will appreciate my coming, and ['ve loved Mrs.
Montrose ever since I was a little girl and she was my Sunday School teacher." "My heart aches for both of them," her mother replied. "Please give them my best wishes. Are you sure you don't want Ime to go with you? We could take Pam." "Don't worry about me, I'll manage fine. It's high time I began to develop some independence again." Her mother didn't try further to dissuade her, but a little later, held the door open while she kissed Pam goodbye and started down the path. At the sidewalk, Valerie turned and waved at the two in the doorway.