forget the time or events of his infinite sacrifice and atonement. The Lamanite prophet, Samuel, had earlier announced from the walls of Zarahemla the signs which would occur on this the American continent at Christ's death, for which prophecy the wicked sought his life. The great happenings prophesied of, took place during the three hours the Savior was on the cross— the unforgettable scenes of destruction and sorrow, with darkness continuing for the space of three days. When this period of terror and destruction had ended, all the inhabitants of the land heard the voice of God speaking from the heavens, explaining the reason for the destruction of cities and multitudes of people. Later, the Book of Mormon account records 2500 people were gathered together about the temple in the land of Bountiful discussing the phenomenal changes and signs that had taken place among them, when they again heard a voice from heaven. 'The voice spoke three times before they determined its source. Then they heard these words, "Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name— hear ye him" (3
Nephi 11:7). Looking toward the heavens, they beheld a man descending earthward Page 211 212 clothed in a white robe, who presently stood in their midst. 'The people were amazed and frightened, supposing the heavenly Being to be an angel of God. We can imagine their astonishment and joy when he stretched forth his hand and announced to them this startling information: Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world, And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning (3
Nephi 11:10-11). What a glorious pronouncement! Here, standing before them in the flesh, was the crucified, resurrected. Lord, of whom their prophets had spoken. What a marvelous privilege and blessing for them! 'They had been promised this visit, for they were part of the other sheep, referred to by the Savior while ministering in Jerusalem, whom he must visit, and who were to hear his voice, that there might be one fold and one shepherd. HIS glorious appearance of the Savior supports scriptures that God is no respecter of persons, but in every nation whosoever serves him in righteousness is accepted of him.. This assembled group were faithful people of the Lord, called together by their leader Nephi in anticipation of this honored visit by the Son of God. They were actual individual witnesses of the Lord in his resurrected, glorified state, and  thus qualified to bear witness not only among the Nephite and Lamanite people, but also to all people of the world to whom The Book of Mormon testifies. He had such great love for them that he gave them a testimony of himself in such an impressive manner that they would always remember his marvelous appearance with great joy and faith, and be convinced that he was the resurrected Christ, their Redeemer and God. To leave no doubt in their minds he invited them thus: Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of Israel, and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the world (3
Nephi 11:14). Mormon considered this majestic visit of the Savior important to the - sacred record he was abridging to speak from the dust to the Jews and Gentiles of the latter days. The story is beautifully written and given great emphasis. After the Savior's invitation for the people to know for themselves, Mormon records: And it came to pass that the multitude went forth, and thrust their hands into his side, and did feel the prints of the nails in his hands and in his feet; and this they did do, going forth one by one until they had all gone forth, and did see with their eyes and did feel with their hands, and did know of a surety and did bear record, that it was he, of whom it was written by the prophets, that should come (3