[Vol40 | April 1953 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: The Bitter Cup | Author: Angelyn W. Wadley 221 Old Bias by Ruth Moody Ostegar 230 No Need to Worry by Velma D. Cloward 241 The Lasting Joys by Sylvia Probst Young]
bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning (3
Nephi 11:10-11). What a glorious pronouncement! Here, standing before them in the flesh, was the crucified, resurrected. Lord, of whom their prophets had spoken. What a marvelous privilege and blessing for them! 'They had been promised this visit, for they were part of the other sheep, referred to by the Savior while ministering in Jerusalem, whom he must visit, and who were to hear his voice, that there might be one fold and one shepherd. HIS glorious appearance of the Savior supports scriptures that God is no respecter of persons, but in every nation whosoever serves him in righteousness is accepted of him.. This assembled group were faithful people of the Lord, called together by their leader Nephi in anticipation of this honored visit by the Son of God. They were actual individual witnesses of the Lord in his resurrected, glorified state, and  thus qualified to bear witness not only among the Nephite and Lamanite people, but also to all people of the world to whom The Book of Mormon testifies. He had such great love for them that he gave them a testimony of himself in such an impressive manner that they would always remember his marvelous appearance with great joy and faith, and be convinced that he was the resurrected Christ, their Redeemer and God. To leave no doubt in their minds he invited them thus: Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of Israel, and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the world (3
Nephi 11:14). Mormon considered this majestic visit of the Savior important to the - sacred record he was abridging to speak from the dust to the Jews and Gentiles of the latter days. The story is