[Vol40 | April 1953 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: THE COVER: Tulips, Photograph | Author: Ward Linton. FRONTISPIECE: "Christ and the Samaritan Woman," Photograph from a Painting by Carl Bloch, Camera Clix, New York.]
The  Cover:  "Yucca  Blossoms,"  Photograph  by  Josef  Mucnch 
Frontispiece:  "Blossom time  Near  Los  Altos,  California/' 
Photograph  by  JeflF  Thomson 
Cover  Design  by  Evan  Jensen

cfrom   I  Lear  and  CJc 
ar 
I  express  my  thanks  and  appreciation  for 
the  high  quality  material  offered  in  our 
Keliei  Society  Magazine.  I  live  in  the  mis- 
sion field  and  am  so  proud  to  display  our 
Magazine  and  talk  with  non-member 
friends  about  it.  I  have  very  much  en- 
joyed the  series  of  articles  on  early  Ameri- 
can Glass  (by  Alberta  H.  Christensen). 
Both  the  history  and  the  pictures  are  most 
interesting.  Please  publish  more  articles 
of  this  sort  to  help  educate  the  sisters  to 
appreciate  more  fully  this  art.  I  also  want 
to  thank  you  for  the  wonderful  lessons. 
—Mrs.  Warren  F.  Wilhite 
North  Little  Rock,  Arkansas 
This  morning  I  read  the  fine  editorial 
in  the  March  number  of  The  Relief  So- 
ciety Magazine  (Dwight  D.  Eisenhower 
Inaugurated  President  of  the  United 
States)  and  am  very  thrilled  with  it.  You 
have  said  the  very  things  I  wanted  to  say, 
and  given  the  exact  information  I  need  to 
have,  to  enter  in  our  Stake  Relief  Society 
History. 
— Clara  Home  Park 
San  Mateo,  California 
After  reading  the  article  ''Fisher  Tow- 
ers'' in  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  for 
August  1952,  by  Celia  Luce,  I  visited  the 
area  which  she  so  vividly  described  and 
found  a  remarkable  example  of  nature's 
sculpture  work  in  colors  of  great  beauty, 
and  turrets  and  towers  of  majestic  height, 
revealing  more  of  the  wonders  of  the 
Colorado  River  country. 
— ^Victor  J.  Nelson 
Holladay,  Utah 
The  entire  May  Magazine  is  packed 
with  beauty  and  worth  from  the  daffodils 
(frontispiece  photograph)  —  symbols  of 
the  resurrection  of  spring,  to  the  last  page. 
My  heart  sings  its  gratitude.  I  must  also 
mention  the  beauty  of  concept  and 
imagery  in  **A  Tribute  to  Visiting  Teach- 
ers" (frontispiece  poem  by  Alberta  H. 
Christensen).  In  review,  on  the  film  of 
my  mind,  I  saw  my  own  sainted  mother 
driving  her  horse  and  buggy.  I  remem- 
bered all  of  the  women  who  have  left 
their  blessing  in  my  home. 
— Mabel  Law  Atkinson 
Dayton,  Idaho 
The  Magazine  is  simply  wonderful.  I 
love  every  issue.  Whenever  it  arrives  I 
put  it  on  my  bedside  table  and  read  it  as 
my  time  and  strength  will  permit  each 
night  until  I  have  read  it  from  cover  to 
cover.  When  we  visited  my  grandmoth- 
er, Mrs.  Emma  J.  Jesperson,  in  Duchesne, 
Utah,  last  year,  we  found  her  reading  The 
Relief  Society  Magazine.  She  was  then 
ninety  years  old. 
— Mrs.  Eugene  K.  Mangum, 
Casa  Grande,  Arizona 
I  have  just  started  receiving  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine  and  enjoy  it  very  much. 
My  mother  subscribed  to  it  for  me,  and 
I  certainly  appreciate  and  enjoy  it  very 
much.  The  articles  on  homemaking  are 
very  helpful  to  me,  since  I  have  not  been 
married  very  long  and  just  have  a  new 
son. 
— Moena  Stonehocker 
Moscow,  Idaho 
It  took  missing  one  number  to  awaken 
me  to  how  much  the  Magazine  means  in 
our  home.  We  are  lost  without  it.  I 
enjoy  the  poetry  and  the  wholesome  fic- 
tion as  well  as  the  messages  of  our  lead- 
ers and  the  lesson  material.  With  six 
small  children,  and  living  eight  miles  from 
meetings,  on  a  road  not  used  often  and 
not  in  good  repair,  the  Magazine  often  has 
to  substitute  for  Relief  Society  meetings. 
I  need  and  use  the  household  helps  in 
trying  to  be  a  better  wife  and  mother. 
May  God  bless  you  in  your  continued 
good  work  of  putting  out  such  a  fine 
Magazine. — Rachel  Woodruff 
Grassy  Lake,  Alberta,  Canada 
The  series  of  articles  on  "Adventure  in 
Glass"  by  Alberta  H.  Christensen  were  a 
fine  contribution  to  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine.  This  came  home  definitely 
when  I  heard  a  talk  on  "Old  Glass"  at 
the  University.  This  talk  was  more  in- 
teresting and  meant  much  more  after  read- 
ing the  articles  by  Mrs.  Christensen.  I 
appreciate  such  informative  articles  and 
would  like  to  see  more  of  this  type. 
— Ahce  T.  Nelson 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Page  282

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Monthly  Publication  of  the  Relief  Society  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
REUEF  SOCIETY  GENERAL  BOARD 
Belle  S.  Spafford    -------  President 
Marianne  C.  Sharp  .  -  -  .  .  First-Counselor