IN MEMORY OF 1847. O come with me a little way — We'll turn time's pages back again, And gaze as at a long lost scroll. (Tis scarcely three-score years and ten). Dost see that stretch of sage-brush land? How grim, forbidding it appears; How dead and changeless it must be, Deserted lain, for countless years. And note the soil, the hard baked clay, '"Twas never done, 'twill never be." "It can't be done," the doubters say. Their leaders answer, "Wait and see." Now look again, the scene is changed, And far and near on every side The valley teeming with full life Where Israel's chosen ones reside. Gone are those dauntless pioneers 'Who builded better than they knew. Their children reap with love and tears, Yet, let us hope, with hearts as true. Hazel Washburn. THE Relief Society Magazine 

JULY 1917 (Vol. IV No. 7)
CONTENTS:

In Memory of 1847 Hazel Washburn 361  
Epistle to the Relief Society Concerning these War Times 363  
First Winter in Salt Lake City, 1847 Diantha Lowry Reid 366  
What Women Can Do in Canning 369  
Mothers in Israel Mary A. S. Winters 371  
Object, Origin and Destiny of Women Prest. John Taylor 377  
Are We Wise? Grace Jacobson 379  
Mother Entertains Diantha Parrish 380  
How to Make a Homemade Fireless Cooker 386  
The Iceless Refrigerator 387  
Home Entertainments Morag 388  
President Joseph F. Smith on Card Playing 390  
Current Topics James H. Anderson 392  
Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde 395  
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 399  
Editorial 405  
Guide Lessons 409  

ADVERTISERS:

AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH, Logan  
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City  
CONSOLIDATED WAGON & MACHINE CO., Salt Lake City  
CO-OP. FURNITURE CO., Salt Lake City  
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City  
DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City  
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City  
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City  
MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City  
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City  
OREGON SHORT LINE RAILWAY, Salt Lake City  
PEMBROKE STATIONERY CO., 22 E. Broadway  
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 S. Main  
STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City  
SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J., Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City  
SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City  
THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City  
TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257 E. First So. St., Salt Lake City  
UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City, Utah  
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City  
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE, by Willard Done  
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City  

IN MEMORY OF 1847.  
O come with me a little way —  
We'll turn time's pages back again,  
And gaze as at a long lost scroll.  
(Tis scarcely three-score years and ten).  
Dost see that stretch of sage-brush land?  
How grim, forbidding it appears;  
How dead and changeless it must be,  
Deserted lain, for countless years.  
And note the soil, the hard backed clay,  
'"Twas never done, 'twill never be."  
"It can't be done," the doubters say.  
Their leaders answer, "Wait and see."  
Now look again, the scene is changed,  
And far and near on every side  
The valley teeming with full life  
Where Israel's chosen ones reside.  
Gone are those dauntless pioneers  
'Who builded better than they knew.  
Their children reap with love and tears,  
Yet, let us hope, with hearts as true.  
Hazel Washburn.  

Vol. IV. JULY, 1917. No. 7.  
Epistle to the Relief Society Concerning these War Times.  
Dear Sisters: It is natural that our hearts and emotions are stirred to the utmost in this crucial time of the world's history. At present our country is at war with another great and powerful nation. We would invite your strict attention to the remarks made by President Joseph F. Smith in our last Conference: "the spirit which the latter-day saints should manifest IN WAR. "Speaking of the possibility of conflict, of war, I exhort my friends, the people of our country, especially in this intermountain region, to maintain above all other things the spirit of humanity, of love, and of peace-making, that even though they may be called into action they will not demolish, override and destroy the principles which we believe in, which we have tried to inculcate, and which we are exhorted to maintain; peace and good will toward all mankind, though we may be brought into action with the enlist, academy. I want to the say country whose services to the may Latter-day require, Saints who they that when may become soldiers of the State and of the Nation that they will not forget that they are also soldiers of the Cross, that they are ministers of life and not of death; and when they go forth, they may go forth in the spirit of defending the liberties of mankind rather than for the purpose of destroying the enemy. If we could convert them to peaceful ways and to the love of peace without destroying them, we would become saviors of men. And it is abominable that men who engage in the great and grand and necessary duty of protecting and guarding our Nation from the encroachments of wicked enemies, cruel and destructive foes, should not maintain among themselves lives of honor, virtue, purity and of immunity from sin and crime of every kind. It is a disgraceful thought that a man to become a soldier should become a rake and abandon himself to crime and wickedness. Let RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the soldiers that go out from Utah be and remain men of honor. And when they are called obey the call, and manfully meet the duty, the dangers, or the labor, that may be required of them, or that they may be set to do; but to do it with an eye single to the accomplishment of the good that is aimed to be accomplished, and not with the blood-thirsty desire to kill and destroy." If our sons are called to go to the front, it is in this spirit that we want them to accept the call, and we shall remain at home in faith and with courage that they shall be preserved in life or in death in the faith of the gospel." 'We urgently advise all our sisters to keep the even tenor of their ways, making homes clean, comfortable and peaceful; administer in the spirit of love and patience to your husbands and to your children; guard the little ones; do not permit them to imbibe the spirit of intolerance or hatred to any nation or to any people; keep firearms out of their hands; do not allow them to play at war nor to find amusement in imitating death in battle; inculcate the spirit of loyalty to country and flag, but help them to feel that they are soldiers of the Cross and that if they must needs take up arms in the defense of liberty, of country and homes they shall do so without rancor or bitterness. Avoid all discussions of a political and war-time nature in your meetings and in the homes. Instruct teachers not to enter into discussions concerning the war, especially in homes where naturalized foreigners live. Teach the peaceable things of the kingdom. Keep cool; cultivate the spirit of calmness, love and peace. Do not lose your head, for a distracted person has neither sense nor sanity. Look after the needy more diligently than ever. In these times of raised prices and inflated food values we fear that there are those who may suffer in silence for want of a helping hand. Your duty lies first to these in your locality. Remember the aged and care for the orphans and widows. So long have the women of this Society been trained in the kindly virtues of generosity and noble charity that we have little fear concerning your attitude in this crisis. Our only fear is least some of our more generous members allow themselves to become over-zealous and over-enthusiastic, thus wasting strength, time and means. Many questions come to us concerning our attitude towards national and local patriotic organizations. The General Board have appointed Williams as chairman a "War Relief of that Committee, with All Committee. Mrs. Clarissa Smithour efforts to assist with means, with clothing, or food supplies, indeed any and every phase of loyal assistance to our government, will be placed under the direct charge of this committee. Proper instructions, with all necessary details will be forwarded in good time to our stake presidents. Meanwhile, the important thing is to be patient EPISTLE TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY. and calm. We don't want to knit up quantities of wristers and socks which may prove unsatisfactory or unnecessary, because of haste and lack of concerted action. When we move, we want to move as a solid unit. This is our greatest world opportunity to prove the superiority of our methods, our ideals and our long training. We have long been told we should lead the world let us not forget that leaders are wise leaders are never stampeded, leaders are obedient to law. Above all, we want to so clarify our plans and unify our action that whatever we accomplish shall glorify this Society and the Church through supreme efficiency and concerted action. Be assured that the woman who plants and reaps this year, who saves and economizes, is rendering her country her greatest possible service. An army travels on its stomach. Potatoes are needed more than wristers, beans more than socks. Millions of city women can and will knit for the soldiers and sailors, but only women in agricultural districts may help to avert the famine and want which is likely to sweep the whole world. We are gratified to notice in the telegraphic dispatches that the Woman's National Defense Committee, appointed by President Wilson, of which Dr. Anna Howard Shaw is president, and which organization stands at the head of all the societies, clubs, and associations of women in the United States, named Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams as Utah chairman. We rejoice in the enlarged opportunity this offers, and feel sure that results will prove to the headquarters in Washington, as well as to our own members, the wisdom of this choice. Mrs. Janette A. Hyde has also been chosen by the Governor to act upon the Utah State Food Conservation Committee. This action permits the wider scope of our associations with the Agricultural College at Logan and with the food question generally throughout the State. Our Committee have all plans matured for demonstrations in canning and drying vegetables and fruits, to be held in every stake during the summer season. In all our labors, however, we desire to keep closely together, under the banner of the Relief Society, not diverting our resources or scattering our energies by joining with this and that movement and organization. There is plenty of scope and opportunity for every gift, talent, and effort of the women of this people in the Relief Society, and we would always invite your loyal devotion to the interests and objects of this great organization. OUR MISSION IS TO HELP THE OPPRESSED AND NEEDY. Prest. Smith said further: "Charity, or love, is the greatest principle in existence. If we can lend a "helping hand to the oppressed, if we can aid those who are despondent and in sorrow, if we can uplift and ameliorate RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the condition of mankind, it is our mission to do it. it is an essential part of our religion to do it. And I say to our friends present that we have an organization in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that is perfect in its operation, by which we may call today to almost the whole Church, for aid, and tomorrow we will receive returns with the generous contributions that are freely given for a good cause, and it will cost nobody a cent. Every dime contributed for the benefit of the poor goes to the poor, and is not consumed by charitable organizations, who collect and handle means intended for the poor, and are paid for their services, thus absorbing a large percentage of the means contributed for the benefit of the poor, by those who are not poor. I wish to announce that to our friends. The Latter-day Saints know this, they understand it. They have recollection of recent events in which, within twenty-four hours or thereabouts, the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints contributed somewhere near $35,000. and it was sent to the afflicted people of Europe that were suffering; in consequence of war. and it was put into hands who would distribute it wisely to those who needed, without cost to anybody; and a portion of that fund, which was not distributed, remains to be dealt out to those who are really in need as their circumstances require." We close this epistle with another extract from the inspired discourse of President Smith, at our last Conference. Let this be our watchword and let these sentiments animate every woman in the Relief Society: "We admonish, we beseech our brothers and sisters in the gospel of Jesus Christ, not only to honor themselves by a proper course of living, but also to honor and love and be charitable to your neighbors, every one of you. We admonish you not only to keep the greatest of all the commandments that has ever been given of God to man, to love the Lord your God, with all your heart and mind and strength, but we exhort you also to observe that second law. next unto it. to love your neighbors as yourselves; return good for evil, do not revile others because you are or may be reviled. We have no need to tear down the houses of other people (using this expression as a symbol). We are perfectly willing that they should live in the homes they have erected for themselves, and we will try to show them a better way. While we will not condemn that which they love and cherish above all other things in the world, we will endeavor to show them a better way and build them a better home and then invite them kindly, in the spirit of Christ, of true Christianity, to enter the better dwelling. That is the principle, and I wish to impress it upon you." Emmeline P. Wells, President, Clarissa S. Williams, 1st counselor, Julina L. Smith, 2nd counselor First Winter in Salt Lake City, 1847 By Diantha Lowry Reid. Conditions of the Pioneers in Salt Lake Valley during the winter of '47 were anything but pleasant. The fort which they had built was surrounded on the north, west, and south sides by an adobe wall, while log-houses formed the south side. These houses were built with the front facing the inside of the fort, but each one had a look-out in the east side from which to watch Lorenzo D. Young's house being the only afterwards one built outside the fort. It stood where the Beehive house was built. The first part of the winter was somewhat mild, still there was rain and snow which, however, melted and came through the roofs of the houses much the same as if there had been no roof at all, and the women would often have to do their work while holding an umbrella over them. Mice of a large size gave them much trouble; also bed-bugs, which had been brought from the mountains in the green timber. The Indians were numerous, though they did not give the pioneers much trouble, other than begging, but they fought among themselves. The year 1847 had been such an eventful year to this little band of Pioneers; they had left their comfortable homes, crossed the trackless plains, reached this region inhabited only by the red man and wild animals, to make their new homes. Arriving in July, they had some little time to build before the winter came upon them; but the year was swiftly drawing to its close, it was New Year's eve; Christmas day was not celebrated in the early Pioneer days. The arduous work of the day was done for they were a busy people they had laid their tired bodies down to rest with their minds filled with the events of the past year the comfortable homes, the pleasant scenes they had been compelled to leave, with doubts and fears and hopes for the coming year. But in their hearts was peace, for they knew that the hand of God was over all, and had led them here, and could still protect them. Snow had fallen during the day, but in the evening the clouds disappeared, and the stars shone forth. Darkness silently spread near shroud over the earth, and night in her glory reigned supreme. There in the midst of that broad valley, by the side of the frozen stream, stood that humble little fort, like a speck upon a vast plain. To the north and east were the towering mountains, like sentinels still, as the ages past and gone true to their vitals over all that nestled at their feet. The valley stretched RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. away to the south in an even, unbroken plain, while far to the west spreading itself over miles and miles, lay that wonderful salt sea, its waters shimmering, sparkling in the pale light of the new moon as it slowly settled itself to rest behind the western horizon; and over all this scene lay the soft mantle of newly fallen snow. We may imagine that from the flag staff on Ensign peak, hung the emblem of peace, and ever and anon unfolded itself to the breezes, as a silent reminder to that little hand that the Stars and Stripes still waved over the homes of the brave. In their dreams, they heard their church-bells tolling a solemn dirge as they had farewell to the parting year, gone, gone forever, to add one more scene to old Father Time. Now they peel forth their welcome to the birth of the New Year; they hear the merry jests of the dancers as their feet keep time to the music that floats out upon the night air, as they dance the old year out, and the New Year in. This is a dream of the past, for in reality the scenes that surrounded our pioneers were far different. In the distance, along the creek, to the east, scattered here and there, is the wigwam of the red man, and as their fires, which are never allowed to go out, burn low. a dusky form appears to replenish their store of fuel. The blaze casts its fitful glare out over the snow-covered earth, causing the shadows of root objects to rise and fall like the forms of some marauder trying to escape in the darkness. The silence is suddenly disturbed by a succession of quick, sharp barks, with a prolonged, weird howl of some lonesome wolf; its mate some distance off catches up the note, and passes it on to the next of its kind, until there are hundreds chanting their hideous yells, which make the hills and valley echo, and re-echo with their unwanted discord. Night wanes, and the morning dawns bright and clear. Within that little fort, there is the hustle of life as friend greets friend with the old familiar wish, "Happy New Year." During the day, they gather together in worship, and praise their God from whom all blessings flow. Another year has sprung into existence, and they wonder what to harvest will bring. COVER YOUR VALISES. A suit case or valise that is allowed to be knocked about in automobiles and stages soon becomes shabby if not disreputable. Buy a couple of yards of duck or linen, or some strong, dark colored material: set in two pieces at each of the folded pieces: bind and sew buttons on to fasten over valise. What Women Can Do in Canning. A HOME IN ST. JOSEPH CITY, ARIZONA. When on a recent visit to the St. Johns and Snowflake stakes of Zion, Sister Empey and the Editor were filled with sympathy for the struggles of the people there, and with admiration for the courage and initiative with which the women of those stakes have met the terrible reverses and losses through alternate food and drought which have afflicted them in the last three years. While in St. Johns we were entertained at the home of Sister Udall and, notwithstanding the many trials these worthy people have endured, we found that brave and resourceful woman with a beautifully furnished home and a comfortable larder. The canned vegetables, especially the canned string-beans served at her table, filled our minds with admiration and our inner man with satisfying suppers. The name of the string-beans which she and others of this town had put up we give here so that all our readers may know the name of the very best string-beans we have ever eaten. They were the Kentucky Wonder and we scoured the town for seed beans to bring home and plant in our city gardens. What can be done by a woman of brains and resource was demonstrated fully to us in our last dinner eaten in St. Joseph City. The President of the Relief Society, Sister Porter, took all of our party out to her new home on the outskirts of the tiny city in her son's automobile. Here we found a small farm only three years old, but enclosed by a good fence, with a neat two story house on it. The father and mother lived in half of the house while the son and his wife occupied the other portion of the house. The young married Mrs. Porter, we were happy to learn, is one of our Relief Society nurses, and she is certainly a woman of superior intelligence. Her generous mother-in-law gave her the credit for the many admirable and wonderful things which we found in this home. Here we found a cellar, very small, but very clean, cement lined and filled even now with canned vegetables and fruit. There were beans, peas, corn, tomatoes, cabbage, asparagus, eggplant, squash, cauliflower, and bottles and bottles of canned beef and mutton; while the fruits, such as peaches, apricots, etc., helped to line the shelves with delicious food stuffs. Talk about war times or food shortage! These people had grown every one of the vegetables and fruits we saw, and instead RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. of letting anything go to waste they bottled it. Full of resources, this young woman could have found it possible to have put these ables into five-gallon cans if she could not have obtained sufficient bottles, as we used to do in the old times; opening the cans in the middle of the winter, rescalding the contents and putting them into quart bottles, which had by that time been emptied. This was not all outside the door was a canvas home-made refrigerator, kept wet from a pan of water on top. The milk and butter inside were cool and fresh as if they were in the cellar. Not only that, but beside this stood a home-made fireless cooker which served its purpose just as well as an expensive one bought from the stores. And again. inside the sitting-room was an incubator and brooder where both eggs and chicks attracted the interested gaze of the visitors. What has been done by one woman can be done by any other woman. Every article of food which we had on our loaded dinner table, except the sugar, was raised on this small, new Arizona farm. Rest assured we got far more than our dinner in this progressive, up-to-date and lovely home. We came away filled with resolves, new motives and heavenly inspiration to "go and do likewise." What about you dear reader? Can't you join this up-to-date club of Relief Society workers and grow and bottle all your food stuffs for next winter? OBSTINATE INK STAINS. When ink has been allowed to dry into cloth, it is often difficult to remove. The following method can be relied on to take out every trace of stain and will not hurt the goods if care is taken. A careless worker, however, can leave the material so poorly rinsed that it will soon become full of holes. First, apply a strong solution of bichloride of lime to the stain and wash out immediately in soft, cold water. The spot will have turned a brownish yellow; repeat the process two or three times if necessary, to remove all the black from the stain. Then apply a strong solution of oxalic acid. The druggist will tell you the proper proportion of water to use in this bleach. Immediately after dipping in the acid, rinse well, which means time after time, till every trace of the acid is gone. The rinse water should be soft and cold. Mothers in Israel. (Continuation of M. D. Stearns-Winters Narrative.) ENTERING THE VALLEY. The camp we left never caught up with us, and we traveled on day after day making good progress and prospering as well as people on that journey could do. The teams had all settled down to good work, had become used to traveling, were easy to handle, there was an abundance of grass and we went on our way rejoicing that all was so well with us. I think there were twenty teams besides the buggy we had. Brother Joseph Russell had five wagons, a carriage and a buggy. Part of the wagons were loaded with the machinery for the first Utah sugar factory that Brother Russell had largely helped to purchase. And he was also bringing material to help in building a home in the far off valleys of Ephraim. He and his wife were aged, and rather infirm and not used to the rough life they were experiencing. Their son Archie, a young man of twenty-two years, was an invalid, with consumption, and died one month after reaching Salt Lake City. Brother Winters had charge of all their teams and drivers and was termed, in the parlance of the plains, their wagon master. He had a horse of his own and could go here and there to help wherever it was needed. Brother Bradshaw, the one who drove their carriage, was also cook for the teamsters at camping time. There was a young girl with them to help Sister Russell, and their numbers were about one-third of our little train. Others of our company were Brother Milliam, wife, daughter and son. Brother Frodsham, wife and three children, another family with four children and two wagons; the others were couples without children. We had no captain or special organization, but moved along peacefully and harmoniously, each striving to do his best for speed and progress. We were just beginning to enjoy the journey. Mother's health had improved greatly, she was gaining strength every day. Our team had become steady, we could get in the wagon whenever we needed to, the strain we had been under so long had given way to peace and comparative rest. We now began to find messages quite frequently from the companies ahead of us and found we were not far behind some of the later ones. They were large companies and often delayed for different reasons, and before many days we caught up with the eleventh company and traveled a few days near them, but our teamsters found that the larger the company the more obstacles there were to encounter, to make camp at night or to get started in the morning. The only trouble we were liable RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. to encounter in that mode of traveling was the Indians, and as Brother Murie said, "We will go in faith that they will not trouble us," and I know that the blessing of the Lord was with us, for we saw very few Indians on the way, and nothing to harm or molest us. There was not an accident happened to any that were with us, nor a serious break of any kind. We never traveled on Sundays, but improved the rest of the time to the best advantage. We could now knit or sew comfortably, as the teams were jogging along on the level ground, and I made us some heavy skirts to use when the cool weather should come, and knit some cotton stockings to wear as we were going along. We had a new wooden tub and we would put some cold water in it in the morning and set out butter and other things in it. cover it thickly and it answered quite a good purpose as a refrigerator not making the butter exactly ice cold, but better than melted butter. Our morning's milk we put in our new tea kettle, placed a cloth under the cover, put a cork in the spout and tied a cloth over that and tied it to the reach under the wagon; and no matter how hot the day was, the draft under the wagon made it very comfortable too for our dinner, for there was a piece of butter the size of a teaspoon bowl, which was very fresh and sweet and the children took turns having it on bread. And so we plodded on day after day, sometimes making a fifteen-mile drive, but oftener twenty no hurry you could not change the gait of the oxen, but had to wait patiently their motion. No danger of getting left most anyone can walk as fast as a yoke of oxen can travel. One day after a long forenoon drive our company concluded to camp for the night, and rest the teams for the longer journey of the next day. There were some little repairs to be attended to and mother and I thought this a good opportunity for us to clean house, or more correctly speaking, straighten up our wagon. Brother Murie and Brother Jones had gone with the herd, it being their turn to attend to that duty. Olivia and Moroni were there to help and we proceeded with much energy to the task before us. Mother handed out the things, the children and I carried them into the tent and we soon had the wagon cleaned to our entire satisfaction. The things were nearly all replaced, in order and convenience. The sky had clouded over, but the shade was so agreeable to us that we had failed to note how near the storm was approaching till a vivid flash of lightning and a tremendous clap of thunder told it had come. The children scampered into the wagon, I ran into the tent to get another armful. but mother called. "Don't bring them out in the rain." so I was shut in the tent by myself. That terrible clap had seemed to rend the heavens asunder, and the water poured down in torrents and for hours we remained in that situation we could not hear each MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. other speak or know what condition either was in. It thundered and it lightened till the flashes were hot in my face. And oh, how I did wish I was in with the others that we might all share the same fate. Mother had her watch, and the storm lasted just two hours, and stopped about as suddenly as it started and was much like the one at Loup Fork, except the wind. Our things were not much wet. The sun soon came out bright and warm and we were soon as well off as usual. I was about the first one out from shelter and I stepped to a nearby wagon to inquire how they had fared in the storm. and when they spoke I raised the corner of the cover and the man said, harshly, 'Here, put that down, you will let the water in!" I did put it down quickly and ran into the tent and cried and cried and cried it nearly broke my heart, for I was not used to being spoken to in that way, but I forgave him long ago and do not think of him as Mr. Crosspatch any longer, for I thought if his folks had to endure that kind of temper all the time I could surely put up with it for once; but I did not go near that wagon again the whole journey though the women folks and I were very good friends. The next day we made a long drive and came to Wood River which was quite high on account of recent storm, and all hoped the river would be lower by morning. We went to sleep that night wishing we were on the other side and wondering how we would succeed in getting there. Three teams had crossed over and reported that the water had run into their wagon boxes, CAMP AT WOOD RIVER. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. so the rest put blocks under their boxes and raised them up a few inches. The first wagons were loaded with machinery and wetting would not hurt as they would soon dry again, but the provisions would be spoiled by getting wet. Brother Winters on rode at the lower side of the teams to keep them from turning down stream, and with help on either shore the teamsters waded in and landed safely on the other side. Our team was the fourth to cross, and mother with the two children, drove in with the buggy, right behind them, she preferring to go that way, and they made the voyage in safety. I went over in the carriage, and in the deepest place it floated a few feet, but the wheels soon struck the gravel again and we reached the other shore without harm. Each profited by the other's experience and the rest made the crossing with but little difficulty. The only article we lost on the journey was our flatiron at this place. We had been using it and left it to cool till the last minute. Mother put it on the projections in the front of the wagon, thinking to go in and place it farther back, but they were ready to start and there was not time. The banks were steep and when they went down the iron slipped into the water. We heard the splash and Brother Murie tried to find it. but it was "gone beyond recall" and we had to borrow for the rest of the journey. We went on much the same till we came to the Platte River, where we traveled along the north banks for over three weeks. Grass up to the wagon tracks, and each camp ground seemed the same as the night before, with the hot sun pouring down upon us all day, but we knew we were gaining miles on our journey and that made up for the discomforts attending it. That surely was "Plains" part of the journey, level as a field all the way, and if one lay down in the wagon for a sleep they never knew when to wake up for the jogging of the wagon would keep them sleeping all day. Our hands were so tanned that if we held them up at night one could count the white nails without a light. There was one thing that we enjoyed very much, and that was a bath in the river. The men of the camp found a convenient place down the river and had their swim in the day time. We could always tell, when they came into camp looking so fresh and clean, for most of the time they were a dusty looking lot. And the sisters each procured a bathing suit of some kind and we took our baths by starlight. We were afraid to go far from the shore on account of the quicksands. We would make a line from the nearest to the shore and the farthest ones out could get a good ducking without much danger. We were very still about it all, for we never could tell when Indians might be lurking around, and we slipped into our beds as quiet as kittens, greatly refreshed and thankful for the opportunity. MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. One night there came up a big wind storm, not rain, but a dry, hard wind, and it seemed to me that it blew harder and harder with every gust all night. Our wagon was just a few feet from the top of the bank and it was twenty feet down to the water, and I was on the side next to the river, and oh, how! did suffer with fear that night. I thought I could feel the wagon tipping many times. Mother tried to comfort me, telling me of the many times the Lord had brought us through trying scenes in the past, and that His hand was still over us to protect and save. About daylight the wind began to abate and by sunrise it was a calm, still day again and we traveled on as usual. In a day or two someone discovered that there was some nice timber on the other side of the river saplings that would make good whip stocks, and for some other things useful in camp, and a number started to go over and see what was to be found. My little brother with other little boys were down at the river having a swim and he wanted to go over the river too, so one of the teamster boys told him if he would carry his clothes for him he might swim over on his back, but my brother did not take his own clothes and was there in the hot sun for several hours and when he got back his face looked very red and had a peculiar expression. He told mother he had been over the river, but as he was safely back again she did not censure him, but thought she would talk to him another time. She gave him something to eat and still the distressed look was on his face. She asked him if he was sick, but he said, "No," then she asked also. If she him he had told been better him he any way and he said, lie down rest, "No," to said but he that he couldn't for his back hurt him, and when she looked, his back was as red as his face with numerous blisters all over it. She undressed him and applied a generous dose of cream and sweet oil and covered it with cotton batting, and he had to lie on his face to rest, for a number of days, and always remembered that the sun could make blisters. We had overtaken and passed several other companies, and one day we came up with a company of Oregon emigrants and camped with them. They seemed quite well-to-do people and our company bought some provisions of them some got flour and some dried fruit or whatever they had a surplus of. In the evening one came over to talk with mother and she inquired if there was anyone that had some asafetida that she could get. She had been in the habit of using it before she left home and had brought a quantity with her, but it was all gone and she was very miserable without it. Mother told her we had a piece somewhere, but she didn't know whether she could find it. She replied, "O you must find it, I cannot be this near to it and not get some." She was over early the next morning, and mother 376 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. hunted until she found it. (It was some we had at Kanesville on the small-pox epidemic and the children had little bags with some of it hung round their necks), and it was strange the effect it had on her, for she said, "Now I will be all right," and she took it so caressingly in her hands saying, "Oh, I am so glad to get it and will pay you anything you ask." Mother told her she was perfectly welcome to it and was glad if it would do her so much good, and she went back to her wagon a very happy looking woman. In a little while she came over again bringing a basin of beans and asked if we liked beans and could make use of them, remarking that they were tired of them and had more than they could use anyway. As we were Yankees we were as glad of the beans as she was of the asafetida, and we had used what we had brought with us and were glad to have some more. Then mother told her we would be glad to buy whatever she had to spare, so she bought back a peck, charging fifty cents which she thought a very good price, as they were very cheap where she had lived, and their load would be that much lighter. They were just getting ready to leave camp, but as it was Sunday we were going to rest over, and when they commenced hitching on their teams the swearing began, and of all the oaths ever poured from mortal throats that beat all for it was impossible to be any worse, and the nineteen year old step-son of the woman I have mentioned seemed to be past master of all the bad language in the universe, and it was said that all the company were about alike in that respect. We were awe-struck and silent and felt like holding our breath till they got out of our hearing. And mother remarked that if that young man's requests were heard and answered they would not be likely to get very far on their journey. The father had died just before starting, but as there were other relatives in the company the family had desired to go along. And now an event occurred which changed the current of life for me. Note. Here ends the clear and lovely recital penned by the hand of Mrs. Mary Ann Stearns Winters. The embodiment of modesty she ended her narrative where her marriage brought herself into the limelight. She could write of others and of childish falls and incidents but not about her deepest mature emotions and experiences. The event she refers to was her marriage to the brave young teamster and pioneer, Oscar Winters, referred to in her story. On the 16 Aug., 1852, just before entering the Valley the young couple were married by President Lorenzo Snow, who was on his return voyage from his mission to Italy. (to be concluded.) Object, Origin and Destiny of Women The following is taken from The Mormon, published in New York City by the late President John Taylor, of August 29, 1857, the paper containing it being furnished us by Robert Mann, of Plain City: The Latter-day Saints have often been ridiculed on account of their belief in the pre-existence of spirits and in marrying for time and for all eternity, both being Bible doctrines. We have often been requested to give our views in relation to these principles, but considered the things of the kingdom belonged to the children of the kingdom, therefore, not meet to give them to those without. But being very politely requested by a lady a few days since (a member of the Church) to answer the following questions, we could not consistently refuse; viz., "Where did I come from? What is my origin? What am I doing here? Whither am I going? and, What is my destiny, after having obeyed the truth, if faithful to the end?" For her benefit and all others concerned we will endeavor to answer the questions in brief, as we understand them. The reason will be apparent for our belief in the pre-existence of spirits, and in marrying for time and for all eternity. Lady whence comest thou? Thine origin? What art thou doing here? Whither art thou going, and what is thy destiny? Declare unto me if thou hast understanding? Knowest thou not. that thou art a spark of Deity, struck from the fire of His eternal blaze, and brought forth in the midst of eternal burnings? Knowest thou not that eternities ago, thy spirit, pure and holy, dwelt in thy Heavenly Father's bosom, and in His presence, and with thy mother, one of the queens of heaven, surrounded by thy brother and sister spirits in the spirit world, among the gods? That as thy spirit beheld the scenes transpiring there, and thou growing in intelligence, thou sawest worlds organized and peopled with thy kindred spirits, took upon them tabernacles, died, were resurrected, and received their exaltation on the redeemed worlds they once dwelt upon. Thou being willing and anxious to imitate them, waiting and desirous to obtain a body, a resurrection and exaltation also, and having obtained permission, thou made a covenant with one of thy kindred spirits to be thy guardian angel while in mortality, also with two others, male and female spirits, that thou wouldst come and take a tabernacle through their lineage, and become one of their offspring. Thou also chose a kindred RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. spirit whom you loved in the spirit world, (and had permission to come to this planet and take a tabernacle ) to be your head, stay, husband and protection on the earth and to exalt you in the eternal worlds. All these were arranged, likewise the spirit that should tabernacle through lineage. Thou Longed, thou sighed, and thou prayed to the Heavenly Father for the time to arrive when thou couldst come to this earth, which had fled and fallen from where it was first organized, near the planet Kolob; leave thy father and mother's bosoms and all thy kindred spirits, come to earth, take a tabernacle, and imitate the deeds of those you had seen exalted before you. At length the time arrived and thou heard the voice of thy Father, saying, go daughter to yonder lower world, and take upon thee a tabernacle and work out thy probation with fear and trembling and rise to exaltation. But daughter, remember you go on this condition, that is, that you are to forget all things you ever saw, or knew to be transacted in the spirit world; you are not to know or remember anything concerning the same that you have seen transpire here; but you must go and become one of the most helpless of all beings that I have created, while in your infancy; subject to sickness, pain, tears, mourning, sorrow and death. But when truth shall touch the cords of your heart they will vibrate; intelligence shall illumine your mind, and shed its lustre in your stud, and you shall begin to understand the things you once knew, but which had gone from you; you shall then begin to understand and know the object of your creation. Daughter, go. and be faithful in your second estate, keep it as faithful as thou hast thy first estate. Thy spirit filled with joy and thanksgiving, rejoiced in thy Father, and rendered praise to his holy name, and the spirit world resounded in anthems of praise and rejoicing to the Father of spirits. Thou bade Father and mother and all farewell, and along with thy guardian angel, thou came on this terraqueous globe. The spirits thou had chosen to come and tabernacle through their lineage, and your head having left the spirit world some years previous, thou came a spirit pure and holy; thou hast taken upon thyself a tabernacle, thou hast obeyed the truth, and thy guardian angel ministers unto thee and watches over thee. Thou hast chosen him who loved thee in the spirit to be thy companion. Now crowns, thrones, exaltations and dominions are in reserve for thee in eternal worlds, and the way is opened for thee to return back into the presence of thy Heavenly Father, if thou wilt only abide by and walk in a celestial law. fill the designs of thy creation and hold out to the end. That when mortality is laid in the tomb, you may go down to your grave in peace, arise in glory, and receive your everlasting ARE WE WISE? reward in the resurrection of the just, along with thy head and husband. Thou wilt be permitted to pass by the gods aloft angels who guard the gates, and onward, upward to thy exaltation in a celestial world among the gods. To be a priestess queen unto thy Heavenly Father, and a glory to thy husband and offspring, to bear the souls of men, to people other worlds, as thou widst bear their tabernacles in mortality) while eternity goes and eternity comes; and if you will receive it, lady, this is eternal life. And man not herein without this the woman saying of in the the Apostle Paul fulfilled, Lord, neither "that is the. woman without the man in the Lord." "That man is the head of the woman, and the glory of the man is the woman." Hence thine origin, the object of thy creation, and thy ultimate destiny, if faithful. Lady, the cup is within thy reach, drink then the heavenly draught, and live. ARE WE WISE? By Mrs. Grace Jacob seen. Are "we loving and kind to each other? Do we speak of each virtue and good That everyone has in a measure? Do we treat everyone as we should? Do we magnify details, and clamor About the mistakes others make? Sit in judgment of others' intentions? If we do, then our love's a mistake. Do I watch for a chance at my neighbor To give him a cut, or a rap With my tongue, when I envy his praises? If I do, my love's not worth a snap. The love that is true will not wound me. Nor harpoon my name at my back, And then when I meet you. how pleasant! For loving and peace there's no lack. We should try, as we travel life's upland. To separate gold from the dross, And hold to the sunlight of true love The glittering dew in the moss. Mother Entertains By Diana Parrish. Isobel read in a flutter the letter which mother handed to her. "Wellington, New Zealand, July 3rd, 1915. "My Dear Mrs. Hartley: Your friend Mrs. Wilson, whom I had the honor of meeting recently, has kindly given me your address. She assures me that you will not think it too great burden to show me about your city when I visit the United States. I am looking forward to my visit in your quaint city and trust that my presumption in asking to meet you and your family will not in any way discommode you. I expect to arrive there on the morning of August 1st. "Faithfully yours, "Edmund Benton, Bart." "Think of receiving a letter from a real baronet and in his own handwriting!" burst from the girl as she finished. "And look at the coat of arms embossed in colors. How lovely. 'Facta Non Verba.' I've forgotten all my Latin, but I believe it means 'Deeds, Not Words.' Isn't it wonderful, mother? We're going to entertain nobility." Mother smiled at her daughter's excitability and at the recollection of her own romantic ideas in her younger days. "My dear child, do you realize that we must have Sir Edmund for dinner? My chief worry at the present moment is that he arrives on the first of August, the worst of the 'dog days.' What in the world can we have that will be nice and cool?" Isobel looked up sharply from her close scrutiny of the baronet's letter. "Mother! You don't mean you don't mean to may you are going to serve a cold dinner! Why, everybody knows that the proper English dinner always includes soup, prime roast beef with Yorkshire pudding, with plum pudding as the dessert. Mother paused. This difficulty had flashed through her own mind. "Our customs are not English, Isobel," said mother, finally, "I have decided that we will serve our usual dinner and put on no frills or fine feathers which would prove unbecoming. We don't want to be caught like jays with borrowed plumage." "Very well, if you feel that way about it. After all, it's your dinner. But I'd do it differently for a baronet it's the MOTHER ENTERTAINS. chance of a life-time, and our ways are so awfully plain compared to things they are used to." "Can't you and Tom come around this evening? We'll talk it over then." "Yes, we can come. We'll be over early." Isobel rose and started home, brightening at the thought that perhaps she could persuade her mother to change her decision and give a dinner worthy of the occasion. Evening found the Hartley household seated around the mund. table earnestly discussing the entertainment of Sir Edmund. library "We'll have to say 'cawn't' and 'shawn't' won't we. mother? There's an English girl in my class at school and she always pronounces that way. She says that it isn't proper to speak with a yankee twang." Viola gravely made this important comment. While doing so. however, she could not resist the temptation of watching herself in the mirror and fluffing up her hair. "Oh. yes. and Beatrice must wear her hair down in curls with a big bow of ribbon at the back. A lot of English girls wear their hair down until they are seventeen. I've seen pictures of them." volunteered Mignon, eager that no detail likely to add to the glory of the occasion should pass unnoticed. "And we'll have to call mother 'mater' and father 'pater.' T see it that way in a lot of English stories T read." urged Viola. "We'd better begin to practice for there's only five days before his lordship or whatever he is, comes. Pater, you'll have to have your mustache cut short in the middle with long ends and then wax the ends into stiff points like spears. The Sunday paper fashion notes say that's the latest English style for men." "Yes. and get out that gray suit you put away, because it was too tight for you. All the skin-tight clothes the dudes are wearing Bea. about town are called the 'latest English styles'." laughed Father lost his serene countenance quickly at the mention of his petted moustache. He frowned in recollection of the discarded suit which had proved so irritating to a man whose motto was first and last "solid comfort." "What's this, what's this?" he cried, affecting a fierce growl. "Is my liberty to be interfered with for this Sir Somebody? I'm a plain man used to plain ways and I must not be disturbed." Father glared in mock ferocity at each member of the family and then resumed his reading. "Let's quit joking and get down to business. What shall we have for dinner? T thought would begin with sliced fruit in place of soup " Isobel interrupted mother. "Can't T persuade you. mother, to serve a proper English dinner? Look, here's what T would sug- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. gest. I've written out a menu from an English cook hook I found at the library I just had to run down there and hunt for something after I left you. for we do want this dinner to be a grand affair. Think what it means? You, Mr. Hartley, are going to entertain Sir Edmund Benton!" The girl thrust the written menu into her mother's hands. Even father put down his paper as mother read: Soup Mulligatawny Fish Fried snapper Entree Scrambled calves' brains Joint Prime roast beef with Yorkshire pudding Vegetables Baked potatoes, cauliflower and French beans Roast chicken with bread sauce Sweets Raspberry tart Savory Grilled sardines Biscuits and cheese Fruits Nuts Cafe Noir As mother finished, the family sat aghast. Isobel hastened to explain her plan. "We'll hire a waitress for the day and can easily everything then. Before hand one of the girls must act manage as the waitress and we must all practice being served from the lefthand side. Father must brush up on his carving, and mother must practice serving the vegetables when the maid brings her the plates on which father has put the meat. Sir Edmund will never know but what we do this all the time. To make the thing complete, before dinner, father must ask Sir Edmund if he wishes a whisky and soda and we must have wine for the dinner." Isobel's suggestions of coffee, of whisky and soda and wine came as quite a shock to the Hartleys, even though she assured them that her reference book had declared the liquor necessary. "I think it would make my head swim." confided Viola," and I wouldn't know what I was doing." "Nonsense," argued Isobel; "you can't afford to be a little green-horn all your life. All the society people do it. and I'm sure Sir Edmund will expect it. I dare say he'd be insulted if you offered him water." "The wine wouldn't be so bad because we could mix water with it. like they do in France." Bea commented. To her romantic young mind the idea of a fashionable dinner such as she read of in the "best -filers" was most fascinating. At last the family was to depart from the simple home dining which she considered most prosaic. They were to wine and dine somewhat after the fashion of royalty. "What do you think, father? Shall we leave aside our MOTHER ENTERTAINS. temperance rules this time in honor of our guest?" asked mother, slowly. "I'll leave the decision to you, mother, since it's in your department, so to speak. I'm quite willing to abide your conclusion. "Mother glanced again over the astonishing menu. Then she spoke. "Well, since it's left to me, I shall decide to stay with our usual ways. We have never used stimulants because we consider them harmful. In my opinion it would be foolish to forsake our principles for fear of being thought queer. We ought to be willing to stay by them in spite of any one, be he prince or pauper. As to the English dinner, that, too, seems to me to be in poor taste, since it is summer, and the foods included are much too hot. You must not be offended, Isobel, because I do not follow your suggestions. You understand my position, don't you, dear?" "It's quite all right, mother. No doubt you know best," replied the daughter huskily. Deep down in her heart, however, she thought her mother was making a great mistake and would suffer the consequent disgrace before the noble and elegant personage of Sir Edmund Benton, Bart. The day of Sir Edmund's arrival "dawned bright and clear" as the story books say. Judging from the red rays of the sun which blazed up behind the mountains at five in the morning, it would indeed be a "dog day." At six o'clock the family was astir. Mother came down stairs and spent an hour watering the flowers while she mentally reviewed her preparations. Father was down half an hour before her, putting the finishing touches to the newly cut lawn and edges which were his pride and joy. Beatrice was bustling about to get a seven o'clock breakfast in order to have the kitchen cleared so that there would be no flurry over the dinner preparations. Mignon was cutting exquisite roses still glowing under their pearls of dew. As she put them in the bowls she indulged in dreams of modern knights and lords who come to America in search of wives, and boldly snatch away lovely American girls, the same acts being heralded as international alliances. The particular knight on whom her mind focused was named "Sir Edmund" and the beautiful American's name was "Mignon." By eleven o'clock the house was in order and the dinner well under way. Bob drove round in his car to take father to the station and Isobel arrived to lay the table. "How many places, mother?" she asked brightly. "Fourteen." Isobel's face doubled in length. "Mother! surely you're not going to have the entire family! It's too many. It looks funny." "You surprise me, my dear," said mother, gently. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "But it's such a crowd! The boys have to work, so why not let them, seven sit down. and don't Then their the wives. That later others come way in only have afternoon and shock. introduce I told them Tom gradually not to come until by one late and it big won't be excites family such a so much comment and especially with a nobleman. It's simply not being done, nowadays, mother, it's simply not being done!" "I won't take offense at what you say, my dear," said mother, after a long pause. "I know you often speak before you think. Lay the table for the entire family, and telephone Tom to be here by one o'clock for dinner." Mother went up-stairs to dress. As the time wore on the girls became more and more excited over the coming guest. "What do you think he will be like, Bea?" questioned Viola. "I hardly know, but I imagine he will be tall and slim, with wavy hair and face that looks as if it had been cut in ivory by a master hand." Bea let slip a love-sick sigh. "Yes, I think he will be tall, too," chipped in Mignon, "but he will have rosy cheeks and black hair and glorious eyes, more like the Irish." She gazed dreamily out the window. "How do you think he will be dressed?" demanded Bea. "A Prince Albert broadcloth suit." urged Isobel. " satin cut-a-way coat and knee breeches with diamond garters. I saw a picture of one in the Telegraph," interposed Viola breathlessly. "Like Lord Byron, with an open collar to show his beautiful throat." argued Mignon. Fanny and Geraldine appearing at that moment could not quite decide how they thought he would be dressed. "I rather think" "Here he is now," whispered Bea, wildly. All rushed to the window to peek through the curtains. From the machine stepped a man of seventy. He was a trifle more than six feet tall, and to the surprised girls at the curtains appeared to be almost as many feet broad. His red face was covered with a scraggly gray beard above which his merry blue eyes twinkled. Instead of the black satin court suit fancied by Bea, he luxuriated in a baggy tweed suit of the most conservative style, which loosely hung to his gigantic frame. A battered felt hat set off his gray hair, which could not even by the wildest Fancy, have been called Byronic locks. As if to make the picture more grotesque the noble visitor carried in one hand a dusty steamer rug rolled up firmly with great mysterious knobs poking out. knobs which no amount of firm rolling could disguise. In the other hand he clutched a huge, round, tin hat box painted MOTHER ENTERTAINS. yellow, which looked so much like the tin cake box in the pantry that the girls plainly saw C-A-K-E printed across the front in bold letters. Behind Sir Edmund, father, looking astonishingly fashionable, heaved at a big wicker telescope-basket, extended to the last possible notch. Bob struggled smilingly under a brown canvas sea bag stuffed so full that it threatened to burst off the staunch padlock that held the steel rings around the top together. The girls never could remember how they greeted Sir Edmund when mother introduced them. The hour before dinner was always a trifle hazy. To Isobel. however, the sitting down at the table was painfully engraved in her memory. The noble visitor found himself face to face with fourteen, all one family. After grace was said the family began cautiously on the sliced fruit which stood at each place. Isobel fairly held her breath as Sir Edmund tasted his. She was dumbfounded to note that he appeared to eat it with pleasure. She watched his face as the girls brought in the chicken and the vegetables. If he missed his soup, he was too well-bred to show it. And he ate his salad with positive relish. Not only that, but he drank two glasses of water without making a face. As he accepted a second serving of ice cream (quite as if he had never heard of plum pudding) he chatted in a fascinating manner of his work for the British government which carried him to every quarter of the globe. "The after-dinner coffee is the test." worried Isobel. "Mother might have given in on that score and saved the dinner." She was miserable as mother and father folded their napkins and their guest, watching them, laid his on the table. Suddenly Sir Edmund spoke again: "Mrs. Hartley, as my hostess, I am going to take the liberty of congratulating you on your dinner, even at the risk of appearing rude. From my point of view it was ideal, for I have been a seeker after health for years and have had to abide by certain rules, none of which have I had to break today in order not to offend my hosts. I could not begin to fill my state responsibilities and social obligations, if I did not live simply. We are bringing up our eight sons in the same way." Mother blushed in happy confusion. "Thank you, Sir Edmund." Isobel wilted into her chair. How to Make a Homemade Fireless Cooker The materials needed are a box, or some other outside container, some good packing material, a kettle for holding the food, a container for the kettle or a lining for the nest in which the kettle is to be placed, and a cushion or pad of insulating material to cover the top of the kettle. For the outside container a tightly built wooden box, an old trunk or small barrel may be used. The box should have a hinged cover, and at the front side a hook and staple or some device for holding the cover down. The container must be large enough for at least 4 inches of packing material all around the nest in which the kettle is placed. Kettle used for cooking should be durable and free from seams or crevices; should have perpendicular sides, and the covers should be as flat as possible and provided with a deep rim shutting well down into the kettle to retain the steam. The size of the kettle should be determined by the quantity of food to be cooked. As an extra source of heat a piece of soapstone. brick, or a stove lid may be used. This is heated and placed in the nest under the cooking vessel. In case these are used there must be a metal lining to the nest to prevent fire. For the packing and insulating material, asbestos and mineral wool are the best. Ground cork, hay, excelsior, wool, and crumpled paper, are satisfactory. Crumpled paper is probably the rest of the last named materials. To pack the container with paper, crush single sheets of newspaper between the hands. Tack a layer at least 4 inches deep over the bottom of the outside container, tramping or pounding it in. Stand the container for the cooking vessel, or the lining for the nest, in the center of this layer and pack more crushed paper around it as solidly as possible. When an extra source of heat is to be used, it is much safer to pack the fumeless cooker with some non inflammable material. If fireproof packing is not used line the nest with asbestos paper. Packing material should come to the top of the container for the kettle.

and the box should lack about 4 inches of being full. Make a cushion or pad to fill completely the space between the top of the packing and the cover of the box after the hot kettles are put in place. Make this of heavy goods, such as denim, and stuffed with cotton, crumpled paper, or excelsior.

The Iceless Refrigerator. Prepared by U. S. Department of Agriculture. This refrigerator consists of a wooden frame covered with Canton flannel, burlap, or heavy duck. It is desirable that the frame be screened, although this is not necessary. Wicks, made of the same material as the covering, resting in a pan of water on top of the cooler conduct the water over the sides and ends of the pan and allow it to seep down the sides of the box. The evaporation from this moistened covering causes a lower temperature inside. On dry, hot days a temperature of 50 degrees has been known to be obtained in the cooler. This is the way to build it: Make a screened case 2/3 feet high with the other dimensions 12 by 15 inches. If a solid top is used, simply place the water pan on this. Otherwise fit the pan closely into the opening of the top frame and support it by 1-inch cleats fastened to the inside of the frame. Place two movable shelves in the frame 12 to 15 inches apart. Use a biscuit pan 12 by 14 inches on the top to hold the water, and where the refrigerator is to be used indoors have the whole thing standing in a large pan to catch any drip. The pans and case may be painted white, allowed to dry, and then enameled. A covering of white Canton flannel should be made to fit the frame. Have the smooth side out and button the covering on the frame with buggy or automobile curtain hooks and eyes arranged so that the door may be opened without unfastening these hooks. Two double strips one-half the width of each side should be sewed on the top of each side covering and allowed to extend over about 2/4 or 3 inches in the pan of water. The bottom of the covering should extend into the lower pan.

TO SWEETEN BUTTER. Rancid butter is unfit for use, even for cooking purposes. But one can restore it to some degree of its original sweetness, and thereby render it fit for cooking, at least. Melt the butter, and stir into it a pinch of baking soda; remove from the fire and drop into it a piece of toasted bread. Keep the butter for ten or fifteen minutes where it will not harden, remove the bread and you will be surprised at the difference in the taste of the butter.

July Entertainment By Morag. The Fourth of July should be observed as a community holiday and patriotic exercises held. Every home should display "Old Glory." In view of the existing conditions in the country, this must be strictly a sane Fourth. Organize a community choir and sing the national song if a parade is held, let each organization represent some historical event in the history of our nation. If your ward or community desire to make some money, nothing would be prettier than to hold an army fair, with its tents, flags, and aides in brilliant costume. Tents may be pitched on the lawn or park. The tents take the place of booths or stalls. In front of each tent is a placard which gives in military parlance the name of the stall. The articles sold are appropriate to the name found at the door. In the commissariat all kinds of food supplies are sold. The refreshment tent is the mess room, and soft drinks and ice cream may be sold in the canteen. In the hospital tent, which is decorated with the Red Cross, all kinds of toilet supplies, home remedies and various articles for the sick room may be found. The aides may be dressed as Red Cross nurses. Here during the day practical demonstrations of first aid to the injured may be given. Devote one booth or tent to the sale of flags. Let the boy scouts patrol the grounds, and during the day, have some drink and a program of national songs, by the community choir and band. Popcorn balls may be sold by the young ladies dressed in the national colors. Conclude with band concert and dancing on the green.

RECIPE FOR POPCORN BALLS. Put 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup white, 1/2 cup molasses, 1 cup water, 1 tablespoon vinegar into well buttered pan. Cook without stirring until a hard ball will form when tried in water. Then add 1 tablespoon butter. Remove from fire, add pinch of soda and pour quickly over four quarts of freshly popped corn. Chill the hands in cold water and shape the balls quickly. These HOME ENTERTAINMENTS. 389 may be wrapped in waxed paper and will sell readily for five cents each.

PIONEER DAY. This, also, is a community holiday and should be celebrated by all of our people. Pageantry, parades, patriotic exercises are in order here. Be sure and sing our state song, "Utah We Love Thee." A similar affair as that suggested for the Fourth might be held, only have a country fair instead of an army one. Many of our people will spend the day in the mountains, and this is a very nice way to enjoy the day. Go as family parties, as neighbors, or in ward groups, old and young together and a very happy day may be spent. Many of the world's greatest events have taken place on or near the mountains, and the thought suggested itself for a home evening exercise.

PROGRAM FOR HOME EVENING. The Mountains of the Scriptures. Assign to each member of the family one or more of the mountains; let them search the scriptures, and read from the Bible, or relate the incidents connected with Mount Ararat, Sinai, Nebo, Horeb, Lebanon, Moriah, Hermon, Mount of Olives, Calvary, Mountain of the Lord's House. Book of Mormon, "High Mountain" Ramah, (Cumorah), Zerin. Songs: "Flee as a Bird," "Home to our Mountains," "Lift Thine Eyes," "For the Strength of the Hills," etc. In some of Ruskin's books there are many wonderful word pictures of mountains. See Modern Painters. For Nebo, read "The Burial of Moses." Sister Angela Packer, of Riverdale, Oneida stake, writes that she enjoyed the Bible menu recently published and has sent us a recipe for Scripture cake. Thanks. I am sure we will all enjoy trying it: Take 1 1/2 cups of I Kings 4:22, 1 cup of Judges 5:25, 2 cups Jeremiah 6:2, 2 cups of 1 Samuel 30:12, 2 cups of Nahum 3:12, 2 cups of Numbers 17:8, pinch of Lev. 2:13, 3 teaspoons of 1 Samuel 14:25, of Jeremiah 17:11, 1/2 cup of Judges 4:19, 2 teaspoons of Amos 4:56. Season to taste with 2 Chronicles 9:9.

BIBLE LESSONS FOR AUGUST. "His delight is in the law of the Lord, and in His law doth he meditate day and night." Doctrine and Covenants. Sections 99-131. Bible, Ruth. Chapters 1-4.

President Joseph F. Smith on Card Playing. (From the Improvement Era.) A correspondent has sent a request that you say something of the position we take on card-playing. I therefore, I have written upon it, both in this magazine and others, and spoken of it many times before the congregations of the Saints. Personally, and always I am positively and insistently opposed to the Latter-day Saints playing cards, either at home, in private circles, in public, at socials or at any other gathering of the people. Our correspondent further states that he wishes to know how to meet the argument of a number of young ladies in his settlement who are or should be workers in the Sunday School and other organizations of the ward, who insist on playing cards "in their private parties or gatherings, of three or four, and so on, when they get together for an evening's visit." They argue that they just play among themselves and enjoy it: they do not play for money; they play in their own homes, so they are not, as they claim, setting anyone else an example outside of their own circle of friends, and for that reason cannot see where they are doing any harm. They feel, also, and have so expressed it, that "anyone who opposes them is interfering with their personal liberty." They say further "that certain persons in high standing in the community have their card parties; they nevertheless, go to meeting, and are treated as the best of people;" so that, "if it is right for these people to play cards in social parties, it can not be wrong for us in our private parties." Our correspondent further states that he has even heard of "certain high priests who play cards when they ought to be in meeting on Sunday." He wishes us to tell him how to meet the arguments of the young ladies. If there is any truth in what he says he has heard about "certain high priests," they should be dealt with for their fellowship. It appears to me a very simple matter to meet such arguments. It is just as painful in the sight of the Lord to do an evil secretly or in the home, as it is to do one publicly, and it has practically the same effect upon the person who does the evil act, although the evil results may not be so far-reaching as if done in public. No person can play cards, or smoke, or drink, or do any other forbidden thing, in his home, by himself or among his personal friends, without being guilty of wrongdoing just as PRESIDENT SMITH ON CARD PLAYING. 391 much as if he did all these things in public. We cannot be hypocrites, and whatever we do should be worthy, of course, of being done openly and above board, if we would be effective teachers. No young lady can teach children in the Sabbath School the evils of card-playing, who plays cards in her home society, or with her personal friends. The teachings of such will have no good effect, because her heart will not be in it, and example and habit are stronger than words. The same may be said of every other person including "high priests," and "certain persons in high standing." I have stated heretofore why I hold that card-playing is wrong. In the first place, it results in the useless waste of valuable time; secondly, the practice leads to the public card table, thence to the saloon, to gambling, and to ruin and shame. These facts can be easily demonstrated by the history of men who have time and pleasure in their private homes; but who have gradually become infatuated, crazed with it, and left the home, and taken up with companions who have easily led them from card-playing for fun or amusement, to playing cards for money and intoxicating drink, which, of course, most certainly leads to destruction am I absolutely opposed to playing cards in homes, in social gatherings, privately or publicly, and this applies as much to those our correspondent calls "certain persons in high standing," as it does to the young lady or the young man who is or should be teaching in the Sabbath Schools even in the remotest village or community in the Church.

SOCIAL FAMILY MEETINGS. By Morag. Here is a hint I should like to pass on. The sisters of one of our large families have set aside one day a week on which they meet at the home of one of their number and sew. In this way a great deal is accomplished, for one has a talent for plain sewing, another a knack in embroidery and fancy work while another is a genius for making over, and one has that dainty milliner's touch. The hostess of the day furnishes the refreshments and the work, and as many hands make light work, very happy results follow. The sisters keep in close, loving touch with each other, are well dressed, avoid large dressmakers' bills, help one another, and keep alive that interest in each other's welfare that should exist amongst us. A group of friends or schoolmates, or as in one group I know, of cousins, or even neighbors, might try this plan to good advantage.

Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. Russia, under its new form of government, is yet in a condition bordering on anarchy. Fire at Atlanta, Ga., in May, destroyed 3,000 houses and made 100,000 people homeless, temporarily. Fifty-one nations are represented in the foreign legion fighting in France against the Teutonic armies. Crop reports for 1917 look well in figures, but disastrous storms make the prospect appear different. Over one hundred thousand prisoners were taken by the French, British and Italian armies during the month of May. At Mainz, Germany, in a food riot early in May, eight persons were killed and 500 others arrested and imprisoned. Thirteen German and Austrian submarines were sunk by Titan war vessels during the third week in May. Coal miners to the number of 120 were killed by a mine explosion at Hastings, Colo., in May. The Turkish campaign of Great Britain continues to record successes for the British in Palestine. The Jews are being driven from Palestine by the Turks, but the latter's turn for retirement is nearing fast. American war VESSELS already are rendering effective service in European waters, in coping with German submarines. Economy is being urged upon the people generally; but extravagance and oppression yet seem to be the watchword with the tax-gatherer. Great Britain proposes to enfranchise all women over 30 years of age. The high limit is objectionable that unmarried females will be slow to confess to such advanced experience. The Temple being built by the Latter-day Saints in the CURRENT EVENTS. 393 Hawaiian Islands is practically completed so far as the outside work is concerned, but will not be ready for dedication until October, and there will not be a general excursion as rumored from Utah to the Islands on the occasion of the dedication. "The Kaiser must go," is a demand sent by Socialists in America to Germany. But the German people have the right to choose their own form of government. In Greece, a large portion of the people have voted to depose the king; but Constantine still holds on in Athens, the capital. King George of England is said to be cultivating a garden pitch at Windsor Castle. "He did that same thing when he was a boy. Will he ever be in the Czar's position? France wants Col. Roosevelt on the fighting line there. Undoubtedly the ex-president has a magic for enthusing courageous and skillful fighters. But some are jealous of that popularity. Reliable statistics show that in the present European war at least seven million soldiers have been killed and that forty-five million people have lost their lives. Italy, as well as France and Great Britain, has registered considerable headway against the Teutonic allies during the month of May. The first U-boat sunk by Americans in the war with Germany was the submarine destroyed by the armed merchant vessel Mongolia, when the enemy approached the latter. Mothers wearing high-heeled shoes is given as a more prolific cause of physical deformities in young Americans rejected for military service than is any other source of difficulty. Coal prices are mounting higher and higher in Utah, and at the same time the coal is being shipped out of the State to the great inconvenience and even injury of the people. 100,000 people are said to be starving in northern Syria, yet no aid can be given them because of the German submarine menace, which prevents the transportation thither of food supplies. Utah did well her part in buying Liberty bonds, in the registration of her youths for selective conscription, and in answering the call of the Red Cross. 394 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, Great Britain, France and Italy sent missions of distinguished diplomats to the United States in May. They were well received, and made partial arrangements for harmonious participation of the United States in the war in Europe. American troops are being sent to the front in France. It is stated that, with the 25,000 regulars now ordered there, at least 100,000 Americans will be on the battle line. Austria appears to have been selected by the Entente allies as the place through which to pierce the Teutonic lines, now that the Germans are being held in check in France. Tornadoes in Illinois, Kansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Georgia, and other States, during the last week in May, took a toll of over 300 lives, with five times that number of people injured and millions of dollars in damage. War revenue taxes are being protested in all parts of the country on the basis that the amount sought to be raised in the United States is beyond that necessary at the present time, and will promote official extravagance and waste. Submarines sank a number of troop and hospital ships during May, as well as many merchant vessels. Yet the loss in this line is decreasing, and shows that the Entente allies are meeting successfully the German submarine menace. Food control is urged upon the national Congress. Of this means actual government distribution, the American people soon will find it both costly and unsatisfactory. "Regulation of the traffic in food stuffs is necessary and sufficient, without an official army of grocers and butchers. Canning vegetables and fruits is being taught in the ladies' clubs in the intermountain country. This is not so great an innovation as may seem to some, since most of the womenfolk in this part of the country, young and the more mature, have had practical home experience in that line. The "Relief Society, always in the lead, instituted such courses, with home gardening years ago.

Home Science Department. By Janice A. Hyde. In the lesson work prepared for the summer months, we have given very simple and practical methods for the preparation and care of vegetables and fruit. We recommend these suggestions to the careful consideration of all our readers, as we feel assured of successful results from carrying out these ideas. In Ogden stake, we saw the practical demonstration of the winter possibilities of bottled chicken, asparagus tips, beans, peas, and strawberries. Even the homely dandelion had been bottled for table use, and looked as edible and delicious as any of the other vegetables, and by far, the cheapest of any on display. (Let the children gather the dandelions from the lawns, fields, and sidewalks, and clean them thoroughly for mother to put up in jars). Dandelions contain more iron than spinach. We feel that in these times of real need of conservation, that our sisters will not be found wanting in their duty; it is a national call for us, now, to help in every way possible. The eyes of the whole world are turned toward the women of this nation, with anxious waiting, to see if we will measure up to the high standard which the American women have always held. We will be compared to the brave and resourceful, courageous women of Belgium, France, and England, who have given so much to assist their countries at war, and who have so far proved equal to every emergency and task. Not only have they given up husbands and sons, but many have gone into the battle field, as nurses, cooks, helpers in real army life, beside assaying the civic and public duties, hitherto undertaken by men only. If called upon, are we prepared to meet such demands, with as much honor as these women have done? feel in our hearts, that we can hear you all answer, "Yes," and know that in this hour of need, we are preparing for the great emergencies which await us. The first duty, then, for our women, is to study the food problems, conserve food resources, and get every ounce of nutriment from the food prepared. the study of food your sacred duty, that you may understand a properly balanced meal. Prepare the food 'in such a way, that there shall be no waste; serve only the amount necessary for each individual. all left-overs into appetizing and nutritious dishes. Put the word save on everybody's lips not miserly saving, but wise produced, and discreet economy. We must see to it that more food is as well as saved, that those countries depending upon us, shall be supplied, and not want because of our neglect or waste. 396 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. We are told by those who know, that millions of children have been underfed, and are slowly starving, that the tables of many moderately well-to-do, and successful people have been lacking in the varieties of food that growing children need, in order that they may properly develop. Medical experts are sending out these words of warning, and the people must give heed, and render every assistance possible. This is the first duty of every woman, and those who refuse to accept this call are lacking in patriotism, just as much as the man who refuses to enlist and serve his country's cause. We hear the questions asked, "What does it all mean?" and "How shall we begin?" Professor O. S. Morgan, chairman of food and agriculture in Columbia University, tells us in a professional way, just what to do. He says that under the present milling standard, that seventy-two per cent of wheat grained is contained in the flour, the rest is wasted. That if the women would all agree that their families should eat nothing but bread made of whole-wheat flour, instead of the high patent flour, the percentage of grain contained in flour, would be increased ninety per cent; and four bushels of wheat would produce as much flour as is now produced with five bushels. That if the housewife will cook the potatoes with their skins on, instead of paring away the best part of them, from twelve to fifteen per cent of the food value will be saved. Then, too, if the American housewife will can more fruit and vegetables at home, instead of buying from the stores, they would save twenty-five per cent of the cost of living. Especially does he ask this of the farmer's wife, who could produce on plots of ground now vacant and idle, thus supplying the home with the necessary provisions to be stored for future use, as well as producing for those who cannot do so. This is the time to correct the unpardonable fault of wasting food. Suggest also to your farmer husbands that they take care of their farm implements. A five hints for gardening: Don't try to grow too much in a small space. You may be assured of a steady supply of vegetables in such crops as peas, beans, and lettuce, if planted every three or four weeks whenever the space is available. The quickest crops to mature are turnips, lettuce, peas, beets, and beans these usually require from six to nine weeks. Blossom time of peaches and plums, etc., is a guide time for sowing in the open ground. Spinach heads the list of prolific greens. It is the most popular of all garden plants grown for greens. It requires cool, damp weather. Spinach planted for fall use, does not interfere with garden space for summer gardens. It supplies an abundance of HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 397 greens for the average family for early autumn. Spinach is a good body builder it contains iron. Planting sweet corn. Begin as soon as the soil is warm successive plantings may be made every two or three weeks until late summer. Another method of prolonging the supply, is to plant early, medium and late varieties. The seed should be planted about two inches deep in rows three feet apart, and thinned to a single stalk, every ten to fourteen inches. Don't plant poor varieties. Salsify or Oyster Plant. This is a splendid vegetable for winter use. Don't forget to plant some for this season. It is an all season crop; it grows slowly and is ready for use in late fall and winter. Keep posted on insects, and be prepared to fight them. Get an early start, it is very important. Tomato Plants. In setting out tomato plants, do not crowd them, give plenty of room. Beans. It is still time and always time to plant beans; no garden soil is too rich. Good drainage is also necessary. The scarcity of potash puts wood-ashes to the fore. The potash found in wood-ashes, is one of the best forms for the use of plants. The unleached is better than the leached, as it contains from four to seven per cent more potash than the leached. Beside containing potash, wood-ashes contain about two per cent of nitrogen and twenty per cent lime. Blight. Plants most affected by certain forms of blight are potatoes, cucumbers, celery, egg-plant, and tomatoes. Bordeux mixture sprayed on these plants will help to prevent or check the development of this disease.

CONSERVATION NOTES. The Conservation and Home Economics Committee of the General Board have arranged for enough A. C. teachers to visit every stake Relief Society in Utah during the fruit and vegetable season to give a public demonstration on canning and drying. In connection with this, we have secured a wholesale price on pressure cookers, $1.00 laid down at your town, on a cooker of 200 or 400 quart capacity a day, that retails for $18.00. Each 398 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. ward should take one of these for community use, and to loan about to members. The Consolidated Wagon & Machine Company of this city have opened their warerooms to store them. details have been furnished stake presidents in the circular letter already sent out.

ATTENTION. We urgently request the chairman of the Home Economics to keep in touch with the condition and development of the vegetables and fruits in her own district, that she may be prepared to telegraph or telephone to the Agricultural College about ten days or a week before maturing all such crops the expense of telegram to be borne by the Agricultural College, notifying them when the women of her section will be ready for a demonstration.

FRUIT PRESSERS. We also recommend the Home Economic leaders to investigate the desire of the women in their societies, for the ownership of the fruit pressers which can be purchased at from $2.00 to $2.50, at any of the hardware stores.

FRUIT EVAPORATORS. The Agricultural College is demonstrating the practicability of fruit and vegetable evaporators and dryers which we hope to be able to recommend to our societies in our next issue.

NEED OF CLASS JARS OR ENAMELED TIN CANS. We ask the presidents to make a survey of their societies and ascertain how many fruit jars and enameled tin cans may be needed for use in the putting up of vegetables and fruits in the coming season. Wire Dr. E. G. Peterson, Agricultural College. Logan, the number needed. By so doing, we think we can also get a great reduction on the price of these two articles by ordering in carload lots.

Notes from the Field. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary.

Cottonwood Stake. In the interest of production, conservation and preservation of food supplies, and following the example of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church, the Cottonwood stake Relief Society is offering to its wards prizes for the greatest amount of canned and dried fruits and vegetables; $70 is the amount of money set apart for this purpose and it is to be given in prizes as follows: To the wards drying the greatest amount of fruit; 1st prize, $10; 2nd prize, $5; and 3rd prize, $2.50. The same amounts will be given in prizes for the greatest amounts of dried vegetables and canned corn.

Bear River Stake. The Relief Society of Bear River Stake observed Baby Day in a very interesting way. At the Garland tabernacle, on May 23, demonstrations were given on "Preparation of Milk for the Bottle-fed Baby;" "The Baby's Bed and Bath," with an exhibit of a line of the "most approved clothing for infants." Devices for the care and clothing of children, were also presented in comparison. Lectures were given on "The Care of Children and Instructions to Fathers." Professor C. E. Smith, principal of the Garland High School, gave a talk on "Play and Playgrounds." Appropriate musical selections were also given. As a special feature of food production, the individual members of the Bear River stake Relief Society have been requested by President Margaret W. Manning to plant beans in order that each member may donate one pound of dried beans to the Stake Relief Society. To those who cannot produce beans, the equivalent in money is asked for. These beans will be stored for a time of need.

Salt Lake Stake. Reorganization. The Salt Lake Stake was reorganized May 5, 1917. Mrs. Harriet C. Jensen who has for many years been counselor, then president of this organization found it necessary to tender her resignation on account of her change of residence from Salt Lake 400 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. City to Los Angeles. Mrs. Jensen, who is especially fitted both by nature and educational training for the position which she has occupied, has been zealous, devoted and energetic in her labors in the Relief Society cause and will be greatly missed by her associates in the work as well as by the general organization as a whole. The First Counselor. Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, equally able and equally energetic, was chosen president. The Second Counselor. Mrs. Jessie Penrose Jones was made first counselor. Miss Vilate N. Bennion. Supervisor of Home Economics, was made second counselor. Mrs. Bradford is a woman of education and broad experience. She is the wife of Professor Robert Bradford, of the University of Utah. The other stake officers are: Mrs. Amy Ball Davis, secretary; and Mrs. Rachel L. Folland, treasurer.

North Weber Stake. The Metropolis. Nevada. Relief Society had a very successful entertainment on the 17th of March when the initial meeting of the Relief Society was dramatized. The setting and costumes were all in keeping with the spirit of the occasion.

Pioneer Stake. The Stake Board of the Pioneer stake Relief Society, always forehanded, have some time since inaugurated public demonstrations in canning and fruit preserving, assisted by the expert from the A. C. Many of the wards have put in small and large plots of ground to beans or grain, thus showing what even city people can do when the women take a hand in conservation.

Centerville. As a means of raising funds the Centerville Relief Society recently presented a one-act play, "How a Woman Keeps a Secret." The play was supplemented with a minstrel show and a colonial dance by eight ladies in colonial costumes. So interested was the community in this entertainment that the house was packed, and many were unable to gain entrance. It was necessary, therefore, to repeat the performance. After all expenses were paid, $70 was cleared.

Cassia Stake. Six wards in the Cassia stake are entering the potato contest and three the wheat contest. Other wards that were unable to enter the contest are planting beans.

Duchesne Stake. The Relief Society of Duchesne stake has decided to put forth efforts to raise a large crop of beans. Each member will be expected to plant one quart of seed and harvest them. The beans thus benefit raised will wives of the be given and to the Relief children Society of our men who be have used for the enlisted for service in the Army. The Stake Board has offered a prize of $5 to be given to the Society whose members will dry the most peas, corn and beans for their own families.

Malad Stake. was The Anniversary celebrated with a Day of the which meeting Relief was Society held of at Malad stake the Malad First Ward tabernacle, on March 17. The program consisted of an address of welcome given by Pres. Eliza A. Hall, a brief sketch of the Relief Society, by Bishop Conley, of Portage, and several musical numbers. A delightful luncheon was served to 400 guests at the close of the meeting.

Yellowstone Stake. Mrs. Mary J. Miller of Parker, Idaho, first counselor to Julia E. Miller, was released early in the year from her position in the stake Relief Society, on account of being called, with her husband, to do missionary work in Australia. Before leaving for her new field of work, the Stake Board gave a complimentary luncheon to Mrs. Miller, and presented her with a token of remembrance. Mrs. Miller who has before this, arrived in Australia, is no doubt taking up, actively, the Relief Society work in that distant mission.

Bear River Stake. From the Bear River stake comes the announcement of the death of Sarah Ann Nish, a devoted Relief Society worker, of Plymouth, Utah. Mrs. Nish was born May 4, 1862, in Wellsville, Utah. Her many noble qualities and faithful work in the Relief Society have endeared her to her friends and co-workers, and they all join in expressions of sorrow and regret that she has been called from their midst.

North Davis Stake. A Relief Society was recently organized at Sunset, Utah. Mrs. Mary Bowman who was appointed President is only twenty-four years of age, and is probably the youngest ward president in the organization.

Alpine Stake. The four wards of American Fork celebrated the 17th of March at the Stake tabernacle, the program consisting of songs 402 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. and tableaus. The tableaus were arranged to represent the different activities of Relief Society work. One interesting feature was the representation of President Emmeline P. Wells, by Mrs. Sarah B. Chipman. The makeup of Sister Chipman so resembled our President, that many thought it was Mrs. Wells.

St. George Stake. The women of St. George, Santa Clara and Washington Relief Societies, celebrated the organization of the Relief Society on the 17th of March, by going to the St. George temple to do ordinance work. This was the largest number of women in the temple in one day, in thirty-five years.

Biographical Outline. To promote interest in genealogy, to aid those who desire to make biographical and autobiographical sketches, the St. George stake has arranged the following plan or biographical outline: The English Department in the St. George Academy is using this plan as a basis for theme writing:

I. Ancestor's Nationality. a (Father) 1 Political Affiliation, b (Mother) 2 Religious Affiliations.

II. Joining the Church. 1 First members of the family to join. 2 Were you born before your parents joined?

III. Journey to Utah (Parents or self, date, company, impressive. Your Childhood. 1 Birthplace. 2 Environment. 3 Childhood memories reminiscences.

V. Education.

VI. Religious life. 1 First church joined. Dates. 2 Later church affiliation. Dates.

VII. Residences places length of time. 1 Circumstance of journey to Utah and early life in Dixie.

VIII. Life's work. 1 What it has been? 2 Has it satisfied the ideal of your childhood? 3 What things have most influenced your life? A Public positions held. 5 Occupation.

IX. Present work, if living. 1 Work engaged in at time of death, if desired.

X. Personal impression of biographer.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 403 California Mission San Bernardino and Bible. The Relief Society of San Bernardino was reorganized early in May. Mrs. M. E. Patterson resigned her position as president on account of changing her residence from California to Arizona. Mrs. Louisa Nickerson was appointed president. The change was made at a meeting which was attended by President and Mrs. Joseph Elizabeth E. Robinson, C. Wilcox, of the Mrs. Emily Board. General S. Richards, During and Mrs. the same month a new Relief Society was organized at Bisbee with Mrs. Harriet Maxwell as president and Mrs. Edna Sessions as secretary.

Utah Stake. In a little pamphlet The Teacher published by the Priesthood Presidency of the Utah stake, we find the following article on Relief Society work, signed by Mrs. Martha A. Keeler, Inez K. Allen, Susie Poulson, Relief Society presidency. It contains helpful suggestions on Relief Society work that may be suggested to other organizations: "The Relief Society organization is for all women of the Latter-day Saints who desire to become members and for others who are friendly, and certainly any woman who lets the opportunity of becoming a member pass will lose much that is enjoyable and uplifting. "We hope the teachers of the Priesthood will explain the advantage of this organization in the homes of the Saints, and some of the things which over one thousand women are doing weekly in each of their respective wards. "Tuesday of each week throughout the year a regular session is held, carrying out a definite plan and program. The first Tuesday of the month is devoted to the study of literature and some of the best books extant have been read and reviewed. Besides the literary work the teachers monthly topic is discussed, so that when our lady teachers go into the homes of the Saints they are more or less prepared to talk on some special line and present hour subject. Our teachers have a message of love and good will to all. When these visits are made contributions are received for the poor. "The second Tuesday session is a meeting for work, sewing and other handwork; as, making articles of clothing, bedding, etc., for the needy, or making articles to sell, and the proceeds of sales to go to the poor. Business matters that may need attention are also attended to at the work meeting: and not least of importance are the social benefits enjoyed. 404 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Theology, religion, and genealogical subjects claim attention on the third Tuesday. Religion, and the exercise of the mind in spiritual things, make life more full, and such things give zest to our relief work. Studying the lives of women of the Bible is just now the theme before us. We love and care for the living; we also remember our dead. Genealogy and home-record making keep us happily engaged in these sessions. "The fourth Tuesday is set apart for home economics home keeping, home making, home adornment, helpful, satisfying. "When a fifth Tuesday comes around, the members meet, then divide into groups, and go where love and charity leads to visit the sick, the aged, the lonely, and others who, because of controlling circumstances cannot leave their homes not forgetting, either, the new-comer into the ward. "We also have committees of public service women who are ready and most willing to act as chaperones to young girls, who have no other partners, and want to attend parties or other places of wholesome entertainment. "And there are many, many other things little and great which are among the activities of this organization. Come, then, mothers and daughters and be one of our happy band."

NOTE. It is interesting to know that the activities of our "Mormon" women are appreciated in various parts of the world. Mrs. Leah I. Widtsoe, wife of Dr. John A. Widtsoe, is known nationally as a trained worker in domestic economics. Her lesson which was used in the February, 1916, number of the Relief Society Magazine, has been copied in the Journal of Home Economics, for January, 1917. She published, while associated with the Agricultural College of Utah, a bulletin on "Better Household Equipment," and not long since a letter came clear from Upper Egypt where the bulletin had gone. The correspondent writes:

"West Engineering Office, "Minia, Upper Egypt, "July 25, 1916. "A very good American has recently presented me with a copy of a booklet entitled Labor Saving Devices for the Farm Home, by Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, and published by your company. "Indeed, I found it a very useful booklet. "I regret that at present I have not U. S. stamps to send you for reply. "Please send me a full catalogue of your publications for reference. "Yours truly. (Signed) "Larid Barsum."

EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto Charity Never Faileth.

THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Vol. IV. JULY, 1917. No. 7

The great war that is upon the face of the War. whole earth has long been predicted. The Savior was very explicit in his delineation of the events in the last days to his disciples as recorded in the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew, and in the twenty-first chapter of Luke. In the forty-fifth section of the Doctrine and Covenants the same things are treated at length. Let us quote from this wonderful revelation: "Ye say that ye know that the end of the world cometh; ye say also that ye know that the heavens and the earth shall pass away; and in this ye say truly, for so it is; but these things which I have told you shall not pass away until all shall be fulfilled. And this I have told you concerning Jerusalem, and when that day shall come, shall a remnant be scattered among all nations; but they shall be gathered again but they shall remain until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. And in that day shall be heard of wars and rumors of wars, and the whole earth shall be in commotion, and men's hearts shall fail them, and they shall say that Christ delayeth his coming until the end of the earth. And the love of men shall wax cold, and iniquity shall abound; and when the times of the Gentiles is come in, a light shall break forth among them that sit in darkness, and it shall be the fullness of my gospel; but they receive it not, for they perceive not the light and they turn their hearts from me because of the precepts of men; 406 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. * * * And there shall be earthquakes also in divers places, and many desolations; yet men will harden their hearts against me, and they will take up the sword, one against another, and they will kill one another."

The Lord then indicates the events that are The Jews. today transpiring in Jerusalem. The British forces are marching steadily and surely towards the city of David. Bagdad has fallen the Turks are retreating from stronghold to stronghold. The American Jews are holding a great convention as we go to press demanding liberty and autonomy for the Jews in Jerusalem, listen to what the Savior says: "Then shall the arm of the Lord fall upon the nations. And then shall the Lord set his foot upon this mount, and it shall cleave in twain, and the earth shall tremble, and reel to and fro and the heavens also shall shake. And the Lord shall utter his voice, and all the ends of the earth shall hear it. and the nations of the earth shall mourn, and they that have laughed shall see their folly. And calamity shall cover the mocker, and the scorner shall be consumed, and they that have watched for iniquity shall be hewn down and cast into the fire. And then shall the Jews look upon me and say, What are these wounds in thine hands and in thy feet? Then shall they know that I am the Lord; for I will say unto them, These wounds are the wounds with which I was wounded in the house of my friends. I am he who was lifted up. I am Jesus that was crucified. I am the Son of God. And then shall they weep because of their iniquities; then shall they lament because they persecuted their King. And then shall the heathen nations be redeemed, and they that knew no law shall have part in the first resurrection; and it shall be tolerable for them; "And Satan shall be bound that he shall have no place in the hearts of the children of men. And at that day, when I shall come in my glory, shall the parable be fulfilled which I spake concerning the ten virgins; for they that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived; verily I say unto you, they shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire, but shall abide the day. And the earth shall be given unto them for an inheritance; and they shall multiply and wax strong. and their children shall grow up without sin unto salvation. For the Lord shall be in their midst, and his glory shall be upon them, and he will be their king and their Lawgiver."

Russia that land where many of the A Nation Born descendants of the Ten Tribes are found has in a Day. put the key of revolution in the door of liberty. Mme. Mountford's declarations EDITORIAL. 407 concerning the secret groups of Ephraimites in the terror-ridden land will now have opportunity for public demonstration, and the way will no doubt be opened to preach the gospel in this hitherto hermetically sealed kingdom.

The heathen is astir. Note the unbelievable The Pagan changes in China since the recent astounding Nations. revolution there. Many of our people wonder if all the pagans must be preached to before the coming of the Savior. Read what the Lord says in this section: "And then shall the heathen nations be redeemed, and they that knew no law shall be tolerable for them."

Again, we call your studious attention to the What the Lord panorama of events prophesied of in this resays About elation written 86 years ago: "For verily These Wars. I say unto you, that great things await you; Ye hear of wars in foreign lands, but, behold, I say unto you, they are nigh, even at your doors, and not many years hence ye shall hear of wars in your own lands. Wherefore I, the Lord, have said, gather ye out from the eastern lands, assemble ye yourselves together ye elders of my church; go ye forth into the western countries, call upon the inhabitants to repent and inasmuch as they do repent, build up churches unto me; and with one heart and with one mind, gather up your riches that ye may purchase inheritance which shall hereafter be appointed unto you. And it shall be called the New Jerusalem, a land of peace, a city of refuge, and a place of safety for the saints of the most High God; and the glory of the Lord shall be there, and the terror of the Lord also shall be there, insomuch that the wicked will not come into it, and it shall be called Zion. And it shall come to pass, among the wicked, that every man that will not take his sword against his neighbor, must needs flee unto Zion for safety. And there shall be gathered unto it out of every nation under heaven; and it shall be the only people that shall not be at war one with another. And it shall be said among the wicked, Let us not go up to battle against Zion, for the inhabitants of Zion are terrible; wherefore we cannot stand. And it shall come to pass that the righteous shall be gathered out from among all nations, and shall come to Zion, singing with songs of everlasting joy."

Now, the question arises: When are these When? events to take place. Note these words of the same revelation: "And there shall be men standing in that generation, that shall not pass, until they see an overflowing scourge; for a desolating sickness shall cover the land." 408 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Yea, the word of the Lord concerning his church, established in the last days for the restoration of his people, as he has spoken by the mouth of his prophets, and for the gathering of his saints to stand upon Mount Zion, which shall be the city of New Jerusalem, "Which city shall be built, beginning at the temple lot, which is appointed by the finger of the Lord in the western boundaries of the state of Missouri, and dedicated by the hand of Joseph Smith, Jr., and others with whom the Lord was well pleased. Verily this is the word of the Lord, that the city New Jerusalem shall be built by the gathering of the saints beginning at this place, even the place of the temple, which temple shall be reared in this generation; for verily, this generation shall not all pass away until an house shall be built unto the Lord, and a cloud shall rest upon it, which cloud shall be even the glory of the Lord, which shall fill the house."

Where Shall What then will be our condition? Hear what We Be Safe? in says and shall not be moved; stand '-"places the holy: "But my disciples shall but among the wicked, men shall life up their voices, curse God and die."

We may safely conclude that we are in the midst of the most stirring scenes ever enacted upon this earth, and that every effort we put forth to build up righteousness and to keep our feet fixed on the rock of revelation will help the Savior that much in this final upheaval of world events. This war may quiet down for a time, but the events prophesied will just as surely all be fulfilled as have been those already taking place. Those who stand in holy places will have the spirit of calm reliance upon God, and peace shall be in their souls. In matter how the storms rage about us. When our sons go to war they will go with our blessings and prayers. Should they give up their lives in defense of God and country, we shall still praise God and wait calmly the happy reunion on the other side. Meanwhile we will study the Scriptures, take care of our homes, attend to Relief Society duties, and visit the temples those holy places whenever we can. Thus fortified we shall take our own places in the world's history and do our modest "bit," to further the fulfilment of prophecy.

Guide Lessons. AUGUST.

Home Economics LESSON I. CANNING SOUPS. The canning of vegetable soups, purees, and consomes is thoroughly practical, and should be a part of our economy work. It will be a delight next winter to be able to reach to a shelf for a home-canned jar of soup, open it, heat it, and serve within a few minutes' time. We are accused of being a wasteful people, wasting much of the products of garden and farm. The bones that are often discarded when meat is being packed for winter use contain valuable food. Let us develop, through soup making and soup canning, habits of economy and education in thrift. The bones from beef and chicken are by far the most common, though others can be used.

SOUP CANNING RECIPES.

Soup Stock. Secure twenty-five pounds of beef hocks, joints, and bones containing marrow. Strip off the fat and meat and crack bones with a hatchet or cleaver. Put the broken bones in a thin cloth sack and place them in a large kettle containing five gallons of cold water. Simmer (do not boil) for six or seven hours. Do not salt while simmering. Skim off all fat. This should make about five gallons of stock. Pack hot in glass jars, bottles, or enamel or lacquered tin cans. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize fifty minutes if using a hot-water bath outfit; forty minutes if using a water-seal or a five pound steam-pressure outfit; thirty minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. (Check list of supplies to be provided before beginning work.) 25 pounds of beef bones. 5 gallons of water.

Vegetable Soup. Soak 1/4 pound lima or navy beans and 1 pound rice for 12 hours. Cook 1/2 pound pearl barley for 2 hours. Blanch 1 pound carrots, 1 pound onions, 1 medium-sized potato, and 1 red pepper for 3 minutes and blanch. Prepare the vegetables and cut into small cubes. Mix thoroughly lima or navy beans, rice, barley. Of carrots, onions, potatoes, red pepper. Fill glass jars or the  410 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. enameled tin cans three-fourths full of the above mixture of vegetables and cereals. Make a smooth paste of one-half pound of wheat flour and blend in 5 gallons of soup stock. Boil 3 minutes and add 4 ounces salt. Pour this stock over vegetables and fill cans. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize 110 minutes if using the hot-water bath outfit; 90 minutes if using a water-seal or a 5-pound steam pressure outfit; 55 minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. (Check list of necessary supplies.) 1/4 pound lima or navy beans. 1 pound rice. 1/2 pound pearl barley. 1 pound carrots. 1 pound onions. 1 medium-sized potato. 1 red pepper. 1/2 pound flour. 4 ounces salt. 5 gallons soup stock.

Bean Soup. Soak 3 pounds of beans 12 hours in cold water. Cut 2 pounds of ham meat into 1/2 inch cubes and place in a small sack. Place the beans, ham, and 4 gallons of water in a kettle and boil slowly until the beans are very soft. Remove the ham and beans from the liquor and mash the beans fine. Return the ham and mashed beans to the liquor and add 5 gallons of soup stock and seasoning, and bring to boil. Fill into glass jars and tin cans while hot. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Process 2 hours if using a hot-water bath outfit; 110 minutes if using a water-seal outfit; 90 minutes if using a 5-pound steam pressure outfit; 70 minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. (Check list.) 5 gallons stock. 3 pounds beans. 2 pounds lean ham. 4 gallons water. Salt and pepper to taste.

Tomato Pulp for Cream of Tomato Soup. Place tomatoes in a wire basket or piece of cheesecloth and plunge into boiling water from 1 to 3 minutes. Plunge into cold water. Remove the skin and core. Place tomatoes in a kettle and boil 30 minutes. Pass the tomato pulp through a sieve. Pack in glass jars and tin cans while hot, and add a level teaspoonful of salt per quart. Partially seal the glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize 25 minutes if using a hot-water bath outfit; 20 minutes if using a water-seal or a 5-pound steam-pressure outfit; 18 minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit.

Cream of Tomato Soup from Canned Tomato Pulp. Place 1 quart of tomato pulp in a kettle. Add one-eighth teaspoonful of baking soda, pepper and salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar. Boil for 7 minutes. Place 1 quart of milk and 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in another kettle and simmer for 7 minutes. Add the contents of the tomato kettle to the contents of the milk kettle and boil for 5 minutes. The product is then ready to serve. (Check list.) 1 quart can tomato pulp. Two teaspoonful baking soda. 2 teaspoonfuls granulated sugar. 1 quart milk. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. Salt and pepper to taste.

Chicken-Soup Stock. Place 30 pounds chicken in 10 gallons of cold water and simmer for 5 hours. Remove meat and bones, then strain. Add sufficient water to make 10 gallons of stock. Fill glass jars or tin cans with the hot stock. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Process 110 minutes if using a hot-water bath outfit; 90 minutes if using a water-seal outfit; 70 minutes if using a 5-pound steam-pressure outfit; 55 minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. This stock is used to make soup where the term "chicken-soup stock" is employed. (Check list.) 30 pounds chicken. 10 gallons water.

Vegetables (Mixed) without Stock. Many people would like vegetable soup during the winter season, but find it impracticable to secure the soup stock during the summer season when the vegetables are so abundant that they are rotting in the garden. It is suggested that the vegetable portion of the soup be canned during the summer and made available when the soup stock is prepared during the winter. It makes the preparation of the soup a simple matter whenever the stock is available. Soak 6 pounds of lima or navy beans and 4 pounds of dry peas over night. Boil each 1/2 hour. Blanch 16 pounds of carrots, 6 pounds of cabbage, 3 pounds of celery, 6 pounds of turnips, 4 pounds of okra, 1 pound of onions, and 4 pounds of parsley for 3 minutes and dip in cold water quickly. Prepare the vegetables and chip them into small cubes. Chop the onions and celery extra fine. Mix all of the vegetables together thoroughly and season to taste. Pack in glass jars or tin cans. Fill with boiling water. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Process 110 minutes if using a hot-water bath outfit; 75 minutes if using a water-seal outfit or a 5-pound steam-pressure outfit; 55 minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. (Check list.) 16 pounds carrots (small.) 6 pounds cabbage. 3 pounds celery stems and leaves. 6 pounds turnips. 6 pounds lima or navy beans. 4 pounds okra. 1 pound onions. 4 pounds parsley. 4 pounds dry peas. Salt and pepper to taste.

MEAT CANNING RECIPES.

Poultry and Game. Recipe No. 1 Kill fowl and draw at once; wash carefully and cool; cut into convenient sections. Place in wire basket or cheesecloth and boil until meat can be removed from bones. Remove from boiling liquid and remove meat from bones; pack closely into glass jars; fill jars with pot liquid, after it has been concentrated one-half; add level teaspoonful of salt per quart of meat, for seasoning; put rubber and cap in position, not tight; sterilize the length of time given below for the one particular type of outfit you are using: Water bath, homemade or commercial 4 hrs Water seal, 214 4 5 pounds steam pressure 3 10-15 pounds steam pressure 14 " Remove jars; tighten covers; invert to cool and test the joint; wrap jars with paper to prevent bleaching.

Recipe No. 2 Kill fowl and draw at once; wash carefully and cool; cut into convenient sections and pack at once into glass jars; fill with boiling water; add level teaspoonful of salt per quart; put rubber and cap in position, not tight, and sterilize the length of time given below for the one particular type of outfit you are using: GUIDE LESSONS. 413 Water bath, homemade or commercial 4 1/2 hrs. Water seal, 214F 5 pounds steam pressure 4 " 10-15 pounds steam pressure Remove jars; tighten covers; invert to cool and test the joint; wrap with paper to prevent bleaching.

Fresh Beef. As soon as beef has been killed, cook quickly and keep cool for about 24 hours. Cut the beef into convenient pieces for handling, about three-fourths pound in weight, and roast or boil slowly for one-half hour. Cut into small pieces, remove gristle, bone, and excessive fat, and pack directly into glass jars; fill with gravy from the roasting-pan, or pot liquid, concentrated to one-half its volume; put rubber and cap in position, not tight, and sterilize the length of time given below for the one particular type of outfit you are using: Water bath, homemade or commercial 4 1/2 hrs. Water seal, 214 5 pounds steam pressure 10-15 pounds steam pressure 2 Remove jars; tighten covers; invert to cool and test the joint; wrap jars with paper to prevent bleaching.

LESSON II. REMODELING CLOTHING. The points to consider in all remodeling and remaking are: (1) Is the article worth remodeling? (It does not always pay to make over old clothes). (2) If so how can it be done with the least expenditure of time and money? If an article is not very much out of date it can often be rendered wearable by the addition of a new yoke, new sleeves, fresh collar and cuffs, or the lengthening of a skirt. Nothing in styles changes more rapidly than the sleeve, and often altering sleeves or adding new ones is all that is necessary to bring a dress up to date. Common alterations are: (1) Changing style of sleeve. To make sleeves smaller, use a smaller pattern and cut over. To make larger add an underarm or a piece under a tuck, or put a piece of trimming lengthwise over the seam. If you do the latter, bring the seam in upper part of sleeve near back of arm. At the present time sleeves are often made of a different material than the rest of the dress and so new sleeves may easily be added. Sleeves may be lengthened by the addition of a cuff, or the lower part of sleeve may be joined to the upper just below elbow with a tuck or band of trimming. (2) Lengthening skirt. Put a false hem on, or if more length is desired baste a tuck, in bottom of skirt and set lower part under, stitching tuck and piece to skirt at the same time. Very often a hem of different material may be added, serving as a trimming as well as lengthening the skirt. Garments of wash material (3) may be lengthened Narrowing by Decide a skirt. bands of how insertion or braid. many inches are to be taken out and at what places it can best be done. Take from the back edge of gores running off to seam if skirt is fitted at bins six inches below hip line. Full skirts may be recut into narrow ones. (4) Altering waists. A waist may be lengthened by adding a belt between waist and skirt. Wash waists which have become worn along the collar or wrists and are not worth a new collar or cuffs can be utilized by cutting away torn parts and wearing with a Dutch collar in summer. Sleeves can be cut short if desired and finished with a suitable edge. When waists are worn underneath the arm and are worth it, rip the sleeves at armhole and underarm seams and replace with new pieces.

GARMENTS DECIDEDLY OUT-OF-DATE. If a garment is decidedly out of style, the best thing to do is to rip it, mend if necessary, clean and press thoroughly and remake. When overskirts are popular and dresses are made of a combination of materials as at present, old dresses can readily be made into up-to-date ones. Half worn clothing can very often be made into dresses, suits and coats for small boys and girls. Very often the materials in such garments will be much better grade than one can afford to buy for children. It is important that all materials be thoroughly cleaned before being remade. Discarded clothing of no other value can be washed, cut in strips and woven into rugs, or given to the ward Relief Society.

CARE AND REPAIR OF CLOTHING AND MILLINERY. Ruskin says, "Clothes carefully cared for and rightly worn, show a balance of mind and self-respect." The girl who wishes to appear well dressed and properly gowned will not neglect the little things that and to the freshness and durability of her clothing. The little attentions, such as replacing a hook, fastening a button, removing spots, brushing care GUIDE LESSONS. 415 fully, pressing, hanging on hangers adapted to the article, replacing soiled collars and cuffs by fresh ones, airing and folding along seams as near as possible, take but a few minutes if done promptly, and keep the wardrobe in good order.

SUGGESTIONS. Keep coats, waists, and dresses, on coat hangers, and skirts on the kind that will keep the bands straight. Air clothing when it is removed at night, and wear a different set to sleep in. If moist clothing is thrown around in heaps or tossed into a dark corner of a closet or trunk, it can never appear fresh again unless it can be laundered. The wearing of clothes is not what tells so sadly upon them, but the manner in which they are cared for. A few garments nicely made, well fitted and properly cared for are preferable to twice the number of inferior quality and make. Waists in reserve may be kept in bureau drawers or boxes. They should first be carefully followed and if fancy, the sleeves and bows stuffed with tissue paper. a Good gowns if hung in closets should have cover bags slipped over them. Skirts and coats with bias seams are not improved by hanging, as the bias part are apt to stretch out of place. All steel pins should be removed from clothing, even if it is put away for just one night, as the least dampness may cause rust spots. Pressing adds much to the appearance and durability of a suit or skirt, as well as to the comfort of the wearer. Press with a hot iron and damp cloth on the right side over a thick pad until nearly dry; then turn the garment on the wrong side and press dry. Woolen goods will mark or shine if pressed without a cloth, and the texture of silk materials will be injured if the iron is permitted to get too hot.

FOOTWEAR. Care of shoes and rubbers. It is better to have two pairs of shoes and alternate in wearing them. The pair not in use should be kept on shoe trees or something improvised to keep them stretched. A good polish keeps the shoes looking neat and preserves the leather. When shoes get wet the thread rots and soles separate; rubbers will protect them. These will last a long time with a little care. Wash them promptly after wearing. Do not let mud dry on them nor leave them in direct sunlight or near heaters, as heat spoils and mud rots them. Soft paper stuffed into heels and toes keeps them in good shape. Adhesive plaster or a few stitches will help if they become torn or split at the sides.

PACKING AWAY. Care of clothing between seasons. All clothing for the season should be carefully brushed, cleaned, repaired and put away RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. in tight cotton bags, boxes or packages. If these are plainly labeled with their contents, time will be saved when they are needed. Woolen articles should receive a good sun bath and careful inspection for possible traces of moths. Gum camphor, black pepper, tobacco leaves and tar paper are some of the preventatives that can be used in packing clothes away. Garments that are outgrown should be disposed of. In folding lay the articles on a flat, large surface and fold on the seams if possible. paying particular attention to sleeves and collars. Coat lapels should be turned to lie flat, collars turned up, and the coat folded through the center seam. Summer clothing should be clean and smoothly folded. Blue tissue paper is said to prevent white materials from turning yellow.

COLORED MATERIALS. Care of Colored Clothes Before Washing. It pays to set colors before laundering. For blue, use one-half cup of vinegar and one teaspoonful of salt to a pail of cold water. Lavenders may be set with a teaspoonful of sugar of lead to a pail of cold water. Pinks and blacks may be treated with salt, two cups to a pail of cold water. Pinks, lavenders, reds, creams, yellows, in fact nearly all colored materials should be allowed to soak several hours before washing.

Renovating and Cleaning of Clothing. Never attempt to make over and clean clothes unless the material is good enough to make it worth while to do the work well. Faded materials may be freshened by cleaning and dyeing, but directions should be carefully followed in the selection of dyes and the process involved.

STAINS. Stains may be removed easily while fresh. Fruit stains may be removed by pouring boiling water from a height of a foot or two through the fabric stretched over a basin. Ink stains may be removed by squeezing the cloth out of milk, treating with warm water, or with a paste of uncooked starch and milk. Iron rust may be removed from linen and cotton by using lemon juice and salt. Grease spots may be removed with a good soap and hot water, or if the material will not stand laundering, it may be treated with absorbents such as French chalk, magnesia powder, or blotting paper and a hot iron. If the iron affects the goods, it should be held above it, not permitted to come in direct contact. Blood stains may be removed by making a paste of starch and applying it to the spot. It may be necessary to repeat the process several times. When solvents are used they should be the purest and best. Use enough to thoroughly cleanse the article. Benzine, line, naphtha and the explosive solvents should be kept away GUIDE LESSONS. 417 from the fire. Turpentine is good for removing grass and paint stains.

MENDING. Since materials can be produced so cheap, mending is becoming lost a art. However, no one disputes the utility of mending. A well made garment should not be discarded when a patch neatly put in will prolong its usefulness. Children, especially, should not be allowed to wear garments out of repair for it has a demoralizing influence upon their characters. "A stitch in time saves nine." This is particularly true of knitted materials that frequently come to pieces before you are aware. Net may be helpful in repairing large holes. The size of the thread used in darning should correspond to that of the material. In mending the knees of boys' trousers, set in a piece large enough to be taken into the seams and the patch will not be so noticeable. Bodices worn out under the arm may be best mended by setting in a new underarm piece. To lengthen garments, let down the hem of the skirt and face it, or apply a false hem or let cut tucks. Facings may be applied to neck and sleeves.

RENOVATION OF MILLINERY MATERIALS.

Velvet. Velvet may be freshened and wrinkles removed by steaming. To steam, put a wet cloth over a hot iron and draw the velvet back and forth through the steam, having the wrong side of the velvet next to cloth. Brush with a soft bristle brush to raise the pile. Spots may be removed from velvet and plush by sponging with chloroform (never use in a closed room.) Chloroform will often restore color to faded materials.

Felt. Felt of any color may be cleaned with sandpaper. Cover a small wooden block with No. 00 sandpaper and use the block as a brush. Begin at center top of hat and proceed in a circular direction until the whole hat has been cleaned. Remove the sandpaper, cover the block with velvet and go over the hat as before. The velvet will smooth down the felt. If the velvet block is rubbed on a hot iron and then on a block of paraffin wax it will be still more effective. White felts may be cleaned by rubbing with French chalk, powdered borax, or cornmeal.

Natural Colored Straw. Hats of milan, leghorn, etc., in natural color may be cleaned with a paste of the juice of one lemon and two tablespoonfuls of sulfur. Rub the hat thoroughly with this paste and when dry brush off the powder.

White Straw. White straw hats including panamas may be cleaned with a weak solution of oxalic acid water. Dissolve a tablespoon of oxalic acid in one pint of water. Scrub the hat quickly with the solution using a stiff brush. (Do not put the hands in the acid.) After the hat has been cleaned rinse the acid off by going over the hat with a cloth wet in clear water. Avoid getting the straw too wet as this causes the hat to lose its shape. When nearly dry the hat may be pressed lightly under a damp cloth. Prepared cleaners for white straw may be purchased at the drug stores.

Panama. Panamas may also be cleaned by washing in soap and water.

Colored Straws. Colored straws, if not faded, may be freshened by washing with a sponge wet in wood alcohol. This method is very good for black straws. Wood alcohol being poisonous should be kept away from children.

To Renew Faded Straw Hats. Badly faded or soiled shapes can be dyed the same or a darker shade with one of the several reliable hat dyes for sale at drug stores. When carefully applied the hat may be made to look like new.

To Stiffen Straw. Shapes which have lost their stiffness may be stiffened by pressing lightly under a damp cloth. Never press directly on any straw: have a cloth between the straw and the iron.

To Change the Shape. To change the shape of a straw hat dampen the hat and while soft and pliable, bend into desired shape. Catch up brim where desired with strong thread. Leave until dry.

To Make a Prim Droop. Hold the hat up and press a bit of the under brim at a time. The movement should be sideways from the crown outward.

Lace. Silk laces should be dry cleaned or washed in gasoline. Cotton laces can be washed in soap and water. Fill a fruit jar half full of warm soap suds or borax water. Put lace in jar and fasten top securely. Shake well until lace is thoroughly washed. Refill jar with rinse water and rinse by shaking the lace in the jar. Take out the lace and spread it on a Dry cloth pulling the scallops into shape. When dry, the lace may be pressed lightly. In washing any kind of lace the main point to remember is to avoid rubbing.

Ribbon. Ribbons may be cleaned by sponging with damp lured alcohol. Good ribbons may be washed in soap and water. Always press between cloths or paper.

Feathers. White or colored feathers may be washed in a thin paste of gasoline and flour, or gasoline and plaster of paris. To one pint of gasoline and two tablespoons of flour or plaster my paris. Clean the feather by putting it in the paste and rubbing it from the stem to the tips of the flues. Do not rub the flues back and forth but move the fingers always in the same direction. When the feather is clean, draw it through the tightly closed hand to squeeze out the gasoline. Shake a few minutes; then finish drying in cornstarch. Spread the cornstarch on a piece of tissue paper and rub the feather lightly in the starch until dry. Shake the starch out and the feather will be found to be clean and fluffy.

Washing a White Plume. When a white or light plume becomes badly soiled it can be washed with soap and water, the disadvantage of this method being that the feather must be recurled. Make a suds of ivory soap and warm water. Let the feather soak in this an hour or two. Then wash by drawing through the hand. When clean rinse the feather first in clear water and then in wood alcohol. After squeezing out the alcohol dry the feather in cornstarch. Recurl, using a silver knife.

Black or Dark Colored Feathers. Black or dark feathers may be cleaned by washing in wood alcohol. Shake the feather until dry.

Fur. Fur may be cleaned by brushing thoroughly with very hot bran. Use a stiff brush. Have the fur stretched firmly to the ironing board. After brushing, shake the fur to remove the bran. This not only cleans the fur but also makes it glossy.

Flowers. Soiled flowers become freshened and stiffened by shaking them over a steaming cloth. Faded flowers can be dipped into a tinting preparation or they can be touched up with a small paint brush and usually look like new. To make the tinting preparation, dissolve oil paint in gasoline. The oil paint can be bought in small tubes in a great variety of colors. Such things as chiffons, thin silks, malines and feathers can also be tinted in gasoline and oil paint. Tinting is different from dyeing, and only light shades can be produced, red paint tinting pink, etc, Tinting should never be done near a fire or in a closed room. Always test a sample before putting in the article to be colored.

A HANDY TABLE. The kitchen table is made very handy by covering the top with zinc. Have that part of the table which extends out from the frame sawed off to within one inch of the frame, then cover with zinc, using small nails to fasten the edges neatly under the top of the table. Hot dishes from the oven can be set on this without harm to the table, and for various other purposes it will be found very useful.

FOOD PROTECTION The Utah State Defense Council, aided by Agricultural College, Logan, have made it possible to offer the different Ward organizations in Utah and Idaho at cost a limited number of National Steam Pressure Canning Outfits A CARLOAD of Junior No. 1 Outfits with a capacity of 200 to 400 ends daily is expected in SALT LAKE CITY, About JULY 1a, 1917. The Consolidated Wagon and Machine Company have been requested to distribute these goods. Address Orders to CONSOLIDATED WAGON & MACHINE COMPANY SALT LAKE CITY Orders must be accompanied by cash in registered mail, money order or bank check, in amounts of $15.00 for each