JUNE 1917 (Vol. IV No. 6)  
CONTENTS:

The Star-Spangled Banner 301  
A Widowed Mother to her Son Alfred Lambourne 303  
Another Widowed Mother 304  
General Conference of the Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman 305  
The Disease Germ in Utah 331  
June Entertainments Morag 333  
Pin Money Suggestions Morag 335  
Evolution of the American Flag A. B. L. 337  
Common Sense 339  
Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde 340  
Current Topics James H. Anderson 347  
Editorial: Our Conference 349  
Guide Lessons 351  

ADVERTISERS:

In Russia, under the new form of government, women and men are to have equal elective franchise privileges.

119 ships in American ports were taken over by the United States at the breaking off of relations with Germany and Austria, in April.

Aliens from either Germany, Austria, Bulgaria, or Turkey, in the United States, have been required to surrender all war weapons until peace is declared.

Congress passed a law for a seven-billion dollar bond issue, and the same week the U.S. Government loaned Great Britain two hundred million dollars to aid in the war.

Austria, then Turkey, broke with the United States when the latter announced a state of war with Germany, though there was no real necessity therefor except to comply with German wishes.

Special commissions of high dignitaries came from Great Britain, France, and Italy to the United States, during April, to confer with the administration here relative to the conduct of the war.

The first U-submarine sunk by an American boat was that to which one shot from the Mongolia, an armed freight ship, brought final disaster, while the submarine was maneuvering to torpedo the great liner.

The U.S. agricultural department has issued a series of bulletins on "how to grow potatoes," while numbers of farmers have replied, asking the experts to demonstrate their theories by actual farm work.

Bread prices in Salt Lake City in April reached fifteen cents per pound-and-a-quarter loaf, or twelve cents per pound; in London, England, it was 11d. per four-pound loaf, or five and one-half cents per pound—both loaves made from American flour.

Mexico might have been a good base for Germany to make an advance into the United States, if it were not the fact that the British fleet prevents the Germans from getting into Mexico with any considerable force.

An incendiary fire and explosion at Eddystone, Pa., caused the destruction of a big munitions plant there, the loss of 112 lives, and the injury of 121 other persons, in April, as the first serious event in this country following the declaration of war with Germany.

Norway fears to cease selling nickel to Germany lest the latter will make an attack on the basis of Norway's being unneutral. At the same time, the nickel is used in making torpedoes with which 420 Norwegian ships already have been sunk and 450 Norwegian sailors killed.

Conscription of youths between 19 and 25, for the U.S. army, has been the great war question in Congress. The objection to the system is that it takes for army training mere youths, at a time when their moral character is more liable to injury from the associations there than at any other period in life.

Equal suffrage for women with men in Great Britain has been promised by the British premier, David Lloyd George. He assumes this attitude on the question by reason of the patriotic services of the women there during the great war, and not because of any suffragist agitation.

The U-Boat policy of Germany has been a success in at least one respect—that of bringing a declaration of war from the U.S. on the morning of April 6, this being followed by similar action on the part of Brazil, Cuba, and other heretofore neutral nations.

In Palestine, the British forces have made notable advances west of Jerusalem; and the Mesopotamian expedition has advanced 100 miles beyond Bagdad. This makes it appear that the redemption of the Holy Land from Turkish rule may be an event of 1917.

The European war has undergone considerable change on the western front, by British and French successes in great battles during April. But the Germans have an even stronger line than now, along the Meuse in France and Belgium, if they should be driven back to it; therefore these successes by no means indicate a near ending of the war.

EDITORIAL

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Motto: Charity Never Faileth.

THE GENERAL BOARD

Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President  
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor  
Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor  
Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary  
Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary  
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer  
Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon  
Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas  
Miss Edna May Davis  
Dr. Romania B. Penrose  
Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings  
Miss Sarah McLelland  
Mrs. Emily S. Richards  
Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox  
Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon  
Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth  
Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley  
Mrs. Janette A. Hyde  
Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie  
Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune  
Miss Sarah Eddington  
Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry  
Miss Lillian Cameron  
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor Susa Young Gates  
Business Manager Janette A. Hyde  
Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman  
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Vol. IV. JUNE, 1917. No. 6

OUR CONFERENCE.

The Annual Conference of the Relief Society, held in April, 1917, was blessed with the presence and teachings of our beloved leader and president, Joseph F. Smith; and no less important were his exhortations and blessings pronounced in our own Conference than those wondrous texts he delivered at the opening session of the General Conference. Read his remarks in these pages; note how practically he deals with our wheat and conservation questions; his tender solicitude for the youth and the necessity of parents training them in the spiritual things of the kingdom; and withal, reverence for the aged and parents should develop with the growth of youth.

The fashions of the day received careful attention not only by his inspired utterances but also in the addresses of our counselors, Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith. The folly of youth needs checking in these extreme times. Early marriages were advocated by the President, and he gave leaves from his own rich experiences to garnish this advice.

The remarks of our general president, Emmeline B. Wells, were remarkable in clearness and pertinency. She dwelt on the loyal attitude of the members of this Society to the Church and to our Country. She again lifted up their voice in testimony of the Prophet Joseph's mission, and referred in moving tones to her commission to urge the sisters to store grain as given by President Brigham Young. Strange, is it not, that this solitary historic figure should be left on the earth to see the actual fulfilment of her divinely appointed mission! How rarely Moses enters the promised land.

The practice of so-called birth-control or race-suicide was pronounced a crime by President Smith and Counselor Julina L. Smith. Latter-day Saints who indulge in this will not be blood-guiltless. The resolutions afterwards presented to the Conference were sustained by the hearty vote of the President and the Presiding Bishop as well as by the whole Conference. Ceasing to bear children or limiting offspring would not make right wrong, nor cleanse the earth from sin. To make of marriage a licensed debauchery could never eliminate criminals nor the feeble-minded; rather would it tend to increase all the fruits of selfishness and sin.

The concluding thought given by President Smith is one that we shall do well to ponder: God, not man, is at the head of this work. Not the President, nor any of his predecessors in office—not the Prophet himself is at the head of this work—but God stands at the head; Christ is the possessor of all authority, power, honor and glory. When men and women seek glory, fame, and honors, when their feet hurry after the flattery of men and their souls are unsatisfied with the meek gifts of silent service, then should they pause and consider well this parting exhortation. For it applies to our Relief Society in supreme measure. Not Joseph Smith who organized this Society, in 1842: not Brigham Young who reorganized it, in 1866; not Joseph F. Smith who regulated and gave life and the spirit and genius of growth and progress to its weakened and debilitated forces, in 1911; no, nor Eliza R. Snow, Mary Fielding Smith, Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sarah M. Kimball, M. Isabella Home, nor Emmeline B. Wells—not any nor all of these have imparted the creative life and inspired development of this great original Relief Society. It is the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints of which Christ stands at the head. His is the work, the spirit, the power and the inspiration. Men and women who have sought to follow His guidance, all give Him the honor and the glory. How good it is to serve Him and how sweet are His teachings!

Guide Lessons. JUNE.

Home Economics LESSON I.

Note. These lessons may be subdivided and arranged for four meetings.

PRESERVATION OF FRUITS AND VEGETABLES.

It is the patriotic duty of every American citizen to help in every way possible in the production and conservation of our food products. One of the very best ways of doing this is to economize in food waste. To waste anything is a crime. Women and girls can help in this important matter by canning and putting up for next winter fruits, vegetables, meats, soups, anything and everything that will have a food value. The high cost of living, the shortage of food supplies, have made it necessary to urge this matter very earnestly. Not only can fruits be canned successfully and economically in glass and tin, but so also can all kinds of fresh vegetables, all kinds of meats and soup stocks. This will enable us to have on hand at a moment's notice any and all of the necessaries of life.

Since canning is a means of preserving food from bacteria, it is well to know something of their characteristics. First, they are so small that they are invisible except under a powerful lens. On about this account, people either don't believe in them, or forget. Second, the air, the dust and all objects are covered with them. Third, temperature affects them. Cold, even to freezing point, does not kill them, but only prevents their growth. Sunshine and scalding heat applied a certain length of time, destroys them. Moderate heat or normal body temperature is the best possible medium for their growth. Fourth, some bacteria form a spore or small seed which is covered with a hard coat. When the seed bursts through the covering, another germ is formed. These spores are not easily killed even by intense heat. Fifth, meats, sugars and starches are spoiled when exposed to the germ-laden air and dust. Excess of sugar, as in preserving fruits, kills germ life. Acid fruits are not readily attacked, and an excess, as in pickling vegetables or meats, destroys them.

STERILIZATION.

To render an article sterile is to treat it in such a manner that germ life is entirely killed, and to keep the article under such conditions that germs cannot gain access to it. The first is accomplished by exposing articles to direct sunlight, heat, wet or dry, and the application of acids, salts or spices: the second by sealing the articles in air-tight sterile containers.

GENERAL RULES FOR CANNING.

(1) Cleanliness of person, equipment and surroundings is necessary to insure success.  
(2) Small utensils such as forks, knives and spoons should be kept in a pan of boiling water when not in use. Rubbers should be dipped in boiling water. Jars and lids should be placed in cool water, allowed to come to a boil and kept boiling until needed.  
(3) Vegetables and fruits should be gathered as soon before canning as possible. Peas are particularly liable to infection.  
(4) Seal jars while hot. If necessary to steam the second day on account of the possible presence of spores, do not loosen the lid. If it is desired to add anything to a jar that has been sealed and cooled, steam again as a precaution.  
(5) Handle materials and utensils as little as possible. Do not touch the interior of jars with the fingers. Use a long handled fork or spoon to remove them from the boiling water.  
(6) Label, giving date, variety of vegetable and fruit, method and time used in process. This will aid in standardizing the work.  
(7) Never use chemical powders to preserve food. If they are strong enough to destroy germs and spores, they are likely to have an injurious effect on human beings sooner or later.

METHODS OF FOOD PRESERVATION.

Sun-Drying. Place fruit or vegetable to be dried in a dripper and set in a moderately hot oven. Allow to steam for an hour. Put on racks made of fine screening, cover with a cloth to protect from flies and other dirt and allow to remain in direct sunlight for a day, turning often.

Heat-Smoking or Curing (applied to meat). Make a brine solution as follows: To each 100 lbs. meat, 8 to 12 lbs. common salt, 3 lbs. brown sugar, 3 ounces saltpeter, 6 gallons water. Boil all together gently for one hour in a clean vessel. Cool before using. Trim meat to proper shape and size. Lay in barrel, meat side up, placing heavy weights on top of pieces. Cover with cold brine at least two inches above the top piece. Keep meat continually covered with brine. Time for keeping meat in the brine: small pieces, three to four weeks; large pieces, about eight weeks. The meat should be smoked after it is taken from the brine or it is liable to spoil in warm weather. Time for smoking meat: three to four days. Sacking the meat: After the meat is cooled, protect it by placing in strong flour sacks, tied tightly and painted on the outside with the following: For 100 pounds ham or bacon—3.0 pounds of barite (barium sulphate), .06 pounds of glue, .08 pounds of chrome yellow (lead chromate), .40 pounds of flour. Fill a 3- to 4-gallon bucket one-half full of water. Mix in flour. Dissolve the lead chromate in one quart water in a separate vessel. Add this solution and the glue to the flour and water. Bring to a boil, and while boiling, add the barium sulphate slowly, stirring constantly. The painting of the sack keeps the meat moist by rendering it impervious to the air. Pickling is accomplished by the use of salt, vinegar, spice and oil.

METHODS OF CANNING.

Open Kettle. The food is cooked completely and then poured into jars previously sterilized. In order to avoid possible infection, it is safest to place the filled jars in a boiler and steam for at least twenty minutes.

Cold Pack. The food is packed into sterilized jars, with or without liquid, and capped loosely. The jars are placed in a receptacle containing water, and steamed. For length of process see table. The receptacles that may be used are as follows:

(a) Wash Boiler. The boiler should be fitted with a piece of wood, wire screening or some device to keep the bottles from touching the bottom. A cloth should be placed over the top and the lid pressed tightly down to keep in the steam.  
(b) The Oven. A number of jars can be handled at once. An asbestos mat or a pan containing water in which to set the jars is necessary. The oven should be hot at first. Allow at least an hour additional time for this method.  
(c) The Pressure Cooker. The use of the pressure cooker is recommended wherever it is possible to secure one, as it saves time, energy and fuel. The same methods exactly are used as with other outfits such as the wash boiler, excepting that only one-third to one-fourth of the time is required to perfectly sterilize the products. If the tin cans are used, secure the enameled or lacquered sanitary cans. It would be well also to secure a small self-sealing outfit so that the cans can be sealed without solder and acid. One of those outfits costs but little and can be used by the entire community. I would suggest that a number of families unite and form a canning club, buy a steam pressure outfit and also a self-sealer outfit. The total cost of these outfits need not exceed $35. If seven families unite on this it will be $5 for each family, which amount can be saved three or four times over by the use of them. In time, energy, fuel and kindly feelings or disposition.

All of the fruits and vegetables may be divided into two great classes as follows:

Protein Foods. Corn, beans, peas and other vegetables with a large protein content are best canned with a water seal or steam outfit. Proteins are a favorable medium for the growth of bacteria, and such vegetables require a high degree of heat and a longer period of sterilization. Moisture also is favorable to the growth of bacteria, and free water serves as a medium to carry the developing spores to other parts of the can. It is therefore believed that the drier these foods are packed the less likely they are to spoil.

Acid Products. Tomatoes, rhubarb, gooseberries and other fruits or vegetables with a high percentage of acid keep most easily. Such fruits and vegetables shrink most in canning. Blackberries, red raspberries, and some other of the more acid products should be canned in glass or lacquered tin, as they lose color easily. Pumpkin and squash should always be canned in glass or in lacquered tin. Rhubarb should always be canned in glass. Apples and blackberries deteriorate with keeping and should not be kept over from year to year. It is best to market these products soon after canning.

RECIPES FOR CANNING.

For convenience the fruits may be classified into four distinct groups, or classes, such as soft fruits, sour berry fruits, hard fruits, and citrus fruits.

1. Soft fruits, such as strawberries, blackberries, dewberries, sweet cherries, blueberries, peaches, apricots, etc.

Recipe for canning soft fruits. Can the same day fruit is picked. Grade and rinse the fruit by pouring water over it through a strainer. Cull, seed, and stem. Pack immediately in glass jars or tin cans. Add boiling hot syrup of 18 per cent density (thin). Place rubber and top in place. Partially tighten. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize in hot water bath outfit 20 minutes; in water-seal outfit, 15 minutes; steam pressure outfit under 5 pounds steam, 10 minutes; in aluminum pressure cooker, with 10 pounds of steam, 7 minutes. Remove. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap glass jars in paper to prevent bleaching; then store.

2. Sour berry fruits, such as currants, gooseberries, cranberries, and sour cherries.

Recipe for canning sour berry fruits. Can same day picked. Stem, hull, and clean. Blanch in hot water one minute. Remove and dip quickly in cold water. Pack berries closely in container. Add hot syrup of 28 per cent density until full. Place rubber and cap in place. Seal partially, not tight. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize in hot-water bath outfit 20 minutes; in water-seal outfit, 15 minutes; in 5-pound steam pressure outfit, 12 minutes; in aluminum pressure-cooker outfit under 15 pounds of steam, 8 minutes. Remove jars. Tighten covers and invert to cool and test joints. Wrap in paper and store.

3. Hard fruits, such as apples, pears, quinces, etc.

Recipe for canning hard fruits. Grade, blanch 1½ minutes, and plunge quickly in cold water. Core, pit, or remove skins, if necessary. Pack whole, quartered, or sliced as desired. Add boiling-hot syrup of from 18 to 28 per cent density (medium thin). Place rubbers and tops in position. Partially tighten. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize 25 minutes in hot water bath outfit; 18 minutes in water-seal outfit; 12 minutes under 5 pounds steam in steam-pressure outfit; 9 minutes in aluminum pressure-cooker under 15 pounds pressure. Remove jars. Tighten covers and invert to cool and test joints. Wrap glass jars in paper to prevent bleaching, and store.

We are presenting to our readers, the signed statements verifying an egg preservative which is sold by Mrs. Sarah Reynolds, No. 976 Belmont Ave., Salt Lake City, Utah, which we take pleasure in recommending to our sisters, or those desiring to preserve eggs whenever the time presents itself for so-doing. We hope the sisters will study carefully the lesson prepared for the proper canning of vegetables and fruits, as they are thoroughly reliable. We also recommend the pressure cooker, which is so frequently mentioned in the lesson on canning, etc., and feel that the suggestions offered for forming community clubs is one of the best ways possible to obtain a cooker for use during the strenuous time of putting up the winter's supply of food.

The following are names and addresses where the above mentioned articles may be obtained. We hope at least you will accept the recommendation for sending for catalogue, etc. The National Home Outfit, the Northwestern Steel and Iron Works, Eau Claire, Wisconsin—price $10.00 will handle over one hundred quarts a day. Send for circular and recipe book. Invaluable for use in community canning and for large amounts. The Denver Pressure Cooker Company, Denver, Colorado, aluminum cooker, the fifteen dollar size holds six quarts. Good for use of small families. The steam cookers have great advantages for canning purposes. They save fuel, time, and, all things being equal, insure success and therefore safety. They are also economical in cookery, since the food value is retained. Green beans requiring four hours steaming, may be bottled in forty minutes. Dried beans requiring eight to ten hours' cooking, may be prepared in fifty minutes. If requiring three hours' cooking, may be prepared in one hour. Pot roast, requiring one to two hours, may be ready to serve in one hour's time.

TESTIMONIALS WITH REGARD TO THE EGG PRESERVATIVE.

Last winter I started to use eggs preserved by Mrs. Reynolds and I have continued to use them since because they taste just as fresh as fresh eggs, and are much cheaper. With me it is a question of good business in housekeeping economy.  
Mrs. M. J. Pickering, 319 K Street, Salt Lake City. April 12, 1917.

To whom it may concern: This is to testify that I had occasion during the past winter to use some of the eggs preserved by a process used by Mrs. Sarah Reynolds, which conserves the natural flavor of the egg and prevents the usual stale taste found in storage eggs.  
Yours very truly, Mrs. A. S. Worswick.

In February, 1917, I bought and used some eggs preserved by Mrs. Reynolds. During May of the preceding year, I found the eggs to be strictly fresh and can highly recommend this method of preserving eggs.  
Mrs. Jessie L. Maxwell, 1126 Fourth Avenue.

GUIDE LESSONS.

LESSON II.

VEGETABLES.

Vegetable greens, both wild and cultivated.

Recipe for canning vegetable greens. Prepare and can the day picked. Sort and clean. Blanch in a vessel with a little water under false bottom or in a regular steamer, 15 to 20 minutes. Remove. Plunge quickly into cold water. Cut in convenient lengths. Pack tight in jar or container and season to taste; add a little chipped beef, olive oil, etc. Add hot water to fill crevices, and a level teaspoon full of salt to each quart. If using glass jars place rubber and top in position, partially seal; if using tin cans, cap and tip completely. Sterilize 110 minutes in hot-water bath outfit; 75 minutes in water-seal; 60 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds of steam; 30 minutes in aluminum pressure-cooker outfit at 15 pounds of steam. Remove from canner. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap in paper to prevent bleaching and store. For greens use any of the following: Cabbage sprouts, turnip tops, spinach, beet tops, pepper cress, dandelion, wild mustard, milkweed (tender sprouts and young leaves).

2. Root and tuber vegetables, such as carrots, parsnips, beets, turnips, sweet potatoes, etc.

Recipe for canning root and tuber vegetables. Grade for size, color, and degree of ripeness. Wash thoroughly. Use vegetable brush. Scald in boiling hot water sufficiently to loosen skin. Plunge quickly in cold water. Scrape or pare to remove skin. Pack whole or cut in sections or cubes, as required by the home or market standard. Add boiling hot water and one level teaspoon full of salt to the quart. Place rubbers and tops in position. Partially seal, but not tight. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize 110 minutes in hot-water bath outfit; 20 minutes in water-seal outfit; 75 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds of steam; 45 minutes in aluminum pressure-cooker under 20 pounds of steam.

Special vegetables. Tomatoes and corn.

Recipe for canning tomatoes. Grade for size, ripeness, and color. Scald in hot water enough to loosen skins. Plunge quickly in cold water. Remove. Core and skin. Pack whole. Fill container with whole tomatoes only. Add one level teaspoonful of salt to each quart. Place rubber and cap in position. Partially seal, but not tight. (Tin cans should be sealed.) Sterilize 25 minutes in hot-water bath outfit; 22 minutes in water-seal outfit; 18 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds steam; 12 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 20 pounds steam. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap jars in paper and store.

Recipe for canning sweet corn on the cob. Can corn the same day picked. Remove husks, silks, and grade for size. Blanch on the cob in boiling water 5 to 15 minutes. Plunge quickly in cold water. Pack ears, alternating butts and tips, in half gallon glass jars or golden tin cans. Pour over boiling hot water and add 2 level teaspoonfuls of salt to each gallon. Place rubbers and tops in position. Seal partially but not tight. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize in hot water bath outfit 220 minutes, one period; 40 minutes in water-seal outfit; 75 minutes in steam pressure outfit under 5 pounds steam; 45 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 20 pounds steam. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap glass jars with paper and store. Note. When sweet corn is taken from jar or tin can for table use, remove ears as soon as jar or can is opened. Heat corn, slightly buttered, in steamer. Do not allow ears to stand in water or to be boiled in water the second time.

Recipe for canning sweet corn cut from cob. Can the same day as picked. Remove husks and silks. Blanch on the cob in boiling hot water 5 to 15 minutes. Plunge quickly in cold water. Cut the corn from the cob with a thin, sharp-bladed knife. Pack corn in jar tightly until full. Add one level teaspoonful of salt to each quart and sufficient hot water to fill. Place rubber and top in position; seal partially but not tight. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize 220 minutes in hot-water outfit; 110 minutes in water-seal outfit; 75 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds of steam; 45 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 20 pounds of steam. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap with paper and store.

Other vegetables, such as Lima beans, string beans, peas, okra, etc.

Recipe for canning. Can same day vegetables are picked. Cull, string, and grade. Blanch in boiling hot water for 2 to 5 minutes. Remove and plunge quickly in cold water. Pack in container until full. Add boiling hot water to fill crevices. Add one level teaspoon full of salt to each quart. Place rubbers and tops in position. Partially seal, but not tight. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize in hot-water bath outfit one period of 145 minutes; 110 minutes in water-seal outfit; 75 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds steam; 50 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 20 pounds of steam. Remove jars. Tighten covers and invert to cool. Wrap jars in paper and store.

Pumpkin and squash.

Recipe for canning for pie filling. Cook for 30 minutes to reduce to pulp. Pack in glass jars or tin cans. Add 1 cup of sugar and 1 teaspoon full of salt to each quart of pulp. Place rubber and top in position. Partially seal, but not tight. Sterilize 75 minutes in hot-water bath outfit; 60 minutes in water-seal outfit; 50 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds of steam; 40 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 20 pounds of steam. Remove. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap in paper and store.

Recipe for canning for special dishes fried, creamed, baked. Cut pumpkin or squash into small, uniform size cubes. Blanch in boiling water for 10 minutes. Plunge quickly in cold water. Pack in jar until full. Add boiling hot water and 1 level teaspoonful of salt to the quart. Place rubbers and caps in position, but not tight. Sterilize 75 minutes in hot-water bath outfit; 55 minutes in water-seal outfit; 40 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds steam; 30 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 15 pounds of steam.

Eggplant. Remove the skin of the eggplant and slice across the fruit. Make slices about one-half or three-fourths of an inch thick. Blanch 3 minutes in boiling water to which has been added a tablespoon full of salt per quart. Plunge into cold water and pack in glass jars. Fill with boiling hot water and add a level teaspoonful of salt per quart. Put rubber and cap in position, not tight. (Cap and tip if using enameled tin cans.) If using a hot-water bath outfit, sterilize 60 minutes; if using a water-seal outfit or a 5 pound steam-pressure outfit, sterilize 45 minutes; or if using an aluminum pressure-cooker outfit, sterilize 30 minutes. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test the joints. Wrap jars with paper to prevent bleaching and store.

Cauliflower. Use the flowered portion. Blanch 3 minutes. Plunge into cold brine (one-half salt to 12 quarts water.) Allow cauliflower to remain in this brine for 12 hours. Pack in glass jars or enameled tin cans. Fill with boiling water and level teaspoonful of salt per quart. Put rubber and cap in position, not tight. (Cap and tip if using enameled tin cans.) If using a hot-water bath outfit, sterilize 45 minutes; if using a water-seal outfit, sterilize 35 minutes; if using a 5-pound steam-pressure outfit, sterilize 30 minutes; or if using an aluminum pressure-cooker outfit, sterilize 20 minutes. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test the joints. Wrap jars with paper to prevent bleaching and store.

The use of tin cans. The use of tin cans is regarded as entirely practical for the home canning of surplus fruits and vegetables of the farm. Their use for this purpose is recommended because it simplifies the canning operation. The use of tin cans for the canning of surplus fruit and vegetables has the further advantage that products so packed are easily handled in transportation and storage. In the canning of green vegetables, meats, fish, rhubarb, berries, pumpkins, squash, beets, etc., however, the lacquered (enameled) can should be used because these products may contain substances which dissolve the tin of the ordinary cans, and thus the food may be rendered harmful to health.

Canning fruit juices. In order to can fruit juices, the first important thing to provide is a fruit press, cider mill, or some kind of contrivance or device which will make it easy and practicable to press the juice from the fruit. In most cases the canning of fruit juices or sterilization can be accomplished in very much the same way as the canning of the fruit itself, except in preliminary steps and in the methods of rinsing, scalding, and peeling the fruit before pressing and in a slight difference in the amount of time required. Fruit juices as a rule will not stand as much cooking or as high a temperature during the sterilization period without the danger of destroying the natural fruit flavor.

Rhubarb. Wash stalks clean. Cut into pieces three-fourths of an inch in length. (Do not remove skin.) Blanch 2 minutes. Cold dip. Pack in glass jars. (Do not use tin cans.) Pour on thick syrup, boiling. Put rubber and cap in position, not tight. (Cap and tip if using enameled tin cans.) If using a hot-water bath outfit, sterilize 20 minutes; if using a water-seal outfit or a 5-pound steam-pressure outfit, sterilize 10 minutes. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test the joints. Wrap jars with paper to prevent bleaching and store.

COLUMBIA GRAFONOLAS and Double Disc Records

The mechanism, style, finish and every detail of the COLUMBIA products are as near perfection as possible. Let us send you catalogue of Machines and Records. We can arrange terms.

FURNITURE CARPETS RUGS-RANGES GOCARTS, Etc

FURNITURE of QUALITY

Co-op Furniture Company Salt Lake City, Utah W. N. WILLIAMS, Supt.

HAVE YOU SUBSCRIBED FOR THE Relief Society Magazine IF NOT, DO IT AT ONCE

Ring the Bell! You furnish the "BELLE" and we'll supply the RING

McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 SOUTH MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY, 1917

Have You Planted Corn and Beans? How Much can You Save This Year? Have You Ordered Your Pressure Cooker? Aren't You Proud of the Relief Society Red Cross Donation? Now for a Patriotic, Sane Fourth and Twenty-Fourth.

IN MEMORY OF 1847.

O come with me a little way—  
We'll turn time's pages back again,  
And gaze as at a long lost scroll.  
('Tis scarcely three-score years and ten).  
Dost see that stretch of sage-brush land?  
How grim, forbidding it appears;  
How dead and changeless it must be,  
Deserted lain, for countless years.  
And note the soil, the hard backed clay,  
"'Twas never done, 'twill never be."  
"It can't be done," the doubters say.  
Their leaders answer, "Wait and see."  
Now look again, the scene is changed,  
And far and near on every side  
The valley teeming with full life  
Where Israel's chosen ones reside.  
Gone are those dauntless pioneers  
Who builded better than they knew.  
Their children reap with love and tears,  
Yet, let us hope, with hearts as true.

Hazel Washburn.