[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 29 | Fiction | The Lost Star Hazel | K. Todd]
[m sorry, he said, "to bother you again. But Mitzie slipped away while I was gone. You see I let Mrs. Piney 8° home this morning, and I just realized today that she had done nothing about Mitzie's Christmas." He looked away into the snow. "I have never been

THE LOST STAR

The little face brightened hopefully, and she smiled. "Oh, didn't you know about the star?" she asked in deep surprise.

Then, when Joan still looked puzzled, she added so very earnestly, "You know, the Christmas star, the Jesus star. Mrs. Piney says that people have lost the star because they don't remember Jesus any more."

Joan stood a moment staring at the child without saying anything.

"She says it must be found again," the little girl continued.

"I . . . I suppose it must," Joan whispered slowly.

"What did you say?"

"Oh, nothing, nothing at all. I was just thinking. That is — I mean perhaps that is what I have lost — the Jesus star!" And then she suddenly blushed as though she stood before the child on trial for some grievous offense. "Oh, you must be cold," she said, brushing the snow from the peaked cap and the long coat. "Please come in and sit by the fire. Let me take your coat and cap."

The little girl sat on the low stool where she, herself, had sat so many times long ago. She placed the bucket carefully on the lap of her brown dress.

"What — what were you going to do with the star?" Joan asked with her eyes on the bucket.

The child looked up quickly with frank blue eyes. "If I had a Christmas tree I would hang it at the tip-top where everyone could see it."

Joan struggled with the strange emotions inside her. She gazed at the little girl in wonder, while she searched carefully for words. But she could find none appropriate.

"I guess it must have tumbled from the sky," the little girl went on, completely unaffected by Joan's silence. "It must be in the fields. But Mrs. Piney is so old she could not walk in the snow. But you will go!" she finished brightly.

Joan looked out the window. The white dusk was gathering. The short winter day would soon be over. The snow was falling steadily with thick white flakes. What did you do with a strange child with some long-ago dream that wanted you to go in the snow some place to hunt for an imaginary star that had fallen from the sky because people had ceased to think of Jesus!

"I . . . I'm afraid it is too late tonight to find the star," Joan said, fumbling for words and snatching at the hope that with a little time she would know what to do.

"But maybe Mrs. Piney will not go to sleep tomorrow."

"Who is Mrs. Piney?"

"She takes care of me. She cooks the food and sews my dresses."

Joan looked over the drab brown dress buttoned under her chin, at the bulky stockings, and the old-fashioned coat she had hung over the chair by the fire. Her mind drew a vivid picture of Mrs. Piney — an old lady apart from the world, who knew nothing of the way modern children dressed and played; but who knew about important things like the star.

"Who are you?" asked the child abruptly.

"My name is Joan." Then, on second thought she added, "No, it is Joanna, and I used to come to this house when I was a little girl."

31

JANUARY 1964

"Oh, I will come tomorrow!" said the child happily.

Then again there was a knock. A half-fearful, startled look crossed the little girl's face, and she turned her stool with her back to the door.

Joan arose and walked to the door, half expecting some unreal person to be standing there.

It was a man, tall and lean. Yet in his face were the same frank blue eyes as those of the little girl. At sight of her he looked surprised and lifted his snowy hat, displaying dark hair grayed at the temples.

"I beg your pardon," he said apologetically, "but I was looking for a little girl. She comes over here occasionally, even though I have told her she must not bother the Grays."

Joan looked at the man, her mind filled with questions. There was no sound from the little girl even though Joan was sure she must have heard. There were drawn lines about the man's eyes and mouth, and Joan thought she detected a hint of bitterness about him.

She stepped back from the door. "Please come in," she said. "The Grays are in Arizona. I own this place and I came to — to see about it," she finished lamely.

He entered and she saw him stiffen slightly. "There you are, Mitzie," he said quite sharply. "Why did you run away when Mrs. Piney was asleep?"

The little girl began to cry then, sobbing, with her tiny face buried in the skirt of her brown dress.

"You must come with me at once," the man said quite sternly, crossing to her.

Even though the present dilemma was no concern of hers, Joan felt desperately the urge to do something.

She put out her hand instinctively. "Please," she said, "do not scold her." And then her face flushed. "I mean, Mitzie was certainly no bother."

"She knows she must not run away," the man said, taking her by the hand.

"But, Daddy, I wanted to find the star!" Mitzie wept, standing and clinging to her father's leg.

He put his hand on her head. "Mitzie, you must stop talking such nonsense." He turned to Joan. "I am away a lot," he said. "The woman who takes care of her is old and sentimental."

Mitzie let go his leg and held her face in her hands.

But he was holding her coat, and she ceased her crying and put her arms resignedly into the sleeves.

Joan stood by, confused with the strange drama she had so suddenly found herself a part of, and yet there was something. . . .

"I was thinking," she said, staring at the child in her quaint coat and cap, and then at the man, "that — that perhaps, you, too, have lost the star!"

He looked at her with sort of a quizzical weariness. For a moment he hesitated, and then he walked to the door, holding Mitzie's hand. He turned then, with a half-bitter smile flicking the corners of his mouth.

"Mitzie's mother died," he said, "seven years ago on Christmas Eve, the night Mitzie was born."

They went out the door, then, into

32

THE LOST STAR

the mist. Mitzie turned slightly, one old carol to another she sang and, for a brief moment, looked at while a tender peace settled about Joan with a half-pleading, sad ex- her. She came to the words, "Star pression on her tear-streaked face. of the East, oh, Bethlehem Star." And then the door closed on them Her fingers paused. Her foot ceased and the snowy night, and they to pump the old bellows. The Star! were gone. The Star that meant losing yourself

For a time Joan stood staring at for others. Yes, it was the star that the door. What a paradox! She she had lost! But she had found it! had come two thousand miles here She leaned her head down on the to find something that was to be ivory keys and wept tears of sweet peace and serenity, joy and thanks- release. giving. Instead, she had met a lonely little girl and a man, bitter SO, all the next day she worked and and miles away from his own child, listened for the knock that would a child who wished for a Christmas bring Mitzie in search of the star tree on which to hang the Jesus star. she had promised to help her find.

Suddenly an idea came surging She refused to accept the possibility over her, like a light, along the path that she would not be able to come. of old memories. Why not make a But noon passed and the wind Christmas for Mitzie! A huge came up, blowing the loose snow sparkling tree with candles and pop- into drifts. She saw it through the corn and paper chains! The old window, piling along the fence be- brown box! Where was it! And yond the apple trees. She went out- the star, the silver star with the tin- side and let the wind whip at her, sel and beads! Mitzie's star! trying to imagine in which direc-

Burning with excitement, she tion Mitzie could live. The early raced from one corner of the old winter dusk was settling. There was house to the other, digging in closets not time to wait longer. She must and cupboards and drawers until call a taxi. she found the box in the cubby hole She had barely retraced her steps at the top of the stairs. With her into the house and reached the heart drumming at her ribs, she phone when the knock came. With lugged it down the stairs to the mid- her heart racing in anticipation, she dle of the old parlor floor before the hurried to the door. But it was not fire. How she cried over each gold- Mitzie. It was Mitzie's father, en treasure, unwinding long chains standing there in the blowing snow, of paper and tinsel, kissing each with the bitter lines on his face, bright cherub, laughing with delight tightened. "I'm sorry," he said, "to at the glass birds and the tinkling bother you again. But Mitzie bells. Happily she gazed over the slipped away while I was gone. You room, mentally setting up the tree, see I let Mrs. Piney go home this hanging it with splendor. Her eyes morning, and I just realized today rested for a second on the old organ, that she had done nothing about and she rushed to it and sat down Mitzie's Christmas." He looked away on the worn velvet bench. From into the snow. "I have never been

33

JANUARY 1964

here on Christmas with her before." His eyes came back. "I hope Mitzie hasn't been worrying you about the star again. She can't seem to get it out of her mind."

A sharp intimate fear possessed Joan. "She is not here!" she said.

"Not here?" The man looked bewildered. "But it was the only place she could be. I was sure. . . ."

Joan felt limp and sick. "If you only knew," she said, "how much I wanted her to come. I. . . . Oh, please come in."

She led him into the room and he stared in amazement.

"It was for Mitzie," she said. "The star at the top of the tree. It is her star, one I loved when I was a little girl. You see, I, too, had lost the star, lost it in a whirl of parties, and night clubs, and making money, and friends who didn't know true values, and. . . ." She paused and wiped the tears from her eyes. "Mitzie helped me find it. And I wanted her to have it, too, a real Christmas such as she had never known."

SHE dropped into the rocker and put her head on the lacy doily of the arm and wept.

He stood meekly before her holding his hat. "I have been a heel," he said, "the most inadequate father a child ever had. I have let my own selfish grief deny her both father and mother." He hesitated. "Last night I kept thinking of what you said about my losing the star. And I realized you were right, so I let Mrs. Piney go home for Christmas, and I decided to make Mitzie a real Christmas."

Joan was wiping her eyes.

"Come!" she said, standing quickly. "We must find her. It is much too cold. Where can we look?"

"Only that I think she has gone somewhere to find the star."

"In the fields!" Joan said, "She said it must be in the fields!"

But it was a hopeless task, wading through the fields in the blowing snow, calling for Mitzie, flashing the light across the stretches of ominous white, while consternation turned to terror.

They stopped and faced each other. "We could call the police from your home. It is nearer than mine," he said.

Then, as they threw open her door against the wind, they saw Mitzie standing there. She was gazing at the silver star at the top of the tree.

As they came rushing forward, she turned to them, her face alight with rapture, completely unaware of the anxiety she had caused. "Look!" she cried, "The Star! I have found the Jesus Star! It is on the top of your tree!"

"Yes, Mitzie, darling," her father said in penitent tones, as he gently took the sand pail from her hand and set it on the floor. Then he held the little hand in his own.

Joan reached for the other hand. "It is the star we had all three lost, Mitzie. But truly it is only the picture of it. The real Jesus star is in people's hearts."

"And we will keep it there forever," Mitzie's father said.

Then he walked to the doorway and taking the sprig of mistletoe from it, he carried it back to hang it from a dangling Christmas bell over their heads.

34
