Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_01_13_SpFt_The_New_Foundation.txt) ===
March of Dimes Fight Birth Defects -Fight Arthritis The National Foundation Your March of Dimes and dollars are now working harder than ever. There are more than seventy March of Dimes Centers in fifty-one cities across the United States. Typical of such centers are the Birth Defects Special Treatment Center at the L. D. S. Primary Children's Hospital in Salt Lake City, Utah, and the Juvenile Arthritis Special Treatment Center at the University of Utah. In these centers each working day finds dedicated, skilled men and women continuing the fight against Birth Defects that strike a newborn child in America every other minute of the day, and against the Nation's Number One Crippler — Arthritis, which now afflicts eleven million Americans. In our fight against Birth Defects, your March of Dimes contributions are also supporting a broad range of studies to determine why Birth Defects and Arthritis occur, how they may be prevented, and the best means for correcting disease and disability. Despite polio's headlong rush to oblivion, thanks to the Salk and Sabin vaccines which you literally bought and paid for through the March of Dimes, there are still many partially or completely paralyzed victims who need help and further rehabilitation. Give to the 1964 March of Dimes and your treatment centers will be able to continue in their search for hope and help for the child born less than perfect. Give generously to your 1964 March of Dimes. 28 Ve. Hazel K. Todd Wri strange anticipation the welldressed young woman stood alone in the falling snow before the old house in the trees. She had come through the sagging gate, down the snow-filled path where, as a child, her dancing feet had sped. The taxi that had brought her from the airport was rapidly disappearing into the white mist down the country road, taking with it the driver who had raised an eyebrow questioningly as he deposited her expensive luggage at the porch. But how could he know by looking at the old house sleeping there, of the Christmas warmth it had held within its ancient walls! The woman stared at the great carved door. How could she hope to find the something of Christmas she had lost, that used to be here in this silent old house! For the parents who had brought her here as a child were gone, and the grandparents who had hung the great tree with tinsel and angels were gone, too, these twelve years. And she, Joan Mason, an_accomplished dress designer and owner of the old house, alone, was left. For a minute she turned and stared back the way she had come. But the taxi had already disappeared in the mist of falling snow. Slowly she opened her purse and fumbled Fite PR ATA EAT aU STM. « ayo Cems. A wee "Lease fo y Srieh tase in it to bring out an ancient key tied with a red string. For a few seconds she gazed thoughtfully at it and then she fitted it into the black lock of the door. It turned easily with the generations of years of experience behind it. The door swung open and she stepped inside. Standing there with her back to the door, her eyes traveled expectantly over the old familiar things as if already the lost essence should sing out, "You are here! At last I am found!" But they were silent, the things she had known, the red plush sofa, the bookcase with its glass doors and its rows of books, the elaborately framed pictures of her ancestors on the wall, the mantel where she had hung her Christmas stockings long ago. In the great fireplace wood lay unkindled. With a warm tingle of old familiarity she turned to the carved bird on the mantel with its match-filled wings. In a few minutes the fire was blazing comfortably. She had hung her wraps in the hall closet and put away the groceries that she had bought in the village on the way. Now she sat before the fire in the old rocking chair where her grandmother had rocked. 


 Vinson would be surprised if he could see her here. She went over again the words she had scribbled so hurriedly on a sudden impulse: Dear Vinc, I won't be able to go on the house party. I hope you'll forgive me. I've gone to find something of Christmas I had once and lost. —Joan She never would have thought of writing the note or of coming, if the letter hadn't arrived in the mail yesterday morning from the Grays, the aged couple who were the caretakers of the old home that had come to her as an inheritance from her grandparents. The letter had simply stated that an unexpected opportunity had come for them to spend the winter in Arizona, and they were enclosing the key. In all the years the old place had belonged to her she had paid no heed to it, except for the checks she mailed for its maintenance. But yesterday, when she opened the letter, the key with the red string unleashed a stream of memories that rushed and tumbled over each other until she wept softly into the folds of the scarf in her hands. She saw her grandfather placing the great log on the fire.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_01_31_Poem_First_Burnham.txt) ===
Dynamic Leadership of the First Presidency Accelerates Pace of Church-Wide Activity," Church News, December 29, 1962, page 6. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what way does the law of consecration apply in this lesson? 2. What human characteristics interfere most with service in behalf of and consideration for the welfare of mankind? 3. What is the importance of a lay leadership in the plan of salvation? What are the opportunities that arise out of service in the Church program? 5. What is the proper procedure for notifying a person of his selection for an office in the Church? 6. What is the problem involved in this quotation 'Many are called, but few are chosen''? —— Gladys Hesser Burnham When YOU were I kisseq smal] and by them MPs and SCratches Came etter ang hey Mende Well: u der and hea iS My kisses ren' ed Surprise, » my darling Spoke — M alive: 79 ~ s, ee al % Py ff } Pe 4 vs FOAL, (f Uy a One Hundred Mrs. SOPHIA HARSCH Nauvoo, Illinois Mrs. ANN ELIZA ALLEN COOMBS Centerville, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. RACHEL MIDDLETON JENSEN Ogden, Utah Mrs. ANNIE M. ROBERTS SMITH Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. CHARLOTTE THOMAS KAY Ogden, Utah Mrs. Louisa HAAG ABEGG DONE Tucson, Arizona Ninety-three Mrs. Mary LAMBERT HUSSEY Ogden, Utah Mrs. NANCY ELIZABETH C. WALKER Augusta, Georgia Mrs. MIRINDA SNOW FRANDSEN Provo, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. AMELIA HEPPLER HANSEN Richfield, Utah WO — Nh (YeGpta hddaliiveb d 7 Mrs. FRANCES LATHROP LEBO Bakersfield,California Mrs.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_01_32_Poem_Camoes_Roberts.txt) ===
Dynamic Leadership of the First Presidency Accelerates Pace of Church-Wide Activity," Church News, December 29, 1962, page 6. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what way does the law of consecration apply in this lesson? 2. What human characteristics interfere most with service in behalf of and consideration for the welfare of mankind? 3. What is the importance of a lay leadership in the plan of salvation? What are the opportunities that arise out of service in the Church program? 5. What is the proper procedure for notifying a person of his selection for an office in the Church? 6. What is the problem involved in this quotation 'Many are called, but few are chosen''? —— Gladys Hesser Burnham When YOU were I kisseq smal] and by them MPs and SCratches Came etter ang hey Mende Well: u der and hea iS My kisses ren' ed Surprise, » my darling Spoke — M alive: 79 ~ s, ee al % Py ff } Pe 4 vs FOAL, (f Uy a One Hundred Mrs. SOPHIA HARSCH Nauvoo, Illinois Mrs. ANN ELIZA ALLEN COOMBS Centerville, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. RACHEL MIDDLETON JENSEN Ogden, Utah Mrs. ANNIE M. ROBERTS SMITH Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. CHARLOTTE THOMAS KAY Ogden, Utah Mrs. Louisa HAAG ABEGG DONE Tucson, Arizona Ninety-three Mrs. Mary LAMBERT HUSSEY Ogden, Utah Mrs. NANCY ELIZABETH C. WALKER Augusta, Georgia Mrs. MIRINDA SNOW FRANDSEN Provo, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. AMELIA HEPPLER HANSEN Richfield, Utah WO — Nh (YeGpta hddaliiveb d 7 Mrs. FRANCES LATHROP LEBO Bakersfield, California Mrs.