[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 1 | Special Feature | Happy New Year! | General Presidency]
[Happy New Year! General Presidency]
[Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963]

Happy New Year!

HAPPY New Year to each and all! A glad, prosperous year ahead is our wish for you. Success in your undertakings, happiness in your homes, peace in your lives, and joy in your souls is our prayer for you. Faith in great abundance, a deep, abiding testimony, a motivating desire for greater spirituality, a stirring longing for gospel knowledge is our hope for you.

"Lift up your hearts and be glad, for I am in your midst, and am your advocate with the Father; and it is his good will to give you the kingdom." This great promise given by the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith is a promise to the worthy who are willing to work in his kingdom. The Lord speaks of the gospel as the "voice of gladness" and as "glad tidings of great joy." His instruction "that ye are chosen out of the world to declare my gospel with the sound of rejoicing" gives us the realization that only in righteous living is there true happiness and cause for rejoicing.

How full of joy our lives are meant to be! Yet joy and happiness are of our own making. The secret of happiness lies within us. Some do not understand that to possess happiness one must pay the price in loving kindness, in devoted service, and in uplifting goodness. All of us have experienced failures and have made mistakes. Let us bury them in the unretraceable past, keeping only the wisdom derived from such experiences to guide our future. The New Year will be prosperous and happy if we make it so.

The first day of the calendar year is one of the oldest of festivals. Its celebration is well-nigh universal. Dear sisters all over the world, as you celebrate the New Year, as is your custom, remember that our beloved Relief Society binds us together in a great, loving sisterhood. Its organization under the inspiration of our Father in heaven was for this purpose and to make us "one" in his service.

The New Year is rich in the promise of glorious opportunities. Let us make the most of them!

Affectionately,

Belle S. Spafford
Marianne C. Sharp
Louise Y. Madsen
