[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 72 | Lesson | Social Science — The Opportunity and Responsibility of a Calling in Church Government Ariel | S. Ballif]
[Social Science — The Opportunity and Responsibility of a Calling in Church Government Ariel S. Ballif]
[fPews PREsS — 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah am P ~T 4 N f RUA f wrkk SC THY «QQ qi CW 1 Cc a) i. F I aw J yi OC t+ Y J \ y wy I { 1. ANSWERS TO GOSPEL QUESTIONS Volume IV by President Joseph Fielding Smith A new volume in President Smith's 'Answers to Gospel Questions" series. This book is full of the profound scripture-backed wisdom of President Smith and answers many of the complex doctrinal questions of our time. $2.75 Volumes I, 1! & Ill also available at the same price. 2. LATTER-DAY PROPHETS AND THE DOCTRINE & COVENANTS Volume I (Sections 1 - 41) by Roy W. Doxey Here is a brilliant text that offers commentary on the nts t first forty-one sections of the Doctrine and Covenants as found in the addresses of First Presidencies, Quorums of the Twelve, and Presiding Patriarchs of the Church from Joseph Smith to the present. This is the first of a series that the author is writing. $3.95 Deseret Book is Your Headquarters for the Best in Church Literature The, poet je and Cove Se edt ewes cdenennucescarscautimecstll re - - < = lg comes" I Deseret Book 44 East South Temple mt Pn? Le Salt Lake City, Utah } 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL Gentlemen: Enclosed please find a } SALT LAKE CITY check []

SOCIAL SCIENCE • Divine Law and Church Government

Church Government II. Organization and Structure

Lesson 13 — The Opportunity and Responsibility of a Calling in Church Government

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

For Fourth Meeting, April 1964

Objective: To stress the importance of each and every calling to the successful operation of Church government.

... when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God (Mosiah 2:17).

... by love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself (Gal. 5:13-14).

If thou lovest me thou shalt serve me and keep all my commandments (D & C 42:29).

A wise man said, "Human societies are happy in proportion as they have their treasure in that class of goods which are not lessened by being shared."

The gospel of Jesus Christ requires from each member a personal investment of time, intelligence, talent, and wealth. This investment is in the development of the kingdom of God.

In this kingdom (society) the welfare of others is the major treasure and service is the medium of exchange. Every member has the opportunity for full participation in service to his fellow men. There is no limit to one's sharing in this treasure; therefore, as the wise man suggests, there is no limit to his happiness. Human weaknesses, selfishness, covetousness, and greed are the obstacles in the way of the realization of this ideal.

A Lay Leadership

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints depends upon a lay leadership. Every member in good standing is eligible to hold office. Service in this respect begins very early. Young people ten and twelve years of age are frequently called to positions (Sunday School class officers, deacon presidencies, secretaries, etc.).

The Church does not have a trained or professional ministry. It does have a program of training for leadership that begins formally with the deacon age and continues throughout the life of the individual.

72

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Because of this opportunity for training, the Church can and does rightly expect an improved leadership from each new generation.

An important part of this leadership training is the formulation of an attitude of willingness to serve. Members in this Church need to develop a positive attitude toward acceptance of any call to serve. This comes from continued teaching and encouragement to all members from the time of their baptism. It is also greatly influenced by proper example set by their elders.

Numbers Involved in Leadership

From the six members present at the organization of the Church on April 6, 1830, there has been a continual growth in membership. With this increase, which has reached an approximate total of two million members (November 1963) there has been a tremendous increase in the number of administrative units in the government of the Church. The number of stakes has reached 387 (November 1963) and the wards and branches in stakes now number approximately 3,588, and there are 73 missions.

The importance of the above statistics in this discussion is the increase of officers and teachers required to operate this great organization. An average size ward (550 members) needs approximately 250 officers and teachers to complete the organization for their regular activities. In addition, it requires approximately 120 leaders to office the stake organization properly. Both ward and stake leadership and the officers needed to operate the general Church organization constitute a tremendous army of active members, numbering approximately forty-five per cent of the total membership.

It is the practice of the Church to give one assignment to a person. Also, it is customary to change the assignment from time to time. This gives more people opportunity for service with a wider experience in Church government.

The Call to Service

We believe that the leaders of this Church are called by divine authority and that they may enjoy the blessings of inspiration and revelation in carrying out their assignments.

Divine authority, revelation, and inspiration are involved in every assignment made in Church government. Each person is called by the Priesthood to the position he holds and may have hands laid upon him, receiving the blessings of heaven to assist him in carrying out his calling.

1. Selection of Leaders. Selection of proper leaders is a vital responsibility of the presiding officers in branches, wards, stakes, missions, and the general organization of the Church. Using the ward unit as an example, the bishop is responsible for the welfare of his ward members, spiritually and temporally. Teaching plays a major role in the program of the Church. The ward experience provides the major part of the religious training for the members of the Church. The bishop, therefore, must know his people well enough so that he can select as leaders and teachers those who can give strength and understanding of

73

JANUARY 1964

the knowledge of the gospel to other members. The personal life of the teacher or leader can have more influence on the testimony of the members than the vocal expression of the lesson in class or in meeting.

2. The Personal Interview. Each person suggested for office in the ward should be approached, in regard to the calling, by the bishopric. Officers of organizations may suggest names of desired persons, but the first contact should be made by the bishopric only. After the interview with the bishopric, at which time they satisfy themselves that this person is right with the Lord, properly prepared for leadership, and the assignment being considered is the proper one for this person, then and not until then, the bishopric should refer the person to the officer in charge and the member of the bishopric assigned to that organization. The officer in charge should then interview the new appointee and explain in detail the responsibilities and obligations of the calling. Every help should be given the new officer or teacher to assist him in successfully meeting this new opportunity for service.

Many people who serve successfully in the Church are not highly trained for their assignments; but any member who is willing to work and put forth a sincere effort to know what the assignment requires, and who is humble enough to recognize that he is being called to the Lord's work, asking in faith for divine help, can fill well any assignment he may be called to in this Church.

The Member's Part in Accepting a Calling

It should be clear that any calling in this Church is a real opportunity. First, it is an opportunity for service. It is doing something for others with an unselfish motive, voluntarily putting forth an effort for the betterment, relief, or general welfare of someone else. (2) It is an opportunity for self-improvement. One cannot do anything for others without receiving a greater benefit for himself. This may express itself in mental and spiritual growth as well as developing in him greater human understanding. (3) It is an opportunity for closer association and better communication with God. One cannot sincerely and conscientiously accept a part in the Lord's great program without feeling his influence in every righteous effort one puts forth in advancing his work.

In accepting a call, one must realize that, for him, this call is the most important assignment in the Church. To the extent that one excels in carrying out one's assignment, the work of the Lord excels. It is the unified effort of all officers and teachers that makes the Church program succeed.

Responsibility of Church Members. The responsibility is not only on the officers and teachers for the advancement of the work of the Lord. To be a good follower is an essential qualification for group membership. There are so many assignments in a ward, involving so many different people, that each

74

LESSON DEPARTMENT

person, no matter what his special calling or area of service may be, must also be an active participant as a ward member. In fact, one quality of good leadership is being able to identify oneself effectively with the group in a variety of ways.

It is important that all ward members accept the opportunities for training provided by the organizations of the Church. By their participation in the program, growth and development, both spiritually and mentally, are assured. At the same time, the activity of the membership provides the sustaining and stimulating influence that officers and teachers need to help them make their efforts vital.

Importance of the Sustaining Vote

The members of a ward find it quite simple to raise their hands when the names of people are read to fill the various offices in the Church. Sometimes the presiding officer, so familiar with this procedure, does this assignment in such a routine way that the members, without thinking, raise their hands to sustain. This is not a healthy situation to have in any ward. However, more frequently, the lack of thought in the process of sustaining leaders is on the part of the members. Their indifference is clearly expressed in their failure to support the sustained leader with their participation in the activity involved in the discharge of his duty.

Sustained by Action. When a member of a ward raises his hand to sustain a person in office, he is exercising one of the most important duties and privileges given to the membership of the Church. In the 26th Section of the Doctrine and

Covenants we read, "No person is to be ordained to any office in this church, where there is a regularly organized branch of the same, without the vote of that church" (verse 65).

The vote of a member should be carefully thought through before it is expressed. This is not a democratic process in the common meaning of the term. We believe the leadership is divinely called and operates under the inspiration of the Lord. Therefore, when the appropriate officer proposes and presents people to be sustained, the membership have the privilege of raising their hands for or against the recommendation. Usually the presiding officer will explain that the majority rules, but he would give consideration to the objections of the dissenting individual, after the meeting. By a member's raising his hand to sustain, he approves the selection, the assignment and he fully agrees to support the leader in carrying out the duties of his office. The responsibility of the sustaining member is met by his activity in helping to make the officer or teacher successful. Proper action is more important than words or signs.

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness" (D & C 58:27). Active support in the Church requires doing many things without having to be commanded. This admonition applies to both officers and members. A case in point could be the accomplishment of the home teaching program. There is much room to do good over and above the re-

75

JANUARY 1964

[ADVERTISEMENT WITH ILLUSTRATION OF FOUR WOMEN'S HEADS]

SACRED MUSIC
FOR WOMEN'S
THREE PART
CHORUSES

...... FORTH IN THY NAME,
O LORD, I GO—Madsen.......... .20

...... IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP
MY COMMANDMENTS
—Madsen............................... .25

...... IN THY FORM—Madsen........... .20

...... HEAVENS ARE TELLING
—Haydn ................................ .25

...... LORD, GOD OF OUR
FATHERS—Armstrong.............. .25

...... LORD IS MY LIGHT—Allitsen.... .25

...... LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS
HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen........ .20

...... MY SOUL IS ATHIRST
FOR GOD—Madsen.................. .20

...... O LOVELY LAND,
AMERICA—Madsen ................. .20

...... OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert........ .20

Use this advertisement as your
order blank

Music Sent on Approval

DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY
15 E. 1st South
Salt Lake City 11, Utah
Please send the music indicated
above.
□ On Approval    □ Charge
□ Money Enclosed

Name .........................................
Address .....................................
City and State ...........................

[LOGO: Daynes Music Company with piano keys design]
15 E. 1st South
Salt Lake City 11, Utah

quirements in the discharge of this assignment, yet at times pressure must be exerted to get the visits made before the month ends. There are examples in other organizations illustrating the need of one's sustaining action as well as the uplifted hand.

Limitations in Church Callings

At the time a person is called to serve in any office in this Church, careful instructions should be given as to his duties and responsibilities. A true quality of leadership is to recognize the extent of the responsibility of the office. The individual also should seek diligently to know his duty in the office to which he has been called. (D & C 107:99-100.)

There is a close and interlocking relationship with every activity and function in the organization of the Church. It all comes under the direction of the Priesthood and insures the orderly operation of the kingdom. When duties are clearly defined and the directions followed, effective operation of the program is assured. This still leaves room for the expression of the personality and the initiative of the leader in executing his assignment. The secret of success in all Church work is being in tune with the Spirit of God and keeping in mind always the purpose and objective of the plan of life and salvation — which is to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man.

Many Called But Few Are Chosen. In the 121st Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we are reminded that to be chosen, one must be in tune with the Lord. The

76

things of this world can and do become so important that they interfere with the discharge of our assignments in the Church. The rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven and can only be controlled upon the principles of righteousness.

One cannot serve the Lord satisfactorily in any office or calling in this Church unless the principles of righteousness and the purpose of the Church hold first place in one's thinking and acting. There is no place for substitutes, or halfway marks in this particular. The inability to achieve this dedication is why "many are called but few are chosen." They may not be chosen because of their failure to use the opportunity and knowledge with which they have been blessed to pursue the work of the Lord. (See D & C 95:5-6.)

2. Love, the Guiding and Ruling Principle of Authority of the Church. Once again we return to the oft referred to and divine characteristic of love of fellow men. In the following quotation, the importance and power of love as the dominant motivation in the Priesthood is forcefully presented.

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned;

By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile—

Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy;

That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death.

Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven.

The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever (D & C 121:41-46).

To execute one's calling properly in this Church, a person should study and follow the counsel of Section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants.

[BOXED ADVERTISEMENT]
LET US HELP YOU TRAVEL
WORRY FREE
To
HAWAII and SOUTH PACIFIC
(New low fares)
EUROPE
21 Day Excursion Tours
(Save 30%)
BOOK OF MORMON LAND
TOUR—Jan. 16th
THE HOLY LAND
including Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel
Turkey, Greece and Italy
(With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon—March 5th)
HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT
August 1st
including World Fair in New York
(With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon)
(Authorized Agent for all Domestic and
International Carriers)

MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC.
(Bonded)
(Your Experienced Travel Counselor)
14 South Main Street
328-3161
Salt Lake City
"There is no substitute for experience"

LESSON DEPARTMENT

77

WORLD'S FAIR TOURS

21 days — June 21 to July 11
World's Fair, Church historical places
(does not include pageant).

27 days — July 13 to August 8
World's Fair, Church historical places.
Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also,
Quebec and Montreal, Canada.

24 days — July 23 to August 15
World's Fair, Church historical places,
including Hill Cumorah Pageant.

All tours include: Show at Jones'
Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway
Show and a special event ticket at
World's Fair, etc.

Esther James Tours
460 7th Avenue
Salt Lake City, Utah 84103
Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051

GOLD
MEDALLION
HOME

[MEDALLION LOGO: Circular medallion with "GOLD MEDALLION HOME" text around the perimeter, showing a house with family figures and "LIVE BETTER ELECTRICALLY" text]

A wonderful new
way to live

UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
Buy now from your dealer

Summary

The opportunities and responsibilities involved in a calling in Church government are about equal in their bearing upon the person involved. The opportunities result in growth and development of the individual. The responsibilities require service to others; assisting them in their pursuit of happiness, understanding, and perfection. This unselfish dedication to service increases the efficiency and effectiveness of the person and builds confidence and competency in his leadership. The compensation is great in net returns to the individual accepting a calling. The true value of service is derived from the consecration of time and talent to the work of the Lord which, in simple terms, is the uplifting of mankind.

References

Doctrine and Covenants 58:211.
WIDTSOE, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 16; 18.
TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Articles of Faith, Chapters 10; 24.
SMITH, HENRY A., "Dynamic Leadership of the First Presidency Accelerates Pace of Church-Wide Activity," Church News, December 29, 1962, page 6.

Thoughts for Discussion

1. In what way does the law of consecration apply in this lesson?
2. What human characteristics interfere most with service in behalf of and consideration for the welfare of mankind?
3. What is the importance of lay leadership in the plan of salvation?
4. What are the opportunities that arise out of service in the Church program?
5. What is the proper procedure for notifying a person of his selection for an office in the Church?
6. What is the problem involved in this quotation "Many are called, but few are chosen"?

78
