[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 62 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher MessaCgher i s—ti n e" W hHe.r e Rfoobrien,s o Bne Not Weary in Well-Doing" | ]

Not Weary in Well-Doing" (D & C 64:33).
Christine H. Robinson
For First Meeting, April 1964
Objective: To show that great accomplishments come through doing small things well.

WHEN the Lord gave the instruction "Be not weary in well-doing," he emphasized the fact that great accomplishments come out of doing small things well. In the same verse in the Doctrine and Covenants, he

62

LESSON DEPARTMENT

said, "out of small things proceedeth that which is great." As we admire and applaud the honors which come to certain individuals as a result of their great accomplishments, we are prone to overlook the fact that these outstanding achievements have come only as a result of their having done well a great number of small and, often, tedious routine things. This is true of a priceless piece of art, of a fine symphony, or of a beautiful building architecturally. Only when minute care is given to the small details, can the finished product be great.

The story is told that when Michelangelo was working on one of his great masterpieces, a friend called and observed him at his work. Some weeks later this friend visited the master artist again, but could see very little change in the painting. When he commented thus, Michelangelo pointed out that he had changed slightly the expression of the eyes, had added a little color here, and changed a line there. "But these are small details," the friend replied.

"Yes," the artist responded, "but perfection is composed of details, but perfection is no detail."

In avoiding "weariness in well-doing," we should recognize the joy that comes from doing well the little, good things. It is a truism that no one can really accomplish great things without being good, and most frequently true goodness springs from the simple little things.

Recently a prominent newspaper published an editorial praising the life of an outstanding woman who had passed away. The editorial emphasized the fact that her life had been beautifully meaningful, because in many little ways she had brought inspiration and encouragement to others. She had consistently put service above any consideration of personal comfort or convenience. Over a long period of years, on a firm, self-imposed schedule, she had frequently visited the old and shut-ins. On a birthday in her late eighties she acknowledged the gift of a box of candy by saying, "This is wonderful, I'll take it to some of the old folks I'm visiting." Most of these "old folks" were younger than she. This is the type of selfless, dedicated "well-doing" which distinguishes a life and makes it great. Someone has said that the requisite for great living is the ability to do common things uncommonly well. All of us can wisely profit by applying to our lives the divine instruction of not wearying in well-doing.

James Allen in his book The Heavenly Life, page 39, sums up this thought with these lines, "Lay up each year thy harvest of well-doing, wealth that kings nor thieves can take away. When all the things thou callest thine, goods, pleasures, honors fail; lo! thou in thy virtue shalt survive them all."

Let us follow the admonition of the Lord when he said, "Wherefore, be not weary in well-doing," recognizing the fact that "out of small things proceedeth that which is great."

63
