[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 50 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities | Hulda Parker]

Notes FROM THE FIELD

General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker

All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions.

RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Central German Mission, Rhine-Ruhr District Singing Mothers Present Music for District Conference
March 1963

Seated at the right in the second row: Ruby Mae Richards, former president, Central German Mission Relief Society; seated, front row, at the right: Katherine M. Miller, chorister.

Sister Richards reports: "This fine chorus furnished the music for the March district conference at Duesseldorf. Sister Miller is the wife of the building supervisor in Essen. We are very proud of our chorus, and especially proud of Sister Miller. She has had years of experience as chorister in her stake in Ogden, Utah. With her talent and her sweet, loving personality, she had our sisters singing like angels, in spite of the fact she could speak only a few words of German.

"Also participating at the conference as organist was Sister Koehler; also present was Martha Amenda, President of the Rhine-Ruhr District Relief Society."

Ruth Watkins Benson is the new president of the Central German Mission.

50

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Torrance Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference
May 12, 1963

Mary Jane Rahlf, President, Torrance Stake Relief Society, stands second from the right in the front row; Kathryn L. Squire, former president, stands at the left in the front row; Norma I. Gagon, chorister, stands next to Sister Squire; Jean L. Terry, accompanist, is seated at the piano.

Sister Rahlf reports: "This conference marked the third one at which our Singing Mothers have been privileged to perform. In October 1962 they produced a very successful musical, and are planning a Christmas musical for 1963 under the very able direction of Sister Gagon. Our membership totals forty-five, but we are expanding rapidly with renewed enthusiasm."

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Mount Logan Stake, Utah, Relief Society Officers
August 15, 1963

Left to right: Ella O. Davis, Secretary-Treasurer; Delilah Marshall, First Counselor; Ella H. Rinderknecht, Second Counselor; Anna O. Smith, former President.

Sister Smith reports: "The table arrangement was done by Hazel Henderson, in colors of blue and gold. Most of the grapes she made of wax. For special occasions, Sister Henderson has made beautiful table arrangements for the Relief Society Stake Board."

Lola Gibbons is the new president of Mount Logan Stake Relief Society.

51

JANUARY 1964

Napa Stake (California) Relief Society Presents "Singing Mothers' Night"
May 17, 1963

Front row, left to right: Florence Williams, chorister; Thurza Foster, organist; Karen Murdock, soprano soloist; Marjorie Remington, pianist.
Second row from the back, left to right: Sarah Neerings, Education Counselor; Dorothy Blaisdell, President, Napa State Relief Society.
The program consisted of a number of offerings by the Singing Mothers, as well as vocal solos and piano solos. The presentation was beautifully rendered and very well received. Singers participating represented the following wards: Fairfield, Napa, Napa Second, Vallejo, Vallejo Second, and Vacaville.

Pocatello Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference
May 5, 1963

Marilyn Rishton, chorister, stands at the right on the front row, and Mary Merkeley, accompanist, stands at the left on the front row.
Emily S. Romig, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: "This group of fifty-three Singing Mothers presented the music for the morning session of the stake quarterly conference. The Church Authorities present, along with Pocatello Stake President Roland K. Hart, praised the Singing Mothers for their lovely appearance, and for their singing. We are particularly proud of the many young mothers in this group. This was the first conference in our new stake and ward building. It was less than a year ago when ground was broken for this building. Sister Lila Walch attended the conference as the representative of the General Board of Relief Society."

Montpelier Stake (Idaho) Honors Ward Officers and Class Leaders at Leadership Meeting
May 1963

Front row, seated, left to right: ward presidents: Elma Boehme, Geneva; Elda Folmer, Montpelier Second Ward; Ora Bunneson, Montpelier Fifth Ward; Helen Lindsay, Dingle Ward; Zora Peterson, Montpelier Third Ward; Naomi Bacon, Georgetown Ward.
The other sisters in the picture are counselors, secretaries, and other officers and class leaders.
June R. Shepherd, President, Montpelier Stake Relief Society, reports: "Ward and class leaders who attained a record of 100 per cent attendance at stake leadership meetings during the year were honored by Montpelier Stake Relief Society at the closing meeting. Each sister was presented with a lovely corsage made by Evelyn Kunz, stake work meeting leader. Montpelier Fifth Ward Relief Society also received special honors for having eighty-five per cent of their officers and class leaders in attendance at leadership meetings all during the year, and also for having had a record of perfect attendance of executive officers. This ward was presented with the book The Mormon Story for their library."

52

[PHOTOGRAPH - Top image shows a large group of women in white blouses and dark skirts arranged in rows, appears to be a choir or similar organization]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Middle image shows another large group of women in white blouses and dark skirts arranged in rows with flower arrangements visible on tables in front]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Bottom image shows a smaller mixed group of men and women in various clothing, appears to be a more informal gathering]

53

JANUARY 1964

Nampa Stake (Idaho) Handwork Display at "Friendship Day"
May 3, 1963

Alta Fuhriman, President, Nampa Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our stake Relief Society had a 'Friendship Day' as our last event of the season. We had printed invitations made, and enough were given to each ward so that each sister could receive one and also receive extras to be sent to her friends and neighbors. For our program, the stake Singing Mothers furnished two numbers. One was a special arrangement of the familiar Latter-day Saint hymn 'Come, Come, Ye Saints.' The literature department arranged and directed the literature presentation which the General Board gave at the Relief Society Conference in October 1962. We are happy to say it was very well done. We had a guest book to be signed by each one attending, one side for members, and the other side for guests. We had ordered 150 copies of The Relief Society Magazine so that we would have a copy to give to each of our guests. We were pleased that we had so many guests that we ran out of copies of the Magazine, yet sorry that we did not have enough for all.

"After the program everyone was invited to see our handicraft fair on display in the cultural hall. It was there, also, that we served refreshments of homemade cookies and frappé punch. We were thrilled with the success of the day. There were over 600 in attendance. Many favorable comments and expressions of appreciation were received from our guests, as well as from our members."

Orange County Stake (California) Inter-Faith Social
May 24, 1963

Left to right: Mary S. Grasteit, President, Orange County Stake Relief Society; Ruth Bell, Work Director Counselor; Mary Middleton, work meeting leader; Kathern Markes, Education Counselor.

Sister Grasteit reports: "We held our first Inter-Faith Social on May 24, 1963, and were very pleased with its success. Our program was on the Relief Society. To a narration on the history of Relief Society, we added film slides, and each class leader gave an over-all view of the purpose of her day at Relief Society. Our Singing Mothers added great inspiration to the day, climaxed by a special arrangement of 'Come, Come, Ye Saints.' Everyone was invited to remain seated after the benediction, and the Singing Mothers sang 'Come to the Fair' as a musical invitation to join in the cultural hall for displays and refreshments.

"Each of the class leaders, along with the Magazine representative, planned her display table to show the educational value of Relief Society. We have ten wards, and each ward was assigned one table for the work display. The tables included actual demonstrations of bread making, cake decorating, candy, and sweet rolls, plus how to make yarn flowers, organza roses, and flower arranging. Other tables were filled with such items as smocked pillows, pixie dolls, mosaics, children's clothes, and the Christmas table, as shown in the picture. Our serving tables were decorated with beautiful floral arrangements of organza roses, which had been made by our board members. We had an attendance of 450 women, of whom more than fifty per cent were non-members of the Church, with at least thirty different church denominations being represented. The visitors were thrilled and amazed at the wonderful program of Relief Society, and many expressed a desire to attend."

54

[PHOTOGRAPH: Display of handcrafted items including lace work, decorative items, and what appears to be a wooden cradle or furniture piece]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Four women standing behind a table display with wreaths, decorative items, and crafts]

55

JANUARY 1964

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Kanab Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers at Convention
May 17, 1963

At left: Estella Jackson, Fredonia Ward, age eighty-six, who has served sixty-nine years as a visiting teacher; at the right: Denise Parks, Page Ward, nineteen years of age, a recent convert to the Church, who has served as a visiting teacher for a few months.

Cecil M. Fisher, President, Kanab Stake Relief Society, reports: "On May 17th we had a wonderful visiting teacher convention. We were thrilled to honor Estella Jackson, who has served for sixty-nine years as a visiting teacher, and we still active in that calling. We feel that this is a most outstanding record. We also honored Ruby Swapp from the Kanab North Ward who has been a visiting teacher for fifty years. Also honored was Denise Parks, Page Ward, nineteen years of age, a new convert to the Church, who has been a visiting teacher for a few months, and is continuing in this work."

Attractive programs, featuring the Relief Society emblem on the cover, and listing the names of all the visiting teachers in the stake, were distributed at the convention. The number of years of service of each visiting teacher was listed, as well as her ward or branch.

56

LESSON DEPARTMENT

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman with short hair holding an open book, with one hand raised in a teaching gesture]
