[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 28 | General Feature | Notes to the Field: Bound Volumes of the 1963 Magazines | ]
[Notes to the Field: Bound Volumes of the 1963 Magazines]

Notes to the Field

Bound Volumes of 1963 Magazines

Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1963 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret New Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.75, leather $4.20, including the index. A limited number of 1963 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1963 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries.

The New March of Dimes
Fight Birth Defects - Fight Arthritis
The National Foundation

YOUR March of Dimes aid dollars are now working harder than ever. There are more than seventy March of Dimes Centers in fifty-one cities across the United States. Typical of such centers are the Birth Defects Special Treatment Center at the L.D.S. Primary Children's Hospital in Salt Lake City, Utah, and the Juvenile Arthritis Special Treatment Center at the University of Utah. In these centers each working day finds dedicated, skilled men and women continuing the fight against Birth Defects that strike a newborn child in America every other minute of the day, and against the Nation's Number One Crippler — Arthritis, which now afflicts eleven million Americans.

In our fight against Birth Defects, your March of Dimes contributions are also supporting a broad range of studies to determine why Birth Defects and Arthritis occur, how they may be prevented, and the best means for correcting disease and disability.

Despite polio's heroic push to oblivion, thanks to the Salk and Sabin vaccines which you literally bought and paid for through the March of Dimes, there are still many partially or completely paralyzed victims who need help and further rehabilitation.

Give to the 1964 March of Dimes and your treatment centers will be able to continue in their search for hope and help for the child born less than perfect. Give generously to your 1964 March of Dimes.

28

LOST
STAR

Hazel K. Todd

[ILLUSTRATION]

WITH strange anticipation the well-dressed young woman stood alone in the falling snow before the old house in the trees. She had come through the sagging gate, down the snow-filled path where, as a child, her dancing feet had sped. The taxi that had brought her from the airport was rapidly disappearing into the white mist down the country road, taking with it the driver who had raised an eyebrow questioningly as he deposited her expensive luggage at the porch. But how could he know by looking at the old house sleeping there, of the Christmas warmth it had held within its ancient walls! The woman stared at the great carved door. How could she hope to find the something of Christmas she had lost, that used to be here in this silent old house! For the parents who had brought her here as a child were gone, and the grandparents who had hung the great tree with tinsel and angels were gone, too, these twelve years. And she, Joan Mason, an accomplished dress designer and owner of the old house, alone, was left.

For a minute she turned and stared back the way she had come. But the taxi had already disappeared in the mist of falling snow. Slowly she opened her purse and fumbled in it to bring out an ancient key tied with a red string. For a few seconds she gazed thoughtfully at it and then she fitted it into the black lock of the door. It turned easily with the generations of years of experience behind it. The door swung open and she stepped inside. Standing there with her back to the door, her eyes traveled expectantly over the old familiar things as if already the lost essence should sing out, "You are here! At last I am found!" But they were silent, the things she had known, the red plush sofa, the bookcase with its glass doors and its rows of books, the elaborately framed pictures of her ancestors on the wall, the mantel where she had hung her Christmas stockings long ago.

In the great fireplace wood lay unkindled. With a warm tingle of old familiarity she turned to the carved bird on the mantel with its match-filled wings.

In a few minutes the fire was blazing comfortably. She had hung her wraps in the hall closet and put away the groceries that she had bought in the village on the way. Now she sat before the fire in the old rocking chair where her grandmother had rocked.

29

JANUARY 1964

Vinson would be surprised if he could see her here. She went over again the words she had scribbled so hurriedly on a sudden impulse:

Dear Vinc,
I won't be able to go on the house party. I hope you'll forgive me. I've gone to find something of Christmas I had once and lost.
                                        —Joan

She never would have thought of writing the note or of coming, if the letter hadn't arrived in the mail yesterday morning from the Grays, the aged couple who were the caretakers of the old home that had come to her as an inheritance from her grandparents. The letter had simply stated that an unexpected opportunity had come for them to spend the winter in Arizona, and they were enclosing the key.

In all the years the old place had belonged to her she had paid no heed to it, except for the checks she mailed for its maintenance. But yesterday, when she opened the letter, the key with the red string unleashed a stream of memories that rushed and tumbled over each other until she wept softly into the folds of the scarf in her hands.

She saw her grandfather placing the great log on the fire. She danced around the Christmas tree while they hung it with wonderful treasures from an old brown box, candles with real fire, popcorn, and homemade chains. And there at the top, a great silver star painted on a smooth board and wound with tinsel and beads. And her grandmother had wrapped it and unwrapped it very carefully each year, because, as she had explained to Joan (who was Joanna then), it represented the

Baby Jesus when he was born in Bethlehem.

So deep in the midst of clamoring memories was she, that the knocking at the door might have been her grandfather, his arms filled with the Yule log, demanding admittance. As in a dream, Joan rose and started across the room. Then she halted. This was not her grandfather! Someone to see the Grays. She was about to return to her chair when the knock came again. It roused a curious impulse, and she found herself at the door looking down into the small, heart-shaped face of a child. She was a quaint little girl with long dark braids hanging from a queer little knitted cap with a peaked top. She wore a long gray coat and heavy overshoes. In her mittened hand she carried a brightcolored sand pail that might have been from a different world. At sight of Joan the child's brow puckered in a puzzled expression, and she brushed her free hand over her cheek in an odd little mannerism.

Joan looked at the child with curiosity. At least this was something new and different. "Won't you come in?" she asked, still holding the door.

The child hesitated. "But where is Mrs. Gray? I wanted her to help me find the star."

Joan looked at the bucket, wondering. "I am very sorry," she said, "Mrs. Gray isn't here any more."

The child's face fell. For a moment Joan thought she was going to cry. Quickly she tried to make amends. "Perhaps — perhaps I could help you." She looked at the bucket again. "Did you say a star?"

30
