SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	MAY 15, 1889.


[Column 1]﻿
WASHINGTON’S INAUGURATION.
	On the 30th, of April a century ago in the city
of New York a ceremony took place which has
just now been commemorated throughout the
United States in a fitting manner after the lapse
of a hundred years. The inauguration of George
Washington the first president of the Great Re-
public is an event of such importance that the
nation can well afford to celebrate with charac-
teristic observances the hundredth anniversary.
“First in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts
of his countrymen,” was this great General, hero
and President. After all these long years his
name is everywhere spoken with tenderness and
reverence.
	An interesting and memorable centennial cele-
bration of the anniversary of the first inauguration
is indeed a just and honorable tribute to the mem-
ory of this illustrious General patriot and states-
man, and awakens in the hearts of the people an
appreciation of the blessings that have come down
to them as a heritage from the efforts and labors
of those heroic men whom God inspired to es-
tablish religious liberty and freedom upon this
goodly land, America.
	New York City was very different then from
what it is to-day. The ceremonials of the time
were however very grand and elaborate, and the
display was on a magnificent scale. The formal
official ceremony took place in the Senate
Chamber of the Federal State House, which
looked out upon Broad Street.
	“The windows and the roofs of the houses were
crowded and in the streets the throng was so
dense that it seemed as if one might literally walk
on the heads of the people. The balcony of the
hall was in full view of this assembled multitude.
In the centre of it was placed a table with a rich
covering of red velvet and upon this on a crimson
velvet cushion lay a large and elegant Bible.”
	General Washington’s “entrance on the
balcony was announced by universal shouts of joy
and welcome. His appearance was most solemn
and dignified. Advancing to the front of the
balcony he laid his hand on his heart bowed
several times, and then retired to an arm-chair
near the table. The populace appeared to under-
stand that the scene had overcome him and were
at once hushed in profound silence. After a few
moments Washington arose and came forward,
Chancellor Livingston read the oath according to
the form prescribed by the Constitution, and
Washington repeated it resting his hand upon the
table. Mr. Otis the Secretary of the Senate, then
took the Bible and raised it to the lips of Wash-
ington, who stooped and kissed the book. At
this moment a signal was given by raising a flag
upon the cupola of the hall for a general discharge
of the artillery of the Battery. All the bells in
the city rang out a peal of joy, and the assembled

[Column 2]
multitude sent forth a universal shout: The Presi-
dent again bowed to the people and then retired
from a scene such as the proudest monarch never
enjoyed."
	The ball which was to have been given on the
evening of Inauguration Day was postponed until
May 5th, 1789. Of the ladies who were present on
that occasion much has been said and written and
the subject has been revived during the last few
weeks, and the dresses and jewels worn by them
as well as their illustrious names received due
prominence. The ball was given in the Assembly
Rooms which were in a large wooden building
standing upon the site of the Old City Hall or at
115. Broadway where the Barrell building now is.
About three hundred were present and it is said
Washington danced in the cotillion and in the
minuet at this ball.
	The general centennial celebration of the in-
auguration of George Washington took place in
New York on the 30th of April last, although in
all parts of the United States there were services
and ceremonials and it was observed everywhere
as a National holiday. Utah was not an exception
to the general rule. In the large Tabernacle in
Salt Lake City, also in Ogden and in Provo, there
were suitable services, speeches and music. The
orator of the day in Salt Lake City was Lieut. R.
W. Young a grandson of Brigham Young. In
Provo Bishop O. F. Whitney delivered the ora-
torial address. Both these young gentlemen
acquitted themselves admirably and delighted the
assembled populace. In Salt Lake City the Hon.
Geo. Q. Cannon made a thrilling patriotic speech;
we should be glad to publish in full the speeches
made on the occasion but that is not practicable.
The daily newspapers give full reports of the
wonderful proceedings, parades, speeches and
music, in all the cities and towns throughout the
country. Hereafter we may give some sketches
of the proceedings in New York City.


