			OBITUARIES.

	Died Feb. 27th, 1889, at her residence at St. Charles,
Bear Lake County; Sarah Ingersol Holmes. Deceased
was born Sept., 16th, 1816, at Gloucester, Essex County,
Mass., her father’s name was Isaac Harvey, mother’s name
Dorcas Curtice.
	Sister Holmes crossed the plains in 1853 and went
through to California, stayed there one year then went back
East where she stayed till 1862; in that year she came back
to the Valley and settled at Farmington, Davis County,
She was well known as the Stake President of the Relief
Society of Davis Stake. She was the president of the
Relief Society of Farmington for a number of years pre-
vious. Since her residence at St. Charles, she has been
connected with the Relief Society and Primary of that
Stake, 
	Sister Holmes retained her faculties, until the last, her
son Brother Leonard Floyd, of St. Charles brought her
remains, according to her own request, to be buried be-
side those of her husband in the cemetery of Farmington.
The funeral services were held at the meeting house which
was crowded with her friends, President W. R. Smith,
Anson Call, Bishop Secrist, Elder J. T. Smith, Sisters
Mary S. Clark, Hortensia Leonard and Aurelia Rogers
made remarks on the life and conduct of the deceased.
	She was one of the noblest of women, of her it might be
said "Faithful and true in all things” she lived and died a
saint in the hope of a part in the first resurection. 
	 									COM.

	Died, at Vermillion, Sevier Co., U. T., March 7th, 1889,
Augusta Amelia, beloved wife of Niels Anderson.
	She was born July 3rd, 1845, in Sweden. Was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints July
30th, 1867, emigrated to Utah in 1865. She married Niels
Anderson Feb., 17th, 1866, entering into the principle of
Celestial Marriage. She was a firm believer and advocate
of all the principles pertaining to the New and Everlasting
Covenant. She held the office of President of the Y. L. M.
I. A., of this ward, until compelled by ill-health to resign.
Since the organization of the Relief Society she has been
an active member, and her many acts of kindness have en-
deared her to all.	
	She leaves an aged husband and six children besides
numerous relatives and friends to mourn her departure.
	 			PAULINE L. DASTRUP, Sec., R. S.
	Vermillion, April 17th, 1889.

	We feel it our duty to acquaint you with the death of
two of our beloved sisters, here in Monroe. Sister Mary
Griffiths, wife of David Griffiths, died March 1st, of
punemonia at this place.
	She was born at Little Lever Lancashire, England, Feb.
9, 1811. She leaves a husband, two sons, and two
daughters, and several grand children to mourn her loss.
	Sister Griffiths has been a faithful member of the Relief
Society since its organization: she was also faithful in all
the duties of a true Latter-day Saint, and rejoiced in the 
enjoyment of the blessings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ,
always trying to do right, and to be humble before the
Lord.
	She has done some work in the Temple, and felt to
praise God for His goodness and mercy. She has also
fulfilled a glorious mission among our sisters, and will long
be remembered by many.

	At Monroe, March 29th, '89, Sister Charlotte Doxford
born April 10, 1813, County of Durham, England. She
was the wife of Joseph F. Doxford. Sister Doxford's last
sickness was dropsy, and for upwards of three months be-
fore her death, she has suffered at times quite severely, yet 
always trusting in the Lord, and depending upon his
goodness and mercy. She has been a true and faithful
mother in Israel, and leaves a husband, two sons and two
daughters, and many grand children to mourn her loss.
	She has gone through many of the hardships encountered
in settling new countries, but was always ready to do all she
could wherever her help was required. She selected the
hymns to be sung at her funeral, which were sung ac-
cording to her request.
	The funeral services of both these sisters, were held at
the meeting house, where the sisters of the Relief Society
had draped the stand and arch over the coffin with white,
and had flowers suitable for such solemn occasions.

		May they rest in peace until the resurrection, 
		When all the faithful will receive their reward.

	Our Relief Society is in a prosperous condition; the
sisters are taking quite an interest in our monthly testimony

[Column 2]
meetings. We have also started weekly meetings again;
they are very well attended. Our teachers are alive to
their duties. 
		Respectfully your sisters in the Gospel, 
				CLARINDA WASHBURN, President.
				MARY SWINDLE, Secretary.


Training School for Nurses
	On the first of June, the Second Term of Dr.
Hughes’ Training School for Nurses begins, a class
of twelve (12) students completing their first term of
three months on the fourth of May. This is the
first Training School for Nurses established in
Utah, and the instruction given embraces the best
methods of teaching of the Eastern Schools, whose
systems have been thoroughly investigated by the
teacher. The purpose of this school is to give a 
wider knowledge of waiting upon the sick, and all
the branches pertaining to nursing will be thorough-
ly discussed in the successive terms. The second
term will be held in Dr. Hughes’ new residence, on
First West Street. Students desiring to enter, should
make application as early as possible, so that ar-
rangements can be made for securing text books.
	TUITION,	-	-	-	$25.00
	Special arrangements can be made for Obstetrical 
teaching.  Address:
			M. P.  Hughes,
P.O. Box 575. 				Salt Lake City, Utah.

