SILVER WEDDING.
	Quite a large party of friends of Mrs. Emily H.
Woodmansee assembled at her residence in this
City on the evening of May 7th, to offer their con-
gratulations on the anniversary of her wedding
day twenty-five years previous, and to express
their esteem for one who has contributed so much
to home literature in Utah.  For more than thirty
years Mrs. Woodmansee has written from time
to time, poems that have voiced the sentiments of
the “Mormon” people, and which invariably con-
tain the true ring of the pure metal.  Many choice
gifts of silver articles were brought as small
tokens of friendship and the appreciation of her
labors.  The house was handsomely decorated
with flowers and brilliantly lighted for the occa-
sion.  One thing detracted somewhat from the
enjoyment of the affair; it was the absence of one
of the principal parties in the contract twenty-five
years ago—Mr. Woodmansee himself-—however
the guests were “on pleasure bent,” and there
was much feasting and merriment.  Several fine
singers rendered favorite melodies and simple
ballads awakening sweet and tender memories,
among them were Mrs. Maggie Romney once a
popular songstress, but whom we seldom hear


now-a-days, also Miss Fanny Graehl, Miss Nettie
Raliegh and Miss Gladys Woodmansee—and we
must not neglect to mention in this connection
Mr. C. W. Stayner and Mr. C. R. Savage, The
principal feature of the entertainment, however,
was a poem written by Mrs. Woodmansee and
read by her during the evening as a welcome to
her guests.
		A WORD OF WELCOME.
				———
ADDRESSED TO AN ASSEMBLAGE OF FRIENDS.
				———
	Welcome ! welcome, friends and guests—
		To the best my house can give;
	I am honored, pleased and blessed, 
		Your kind notice to receive.
			Near and dear ye are forsooth
			In the bonds of love and truth.

	From the utmost ends of earth,
		From the kin we call'd our own;
	From the lands that gave us birth,
		Came we here for truth alone;
			Heaven hath made us rich amends.
			Heaven hath sent us sterling friends.

	"In the mountain of the Lord,
		Where resplendent Temples rise,
	Where Jehovah's law and word
		  Goeth forth" to make us wise;
			Where congenial spirits meet,
			Social bliss is most complete.

	High and low, the pure of heart
		On an equal platform stand;
	Wherefore should we drift apart,
		"Be ye one" 'tis Christ's command,
			Pride of riches, pride of race
			Is, in Zion, out of place.


	False distinctions mar the age,
		Haughty souls contempt inspire; 
	Goodness ! is God's standard guage,
		Yet, will modest worth mount higher.
			Children of the King of Kings,
			Be not slaves to friv'lous things.


	Subtle foes our homes surround—
		Waiting on their prey to spring;
	Honest friends are captive bound—
		Close together should we cling.
		 	Link'd by love, both hand and heart—
			Each to each can strength impart.


	Though we drain Life's mingled cup,
		Joys we have beyond compare.
	"Saints of Latter-days" look up !
		Days await us bright and fair.
			Tribulation, loss and pain,
			Yet shall yield us endless gain.

	'Neath this roof, to-night, my friends,
		May you some enjoyment see;
	Cordially my heart extends—
		Unto each a welcome free.
			Welcome, welcome, great and small,
			Welcome, welcome one and all.
