WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	  WOMAN SUFFRAGE MEETING.
			[CONTINUED]
	A well written address was then delivered
by
		DR. MARTHA P. HUGHES.
	To make men and women nobler, or purer,
or more intelligent, is the object of every
worthy enterprise, political and social, and
without such an aim, every undertaking should 
fail. That such has been the endeavor of the
earnest workers in the field we are now investi-
gating is beyond a doubt in my mind. It is
remarked by one of our modern thinkers,
"that it is not enough to be prompted by a
good motive or be inspired with a zealous de-
sire for the welfare of men and women, for
often honest enthusiasm and conscientious
finaticism have been the exponents of ruinous
schemes and fearful woes, neither is it sufficient
to simply find the instruments for the work of
progress and reform, there must be a combina-
tion of motive and work, a blending of in-
tellect and emotion, a strong desire with a firm 
hand, a righteous purpose with competent skill
to accomplish any permanent good, or to carry
to success any needed reform."
	In the woman's suffrage movements of recent
times there has been exhibited nearly every con-
ceivable combination of motive and instru-
mentality, and the success attending the labors
of philanthropists who have been engaged in
this work of reform has been in many ways
equally vacillating, complicated and discon-
nected, yet out of the work of the last forty
years, those interested in woman's advance-
ment, can find much to encourage and repay
them, and woman to-day has attained a posi-
tion legal and social far above that she held
half a century ago. The women of to-day have
obtained from men their much desired and
much deserved liberty. In these times the
standards of value have been readjusted, and
whereas once physical force and reckless cour-
age, were held in the highest and almost exclu-
sive esteem of mankind, now the jewels of wis-
dom, purity, culture, beauty, love and skill
have a value, that outweigh and can purchase
that brute force once so priceless. Once to be 
born a female. was to become a plaything and
a slave, to-day in the best and most powerful
circles, woman is the peer of the noblest man.
	There was a time when women possessed
none of the rights which they have to day, and
the increasing respect, which the law-makers
are showing them, marks with its various gradu-
ations the advancement of civilization and
Christianity. The regard which men have for
culture, refinement and purity is measured by
their love of women.  "The grade of a man's
mind, and moral attainments, can be safely es-
timated by the respect he shows his lady
friends." To feel the value of true woman-
hood, and to appreciate its delicacy, requires a 
nice and acute intellectual power. Brutes 
never feel it. Barbarous or half civilized men
never recognize it.

[Column 2]
	"The laws of a land are the best indices of
the people's acquirements, and are throughout
all history, the standard by which we judge of 
national advancement in civilization and
morals. We have but little reason to be
ashamed of our judicical standard today, for
the most impartial minds admit that our legal
practice is more just and reasonable in its deal-
ing with women, than that of any nation, or of
any time mentioned in history. There is much
however remaining for great minds to do, and
for the masses to accept, before either male or
female citizens can be said to enjoy perfect free-
dom and perfect equality. Certain it is how-
ever that never has the code of any people
given to woman such extraordinary privileges,
as have been bestowed by the judicial decisions 
and statute laws of our land."
	With the exception of the right to vote and
hold certain political offices, there are no rights
given to unmarried men which unmarried wo-
men do not possess. But it is this right to vote
that we as women of Utah are now contending
for. Having once enjoyed the elective fran-
chise, and having had it taken away from us
without cause, we are justified in appealing to
the nation to regain that which rightly belongs 
to us. That the privilege of voting, and the
holding of political offices by women is going
to do all that the zealous advocates of woman's
suffrage now claim is doubtful in my mind, still
there are no justifiable grounds on which these 
privileges should be withheld from them.
	All men and women are created free and 
equal. All are morally responsible for their
own wrongs. "The difference in their natures is
not a difference in value; but in the kind of 
merit. He has qualities which she has not, she
possesses traits and genius he does not; they
differ from each other and yet, in their worth
to the world, and to God, they are equal with
each other."
	Every human being of sound and matured
judgment should be personally responsible for
his or her own criminal conduct. Sex merely
should not debar any person from public office
or emolument if a constituency be found desir-
ious of his or her service.
	"No privileged class either of sex, wealth, or
descent should be allowed to arise or exist, all
persons should have the legal right to be the
equal of every other, if they can." After wo-
men have attained equal rights in every respect
before the law, that men now enjoy, and it is
only a matter of time when this will be the
case, there will doubtless then be some
drunken, brutal husbands, some parsimonious
and contemptible heads of families, fraud and
wrong doing, aching heads and aching hearts,
perhaps as many as now, but the skirts of the
law will be clean, and will no longer be com-
pelled to bear the blame; and woman will then
stand where she rightfully belongs, on an equal
platform with man before the law.
	"Nature, civilization, Christianity and the
chivalry of the law, as it comes to us from 
Knights of English fendal ages, all combine to
impress upon us, the moral and religious pre-
cept that women should have more rights be-
fore the law than men." But we simply ask for
equal recognition, still I am forced to feel that
many of the hardships that women endure,
arise more from custom and fashion, than from
disabilities before the law.
	"Woman as much as man is the architect of
her own fortunes. There are yet many realms
of silence to be made vocal, many scientific
truths to be discovered, many arts to be per-
fected which require the hands and the minds
of woman. She must feel her new responsibil-
ities." She must begin as nearly all great men
have begun, and give herself to the acquisition
of wisdom and skill, and her very opposition
and difficulties will be gain. Woman must throw
off her bondage to fashion, her submission to

[Column 3]
folly, and desire for frivolities. She must de-
feat the enticements of pleasure, the flatteries
and censures of men. It is a shame, even a
crime under divine laws for a woman to lace
herself into clothing, which makes a consump-
tive suicide of herself, and deteriorates the
physical being of her offspring. It is folly for
a woman who has leisure, to spend her hours
in idle gossip, in reading trashy novels, in fash-
ionable cold-hearted calls after the custom of
the world, instead of storing her mind with
useful knowledge, or instead of visiting the
sick, teaching the young, or assisting in the 
support of herself and others. 
	"All prejudices, all notions of propriety, tend
to genius and culture, a well disciplined mind
and a generous heart will look the Lion Opin-
ion in the eye and move on! He will quail be-
fore her and will assail her no more."
	May the day be hastened when we will not
only have our rights, but also know them, and
knowing dare maintain.
	The next speaker called upon was the
President of the Woman's Suffrage Association
of Ogden,
		      MRS. STANFORD
	She did not understand that the ladies of
this organization claimed equal political posi-
tions with men. They did not ask for the
offices which men only were fitted to fill. They
claimed the right of voting—the right to select
men who are to make the laws which both
sexes are required to obey. Women desired
that such men should be honorable, upright
and truth-loving. She contended that woman
ought to be acquainted with political as well as
other affairs, and that the world would be
better for her knowledge of and participation 
in them.
		HON. C. W. PENROSE
was called upon and he explained that the
right to vote and the right to hold office were 
not identical. For many years the women of
Utah exercised the former, but not the latter.
He was in favor of making no discrimination
against woman on the statute books. There
were offices which women might be able to fill
with ability and profit to themselves and the
public; there were others for which they were not
adapted. The good sense of the voters should
determine this. There were men who were
not fitted for office, but this did not debar them
from voting. He mentioned favorably a num-
ber of the leading ladies in the National Wo-
man Suffrage movement, and said he believed
they were inspired to work for the elevation of
their sex. There was one mistake they made,
and that was in demanding as a natural right
that which had been decided to be but a politi-
cal privilege. Citizenship and the suffrage
were distinct and separate. Every person born
in the United States is a citizen thereof. A
wife, daughter or widow of a citizen, even if of 
foreign birth, is a citizen. Citizenship comes
by birth or naturalization; the right to vote is
conferred by law. A woman has as much in-
herent right to vote as a man, but it is not in
either. The Legislature prescribes the quali-
fications of voters. If voting was an inherent
right, one would have a right to vote as soon as
born. The legal qualifications for voting
differed in different States and countries.
Another mistake made by some so called
“strong-minded” women suffragists was in be-
rating "the monster man" from whom they ex-
pected to obtain the elective franchise. This 
was not good policy, to say the least. A great 
obstacle in the way was the fact that most of 
the women were either opposed or indifferent
to woman suffrage. The work before the asso-
ciation was to spread information and convert
their own sex. When the women of the United
States unite to demand the elective franchise
they will get it. He considered a mistake was


[Column 1]
﻿made in trying for an amendment to the
national Constitution. The suffrage was a 
matter for each State to regulate and if one
State could be captured for woman suffrage
others would follow and eventually all would
come into line. Man and woman should be to-
gether in all things. The male and female ele-
ments were found in all nature and they were
so designed by the Creator in the beginning
and redeemed and exalted men and women
were to have dominion together for all the ages
of eternity. 
	HON. GEORGE Q. CANNON
having entered the building was requested to
address the meeting. He said: I take great
interest in every question that effects men and
women. I have always believed that if there
should be any qualifications for suffrage, sex
should not enter.  Women should have the
right to vote equal with men. I have seen
very many ignorant men exercise the right of
suffrage when they knew as little about the
questions involved as an animal, and at the
same time intelligent women were deprived of
that right. I think this a great injustice. Pro-
hibition is one of the issues of the times. The
question of intemperance, to whom does it ap-
peal most strongly, who is most interested?
The woman, naturally. It has a deeper inter-
est for woman than any one else. Woman's
voice in this and other affairs would doubtless
have a most excellent effect. I do not think
that because a woman was allowed to vote she
would necessarily be called into service in the
army or navy.
	There are those who argue this way, but I
think this is begging the question. I believe
that there are offices that woman could fill, and
many that she would not want to fill. For in-
stance, I do not imagine that a woman would
make a good constable to arrest men, or a
sheriff, to hang men. I believe the right of
suffrage would broaden the minds of the women
of this country. I have never seen any effects
in connection with woman suffrage to deplore.
The speaker referred to the good work per-
formed by able women for their sex and to the
voluntary defense of the people of Utah by
several notable ladies in Washington. He
closed by saying: I pray God to bless you in
this movement. Do not allow division or
jealousy to arise in your midst, but show to all
that you are laboring unitedly for the ad-
vancement of a great cause.
	MRS. NELLIE WEBBER.
	At the close of the present meeting an op-
portunity will be offered to all ladies who have 
not yet joined the Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion of Utah, to enroll their names with the
secretary.
	Fully believing that "in union is strength,"
we have associated ourselves with the National
Woman's Suffrage Association, so that we may
more effectively prosecute the aim and end we
have in view, namely, the enfranchisement of
woman and placing her upon a higher plane
politically than she occupies to-day. To be-
come an auxillary of the national association
we are required to pay a fee of 25 cents each.
For the first fifty enrolled members we are en-
titled to three delegates, and for each addi-
tional twenty-five members an additional dele-
gate. Our enrollment should be as large ss 
possible, because we not only want to show to
our eastern sisters that we are in real earnest
and have the cause of woman's political ad-
vancement at heart, but it gives us greater in-
fluence in the councils of the national associa-
tion, at the last meeting of which we had two
delegates to represent us, and I am pleased to 
say that our cause was most ably and satis-
factorily presented.
	For the benefit of the associations now being

[Column 2]
formed throughout the Territory, who may per-
chance adopt our present by-laws, I will say
that after having worked under them for three
months, we find that they need amending. This 
was under consideration at our last executive
session, and we hope soon to complete and pub-
lish an amended and more perfect set.
	In placing our initiation fee at 25 cents we
were laboring under a misunderstanding as to
the amount per member to be paid to the
national association. Now we learn that in-
stead of its being 25 per cent of our fee it is 25
cents per member, and as the matter now
stands our treasury is empty of funds. But
to increase the fee now would be an injustice to
incoming members, so it has been decided to
allow the present charge for membership to re-
main to the end of the year, when the fee will 
be increased. 
	Associations wishing to become auxiliary to
us can do so upon application and payment of
10 cents for each member enrolled by them.
	For the government of our meetings and ex-
ecutive sessions we have adopted "Roberts'
Rules of Order" and recommend them to all
new organizations. 
	Ladies' should take an interest in this matter
and aid us to place woman side by side politi-
cally with her husband and brother. Our
fathers contended that "taxation without repre-
sentation" was a wrong, and if it were so a hun-
dred years ago, it is no less so today. There
are many women in this Territory who pay
taxes and yet have no voice in the selection of 
public officers through whose hands this money 
is disbursed. I am satisfied that when women
hold the franchise universally we shall not only
have a better administration of public affairs,
but greater economy in all public expenditures;
and I therefore urge upon the ladies to come
forward at once and enroll their names in the
great cause for which we are struggling.
	A vote of thanks was given to the speakers
and the meeting was adjourned subject to the
call of the Secretary; to be published in the 
papers. Several ladies’ came forward and en-
rolled their names as members. The movement
is worthy the support of the women of Utah
and we hope to hear of branch associations all
over the Territory.


