WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN OGDEN.

	An official call having been previously issued,
signed by influential women of Ogden, for a 
meeting of suffragists to be held in the Ogden
tabernacle, Monday, April 1, 1889,  accordingly,
in response, there was a large number of ladies
in attendance.  The meeting was called to order
by Mrs. H. C. Brown.  Mrs.  Emily S. Richards,
having been appointed chairman of the Executive
committee for Utah, at the last Annual Conven-
tion of the N. W. S. A. in Washington D. C.
April, 1888, was nominated chairman, protem, of
the meeting.
	The chairman then stated that the first business
in order was to elect a Secretary protem.  Mrs.
Mattie A.  Cannon was elected to that position.
	Meeting opened by singing, "Know this that
every soul is free."  Prayer by the chaplain, Mrs.
Sarah Richards.
	Mrs. Ellen Hamer moved that the chairman
appoint a committee on Constitution and By-laws.
The chair appointed, Emily M. Shirtliff, Ruthinda 
Monch, and Mamie Richards.  While the com-
mittee retired, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, by request,
stated briefly, the object of the meeting.
	Mrs.  Shirtliff being ready to report, read the
By-laws, and upon motion, they were adopted as
read.  The chairman stated: "It is in
order to adjourn for ten minutes, so that
those who wish to become members may have the
privelege of signing the Constitution and becom-
ing members, by paying the initiation fee of
50 cts.
	Ten minutes being up, the house was called to
order by the chairman, who stated the next busi-
ness in order was the election of the permanent 
officers of the Association.
	Mrs. Ella Woodmansee moved that the chair

[Column 2]
appoint a committee to nominate permanent offi-
cers.  The chair then appointed Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, Mrs. H. C. Brown and Mrs. Sarah
Herrick as the committee.
	The following ladies were appointed.  Eliza-
beth Y. Stanford, President; Mamie Richards,
first vice-president; Charlotte Driver, second vice-
president;  Ellen Pingree, secretary;  Aggie
Herrick, assistant secretary; Maggie Chambers
corresponding secretary;  Ella Woodmansee,
treasurer.
	Executive committee—Chairman; Rose Canfield
—Marian Burton—Ellen Hamer—Sarah Bel-
nap—Rose Scowcroft—Belle Littlefield—Nellie
S. Thomas;—Harriet Nye.
	Mrs. A. E. Monch addressed the association
upon the topic of Woman Suffrage.  "Many men
believe that a woman's knowledge should be
limited to the home circle; but when we have
other knowledge, such as an understanding of
Civil Government and kindred subjects, we im-
prove our humble cottages, our home life.  An
eminent writer says: "Show me the mothers of a
nation and I will tell you its character."  The
lady closed with the hope of trying to encourage 
all in the noble cause.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards responded when called
upon, and expressed herself as being very much
interested in this great question.  Did not see
why we should not have the franchise.  The
ladies should be well posted in politics, and able
to hold many public positions as well as men,
and therefore wished to encourage her co-lobor-
ers to regain their votes if possible.
	President E. Y. Stanford was nominated as a
Delegate to attend the Convention held in Salt
Lake City April 9th.  For a short time President
E. Y. Stanford spoke by request.  "Woman has
charge of the rising generation, and for this
reason she should feel interested in the question
of Woman Suffrage and everything that tends to
enlightenment.  Woman's opinions and rights
should be respected; especially, when considered
that it is to benefit the human race, not only in
government, but in every place where her influence
extends, and she should have the largest liberty
to gain intelligence, and to exercise it in promot,
ing the greatest good."  The Association ad-
journed for one month.  Prayer by the chaplain-
Mrs. Sarah Richards.
 			ELLEN PINGREE, Secretary.

	The monthly meeting of the Woman Suffrage
Association of Ogden was held in the County
Court House, May 2d, '89.
	The Association was called to order by Presi-
dent E. Y. Stanford.  Prayer by the chaplain E.
H. Nye, "Glee" by the choir under the leadership 
of Prof. L. D. Edwards.
	An address by Mrs. L. D. Alder, which con-
tained many excellent ideas, relating to the posi-
tion of woman political societies, and was so in-
teresting, that the strictest attention was de-
manded.  The lady came from Salt Lake by in-
vitation of the officers of the Association, and
her address was very much appreciated.
	Mrs. Maria L. Newman of Ogden also made an
excellent address which proved to be instructive
as well as entertaining.
	A delightful song was rendered in sweetest
style by Flora Purdy, accompanied by Prof. L. D.
Edwards.
	Mr. Joseph Stanford kindly consented to speak
for a short time.  He gave many excellent views
upon woman's privileges, encouraged the ladies to
strive to regain their rights.  Referred to Glad-
stone who always counseled with his companion,
and to Lord Palmeston whose wife was a constant
help to him acting as his secretary.  Made happy
allusions to the respect in which great men had
held their wives and taken their advice and sug-
gestions in their high career as statesmen and


politicans, conversing with them upon all subjects
relative to politics and government, as well as
other matters of importance.  There are many
positions in public life to which women are
admirably adapted.  School teaching and the
training of the young is a legitimate field for
women to occupy.  And for which women are more
especially adapted.
	Many other things were referred to by the
speaker that were excellent.  A vote of thanks
was given to all who assisted in carrying out the 
programme.  The names of new members were
read by the secretary.  Glee by the choir; meet-
ing  adjourned for one month.  Prayer by the 
chaplain.  
				ELLEN PINGREE, Secretary.


