NOTES AND NEWS.
	
	The Queen of Greece is a clever painter.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton will spend the 
summer at Hampstead, Long Island, N. Y. 
	Julia Ward Howe's 70th birthday will be 
celebrated May, 27, in Boston. 
	Mrs. Olive Wright, of Colorado, has patented
a filter, which renders hard water soft, and
may be used on any kitchen stove.
	The Woman's News is now published in its 
own office, printed on its own type, managed,
controlled, and all the work done by women. 
	Mrs. Clara B. Colby and Mrs. Laura De
Force Gordon are in Washington Territory,
at work for woman suffrage.
	The Pennsylvania Senate has voted an ap-
propriation of $10,000 to the Woman's Hospi-
tal. 
	On April 25, the Woman's Press Associa-
tion of Washington, paid their respects to Mrs.
Harrison. 
	The Women's Penny Paper, of London, has
begun the publication of a serial story by 
Mabel Collins, dealing with a mother's right to 
her child, and entitled "A Mother's freedom:"
	Two hundred girls are now being educated
in the medical schools of India, and Madras

[Column 2]
has already supplied six fully qualified lady 
doctors for the northern part of the country.
	Among the literary women who favor crema-
tion are Grace Greenwood, Ella Wheeler
Wilcox, Marietta Holley (Josiah Allen's wife)
Rose Terry Cooke, Kate Field, Cella Thaxter'
and Rebecca Harding Davis.
	Governor Hovey, of Indiana, recently ap-
proved of the Commissions of Willametta 
Mench, Minnie Young, Minnie Mobley and 
Anna Gilgour as Notaries Public for the town 
of Columbus, Ind. 
	At Galesburg, Ill., the Council meeting was 
attended by women, ministers and teachers of 
the public schools.  Petitions were presented 
by Knox and Lombard Colleges, and speeches
were made by women urging the Council not 
to grant dramshop licenses. 
	The first annual meeting of the Association
for the Advancement of Household Science
was held in the Chapel of Pardue Univer-
sity, LaFayette, Indiana, on the evenings of 
May 14th and 15th, 1889.  The object of the 
Association is to consider advanced methods of 
housekeeping and the improvement of the
home.
	The petition of John G. Whittier, Mary A. 
Livermore, William Lloyd Garrison, Julia 
Ward Howe, Lucy Stone, Henry B. Black-
well and others for the incorporation of the 
Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Association,
was admitted in the Massachusetts Legisla-
ture, May 1, under a suspension of the rules 
moved by Mr. McCall of Winchester. 
	Women are taught that their highest duty 
is to marry and bear children, yet laws are
framed to punish its fulfillment as a crime.
The minister of railways in Belgium has just 
issued an edict that all married women who 
are mothers, even if their children are grown
up, shall resign their posts in the telegraph
service.—Woman's Standard.
	Miss A. A. Crisp, a professional nurse, in 
charge of a hospital in New Zealand, and who 
had received royal decorations for her service 
in South Africa, Egypt and Turkey, was 
married recently to one of the doctors of the 
hospital, and wore as her wedding costume the 
uniform of her profession.  Nineteen nurses
also in uniform were her bridesmaids. 
	The New England Women's Press Associa-
tion held a business meeting last Wednesday at 
the Parker House, in Boston, the president,
Mrs. Sallie Joy White, in the chair.  Mrs. M.
Elizabeth Green, editor of the Quincy (Mass.)
Patriot, and Miss Louise Imogen Guiney, were 
elected members.  A "high tea" will be served 
to members and friends at the Parker House 
at the next meeting.
	It is late to mention the fact, but one so note-
worthy should not be forgotten, that it was a 
notable gathering of women which took place
in New York in March, when sixty delegates 
representing various women's clubs throughout 
the country, responded to the invitation of 
"Sorosis" to meet with it and form a Confedera-
tion of Woman's Clubs.  Mrs. May Wright 
Sewall spoke on the occasion, of the National 
Council of Women.  There is something 
significant in the present tendency of progres-
sive women, to draw closer together, through 
co-operative work and sympathy unions,
unions within unions, a concentrated yet ever 
widening circle of circles, which can scarcely 
fail to be a strong bulwark of civilization, and 
at the same time moving onward, like a solid 
phalanx, which few obsticles can withstand.—
Woman's News.


