	    SALT LAKE STAKE PRIMARX.
	The quarterly conference of the Primary
Associations of the Salt Lake Stake, was held
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Saturday,
March 16, 1889 at 10 a.m., Counselor Camilla
Cobb presiding. Meeting opened by singing
"Gladly meeting." Prayer by Sister E. How-
ard. Singing, "Good morning," by Mr. Evan
Stephens Primary class; minutes of previous
conference were read and accepted. Recita-
tion by a little boy from the 3d, Ward;
dialogue, two girls from the same ward.
Roscoe. Eardley sang a song. Reports were
then read from the Primaries of the 3,4,5, and
7th wards. Duett by two girls of the 5th,
ward, "Buy my flowers." Reports read from
the 8,10. and 14th wards. Recitation by a
little girl from the 9th ward. "The children
are praying for me," was sung by little Miss
Bowring; reports from the 16,17,20, and 21st
wards.
	Sister E. B. Wells addressed the children;
regretted there were not more boys attending
our primary. Told the children about the Or-
phan Asylum, and that they should be mindful
every day of their blessings in Zion; urged
them to cultivate Faith; related a story illus-
trating her remarks upon the principle of
Faith. Also ureged them to be obedient to 
their parents and to those who preside in their
associations.
	A little boy of the 8th ward sang a song,
also annie Sorenson of the 9th ward sang, and
two girls of the 10, ward sang "Why did they
dig mamma's grave so deep." Reports read
from the 13,15, and Sugar House wards. Song
by a little girl of the 12th ward.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young praised the child-
ren's exercises; wished the Presidents to hand
in the names and ages of the children who
took part in the conference. Asked the child-
ren to repeat after her in chorus:
	'Tis education forms the common mind,
	Just as the twig is bent, the tree's inclined.
Johnnie Merrill and Master Fox each recited
[Column 2]
very nicely. A dialogue was given by five
girls of the 16th ward. Questions were an-
swered by four girls and two boys of the 17th
ward. More reports were read making nineteen
in all. Essay, Master Woodruff of the 21st
ward. Willie Stevens and a little girl of
Union Ward each recited.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze spoke a few minutes
to the children on order and "The word of
Wisdom." Sister E. Howard made a few in-
teresting remarks. Counselor Camilla Cobb
spoke a few words, and adjourned the con-
ference for three months; singing "Good
night," prayer by Counselor Lydia Ann Wells.
					BESSIE DEAN Sec.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Our Relief Society conference was held
March 22d, at the Mess Hall commencing at
1 p. m., President S. M. Pomeroy presiding,
President C. I. Robson and counselors and
other brethren were present; opened by sing-
ing and prayer. President S. M, Pomeroy,
desired the faith and prayes of the brethren
and sisters present, to sustain her in her new
position, presumed we should all miss the kind
face of our former President Sister E. S. Mc-
Donald and none more than herself; prayed
that our hearts might be unitedly raised in
prayer to God, for blessings upon this con
ference, that all who may speak may be
filled with His Spirit.
	Roll of officers called showing a full at-
tendance; minutes of previous conference read
and approyed. Presidents of the several
branches gave verbal reports, showing a
marked improvement among the sisters, espec-
ially in the attendance of meetings. Sister
E.G. McDonald having arrived by the Mesa
stage, was listened to with pleasure while she
addressed the meeting a short time: was happy
to be in our midst again; had enjoyed her
visit while away. Spoke briefly concerning
the prospects of our people who had gathered
to Mexico; thought their hardest trials were
over and their prospects were good for the
future. Thought the authorities there were
friends to our people; they had enver shed the
blood of the Saints or persecuted them; they
were kindly disposed, thought that would be a
place of refuge for the Saints. Spoke of the
principle of Charity. "Our trials cause us to
draw near unto the Lord; we should avoid the
spirit of selfishness, in giving and aiding each
other we are blessed." Spoke of the influence
of the evil one, who is continually laying
snares to entrap those who is continually laying
snares to entrap those who are the hightest, or
who are doing the most good.
	S. M. Pomeroy was pleased Sister McDonald
was with us but regretted it would be for such
a short time. Was gratified with the reports
from the different branches, they were cer-
tainly encouraging. Had visited in company
with her counselors the several places in the
Stake, and cold testify to the truth of the
reports. Spoke of the Indian mission, where
some of our sisters are laboring so faithfully
to benefit and redeem them from their degraded
state; "we should assist them with our faith and
prayers, and not stop there, but donate liberally
to the support of these faithful brethren and
sisters. We should exercise the spirit of
Charity towards each other, avoid slander,
and the spirit of ridicule, which is pernicious
in its effects, and is explained by a famous
German critic as the wit of an ignorant or
stupid person; it is indulged in thoughtlessly
by some just for fun, but somebody is always
hurt." She desired to honor the position she
was placed in, and work in harmony with
the authority of the Stake. The statistical
and financial reports were read and the Relief
society officers sustained.
	Counselor Henry Rogers was glad to see the
growth of the Society; felt that the kingdom
of God was growing; referred to the duties of
[Column 3]
a Teacher. It is no trifling thing to be an
officer in these organizations; let each one re-
alize the responsibility resting upon them and
at the same time be joyful."
	President Charles Robson had listened with
pleasure to the remarks that had been made:
had yet to attend a meeting of the Latter-day
Saints where there was not good instructions;
“it is left with us to carry them out. It is our
duty to live by every word of God unto us.
Whilst the wife is given as an helpmeet, if she
exercises her powers rightfully, she becomes
the larger half.” Felt to bless the sisters and
honor them in their calling as a Relief Society.
Made many more interesting remarks which
were timely and to the point.
	Counselor Sarah Russell spoke briefly: felt
that life was too short to indulge in ill-feelings
towards each other.  "We can assist others in
many ways with words of sympathy and love.”
	Brother Charles Allen spoke a short time, in
a very interesting and encouraging manner;
felt the sisters were doing a good work among
the Saints; and gaye many good instructions to
mothers in Israel. Brother A. F. Stewart and
Oscar Stewart each bore testimony of the
good work being done by the sisters.
	Sister E. G. McDonald wished to make a
few remarks in regard to out new President;
urged the sisters rtq sustain her in her posi- 
tion; bore testimony to her faithfulness as
president of the Teachers and Stake secretary.
The Teachers had heen faithful in their duties,
and the success of the Society was mainly due
to their faithfulness. Their meetings were
among the best she had attended; also bore
testimony to the faithfulness and diligence of
her former counselor Sisters E. Morris and
Sarah Russell, felt this was a duty she owed
them. Thanked the sisters for the faith and
confidence they had eyer shown her.
	President S.M. Pomeroy made closing re-
marks. Felt to thank Sister McDonald for
her kindly interest in her behalf. Felt desir-
ous of doing her duty regardless of fear or
criticism. Thanked the brethren for their
good instructions in regard to our duties, felt
it obligatory (upon us to treasure them up and
put them in practice in our lives.
	Sister Addie Passie was apppointed repre-
sent the Maricopa Stake Relief Society at the
conference to be held in Salt Lake City in
April. The President also recommended the
sisters of the Stake to subscribe for the EX-
PONENT. Conference adjourned for three
months. Singing. Benediction by H. Rogers.
			SUSAN WILCOX, Secretary.


Miss Mary A. Brigham, of Brooklyn, the
new president of Mount Holyoke Seminary
and College, is an alumna of that institution,
and a native of Westboro', Mass. She has
taught at Mount Holyoke and at Ingham Uni-
versity, Leroy, N. Y., besides in Brooklyn, and
has been offered a professorship at Smith
College and the presidency of Wellesley.
	Cases of infection that could be accounted
for in no other way, have been explained by
the fingers as a vehicle.  In handling money,
especially of paper, door knobs, banisters, car
straps, and a hundred things that every one
must frequently touch, there are chances in-
numerable of picking up germs of typhoid,
scarlatina, diphtheria, smallpox, &c. Yet
some persons actually put such things in their
mouths, if not too large! Before eating, or
touching that which is to be eaten, the hands
should be immediately  and scrupulously
washed. We hear much about general clean-
linness as "next to godliness." It may be
added that here, in particular, it is also ahead
of health and safety. The Jews made no mis-
take in that "except they washed they ate not."
It was a sanitary ordinance as well as an ordi-
nance of decency.			Sanitary Era.


