NELLIE'S CHILD 
We have brought one more dear Jennie,
	To share your quiet rest;
A habe, whose lips but yesterday 
	Were warm on its mother's breast.

But lo! the world's grey reaper,
	In the silent midnight came 
And folded the babe in his mantle;
	And tenderly breathed her name,

To the ever watchful angels,
	As one too fair and sweet,
To battle with earth's temptations,
	Too fragile its storms to meet.

So he hushed her to rest on his bosom,
	And folded the small white hands,
And kissed her lips, as her spirit passed 
	To the waiting angel bands.

Oh! Weep for the mother's anguish,
	Weep, weep, for the father's pain;
As he laid the beautiful lifeless clay, 
	In her outstreched arms again. 
		
For the sounds of that sobbing midnight,
	Though years may come and go,
Will never pass from that darkened home,
	Or the hearts that loved her so. 

No pearl in its case of velvet,
	No flower, just snatched away 
From the parent vine, was ever so fair,
	As the babe we mourn to-day.

So we brought her to you, dear Jennie,
	To the silent city that lies 
Out under the sunlit heavens,
	Out under the starry skies.
		
With its still white stones, like fingers,
	Pointing ever one untrod way,
Pointing up, through the western shadows.
	Pointing up, through the dawn-light grey.

Where, under the arch of the rainbow,
	And the pitiful falling rain,
We laid you to rest from labor,
	We hid you away from pain.

When we covered you up with blessings 
	For the deeds that your hands had done,
And hallowed your last sweet slumber,
	With the love that your life had won. 

And twice, since we brought you hither,
	With sorrowful hearts and sore,
We have come to thy sacred dwelling,
	And stood by an open door.

Once with your own loved child, and now,
	With the babe of your eldest born;
And the doors are closed to be ope'd no more,
	Till the last great, glorious morn.

So we leave them with you, dear Jennie,
	In the silent city, that lies
Out under the starry heavens,
	Out under the sunlit skies,

With the still white fingers pointing,
	From the dust that our teet hath trod,
To the broad blue path that leadeth,
	To the home of your rest with God.
								MILLICENT.
Zenos, A. I. April, 1889.


[Column 1]
THE VOW OF WASHINGTON.
	The following is a copy of Whittier's poem, read at the 
Washington Centennial Celebration in New York on
[Column 2]
﻿Tuesday last by Clarence M. Bowen, Secretary of the
Centennial Committee:

	The sword was sheathed; in April's sun 
	Lay green the fields by freedom won;
And severed sections, weary of debates,
Joined hands at last and were United States.

	O city sitting by the sea !
	How proud the day that dawned on thee,
When the new era, long desired, began,
And, in its need, the hour had found the man! 

	One thought the cannon salvos spoke;
	The resonant bell-tower's vibrant stroke,
The voiceful streets, the plaudit-echoing halls,
And prayer and hymn borne heavenward from 
		St. Paul's!

	How felt the land in every part 
	The strong throb of a nation's heart,
As its great leader gave, with reverent awe,
His pledge to Union, Liberty and Law! 

	That pledge the heavens above him heard,
	That vow the sleep of centuries stirred;
In world-wide wonder listening people bent,
Their gaze on Freedom's great experiment.

	Could it succeed ? Of honor sold 
	And hopes deceived all history told.
Above the wrecks that strewed the mournful past,
Was the long dream of ages true at last? 

	Thank God! the people's choice was just,
	The one man equal to his trust,
Wise beyond lore, and without weakness good,
Calm in the strength of flawless rectitude !

	His rule of justice, order, peace,
	Made possible the world's release;
Taught prince and serf that power is but a trust,
And rule, alone, which serves the ruled, is just;

	That Freedom generous is, but strong 
	In hate of fraud and selfish wrong,
Pretense that turns her holy truths to lies 
And lawless license masking in her guise. 
 
	Land of his love ! with one glad voice 
	Let thy great sisterhood rejoice;
A century's suns o'er thee have risen and set,
And, God be praised, we are one nation yet.

	And still, we trust, the years to be 
	Shall prove his hope was destiny.
Leaving our flag with all its added stars
Unrent by faction and unstained by wars.
 
	Lo ! where with patient toil he nursed 
	And trained the new-set plant at first,
The widening branches of a stately tree,
Stretch from the sunrise to the sunset sea.
 
	Aud in its broad and sheltering shade,
	Sitting with none to make afraid,
Were we now silent, through each mighty limb,
The winds of heaven would sing the praise of him.

	Our first and best!—his ashes lie
	Beneath his own Virginian sky.
Forgive, forget, O true and just and brave,
The storm that swept above thy sacred grave ! 

	For, ever in the awful strife 
	And dark hours of the nation's life;
Through the fierce tumult pierced his warning word,
Their father's voice his erring children heard ! 

	The change for which he prayed and sought
	In that sharp agony was wrought;
No partial interest draws its alien line 
'Twixt North and South; the cypress and the pine !

	One people now, all doubt beyond,
	His name shall be our Union bond;
We lift our hands to Heaven, and here and now,
Take on our lips the old Centennial vow.
[Column 3]
	For rule and trust must needs be ours;
	Chooser and chosen both are powers
Equal in service as in rights; the claim
Of Duty rests on each and all the same.

	Then let the sovereign millions where
	Our banner floats in sun and air,
From the warm palm lands to Alaska's cold,
Repeat with us the pledge a century old !

Oak Knoll, Danvers, Mass.


