A SAD BEREAVEMENT.
	Only a few months ago we published the death
of the wife of Heber M. Wells, and now it be-


comes again our painful duty to record the sad
death of his little son, Manning Beatie Wells, who
departed this life May, 10th, at half past five p m.
His death was peaceful and wholly free from pain,
sinking as though falling into a profound slumber,
the immediate cause being partial paralysis of the
throat.  He was, no doubt, ushered into the pre-
sence of angels," who rejoiced at his coming, 
though unseen to those who waited by his bedside
with sobs and moans.
	For the father, in his lonliness, so suddenly be-
reft, the most intense sympathy is felt.  But he
has the consolation of the promises of the Gospel
to trust in, and two other little children who need
his loving care and constant attention.

	They are not lost!  They are within the door
		That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing--
	With angels bright--and loved ones gone before,
	In the Redeemer's presence evermore, 
		And God himself, their Lord, and Judge and
			King."

	Manning was born in this City August, 1884,
and was a most sensitive and interesting child.
Fondly attached to his mother, he seems to have 
longed for her ever since her death in October
last.  His last words to his agonized father who
sat by his dying bed, breathed more than whis-
pered, were, "Papa, I'm going home!" strikingly
significant and prophetic were those parting
words.  Who shall say that this little child had
not an intuition of the joy of meeting his be-
loved mother; and that just upon the verge of
that "better land," he paused to breathe this
farewell to the beloved one he was leaving 
behind.

	"Better than earthly presence, e'en the dearest,
		Is the great blessing that our partings bring;
	For in the loneliest moments, God is nearest, 
		And from our sorrows heavenly comforts spring, 
			If God be with us."

	The funeral was held at the residence on Sun-
day, May 12, at 12 m., Bishop O. F. Whitney pre-
siding.  The speakers were Bishop Whitney,
Elder John Nicholson, and Apostle H. J. Grant.
The singing was almost heavenly; and the casket
in which lay the form of the little one was literally
buried with flowers, tokens of love from those 
who mourned.  At the grave the scene was pitiful
but all that could be done, to comfort the father
and relatives, seemed to have been accomplished.
The grave was dedicated by Apostle H. J. Grant,
and the choir sang "Rest on the hillside."


