KISSING. 	
	To kiss according to Webster means "to
salute with the lips.” And the pleasure derived
there from depends entirely upon the relation-
ship, existing between the kisser and the kissed.
If the souls meet, a thrill of joy and pleasure
permeates the whole system; but if the object
kissed be not a human being, the effect can
not possibly be the same, though the impres-
sion produced may be just as powerful,—forin-
stance when the Idolater kisses his Idol, a re-
ligious sensation comes over him—all his better
nature is aroused, and the baser and more
selfish part of his composition remains in the
back ground. He lives only for his God, and
at that moment, any or every earthly posses-
sion would be sacrificed to further any purpose
believed to be desired by the Idol he worships.
While in such moods the Priests of the dark
ages, used to exert their influence, to lead the
people, and gained control of the earth, so great
their exertions, and so patient their toil.
	When a fond mother takes her babe upon
her knee, she feels all the enrapture of mater-
nal affection, as she presses kiss after kiss upon
the tiny forehead of the little one who nestles
close to the one person, in all the world, whom
it loves. Such pure unadulterated love exists
nowhere else in all humanity. —
	Though the next is the expression (through
the lips) of that deep and all powerful love,
which a noble man bears toward a noble wo-
man, and without which no woman is safe in
becoming a wife—Wicked and unprincipled
men are incapable of such a deep feeling love,
and what the soul does not feel the lips can not
portray.
	Again there is the kiss of deceit, such as
a false friend would administer, the same that
Judas gave his Master in the betrayal—and
the sympathetic kiss given by a parent to a
suffering child, or a living friend to one who
has passed to the other side. In such kisses
the heart speaks, there is love and tenderness
iu the touch of the lips, and sometimes great
relief is realized from penned up grief by
bringing tears to the eyes, which have before
refused to be moistened.
	But if the lips are the most sensitive, the
most impressive, and the most delicately con-
structed organs in the whole body;—how easily
disease can be communicated from the sick or
dead, even from heir-looms, to the devoted
friend or relative, who tries to sooth pain, or
whose reverence of God and Ancestors
prompts him to press his lips to the frequently
handled “Holy Bible” or to any of the many
articles left him by his fore fathers.
	After the same manner can the most dreaded
disease, known to mortal man, be transmitted
from father to son, and from sister to sister;
when it was designed by the Almighty that
only those who should abuse their natural gifts
should suffer from so great a punishment. X.


