THE POET’S SEASON.
	It has been said, and truly, that Spring is
the poet’s season.  There is a peculiar fresh-
ness in the earth, and in the air, which pene-
trates, as it were, to the very centre of all in-
animate things, and causes the blades of grass
to shoot upward, the leaf and the floweret to
burst forth.  The soul, which is higher than
any of these forms of beauty, must in conform-
ity with creative forces be in sympathy with
all these, especially the soul of the poet, that is
ever more or less en rapport with nature.  The
poet feels this beauty without, this overflowing
of nature’s fountains, and the same impulse is
intensified in him, because the higher order of
his creation demands expression.  In the
Spring the birds carol their sweetest music,
warble forth their most charming melodies;
they sing for joy that new life has sprung up.
The poet Thomson, in his "Season," beseeches
the birds for melody:

	"Lend me your song, ye nightingales!  Oh pour
	The mazy running soul of melody 
	Into my varied verse, while I deduce
	From the first note the hollow cuckoo sings
	The symphony of Spring."

	There is so much music in Springtime that it
is little wonder one tries to catch the inspira-
tion, and utilize some of the rich material to
embellish life in its sober work-a-day phases.

[Column 2]
How beautiful the power of the keenly sensi-
tive, gifted soul who can gather up the sun-
beams, the dewdrops, the music of wood and
glen, in flowing fountain or in song of birds,
and apply its essence and its sweetness to rhyme
and rhythm, and thus carry the pleasures of
Spring into the homes of the people, who, while
they are employed in the various occupations
of life, can nevertheless enjoy the sentiments
others have expressed, and in unison with the
poet exclaim, “These are my own thoughts and
aspirations.” As the chemist extracts and
condenses the strength of the elements of sub-
stances, and uses them for the various purposes
to which they are necessary for man, in food
and medicine, so the poet adds to the richness
of the inner life, the metaphysical, elevating its
tone and giving grace and beauty to the mind
and heart.
	It is not alone the birds who feel the in-
fluence of Spring, but the young lambs skip
and gambol, the calves frolic as though con-
scious of the delights of nature everywhere ap-
parent to man.  Indeed, all the greatest efforts
of nature seem to have culminated through in-
nate forces and assumed tangible forms, or to
have wakened after the long rest of Winter
into newness of life.  The affections are
stronger, too, or at least we so comprehend it,
at this season of bud and bloom, and Tennyson
tells us,in that oft quoted stanza from Locksley
Hall:

"In the Spring a fuller crimson comes upon the robin's
	breast;
In the Spring the wanton lapwing gets himself another
	crest;
In the Spring a livelier iris changes on the burnish'd
	dove;
In the Spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to
	thoughts of love."

	All the pulses of nature are quickened and
the corresponding human pulses likewise, when
the body is in good condition.  Lowell says:

	"What we call nature, all outside ourselves,
	Is but our own conceit of what we see,
	Our own reaction upon what we feel—
	I find my own complexion everywhere."

	Coleridge has said, too:

		"We receive but what we give, 
And in our life alone doth nature live.
Ours is the wedding garment, ours the shroud."

	We might go on quoting the opinions of the
poets on this inexhaustible subject, which has
been so much talked of and still remains more
or less of a mystery, but suffice it to say, the
poet is an interpreter of the beautiful in nature,
but the scientist covers the entirety, for he an-
alyzes nature; and instead of giving us, as the
poet does, its music and beauty inspirationally,
he gives quality and utility, and styles himself
the true interpreter of nature’s forces. 
	Having skimmed over a little of the ground,
and dwelt upon birdnotes and melody, we next
consider the flowers in this connection. 	
	The flowers of Spring are as necessary to in-
spire the poet as are the songs of birds, or
the babble of brooks; and flowers are not only
one of the elements of poetry, but also symbols
of love.  Music, flowers, poetry and love are
very nearly related.  Who can faithfully de-
lineate the effect of flowers upon the senses.
They speak to us forcibly in a silent language
none fully understand, but all interpret in a
measure.  They feast the eye gratefully, and
their fragrance is exhilarating to every sense
we possess.  To enumerate the varieties and
delights of flowers would be impossible, we all
have some favorites, and we all comprehend
what a wilderness this earth would be without
them.  Mary Howitt expresses our own
thought, as true poets ever do, when she
says;

[Column 3]
	"God might have made the earth bring forth
	    Enough for great and small,
	The oak tree and the cedar tree,
	    Without a flower at all;	
	He might have made enough—enough
	    For every want of ours,
	For luxury, medicine and toil,
	    And yet have made no flowers."

	From time immemorial flowers have been
associated with love and tenderness, indeed,
tenderness is a part of love, for what we love
most we are most tender of.  Whatever appeals
to the heart fosters and strengthens the affec-
tions.  It is perhaps because the Spring is the
season when flowers are freshest, and birds sing
sweetest, and skies are bluest, that love is
strongest.  And one’s own heart is so full of
the tender passion that one wonders what the
birds say to each other, and what the flowers
think, and the poet sings of their secrets in
strains like these:

	"I wonder what the Clover thinks,	
	Intimate friend of Bob-o-links,	
	Lover of Daisies slim and white,
	Waltzer with Buttercups at night,

	Oh, who knows what the Clover thinks 
	No one unless the Bob-o-links!"

	Who would sing such a song except one in
love, yes, in love with nature?  And who that
has felt the divine sentiment in its purity and
intensity does not know that to be in love
glorifies all beauty?  In Eastern lands, where
love is said to be most intense, there flowers
abound and fruits are most luxuriant.  Flowers
in the fields and meadows feast the eye of the
traveler and inspire the pen of the poet, but
flowers in and about the home are indications
of beauty in life and character.  Their influ-
ence is always good and brightening.  The
lowliest cottage is handsomely adorned when
flowers are blooming round it, and graceful
vines trail o’er its doorways or its portico.
Even, those who pass by respect its inmates
more, and to the indwellers these simple adorn-
ments are often of more value in adding to
their happiness and enjoyment than the ele-
gancies and splendor of the rich.
	Nature herself is rich in embellishment, if
we will but dispose her varied gifts becom-
ingly.  At all seasons of the year the poet may
find himself in harmony with nature, but the
Spring has many advantages, many charms to
beguile the poet into musical, mazy rhythm.
Therefore we should be lenient with even the
humblest aspirant who sips at the perennial
fount of poesy, remembering that all are weak
compared to the great Author of that nature
to which we are indebted for our subjects
Undoubtedly Spring is the poet’s season, for it
is then God’s goodness strikes us most forcibly,
and the poet must drink freely from the pure
fount of knowledge, and  all intelligence
comes from Him, and He is love.
