SISTER MARTHA.
Dear, patient, suffering one, how very small;
Aught I can do to aid thee, if at all.
One glim'ring ray of light I may extend
To cheer thy loneliness, My Mother's Friend.

My mother loved thee, ere I knew the worth
Of friendship, such as her's and thine, on earth;
She's found that home, of peace and rest so sweet,
Where thou wilt soon, herself and others greet.

The lips of innocence thy name shall bear
Unto the Father; and in guileless prayer,
Tell Him how longingly thy soul doth wait,
Eager to enter the Eternal Gate.

And it shall be, when shades of evening fall,
Thine ears shall hear sweet Seraph voices call,
Bidding thee welcome to the heavenly place,
'Neath the approving smiles of God's dear face.

Peace, peace, oh weary heart! And from this hour,
Be lifted far above each darkening power.
Though things of earth, thine eyes no more behold,
Within thy soul, shall heavenly light unfold. 

The time no longer shall seem long to thee,
Henceforth thy spirit shall be glad and free;
And soon—yea, very soon shall waft away,
From night of gloom, into Celestial day.

To thy poor eyes, all sightless many a year,
How doubly glorious will that light appear;
Which shall reveal, in beauty, and in truth,
Faces and forms, which thou hast loved in youth.

How near, to me, that world of spirits seems!
How oft dear friends, from thence, return in dreams.
Oh, sister Martha, to my parents there,
Wilt thou, for me, a message kindly bear?

Tell them, I'm striving to be meek and pure,
Like them, life's crosses bravely to endure;
That I would tarry till my boys are men,
And help them learn God's holy will and then—

Well, I'll not state what I may then desire,
I'll only ask that God will me inspire,
That all my ways may be his ways for me;
Please tell them this my constant aim shall be.

A few more days for thee—then will be drawn
Aside the veil—from us thou wilt be gone;
Gone to thy loved ones, to thy sure reward;
Dear Sister Martha, Praise, oh, praise the Lord.
								LULA.
April 15th, 1889.


