			TO SISTER EMMA P. TOONE.

	Only the ones who are faithful in sorrow,
		Ever can gain the position you hold;
	Earth's richest mines could not purchase or borrow
		Thy fadeless honors, thy treasures untold.

	Here are thy children, and grand children round thee
		T call thee their savior, and say thou art blest;
	Here too, are ties which the Gospel hath found thee,
		Affection and friendship the purest and best.

	Better than all is the sweet, Holy Spirit,
		Which the great Father, alone, can bestow,
	Thou hast sought, thou hast welcomed, and right-
		fully bear it,
	Tenderly teaching thee which way to go.

	Thon hast been steadfast, and nothing could move
		thee;
		Through keenest sorrow thy portion hath been,
	Father hath chastened thee, only to prove thee,
		Cleansing thy soul from all darkness and sin.

	Patient and contrite, submissive and humble
		Doing for others, to bless and to cheer.
	Those who walk constantly thus, will not stumble;
		Dear faithful one, thou hast nothing to fear.

	Over thy sorrows, long buried, yet tearfully,
		Hearts full of sympathy lovingly yearn;
	E'en while we wish for this birthday most cheefully,
		Many a grateful and blessed return.

	If you are happy and honored in seeing,
		Each smiling face which this greeting extends,
	We, too, are honored and happy in being
		Worthy to stand as your sisters and friends.

	Still looking forth, for a brighter tomorrow,
		Which the grand future will shortly unfold—
	Only the ones who are faithful in sorrow,
		Ever can gain the position you hold.

	In the glad morn of the First Resurrection,
		In beauty's freshness, oh, glorious boon;
	Greeted by children, by friends and connections,
		'Mong the sanctified faithful will stand
			Sister Toone.

	The words of this poem express some of the sentiments
given by the brethren who spoke at the funeral, and will
meet a response from all hearts who have known the sub-
ject of this sketch.  Sister Toone was a native of Here-
fordshire, and embraced the Gospel in Warwickshire,
England, in December, 1849.
