EDITORIAL NOTES.
				———
	THE next number of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
June 1, will commence Volume 18, and after care-
ful consideration, we have decided to place this
little home publication within the reach of every
family in Zion, by reducing the price of the sub-
scription, instead of improving the appearance of
the paper.  The price for the coming volume will
be one dollar per year to all subscribers, except
to those living in this city whose paper is sent by
post and that will be 25 cents extra for postage
and also on all foreign papers.
	The regular meeting of the Woman Suffrage
Association of Utah was held in the Social hall
Thursday, May 9, 1889.  Owing to the indisposi-
tion of the President, Mrs. Caine, the chair was
occupied by Mrs. P. J. Riter. Miscellaneous
business having been completed, the following
programme was carried out: Mrs. M. Y. Dougall


read a sketch of Mrs. Mary A. Livermore which
contained a great many exemplary features; as
she was not only a model wife and housekeeper,
but also a lady of superior intellectual ability.
Hon. A. Miner favored the association with an in-
teresting speech upon the object and advancement
of the suffragists.  Miss Viola Pratt, in her
charming manner, favored the assemblage with a
solo entitled "Last Night," which was highly ap-
preciated.  The time having fully expired, a
speech from the Beaver Suffrage association, to be
read by Mrs. Nellie Little, was postponed until
the next meeting.  The association then adjourned
for one month.
	The ladies of Nephi met in the tabernacle at 2
p. m. May 11th, for the purpose of organizing a
Woman Suffrage association.  The meeting was
called to order by Mrs. Mary Pitchforth.  Mrs. 
Pitchforth was nominated chairman of the meet-
ing and Mrs. M. E. Teasdale secretary.  Singing by
the choir:  prayer by Mrs. S. A. Andrews. The
secretary then read the call.  The following
officers were elected:  President, Miss L. A.
Schofield; first vice-president, Mrs. E. B. Bryan; 
second vice-president, Mrs. M. E. Neff; third
vice-president, Mrs. M. A. Cazier; secretary, Miss
Lou Udall; corresponding secretary, Mrs. Annie
Atkin; treasurer, Mrs. L. A, Hartley; executive
board, chairman, Mrs. M. A. Grover; Mrs. M. E
Whitmore, Mrs. Mary Wright, Miss Emma
Adams, Mrs. Ella Jones, Mrs. S. E. Abbott, and
Mrs. Julia Paxman, members of the board.  The 
constitution was then read and adopted. Speeches
were made on woman suffrage by the follow-
ing named ladies and gentleman:  Miss L. A.
Schofield, Mrs. M. Pitchforth, Mr. F. W. Chappell,
Mr. W. H. Jones, Mr. J. W. Paxman and Mr.
Charles Sperry.  The Payson brass band
rendered sweet music at intervals.  The meeting
was well attended by the ladies of Nephi, and a
very pleasant and profitable time was spent.


[Column 1]
