[Vol1 | September 1914 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Home Ethics]

HOME ETHICS Lesson VIL The Complete Home.
The fundamental principle which promotes gentleness, love, and abiding content in the home is consideration for the feelings of others.
That principle and the great love prompting their actions cause parents to make the immense sacrifice which they are sometimes called upon to endure for the sake of their children.
We believe the training of a child begins in the conduct of its ancestors long before its own birth.
That is called heredity.
But we know that good parents do everything that lies in their power to give their children strong healthy bodies, good mentality . 11 and then to impart and to train the religious feelings.
It is one of the greatest of misfortunes to the child and one of the greatest omissions on the part of parents not to have religious training from infancy.
In childhood faith in Deity is naturally strong and belief in the wisdom and knowledge of parents is unbounded.
The impressions made in infancy and childhood are apt to remain forever.
No home life can be complete or perfect while there are defective members.
And toward the wayward ones there should be exercised enduring patience, abiding faith, and endless love.
Those qualities exercised in the home promote tranquility and often work wonders with erring ones.
That saying of the Prophet Joseph Smith, "The Glory of God is intelligence," is one of the most frequently quoted of his remarks.
That his followers take it literally is evidenced by the church schools which have been established, and also by the great desire to accumulate knowledge which is manifested by Church members generally.
To those who have not had the opportunities they desire, it is good to remember that a little knowledge gained every day makes great accumulations in time.
Parents have the advantage over their children in the wisdom that comes with the experience of the years.
Children in their turn often enjoy educational advantages in the schools, of which their parents were deprived.
Each should remember in his daily life and conduct his own advantages and the lesser advantages of the other.
Consideration for the feelings of others begets sympathy which enlarges the understanding.
There is nothing more beautiful than a home where love for each member prevails, and a determination on the part of each individual to do his duty every day and to attain to the highest within him.
That is ideal.
But there is sorrow, none the less real because it may be concealed, where a member is deficient.
How the instructions of our blessed Savior taught consecration of one's self to the ideal.
His golden rule is really the basic idea in ethics.
To practice the golden rule and the greatest commandment ofttimes means sacrifice of personal desire, but a spiritual uplift is the result.
When we really love, we desire to serve.
Our Heavenly Father knew that when he said, "If ye love me. keep my commandments." A teacher in early Utah days, noted for her good instructions, often repeated the axiom to keep her pupils reminded "Good manners spring from the heart." One reason parents so love their children is because of the loving service they give them during the years of helplessness and dependence.
Then it is only just to the children themselves
12 . that they be taught to render in turn loving service to their parents.
The following quotation seems appropriate here "It is: characteristic of human nature that our love for any object is increased by doing loving service for it.
If we do not train our children to the loving service to parents, and to each other, we sadly weaken the bonds of family unity.
This is doubtless one reason that we often find these bonds strongest, not among the rich, where plenty of servants take away the necessity and often the opportunity of doing kindly deeds to others, but in the home of moderate competence, where loving hands minister to each other's necessities." The Bible in the home should be a strong factor in the training of children.
Learning Scripture passages and chapters in childhood is sure to be a comfort in the years to come.
Everyone should be able to repeat without mental effort, giving chapter and verse, the Ten Commandments, the Lord's Prayer, the Sermon on the Mount, the Twenty-third Psalm, the Golden Rule, and the greatest commandment also many others, but; particularly those six.
The study of the Book of Mormon is fascinating to children when led by a good instructor.
The Faith Promoting Series inspires a belief in the happenings of our own times, and what might be our own experience.
By letting our minds dwell upon higher things we often are lifted out of our own petty difficulties and attain the habit of cheerfulness and composure.
Cheerfulness is often a matter of habit and may be attained by faith in the Divine power, and determination to conquer weakness and besetting sins. "It is easy enough to be cheerful.
When life goes by like a song, But the man worth while is the man who can smile When everything goes dead wrong." QUESTIONS. 1.
What great principle promotes the qualities so desirable in a home? 2.
When should parents begin the religious training of their children? 3.
What is the attitude of young children toward things Divine?
Toward their parents? 4.
How should we feel towards the weaknesses of relatives or friends? 5.
What do you consider the fundamental principle of ethics? 6.
What effect is produced by the giving of loving service? : . 13 7.
Name the parts of the Bible mentioned in the text that everyone should be able to repeat.
Where are they found?
What did Christ declare to be the greatest commandment?
Give chapter and verses. 9.
Relate some faith promoting experiences with which you are acquainted. 10.
What effect on our own lives has the contemplation of matters spiritual or highly moral?
September