[Vol1 | September 1914 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial War]

EDITORIAL.
WAR!
WAR!
AND WHY WAR?
The very air about us today is surcharged with war and rumors of war.
The writer of this little article was present in Rome three months ago and was appointed by Mrs.
Kate Walter Barrett to act as proxy for the United 'States delegate, Mrs.
Lucia Ames Mead, on the powerful and active International Peace Committee.
There sat in the elegant parlor of the leading hotel representatives from twenty nations, women of every civilized speech, and all were inspired only with the one thought peace how to bring about peace how to continue peace, and! ! how to educate children with the ideals of peace, so that war would be impossible on this earth!
This was the theme of that long day's meeting.
Hours were spent in giving reports of the work already done by this great body of peace women, and other hours were consumed in suggesting and acting upon future plans and activities.
This committee proposed to the International Executive Body that a cable should be sent to President Wilson, urging him to consider the claims of peace in dealing with the turbulent nation of Mexico, and it was seconded by the whole council with a rising vote.
Above all topics, the helplessness of the women, who are and who may be concerned in this struggle, was laid before the President of the United States, Mobile the same thought was emphasized in many sessions of the council.
War in the last days was predicted by the Savior, and his  words are repeated for us by three of his disciples Matthew, Mark and Luke.
There was to be "wars and rumors of wars." The Prophet Joseph foresaw this condition and portrayed it plainly.
But the hearts of women, looking upon their sons and their son's sons, have sunk in their bosoms, and they have sought to avert the dread time when this war should be poured out on every nation. 4 .
What is war?
General Sherman said, "War is hell." And that brief description fits the condition as no other could do.
War is madness.
Have you ever considered the condition of a man, a group of men, or a nation so filled with the spirit of anger and fury that they lose all control of their reason and become actually mad?
There is an old Greek saying, that "Whomsoever the gods would destroy they first make mad." And this terrible condition is as much to be deplored in a man as in a group of men, or in a nation.
For men are veritably mad when the spirit of blood-lust is upon them.
We hear occasionally of the "psychology of the mob," and the dread dangers that attend such a body of men.
What one man will do when he is so furiously angry that he becomes really "mad" is exactly what the group of men will do, moved by the same spirit, while the effect of that madness is multiplied by the number of madmen who comprise that group.
Were it not that some sane person or persons give such a crowd of infuriated human beasts a check, there might be no end to their fierce destruction.
Consider the Nephites in their final dissolution around the hill Cumorah.
The wife of the man who owned the hill some years ago, a Mrs.
Sampson, told the writer that bushel baskets of arrow heads were dug up in and around the hill.
A gruesome testimony to the truth of the Book of Mormon, and also to the fierce blood-lust which finally destroyed the Nephite nation.
Men nowadays discuss this quality of the spirit that sometimes takes hold of groups of men, and suggest ways of utilizing it in such places as theatres and other public assemblies to achieve success for their jubilee enterprises.
A man may be quite normal and peaceable in his whole habit of life, but put such a man in the midst of a crowd who are wildly clamoring about any one subject that influences and attracts men, and he is almost sure to be caught up by that spirit and at once he becomes a part of "the mob." He may repent of his silliness or his wickedness afterwards, but while he is a part of that seething mass of humanity, called "a mob;" when they are vitally moved or excited on any one subject, if his own mind be at all receptive, he is is sure to be swept off his feet and become a madman with the rest.
So with nations.
What this war in Europe may terminate in is, as the old Greeks said, "on the knees of the gods." Rather, let us say, the results are hidden in the bosom of eternity.
And yet, how helpless women feel in the face of such world-harrowing calamities.
We may have a child a son   preaching the gospel or a daughter studying music out.in  that vortex of war excitement now in the nations of Europe.
Our heart contracts, and we mothers know at once how . 6 mothers of those Servian, German, French and English soldiers feel at even the suggestion of war.
Men may fight ana kill, but women must suffer and weep.
What shall we do, we women of the chosen people of God?
I know what you will say   pray pray to the God of battles  that he will stay their hands yet a little while.
That our son, our daughter, may reach our home in safety and peace.
And what of the Servian's son and daughter?
Ah. women of the Church of Jesus Christ, let us pray for so many men and  women in the world have not learned how to pray that the God of peace will do what he has to do quickly, and bring his stubborn sons to their knees in every nation and amongst every kindred, tongue and people.  We can pray and wait and  trust.
That is the mission of woman.