	THE MEDICAL CLASSES OPENTO LADIES.
—The Northern Whig announces: That a
significant and important step has been re-
solved upon in the Queen's College. It ap-
pears that for some time the College author-
ities have had before them an application from
a number of ladies who desire to enter the
medical classes with a view to studying for
medical degrees. Hitherto these classes have
been closed against them, and consequently
women who desired such training had to go
elsewhere. After due deliberation, the appli-
cation of these ladies has been granted. A
meeting of the Medical Faculty of the College
held to consider the matter unanimously re-
solved upon acceding to the request. When 
the classes re-open, therefore, at the close of the
long vacation, we may expect to see mingling
with the usual medical students a new infusion
of the members of the softer sex, bent on initi-
ation into the mysteries of the healing art. By
and by, we have no doubt, we shall have in
Belfast, and over the province, a number of 
worthy compeers of such medical ladies as Dr.
Sophia Jex-Blake, Dr. Garret, Anderson, Dr. 
Edith Pechey, and numerous others who have
attained distinction in the profession. The ques-
tion of admission to the classes having been tested
and decided in favor of the applicants, we hear
that they will be joined in their studies next
session by other young ladies, some of whom
belong to well-kown Belfast families. In
coming to the decision which we have men-
tioned the College authorities have shown their
desire to keep abreast of the educational
necessities of the province. In other places
ladies who have gained the right to append
M. D. to their names have been most success-
ful in practice. Especially in the treatment of
the diseases of women and children, their
services have proved most acceptable in many
places, and just at present the requirements of
that splendid Society which owes its existence
to a noble daughter of our own province—the
Association for Supplying Female Medical
Aid to the Women of India, founded as we all
know, a few years since by the Marchioness of
Dufferin—demanded the services of as many
properly trained medical women as can be ob-
tained. The same is true of the various
Zenana Mission schemes. It is well known
that Hindoo women are not allowed to be 
treated by medical men, and, as the Mar-
chioness of Dufferin states in an excellent
article which appeared some years ago in the
Asiatic Quarterly Review, "They never do ex-
cept in the last extremity, when the doctor so
admitted to a Zenana enters with his head in a
bag, or remains outside the purdah, feeling his
patient's pulse, but unable to make any of the
necessary examinations.” Not to speak there-
fore, of the field which is undoubtedly opening
[column 2]
more and more at home to ladies trained to 
pursue medicine as a profession, the action of
our Belfast Queen's College will now open to
the women of the North of Ireland an avenue
at their own door by which they will be able to
qualify themselves for the service of their sex
in India in connection with such beneficent in-
stitutions as we have mentioned. The Medical
School of Belfast College has long since ob-
tained just celebrity, and we have no doubt
that this new departure which it has made
will commend itself to public approval and 
add to its usefulness and probably also to its
prestige. Other distinguished seats of learning
such as the University of Paris and the London
University, have opened the doors of their
medical class-rooms to women. In the Royal
University of Ireland they are eligible for the 
medical degrees and other honors, and, now
that a local demand has arisen for their ad-
mission into our Queen's College, the author-
ities were undoubtedly right in taking the
action to which we refer. We understand that
the Rev. Dr. Hamilton, the recently appointed 
president of the College, has manifested much
interest in the subject, and was strongly in
favor of the step which has been very properly 
taken.
				Englishwoman's Review.


