PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF,
arose and spoke as follows:
	I wish to say to this assembly of Latter-day Saints
that there are three vacancies in the Quorum of
the Twelve Apostles, in consequence of the or-
ganization of the First Presidency. We have felt
that it is time to fill that quorum now, this con-
ference, and the people should be prepared for
the presenting by the Twelve Apostles of such
names as they may feel by the Spirit of God to
be worthy and proper persons to receive this or-
dination or to occupy this position. These
Apostles are Prophets, Seers and Revelators. I
have confidence in them; I believe they have
power to present such things as would be in ac-
cordance with the will of God. They (the
Apostles) presented to me a list of names. I wish
here to say, and I want it understood, that neither
myself. President George Q. Cannon nor Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, who are my Counselors,
presented any of these names. We left it with the
Quorum of the Apostles. I became thoroughly
satisfied that they had upon that list such names
as would be acceptable unto the Lord. We look
those names and made it a matter of prayer, and
the Spirit of the Lord manifested unto me those
whom we should appoint. They have all been
accepted by the Quorum of the Apostles as well
as the Presidency of the Church. I have a rea-
son for making these remarks.
	After President Woodruff had taken his seat,
President Cannon resumed the presentation of the
authorities, submitting the names of the follow-
ing three brethren for appointment to the Apostle-
ship, to fill the three vacancies in the Quorum of
the Twelve before referred to:
	Mariner W. Merrill, Anton H. Lund, Abraham
H. Cannon.
	Counselors to the Twelve Apostles—John W.
Young and Daniel H. Wells.
	The Counselors in the First Presidency and the
Twelve Apostles, with their Counselors, as
Prophets, Seers, and Revelators.
	Patriarch to the Church: John Smith.
	First Seven Presidents of the Seventies: Henry
Herriman, Jacob Gates, Seymour B. Young, C. D.
Fjeldsted, John Morgan and B. H. Roberts.
	Wm. B. Preston as Presiding Bishop, with
Robert T. Burton as his Firstand John R. Winder
as his Second Counselor.
	Franklin D. Richards as Church Historian and
General Church Recorder.
	John Jaques as Assistant Church Historian and
General Church Recorder.
	As the Church Board of Education: Wilford
Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, George Q. Cannon,
Karl G. Maeser, Willard Young, George W.
Thatcher, Amos Howe, Anton H. Lund, James
Sharp.
	Joseph Don Carlos Young, as General Church
Architect.
	John Nicholson, as Clerk of the Conference.
	The vote upon each of the persons named for
the positions specified was unanimous.


