CASSIA STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Cassia Stake was held at Oakley,
Sept. 20, 1889.
	Pres. Louisa Haight presided; her
Counselors were also present with presidents
of the several branches: of the brethren, M.
Pickett counselor to Stake President; R.
Wilson, Patriarch, and others; also Pres. H.
D. Haight at afternoon session.
	The opening exercises were followed by
verbal reports of the several branches by res-
pective presidents, showing the members of
each to be feeling interested in their work and
doing as well as inconvenient circumstances
would admit.
	President Haight and her Counselors Sisters
Tuttle and Wilson, in turn addressed the
Conference giving much timely instruction;
were glad to hear of the interest taken by the
members, their duties were as urgent as those
of the officers; we may as well step down and
out if we do not take an interest in this work;
we must throw off timidity and put on the
armor of faith; must put away our work
when time comes for us to attend to some duty
in the Church, the Lord's work first our own
afterwards; must watch over our children
every day and teach principles of the Gospel.
	Sister Melissa Homer bore her testimony;
said she was grateful to our Heavenly Father
for having given the Gospel to the earth;
rejoiced to be numbered with His Saints; we
need to be taught every day that we may be
prepared for his coming.
	Sister Annie Bird spoke at some length ex-
horting the sisters to appreciate the day in
which they lived; to be diligent and improve
that they may have no wasted time to account
for; to seek after the pleasures of eternity for
those of this life are fleeting; to be worthy of
a future inheritance of which no power could
rob them.
	The afternoon session of the Conference was
turned into a testimony meeting.
	President H. D. Haight was the first to
address the meeting, spoke of his recent at-
tendance at the dedication of the Bear Lake
Stake house; of the strong testimonies of some
of the leading brethren there: This was a day
of sifting, the weak would fall by the way:
must do our duty to day, not wait for any set
time as a New Year etc., many who bear
faithful testimonies and have good desires,
trifle with the same and act contrary to them.
	Brother Robert Wilson, spoke at some
length; said the time was near when it would
be all the saints could do with a testimony
alive in their hearts to stand faithful; it would
take all their faith, and good works, to endure
what they would have to pass through; they
must follow in the footsteps of the servants of
God who had faced death for the Gospel's
sake; spoke of the happiness that would be
brought about by a perfect unity, such as made
Jesus and the Father one.

[Column 2]

	Sister Adelia Brim said "the still small
voice" within bore testimony to her of this
work.
	Brother J. G. Smith said like the Apostle
Paul, he was not ashamed of the Gospel and
spoke at length on its principles and beauties.
	Brother M. Pickett spoke of the revelation
given to the Prophet Joseph concerning the
sisters duties in expounding and teaching
principles of the Gospel; said if any were
needing financial help it was better if possible
to give them employment; assist them to help
themselves instead of making them dependent
objects of Charity. Testimonies were borne by
Sisters Tanner, McBride, Grant and Craner.
Also Bro. John L. Smith. Stake Authorities
of the Society were presented and sustained by
the Conference which, was then adjourned for
three months.
