WESTMINSTER PALACE.

	The location of this building, which no
longer exists, was opposite the present houses
of parliament. This palace was occupied by
the kings from Saxon times until Henry VIII
went to Whitehall. It was in this palace that
Edward the Confessor entertained William,
Duke of Normandy. That friendly visit was
the beginning of the proceedings which were
to terminate in the conquest of England.
Within those walls sat the house of commons
from 1547 to 1834. There was heard the
eloquence of Chatham,Fox,Grattan,Pitt,Burke,
and Canning—a remarkable galaxy of orators
truly! Westminster palace has been a great
theater of action. The infamous "star
chamber" was also in the building. The
chamber, built by Henry VIII, got its name
from the gilded stars on the ceiling. In that
place the prosecutor and judge were con-
founded. Every punishment, except death,
could be inflicted—imprisonment, pillory,
branding and whipping. It was in the star
chamber that William, Bishop of Lincoln, was
fined five thousand pounds for calling Laud
"The Great Leviathan." Here we have a clear
picture of the tyranny of the time. The bodies
of Earl Chatham and his son William Pitt lay
in state in this palace, as likewise that of Mrs.
Claypole, Cromwell's favorite daughter.
	The princes' chamber in the palace was
where the great Chatham died. The well
known picture of Copley has made the occa-
sion familiar to us. It was in the cellar of this
building that Guy Fawkes made his dastardly
attempt to blow up the structure, November 5,
1605. This edifice was burned October 16,
1834.
	We shall here refer to the clock tower of the
houses of parliament. It is probably unex-
celled in magnificence in the world, and occu-
pies nearly the same site as the old tower of
Edward I, which  contained the famous bell
called the "Old Tom." It is reported that a
man's life was once saved by the clock's strik-
ing thirteen times at midnight. The man was
endeavoring to prove an alibi, and it was by the
unusual circumstance of the clock's striking
thirteen that he was enabled to do so; for had
he committed the crime of which he was ac


cused he must have been far away from the
sound of the clock.

