RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The first Semi Annual Conference of the
Relief Society was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this City on Monday Oct. 7,
1889 commencing at ten a. m. Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young presiding. There was a good atten-
dance, the hall being pretty well filled. Meet-
ing opened by singing the hymn beginning

"Let us pray gladly pray" etc.

Prayer was offered by Mrs. S. M. Kimball
Continued with singing.

"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation"

	The secretary then presented the names of
the officers of the Central Board as follows
and they were unamimously sustained.
	President Zina D. H. Young,First Counselor
Jane S. Richards, Second Counselor Bathsheba
W. Smith, Secretary Sarah M. Kimball, Ass't.
Sec. Romania B. Pratt, Cor. Sec. Emmeline
B. Wells, Treasurer M. Isabella Horne.
	The names of the Stake Presidents of the
Relief Society were then read and they were
sustained by vote of the Conference.
	An address of welcome was made by the
President in which she invoked the blessing of
heaven upon all the congregation and greeted
them most cordially, gave words of encourage-
ment, and told them she felt herself surrounded
by Eves yea even the queens of this world and
believed that the works and labors which they
would perform, would entitle them to occupy
such positions. Welcomed one and all, rejoiced
in the Gospel and the blessings and privileges
it brought to the people, spoke eloquently of
the children of the Saints, wished the Stake
Presidents to represent the condition of the
Society in each Stake.
	Pres. Harriet A. Snow of Utah, Box
Elder, Stake said she had visited the most
remote parts of the Stake, and felt they were
as near to her heart as the others; at Park
Valley the meetings had been postponed on
account of the President's having to attend
upon the sick so much, but the sisters were as
zealous and as earnest there as in other places;
she enjoyed the meeting there very much.
Spoke of her interest in storing wheat, and
gave an excellent report of the sister's labors.
	Pres. Jane S. Richards, "I can say some good
things for Weber Co. The sisters enjoy a good
degree of the Holy Spirit. We, myself and
Counselors visit around the Stake regularly;
the local sisters rise up three and four at once
sometimes, they are so full of the spirit and of
testimony; we advise meeting together often
and that they read the address of Sister Zina,
which was given here at our last Conference
and published for our benefit, it contains the
instruction that is needed; read it over and it
will seem new and good, we advocate the
holding of Quarterly Conferences in the
various stakes, and of saving grain and the
duties of taking care of the sick and needy,
and charity to the erring, and lifting up those
who are weak and bowed down in spirit; in
doing this we shall be blest, and rejoice, and
our faith will be renewed."
	Pres. Susan Grant, Davis Stake, had good
Counselors that were a great help and blessing
to her, encouraged the sisters to come to meet-

[Column 2]

ing and partake of the good spirit, rejoiced in
the Gospel and felt happy in the performance
of duty from day to day.
	Pres. Mary John, Utah Stake, felt it a great
honor to be one of the Relief Society and
take an active part in this great work in her
humble way; had visited all the branches but
two, there were twenty-two in all; Sister Zina
had been with them in visiting, spoke of the
Woman's Exponent urging the sisters to take
it, and read it, that they might be posted upon
what was being done here and elsewhere, it
would do them good, felt happy in the duties
of her calling and wished to be faithful.
	Mrs. Anna Woodbury Counselor to Pres.
Ivins, St George Stake, spoke of the scattered
condition of the Relief Society and the long
distances the sisters must travel to visit each
branch organization; and the difficulties to be
encountered in going to the fartherest places.
Yet they made a practise of visiting all around
once a year. She felt to shed tears of joy
when young men would rise up and bear
testimony of the truth of the Latter-day work;
felt much interested in the young people,
spoke of the silk culture and what had been
accomplished by the sisters there; thought St.
George was the home of the mulberry, a
gentleman who had been accustomed to
countries where silk was an industry had re-
marked that the climate was specially adapted
to its culture, she and some other sisters had
perservered in the labor and had made some
money by sending the cocoons to Washington
Some of the sisters there had received
though they had only received 90cts. per lb.
nineteen dollars, that was something, and she
believed that success might yet result through
diligence and perseverance in the work.
	Sister Zina; made some remarks upon silk,
her belief as to its becoming a source of
revenue, and spoke of the great love she had
for the sisters, thought the angels were around
about us, and that those who had been our
associates in these labors heretofore might per-
haps meet with us; hoped we would have zeal ac-
cording to knowledge, thought the sisters
should take the EXPONENT and read it, and
interest themselves on the questions of the day,
and become familiar with the spirit of the times
and what was transpiring in the world,
	Dr. Pratt then read a part of the minutes of
the first organization of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo.
	Pres. Mary Pitchforth, Juab Stake, spoke
of the Relief Society organization and how
she had seen it in a vision many years ago,
and she realized the fulfillment of it to-day;
thought when the sisters were healed, as she
knew of many instances, where they had
been instantly healed, that God should have
the glory instead of the Doctor. Spoke kindly
of the teachers in their stake, and the dili-
gence and faith they manifested in visiting
every month even in the winter time to look after the
needy., Related a dream she had of Sister
Eliza she came to the house and wanted to go to
the meeting with her at home in Nephi after
some preliminaries before starting for the meet-
ing Sister Eliza had given her some instruct-
ions what to teach—first of all the judgments
of God; and mothers teach your children to
eat and drink only those things that will make
their bodies pure—and preserve them from
disease and evil influences, only the Lord can
hear our prayers and save us from the contam-
inating influences that will assuredly come.
	Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith felt almost as
if she could shout Hosanna she rejoiced in hear-
ing the words of Joseph the prophet that had
been read, felt blessed in the Society and in all
the meetings of the Saints; "take pains sisters
to search out the needy and the sick, we know
the prayer of faith will heal the sick, and we
will give our Father in heaven the glroy."
	Pres. Jane E. Walton, San Juan Stake had

[Column 3]

come 500 miles to attend the Conference said
her intention was when she went home to visit
the Mancos and Burnham wards, spoke of the
disadvantages under which the sisters labored
in that Stake because of the great distances to
be traversed to come together.
	Sister Kimball read from the Relief Society
record concerning the angels and said Sister
Zina's remarks on that subject had brought that
saying of the prophet's to her mind.
	Lula G. Richards read a poem written for
the occasion.

