EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Brother Graves of Provo, Supt. of Utah County
Silk Association, wants to hear of all those who
wish to go into the silk raising either in Utah or
adjacent.  He would like such persons as desire
to interest themselves practically in seri-culture

[Column 2]
﻿to communicate with him by writing. Address
Daniel Graves, Provo, Utah C. Utah.
	Mrs. M. E. Vanschooven of this City who has
been engaged in medical studies and practice for
some years past, and has become so well and
favorably known in that department, has gone
East to finish her studies in medicine and surgery
in order to graduate as a regular M. D. Mrs. Van-
schooven has been at college in Ann Arbor
previously for some time, but will now remain
permanently until she has finished a thorough
course of medical training in the college at Ann
Arbor, Michigan. She left the city in September
and will not return until June of next year. As
Mrs. Van has made herself quite helpful to the
people here she will be greatly missed by a 
wide circle of friends and patrons. Dr. Pratt will
have charge of Mrs. Vanschooven’s patients in
her absence. Her address is No. 6, Church Street,
Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young has received a very
pleasant letter recently from Wm. Cox Allen M.
D. a resident of Ft. Mc’Leod, Canada, in which
he expresses himself much pleased with the ac-
quaintance of Mr. and Mrs. Card and family and
were at the time of writing his guests; and he
also mentions his great regret in not meeting
Mrs. Young when she visited her daughter last
year and politely invites her to come again, when
he hopes to have the honor of her acquaintance
not only at the residence of her daughter, but to
entertain them all in his own home. Mrs. Zina Y.
Card speaks of Dr. Allen in a letter to her mother
as one of the honorable men of the earth, ex-
tremely kind to our people, and quite interested
in the principles of the Gospel; she describes him
as elderly with snow white hair and as resembl-
ing the late President Taylor. 
The inaugural meeting after the summer vaca-
tion of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 17th ward in this
city was held at the residence of Mrs. M. Y.
Dougall, Thursday evening September 19th, Mrs.
Julia C. Howe presiding. Mrs. Dougall’s large
and commodious parlors were well filled and the
exercises were of a most pleasing character. The
roll call was responded to with a motto or verse,
and after singing, prayer was offered by Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp. The exercises were so diversi-
fied and arranged as to be vastly entertaining
instead of a sameness as is frequently, almost un-
avoidably the case. There are some very talented
young ladies in this Association and they combine
their efforts on such occasions to make a success. 
Their President Mrs. Howe has taken unlimited
pains to develop the spiritual talent and gifts of
the girls over whom she has presided with un-
common tact and dignity. There were excellently
written articles on religious subjects and a corres-
pondence between two young girls Miss Nettie
Alder and Miss Lucy Smith essays Miss Ella
Dallas and other young ladies whose names are
not known to the writer, that were specially choice;
treating upon topics that few young women would
have selected much less been able to handle, yet
these girls discussed the grave questions in a very
able manner, and certainly deserve the commen-
dation of those who had the pleasure of listening.
A song or rather a hymn was rendered in a most 
effective style and particularly good voice by Miss
Viola Pratt there was telling instrumental music
on the piano by Miss Margie Dwyer, and later in
the evening a duet by Misses M. E. and W. C. Pratt.
Brief remarks were also made by several of the
invited visitors, Sister M. A. Freeze, Nellie Cole-
brook, Mary P. Young, Elder Junius F. Wells,
Elder Noel, W. B. Dougal and Sister B. W. 
Smith, R. B. Pratt, S. M. Kimball, E. B. Wells,
and Zina D. H. Young. The evening was in very
deed a most profitable one and many valuable
suggestions were made both by the exercises and
the speakers. After reading of programme sing-


ing and benediction, meeting adjourned and the
company were invited to partake of ice cream and
other refreshments.  There seemed nothing lack-
ing to render the evening wholly enjoyable to all
present.


