A HAPPY OCCASION.
	At the residence of Mrs. Libbie R. Pratt in the
17th, Ward, in this city there was a joyful meeting
of Sisters in the faith and fellowship, to celebrate
the birthday anniversary of the venerable mother
in Israel, Mrs. Sarah D. Rich, widow of the late
Apostle Charles C. Rich, who on that day reached
the age of 75 years.  Her daughter Sarah Jane
Miller was present and also Ben Rich from Ogden,
and Mrs. Pratt at whose residence the party met is
also a daughter of the respected lady in whose
honor they had convened together.
	There were present of the sisters whose names
are familiar in Zion for zeal in good works, Aunt
Presendia L. Kimball, and her sister Pres. Z. D. H.
Young, Sisters Mary Ann M. Pratt, Adelia Ann
B. Pratt, Marion R. Pratt, Margaret Merrill, Sarah
M. Young, Lydia Y. Merrill, Ella Merrill, also
Sisters Jane Taylor and Mary Ann Taylor and
others. Sisters Amanda G. Kimball, Harriet S
Kimball, Julia L. Raleigh, Nebecher, Brown,
Mary Bawton, Winegar and daughter. All
the sisters named were widows but two, and
twelve of these were residents of Nauvoo, and
a more self-reliant and honorable assemblage of
ladies could not have met together.  Sister
Rich has been a member of the Church 54 years
and is the last one of her father’s family remain-
ing.  She was recomended four times by different
persons to be the wife of Apostle Rich before they
saw each other, and became engaged to him by
correspondence.  She accepted the law of celestial
marriage and by mutual consent she and her
husband entered practically upon that principle
which will bring her great joy in the Kingdom of
heaven.
	The afternoon was spent in pleasant conversa-
tion and partaking of the bounties provided by
willing hands.
	The evening was devoted to religious exercises,
and the gifts and blessings of the gospel were
made manifest, that the Savior promised to all
who would receive His truthful message and walk
in the light of the everlasting gospel.
	Sister Rich had been failing in health
but the event revived her spirits and made her feel
that she was not forgotten.
	The EXPONENT adds congratulations, wishing
her days to be full of peace and joy and her en-
trance into the celestial kingdom glorious beyond
expression.


