THE OCTOBER CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference held during this month
commencing on Friday the 4th, inst. was one of
the most interesting and certainly one of the
largest that has ever convened. Thousands of
people from the several Stakes of Zion, came long
distances, hundreds of miles to attend, and Salt
Lake City and County also made a good represen-
tation in numbers. The people flocked daily
morning and evening in immense crowds. Look-
ing upon the assembled multitude one would not
be likely to conclude that “Mormonism” was
dying out as has been predicted by the outside
world.
	There has never been greater interest mani-
fested by the Latter-day Saints in the teaching
and instruction given, than at the late Conference.
Indeed the Saints seemed so desirous of spiritual
instruction that it was apparent upon their coun-
tenances, as they sat and listened to the words of
life and salvation poured out by the speakers who
addressed them from time to time. It was impos-
sible for all who wished to gain admittance, and
on Sunday afternoon an overflow meeting was
held in the Assembly Hall to accommodate some
of those,who were anxious to attend and also that
more of the Saints might have the privilege of
partaking the Sacrament.
	There were in attendance at this Conference,
Pres. Wilford Woodruff and Pres. George Q.
Cannon, of the First Presidency, and of the
Apostles Pres. Lorenzo Snow, Moses Thatcher,
F. M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, H. J. Grant, and
John W. Taylor, also Daniel H. Wells and John
W. Young. Apostle Franklin D. Richards who
has been for some time suffering from rheuma-
tism was only able to attend and fill his place
among the general authorities on Sunday and
not strong enough to address the congregation.
The morning session on Sunday was one of
special interest to the congregation of the Latter-
day Saints. After the opening exercises usual
in the regular services of the Church,
	PRESIDENT WOODRUFF
said: I will say to this assembly that we purpose
to attend to our businesss matters this morning.
There are quite a number of stakes from which
we have not yet received reports; hence we shall
not present a statistical statement to the Confer-
ence. We purpose this morning to present the
authorities of the Church. President Cannon will
submit them for your action.
	President George Q. Cannon then presented
the authorities to be voted upon by the general
assembly, as follows:
	Willford Woodruff, as Prophet, Seer and Reve-
lator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in all the world.
	George Q. Cannon, as First Counselor in the
First Presidency.

[Column 2]
	Joseph F. Smith, as Second Counselor in the
First Presidency.
	Lorenzo Snow, as President of the Twelve
Apostles.
	As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles
—Lorenzo Snow, Franklin D. Richards, Brigham
Young, Moses Thatcher, Francis M. Lyman, John
H. Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant and
John W. Taylor.
At this point

