NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Elizabeth Lyle Saxon has "proved up"
on her claim at Park, W. T.
	Another woman camposer has made her
mark—Mme. Helen Manletell, whose opera,
"Florence," has just been brought out with
fair success at the Royal Theatre, Stockholm
	The will of S. S. Cox, dated 1888, in a few
brief lines gives all the property he possessed
to his wife, who is made sole executrix and not
required to give bonds. A good example.
	Miss Pheobe Couzins, who has been a long
time out of the field on account of ill health,
seems likely, before many months are past, to
resume her labors for woman's ballot and the
temperance reform.
	"In Wyoming, after twenty years' experience
full woman suffrage is incorporated in the
State Constitution by a five-sixths majority, and
expressly guaranteed in the bill of rights by a
unanimous vote."
	Frances E. Willard celebrated her 50th
birthday September. 28. Her years have
been very useful ones. A great multitude of
people are grateful for her good work. They
will wish her, as we do, many happy returns of
the day.
	"Miss Helen Blackburn, who has edited the
Englishwoman's Review during the illness of its
late editor, the lamented Caroline A. Biggs,

[Column 2]

has now become permanent editor. Miss
Blackburn is the compiler of the English
"Women's Suffrage Calendar."
	Chief-Justice Greene, of Washington Terri-
tory, said several years ago: "The opponents
of woman suffrage in this Territory are found
allied with a solid phalanx of gamblers, pros-
titutes, pimps, and drunkard-makers—a
phalanx composed of all in each of those
classes who know the interest of the class and
vote according to it."
	The Chicago Inter-Ocean, has inaugurated a
Youth's Department. Mrs. Frances Hodgson
Burnett has been engaged to conduct and edit
the department, and the list of contributors
includes Miss Helen Gladstone, Margaret De-
land, Octave Thanet, Frances Courtney Baylor,
Harriet Prescott Spofford, Sarah Orne Jewett,
Ellen Olney Kirke, Tennyson, Edward Everett
Hale, Edmund Gosse, Prof. MaxMuller, Bret
Harte, and many other distinguished writers.
	"The Boston Traveller says that the four new
states will come into the Union at their best,
since they have become the heirs of the most
enlightened and most progressive legislation in
modern times. Hardly! The most progressive
legislation in modern times has given women
full political rights in the Isle of Man, has
made women county voters in England and
municipal voters in Great Britain and most of
its dependencies, also in our state of Kansas.
Nor have the new states even kept up to their
own highest mark, for the legislature of Da-
kota once granted the ballot to women, and
three times have the people of Washington by
their representatives acceded to the same. So
while the new states could not wholly ignore
the claim of women, they have sinned against
much light and fallen far below the  most pro-
gressive legislation."
	The fiftieth birthday of Miss Frances E.
Willard was celebrated on Sept. 28, by a large
gathering and public reception at the First
Methodist Church at Evanston, Ill. Addresses
were made by Mr. H. H. C. Miller, president
of the village; Rev. Joseph Cummings, D. D.,
prssident of Northwestern University; Rev. S.
F. Jones, D. D., pastor of the First Methodist
Church; Mrs. Elizabeth W. Andrew; who
spoke for the W. C. T. U., Mrs. Elizabeth B.
Harbert, on behalf of the Woman's Council;
and resolutions were offered by Hon. E. S.
Taylor. Miss Willard responded with her
usual grace. There was music by Misses
Catherine Waugh, Bessie Bragdon, and Ruth
Crandon, a reading by Mrs. Lida Hood Talbot,
and messages and letters of congratulation
from persons of note all over the country, in-
cluding the poet Whittier and ex-President
Hayes. Miss Willard has done a great work,
for which she is deservedly loved and honored.
The tributes on her birthday shew how wide
spread is the affection felt for her.		Ex.

Woman's Superiority.
	"Is there anything a man cannot do?" asks
an exchange. "We have never yet found a
man who could scold the children with his
mouth full of pins."


