HEPHZIBAH.
				IX.
	How beautiful in youth the  golden dreams,
		That love and fancy to our vision bring,
	With what bright radiance all the future gleams
		While we just taste at the Pierian Spring.

	To Hepsie her school days were full of joy-
ous anticipation as well as happiness in the
present, for she loved her studies and pored
over her books when others of the class were
totally absorbed in frivolity and fashion, and
in discussing social matters, for they were more
anxious to appear well and gain popularity
than to obtain knowledge to prepare them for
lives of future usefulness.  Hepsie was a long
way from home and did not often see any of
her own family except the sister with whom
she was staying; and this good sister was much
troubled in her mind over her because of her
inclination to wander in the fields and woods,
and give her time so much to solitude instead
of actual life of which she very well knew
there would be great need in the girl's future.
She was practical herself content to “settle
down,” and leave all matters of great moment
to her husband: which Hepsie noticed and
with her individuality could not altogether
countenance, and on one occasion when her
sister had reproved her mildly for not giving
more attention to her wardrobe which she sadly
neglected for her books, and also to take long
walks in the beech woods not far away, she in-
stead of replying to her sisters questioning of
how she spent her time, very impertinently
for one so much younger, began catechizing
Mrs. Severance.
	“Why do you spend all your time waiting
upon a man, who is not as ‘smart’ as you are,
and who never allows you to have any say at
all when he is talking, even about things you
know so much better than he does. ‘You’ll
settle down here I suppose all your life, and
never know nor realize what is going on in
the great world outside, while your husband
will attain a name and distinction among men
possibly, and his wife far more capable, shine
only in his light.”
	“How very wise you think yourself little
one, ‘replied the sister,’ having chosen my
husband out of all the world, I am quite con-
tent he should shine as my bright particular
star at least.”
	“But he is not willing you should shine that
is the point, equality of husband and wife
is the standard for me.”
	“What about St. Paul does he not say wives
should be submissive, and also that they should
learn of their husbands at home? “said Mrs. S.
in reply, “Mrs. Grovsener used to teach her
husband, how does that agree with St. Paul’s
ideas? in fact she told me a great deal about
women helping their husband’s, minister’s
wives and others, and she believed that women
could teach the Scriptures publicly, and that


the Savior thought more of women than minis-
ters do in our day, and that He paid them
more respect.”
	“Hepsie you are hardly old enough to ex-
pound the Scriptures tho’ you were under the 
tutelage of an authority on such matters like
Mrs. Deborah Grovsener.”
	“I am not exactly an oracle perhaps but my
ideas about women are very exalted ones and
I’m quite sure girls ought to have greater ad-
vantages than they do nowadays.”	
	“O, what would you like then pray tell,
you for instance expect to be a teacher, and
from what you have just been saying possibly
you intend to teach the Scriptures as well?”
	“I may, at any rate I believe in it, and I’m
sure mother can quote more Scripture from
memory, than any minister I have heard, they
have it written down in their sermons, but
mother knows the Bible by heart, and more
than that she is not very well satisfied with
our minister at home, she says his sermons
are dry and cold, she often speaks of the
prophecies of Isaiah and Jeremiah and be-
lieves many of them are yet to be fulfilled,
and wonders that the great divines of the day
don’t see these things as she does.”
	“Hepsie you astonish me, the other day you
wanted to convince me you knew all about
love, and now you are discussing religion and
the Scriptures, what next I wonder?”
	“Next, I suppose I must darn stockings, and
mend gloves, and so forth to get back into your
good graces for I can see you think me very
conceited, though you are too clever to say
so;—it is a good thing you don’t know all I
think, you would want to send me away to
some one who could modify me no doubt.”
	“Never mind Hepsie you will grow older
and wiser in time, and although you can’t go
to college, you can in another year at any
rate go to a Ladies Seminary and finish.”
	And so from time to time the two sisters
talked of the advantages and pursuits of men
and women.  Hannah was conservative and
thought her sister a born radical, and she tried
in her quiet way to make her understand how
impossible of fulfillment many of her theories
were.  But a great change was coming of
which either of the sisters had no fore-shadow-
ing, or premonition.  And Hepsie when she
had heard her mother talk of the Scriptures in
a half-prophetic way, little knew how her
mother’s mind was being wrought upon to ex-
amine the Bible herself, and how by careful
investigation and prayer she had arrived at the 
conclusion that the ministers of the day were
in error.  And here for the present we will 
leave the sisters and go back to the quiet 
village nestled among the hills described in our
opening chapter.

     There came to the good old town of B. on 
a gray November day in the year 1841, two
strangers, evidently travelers as their appear-
ance betokened, and they inquired at the Post
Office where they would be likely to get a hall
to preach in or if it would be possible to get
an opportunity to preach in the village
Church—the postmaster who by the bye was 
the leader of the choir, the singing master of 
the little village, began to wonder as neither
their manner nor their grammar, so to speak
savored of college bred ministers, and he be-
gan plying them, Yankee like with questions.
	“What denomination do you belong to
Methodists I presume, as you do not have the
appearance to me of either Baptists, Presby-
terians or Congregationalists?”		
	Before they had time to answer him he in-
formed them that the Church was occupied by
a Congregationalist and he did not believe
any methodist would be allowed to preach 
in it.
	“Well said one of the strangers, ‘we are not
methodists and we would like to see your

[Column 2]
minister and ask permission to preach in the
pulpit.  We have something to tell the
people, good tidings for them.”
	“What good tidings’ said Uncle Rufus as 
he was called throughout the village, ‘new
doctrine where did you come from and what is 
this you want to tell the people?”
	The strangers hesitated a little, but finally
replied, “the doctrines we preach are the same
as taught in the New Testament by the Savior
and his Apostles, and we have come without
purse or scrip more than a thousand miles to 
preach to the people and we want a place to 
speak in, and we hope to have an audience to
night here in this village.”
	“I’ll go with you to the Reverend Edward
M.— replied Uncle Rufus, “but its not much
use I’m afraid, he’s awful strict regular orthor-
dox, wouldn’t let a methodist come inside his
pulpit, for my part I don’t care much for
religion and I'm not afraid to hear Universa-
lists even.” This with an emphasis as though
Universalists were the most heterodox of all the
denominations.
     A few steps brought them to the minister’s,
door and as Uncle Rufus was with the strange
men, they were invited into the parlor—and
then he remembered that he had never asked
their names nor ascertained where they were
from.  However he was not in the least dis-
concerted and said to the minister “here are
two strangers come to ask permission to preach
in the Church to night.  The Rev. E. M.
turned upon them and without ceremony said.
“Who are you that you come without even
sending me your names and ask such a 
privilege?
	“We are Elders sent to preach the Ever-
lasting Gospel and we are not ashamed of our
names or our profession.”
	“Elders, Baptists are you? “And what new
thing have you to tell? “We are not Baptists
but Missionaries called and ordained by proper
authority.”
	“This ‘said the younger man of the two,” is
Elder Farr and my name is Simmonds and we
are Latter-day Saints.”
	“O, I understand “Mormons,” from Nauvoo
I presume, you cannot preach in my Church,
you believe in the Golden Bible and in Joe
Smith who claims to be a Prophet.”
	The Elders tried to explain about the Book
of Mormon and also that Joseph Smith was a 
true Prophet, but all to no purpose, the minis-
ter was furious, his wife hearing the confusion
came to learn what was the matter and asked
the strangers to be seated, and as if to atone
for the rudeness of her husband made some in-
quiries and appeared interested in their mission.
It was all to no purpose her husband was de-
termined and she suggested that the school-
house would hold quite a number of people,
and they could most likely have the privilege
of holding a meeting there.
     The Elders thanked Mrs. M. for the suggest-
ion and rose to go, but the minister’s anger
had been aroused and he vented his ill-will
by saying. “I don’t want to hear your false
doctrine and shall use my influence against 
your teachings while you remain here in
town.  My wife shall not go to the meeting,
I will not in any way give countenance to
men sent out without means to pay their
way, and I can assure you the people of B.
know better than to be carried away by the
romance of a Golden Bible.”
	The Elders saw how useless it was to ex-
postulate and were anxious to go, and they
were convinced that Mrs. M. was anxious to
hear them, from the interest she had mani-
fested, but after his declaration that his wife
should not go, they could only thank her
for her courtesy, and were glad to leave the
house where such a furore had been raised.
     Uncle Rufus too was glad to get away,

[Column 3]
and was now more determined to aid them
in getting a place to preach in for he was
rather fond of variety and in a sober staid
New England village there was not much 
change in those days and he had begun to
think like some others that their minister
orthodox though he was, did not quite under-
stand the needs of the people.  On the way
as they walked along he asked more ques-
tions, and elicited considerable information,
and became deeply interested in their con-
versation.  He helped them secure the school-
house and managed to spread the news through
the village that two “Mormon” Elders all
the way from Nauvoo were going to preach
and there would be something worth hearing.


