A MOTHER’S DUTY.

	There has much been said and written in
regard to the proper training of our children,
and the very great responsibilities resting
upon mothers.  I have had many reflections
upon this subject, and thought I would write a
few of them, and also the conclusion I had
come to upon some few points.
	It seems to be the opinion of the majority,
that the mothers alone are responsible for the
kind of characters their children will bear,
when they grow up to manhood and woman-
hood.
	In my humble opinion, the fathers should
by right, shoulder a good share of this re-
sponsibility, having a better opportunity of 
aquiring knowledge and understanding of those
principles, which are the best calculated, to
lead the youth in to the path which leads to
eternal lives.  It should be the duty of every
father to gather his family around him in the
evening when possible, and teach, and explain
those principles that lay at the foundation of
our holy religion, and how refreshing it would
be to the true mother, to throw aside her
cares for a short time to listen with her children,
to these words of comfort and encourage-
ment which the father should be prepared to
give who fills his mission faithfully as an
Elder in Israel.  She would feel renewed
strength and encouragement, to go forth and
fill her part of the programme, in the proper
training of their children.  Her teaching will
have more effect.  One assists the other.
mothers have a better opportunity to under-
stand the different traits and dispositions of
the children, and are perhaps better calculated 
in their natures to mould their characters, but
they need strength and support which is only
gained through a husband’s love and sympathy.
How many fathers are there, who enter their
homes without any signs of recognition of any of
its inmates, pick up a book or paper, and
are soon so deeply interested in the contents
as to be perfectly oblivious to all that is around
them.  De they ever stop to reflect that per-
haps, wife and children, would be just as
interested as themselves in the contents, if
they had the opportunity.  And if the father 
could be so self-sacrificing as to read aloud
such portions as would be useful, amusing or
instructive it would contribute very much to
the happiness of the home circle. How much
easier the children of such a family could be
controlled.  How much more susceptible their
natures would be to good impresions. Our
children are (or should be) our glory: the
fathers as well as the mothers, And my
private opinion publicly expressed is, where
the parents work hand in hand together, their
children take a greater interest in those institu-
tions which are organized for their benefit.
Primary Associations, Sabbath Schools &c.,
Parents should also attend them thus strength-
ening and encouraging those who preside over
these institutions, and are laboring so faith-
fully in the interest of the youth of Zion:
these are a few of my feelings in regard to
home government;  I trust the expression of
them will do no harm if they will do no good.
	Ever praying for the children of Zion, and 
those interested in their welfare.
	I am as ever a friend to	
	Fair Play.
Aug. 24th 1889.


