LUNCHEON IN THE PINE WOODS.
	Imagine a long and rather narrow ravine
running up hill, between two mountains thickly
covered with pine trees and shrubbery, the
ravine having formerly been the bed of a river
now dry, or if any water only showing itself
now and then in a few trickling drops, where
it escaped from the yellow soil and rocks that,
had all been turned over and washed in placer
mining. I have designated this a ravine but
these places are called in the mining vernacular
“a gulch,” and this particular one was “Gold
Gulch” I think.
	On a lovely afternoon in one of those mellow
Autumn days, when the leaves are just begin-
ning to be tipped with frost, and nature seems
more perfect for the charming variety of color,
and the sky itself looks softer and bluer than
in summer, a gay party of well-dressed ladies
were wending their way up the Gulch in pur-
suit of pleasure. On and on they clambered
over rocks, stumps and fallen trees, helping
each other occasionally and gathering flowers
of foliage by the way. The woods were fra-
grant with pine odors, and the wind among the
trees was sighing and whispering as though in
soft and gentle welcome to the visitors pene-
trating the deep woods far up among the steep
hills, where no human being seemed to have
made himself felt or known. Finally a place
of rest was selected and blankets spread and
hammocks strung up—the squirrels were the
sole live occupants of these wooded hills, no
birds, were seen but here and there we after-
wards discovered traces of the Yellow-Hammer
or Woodpecker.
	These ladies were guests of Mrs. Garrison of
Murray, and she had previously made ready
for the entertainment. Nor far from the spot
chosen as our resting place in the woods though
down in the Gulch below us, a fire had been
lighted and coffee and tea prepared, and the
table spread with fine white linen on boards,
carried up for the purpose.
	The walk had given the guests a good ap-
petite, and the tempting luncheon was very
inviting.  We were soon seated and partaking
of the choice viands and delicacies and compli-
menting the hostess, when it was discovered all
at once there were “thirteen at the table.” The
conversation immediately turned upon the sign
of this disastrous number, and several inter-
esting and extraordinary accounts were related;
it did not seem however to make any serious
impression upon the party for they were as
merry as possible, but when the meal was
finished and the plates sent away, some one
suggested the idea of the experimemt for all to
take hold of hands and rise at once, which was
accordingly agreed to and the ladies joined
hands and in a moment all rose simultaneously.
This may, or may not be a preventive, but we
were out for a good time and did not intend
to have our spirits dampened, recreation of
this kind is sometimes dearly bought, but that
day the fates were propitious and we were soon
reclining again on the steep hillside, bracing
ourselves against stumps or trees and talking
away as fast as possible. Some of the ladies
had brought fancy work, a pretty occupation

[Column 2]
for beautiful hands, but what were the rest to
do to make some display of talent if not of
beauty. Finally it was agreed that each should
contribute something to the general enjoyment
of the party. And each one used her powers
of persuasion to bring out a song or recitation
from some other one, the result was that Mrs.
Woods recited in its proper style, the humorous
piece, “If I’d had a fair show Joe Barker says
he”—this was loudly applauded, and then
came Miss Frances Geeson who recited and
then Miss Daisie gave us a recitation, and so
on, then Mrs. Woods gave us “The Petrified
Fern,” which seemed appropriate to the woods.
The writer propounded a question to the com-
pany, “Who was the greatest woman the world
had ever known?” This brought a variety of
answers as well as facts in favor of the one
named, and therefore awakened thought, some
said Eve, another Isabella, and still another
Joan of Arc, but the majority agreed that
Mary the mother of Jesus must have been the
greatest. Then followed a dissertation upon
woman suffrage, and in the midst of it a swaying
tree, created a scare and the ladies ran in all
directions, but the tree regained its position
and we all came back, though soon after de-
cided to ramble farther up the “gulch;” some
distance from our rendezvous we found a miner’s
cabin not long deserted, there was the rude
bedstead made of green poles fastened into the
logs—and a bed of cedar boughs still fragrant
—logs rounded for pillows and stools sawed
from logs, a frying pan, an old pipe some
newspapers and other odd things, were left be-
hind. In such rude cabins up among the
wooded hills,men find rest from their day’s toil
of digging for gold. Often these miners are
educated and cultivated gentlemen, sometimes
in search of health but more often of wealth,
but dame fortune is fickle and though some
have luck it is the exception only.
	There’s not much more to tell, day light was
fading and we turned our faces homeward,
chatting as we went along as merrily as ever.
It had been a lovely afternoon, and an enter-
taining interview to be remembered with
pleasure, for the ladies who came together on
this happy occasion, had made it a tribute of
respect to the writer, and she recalls each face
at the moment of this writing with sincere ad-
miration and a distinctive appreciation of the
honor.
