A LAW COLLEGE FOR WOMEN.
	With eleven students Mme. Emily Kempin
has just opened the first law college in the
world for women. Mme. Kempin is an L. L.
D. from the university of Zurich, Switzerland.
She has three bright children and a husband
who is a Presbyterian. Her eyes are blue
and her complexion blonde. She may be a
trifle above the medium height, is of slender
figure and sits erect and well poised in her
straight-backed chair. She has a face of
sweetness and intelligence, and commands
better English vocabulary than most native
born Americans. Her law office is on Broad-
way. Only three women in all Europe have
graduated in law. One is lecturing in the
University of Bologna, Italy, and another the
daughter of a Belgian judge, and her appli-
cation for admission to the bar of her own
country is now under consideration. The third
is this quiet little Mme. Kempin.  
	To familiarize herself with American law
Mme. Kempin applied for admission to the
Columbia college law school. Some of the
trustees were out of town and it was four
months before she was definitely refused.
Meanwhile she had been quietly attending lec-
tures. From Columbia she went to New
York university and here as a mark of court-
esy to the university of Zurich, but with the
distinct understanding that no precedent was
created, was received. Since beginning, an
independent practice she has become counsel
for the Swiss legation in Washington and
superintendent of the New York arbitration
society and says that the idea of opening a law
school came to her only when repeatedly
questioned by ladies owning property who
wanted information about their own business
contracts, about guardianship, wills and
inheritances. “Suppose,” said her husband,
“you lecture to women to qualify them for the
management of their affairs, or the supervision
of their agents.” Somewhat to Mme. Kempin’s
surprise no ladies have yet applied for these
partial or special courses for property or
business women, but eleven young women
desire to become full-fledged lawyers.


Mrs. Mary E. Sanborn Cox, M. D., has
started a semi monthly in Omaha, Neb., called
“Life and Light.”
	The unanimous report of the suffrage
committee of the constitutional convention
contained the following on woman suffrage:
	“The right of citizens of the state of Wyoming to vote
and hold office shall not be denied or abridged on account
of sex.”
	The Cheyenne Tribune, which is standing
manfully for equal rights for women, says,
“This is not strong enough.  The woman
suffrage plank of the Wyoming constitution
should be so worded that there can be no
possible cavil or dispute over the signification
of the word “citizen.”


