WOMAN'S THOUGHT AND WOMAN'S WORK.

Written for the Relief Society Conference, Oct. 7. 1889.
	When inspiration from the worlds on high,
	Moves in the hearts of wise and gifted men,
	They bring forth thoughts and deeds that never die,
	Slumber they may, at times, but by-and-bye,
	With force and power renewed they wake again.

	Nor sons alone our Father thus inspires,
	His daughters may the rich communion share;
	When woman's heart is filled with good desires,
	And, for the path of light, she too enquires,
	God always hears her pure and humble prayer.

	Mark how Rebecca with her mother-heart
	Asked God, "If it is so, why am I thus?"
	The knowledge which she sought, God did impart,
	She felt its truth, which, doubtless, made her start,
	Oh! what a lesson, sisters, this should be to us!

	We fly to doctors when we chance to think,
	"There's something wrong, I wonder what it is!"
	To pay a five or ten we do not shrink,
	For doctors' wise opinion, scowl and wink—
	Is God's advice so cheap we trust not His?

	Enough of this; that in this latter time,
	God to his handmaids speaks we surely know;
	Thousands of us, from many a land and clime,
	Have heard—and felt it was God's words sublime—
	Given through our prophet poetess, our E. R. Snow.

	Nor she alone, our loved and honored Pheobe,
	And (also gone,) our patient, kind Marinda,
	Spake often thus, inspired and sacred truths;
	And with us still, dear Zina and Bathsheba,
	Our ever faithful and devout Presendia,
	How their sweet words the drooping spirit soothes!

	And thousands more, let not one heart feel slighted,
	We all may work, Christ teaches where and how:
	Let every lamp be filled, and trimmed and lighted,
	To Father's joyons feast we're all invited,
	And almost taste the good things, even now.

	But here, we reach what I first thought to mention,
	A holy sample, yea, a sacred symbol;
	That, through our Father's love and condescension,
	This grand Relief Society first held convention,
	In the bright brain of Sister Sarah M. Kimball.

	The thought was her's, God gave it; and she ran,
	As duty bade to the Prophet Joseph Smith;
	Broached unto him the subject of her plan,
	That flash of light was truth, from thence began,
	Our organizations and our work forthwith.

	"Do good," the Prophet said, "relieve the poor,
	Comfort the sorrowing, bless each other oft,
	Save souls, teach woman to be chaste and pure,
	That crowns of righteousness all may secure,
	Encourage those bowed down to look aloft.

	Wash and anoint the sick, beneath your hands,
	Those not to death appointed, shall revive;
	Let no man say you nay, what God commands,
	The pure and humble spirit understands,
	And through it oft, the dead are made alive.

	Never, without the Sisters' Organization,
	Will Christ's true Church be organized in full;
	It tends to peace, to union and salvation,
	Cannot degrade, but brings true elevation.
	Working against those pow'rs which downward pull."

	Thus spake the Prophet, though a woman's thought
	Had been the impetus to this great work;
	Our noble Sarah all these years hath taught,
	Is with us still, "Behold what God hath wrought!"
	Think on, work on, my Sisters, never shirk!


[Column 1]

Sister Sarah M. Kimball explained after
the poem had been read that in sentiment it
was true, but that she had suggested the or-
ganization of a benevolent society to some
ladies who had met by invitation, at her home
in Nauvoo. A committee was appointed to
draft constitution and by-laws, and when these
were subsequently shown to the Prophet
Joseph, he said he had something better for
the sisters and called a meeting and organized
the Relief Society.
	Meeting adjourned until seven in the eve-
ning singing,

"Lord dismiss us with our blessing''

	Brother Graves of Provo gave some notices
concerning silk etc. Benediction by Sister
Judith Higbee.

