The Heritage Of The Mormon Home Priscilla L. Evans Former President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society HERE is one thing absolutely essential to the continued strength of the Church. The auxiliary organizations help, the Priesthood quorums also, the schools and colleges ?all are valuable aids to the one fundamental thing that is so essential to the development of the Church, and that is the home. It is difficult now, much more difficult than it was in pioneer times, to maintain the good, old-fashioned Mormon home. Civilization is eating at the roots of the home and seeking to destroy it. In some nations of the world today, the home has already been destroyed. It is much more difficult for our young women of today to maintain the home that is necessary to germinate the roots essential for a good missionary than it was in the time of our grandmothers and mothers, and they must have encouragement, for only from the good old-type Mormon home can we hope to maintain the missionary system as we have it today, and send forth into the world the kind of missionaries I have had the privilege to receive. It was my pleasure and privilege to spend a good deal of time over a period of several years with my husband's mother, Anna Bruun Evans, in her old farm home on the Weber River, forty miles from here. During her young womanhood, before the time of automobiles, this farm home was very isolated. I am going to speak to you of her for a few minutes, because she is symbolic of the choice spirits who presided over the early. Homes in the Church. As I speak of her, it will bring to your minds those you love and those who are enshrined in your hearts, for they are very much like her. In her advanced years, she asked to be taken to the old home. To make her comfortable and happy, some remodeling for modern conveniences was necessary. In renovating the attic, the closets and the basement, there were unfolded to our view many of the evidences of that simple, beautiful life of our Mormon pioneers. There I found the cards with which she carded the wool for material for bedding and for clothes. I found a little old picture of my husband and his brother at the ages of eight and ten; they were dressed in suits that she had made from cloth, the wool for which she had carded, and she had woven it and made the clothes. We found the quilting frames and the candle molds in which she had molded twelve candles. We found the old caster?not a bottle broken, even the glass stoppers were all there, and it was just as perfect as it was when she used it. We found the old reed organ just as perfect as it was when she had _ gathered around her her little boys and girls and had played and sung for them. We found the old cradle as perfect as it was when it rocked the first of the eleven children. I am the proud possessor of this lovely cradle. Sister Evans said to me, "You take that, because if I give it to the younger girls they will take the rock- 488 ers off, paint it white, and put a bow on it." When we went into the attic we found several boxes tied with ribbon. Carefully I carried them down, one by one, and opened them in her presence. In one of them we found an old doll made of sawdust, with china head, feet and hands (not bisque)?some of you may remember the old china dolls. There was a little pair of shoes with high tops and scalloped button-holes; they had been worn by a little girl of three who had died sixty years before. There were little wooden boats and other carved things the boys had made. All had been put away carefully. Everything in this home evi- ? denced care and thrift and no waste ?she was too grateful to be wasteful. You know waste is an expression of ingratitude. Brother Evans and I took over the place, and we went to examine the title. Brother Evans and I have examined many titles, but we had never seen one like this. No tax had ever been delinquent, no lien ever recorded against the growing crops, no mortgage ever on the little farm. You will appreciate that in order to rear a family, take care of them in sickness, and bury some, many sactifices were made and many dreams were unfulfilled. But, as you go into that house even now the very walls speak of peace. We would be humiliated and ashamed now to allow dishonor, carping criticism or unfriendliness to enter those rooms. Those sweet rooms speak of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. They had a small farm in a rigorous climate, where they could not even raise fruit, but there was no debt, no dishonor, no unkindness, and Sister 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1941

 Evans reigned as priestess in the home beside her husband, who was a patriarch in the Church. I see her hands now, blue-veined and trembling, but still useful. Water, wind and sun had hardened: them; hard work had enlarged the knuckles and broadened them; but how sure the were, how capable, and how tender. Her whole life was written in her hands, as yours and mine is being written in our hands. HEN, from this atmosphere I went into the mission field. I stepped from a train in New York City, in crowded Grand Central Station, where thousands were pushing and crowding, each intent on his own errand and not at all interested in anything else. We were driven to the mission home through the crowded New York streets and established in a lovely apartment nine stories above the street. It looked out over the Hudson River. From the windows you could observe every kind of craft, from the smallest tug to the largest warships, plying up and down the river. The traffic was tremendous?thousands of cars constantly moving in both directions. It was at once apparent that here was a home established for convenience, for comfort and for the carrying on of efficient missionary work. But there was no air of permanence about it; there was no background of an old Mormon home there. Could we establish this? Yes, if we had within us the right traits of character. But we must remember that tomorrow the walls will speak of what goes on in that home today. The influence will be there of everything we say or do today. There came into that home those RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE lovely young missionaries of yours. I see the girls now, slim, capable, well groomed, well dressed, well schooled. They looked me over and appraised me quite carefully. It was not a critical looking over, for they wanted to like me. They had been brought up in a Mormon home and taught to respect authority and to like authority. They wanted to like Brother Evans, and they hoped they would not be disappointed. It was our responsibility to see that they were not disappointed. This home and these young women seemed a far cry from the old Mormon home and "Grandma" Evans. 'This was not the case, however. As I became better acquainted with them, and watched them in their branches, comforting when death came, min- 489 istering to the sick, engaging in conversations with hostile groups, conducting themselves under all circumstances with womanliness and with dignity, I sensed they were the Same young women as our pioneer ancestors, seeking satisfactions in a new way and, I think, in a more difficult way. I am convinced that the pioneer life was not so difficult as the life these girls were living, and I have thought many times what magnificent pioneers they would have made. So your responsibility in the homes, mothers of the missionaries, is the most sacred responsibility in the whole Church, and may you be happy in the joy that yours is the greatest work that can be done. ?Settlement of Salt Lake Valley: (Continued from page 442) been established from Ogden to Cedar City, where the experiences of the settlers in the Salt Lake Valley were being repeated. Salt Lake served as a point of assembly and redistribution of immigrants as they arrived every summer and fall over the covered-wagon route. A goodly number remained in the Salt Lake Valley where trades and industry were developing to provide employment for artisans of all kinds. The digging of cooperative ditches and canals steadily expanded the area of good farming land and ordinarily food supplies were assured. There were lean years, of course, like those of 1855 and 1856, when most rigorous measures were taken to avoid starvation and when the Mormons learned the importance of storing grain as did Joseph in Egypt. But the details of these experiences are another story.