A Prayer In The Forest (Adapted from the "Book of Enos" ) Genet Bingham Dee I have something very imsomething very " said Jacob to his 6 C OME with me, my son, for portant, serious to tell you,' son Enos. "Yes, Father," Enos answered, and followed his father into the large white house, to an upper room where it was quiet. "My boy," the father began, after a long moment of thoughtful silence, "you have been carefully taught in all the forms of our language. You read and write like a scholar. Better still, you have been blessed with faith in God. You have been taught the words of the prophets, the holy ones of Israel." "True, Father." The young man's eyes were serious yet gleaming with interest. "And I thank you, and say with all my heart, 'Blessed be the name of my God for it.'" "I am an old, old man," the father continued. "Soon I must go down to my grave. To you, my son, I give the sacred trust of recording the religious history of our people. And I say unto you, as my brother Nephi said unto me: "Write the things upon the metal plates which you consider to be most precious. If there is preaching which is sacred, or revelation which is great, or prophesying, engraven the heads of them upon these plates and touch upon them as much as possible, for Christ's sake and for the sake of our people.' "? "Do you think I have the ability, Father, or—or do you consider me worthy?" The young man searched his father's face anxiously while awaiting his reply. After a quiet moment the father answered: "God will make you worthy if you do your part.... "And Enos, in addition to being Recorder, you are to be guardian of the most precious things in all the kingdom—The Plates of Brass. What a marvelous record that is! Your grandfather, my father Lehi, prophesied that these plates of brass should never perish, neither should they be dimmed any more by time. Upon them are recorded the story of the creation of the world, the prophecies of the holy prophets since the beginning even down to the time my father left Jerusalem, and other valuable information. Yes, this record is most important. The great Law of Moses is engraved thereon. How necessary it has been and will be to our people forever!" Jacob paused as if to let his son consider the worth of his words, then continued, "In the great chest where the plates of record are kept there are also other rare and precious things. There is the Liahona, that curious ball which God provided to guide us through the dreary wilderness and across the great waters. I was young then, for, as you know, I was born in the wilderness near the Red Sea. In my tender years, I knew hunger and was often weary, for our little group journeyed in desolate places." Jacob paused again, and the sorrow of sad memories seemed to Page 453 454 darken his countenance. 'Then he continued, "In the chest you will also find the sword of Laban, which my brother Nephi took from Laban the night in Jerusalem when he obtained the Brass Plates. You have seen it. It's a wonderful sword. The hilt of it is pure gold, embossed and inlaid—of fine workmanship. 'The blade is of the most precious steel. Oh, my son, I would that there were no use in this. Promised Land for such weapons." After he finished speaking, he sat for some time with his head bowed as if in deep or reverent thought, while Enos patiently waited, looking far out over the quiet valley and the flat-roofed houses nestling in the trees. When he spoke again, it was with a new eagerness: "Will you promise me, Enos, solemnly promise me, as I promised my brother Nephi when he made me Recorder of the sacred history and guardian of the treasures of the past, that you will faithfully keep this trust? Protect these things with your very life if necessary?" "I promise, Father." "And will you make a careful, a true record of the history of this people during your lifetime, remembering always to record faithfully the prophecies and the events which are of a sacred nature?" "I shall do my best, Father, God helping me. But I still doubt my worthiness for such a sacred task, for "I realize that this record is to be engraved upon metal plates, and that it will endure through all generations." "Be humble, my son. Trust in God. Glory in His power and majesty. Ask in faith, and power shall be given unto thee. And bear it well in mind, my son, that it was Jesus 

 

 Christ himself who commanded m brother Nephi to make these golden plates and record upon them the history of this people, this branch of the House of Israel. Wanderers are we, cast out from Jerusalem." NOS was perplexed and troubled in his soul because of the magnitude of the task which his father had assigned him. And one day he went deep into the great forest to hunt beasts. And when he was all alone in the shade of the cool trees, those mighty giants of green which God had made, the great task which his father had assigned him weighed heavily upon his mind. And he said to himself: "T am not worthy before God. I have sinned in many small ways. Would that I were as pure and good as my dear old father or the holy prophets about whom he so often speaks. My soul hungers to be better, to be more worthy to draw nearer to my Maker, the Holy One of Israel.' Then he knelt down to pray. He cried unto God in mighty prayer. All the day long did he cry unto Him. Yea, and when the dark, still night descended upon the silence of the forest, he did still raise his voice on high with such fervor that his prayer reached the heavens. And there came a voice unto him saying, "Enos, thy sins are forgiven thee, and thou shalt be blessed." What joy and gladness filled his soul, for he knew that the voice came from heaven. He knew also that God could not lie nor deceive. He was all but overcome with the joy of the blessed knowledge that all his guilt was swept away. In ecstasy he cried, "Lord, how is it done?" A PRAYER IN THE FOREST And the Lord answered him. Yea, even the voice of God spoke from heaven and said unto him: "Because of thy faith in Christ whom thou hast never before heard nor seen. And many years pass away before He shall manifest Himself in the flesh; wherefore, go to, thy faith hath made thee whole." When Enos heard these words, the spirit of Christ entered his heart. He forgot all about himself and began to think of others. His love went out in longing for all the people of the Nephite colony. He prayed most sincerely, pouring out his soul to God for his people. While he was praying, "struggling in the spirit," the voice of the Lord came into his mind again, saying, "I will visit thy brethren according to their diligence in keeping my commandments. I have given them this land and it is a holy land and I curse it not save it be for the cause of iniquity." After Enos heard these glorious words, his faith grew stronger and the light of the spirit of Christ, which is the light of love for all men, caused his heart to glow with love even for his enemies. And he prayed most fervently to his Father in Heaven for a blessing for the Laman- 455 ites. After he had thus prayed, "'laboring with all diligence," the Lord heard his prayer, and answered, saying: "I will grant unto thee according to thy desires, because of thy faith."' Now when Enos heard these divine words, his whole being was transported with joy, for there was a blessing which he desired above all else—that the Lord would preserve the Sacred Record, the record of his people of which he had so recently been made historian and guardian. So he prayed in faith, for he knew that God was able to preserve the records, even if the Lamanites had sworn to destroy them and all the records and traditions so sacred to the Nephites. And he cricd unto God continually in faith, believing. And the Lord heard his prayer and covenanted with Enos that the record should be preserved and even that it should be brought forth unto the Lamanites in God's own due time. And Enos knew that all would be according to the covenant which the Lord had made. And his soul did rest.