\ Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 1 What It Means To Be Successfully Married (Tuesday, October 28, 1941) Objective: To develop the thought that happiness is the measure of successful marriage, and by a review of past lessons and a preview of those to come to suggest MARRIAGE is the common experience of mankind. Each of us either has been, or will likely be, a member of two different families in his lifetime?the first as a child, the second as a parent. Marriage is an essential part of our total life, and we are bound by its influence at all times, from birth until death, and even after. If we look backward we see the marriages of our forefathers which made us possible, and if we look ahead we see our own marriage relationships which hold the keys to progression and joy throughout eternity. This is likely so because God intended it that way. After the creation of man, He said, " It is not good that man should be alone," and so He created woman to be man's "helpmeet" and companion.. Associations between men and women on this earth have always been sought after, and they have often resulted in some of the most lofty and sublime joys that it is possible for humans to obtain. It is natural for men and women to be attracted to each other and to seek the normal relationships of marriage and family life. It is natural also for marriage and family life, when properly conducted, to bring genuine ?satisfaction, happiness, and joy to those who participate. Page 500 Successful Marriage What does it mean to be successfully married? We have already hinted at the answer: a successful marriage is one that is truly happy. "Man is that he might have joy." The very purpose of life is the attainment of happiness, or joy. All of man's struggles are built around his hope for happiness, and the degree of happiness he obtains is the best measure we have of the success or failure of his efforts. To be successfully married, then, means to be happily married. But happiness is'a relative thing; therefore, he who is most happy may be said to be most successful. Pleasure of a personal or selfish sort often deprives one of a higher happiness or joy and thus leads to failure. Liquor, for example, though it may give passing pleasure to the one who drinks, usually makes for unhappiness in the home. Happiness begins with self-control. Furthermore, the pursuit of happiness is a cooperative adventure. No one can be happy alone. A successful family is one in which all members are privileged to share in the common bond of happiness, and each is able to reinforce the individual happiness of each of the others. But happiness comes from growth and the opportunity for growth. No some of the things necessary to the attainment of this goal., LESSON DEPARTMENT one enjoys himself so thoroughly as he who is struggling and achieving. Eternal joy is the reward for eternal - progression. Answering our question in a little different way, then, we may say that a successful marriage is a marriage that results in a family of vibrant personalities, free to develop according to their needs under the help and encouragement of others, and thoroughly happy in the process. There have been a number of recent studies on the extent of happiness in marriage. From a sample of 7412 marriages, Richard O. Lang found that 72 percent were rated as happy by persons who knew the couples well and only 9 percent were rated as definitely unhappy.' Katharine B. Davis made a study of 1000 married women and found that 87 percent of them reported their marriages as happy and only 12 percent as unhappy." Burgess and Cottrell found that 63 percent of the 526 couples they studied were happy in marriage and only about 21 percent were unhappy.' These and similar studies show that according to the opinions of married couples and their friends the majority of marriages are happy. 'This is indeed an encouraging sign; but we must be careful, just the same, not to let the appearance of happiness among the majority blind us to the facts of marriage failure among the few. It is good that marriages are generally successful, but, even so, the fact that from g to 21 percent of them are Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart, Personality and the Family, p. 211. *Ibid, p. 212. ?E. W. Burgess and L. S. Cottrell, Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, p. 34. 501 unhappy presents a problem that cannot be overlooked. Unfortunately, the associations between men and women are not always pleasant. Marriage does not always result in happiness. Sometimes marriage fails, and when it does the result can only be unhappiness and misery for those involved. Some of the deepest and most lasting satisfactions of life come from the institution of marriage, but so also do some of the most disturbing and saddening experiences. Figuratively speaking, marriage can either lift a person to heaven or drag him to hell. Potentially marriage means happiness, and often, too, that happiness is achieved, but the sad thing is that in many cases it is not achieved, and misery takes its place. One has only to iook around him to see abundant evidence of the breakdown of marriage and of the untold human suffering following in its path. Misunderstanding, bewilderment, heartaches, tears, bitterness, jealousy, hatred?all of these and more are common in human experience, too common in fact. In 1930 there was approximately one divorce for every six matriages in this country, with the divorce rate continuing to increase. In addition to divorce, many families are broken up through separation or desertion; many more are living in a state of unhappiness, although holding together out of consideration for the children or because of the stigma or expense of divorce. Many of us know families like these personally, and those of us who do not are nevertheless made fully aware of the problem through books, magazines, newspapers, gossip, and the like. Broken homes, together with quarreling and 502 other conflict situations in homes that do not actually break up, give striking proof of the reality of marriage failure. We do not want to exaggerate the problem. But, on the other hand, neither do we want to minimize it, for to do so would be to shirk a responsibility and to lose an opportunity for service. The happiness that comes from successful marriage is within the reach of everyone. The fact that some have failed to attain this happiness should only serve to stimulate us to greater effort. What can we do? Preparation for Marriage There are many things that might be done to help stabilize the family and to make marriage successful in the full sense of the word. Some of these things have already been suggested in earlier lessons and others are to follow throughout the year. But first and foremost of them all is the idea of preparation for marriage. Too many people enter mattimony without sufficient foresight or training for the problems and responsibilities that lie ahead. Love is not blind, as some foolishly believe it to be, but rather it is the reward of understanding and effort. When people believe love to be something instinctive or blind, they are often blinded by this very belief. Love is something that grows and deepens with the adjustment that two people are able to make to each other, and intelligent preparation for marriage is the first step in this adjustment. Preparation for marriage starts before birth and continues on throughout life. It involves first of 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1941

 all good heredity, then good home and community training, then successful courtship, and finally adjustment and growth throughout the duration of the marriage contract. The early habit training of the growing infant or the courting behavior of the adolescent youth are equally as important to successful marriage as are the conscious efforts during marriage to play the game. Marriage fails sometimes because of inferior hereditary background, sometimes because of family personality traits that can be laid to early training, sometimes because of unwise courtship behavior or an unfortunate choice of a mate, sometimes because of an unwillingness to cooperate or to do one's part in marriage, and sometimes to other factors, or a combination of several. But always, where marriage fails, there has been inadequate preparation on the part of someone. Successful marriage requires more study and effort today than at any other period in the history of mankind. This is because of both the complexity of modern society, which has weakened the family in many ways, and the somewhat artificial environment within which many children are now reared. In regard to the first, it can be observed that the family is not now as simple and all-inclusive as it used to be. It now has to compete with a number of other agencies?such as the school, the place of employment, and recreational centers?for the time and attention of its members. This means, of course, that there isn't as much in the home to hold it together as formerly, and, consequently, there is an even greater need for special effort or preparation, In LESSON DEPARTMENT regard to the second point, it can be observed that in the days when families were large and were mostly on the farm, training was somewhat spontaneous and natural. Being close to nature, children picked up a sufficient knowledge of sex without much formal instruction, and living in a large family group they learned to sacrifice, to cooperate, and to perform the necessary household tasks. But not so today. With a decrease in the average size of the family and with an increase of the urban environment, it becomes increasingly necessary to put forth conscious effort in preparation for marriage. The Relief Society is attempting to do its part in meeting this great need, as is shown by the present series of lessons on foundations for successful marriage. It is realized, of course, that most of the Relief Society sisters are already married, and that in many cases their children have all married and moved away. But it is still felt that they have need for education in family life. Everyone has. The younger sisters will have children and adolescent youths of their own with whom to deal, and an understanding of the problems of childhood and youth will help them prepare these children for successful marriage in years to come. In addition to this, they should themselves benefit directly through studying and planning and thus laying the foundations for success in their own marriages from day to day. The older sisters should also receive direct benefit in most cases, but aside from this they are in an excellent position to help others?children, grandchildren, or friends. Marriage, as Latter-day Saints know it, is eter- 503 nal; but, even so, making it succeed is no simple task. There is need for the interest and efforts of everyone, regardless of age or the stage of the family cycle he or she happens to be in. Points From Previous Lessons You who have followed the "Education for Family Life" series in the Relief Society Magazine for the last three years have come in contact with over twenty different lessons dealing with the modern family. These have been written for the purpose of helping you to better understand the family, so that you can live more successfully yourselves and can help your children and others to obtain greater happiness in family life. You have learned that the modern family is not always as successful as it should be, and you have been given a number of thoughts or suggestions for understanding and improving life in the home. Among those thoughts were the following: 1. Approach family problems patiently, tolerantly, and intelligently. 2. Recognize and understand the fundamental differences between the natures of men and women, and try to build up a complementary cooperation with each other based upon these differences. 3. Put forth a conscious effort to make family life successful; cooperate, avoid the little things that may hurt or irritate, forgive and forget, be cheerful and helpful, et cetera. 4. Grow up emotionally. In other words, cultivate unselfishness, broadmindedness, and tolerance for the other person. Feel a responsibility toward your mate. 5. Make the home a place in which all of its members can feel secure and can have ample opportunity for personal growth. 6. Try to understand the problems of your children at all ages, adapt yourself to their changing needs, help them over difficulties, and train them for faith, in- 504 telligence, health, self-control, responsibility, et cetera. 7. Base family government upon democracy, obedience, and respect. The "Family Council Plan" was suggested in this connection. 8. Cultivate and maintain a religious atmosphere in the home. G. Handle the family pocketbook in line with a budget plan, and in such a way that both the responsibilities and the rights of all are recognized. These are only a few of the many suggestions for making family life - successful that you have read or discussed during the past three years. But this brief review may help to tie them all together into a broad overall picture. Then, perhaps, this general picture can well serve as the background for the new series of lessons just beginning. Conclusions This is the first of a series of lessons entitled, "'Foundation for Successful Marriage." The series will be based upon the belief that the primary measure of successful marriage is happiness, the happiness of all based upon the cooperative development of all. Many marriages fail to reach this ideal, which calls forth a need for such study courses as this to help prepare or lay foundations for successful marriage. But the foundations do not start with the marriage ceremony itself; they reach deeper into the courtship, into the childhood, and into the hereditary backgrounds of those involved. The problem of successful marriage is essentially the same as the problem of successful life. Next month we will discuss "The Heritage of the Home" as a foundation for successful marriage; from there 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1941

 we will go on to the foundations that are laid in courtship, and finally we will discuss the problems of marriage itself. Problems and Projects 1. About one out of every ten adults in this country goes through life without ever marrying. Do you think his chances for happiness in life are better or worse than those who marry? Give your reasons. 2. What, in your opinion, are the major reasons for failure in marriage? 3. Of all the married couples you know, about what proportion would you say are successfully married? What do these famihes have that those you consider unsuccessful do not have; do they have more money, more prestige, more love and happiness, or what; in other words, what is a successful marriage? 4. What are the main points that you remember from earlier lessons on "Education for Family Life" discussed during the last three years? Can you add to the list given in this lesson? 5. Why is preparation necessary for successful marriage? Is it any more necessary today than in earlier times? - Why? When should preparation start? When should it stop? What practical value do you see in a study course such as this one? References Baber, Ray E., Marriage and the Family, McGraw-Hill, N. Y., 1939, Ppp. 195-199. Burgess, Ernest W., and Cottrell, Leonard S., Jr., Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, Prentice-Hall, Inc., N. Y., 1939, passim. Elliott, Mable A., and Merrill, Francis E., Social Disorganization, Harpers, N. Y.., 1934, 11-566. O34, P Pirdmel and Ella B., Personality and the Family, D. C. Heath and Co., N. Y., 1935, pp. 24-28; 210-228; 307-322. Ung, Moses, Modern Marriage, F, 8 Crofts and Co., N. Y., 1940, pp. 1-36. Ogburn, William F., "The Family and its Functions," Recent Social Trends, McGraw-Hill, N. Y., pp. 661-708. Popenoe, Paul, "Making or Marring Your Marriage," Hygeia, October, 1937, pp. 874-876.