Ilisston Lessons Latter-day Saint Hymns (For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 1 (Tuesday, October 21, 1941) THE MORNING BREAKS, THE SHADOWS FLEE The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled. The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world. The clouds of error disappear Before the rays of truth divine; The glory bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine. The Gentile fulness now comes in, And Israel's blessings are at hand; Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed from sin, Shall in their promised Canaan stand. Jehovah speaks! Let earth give ear, And Gentile nations turn and live; His mighty arm is making bare, His cov'nant people to receive. Angels from heav'n and truth from earth Have met, and both have record borne; Thus Zion's light is bursting forth, To bring her ransomed children home. PARLEY PARKER PRATT was born in New York State on April 12, 1807. He came from a line of ancestry that had been in America for nearly two hundred years. In early manhood he went to Ohio with a few books, took up some land in the wilderness, built him a house of logs, returned to his home town to marty, then took his wife back to Ohio with him, and there read and studied and worked, preaching to his neighbors meanwhile from the Bible, which he believed he understood better than they did. All this, of course, was before the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in April, 1830. ?Parley P. Pratt. In Ohio, Parley P. Pratt joined the Church of the Disciples, or Campbellite Church, brought into existence by Alexander Campbell. The preacher who converted the young man was Sidney Rigdon, a noted evangelist. Feeling that he knew much about the Bible and that he could express himself well, Mr. Pratt decided to give up farming and study for the ministry. So he sold out his holdings in Ohio and went, with his wife, back to New York, where he intended to enter a seminary. When, however, he reached the vicinity of Rochester, New York, he was strongly impressed to stay there for a time. He sent his wife on to the old home, with the intention of Page 505 506 following her later. Thinking that his impression concerned his preaching of the gospel, he made some appointments for meetings. One day, he ran upon a copy of a new book. It was called the Book of Mormon. Someone told him the story of its origin and something about its contents. He was greatly interested. That night he read as much of it as he could, and was even more interested. The next morning he set out for the place where the new prophet, Joseph Smith, was staying. After a conversation with some of the Church leaders in Fayette, he was baptized and forthwith ordained an elder, an office in the Priesthood which authorized him to preach and to administer the ordinances of the Faith. This was in the fall of 1830, a few months after the organization of the Church. From this time on till his tragic death twenty-seven years later, he devoted himself heart and. Soul to the task of spreading the Gospel by tongue and pen. His little book, The Voice of Warning, and his Key to Theology have been read by millions. In 1835 he was chosen one of the Twelve Apostles. Elder Pratt had two very unusual gifts. He was an eloquent public speaker, and he was a talented writer of both prose and poetry. In the song book, Latter-day Saint Hymns, there are thirty-eight of his hymns and songs. He was the most prolific song writer in the Church. It was fortunate, if not even providential, that Parley P. Pratt came upon the scene at so early a date. WE the do not know exactly when poem "The Morning 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1941

 Breaks, the Shadows Flee" was written. It appears for the first time in The Millennial Star, in 1840. The Star was a Church periodical published in England, of which Elder Pratt was the founder and first editor. The poem was written, as the author himself tells us of his poems generally, out of "the melting strains of joy and admiration [wonder] in contemplating the approaching dawn of that glorious day which shall crown the earth and its inhabitants with universal peace and rest." That sentence gives the motive of the poem. There had been a long night of spiritual darkness, during which men could only grope for the light, and now the sun of truth was just rising upon the world. God had again spoken to man through a prophet. Great events were about to take place preparatory to the second coming of Chnist and the reign of our Lord on the earth. It is difficult for us who have become used to the ideas and the ideals of the Church to realize the enthusiasm with which the first members of the organization hailed this dawn of spiritual truth. The best poetry is full of images. It suggests pictures to the mind. We see. Accordingly this poem makes a series of clear sketches on the wall of the mind. In the first stanza, for instance, there comes before the mind the picture of a man at daybreak pulling a flag up to the top of a flagpole, with the approaching light in the background. In the second stanza, we see the clouds gradually disappearing before the rays of this new sun, which "bursts" over the world. The third stanza presents a huge gathering of people LESSON DEPARTMENT standing on an elevated piece of ground, cleansed from sin and, therefore, joyful. Then, in the fourth stanza, we hear a voice, to which nations listen, and Jehovah's arm is extended to receive His people. In the final stanza, angels descend from above, and truth, in the form of a book, comes out of the earth. This finishes a series of pictures, each part of which is representative. The light comes, the clouds move away, the people are happy, the voice utters truth, and angels visit the earth again. MANY great and important events are referred to in the hymn which mean much to Latter-day Saints: First, there is the restoration of the Gospel through the Prophet Joseph. That came through the visitation to him of heavenly messengers. This new revelation made many things clear that were obscure before. Second, there is the gathering of Israel, especially the tribe of Ephraim, into the Church of the Firstborn, and of the Jews to Palestine. Third, there is the idea that the Gospel must be preached to the Gentiles first and then to the Jews ?a reversal of the process in the Christian dispensation. _ Finally, there is the idea, in the fourth stanza, that this spiritual light will have a curative value on the nations of the earth; they shall "turn and live." Such, then, is the poem, "The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee." At the same time that it presents to ' us some images, pictures, scenes that are in themselves beautiful, it gives us a sweeping view of the great latter-day work?the revelation of it and its principal events. 507 [N the main, Mormonism, as it is called, is a restoration. In this movement the Priesthood has been restored through the ancient Apostles, Peter, James and John; the Church of Christ has been established again with all its principles and ordinances; the Jews are to be gathered to Palestine; Zion, or the New Jerusalem, is to be built, so that the word of the Lord shall go forth from Jerusalem and the law from Zion; and a flood of light has been thrown on the "plan of life and salvation," the "everlasting covenant," by which both men and nations will be saved if they will but accept it. It is this vast, wonderful plan that Parley P. Pratt had in mind when he composed this beautiful hymn. Some poetry is merely beautiful, but this poem, while full of beauty, has meaning as well. A great novelist says that a story to be in the highest class must throw light on something. This song by Elder Pratt does this; it lights up the purposes of God in the "last days." Questions 1. Select from this poem the stanza you consider the most beautiful and then memorize it. It is a wholesome thing to be able to recite poetry. Maybe you can memorize the entire hymn. 2. How many distinct pictures do you have from this poem? Can you see the images clearly? You may add some details of your own in order to complete the picture. 3. Now change the pictures to thoughts. What does dawn here spoken of mean? The clouds? The arm and voice are whose? 4. Tell the details of Elder Pratt's life. 5. What distinct movements, or events, are mentioned here? Tell about each.