The Settlement Of Salt Lake Valley Feramorz Y. Fox President, L. D. S. College
ONE of the first concerns of the company of Mormon pioneers that reached Salt Lake Valley in July 1847 was to put in crops. Though it was already nearer harvest than planting time, they went to work hopefully and with great industry. On July 23, after a prayer of gratitude and dedication, an organization was effected to begin plowing. During the day three plows were broken in the hard-baked soil. After a dam was built and the waters of City Creek were turned upon the land, the work proceeded with greater success. Eight days later Colonel Markham who had been placed in charge of the plowing reported a total of fifty-three acres plowed in three lots of land. Thirteen plows and three harrows or drags had been used during the week. Thirty-six acres had been planted to buckwheat, corn, oats, potatoes, beans, and garden seeds. Three acres of corn was already above the ground and some beans and potatoes were beginning to show. By August tenth, eighty-three acres had been plowed and planted, and the men and teams released to other labors. Little was obtained from these plantings. Cattle consumed all, including potato vines. Nevertheless, a supply of small potatoes from the size of a pea to that of a marble was harvested and successfully used for seed the next season. Meanwhile plans for a city were laid after the pattern of the Prophet Joseph's plat of Zion City, with streets eight rods wide and blocks of ten acres. Under direction of members of the Twelve, who had been sustained by a vote of the camp to act as a supervising committee, Orson Pratt and Henry G. Sherwood, using instruments that had been brought from abroad by John Taylor, completed in eighteen days the survey known today as Plat A. With the planting of vegetables well advanced, and while the survey continued, attention was turned to the provision of shelter. The presence of Indians in the Valley prompted the construction of a fort. One of the ten-acre squares, now the Pioneer Park, was selected for this purpose. Obtaining building materials presented a new problem. East of the Missouri River timber had been so plentiful that land had frequently to be cleared for farming. The construction of a house was relatively a simple matter. But there was no timber in the Salt Lake Valley.
437
438
There were supplies in the canyons, at distances of five to twenty-five miles, but to get at these in quantity would require a good deal of road building. In Winter Quarters some houses had been built of sod. Even this was not available. The grasses of arid lands are too thin to hold the soil together. A little west of the site selected for the fort extensive clay-beds were found. It was therefore decided to construct the fort of logs and adobes, the making of which had probably been learned from the Mexicans by the Battalion boys. At this time the Mormon colony numbered about 400, comprising, in addition to the pioneer company of 148, a company of Mississippi Saints that had wintered at Pueblo and many members of the Mormon Battalion who had been detached on account of illness and sent back to Pueblo. Scouts from these groups had intercepted the Pioneers, whereupon arrangements were immediately made to have them follow to the valley of the Salt Lake. This increase in numbers greatly facilitated the labors of laying the foundations of the new settlement. While some busied themselves getting out logs from the canyons, others were molding "dobies" of substantial proportions, eighteen inches long, nine inches wide, and four and one-half inches thick. On the tenth of August the actual laying of the walls of the fort began. The walls of the fort "were twenty-seven inches thick and nine feet high on the outer side. It was built as a construction of huts joined together in rectangular form around the outside of the ten acres on which it stood. The east side was built of logs, and the three other sides of adobe walls. "The roofs slanted but slightly inward,
 
and were made of brush covered with earth. Each house had a loophole facing the outside and a door and windows facing the interior. The main entrances, which were on the east and west sides of the stockade, were carefully guarded by heavy gates, which were locked at night." In the construction of these houses the Church leaders labored with the rest when conditions permitted. Brigham Young started four houses (rooms); Heber C. Kimball, five; Willard Richards, two; and so forth, around the square. After the departure of the Pioneers at the end of August to return to Winter Quarters, the work on the dwellings was continued by those left behind and the large companies that arrived during the late fall. Six months later it was officially reported that 423 houses had been constructed. The original fort was extended north and south by the addition of other squares. Houses were fourteen feet wide and up to eighteen feet in length. The provision of a supply of breadstuffs to become available when the temporary stocks brought across the plains should become exhausted next occupied the attention of the leaders. It was planned to break up hundreds of acres to be planted to grain within a common enclosure. The fencing of individual holdings would have been impossible. The plowing, it was decided, would be deferred until the arrival of the hundreds of Saints expected within a few weeks, when more teams, equipment, and labor would become available and when the ground would be moist with fall rains. "I would rather," said President Young, "fence a block of thousand acres and have a crop, than plant a hundred acres for the cattle to destroy."
THE SETTLEMENT OF SALT LAKE VALLEY
WITH customary foresight the Church leaders before returning to Winter Quarters to arrange for the bringing of their families and others of the Saints to the Valley, anticipated the need for local government. The pattern already existed, one to which the Church members were accustomed. At a conference on August 22, it was proposed and generally agreed to that there be appointed a local presidency of three, and a high council of twelve. The appointive power rested with the Twelve, but as they were not sure of the personnel of the companies then on the plains, they chose to defer the appointments until that information could be had. On the twenty-sixth of August, a little more than a month after their arrival in Salt Lake Valley, the Church leaders departed for Winter Quarters with a party comprising 108 men. On their way eastward they met over 1500 Saints moving toward the Valley under the leadership of John Smith, Parley P. Pratt, and John Taylor, by whom they sent an epistle setting forth in detail the wishes of the Church authorities in regard to the government and activities of the colony until they should themselves return the following season. In this interesting document, John Smith was nominated to be president, and though he was given the right to choose his counselors, Charles C. Rich and John Young were suggested. Members of the High Council were nominated. The High Council was charged with the duty of passing and enforcing laws and ordinances essential to the peace, prosperity, and protection of the colony. It was urged that the fort be completed, and the suggestion
439
was offered that the land within the fort be allotted to the respective families for the planting of gardens. The entire document is characteristic of the care with which Mormon leaders directed the temporal affairs of their people. The companies to whom these instructions were given reached the Valley late in September and increased the population to 1671 souls. The organization suggested was effected at a conference held on the first Sunday in October. As though nature were conspiring to assist the colonists to become firmly rooted in the new environment, the first winter proved most favorable. Mild temperatures prevailed and there were no accumulations of deep snows. Livestock flourished on the open range. Food for the winter had been brought across the plains, the cereals in the wagons and the meat on the hoof. Though the crops planted in July and August had failed, the most careful rationing of supplies enabled the colonies to subsist through the winter. Meanwhile they worked diligently at putting in grain. A field was marked off for plow land and while some plowed others fenced. Members of the Council and others whose time was absorbed in public service were each allotted fifteen acres of plowed land. The enclosure of 5133 acres included about three-fifths of the city plat (Plat A) and the lands south and east of the city for several miles. In this field 872 acres were sown to winter wheat, the balance being reserved for spring and summer crops. In due season extensive plantings of corn, buckwheat, potatoes, and a variety of vegetables were grown.
440
An interesting and effective organization for carrying on the agricultural work was developed. The control units during the journey on the plains had been arranged in military order. The large companies were divided into hundreds, each hundred into fifties, and each fifty into tens. Over each unit was a captain. Parley P. Pratt, at a conference, October 24, suggested the maintenance of the units and the division of the lands to them for cultivation. There must have been forty or fifty tens in the colony. To each ten and to each member of the ten was appointed as much land as could be successfully cared for with available man power and equipment. The average was not less than ten acres to the man. While the farmers were busy plowing, mechanics were occupied with other important activities. Charles Crismon has the honor of erecting the first grist mill, a hastily constructed affair put together to grind the grain set aside for use the first winter. One sawmill in operation and two or three others under construction were reported by the Presidency of the High Council in March, 1848. The manufacture of kitchen chairs, tables, beds, tubs, churns, and a few bureaus was noted. The various building operations requiring wood, fences, cabins, bridges, and furniture, together with the cuttings for fuel, made a serious draft on the nearest supplies of timber. Trails were soon made to limited supplies in Red Butte Canyon, six miles east, and at the mouth of Little Cottonwood, about twenty miles southeast of the Pioneer camp. Cutting was carefully regulated by order of the High Council. A Tim-
 
ber, Fuel, and Pole Committee was appointed. This committee took an inventory of wood and timber supplies on February 10, 1848, and reported as on hand, 202 loads of wood, 2696 fence poles, 196 covering poles, 306 house logs, and 118 saw logs. A propitious winter was followed by an ominous spring. Trouble began with the cold and storms in March, which were hard to endure after the mild weather of mid-winter. At the end of the month a foot of snow fell, and when it thawed the water ran through the flat-roofed houses and drenched clothes and bedding. The cold retarded the growth of grains and some began to fear crop failure. "We trust," writes Isaac Haight in his diary, "that the Lord who brought us here, will sustain us and not permit us to perish." Conditions were brighter a month later, but not for long. Killing frosts occurred twice in May, destroying the buckwheat and most of the garden crops, beans, melons, cucumbers, pumpkins, squash. June brought drought and crickets—crickets in such numbers that the crops disappeared before their devouring hunger at an alarming rate until the gulls came to augment the efforts of the desperate Saints in saving the grain. Before the harvest, however, real privation occurred. Food supplies were rigidly rationed and augmented by thistle and sego roots and rawhide soup. Special provision was made for the destitute through the appointment, on the authority of the High Council, of two bishops, Edward Hunter and Tarleton Lewis, to receive donations, buy, sell, exchange, and distribute, so that none would starve. Many who had run
THE SETTLEMENT OF SALT LAKE VALLEY
short of food supplies had brought a variety of articles—utensils, harnesses, extra clothing, books—which were exchanged through the bishops for food. Harvesting of grain began the middle of July. Though the yield was far below original expectations, the Saints acknowledged their gratitude in a day of feasting and thanksgiving. The celebration is thus described by a participant: "On the tenth of August we held a public feast under a bowery in the center of our fort. This was called a harvest feast; we partook freely of a rich variety of bread, butter, cheese, cakes, pastry, green corn, melons, and almost every variety of vegetable. Large sheaves of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and other productions were hoisted on poles for public exhibition, and there was prayer and thanksgiving, congratulations, songs, speeches, music, dancing, smiling faces, and merry hearts. In short, it was a great day with the people of these valleys, and long to be remembered by those who had suffered and waited anxiously for the results of a first effort to redeem the interior deserts of America, and to make her hitherto unknown solitudes 'blossom as the rose.'"
THE most significant event of the second year was the arrival of the leader Brigham Young and his company of immigrants on September 20, 1848, followed shortly by other companies under Heber C. Kimball, Amasa M. Lyman, and Willard Richards. A period of vigorous activity at once ensued. City lots and farm lands were distributed by lot and many of the Saints moved out of the fort to build on their individual holdings. By October settlements had extended several miles out from Salt Lake City. The second winter was a trying one. Killing frosts, drought, and destruction by cattle, resulted in
441
serious crop shortage. The brethren had been insufficient in numbers to fight crickets, irrigate crops, and fence the farm lands that had been planted. Low temperatures and severe storms found the people inadequately prepared, especially for the care of the cattle. Misled by the open winter of the preceding year, and under pressure of heavy labors to provide houses and prepare lands for farming, little feed had been stored. The cattle had a hard time of it, but came through surprisingly well. There was also a spring scarcity of breadstuffs. An inventory taken by the bishops in early February, 1849, revealed about three-fourths of a pound per day for each person until July 5. Resort to sego and thistle tops again became general. In June, no corn or wheat was available at any price, and potatoes had gone off the market at twenty dollars a bushel. Public works were pushed vigorously in 1849. Work had begun on the Council House. Roads were built and bridges constructed over the streams. The city had been divided into nineteen wards, and under the direction of the bishops each ward was enclosed "on the plan of a big field." Irrigation ditches were run to the respective wards to provide for gardens and orchards on the spacious city lots. The following picture of how things appeared to a visitor in mid-summer 1849, is worth quoting: "The company of gold-diggers which I have the honor to command arrived here on the third instance.... We descended the last mountain by a passage excessively steep and abrupt, and continued our gradual descent through a narrow canyon for five or six miles, when suddenly emerging from the pass, an extensive and cultivated
442
valley opened before us, at the same instant that we caught a glimpse of the distant bosom of the Great Salt Lake, which lay expanded before us to the westward, at the distance of some twenty miles.... Extensive herds of cattle, horses, and sheep, were grazing in every direction.... Passing over some miles of pasture land, we at length found ourselves in a broad and fenced street, extending westward in a straight line for several miles. Houses of sun-dried brick were thickly clustered in the vale before us, some thousands in number and occupying a spot about as large as the city of New York. They were mostly small, one story high, and perhaps not more than one occupying an acre of land. "The whole space for miles, excepting the streets and houses, was in a high state of cultivation. Fields of yellow wheat stood waiting for the harvest, and Indian corn, potatoes, oats, flax, and all kinds of garden vegetables, were growing in profusion, and seemed about in the same state of forwardness as in the same latitude in the States... We passed on amid scenes like these, expecting every moment to come to some commercial center, some business point in this great metropolis of the mountains, but we were disappointed. No hotel, sign-post, cake and beer-shop, barber pole, market-house, grocery, provision, dry goods, or hardware store distinguished one part of the town from another, not even a bakery or mechanic's sign was anywhere discernible. "Here, then, was something new: an entire people reduced to a level, and all living by their labor—all cultivating the earth, or following some branch of physical industry. At first I thought it was an experiment, an order of things established purposely to carry out the principles of 'Socialism' or 'Mormonism.' In short, I thought it very much like Owenism personified. However, on inquiry, I found that a combination of seemingly unavoidable circumstances had produced this singular state of affairs. There were no hotels, because there had been no travel; no barbers' shops, because everyone chose to shave himself, and no one had time to shave his neighbour; no stores, because they had no goods to sell or time to traffic; no center of business, because all were too busy to make a center.
 
There was an abundance of mechanic shops, of dressmakers, milliners, and tailors, etc; but they needed no sign, nor had they time to paint or erect one, for they were crowded with business. Besides their several trades, all must cultivate the land, or die; for the country was new, and no cultivation but their own within a thousand miles. Everyone had his own lot, and built on it; everyone cultivated it, and perhaps a small farm in the distance. "And the strangest of all was, that this great city, extending over several square miles, had been erected, and every house and fence made, within nine or ten months of the time of our arrival; while at the same time, good bridges were erected over the principal streams, and the country settlements extended nearly one hundred miles up and down the valley. "This territory, state, or, as some term it, 'Mormon Empire,' may justly be considered as one of the greatest prodigies of the age, and, in comparison with its age, the most gigantic of all republics in existence, being only its second year since the first seed of cultivation was planted, or the first civilized habitation commenced." As immigration continued, settlement spread out over the Valley. Colonies were led to the Cottonwood area by John Holladay and Amasa Lyman in 1848. In the same year Joseph Harker led the way "over Jordan"; Welsh converts settled at Granger in 1849. Draper and Riverton were colonized in the early "fifties." By 1852, though the population could not have exceeded 8000, Orson Hyde was saying in the October general conference: "This valley is pretty much all taken up in farms, and the wood is all used up, which requires a man to be two days in getting a cord of wood; and during that time a man often loses his cattle, which may destroy his neighbor's gardens and incur damages. Therefore, it is best to go where the neighbors are fewer, and get the best places for farms."