Vol. 28 JULY, 1941 No. 7 EDITORIAL J A. And Primary General Conferences MONG the many interesting and important activities of the Church are the general Church and auxiliary conferences. Twice each year the Church membership is privileged to meet in general conference to receive instruction and inspiration from the General Authorities. Twice each year, in connection with these conferences, the Sunday School work is given consideration. Twice each year the Relief Society conducts a general conference in the interest of its program, while each June the Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Asosciations and the Primary Association assemble their workers that their special Church assignments may be more effectively fulfilled. These conferences play a significant part in the successful conduct of the work of the Church and are far-reaching in their influence. Each of the Church auxiliary organizations has an important individual responsibility in promoting the work of the Church. 'Through their general conferences they are enabled to instruct local officers in the various phases of their programs. The needs of their various groups are pointed out, and programs are interpreted in the light of these needs. General conferences enlarge the vision of local workers and inspire them to renewed effort. While each of the auxiliary organizations has its own division of responsibility within the Church, the goal of all is the same?the building of firm, unwavering testimonies in the hearts of the people, and the advancement of the work of the Lord. All are united in the accomplishment of these great: purposes. The recent conferences conducted by the Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations and by the Primary Association merit special commendation. The vision of the general boards, their insight into the needs of their groups, their understanding of their problems, their willingness to assume their responsibilities as leaders, and their efficiency in planning their work were very evident. The devotion of the local workers was apparent in the excellent attendance and Page 472 the enthusiastic response to all programs. While all meetings held in connection with these conferences were very fine, the singing of 1600 Primary boys and girls dressed in white blouses was particularly impressive. Drawn from sixteen stakes, 800 children sang at the Saturday morning session of the Primary conference, and 800 additional children sang at the Sunday morning session. 'The stirring rendition on Saturday of "Our Great Primary" and the "Mormon Boy" delighted the large congregation, while the beautiful rendition of the hymns, "Sweet Is the Work," and "I'll Go Where You Want Me To Go" at the Sunday session was an inspiration. The Saturday evening program, presented by the M Men and Gleaners, entitled, "New Pioneers?On the March!" is also deserving of special mention. 'The production written and directed by Alvin G. Pack was designed to impress the youth of the Church with the importance of a clean life and to show them that, "contrary to the claims of liquor and tobacco companies, one need not smoke and drink to be fashionable"; that there is proof on every hand that many of the nation's most intelligent and popular people do not smoke and drink. 'The first part of the program, "Old Pioneers On the Trail,' was a radio dramatization of the coming to the Valley in 1847 of Jedediah M. Grant, father of President Heber J. Grant, and featured a cast of professional radio artists, all young Utah people who do not smoke or drink. The second part of the program, "

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1941

 Pioneers," presented the views of the nation's great abstainers ? pioneers in many fields?on the importance of abstaining from the use of alcohol and tobacco. The third part, "New Pioneers ? On the March!" presented the challenge to our youth, the "New Pioneers" of the Church. The program concluded with an impressive salute to President Heber J. Grant, who was proclaimed, "the beloved standard bearer of the 'New Pioneers.'" The obstacles, temptations, and trials in the paths of our young people today are many and grave. Sterling characters are required to conquer them. 'Those very obstacles, however, constitute a great and a glorious challenge?a challenge that is the heritage and obligation of the youth of the Church to accept. Our pioneer forefathers remained steadfast in the face of ominous difficulties. 'They achieved an almost impossible task. They did not surrender, but fought for their ideals. So the youth of the Church today, sustained by the same_ testimonies which sustained their forebears, must fight for their ideals; they must not surrender, but must meet the challenge of their day with courage and fortitude.. The mothers of the Church are grateful for the efforts of the Church auxilianes in behalf of their children _ ?the youth of the Church. The Relief Society General Board appreciates the constantly increasing spirit of cooperation that exists among the Church auxiliaries and which is bound to result in a stronger and more unified Church organization.