THE FIELD Interest On Reliof Society Wheat Srust Fund HE Presiding Bishop's Office, which holds in trust the wheat fund owned by the Relief Society in hundreds of wards and by some of the stakes, is making the annual interest payment on this fund on July 1, 1941. This interest is paid by means of check for all amounts of one dollar or more; amounts of less than one dollar will be mailed direct to Relief Society presidents in the form of postage stamps. 'The checks are drawn in favor of the Relief Societies who have ownership in the fund, but are mailed to the bishops of the wards for ward Relief Societies, and to the stake president for stake Relief Societies. All Relief Society presidents whose organizations have ownership in this fund are requested to obtain the checks from their respective bishops at once. It is requested that these checks be cashed immediately, and that the endorsement on the reverse of the checks be in the name of the Society followed by the name of the Relief Society president. All interest payments, whether received in the form of check or postage stamps, are to be entered in the Relief Society record books as interest received on wheat trust fund. Relief Society officers will note that the amount of interest received this year (1941) is slightly lower than the amount received in 1940. The lower amount is due to the conversion of additional amounts of the trust fund into wheat for storage. It is probable that further amounts will also be reinvested in wheat in the future. Therefore, inasmuch as interest is not paid on the amount which is in the form of wheat, the Societies having ownership in the fund may expect an even lower amount of interest next year for maternity and health work. The Relief Society is appreciative of the wise handling of the wheat trust fund by the Presiding Bishopric which has made it possible for the various local Societies who own an interest in the fund to receive returns in interest at the comparatively high rate which has been allowed during the past years, especially when it is realized that interest rates paid by banks have dwindled materially during this period.