A = Planned Living Vivian R. McConkie (Relief Society General Conference, General Session, April 3, 1941) HE way a man lives and thinks is his philosophy. Philosophy is the way you look at life. A philosopher makes it a business to look at life. He draws up a plan of what he sees, and we call it a philosophic system. Latter-day Saints have a revealed philosophic system?a plan of life given to them by our Heavenly Father. If we accept the Gospel as such, at the very outset we have a point of advantage in this floundering world. We have a plan to live by. The heights we climb will depend upon our understanding of and our appreciation for this restored and revealed doctrine of Christ. Where people have an abundance of understanding and appreciation for the Gospel, they are very anxious that their families and the people over whom they preside by virtue of their callings in the Church, acquire a rich understanding and an appreciation for its principles. The world is groping blindly for an acceptable philosophy. The philosophies of men are continually changing. What is acceptable one day is rejected the next, either totally or in part. Today philosophy serves as a hypothesis to build upon. Men are ever striving to arrive at truth. The difference between our plan of life and the man-made theories is that ours has been tevealed from heaven, and revealed truth is always the same. "Truth abideth forever and ever." (Doctrine and Covenants 1:39) I want to discuss planned living from the Gospel angle. Before an Page 480 effective plan of any sort is made, we must feel the need for it, and it must be worthy of consideration. This is our stimulus. It would be better to make plans to bring about desired ends before we become overwhelmed in difficulties, but a great many of us never look at life nor think about it until we are startled into it. Frequently deep and unhappy experiences set us to thinking. Before we take opportunity to stop and to think through to an answer, our daily round of duties prevents our doing so. Life goes headlong, and the next step finds us still baffled and unprepared. Nevertheless, it is never too late to put determined efforts to better use. What is the goal that we as Latter-day Saint mothers desire to achieve and to have our families achieve? The ultimate aim is to perfect ourselves and our families, that we might have eternal life; that is, become so perfect that we can live in the presence of The Eternal One. Our immediate aims are to know how to do this, and what the requirements are. How are we going to plan to accomplish it? Good planning has two important characteristics: (1) It ought to be realistic; that is, there should be agreement on exactly what results we want to get and the techniques to acquire them by a direct method. Planning that seeks important results by indirection is doomed to disappointment. (2) The planning ought to be pragmatic; that is, attention should be given to the causes and to the PLANNED LIVING effects. If such and such exists, why? It ought to involve our constant scrutiny of results, to see whether the results we are 'actually getting are the results we want to get. We shall not make much progress by merely introducing our plans, however promising the innovation. We must face continually and honestly the question of whether our plans actually work. If we measure results and check our progress, better planning will eventually result. UR children are not set in a mold of completed personality. As mothers we have definite things to do for them during their formative years. How are we to aid them in learning to live in accordance with the Gospel plan? By way of preliminaries in getting ready to plan for and to direct others, let us be sure that we are in order ourselves, and see to it that we have clear-cut, well-defined and correct ideas of just what we believe as Latter-day Saints, coupled with the courage and faith to go forward and to live according to our beliefs. If we haven't faith to live in accordance with the Gospel standards, we can never understand the principles of the Gospel. That may startle some, but it is true because the Lord has said it. The Gospel is a spiritual plan. It came to us revealed from our Heavenly Father, and it is understood by the spirit of God, which spirit does not enlighten men's minds with clarity unless their lives are in harmony. This is the plan of righteousness. If we conform to it, we are then entitled to inspiration to help us effect plans for our families. Clear vision brings forth good fruitful planning, but where we are confused in our thinking, our actions 48] will be in confusion, full of disregard and disrespect for that which the Lord requires of us. In establishing this first premise? that of having a correct and well-defined understanding of what the Church wishes us to do?let us use the scriptures as our source. 'The Lord's mind and will has been made known through the prophets, living and dead, and we will not be left to flounder if we are in a position to understand by virtue of our living in harmony. We must be definitely sure what our ideals are. Merely rejecting certain things does not solve problems. We have to affirm something. We never can arrive without being affirmative. We can break through the barriers that are obstructing the desirable goals in our homes, but we must learn how to do it. This brings us quickly to the point in question? planned living. The best plans grow out of conferring with our family groups?pooling our thoughts. Collective thinking, cooperatively administered, is very desirable. Whether we recognize the need of planned living or not, we are living, and time takes us somewhere. Where direction, guidance, and leadership are faulty, our families become accustomed to following their own inclinations, which are the natural or human desires, undisciplined. That is the plan evolving whether we like it or not, whether it be praiseworthy or otherwise. One condition or the other exists. Either there is direction or the plan is one of indirection and an undesirable way of living results. LET us analyze conditions in our homes, and see our problems 482 clearly. We can improve conditions. When we recognize a problem, it's a big step forward. We become enslaved by conditions or, I could say, somewhat unaware of the path we are traveling. Conditions never surpass the people's ideals or their understanding of how things should be. Let's scrutinize ourselves and see if our ideals, conceptions, and understanding of Gospel principles measure up. I believe there is a very close relationship between these three "harmonies" ? faith, understanding, and doing. We must recognize the interdependence that exists there. "If ye keep my commandments ye shall know of the doctrine." "I understand more than the ancients because I keep thy commandments." But, "(Remember that without faith you can do nothing." (Doctrine and Covenants 8:10.) It requires faith to keep the commandments. We do not live better than our faith permits us to live. Unity of opinion plays a potent part in a general way in planning to live, but it in no wise excuses us as individuals from knowing and doing the right things, both as individuals and as family groups. We could all be rapidly moving toward the goals that the Lord has set for us if we were all united in our opinions and if those opinions were right. I recognize the richness of strength: that comes from diversity. I'm not unmindful of that when I say that it is weakness and it is an evil when everyone has a different opinion as to what the Lord says we should do relative to such and such. If we had faith enough to accept in plainness and "oneness" what the Lord requires of us, we would be a unit of great strength. To some this 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1941

 might mean regimentation, but to me it means added power and strength. We all have our free agency and can do as we like, and we can use all of our individuality in effecting ways and means to put into practice what the Lord has said we should do. That is a big enough job for anyone. Leave the Lord's plan as it is, and use your individuality to bring it about. When the Lord says we should keep the Sabbath Day holy, or that a tithe is required of His people, and explains what He means by these principles as recorded in the scriptures and explained by our living prophets, our strength and power comes from conformance, and not from individual interpretation. An eminent sociologist said that if all mankind could agree upon a body of doctrine the world could be transformed in a generation. But the fact is that we do not agree. Because we do not agree, we cannot get beyond generalizations. We arc agreed that we want to encourage others to become good citizens; we want them to be honest, truthful and efficient, but when we come to the definitions of those qualities, we are widely divergent. We have this body of doctrine that was given to us by the Savior, but we ofttimes lack the unity of opinion and have variance of understanding, which results in confusion, disregard, and disrespect for the commandments of the Lord. OW referring to the realistic character of the plan, mentioned in the beginning of my remarks, let us check ourselves and see how qualified we are to make a plan. Let us act in conformance with what PLANNED LIVING the Lord desires us to do. If we do sO, we are spiritually armed to begin with, and we know what we wish to accomplish. Now, just a word as to the technique or methods to put this into action. You can make a workable philosophy by thinking of your own life and experiences, by recognizing conditions as they are in your homes, and by discovering yourself through the teachings of the Savior. We must have great thoughts before we can live them. The best way that we can learn to know ourselves is by doing, by actually making ourselves over every day according to a chosen plan of living?by creative self-sculpture. Splendid as ideas are, the fine art of living is to be learned only by living. Specificity plays a major part. In this realism be specific. General platitudes do not get you anything. Think in terms of your needs. One of the qualifications of effective leadership is the ability to set up stations along the way. It is the 483 ability to arrive at goals. These might be. Called the things that come out of you, and they result in the training of the family. Check on the plan of living that you are following in your homes now. Plan specific things to further your objectives. Look to the example of parents, remembering not to step out of your role of a follower of the Master. Do not begin to tamper with His teachings. Don't adjust the law to fit your way of living, but rather adjust yourselves to the requirements of the law. Analyze and adjust your way of. Living to the principles of the Gospel. It is not our prerogative to add to or to take from any of the commandments of the Lord. To serve the Lord requires faith and full acceptance of the Gospel. How well we live the Gospel reveals how deeply we have drunk of it. Thus, the philosophy by which we live shapes itself chiefly by the way in which we look at it and live it. Let us cling close to what the Lord desires us to do.