__ Literature Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 1 Introduction (Tuesday, October 21, 1941) "Humor in a world of waning beliefs reminds one of Pandora's box which, after all the evils of the gods had flown out from it upon the world, still had hope safely inside. Just as hope makes it possible for men to endure the evils of life, so humor sustains the individual in a world of disillusion." Objective: To see that humor is an integral part of literature and of life and to recognize the value of placing it in our literature study this year. Lesson Topics: 1. The relation between literature and life 2. Brief reference to the literature of the preceding courses 3. Reasons for the choice of humor for this course 4. Values of humor to Relief Society women The Relation Between Literature and Life Literature not only reflects life, but it helps to mold it. We have seen in previous lessons that literature is a record of people?their appearance, their characters, their modes of life. Through books we learn how people through the ages have lived, what they have thought and dreamed; we see wherein they have failed and triumphed in their struggles with the forces around them. But literature does more than paint a picture of life as it is. At its best, it shows us also life as it should be, as we would like to have it. In other words, there is something of the idealism toward which humanity is ever slowly striving woven into this record of life. One writer says: "Literature is a record of the best that has been thought and said in the world." Shelley once wrote: "It exceeds all imagination to conceive what would have been the moral condition of the world if the poets had never been born." Brief Reference to the Literature of Preceding Courses It has been the purpose of preceding courses in this department the clothing budget. Buy, and be prepared to tell why: 496 to help the members of the Relief Society broaden their understanding of life by sharing the experiences of great writers. Reasons For the Choice of Humor For This Course The intellectual, ethical and spiritual values found in serious literature stand out even more sharply through the contrast of elevated humorous writing. Neither life nor literature is all serious. How fortunate we are to have sunshine as well as shadow, day as well as night, joy as well as sorrow, laughter as well as tears. How fortunate we are to have humor. It is like the seasoning in our food: we wouldn't want it as an entire diet, but how much better life is for enough humor to make us relish it. Just as a meal would be flat and tasteless without salt and sugar and flavoring in the various dishes, so life would be flat and uninteresting without mirth and laughter. Since our literature lessons aim to give us broad and varied experiences, they would not be complete without the subject of humor being considered. Stephen Leacock in writing of humor says that few people know anything about it. He laments that it is left completely out of the program of self-improvement, and points out that a man will work hard on such things as a game of golf, trying to improve his stroke, but he never tries to improve his sense of humor, or practices telling a funny story or even reads a book on how to tell one?which is much more important. He says that colleges teach courses in everything else, but they have never even thought of this sub

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1941

 ject. He thinks the reason for this is that it has been taken for granted that humor either is or is not; that the art of amusing speech cannot be imparted; that the humorous outlook cannot be acquired. He says that otherwise parents would try to give their children at least a "high school standard of fun." He goes on to suggest outlines for courses in humor, stating that humor would not mean teaching people to make fun of things, but teaching them to better understand life, since humor at its highest is'a part of the interpretation of life. There are several reasons why this seems to be the logical time to introduce this phase of literature into the literature department. Three years have been devoted to a study of the novel, and some of our books have been heavy reading. Doubtless later a number of years will be devoted to some other type of serious literature. 'This alone would justify this digression to a lighter form.: There is, however, even a greater justification for the change. The tension and stress of the times through which we are passing is so great that we need to do all we can to keep ourselves from breaking under the strain of worry and dread. Humor should help to give the relief we so much need. Great tragedians realize the necessity for comic relief in their drama. After a scene of deep tragedy, the tone is shifted to humor or to a lighter mood for a short time. The mind and the heart cannot endure too much of horror and grief. Certainly there have been few acts in the drama of human existence which have had greater tension of LESSON DEPARTMENT heart and soul than the one in _progtess. There was never a more urgent need for relief from the weight of world calamity. Furthermore, humor in literature and life has at any time many values. It is a definite and dignified part of literature?as important as any other phase. It reflects a part of life; hence, a study of it helps us to have a more complete view of the world in which we live. It also serves as a weapon to help us combat difficulties. How often humor has averted tragedy, transformed a mood, or changed the tone of an entire day. In literature, considered as a whole, as in life, it serves, like the highlights in a painting, to bring out the values of the whole composition, to intensify the values of other types of literature and of other types of experience in life. Humor is often used as a very effective means of reform. Chaucer used it in his day to improve conditions. Dickens and many others have done the same. When mankind is led to laugh at its follies, it no longer persists in them. Illustrations from Dickens will make the point more clear. In practically every novel he wrote, he aimed at some social reform. In Bleak House he denounces indiscriminate foreign charities carried on by people who neglect their duties at home. He depicts Mrs. Jellaby sitting in her slovenly home, her neglected children falling downstairs and getting into all sorts of predicaments, while she spends her time writing reams of letters about poor natives thousands of miles away. He exposes the evils of private schools through such half-comic characters as Mr. Squeers, cracking 497 his cane at the wretched little boys as he sends them to "clean the w-i-nd-e-r-s." The humor, in this instance very grim, lies in the hideous incongruity of the treatment of the students by Mr. And Mrs. Squeers as compared to the parental treatment they pretend to give. Humor also serves as an effective vehicle for philosophy. Philosophic observations of the heroine of Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch, of David Harum in the novel, David Harum, and of other well-known literary characters impress us and re-. Main with us because of the humor with which they are expressed. It 'is the wit in many of the epigramatic couplets of Pope which fasten them indelibly in the memory and cause him to be so frequently quoted. Some of his couplets follow; they are witty if not wholly humorous: "We think our fathers fools, so wise we grow; No doubt our wiser sons will think us so." "?Tis with our judgment as with our watches; No two go just alike; yet each believes his own." "Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As to be hated needs but to be seen; Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace." Speaking to Silence, Pope says: "But could thou seize some tongues that now are free, How Church and State should be obliged to thee!" (The last quoted couplet has been frequently used by President Heber J. Grant. ) Values of Humor to Relief Society Women In life, humor is even more es- 498 sential to give balance and completeness than in literature. One writer declares that a nation that loses its sense of humor may continue to advance toward the over-ripeness of decadent art, but loses the virility of literary invention. Stephen Leacock says that appreciation of humor is the barbarian's first step toward civilization. It has been called the essence of the mind that distinguishes civilized man from the savage. Humor has been an essentiai element in the lives of great men. Lincoln, as will be pointed out in a later lesson, used it to relieve the tension of his strenuous administration. Before making important decisions on matters of state, he was in the habit of spending a few moments with one of his favorite humorists. To know what you are laughing at and why you laugh has been called wisdom. 'The following illustrates this statement: "Who are they bearing the bright lights?" asked the philosopher of the vision that appeared to him ina dream. "Humor and wisdom," the vision answered. "And where did they light their lamps?" "At the flame of eternal truth." People with a sense of humor are usually the cheerful, happy individuals who get more out of life than those who lack it. Their contribution to the world cannot be overestimated. Stevenson declares, 'There is no duty we so much underrate as the duty of being happy. By being happy we sow anonymous benefits upon the world which remain unknown even to ourselves, or, when they are disclosed, surprise nobody so much as the benefactor.... I do not wish to pay for tears 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1941

 anywhere but on the stage; but I am prepared to deal largely in the opposite commodity. A happy man or woman is a better thing to find than a five-pound note. He is a radiating focus of good will; and his entrance into a room is as though another candle had been lighted." So, humorous writers light candles for us as they bring happiness and laughter into days which would otherwise be grim. One such writer was Robert Burns. Burns was adored by his own countrymen not onl because he gave them, through his poetry, an outlet to their emotions, but also because he made them laugh, just as he still amuses us today. His poem, "To A Louse," has become a literary classic. TO A LOUSE (On seeing one on a lady's bonnet in church) "Ha Whaur ye gaun, ye Crowlin' ferlie? Your impudence protects you sairly, I canna say but ye strunt rarely, Tho! Faith! I fear ye dine but sparely On sic a place. "Ye ugly creepin', blastit wonner Detested, shunn'd by Saint and Sinner, How daur ye set your fit upon her? Sae fine a lady? Gae somewhere else and seek your dinner On some poor body." The poet goes on to advise the louse to go to some beggar where it may creep and crawl with "ither kindred jumping cattle in shoals and nations." 'Then he watches it as, hidden by the trimming of a lady's hat, it climbs upward. "Na, faith ye yet! Ye'll no be right till ye've got on it? The verra tapmost, tow'rin' height O' Miss's bonnet. "? Jeany, dina toss your head, LESSON DEPARTMENT An' set your beauties a' abread! Ye little kin what cursed speed The blastie's makin'! Thae winks an' finger-ends, I dread Are notice takin'. "O wad some power the giftie gie us To see ourself as ithers see us; It wad frae many a blunder free us An' foolish notion! What airs in dress an' gait Wad leave us, and ev'n devotion!" (Suggestion: If possible, have this read by someone who ls familiar with Scotch dialect. ) The humor of one of our own Church members, J. Golden Kimball, has given pleasure to thousands. He will long be remembered and loved because of the wholesome laughter his stories and his manner of telling them brought to his hearers. Huis biography, which records many of his witty sayings, is probably available to Relief Society members. Opie Reid says: "Humor is a gentle warning that keeps dignity from becoming ridiculous." Certainly everyone has seen instances that illustrate that point, situations which have been or might have been saved by a sense of humor. A biographer of Thomas Hood wrote that Hood ? was blessed with a rare gift, a sense of humor, and he continued, "A sense of humor is the best balance of all the faculties of man, the best security against the pride of knowledge and the conceits of the imagination, the strongest inducement to submit with a wise and pious patience to the vicissitudes of human existence. Humor is as immortal as truth." "Mirth is God's medicine," says 499 Henry Ward Beecher. "He who has a sense of the humorous has more than wealth." The great objective of. The course is to help the members to realize that humor is an essential part of literature and a vital element in successful and happy living; that a sense of humor is a precious and saving characteristic which can be, at least to some extent, cultivated. Problems and Projects 1. Discuss means by which the course may be made of practical value. 2. Some in the group may be interested in making a scrapbook of humor. It could include not only anecdotes and bits of humorous verse and philosophy, but references to humorous essays, fables, stories, etc. Also there might be an effort to collect humor from the community ? quaint sayings of children, traditional humorous steries of the older members of the community. If members do not care to do this as an individual activity, perhaps enough would be interested to form a committee to make such a book for the class from contributions of the interested members. Opportunity may be found for presentation of some of the choicest bits of humor collected. 3. Perhaps some members would care to write humor?verse, story, etc.?and share it with the others. 4. Discuss ways by which humor can be employed to make a happier home life for Relief Society members and their families. Have members give illustrations from personal experiences. Supplementary Reading List Carolyn Wells, An Outline of Humor. Stephen Leacock, Humor and Humanity. Stephen Leacock, Humor, Its Theory and Technique. "Laughter, Tonic for the 'Tired?Medicine for the Miserable," Hygeia 16:314-16. Fosdick, "Living For the Fun of It," American Magazine, April, 1930.