Spirituality In The Missions Mary T. Clayson Former President, Southern States Mission Relief Society SPIRITUALITY in the mission field is like a candle on a stormy night. A sudden draft may make it flicker and grow dim, but with practice and care one learns to protect its feeble flame until it shines continually, growing brighter, enlightening one's entire personality. I have seen your sons and daughters come into the mission field, and I have admired them; I have thought what a splendid job their mothers have done. They realize that they are in the mission field to acquire a firm testimony of the Gospel, and to lift up their voices to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. A testimony is something that you cannot buy, you cannot inherit; you work for it with the greatest sincerity you have ever worked for anything in your whole life?not only to gain it, but to retain it. Missionaries who come _ from homes where the standards and ideals of Mormonism are upheld, 486 and who understand the rewards and the benefits of right living, usucally slip into missionary life with ease. On the other hand, I recall a young girl in our mission field who was very self-conscious. She stayed with us for eight weeks. Her grammar was poor, and sometimes she said things which were coarse and vulgar. Of course, she did not mean to. One morning she came to me and said, ""What is wrong with me?" I said, "There is nothing wrong with you, dear, only now a part of you that should have been born twenty years ago is just coming into the world, and so you must perhaps work a little harder." She said, 'What can I do?" I told her to work and pray. "Pray!" she said. "Do not ever call on me to pray." I said, "You cannot do the work of the Lord unless you call on the Lord; He is your first companion." Later one morinng, there were about ten of us around the table. I said, ?There comes a time in the lives of most of us when we need the help of our Father and our Companion." 'Turning to this girl, I asked her to lead us in family prayer. She responded but faltered like a little kindergarten child, and I had to help her with the prayer. I am proud to say that eighteen months later she spoke in Church, and in all my life I have never heard a truer ring to a testimony nor have I felt greater spirituality. Another missionary came into the office one day who had been in the field four months. He said, "I am leaving. I am sick of it all, and I am going home." Brother Clayson was out of town. One of the other missionaries tried to reason with him, but it was of no avail. Finally, we 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1941

 telephoned Brother Clayson, and the boy promised to stay for three days until Brother Clayson could return. We prayed together, we visited with him, we did everything to make that elder see the mistake he was making, and at length we persuaded him to stay and fulfill his mission. When I saw him just before I left the mission field, he said, "Mother, I am the happiest man alive today." We had an elder come into the office one day and say, "We have received a telephone message requesting us to call on a very sick baby. Do you mind if we take the car?" When he got to the door, I said, "I am going with you," and I instinctively took some things I had used for my baby. When we arrived at the home, the sick child did not look as if it could live. The elders administered to the baby, and I did the little simple things I knew how to do, and the baby got well. I could tell many such things that are faith promoting. We may say that faith is man's family relationship to God. Not long ago we went down to the station to see a young man leave for a mission. 'There were two special cars?one car was filled with missionaries and the other car with soldiers. This thought came to me, one car is going out in the cause of peace and the other one is going out in the cause of war. May your sons, who are also my sons by right of being their mission mother, carry the testimonies they have gained in the mission field wherever they may go. May the testimony that has grown in their hearts in time fill the hearts of everyone.