By this time colonies had already (Continued on page 489)
The Daily Mail Mabel Harmer
IN one respect, at least, Saturday is a very dull day. There is only one delivery of mail, whereas on every other weekday the gray-coated letter carrier brings his bag, with its intriguing contents, to your front porch morning and afternoon. If you are fortunate enough to have a very modern home with all the latest gadgets, you don't even have to bother to go outside—thereby exposing yourself to the rigors of cold weather and your curlers to the stares of the neighbors—in order to gather up your letters. They are projected right into the privacy of the front hall by way of the clever new mail chute. If your letter is one of the thousands that are carried daily by airplane, it may have been postmarked from a distant city only a few hours before. Even if it has come by train, it has only been a matter of days since it left for its destination; whereas, once upon a time.... Those words are the time-honored beginning for a fairy story, and while we take our rapid delivery of mail very much for granted in this day, such a feat as the sending of a letter from Utah to California in approximately four hours would have come much nearer resembling a fairy story than a fact to the early-day pioneers of the West. For the first few years after the Pioneers arrived in the Great Salt Lake Valley, letters were brought by the incoming immigrant trains to those settlers who had come earlier. For instance, when Mrs. Jones, who was still back in the States, learned that the Johnson family was planning to go West, she wrote a long letter to her sister, who had left with a company the previous year, and entrusted it to the Johnsons. To be sure, she hadn't heard from her sister since the latter's departure, and had no very good idea of where she might be; but the Johnsons promised to make inquiries after they arrived in the Valley, and if they could find out where Mrs. Jones' sister had located, they would pass the letter on to someone going in that direction. The Johnsons were faithful to their trust and, in time, gave the letter to another family who were traveling to Cache Valley, where it was thought the woman now lived. By inquiring of families along the way, the sister was finally located and the letter delivered many months after it had started toward its destination. This is the true story, not of Mrs. Jones' letter, but of hundreds of others that were passed along in this fashion until some sort of regular mail service was established. Naturally much could happen in-between the times these letters were written and delivered, and there are cases on record of people writing to tell relatives of their impending arrival in the Territory and then coming in advance of the letter itself. Even such uncertain service sometimes cost a great deal; one woman wrote of having to pay $1.10 delivery charges on two letters during the winter of '48. She added, however, that she didn't mind this exorbitant rate because she was so glad to get the letters. Sending mail out of the Valley was
443
FIRST POSTOFFICE IN SALT LAKE CITY —Photograph, Courtesy Salt Lake Tribune
still a more difficult matter, as practically all of the travel was in this direction. The first letter sent out was one written by Brigham Young during August, 1847, and carried back to the Saints in Winter Quarters by Ezra Benson. It told of the safe arrival in the Valley of the original company, the conditions of the new settlement, and assured help to those who were still to come, should they be in need of it. It encouraged them to praise God for His goodness and to be of good cheer. Letters from the Valley left, necessarily, without benefit of stamps or envelopes and were usually wrapped in buckskin covers for protection and tied round and round with thongs of the same material. Dozens of letters, done up in this unique fashion, were carried East by Colonel Babbitt when he left for Washington as a delegate to Congress from the Territory of Deseret. Naturally the mail which arrived from Winter Quarters was always a source of great joy to those who had come on ahead, for many families were divided between the two places during the first few years. Late in '48 Clara Decker Young, who had been one of the three women to come with the original company, wrote Page 444° that great excitement prevailed when four men arrived in the city with 227 letters and many papers and gazettes. After the mail had once arrived in the city, the problem of distributing it still remained. In Salt Lake there was no Federal post-office until "49, but during the course of a council meeting held in the old fort in October, '47, Albert Carrington was appointed postmaster and held this position for two years. The mails were received and distributed at Church headquarters. Sometimes a list of those who might claim uncalled-for mail at the "office" would be read from the stand of the Bowery after the close of the service. In other settlements of the state, delivery might be from the general store, the Sunday meeting, or by hand of any kind neighbor who happened to be going in the right direction. The most unusual story of carrying the mail is that told by Frank E. Slaughter of Washington 'County in southern Utah, who helped to install a cable line from the top to the bottom of a 1000-foot precipice over which the mail sacks were drawn by the means of a pulley and windlass. An amusing story of early-day mail service is that of the tub in the store where everyone went through the contents until he came across his own. IN March, 1849, the first United States postoffice was established in Salt Lake City, with Joseph L. Heywood as postmaster. He served only a short time and was succeeded by Dr. Willard Richards. 'The immigrant trains were still the only means available for conveying the mails, consequently the postmaster took up his duties with the arrival THE DAILY MAIL of a company from the East and, after distributing the letters and papers, dropped them again until another company should arrive. There were a considerable number of the Saints on the Pacific Coast at this time, consisting of members of the Mormon Battalion who had remained in California and families who had taken the water route, instead of crossing the plains, and had not yet come on to Utah. To these people, Amasa M. Lyman and O. Porter Rockwell were dispatched with mail in the spring of '49. The two brethren were also instructed to preach the Gospel and look after the interests of the Church and the Saints. In 1850 a contract to carry mail from Independence, Missouri, to Salt Lake City was awarded to Samuel H. Woodsen, who in turn sublet it to Little, Hanks and Decker. They were supposed to get the mail through once a month, and they must be given credit for making heroic attempts to do so, for they drove unbroken Mexican mules over exceedingly rough roads and made _the run from Salt Lake City to Laramie in nine days without a change of animals. The following year the first Government contract to carry mail was given to John. M. Hockaday and William Liggett. They carried express as well as mail, and advanced from Mexican mules to stage coaches. They still managed to get through only once a month, at first, although after a time the run was made semi-monthly. By 1852 the population of the Territory had grown to many thousands and the Saints felt that they were justly entitled to a weekly mail 445 service. Accordingly, they sent a petition to Congress stating that while they were supposed to be getting mail once a month, more often than not a period of two months elapsed between deliveries, especially during the winter time. It was another two years before Congress finally passed an act that gave an appropriation for transcontinental mail service, and while at first the service was still only one delivery a month, the gaps were gradually closed, until by the time the contract was taken over by Ben Holladay it became, for the first time, the "daily mail." The fact that it arrived daily did not, of course, preclude the contents from having been several weeks on the way. The mail was carried in Concord stages which were built to accommodate nine passengers on the inside, and one or two on the outside with the driver, except when it was necessary to carry an armed guard. The coaches were drawn by six or eight horses and, by running both day and night, often made as much as one hundred miles in twenty-four hours. This was excellent time, but travel must have been very wearisome over the rough roads of the day in a vehicle without any springs. Mail stations were built every ten or twelve miles, consisting of substantial stone buildings with loopholes for the rifles of the Indian fighters. The horses were changed at each station, and meals were served to the passengers. In 1860 the passenger fare from Atchison, Kansas, to Salt Lake City was $250 per person. A United States senator of the day scoffed at the need for protection from Indians, ROUTE OF PONY EXPRESS declaring that "the only hostile Indians on the plains were a few kept by Ben Holladay and brought out whenever he needed a new mail appropriation or an excuse for the non-performance of duty," but it is safe to surmise that the senator never placed him— self in a position where he could test the situation firsthand. Holladay once decided to make a speed run from the Pacific Coast to Atchison, Kansas, a distance of approximately 2000 miles. He made the trip in twelve days and two hours and established a record for fast travel by stagecoach that was never excelled. The trip cost Holladay over $20,000, but it is presumed that he received that much satisfaction out of his experience. There is no record that he did it for the advertising benefits, although possibly that was not an unheard-of thing, even in his day. One not only paid high for the dubious pleasure of riding in the stagecoach, but he also risked his very life from the ever-present danger of Indian raids. At one time an east-bound stage carried a woman as | a lone passenger. During part of the journey, the horses raced madly for a spell and then stopped entirely. She looked out to discover the cause of this strange behavior and found that the driver was gone. 'There seemed to be nothing to do but Page 446 —Drawing, Courtesy Salt Lake Tribune drive the stage on to the next station, which she did. For a time, the station attendants suspected that she might have had something to do with the disappearance of the driver and held her until his body was found. It was soon learned, however, that he had been struck by an Indian's arrow, perhaps in revenge, since he was known to have mistreated the Indians. Another incident of the adventures of stagecoach travel was related by Albert D. Richardson who came West during the 50's with the Schuyler Colfax party. He wrote, "From the coach an antelope was shot, strapped on the coach and given to the keeper at the next station to add to his larder. Gray wolves gazed at us until fired at. We were a sort of traveling arsenal with two or three weapons to a man. Attacked, we should have been dangerous indeed—if not to the Indians, at least to each other. One night a huge grizzly bear was seated right in our road. His education had been sadly neglected, for, with the greatest disrespect to nation and state dignitaries, he refused to budge one inch. So we turned around and gave him a wide berth. Like the man in the story, he was bigger than us, and we forgave him." Passengers and mail never seemed to mix very well on the Concord stages. The travelers complained THE DAILY MAIL that the mail took up too much room, and the people who received the mail complained that it had been hung underneath or anywhere in order to get it out of the way and, hence, was subjected entirely too much to the mercy of the elements. At one time the state of affairs was too much to be endured in silence, and the News gave vent to the following lament: "With its usual punctuality the eastern mail arrived on Monday last about 10 a. M., but if all the mail matter was as wet and as much damaged as was the. Small portion we received, it was certainly in a deplorable condition. The bags were brought in lashed under the body of the mail wagon so as not to discommode the passengers, and in that condition they had been evidently dragged through the streams that are well known to be high at this season of the year, and consequently their content was as wet as water 447 could make it, and some of the papers were so badly worn that they were not readable. We are aware, however, that it is useless to complain." During 62 the Indians went on such a rampage of destruction that it was necessary to send guards out to insure the safe conduct of mail and passengers across the plains. Station houses were destroyed, coaches robbed, and __ passengers killed in alarming numbers along the part of the route that ran through eastern Wyoming. Frank Fuller was acting governor of the Utah Territory at the time, and he requested Lieutenant General Daniel H. Wells of the Nauvoo Legion to send out a force for the purpose of protecting the mail and passengers until the task could be taken over by United States troops. Accordingly, Col. Robert T. Burton was dispatched with thirty men, well armed and equipped, to clear 448 the plains of marauding Indians. OLD SALT LAKE HOUSE—HEADQUARTERS FOR PONY EXPRESS (Site occupied by old Salt Lake Tribune-Telegram Building, 149 South Main Street ) —Photograph, Courtesy Salt Lake Tribune They found all the stations from Green River to Deer Creek deserted, with the stock having been removed or stolen. At one station they found twenty-six mail sacks torn open and the contents scattered about. The letters had been opened and pillaged in such a ways to prove that renegade whites had been connected with the robberies. URING the year of 1860, that heroic experiment, the Pony Express, made history and created a brief period of rapid mail delivery in the lives of the Pioneers. WellsFargo had opened up a stage line to the coast on the southern route which passed through FE] Paso, Tucson, and Yuma, but left Salt Lake City very much out in the cold. Since there was a $600,000 mail subsidy involved, the settlers in the Territory of Deseret voiced their dissatisfaction loudly and promptly. The complaints reached the ears of Russell, Majors and Waddell, a company of Kansas freighters, who decided to send young lads on ponies over the central route in order to prove the greater feasibility of ponies carrying mail over that of stagecoaches. Every effort was made to insure the success of the venture. The horses used were of the highest quality, bringing a price three or four times that of the ordinary horse. Stations were built every fifteen to twenty-five miles along the route, and fresh mounts and riders were always in readiness. Altogether, there were about eighty riders and four hundred horses in the service with eight boys being kept constantly in the saddle. The riders were paid from $40 to 

 

 $100 a month and were fed and housed at the company's expense. Each was presented with a Bible by Alexander Majors and made to sign a unique pledge that he exacted from his employees for years, and which read as follows: "I do hereby swear before the great and living God that during my engagement and while I am an employee of Russell, Majors and Waddell, I will under no circumstances use profane language; that I will drink no intoxicating liquors; that I will not quarrel or fight with other employees of the firm, and that in every respect I will conduct myself honestly, be faithful to my duties, and so direct my acts as to win the confidence of my employers. So help me God." Just how faithfully this pledge was kept, there was no way of knowing, for a lone pony rider out on the plains could have given vent to considerable profanity which could have been heard by no other ears than those of the animal he rode, but it is to be supposed that the boys avoided liquor to a very large extent, for their very lives, at times, depended upon their being in the best and most alert condition. This same Majors had a contract with the Government for freighting supplies to the United States Army at Camp Floyd during the Echo Canyon war, and his memoirs written of that period make an interesting volume. The time for carrying letters to St. Joseph, Missouri, from Sacramento only once required more than ten days, which meant that the age of speed had indeed arrived. Utah was only six days: away from the eastern frontier, as far as communication was concerned, and, by means of. Pony Express and train, dispatches could be sent to the THE DAILY MAIL nation's capitol in a brief seven days. Such speed was truly breathtaking when one considered that only a decade before, the news that Deseret had been made a_ Territory reached the Pioneers some three months after Congress had passed the act. The Pony riders made an average of 250 miles in twenty-four hours, which was almost twice as fast as the stagecoach could travel. The Pony Express was rich in color and adventure, but it was a great loss to its promoters financially. Besides the enormous operating costs, the Indians frequently burned the stations and haystacks and killed the drivers and ponies. Altogether, it is estimated that the venture cost Majors and his associates somewhere 449 in the neighborhood of $100,000 during the one year of its operation; in April of '61 they sold out to Wells-Fargo. A short time afterward the telegraph lines were completed, and it was no longer necessary to go to such tremendous efforts in order to speed news across the country. Even with the telegraph in operation, however, there was still the matter of letters and newspapers to be taken care of, and the stagecoach lines continued to carry the daily mail until that momentous day in 1869 when the "Tron Horse" steamed proudly into the city of Ogden, bringing an end to that picturesque period of the covered wagon, the stagecoach and the Pony Express.