FAPPEN INGS Annie Wells Cannon Now golden summer brings her rarest offerings, For all along the fragrant way are flowers gay, While across the sapphire sky, sweetest song birds fly. THE "call of the wild" has sounded, and vacation time is here. This year all things are different. The accustomed lure to canyon haunts or forests green or sandy shores will be mostly a memory, for the need of the hour beckons to training camps, munition factories, cities of industry and commerce, where women substitute as workers, bus drivers and messengers, and in some countries it beckons even to the battlefield. DOWAGER QUEEN MARY, of England, residing now somewhere in the "West Country" still visits military hospitals, giving aid and sympathy.  JACQUELINE COCHRAN is agitating a Government school for training women pilots as teachers in the different aviation schools. She would have them classed as an auxiliary air corps for all types of training except those relating to actual combat. Many women have already received flight scholarships, among them Eleanor Fordham, a Salt Lake girl. HELEN KELLER was given a rising ovation at the golden jubilee of the General Federation of Women's Clubs this spring when fifty-six outstanding members were paid special tribute for distinguished service. Among those classified as "firsts" were Frances Perkins, first woman in a President's cabinet, Daisie Harriman, first woman minister Page 470 to Norway, and Jeanette Rankin, first congresswoman. Dorothy SHEPHERD, Utah girl connected with American Legation in Lima, Peru, is a great admirer of the beauty and graciousness of the South American women and wonders if some of their content would not add charm to our busy life in the States. SERAPIA LANERIA, 118 years old, of Phoenix, Arizona, Elizabeth Snow Call Burt, 94, of Brigham City, Utah, and Mary W. Richards, of Arizona, are three notable pioneer mothers who died this spring—women with marvelous records of service, faith, and courage. LAURA E. FINLAYSON, go, of West Jordan, and Mary Jane Meeks Pearce, go, of Taylor, Arizona, were feted and honored in their respective communities for their wonderful accomplishments. CATHERIN E VAN DYKE witnessed last month the colorful presentation of her play "Audubon." She is the first person to write a play with the great naturalist, John James Audubon, as central figure. VERA BRITTAIN'S "England's Hour," is the experience of a distinguished Englishwoman during the present time; while Phyllis Moir gives an intimate picture of England's Prime Minister in her book, "I was Winston Churchill's Private Secretary."  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Marianne C. Sharp Leona F. Wintch Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Ethel B. Andrew Pauline T. Pingree Alice B. Castleton Gertrude R. Garff Priscilla L. Evans Editor - - - - - Belle S. Spatford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman