In Mother's Hands John Henry Evans S a tree is to be known by its A fruit, just so is a mother to be known by her child, especially when that child becomes a man or a woman.. She is known, of course, not in the comparatively small sense of good or bad table manners, excellent or atrocious taste in dress, or the ability or the lack of ability to use proper language, all of which are desirable in cultivated persons, but rather in the vastly more substantial qualities of character, way of life, and the outcome of thinking and feeling and behavior. A great deal of sentiment, good enough in its place, is expressed publicly on Mothers' Day in our country, but the best tribute, and at the same time the most illuminating and understandable, would be a concrete illustration of a case where a mother exhibited her vast power in molding and shaping her child. As it happens, there is just such an instance tucked away in the Old Testament, which is a rich depository of elemental experiences of the race. Incidentally, in religious literature, especially that of the Jewish people everywhere, the women, even the mothers, are nearly always kept in the background. An illustrious exception to this is the story of Ruth, the story of Esther, and the story of Judith; but the purpose of these narratives is, apparently, not to depict character, although that is done, but instead to enforce a religious or moral truth. Perhaps the reason why women are not put into the foreground of Hebraic pictures lies in the recognition by Jewish writers of the fact set forth in our opening Page 456 sentence. For back of every man is a woman—mostly his mother—and biblical literary men must have felt that in setting forth the exploits and character of a man, they were also giving the character of his mother. This article, then, aims to tell of a notable mother as seen in the product of her painstaking care, a notable son. ABOUT thirty-six hundred years ago there lived in Egypt a woman whose name was Jochebed. She was married, her husband's name was Amram, and both were Israelites, of the tribe of Levi. At the time of our story this couple had two children, a boy named Aaron and a girl called Miriam, or Mary. Then a third child was born, another boy. Everyone knows how it happened that the Israelites were in Egypt at this time, when their home was the Land of Canaan, or Palestine as we know it today, but it is necessary here to recall the main features of their settlement in the Nile Valley. That story covers the kidnapping of Joseph, favorite son of Jacob, by his ten brothers; the sale of the boy to some Ishmaelite emigrants, and their disposition of him to Potiphar, an Official of the reigning Pharaoh; the attempt of Potiphar's wife to beguile the charming slave, and her later betrayal of him in a face-saving complaint; Joseph's imprisonment, the interpretation of two dreams of his fellow-prisoners, and his subsequent release; his spectacular rise to power and authority in the king's service; the widespread famine in Egypt and Canaan; the arrival in IN MOTHER'S HANDS Egypt of Jacob's sons, their plea for food, the final recognition of their brother by them, and the migration of the entire tribe of Israel to the land of Goshen. All this goes into the making of what is generally regarded by literary critics as the greatest short story in history. This Land of Goshen, as we learn from the sacred writer, lay on the border of Egypt, rather than in Egypt itself. An extensive pasture land where the royal cattle were driven to graze, it was assigned by Joseph, at Pharaoh's urgent solicitation, to his "brethren," since they were a pastoral folk with flocks and herds. And here the Israelites stayed, rapidly growing in prosperity and numbers, till a king arose "who knew not Joseph." I the time of our narrative, the Israelites were "in bondage" to the Egyptians, and this in spite of the fact that they were on the edge of the fertile Valley of the Nile, next to the wilderness toward the Red Sea. "And Joseph died," says the sacred writer simply, "and all his brethren, and all that generation." After that, we are picturesquely informed by the same authority, "the Children of Israel were fruitful, and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and waxed exceedingly mighty." —_Just how long this interim was and how numerous the people had become, is conjectural. At any rate, a new dynasty, it is believed, arose toward the end of the period—a dynasty "which knew not Joseph." Then the head of this new regime said, doubtless to a receptive group of yes-men: "Behold, the Children of Israel are more [numerous] and mightier than we. Come, let us deal wisely with them." 457 The "wise" measure proposed included three points, two adopted immediately and one later, when the first suggestions proved ineffective. They were: first, that the men in the Hebrew nation be conscripted into the Egyptian army, if and when the rulers of Egypt had a war with some other people; second, that all the Israelites be enslaved, "taskmasters" being appointed over them, "to afflict them with burdens"; and third, that all the male children of Israelitish wives be put to death at the time of their birth. The last measure, the execution of which was entrusted to the midwives, was adopted only after the failure of the first two, when it appeared that "the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew." Thus the Egyptians "were grieved because of the Children of Israel"—a grief that found vent in the terrible slaughter of the innocents. It was at this moment in Hebrew history that Jochebed gave birth to her third child and second son. WHEN Jochebed saw this baby, that he "was a goodly child," she determined to save him. If we read the text carefully, especially between the lines, we are forced to conclude that this woman did not engage the services of a midwife, but managed the delivery herself, with the help, perhaps, of Miriam or a domestic, employed temporarily. We are led to this conclusion partly by the fact that the Hebrew women, according to the report of the midwives to the king on being asked by him how it was that so many male children had escaped being thrown into the river, "are not as the Egyptian women, for 458 they are lively, and are delivered ere the midwives come in unto them." Accordingly, Jochebed "hid" her new baby "three months." Where and how she managed this we are not informed. It would not be difficult for a mother to picture the situation in which Jochebed found herself at this time. Her constant fear, apprehension, dread, and anguish can better be imagined than described. Her soul could not have been tortured any more if she had known that her child had been marked by destiny as one of the great figures in human history. Those must have been three months of extreme mental distress. Jochebed, however, was a tremendously resourceful woman. That is something to remember about the mother of Moses. It was not enough that her situation was desperate. Many a woman is desperate who can think of nothing effective to do in her desperation.. Although necessity is said to be the mother of invention, yet necessity is not-always fruitful. Similarly, we might conclude that Jochebed was intelligent. One does not have to be a resident of the twentieth century, nor even of the nineteenth century, to be intelligent—as some people appear to think. To be intelligent is to be able to extricate oneself from a difficult situation, to adjust oneself to environment. It means to do something instead of sitting down and crying about it. Jochebed did something. After three months, when it became impossible for her to conceal the baby any longer from the king's gestapo, she made a wicker cradle, covered it with "slime" inside and 

 

 outside so that it would be waterproof, put into it her precious baby, took it to the river at a spot where the king's daughter, with her maids, went each day for a swim, and set the ark afloat in some neighboring bulrushes, trusting in the God of Israel for the culmination. Jochebed took care, though, to learn the outcome, for we read: "And his sister stood afar off, to wit what would be done to him." This is what happened: "The daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the river; and her maidens walked along by the river's side; and when she saw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid to fetch it. And when she opened it, she saw the child: and, behold, the babe wept. And she had compassion on him, and said, "This is one of the Hebrews' children.” "Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, 'Shall I go and call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for thee?' And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, 'Go.' And the maid went and called the child's mother. And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, "Take this child away, and nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages.' And the woman took the child, and nursed it." After a while, according to an understanding between the two women, the child was turned over to the princess. How old was the baby then? We do not know. "And the child grew... And she called his name Moses... Because I drew him out of the water." Did Moses visit his mother occasionally, or even regularly? We do not know that either. But this we do know, that Jochebed had him long enough to IN MOTHER''S HANDS do a firstclass job of his education in the religion of her people. 'The princess did the rest. For Moses, reared for the most part in the palace of the king, was taught all the learning of the Egyptians, then the most learned of the nations. THE value of any statement as to Jochebed's influence over her son during his formative years depends on whether we can establish the necessary contacts between the two in this period. Let us get one point clearly in mind. It was not his education in Egyptian culture that prepared Moses for his later work. Rather it was the religion of his people, the Hebrews, that shaped his character and prepared him for the destiny that awaited him. There can be no doubt on this point. His courtly training, of course, helped to cultivate his mind, to 'discipline his intellect, to enable him to thread his way to the truth. But it was faith in the God of Israel that paved the way to the "burning bush." And this faith he somehow imbibed from his mother. "When Moses was grown," says the historian, "he went out unto his brethren, and looked on their burdens; and he spied an Egyptian smiting an Hebrew, one of his brethren. And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there was no man, he slew the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand." This is illuminating. How and where, if not from his mother, did Moses acquire such an interest in the Hebrews? This was obviously not sympathy for slaves performing their allotted tasks under the lash of a slave driver. It was sympathy for a fellow-religionist under 459 mistreatment by an enemy. Moses was, therefore, thinking not of the race to which he owed his education, but of the race to which he owed his origin and his religion. 'This accounts for his rage to a point where he could kill that enemy without compunction. Now, this fellow feeling for the Hebrews could not have sprung up overnight nor in a year. It could be the result only of what Solomon calls "training," extending over a period of years. There is reason to believe that Moses knew the history of his people, that he was acquainted with their particular brand of religion, and that he sympathized with both before his call by the Lord. While he appears to have been astonished when he received his call to deliver his people, the cause of that astonishment seems not to have been the call itself, but instead the manner in which it came; namely, the bush that burned but was not consumed. There must have been a close kinship between the anger that led to the killing of the Egyptian and the feeling that led to the acceptance of the call. Both reveal a profound understanding of and a deep faith in the mission of the Chosen People. IN addition, then, to high intelligence and resourcefulness in the mother of Moses, we now have a third quality—her deep-rooted faith in the God of her fathers, in His concern for His children, and in His power to protect and help those who put their trust in Him. This is the tap-root of the Hebrew religion— and of the Christian religion, too, for that matter. Had not Ged set apart Abraham to establish a new line through which the idea of the 460 true God might be transmitted to the world? And would He not see to it that this line was kept un-: clogged? Well, then.... There is a bare possibility that Amram and Jochebed had an inkling of their son's future work. Indeed, a tradition has come down to us to this effect. If they had such a hint, it was all the more necessary, they would think, that they should be solicitous in the matter of his religious education. And the manner 

 

 in which Jochebed's plans for his preservation in the cradle had turned out, would serve to confirm whatever feelings she had respecting his importance. God was with her. Jochebed, therefore, shines through her famous son. In her care of him she exhibited, as we have seen, keen intelligence, great resourcefulness, and extraordinary religious convictions. Does the Lord choose mothers as well as sons?