Theology and Testimony LESSON 1 Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage CHAPTER 1, INTRODUCTORY (Tuesday, October 7, 1941) 
THE following material is suggestive to class leaders and is submitted in the hope that it will assist in better class presentation of these most vital truths of the Gospel. Class leaders are urged to refer to the appendix which is found in the last section of the book. The class leaders should make. Every attempt to accomplish the following aims in their treatment of this beginning chapter. 'The second aim is an aim of the entire course. Class leaders will want always to increase interest in the doctrines of the Church as well as to stimulate a desire to live the teachings. Aims: 1. Review the knowledge of such fundamentals as: what constitutes the field of theology; the chief incidents in the life of Joseph Smith; and the facts contributing to a belief in the authenticity of the mission of Joseph Smith. 2. Increase the interest in the doctrines of our Church. In order to achieve the first aim, a direct approach may be made by selecting four members of the class to "lecture" the materials to the class, each taking about one-fourth of the class time. The chapter may Page 490 be divided into the following parts: the meaning of theology; the standard works of the Church, pp. 1-7; Joseph Smith, the Prophet, pp. 7-16; Joseph Smith's mission a fulfillment of prophecy, pp. 16-22; Joseph Smith's authority, and the doctrines he preached, pp. 22-28. The members chosen to "lecture" these topics should be especially strong in ability to speak before a group, as well as being very spiritual. They should be notified of their duties many days in advance in order that they may be adequately prepared. The second aim probably. Will be accomplished more indirectly and as a result of the excellent preparation and treatment of the materials by the lecturers. The lecture method is particularly applicable to this chapter since it takes into consideration that the class is usually unprepared in the first lesson; also the material itself is a little "disjointed" and lends itself well to treatment by several lecturers. The techniques of the lecture method have been given rather than an organization of the four speeches into outlines to be lectured LESSON DEPARTMENT from, inasmuch as the leaders should master such techniques; and also they should apply these in organizing their own personal outlines from which to speak. THE LECTURE METHOD I. The requisites to teaching by the lecture method are: A. Thorough preparation by the lecturer which consists of: 1. Selection of the aims which he wishes to accomplish by means of his lecture, 2. Gathering the most pertinent factual material that will accomplish those aims in an interesting and forceful manner. 3. Choosing of the most appropriate illustrations, anecdotes, examples, humor, phrases and so forth, to give concreteness and color to the factual materials and thereby engage the attention and excite the interest of the listeners. 4. Organization of all materials into a well-ordered, logical but brief outline from which to speak. The lecturer should be so familiar with the subject matter pertaining to his topic that he will neither need nor want more than such an outline. Too many points should not be attempted in one lecture.. Attractive presentation of the lecture by: 1. Speaking (not reading or repeating from memory) in a natural, easy, interested, personal, conversational style, to the listeners.. Assuming a comfortable and pleasing body posture. 3. Getting immediately into the lecture (or planned introduction of it) without monotonous and wasteful explanations and random remarks. 4. Adhering to the outline to the extent that the listeners will have ww 491 a clear-cut idea of the points presented. 5. Staying within the time limits set for the lecture. 6. Concluding the lecture with some sort of very brief summary of the main points, and a plea for action on the part of the audience when the lecture has for one of the aims a change in the interests, appreciations, desires or habits of the group. II. Some common abuses of the lecture method are: A. Lack of preparation on any or all points listed as necessary to thorough readiness. One has no right to seek inspiration without preceding it with the utmost efforts toward preparation. Especially is lack of adequate preparation odious when it is accompanied by acknowledgements of and explanations about it. The lecturer need not call attention to such an inadequacy?it will be obvious all too soon to his listeners. B. Reading the speech or reciting it from memory. C. Speaking in an affected or monotonous style. D. Rehashing materials that the audience knows and understands perfectly. New facts, illustrations and so forth must be brought in to support familiar materials. E. Employing the lecture method too frequently or at times when another method would be better. F. Speaking beyond the time limit ? especially if the audience is asleep already. _ If class leaders use this suggestive material in the preparation of the lesson it is urged that after the lesson has been given they check that which happened with that which was planned. In this way class leaders may become more fully aware of wherein they succeeded and where in they failed. Visiting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 1 Expressions of Faith (Tuesday, October 7, 1941) WITHOUT faith," says the author of the Epistle to the Hebrews (11:6), "it is impossible to please Him; for he that cometh to God must believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him." President Joseph F. Smith, commenting on this principle, says: "First, then, it is necessary to have faith in God. Faith is the first principle of revealed religion, the foundation of all nghteousness." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 20) This principle is one of the greatest needs of humanity. It is particularly needful today when the world is full of hate, fear, and insecurity. A deep confidence in a Heavenly Father, who loves His children and watches over them and will hear their prayers, gives a sense of spiritual security that banishes fear and forms the basis of courage and hope to meet life in all its prosperity and adversity with poise and inner peace. Faith is essential to the strongest personality. Faith is the foundation of all action.