The Bible says: "Even so, faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone." (James 2:17) A sincere faith in God and in the teachings of Page 492 Christ leads to obedience to these teachings. Jesus admonished us to love the Lord with all our hearts and our neighbor as ourselves. If all men had sufficient faith even to attempt sincerely to put this commandment into action, what a different world we would have today! Faith is not passive, but dynamic. It becomes stronger through expression. At the close of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said: "Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not; for it was founded upon a rock." (Matthew 7:24-25) Questions For Discussion 1. In what specific ways can faith be expressed? 2. Can a person have faith and never express it in words or deeds? 3. Give suggestions on how to introduce this message in the home. 4. What definite points of the subject would you wish to emphasize so as to leave an impression of them in the home visited? 5. Judged by "faith if it hath not works is dead," how can I justify my faith if I give no service? Work-and-Business Better Buymanship Lesson 1 The Consumer Movement (Tuesday, October 14, 1941) SHOPPING" has, to a large extent, replaced many older household activities. Each purchaser is confronted with the problem of locating at a fair price the article which possesses the combination of qualities that will best fit the consumer's needs. Many poor purchases are made because the consumer does not know definitely what he wishes before he goes shopping. Other problems face the consumer, such as high-pressure salesmanship, exaggerated advertising, and a lack of standardization and adequate labeling. With so many needs, how can consumers make their inadequate salaries meet all of the requirements of the modern world? With so many articles to choose from, how can they possibly choose the ones which will best fit their needs at a price they can afford to pay? Consumers are recognizing existing problems, and so we find toda numerous Organizations and millions of people engaged in fostering what is known as the "Consumers' Movement." Schools are including consumer education classes in their curriculums. | Manufacturers and _retailers have set up testing laboratories and educational divisions. Groups have been organized to exert pressure for consumer legislation. The Government has formed new agencies and included in the duties of already established departments the responsibility of aiding the consuming public. In 1937, the National Consumers and Retailers' Council was organized in an attempt to bring together consumers and retailers to work out some of the problems presenting themselves. What has caused the Consumers' Movement? Where is it headed, and what are the responsibilities of consumers? In the beginning, each home was its own manufacturing plant. Family members knew where their clothes and food came from and how they were produced. The few articles which they could not make at home were secured by a process of exchange with their neighbors. Changes came slowly, so that buying experience and knowledge of qualities and values were accumulated and passed on from one generation to the next. Later, the space widened between the maker and the user. Producers no longer had direct contact with the consumer. Salesmen and merchants asked for goods with appearance rather than performance value. The Machine Age was here with its expansion of industrial centers and a very changed pattern of life. Competition on the part of manufacturers and retailers resulted in advertising which, if not untrue, was often misleading and exaggerated. People bought unthinkingly, recklessly. It took the depression of 1929 to Page 493 494 make consumers conscious of the fact that they must buy wisely or waste money. Made more curious by the proximity of industry but lacking in knowledge of what goes into merchandise, lacking yardsticks with which to judge serviceability, consumers found themselves in the unenviable position of being unable to judge values. It was almost impossible to obtain simple, honest, and practical buying information. EVERY article includes raw materials, labor, and design, which are combined in various proportions. One material may have beauty, but little durability. One may have durability, but little beauty. Another may have both, yet all may cost the same or be of various prices depending on who is selling them, how expensive they look, and where they are being sold. But since a thing becomes the best for one person only when it fits his or her particular needs, no one except the ultimate consumer can check all points. To select the best with the money available requires the cooperation of the consumer, producer, and merchant. The consumer has acquired many poor shopping habits. She follows the prevailing mode and makes purchases without first carefully considering her needs. It is often easier and a timesaver to patronize the store that offers the most conveniences and services, without realizing that these very services increase the price of the article bein purchased. It is easy to depend on another's advice or opinion instead of using one's own judgment when making a purchase. Advertising and price rather than value exert their influence on choice. The consumer 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1941

 needs to recognize and correct these poor habits. The secret of successful buying is to judge values and to remember that an unnecessary or unsuitable garment is never inexpensive regardless of how small the amount you pay for it. However, help is needed to judge values. Touch, sight, and price are losing their usefulness. In fact, many times they may lead a person astray; and so we hear of demands made for labeling of merchandise. Honest producers ate trying to meet consumer demands, but many unscrupulous producers of poor, defective merchandise see their downfall in the labeling program ahead. Much of the labeling at the present time is too technical, some of it only half truth, and much of it is of no use. "The woman wants simple, understandable information. 'She wants to know what is in the article, how it will perform in use, and how it must be cared for." The consumer is asking for labels. Labels are being placed on merchandise, and the consumer must learn to understand and evaluate them. This promises to be the consumers' next big job. Everyone needs to recognize consumer-buying as one of his personal problems. From ten to twenty-five percent of one's earnings are spent on clothing and on textile furnishings for the house. Any saving means that this saving may be spent for other purposes. In order to be economical in this respect, the consumer needs to know how to select and buy different qualities of textiles, how to recognize the ones best adapted to his use, and how to obtain the greatest service from the LESSON DEPARTMENT fabrics and wearing apparel purchased. With these ideas in mind, the remaining lessons of this course will be so presented as to give some basic facts necessary for the undertanding, wise selection, and care of clothing, which may help to stretch 495 Suggested Activities 1. Collect advertisements from the newspapers and magazines. Analyze them as to content that would really help to determine the value of an article. 2. Each member bring to meeting an article of clothing that was a good or poor ??