Directions For Popcorn Cake And Rainbow Paper Logs (Mentioned at Relief Society General Conference, Work Department, April 2, 1941) Emma G. Phillips, President, Liberty Stake Relief Society POPCORN CAKE 24 cup white Karo corn syrup 2 tb. Vinegar 2 cups sugar 2 tb. Melted butter 24 cup boiling water 2 teas. Vanilla 2 teas. Cream of tartar Y% teas. Baking soda Bring to a boil syrup, water, vinegar, sugar and cream of tartar. Boil until it spins a good thread. Remove from fire and add baking soda, butter and vanilla. Pour this syrup over 7 quarts of popped, unsalted popcorn. Stir and pack solidly into a sponge-cake mold, preferably one with a removable bottom. Work rapidly and fill in remaining holes with popcorn until the top looks like a sponge cake. Cool, unmold and put candle in the center. The outside may be trimmed with candy hearts or gumdrops by using additional syrup. Cut like a cake and serve. Especially good for children's parties. RAINBOW PAPER LOGS 2 lbs. Rock salt 2 lbs. Copper sulphate 25 cents worth strontium nitrate (This produces a blue flame, but if a red and blue flame is desired then 25 cents worth of barium is added to the above.) Pour 2 1/2 gallons of hot water over the above ingredients. 'This solution is best prepared in a five-gallon crock jar. Prepare the newspaper by rolling each sheet of paper very tightly and tying the same. The length of the completed log would be the width of the newspaper. The secret of a good log lies in the rolling of each sheet of paper very tightly and tying. Individual rolls of paper would be finally tied all together to form the size of the log desired. The end of the finished newspaper log would then be immersed in the solution and soaked thoroughly and then reversed. The log must then be thoroughly dried before it will be ready to burn in the fireplace. Page 508 YEAR ONCONDITIONAL GUARANTEE... ON COMPLETE REFRIGERATING SYSTEM Only the GAS REFRIGERATOR Offers you this protection STAYS SILENT LASTS LONGER See the beautiful new models