The Relief Society Magazine AUGUST 1969 uh wre —— \ od 7 in ri A ge tt MUP eS aii The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: CLIMATE FOR LILIES There is a climate for lilies—in the tomorrows, In a plain, in the fertile loams of the future, In the gray bestowal of rain and intermittent sun, Lavish on the plain. There will be the pale burgundy of buds, The bloom with its trilogy of petals, Its triumvirate of gold. There is that next of summers, With trine of dreams and gold of hopes, And pale, pure satin Spilling gold from heart of gold. Though wind is a wall between, listen... A plea on the prairie strives Over wood fences weathered to pewter, Along the sea with its green, curling leaf of wave: After the winter of want There is a climate for lilies In tomorrow with its tool in hand And a long road leading there. —Dorothy J. Roberts Bernkastelkues on the Mosel River, Germany Transparency by Three Lions Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Sego Lily in the Desert Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 561 I have read the serial ''Welcome the Task'' by Michele Bartmess (concluded in the June Magazine) and enjoyed it very much. I have also enjoyed seeing the lovely poems by Pearle M. Olsen (see the Magazine for April and June 1969, and other issues). Sister Olsen's poetry gives me inspiration to keep writing myself. Wilma Morley Despain, Centerfield, Utah I would like to tell you how much I have enjoyed my year's subscription to the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. I have been a member of the Church abouf two years. I am happy that my husband has renewed my subscription to the Magazine, and I hope I don't miss any of the wonderful stories and articles in the future. I first became acquainted with the Magazine by receiving a copy from a Latter-day Saint woman, and now I am always waiting for the next issue to come. I have never enjoyed any Magazine as much as I have this one. Jean Smith, Le Roy, Illinois Welcome Relief Society Magazine! How I have missed you the past three months. Not your fault, I know, but what a joy it was to see you back in my mail box again and to know that once more my friend had arrived—this time three together. How wonderful our membership in Relief Society is. How blessed we are as wives and mothers to have the privilege of walking beside the priesthood of God. How good it is to be guided by the Magazine. I enjoyed the article on the new Giant System in genealogical research. Too often this work is left to a later date. To bring it to life out of the Magazine can help us to be mindful of our callings as missionaries for our dead. I find great joy in doing this work (see the Magazine for March 1969). Alvina Shore, Solihull, Warwickshire, England Thanks so much for The Relief Society Magazine. -I always enjoy it and the lessons it gives to us. I want to thank you especially for the story ''Mama and the Teddy Bear'' by Lael J. Littke, in the April issue. I am also very hard-headed about accepting help from others, and since reading this story I have been striving to overcome this fault. With the inspiration received from this story, and much help from my Heavenly Father, I feel that I am making progress. It has been a wonderful experience learning to receive, and I thank the Magazine and Sister Littke for helping me to develop this quality. Janie Cooks, Kansas City, Missouri The Relief Society Magazine has been a source of inspiration and aid to many of our young members. Many are attending Relief Society for the first time. We feel the greatest gift one could give a loved one away from home is a subscription to this gem of a Magazine. The articles are adaptable to all situations and needs. Margaret Perry, President, Junction City Branch Relief Society, Junction City, Kansas The reason I am writing is because I have in my hands a copy of The Relief Society Magazine for January 1968 which was given me by Elder Winston Palmer. As I thumbed through the Magazine I marveled at the rich reading material, the recipes for the kitchen, the stories and reports of activities provided for the sisters of Relief Society. Elder Arturo Arroyo, Los Ralos, Provincia de Tucuman, Argentina 562 

The Relief Society Magazine 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year: 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Bright Prelude Margaret B. Shomaker) ===
Beauty beyond thought Bright prelude Lesson Department New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Of reality, — "a: Zone land2 _._.5 one5 -~___. F Linger, Zone3.__.---.60 Zone6 - _ 85 Breathe aes Zonya. _ 95 And blossom. Zone8._.--1.05 —Margaret B. Shomaker a —_— 7 PESERET F—RPEws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Travel Agency 1970 Tours MEXICO Only $359 from Provo, Utah Includes entertainment, sightseeing, and ocean cruise Early June 1969—February 1970 January 16 — 24 days — Yucatan, Oaxaca, Veracruz, Mexico City, Mazatlan, Guadalajara, Acapulco, Taxco — $499 January 22—12 days February 20—17 days,$359 February 22—10 days HAWAII CANADIAN TOKYO WORLD'S four islands NORTH-WEST FAIR AND ORIENT only $389 Special rates for groups ERMA & ARNOLD WHITE — YOUR ''TRAV-A-LEADERS'' Write: 1795 East 3170 South © Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 © Phone: 484-9752 = Pg 639 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and. Zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 103 102 99 98 97 96 95 Mrs. Annie Catherine Ericksen Benson Logan, Utah Mrs. Sarah Luella Scovil Hendricksen Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Jemima Chelnecha Damron Barron Inkom, Idaho Mrs. Josephine P. Workman Fawcett St. George, Utah Mrs. Evelyn Cluff McDonald Ogden, Utah Mrs. Emma Wickham Dunkley 'Preston, Idaho Mrs. Gustella Wilkins Larson Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Olivia Malmquist Sandberg Montebello, Catifornia 93 Mrs. 'Nettie Allred Asay Boyce Powell, Wyoming Mrs. Ida May Briles Heryford Red Bluff, California Mrs. Mary Foster Jarrell Lapoint, Utah Mrs. Jane Agar Lawton Brainerd, Minnesota Mrs. Millesant Wheelock Wilson Gillette, Wyoming 92 91 90 Mrs. Louise Neilsen Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margaret McKinley Jensen Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Charlotte Norris Wonnacott Long Beach, California 'Mrs. Elizabeth Ajax Tooele, Utah Mrs. Minerva Olive Allen Biggs Draper, Utah Mrs. Ellen Rigby Brown Centerville, Utah Mrs. Rosa Dale Ashcraft Hudson Filer, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth N. Latham Scottsdale, Arizona Mrs. Marion Nettie Bows Montgomery Twin Falls, idaho Mrs. Margaret Ann Turner Worley Wellington, Utah Mrs. Josephine Larson Hunter American Fork, Utah Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Vogel Adams Martin Sandy, Utah Mrs. Lavina Arsula Spencer Olsen Jerome, Idaho Mrs. Rachel King Stutzneggar Manti, Utah Mrs. Carrie Marie Nielsen Larsen _ Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. June Veach Burt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Agnes Ellen Ambler Young Coalville, Utah Order Now For Delivery When Ready OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Volume 5 $3.25 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas The Relief Society's Cultural Refinement course for 1969-70 will be taken from Out of the Best Books, Volume 5. The theme for this volume is "Community Responsibility.' Selected from the world's greatest literature, you may learn more about The Role of Education The Meaning of Freedom The Power of Work and The Use of Leisure and many other subjects. Volume 5 will NOT be available until mid-September, but ORDERS PLACED NOW will be filled in the sequence received. SEND ORDERS NOW! Postage will be paid for SURFACE MAIL anywhere in the world. Customer must pay for AIRMAIL requests. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me copies of OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Vol. 5 MerelCost$ i.I enclose check [] money order (] Charge established account [] Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Aug. R. S. Mag.

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (1 segments, 16,392 chars) ===

M. In the Tabernacle on Temple Square. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, October 1, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning, and the Stake Board Meeting Thursday afternoon, October 2, is limited to stake board members and mission district officers. A reception to which the four stake board executive officers and mission executive officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, October 1, from 7 to 10 p. M. In the Relief Society Building. Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet Out of the Best Books, Volume 5: Community Responsibility, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, for use with cultural refinement lessons for 1969-70, is available from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, and at all other Deseret Book Company outlets, at a cost of $3.25, postpaid regular mail. Overseas orders should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges where air mail service is desired. (See Deseret Book Company advertisement.) A teaching aid packet is available for the cultural refinement class leaders. It will contain four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces (printed in the June and September 1969 color sections of the Magazines) to be used with cultural refinement lessons 2, 3, 5, and 6, as designated. It will also contain a 12'' 33% rpm record of the musical selections to be used with cultural refinement lessons, 1, 4, and 7. The kit is available from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or at the Deseret Book Company branches in Ogden, Utah the Cottonwood Mall in Salt Lake City, Utah, or Orange California, at a cost of $3.50 plus 30 cents postage for third class mailing. Overseas should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges, approximate weight 1 Ib. (See advertisement page 637.) RO SIX OF US These treasures, gifts the heart can't jettison, (The six of us being six, yet seeming one, Working together, having time to play Where orchard grass and wild sunflowers sway). Comprise a wealth that years cannot consume. (Our garden has geraniums in bloom, And fruitful trees we planted long ago— They shade us now and sing when soft winds blow.) For time rusts neither joy nor love's largess: (Good friends, good books, a challenge, some success, The chance to be together, sun to sun, The six of us being six, yet being one.) —Maxine Jennings 583 a w The sounds of the radio banged into Cally's ears as she tried to remember what came next in her pancake recipe. The baby was crying to be picked up, and her husband was calling for a clean towel. The rain beat a heavy tempo against the window; gray clouds pressed a damper on any cheerful thoughts that might have entered her mind. Over the din she heard the radio announcer presenting the local weatherman for his report and forecast. "Tt's a beautiful day in Fremont County!" he began. "At 7:00 this morning, 45 hundredths of an inch of precipitation...." Click! Cally couldn't bear hearing anyone being cheerful about this muggy weather. "He must be some kind of nut," she muttered. At least now with the radio off there was less competition for her attention. She finally got her husband out the door, the 584 baby fed, the dishes done, and the bed made. She had an awful temptation to climb back into bed, but wisdom and good sense beat back her heavy eyelids, and she smoothed the bedspread over the pillows. "A beautiful day indeed!" she muttered as she settled into her daily routine. The phone rang. "Is this the Glen MacMillan residence?" a man's voice asked. "Yes — this is Cally MacMillan." "Mrs. MacMillan, your husband has been in an automobile accident and has been injured. The ambulance is taking him to City Memorial Hospital now. Can you meet us there?" Cally's heart fell to her feet and she frozein shock. "Mrs. MacMillan?" The man's voice seemed twenty miles away. Cally had visions of her husband strapped on a stretcher in a whining ambulance. The man's voice reached her again: "If you have no transportation, a squad car can pick you up." Reality flooded over Cally in a wave of nausea. "Oh — yes — please — Glen was driving our car — is he seriously injured? Is he all right? Please tell me!" Cally's panic spread to her voice. The man sounded more quiet and understanding than before. "I'm sorry, I don't know. The driver of the other car has only some cuts and bruises. A child ran in front of the other man, he swerved and struck the driver's door of your car. Your husband had immediate medical attention, so he's in good hands. We'll pick you up in about ten minutes." Click. Cally fell back against the wall.. She felt like crying but the tears wouldn't come. Her mouth was dry and her feet felt like lead. Her jumbled thoughts even included regrets of ever having married—it would have _prevented so much pain, sorrow, and difficulty. The baby's wail penetrated the shocked trance and brought her back to the cold truth of reality. Cally lifted the receiver again and shakily dialed the number of her neighbor. "Hello, Miriam? This is Cally. Listen, Miriam, I need help. Could you take the baby for awhile? Glen's been in an accident and I've got to go. Oh, thanks—she's in bed and should sleep soon. No, they're coming to get me, but thanks. See you in a minute. Bye." Cally was surprised at her calm as she assembled baby food and dishes so Miriam would have no difficulty finding something The Weather Report for the baby's meals. Miriam and the police car arrived simultaneously, so Cally grabbed her raincoat, gave a brave smile to her friend's encouraging embrace, and stumbled into the rain. The typical hospital odor brought back to Cally's mind that her husband was _ lying somewhere within, unconscious, maybe dying. Panic once again overwhelmed her. She had hoped to be allowed to be with him, but he was in the emergency room. She was shown to what would be his room. The second hand on the clock seemed to take at least five minutes to complete each cycle around the clock. A doctor leaned into the room and glanced around. "Are you Mrs. MacMillan?" "Yes." "Please come with me." Cally followed him to a small office. "Mrs. MacMillan, your husband has been seriously injured. It is imperative that he undergo immediate surgery in order to save his life. We need your permission to perform this surgery." He took a form from a drawer and pushed it toward her. "If you'll sign this standard form, we'll proceed immediately. This explains that we have your permission to do what we feel is necessary even though this action might result in the death of your husband." "Death?" Cally didn't want her husband to die—and Cally's dulled reasoning abilities heard this man asking her permission to do something to Glen which might result in his death. "Mrs. MacMillan your husband has very little chance of living if we do not operate. This is just a legal precaution to pro- 

585 August 1969

 tect the hospital and doctors. Please sign it." She took the pen and signed her name. The printing was hazy through her tears as her emotions finally found vent. There were no violent sobs or cries—only one or two tears sliding down her cheeks. The doctor was gentle as he touched her shoulder, signaling that they must hurry. He escorted her back to Glen's empty room, then hurried away. Cc ally stood at the window and watched the rain continue to pelt the earth. It was the kind of drizzle that could—and probably would—go on all day. The gray ceiling of clouds seemed oppressively low. The doctor had told her that it would be at least an hour and a half before she could have any word. She walked over and closed the door. She didn't like the sounds of people walking and talking as if nothing was wrong. The helplessness of her situation weighed heavily upon her. Cally could only sit and stare at the rain. When the door opened again, Cally didn't hear it, because she was asleep. Glen's bed was rolled in, accompanied by nurses and aides who also wheeled in the standard, bearing life-sustaining blood, liquids, and nourishment. Glen's eyes were closed, too. His head and one hand were bandaged. You couldn't see his chest where broken ribs were held in place with adhesive bandages. There were no other visible cuts or bruises—one wouldn't have thought this man had been near death. Finally, the room was left quiet with only three occupants: one stood and watched; 586 one slept in exhaustive fear, the other in drugged and mercifully painless sleep. Cally, in her subconscious, sensed someone in the room. Her eyes opened, though she couldn't quite place where she was or why. 'She saw the clock—then remembered. And it had been nearly three hours since Glen had been taken to surgery. She panicked, then saw the nurse standing near the bed. "Oh! How is he?" Cally hurried to the bed and felt relief to see that Glen looked all right. "We don't know yet, Mrs. MacMillan. We won't really know for twelve to eighteen hours or more. Everything indicates that the surgery was successful, but we'll have to wait and see." "But what's wrong—where and how badly was he hurt?" "He was apparently hit almost directly. His ribs have been set and will be fine. Our worry is that brain damage might have resulted from the pressure of the blows on the top and side of his head. There may be some paralysis and speech impairment. But he is out of danger, though his condition is listed as_ serious. The doctor said that he should sleep for another four or five hours. So you may go home if you wish and return around seven this evening. You may see him then, though other visitors should be discouraged." The cold efficiency of the nurse's recitation helped Cally to keep the tears under control. She put on her coat and left the room, feeling a little dazed at what she had just been told. When she reached the exit, she realized she had no transportation. She went to the desk and waited for the receptionist to notice her. As she waited, Bishop Dale came down the corridor. "Well, hello Cally. Baby sick?" Apparently he didn't know about Glen. "Oh, bishop, Glen's hurt. The baby's home with Miriam. 1 I." and Cally fell into his arms and sobbed. He led her to a chair and helped her down. She finally controlled her sobs and tried to wipe her nose with her sleeve. Bishop Dale handed her a handkerchief and sat on the chair next to hers. "Can I help, Cally? Do you need a ride?" "Please—yes. And." Cally began to have some thoughts she realized she should have had hours earlier. "... Could you— would you administer to Glen?" she almost whispered her request. "Of course, Cally, I'll get another of the brethren and we'll come right up. Come on. I'll take you home." "T can't come back until seven. Could you come then?" Bishop Dale said he could. Cally spent the next long hours at home, waiting. Miriam had taken the baby out, so the house was empty. Too empty. Too quiet. She turned on the radio. The 5:00 news was just finishing, and the weather report was beginning. "It's a beautiful day in Fremont County!" Then click! Cally couldn't stand it. Anyone could see it was raining. The man must not have looked outside. It was a terribly miserable day. At ten minutes before seven, Cally, Bishop Dale, and Brother The Weather Report Arlin met at the hospital.. A call to the hospital that afternoon had cleared the bishop and his companion for a_ short visit. Glen was awake but still under too much sedation to respond to his visitors. The brethren administered to Glen. Cally could feel the Spirit of the Lord present and felt strangely at ease. After they left, she knelt by Glen's bed and offered a tearful prayer of her own.: DO ear Father in heaven, please help Glen to recover. Please don't let him be crippled or unable to think. Please restore his health. Thou knowest the love we share—of our efforts to live in accordance with thy will. Please, please remember his faithfulness and bless him with complete recovery. If they be thy will, I pray for these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen." Cally continued to kneel and watch Glen, her face close to his. She took his uninjured hand in both of hers. She felt her heart tug as she realized how much she loved him. A nurse opened the door and asked Cally to step outside to see the doctor. Once again she sat in the cramped little office. Afraid of hearing the worst, Cally asked no questions. She waited for the doctor to turn to her. "Mrs. MacMillan," he shuffled some folders on his desk to find the right one, "your husband shows good signs of complete recovery. He's been too heavily sedated to make accurate tests, so we won't really know for awhile. He has about a seventy per cent chance of complete recovery." 

587 August 1969

 "Doctor," Cally interrupted him before he could go on, "if Glen doesn't recover, will he — uh — well, what will be wrong with him?" Cally's fear was obvious in her voice and face. She twisted the handkerchief in her hands. "Possible brain damage which could impair sight, speech, hearing and, to a limited degree, intelligence. More complete tests can be made after we see how he has responded to surgery. I don't want to raise any false hopes, so [ll just tell you that if he recognizes people and asks or answers questions coherently, then that's a good sign. You may visit him again around ten tomorrow morning. We_ should know by then. Cally waited for further information but apparently the doctor had terminated the interview. The bishop, having remembered that Cally had no transportation, was waiting for her in the lobby. She gratefully accepted a ride. Ten o'clock tomorrow morning and she would know. How does one go about reorganizing one's life overnight? Cally slept fitfully, grateful at least that the baby was still at Miriam's. Bless her, Miriam had offered her car for tomorrow. Friends were surely wonderful. In fear and anxiety, Cally cried herself to sleep. She arrived at the hospital before ten—the morning had gone far too slowly. It was gray and raining again. The radio had been no help either: there was news of wars and rumors of wars and tornados and earthquakes in diverse places. The 588 weatherman was there with his usual "It's a beautiful day in Fremont County!" Cally failed to see the beauty of it. Glen's door was closed, but the nurse told Cally she could go in. The curtains were open, but it was dark in the room, reflecting the weather outside. Cally closed the door behind her; she feared the moments to come, and she wanted to be alone with her husband. How would he be? Glen was asleep, so Cally brought her chair close to the bed and watched him. His breathing was regular and his color good. The sound of the steady drizzle outside made Cally oblivious of passing time as she waited the verdict on the life of her husband. Though not verbalized, a prayer hung in her heart, and she waited. Glen stirred and his eyelids fluttered. His glance darted around the unfamiliar surroundings. Bewilderment showed on his face, and fear gripped at Cally's throat. "Oh, please, God!" she gasped. The sound from Cally drew his attention toward her, and his eyes focused slowly on her face. The world seemed to stand still as Cally waited and hoped that he would recognize her. His eyes closed for a moment, and with some effort he cleared his throat. He was obviously very weak and groggy. Then as he looked at her again, a shadow of a smile crept over his usually jovial face. Cally clutched his hand and tears flooded her eyes. Glen returned the pressure on her hand and tried to speak. "What " he tried again to clear his throat, hoarse from disuse, and rested a moment with his eyes closed. Cally —_— =I ¢ 4 Ld? " i) i \ R § e pf couldn't breathe in fear and anticipation. His voice finally came to her in a coarse whisper. "What—kind of day is it?" The gloom of the rainy day, the sound of the dismal drizzle, and the rumble of distant thunder penetrated the small hospital room as understanding flooded Cally's mind. She knelt beside his bed in prayerful thanksgiving. "Tt's a beautiful day, Glen," she cried in a choked whisper. "Just beautiful!"