[Vol43 | June 1956 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting | Author: Jacobs]
It is again recommended that visiting teachers memorize the quotations. The quotations and their obyjectives are as follows: Lesson 41. "Yea, Wo Unto Him That Shall Deny the Revelations of 406 the Lord, and That Shall Say the Lord No Longer Worketh by Revelation " (3 Nephi 29:6). Objective: To show that faith in continuous revelation is essential to a testimony of the truth of the gospel. Lesson 42. "Pray in Your Families Unto the Father, Always in My Name, That Your Wives and Your Children May Be Blessed" (3 Nephi 18:21). Objective: To point out the blessings that come from family prayer. Lesson 43. "But Charity Is the Pure Love of Christ, and It Endureth Forever; and Whoso Is Found Possessed of It at the Last Day, It Shall Be Well With Him" (Moroni 7:47). Objective: To stress the great importance of developing charity. Lesson 44. "And Wo Be Unto Him That Will Not Hearken Unto the Words of Jesus, and Also to Them Whom He Hath Chosen and Sent Among Them; For Whoso Receiveth Not the Words of Jesus and the Words of Those Whom He Hath Sent Receiveth Not Him; and Therefore He will Not Receive Them at the Last Day" (3 Nephi 29:34). Objective: To point out that hearkening to the words of Jesus and to the words of those whom he has chosen to lead the Church are required of Latter-day Saints. Lesson 45. "And It Came to Pass That There Was No Contention in the Land, Because of the Love of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 God Which Did Dwell in the Hearts of the People" (4 Nephi 1) Objective: To give encouragement for eliminating contention through having the love of God in our hearts. Lesson 46. "And Now, My Beloved Son, Notwithstanding Their Ithe Nephites'] Hardness, Let Us Labor Diligently; For If We Should Cease to Labor, We Should Be Brought Under Condemnation; For We Have a Labor to Perform Whilst in This Tabernacle of Clay, That We May Conquer the Enemy of All Righteousness, and Rest Our Souls in the Kingdom of God" (Moroni 9:6). Objective: To remind us that we as individuals must never cease laboring to bring souls to Chuist. Lesson 47. "And What Is It That Ye Shall Hope For? Behold I Say Unto You That Ye Shall Have Hope Through the Atonement of Christ and the Power of His Resurrection, to Be Raised Unto Life Eternal, and This Because of Your Faith in Him According to the Promise" (Moroni 7:41). Objective: To show that faith in Jesus Christ is the key to eternal life. Lesson 48. "And When Ye Shall Receive These Things, I Would Exhort You That Ye Would Ask God, the Eternal Father, in the Name of Christ, If These Things Are Not True; and If Ye Shall Ask With a Sincere Heart, With Real Intent, Having Faith in Christ, He Will Manifest the Truth of It Unto You by the Power of the Holy Ghost" (Moroni 10:4). Objective: To point out that Moroni's promise is certain of fulfillment if prescribed conditions are met.