[Vol43 | June 1956 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: EMamkiel | Author: Williamso]
[EMamkiel y CChhialddrweinc'sk ZClaoutghge s M aEkceosn o m iMcaanlyl y Q uainldt s P r ofessionally Ivie Huish Jones 338977 Early American Hooked Rug Design Elizabeth Williamson]
voo and  made  it  almost  overnight 
into  one  of  the  most  remarkable 
cities  of  all  time. 
All  the  results  of  this  industry, 
all  this  prosperity,  all  this  accomp- 
lishment, however,  were  not  long 
to  endure.  Heber  C.  Kimball's 
prophetic  prediction  that  Nauvoo 
would  be  "not  a  long  abiding  home 
of  the  Saints/'  was  soon  to  be  ful- 
filled. 
The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith's  mur- 
der at  the  hands  of  the  mob  in 
Carthage,  in  June  1844,  was  soon 
followed  by  violent  threats  against 
the  people  of  the  city  of  Nauvoo. 
Late  in  1845  the  mobs  demanded 
that  Nauvoo  be  vacated  by  the  fol- 
lowing spring.  The  people's  cour- 
age and  skill  now  must  be  turned 
in  a  different  direction.  Their  faith 
and  determination  led  them  to 
follow  their  Prophet's  instruction 
to  complete  their  beautiful  temple, 
while,  at  the  same  time,  they  worked 
feverishly  to  build  and  accumulate 
the  necessary  wagons  and  equip- 
ment for  their  western  exodus. 
Those  were  heartbreaking  days. 
The  only  material  things  they  could 
carry  with  them  were  what  could  be 
packed  into  the  few  wagons  at  their 
disposal.  As  an  indication  of  the 
kind  of  home  furnishings  they  were 
forced  to  leave  behind,  a  reporter, 
writing  in  the  Carthage  Republican, 
said: 
Scattered  about  were  numerous  adjuncts 
of  refined  and  comfortable  living,  elegant 
furniture,  paintings,  here  and  there  a 
piano  or  a  harp,  finely  upholstered  sofas 
and  chairs,  and  many  tasteful  and  con- 
venient things  which  well-to-do  persons 
would  surround  themselves  with  in  well- 
ordered  homes  (Nauvoo  the  Beautiful,  by 
E.  Cecil  McGavin,  page  232). 
Many  of  the  attractive  homes 
they  sold  to  their  enemies  for  small 
sums  of  money.  Others  were  mere- 
ly locked  up  and  left  to  be  sold  lat- 
er for  taxes  by  the  State  of  Illinois. 
No  records  have  been  discovered 
to  indicate  what  happened  to  the 
Heber  C.  Kimball  home  during  the 
years  between  1846  and  1854.  Deeds, 
however,  have  been  found  which 
reveal  that  during  the  nearly  one 
hundred  years  since  1854,  the  nouse 
changed  hands  many  times. 
Each  new  owner  made  certain 
changes  in  the  house  in  accordance 
with  his  own  ideas  and  way  of  life. 
At  one  time,  because  of  neglect  and 
deterioration,  the  house  was  about 
to  be  torn  down  but,  because  of 
its  pleasing  lines  and  because  of  its 
"certain  something,"  it  was  pre- 
served. 
In  1954  this  historical  residence, 
rich  in  tradition,  found  its  way  back 
into  the  family  which  built  and 
hallowed  it  with  love  and  sacrifice. 
On  the  sixth  day  of  March  at  10:55 
a.m.,  Dr.  J.  LeRoy  Kimball,  a  great- 
grandson  of  Heber  C.  and  Vilate 
Kimball,  purchased  the  home  from 
Mrs.  Katherine  E.  Jones,  who  had

358 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE   1956 
A  ROOM  IN  THE  KIMBALL  HOME 
(Before  the  restoration.     Note  the  broken 
plaster  and  exposed  brick. ) 
owned    the    property    for    twenty 
years. 
Dr.  Kimball  had  one  objective 
when  he  made  this  purchase.  He 
had  a  burning  desire  to  preserve  the 
home  and  to  restore  it  as  nearly  as 
possible  to  its  original  charm  and 
beauty. 
The  Restoration 
The  responsibility  of  restoring  an 
old  home  is  a  fascinating  and  exhil- 
arating challenge.  It  also  involves 
hard  work,  requiring  countless 
hours  of  concentrated  study  and  re- 
search. 
There  is  only  one  way  that  a  work 
of  restoration  should  be  done  — 
that  is  to  do  it  right.  There  are  no 
magic    short  cuts. 
To  restore  a  home  does  not  mean 
merely  to  repair  it  and  make  it  liv- 
able. More  is  involved  than  just 
putting  on  a  new  roof,  replastering 
broken  walls,  and  adding  a  new  coat 
of  paint.  Much  more  is  required 
than  simply  refurnishing  the  house 
with   any    "old"   furniture  or   new 
modern  pieces  that  may  happen  to 
be  readily  available. 
The  restoration  of  a  home  means 
to  return  it,  as  nearly  as  possible, 
to  its  original  form  and  condition. 
It  means  also  to  redecorate  and  re- 
furnish it  as  closely  as  possible  to 
the  way  it  was  decorated  and  furn- 
ished by  its  original  builders  and 
inhabitants. 
To  accomplish  this,  one  must 
first  learn  what  the  house  was  like 
when  it  was  built.  Due  to  subse- 
quent alterations  and  changes,  this 
is  not  always  easy.  The  personality 
and  living  habits  of  the  original 
owners  must  be  determined  as  ac- 
curately as  possible.  The  living 
habits  of  the  community  also  must 
be  studied  and  a  knowledge  ob- 
tained of  the  architecture  and  furn- 
ishings characteristic  of  the  decor- 
ating period  during  which  the  house 
was  constructed  and  furnished. 
Gathering  this  information  is  in- 
volved and  laborious.  It  requires  the 
examination  of  old  deeds,  docu- 
ments, letters,  and  journals.  It 
necessitates  the  study  of  old  pictures 
and  photographs,  and  the  reading 
of  histories  of  the  individual  and 
the  times  in  which  he  lived.  Finally, 
it  requires  a  thorough  understand- 
ing of  architectural  and  decorating 
periods. 
Armed  with  this  knowledge  and 
information,  one  is  then  ready  to 
start  work  on  the  actual  restoration 
—most  often  a  long  and  painstak- 
ing task. 
In  restoring  the  Heber  C.  Kim- 
ball home  we  have  dedicated  our- 
selves to  rediscover  and  retain  all 
of  its  early  charm  and  appeal.  We 
want  to  make  the  home  as  authen- 
tic as  possible  but,  at  the  same  time,

"A  THING  OF  BEAUTY' 
359 
Hal   Rumel 
ANTIQUE  FURNISHINGS  TO  BE  PLACED  IN  THE  KIMBALL  HOME 
These  furnishings  are  to  be  placed  in  the  Kimball  home,  although  not  in  the 
grouping  illustrated  above.  The  picture  on  the  wall  at  the  right  is  of  Heber  C.  Kimball. 
The  chairs  are  Windsor,  popular  in  America  about  1740-1850.  These  particular  chairs 
are  English.  The  Victorian  lamp  stood  for  many  years  in  an  old  Nauvoo  home.  The 
footstool  was  used  by  Heber  C.  Kimball  in  his  Salt  Lake  City  home.
