[Vol43 | June 1956 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Music]
Music Company, 74 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Preview of the Lessons for 1956-57 Elder John Farr Larson Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it. In the short space of twenty years, he has brought forth the Book of Mormon, which he translated by the gift and power of God, and has been the means of publishing it on two continents; has sent the fulness of the everlasting gospel, which it contained, to the four quarters of the earth; has brought forth the revelations and commandments which compose this book of Doctrine and Covenants, and many other wise documents and instructions for the benefit of the children of men; gathered many thousands of the Latter-day Saints, founded a great city, and left a fame and name that cannot be slain. He lived great, and he died great in the eyes of God and his people; and like most of the Lord's anointed in ancient times, has sealed his mission and his words with his own blood; and so has his brother Hyrum. In life they were not divided, and in death they were not separated! (D. & C. 135:3). Page 410 LESSON DEPARTMENT HE foregoing excerpt from modern Latter-day scriptures offers a complete and concise summary of the Prophet Joseph Smith's place in the history of the world. It describes vividly the broad scope of his accomplishments within an unbelievably short time. It awakens in every Latter-day Saint a new appreciation for the life of this great leader. One cannot review his service to mankind without concluding that he was inspired of the Lord and divinely called to usher in the dispensation of the fulness of times. All Latter-day Saints are desirous of becoming more familiar with the "wise... Instructions for the benefit of the children of men" uttered by the Prophet. He spoke with wisdom on almost every conceivable subject, and most of what he said was far in advance of the thinking of his day. Some of the Prophet's teachings were directed to God's children everywhere, some to members of the Church only, while still others were spoken to specific groups within the Church. Of special. Interest to members of the Relief Society are his instructions delivered and recorded at the early meetings of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, which was established by the Prophet Joseph Smith in March 1842. Sarah M. Kimball reported the Prophet as saying, ""The Church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized" (Relief Society Magazine, March 19109, page 129). The Prophet Joseph's exalted concept of women's status elevated them to a new level. His instruc- 411 tions established a conduct pattern for Latter-day Saint women which they have been taught to follow ever since, perhaps not always being aware of the original source of these instructions. His suggested procedures in serving others and in perfecting ourselves are as applicable today as when they were spoken, and coincide with "new'' ideas advanced by the modern experts. Latter-day Saint women are better wives and mothers by living in accordance with the teachings given them by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Their family life patterns become greatly strengthened. In speaking to the Relief Society on May 26, 1842, the Prophet advised the sisters of Relief Society, "If I were not in your midst to aid and counsel you, the devil would overcome you" (D. H. C. V, page 21). The social science lessons for the coming year are based upon the Prophet Joseph Smith's teachings to Latter-day Saint women. 'They are offered in the hope that through their consideration Relief Society members everywhere will increase in testimony regarding the Prophet's mission, and in a desire to improve the effectiveness of their great organization by heeding his timely counsel. 'These 1956-57 lessons are the first year of a course of study designed to strengthen the family, and to consider its problems, position, and blessings in our modern culture. Lesson titles and objectives for the year are as follows: Lesson 1—Joseph Smith's_ Early Home Life Objective: To show the influence of the Prophet's early family life upon 412 his teachings to the Latter-day Saint women. Lesson 2—A New Day For Women Objective: To show that the organization of the Relief Society marked the beginning of a new era for women Lesson 3—The Key Is Turned Objective: To show significant steps in the organization of the Relief Society and the opportunities for service found in its objectives. Lesson 4—Women and the PriestHood Objectives: To show the role and responsibilities of Latter-day Saint women in connection with the Priesthood. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Lesson s—'"Unto the Least of These Objective: To show that salvation is the ultimate aim in all service to the needy. Lesson 6—"'Search Your Hearts" Objective: To illustrate the process of perfection and the necessity of eliminating those traits of character which retard our quest for perfection. Lesson 7—'"Be Ye Therefore Perfect" Objective: 'To suggest the importance of acquiring desirable qualities and to show the blessings in store for those who love the Lord. Totes on the elven of the a HIS year only one writer not previously represented among the authors of the lessons, is introduced to Relief Society members and readers of the Magazine.