[Vol43 | June 1956 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Social | Author: Larson]
John Farr Larson, author of the social science lessons, "Latter-day Saint Family Life,' was born in Taylor, Weber County, Utah, a son of Patriarch James A. Larson and Olive Farr Larson. He is a graduate of Weber College and the University of Utah School of Law, and is a practicing attorney in Salt Lake City at the present time. He is a member of the Utah State Bar Association and is currently serving as chairman of the Family Law Section of that organization. He has been admitted to practice law before the Supreme Court of Utah, the United States Court of Military Appeals, and the United States Supreme Court. In 1938 Elder Larson became affiliated with the Utah State Juvenile Court System and since 1944 he has been Director of the Bureau of Services for Children, Utah State Department of Public Welfare. (This Bureau has administrative supervision of Juvenile Courts, Child Welfare Services in County Departments of Public Welfare, the licensing of Child Placing Agencies and Day Care Centers, and the investigation of adoption petitions for District Courts. ) He is a former President of the Utah Conference of Social Work, the Utah Child Guidance Association, Board of Directors of Salt Lake Community Chest, and is currently a member of the Editorial Advisory Board and_ Professional Council of the National Probation and Parole Association. In 1950 he served as Chairman, Utah Committee, Mid-Century White House Conference on Children and Youth. Elder Larson served in the Eastern States Mission from May 1936 until LESSON DEPARTMENT 413 June 1935. He has always been active in the Church. For many IS d V]], ZT years he served in Scouting and othacre "sic ~7or er MIA positions in the Ogden Fighth Ward. He is a former SunwD Gi, y Ram Pa day School superintendent of West Ensign and Canyoncrest Wards, I I ~~ Ashford's Piano Voluntaries—. Vols. 1 and 2 oooea. $1.25 member of the Highland Stake Sun- ' lB d a. Ee) ie Celestial Echoes 000000 022200---.- 1.00 day School Board and superintend- I I ~~ oo I; re 95 ency, and for three years a counselor I I Chapel Mesingsy 85 in the bishopric of Canyoncrest I I Chappell's Sacred Song Ward. At present he is a member FROG ecm ence cneenes erst omnan 1.25 of the Monument Park Stake High I I --- Concert Transcriptions of C 1 Favorite Hymns 000000002 200.-.. 1.00 emer; ia Church Pianist—Vols. 1, 2, 3.. Ea. 1.25 He married Ann Clayson In the ~ Famous Sacred Songs oe 1.25 Salt Lake Temple In June BOZO: ji More Concert Transcriptions of They are the parents of two sons Favorite Hymns - -.---seeeeeeum and three daughters a. Peery's Piano Voluntaries 1.25 bi hical sketch be IM = Piano Voluntaries --.. 1.00 For biographical sketches of the I I ~~ Sabbath Day Music 1.25 authors of the other lessons, see the I I Sacred Music For Piano Solo 1.50 following references in The Relief I I Sacred Piano Solos se-- 1.00 Society Magazine: ae Sacred Melodies With Variations 22 eee eeeeeeeeeee 1.25 Elder Leland H. Monson, (ilyeio51, I ieee. Sacred Piano Transcriptions 1.00 pase 47a =i mséds«COQE Sunday Piano Music (Boston) 1.25 Leone Openshaw Jacobs, July 1951, I I ------ Sunday Piano Music (Presser) 1.00 pees 47300 Oe SS mC Tranquil Hours 0000 0.-.---- 1.50 Rhea Hurst Gardner, June 1952, page 418. Music Sent on Approval Flder Briant S. Jacobs, July 1949, Use this advertisement as your order blank page 471. Nae ee:: DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY:: 15 E. Ist South -: Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. S/. [] On Approval [] Charge eeping oe [] Money Enclosed NOM ooo eeccccceeecsscseecenmmeeceserenceesncccesseecee Gertrude Kovan Address ooo cccccccccecceccceccsesesencsecncecseceseeccence Night has fallen on the lake— Spy /<eartate Silver iced, it gleams. I Errore Magic moonbeams softly trace Across forgotten dreams Of other nights when you and I I Daynes Miac Stood entranced by love, Not noting how the silence fell So quickly from above..15 E. Ist South 2260 WastnttOn BOD. CaDe 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO @" 2260 WASHINGTON BLVD, OGDEN HISTORIC TRAIN Write for information about the HISTORIC TRAIN that will include the great PAGEANT AT THE HILL CUMORAH. HAWAII Plan on going to Hawaii this Fall. We sail on November 9, 1956, from Los Angeles, California. For Complete Details, Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 GUS CSG eG eeeGece A nl ©, Cc ha t d Christie Lund Coles An orchard is the loveliest place In April decked in fairy lace; In summer, hung with crimson fruit, A place to hide, a place to loot; A spot to lie and see the sky, And watch cloud-images pass by, To dream as small birds chirp and sing An orchard is the loveliest thing. Page 414 She Sestimon y Plant Nancy M. Armstrong Wt all know that a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ is a living, growing thing. All living things need nourishment. When we have a particularly beautiful or rare plant in our gardens we give it extra care. We see that it has sunlight and water, cultivation and plant food. In the garden of life, what is more beautiful than a testimony of the gospel? It is indeed entitled to the choicest spot; to the best care and finest nourishment we can provide for it. A testimony draws its nourishment from activity in the work of the Lord, and in keeping his commandments. John Keats expressed the idea that "A thing of beauty is a joy forever." Surely this is true of a testimony. It is a source of joy to the one who possesses it, and a thing of beauty to all who come im contact with it. When a testimony is in full flowering, it bears many lovely blossoms of good deeds. The more bouquets one gives away to others, the more abundantly the testimony blooms. Like othe: growing things, a testimony can lie dormant for a period of time, but, if it receives no nourishment, it may wither away. Our first obligation is to see that our own testimonies are receiving all the sunlight and nourishment they need to keep them in full flowering. Our next duty ls to feel the responsibility to reach out to some fine sister whose testimony is lying dormant and help her bring it into bloom, so that her garden of life will be rich with the perfume "peace of mind"; the fragrance of every true testimony. &arly American Flooked Rug Design Elizabeth Williamson AY old quilt pattern [Early American] may be used in a hooked rug design.

The use of two colors is effective, such as: navy blue on white, or the reverse, using white on navy blue background. Any color combination may be used to harmonize with the room decoration. The stronger the contrast the more striking the effect of the pattern. authors of the lessons, is introduced to Relief Society members and readers of the Magazine.