[Vol43 | June 1956 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: When | Author: Nickell]
[When Mother's Reputation Was at Stake Nedra Stone Nickell]
When  "chicha"  is  ready,  fry  in  frying  pan  the  pieces  of  rooster  in  fat  till  brown; 
then  place  meat  with  fat  in  pressure  cooker.  Add  tomatoes,  onions,  garlic,  salt,  and 
pepper,  and  cook  in  open  pressure  cooker  for  1  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the 
prepared  "chicha,"  close  the  pressure  cooker  and  cook  at  15  pounds  pressure  for  25 
minutes.  Open  cooker  and  add  dried  prunes  and  cook  in  open  pressure  cooker  to  con- 
sume half  the  water  (approximately  half  hour).     Serve  with  "Chapin  Rice."

380  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE  1956 
Chapin  Rice 
2  c.  rice  4  c.  hot  water 
2  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  in  pieces  l  carrot,  cut  in  strips 
i   onion,  cut  in  pieces  l  pimiento  chili,  chopped 
i  pieces  garlic  Vz  c.  raw  peas 
3  heaping  tbsp.  pork  lard  Vi  c.  raw  string  beans,  cut 
2  tsp.  salt 
Fry  rice  in  lard  with  tomatoes,  onion,  and  garlic  for  10  minutes;  add  other  vege- 
tables and  fry  additional  5  minutes,  stirring  to  keep  from  burning.  To  this  add  the 
hot  water  and  mix  together  with  salt.  Cover  and  leave  cooking  on  low  flame  for  30 
minutes.  Do  not  remove  lid  or  stir  until  done.  When  cooked,  fluff  by  gently  turn- 
ing rice  with  spatula.     Serve  with  "Gallo  en  Chicha." 
The  rice  can  be  prepared  without  carrots,  peas,  string  beans,  and  pimiento  chili, 
for  serving  with  fried  beans  or  other  foods. 
(These  last  two  recipes  "Gallo  en  Chicha"  and  "Chapin  Rice"  were  submitted  by 
Sister  Carmen  O'Donnal  of  Mazatenango,  Guatemala.) 
///*/  of  ait  h  in   L^od 
Alice  Lyman  Welling 
I  know  he  lives  who  knows  me  best, 
And  how  in  eagerness  I  try 
To  bear  my  share  of  bitterness 
Without  complaint,  or  tear  or  sigh. 
My  faith  in  God  makes  gray  skies  blue; 
It  lifts  the  clouds  above  my  head 
And  bids  them  move,  that  rays  of  light 
Reveal  a  faith,  alive,  not  dead. 
So  with  this  gift  so  precious,  rare, 
May  I  not  fail  with  service  pure, 
But  minister  to  souls  who  faint 
That  my  salvation  will  be  sure. 
JLong-JLost  Q/nenas 
Maude  Rubin 
With  house  all  neat,  no  garden  to  tend — 
Fresh  cookies  baked,  dressed-up,  I  mend  .... 
But  I  sew  alone  till  that  day's  end — 
Without  one  friend. 
Next  day  I  decide  to  plant  some  roses  .... 
When  I'm  wet  and  muddy  from  leaky  hoses, 
Freckled  and  sunburned  (at  least,  my  nose  is!) 
Here  come  my  friends/

when    lllothers  [Reputation   Was  at  Stam 
Nedra  Stone  Nickell 
M 
Y  mother  was  loved  by  all 
who  knew  her  as  a  good 
neighbor.  Forty  or  fifty