[Vol43 | June 1956 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
And scarcely any of us have ever said aloud one word of thanks or appreciation to this greatest writer in English literature for the warming, cheering, enlarging contributions he makes constantly to our lives. The purposes of our study of Shakespeare are to understand more fully: (1) how near we are to Shakespeare in our daily lives; (2) how much our awareness of the human and natural worlds about us is quickened through reading him; and (3) how deeply indebted we are to him for his words of universal truth. Realizing full well that the high qualities of respect and love can never be forced nor dictated, our supreme objective is to understand Shakespeare more fully that we might enjoy him; respect and love then follow inevitably. Controversy over Origins or influences is not our major concern; nor are we interested in analyzing him as do scholars or critics. We are interested in finding within his lines those qualities which have made him immortal; we do want to become intimate friends with his characters and to feel at home in his stage settings. 'Then his words which we hear constantly ringing about us will gather richer meanings. 'Then his high poetry will sing more strongly within us, and lift us, sadden us, baffle and tease us, just as does life itself when most truly, keenly seen. 'Then in his speaking more intimately to us we shall realize in simple awe why his works have only increased in use and vitality throughout the centuries. More fittingly than of any other writer it might be said of Shakespeare that he is "all things to all men." His world of literary truth LESSON DEPARTMENT is adorned with the delights of the imagination, with poetry, music, beauty, fantasy, suffering, terror, wisdom, compassion. It is his people who come more fully alive on the page than do our neighbors and business associates in so-called "real" life. With him leading us and putting words and visions before our inner eye, we shall plumb depths of wisdom and human insight elsewhere and heretofore unknown to us. And best of all, gradually we shall come to realize that the unifying force of all his plays — Shakespeare himself — has seen life as truly as he has seen it fully. He never cudgels us into accepting any prejudiced, partial view of life as the whole and only one; he never preaches nor poses. Instead, he seems to say, "Here is a version of truth, of life as it has come to me. Consider it as you will; reject or accept it if you must; yield up to it your enjoyment and sympathy if you can." Our text is G. B. Harrison's Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948, $6. It will be used for the entire course. It is imperative that each class leader have a text, one which is competently edited, with full footnotes at the bottom of each page. Lesson titles and objectives for the first year follow: Lesson 1. Why Shakespeare? Objective: To understand the reasons for Shakespeare's greatness and appreciate his contribution to our lives. Lesson 2. Shakespeare's World Objective: To present the customs, 409 beliefs, and conflicts of Shakespeare's life and world, which were ready to be given harmony and artistic form by his emerging genius. Lesson 3. Shakespeare's Poetic Power Objective: To feel more profoundly the peculiar power and mystery of Shakespeare's poetry that we might read his works with enlarged understanding and hearts. Lesson 4. The Moral Shakespeare Objective: To show that in his plays the artist Shakespeare reveals himself as a typical Elizabethan who, among many other values, knew and loved the Bible and its moral teachings; therefore he defined Truth truly. Lesson 5. The Merchant of Venice Objective: To learn more fully that the two-edged sword of mercy cuts those who do not extend mercy, just as it cuts those to whom mercy is not extended. Lesson 6. Romeo and Juliet Objective: To witness the great beauty of the poetic expression and dramatic skill of Shakespeare in depicting the love of Romeo and Juliet. Lesson 7. A Midsummer Night's Dream Objective: To show that in A Midsummer Night's Dream, Shakespeare touches our lives through fantasy and poetry; through qualities we all approve, such as love, delight, joy, and humor. Lesson 8. Julius Caesar Objective: To realize that idealistic men of good will may destroy themselves in bold but imprudent attempts to destroy the evils they feel exist. Music for Lessons on Shakespeare Any of Shakespeare's works that are set to music could be used for any lesson, but the following are listed under the most appropriate one. LESSONS 1, 2, 3, AND 4: "A Sea Dirge'"' (solo) The Tempest— Chappell and Co., Ltd. 60c Two Shakespeare Songs (solos) "Shall I Compare Thee to a Summer's Day?" (Sonnet); "Full Fathom Five" (A Sea Dirge) The Tempest—Chappell and Co., Ltd. 60c "It Was a Lover and His Lass" (solo) As You Like It—G. Schirmer Co., Inc. Oc "Who Is Sylvia?" (solo) Two Gentlemen of Verona—G. Schirmer Co., Inc. Oc "Shall I Compare Thee?" (solo) Sonnet XVIII—G. Schirmer and Co., Inc. Oc "Blow, Blow, Thou Wintery Wind" (duet) As You Like It—Theodore Presser Co. 20¢ "It Was a Lover and His Lass' (trio) As You Like It—Oliver Ditson, Co. 22¢ "Under the Greenwood Tree' (fourpart mixed voices) As You Like It— H. J. Fitzsimmons Co. 20c "Sweet and Twenty" (solo) Twelfth Night—Chappell and Co., Ltd. 60c "Hark, Hark, the Lark" (trio) Cymbeline—Theodore Presser Co. 20¢ "Who Is Sylvia?'"' (two-part chorus) Two Gentlemen of Verona—G. Schirmer Co. 20¢ Lesson 5. Merchant of Venice "Tell Me Where Is Fancy Bred'' (solo) —Chappell and Co., Ltd. 60c Lesson 6. Romeo and Juliet "Come, Black-Browed Night" (four-part chorus )—G. Schirmer Inc. 22¢ Lesson 7. Midsummer Nights Dream "I Know a Bank" (duet or chorus)— G. Schirmer Inc. 20c Lesson 8. Julius Caesar "Orpheus Song'"' (solo)—-Chappell and Company. 60c If your local dealer is unable to supply these numbers, they may be ordered from the following stores: Beesley Music Company, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Daynes Music Company, 15 East First South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Glen Brothers