[Vol43 | June 1956 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
Work ITleeting— Food Preparation and Service Preview of Lessons for 1956-57 Rhea H. Gardner 'HIS is the second year of the course of study on "Food Preparation and Service." Too often in our day, women look beyond the walls of their homes for opportunities and experiences that offer challenge and contribute toward cultural growth. The fact is that the world's greatest laboratories for such experiences are our homes. Our homes are gold mines of opportunities, but the mining is not successfully done without effort. It requires planning and an earnest and continuous search. The important thing is that each wife and mother approach her task with a feeling of pride in her work as a maker of homes and a builder of characters, and that she allow nothing to blind her vision nor discourage her efforts. One of the richest shafts in this gold mine is in the area of meal preparation and service. If the mining is carefully and thoroughly done, the rewards are incalculable. The physical health of family members is kept at its best, and ties between mother and children are strengthened through their united relationships in the family kitchens. Since the best foods may be served at a nominal cost, the choosing, preparing, and serving food becomes a real art, satisfying the creative urge that is within us all and turning would-be boredom into deep satisfactions. Because food preparation is a daily activity, it can be a source of great, creative joy. Everyday duties, when done with competence as well as with love and devotion, enrich us spiritually; spiritual satisfaction is the finest fruit of all endeavor. 'The same experience results in boredom when we fail to develop skills that assure us success and a growing love for our work. The objective of these lessons is to teach the basic rules for success in choosing, preparing, and serving food, so that the experience of food preparation will become a real art and furnish recreation as well. What activity does more to re-create one's enthusiasm and love for life than to prepare and serve a delicious food that lifts the spirits and gives comfort and peace to the ravenous appetites of growing children? The full objective of these lessons will be reached only if each presentation includes a discussion on how each individual food fits into the entire meal picture. The fact that foods are good is not enough; they must also be good with the other foods with which they are served. Titles for the 1956-1957 course of lessons are as follows: Lunches and Sandwiches Casseroles and Leftovers Party Refreshments Breads Cheese Dishes Desserts Beverages Summary Pao a Ae a Page 407 408 It is recommended that the demonstration method of teaching be used as much as possible in the presentation of these lessons. 'The printed or spoken word is made alive and is more likely to become effective in the lives of those who read or hear it, if, in addition, it is demonstrated. As the solidity of our homes is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 being tested, and youth is confronted with forces that are in opposition to principles taught within the home, every effort must be made to hold the family together. Delicious foods, prepared by the co-operative effort of family members and served attractively in an atmosphere of peace and love, will do much to keep the family united and working for common ideals. OLiterature—Shakespeate in Our Lives Preview of Lessons for 1956-57 Elder Briant S. Jacobs HETHER we will or no, Shakespeare is always with us. Few of us are even mildly aware of the many actual words he places daily in our mouths; fewer still have taken the time to trace these daily phrases back to the plays themselves.