LESSON IV (Fourth Week in February) Social Service 2 Housing and Housekeeping ' The physical aspects of-a home influence very definitely the development of the family.

Good sanitary and dietary standards in a family are likely to make for a high standard of health.

Also, a well-regulated home contributes to the members more than physical well-being; it develops certain desirable traits in all the members of the family.

In a'successfully managed home the members feel a responsibility to maintain the family standard, they take a pride in order and in cleanliness, they learn the lesson of thrift and industry, and they learn to have mutual respect for each other's wishes, belongings and rights.

It is quite comprehensible that a well-organized family life develops agreeable, normal, successful individuals.

It is also, then, conceivable that reverse conditions develop opposite traits and characteristics.

Not only can the health of a child be undermined by the undesirable living conditions, but an unattractive, unsanitary home can effect his progress in school, his conduct, and his outlook on life.

Juvenile Court authorities can often understand why children stay out late at night, and interpret their resulting waywardness and delinquencies, when the homes of the children in difficulty are visited.

In trying to understand the economic success and the educational and normal tone of a family it is important to keep in mind the significance of the physical aspects of the home.

In cities, and particularly the larger ones, the actual housing conditions become such a problem that legislation is usually required to control sanitation, ventilation, and to prevent the exploitation of the tenants.

Such legislation limits the increase that landlords are permitted to make in the rentals and also requires that certain repairs be made, and that each room be equipped with windows or with air shafts.

Such minimum requirements, however, express only in a meager way the sentiment of the community regarding living conditions.

The standard set for the whole community by physicians, social workers and household experts, who aim to avoid the dangers of overcrowding, to foster health, and to develop wholesome home life, realize that the facilities must be adequate to promote the best possible family life.

A family of six can hardly manage with less than five rooms? three for sleeping, a kitchen, and a living room where social life in the family can be encouraged.

Young people are reluctant to bring their friends into the home if there is not one room where they can read, talk, play games, or enjoy music of some sort.

What furnishings a house has depend largely on taste, on individual preferences, and on the income.

Certainly there should be adequate sleeping room and sufficient bedding.

There should also be cupboard space for clothing, so as to encourage a sense of order and responsibility, even among the children, for the care of their belongings.

The kitchen or living room should have enough furniture so that the entire family can be seated for their meals. 
 Elementary as these requirements may seem, an appreciation of their significance has led many persons, who are meeting the difficulties of bad housekeeping and undernourished children.

To a better understanding of these problems.

If a mother does not have the kitchen equipment to prepare food, and if the family is living in such crowded quarters that it is difficult for the family to be seated for their meals, the children will often be subjected to the unwholesome practices of eating standing-up snatches of hastily prepared meals.

To improve standards of housekeeping is a difficult but by no means a hopeless task.

The successful housekeeper, lil: e a successful person in any occupation, must be trained, must have necessary equipment to do the work, and must have an incentive to succeed.

Until the process of housework has become a habit, it may be necessary for the housewife to work by a schedule? setting aside definite hours each day to perform certain household tasks, Without equipment?washtubs, kitchen utensils, sufficient linen, etc.,?the work is more difficult and complicated.

It is a simple matter to advise cleanliness to all housewives, but the one who has no hot water and no laundry conveniences will have some difficulty in attaining the same standard that is easily achieved in better equipped homes.

To instruct a mother to take her children out for a daily airing may be very sound hygienic advice, but it may not be very practical to follow if she does not have a baby carriage.

In attempting to give instructions in housekeeping it is important to create an incentive or motive for improvement.

If a mother is made to realize, through clinical or school exaniunations, for instance, that her children are not as well-developed as other children of the same age, she may be helped to see the connection between her own indifferent housekeeping and the poor health of the family.

In another instance, the motive for creating a pleasant family environment may not come until the mother realizes that her children would rather spend their time elsewhere?with the neighbors, at the movies, or in the streets? than to spend their leisure in their own home.

Questions and Problems What housing problem does your community.

Have?

What is the relation between housekeeping and health?

How do you account for the undernourishment of chilWhy would the housekeeping influence the school work of children?

Their conduct? 5. Discuss the social values of a pleasant home atmosphere.

Dren in cities?

In rural communities?