LESSON III (Third Week in February) Literature SIDNEY LANIER 59 Sidney Lanier was a notable example of a man of versatile talent.

He seemed for many years of his life as much the musician as the poet.

Only as he matured did it become apparent that he had more creative ability as a poet than he had as a musician.

Yet the fact that he was a musician made of him one of those rare singers, the music of whose verse thrills with a satisfaction unknown, where the feeling for music is lacking.

Such a poet was John Milton among the English, and such a poet was Sidney Lanier among Americans.

We have already noted the music of Edgar Allen Poe's verse, who, like Lanier, was of Southern birth.

Critics are pretty generally agreed that no one but a man day Saint lesson is taught by it?

A GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY | 653 of Southern birth could have written what Sidney Lanier wrote; consequently he becomes an intepreter of the section that gave him birth.

His life was a severe struggle with untoward circumstances.

War, poverty, and serious ill health, growing out of the hardships of both poverty and war, were his portion.

One cannot resist wondering what his contribution might have been had he been nurtured in an environment such as Longfellow and Lowell knew.

He was born in Macon, Georgia, February 3, 1842. He attended school until the age of fourteen, when he entered Oglethrope college.: His musical gift was inherited, for as a boy he could play any instrument he tried.

His favorite instrument was the violin, which proved to be so wearing on his sensitive nature that, yielding to his fathers request, he gave it up and devoted himself to the flute.

He mastered the flute without instruction, and later "attained great distinction as first flutist in the Peabody Orchestra, of Baltimore," say his biographers.

After being graduated he served as a tutor for nearly a year, resigning to enlist in the Confederate army, in April, 1861. He went through the war as a private, declining several offers of promotion, because he was.

Unwilling to be separated from his brother Clifford to whom he was devoted, in an extraordinary degree.

However, close to a year before the war was over the two were separated by being detailed as signal officers on board a blockade runner.

While in this service, Sidney was captured, and imprisoned for five months.

During the war he began to develop symptoms of tuberculosis.

Imprisonment in the wretched prison at Point Lookout, North Carolina, provided just the development of the disease; consequently Sidney Lanier may be regarded as one of the victims of the Civil War, as his death was undoubtedly the result of living the life of a soldier.

On his release from prison on February, 1865, he walked home to Georgia, where he went through a severe illness of six weeks.

Just as he recovered his mother died. - Poverty had engulfed the Lanier family as it had thousands of other southern families, so that this gifted son of the South took the first occupation that presented itself, which chanced to be a clerkship in an Alabama hotel, at Montgomery.

In May, 1867, Lanier went to New York to arrange for the publication of his war novel Tiger Lilies.

In September of the same year he became principal of a school in Prattsville, Alabama.

Three months after, he married Miss Mary Day of his own home town, Macon, Georgia.

The union proved to be ideally happy, and might almost be classed with such a marriage as Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning.

From his devotion to his wife GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY ~? 635 And loves for all that God and man In art and nature make or plan, And lady-loves for spidery lace And broideries and supple grace And diamonds and the whole sweet round Of littles that large life compound, And loves for God and God's bare truth, And loves for Magdalen and Ruth.

Dear eyes, dear eyes and rare complete?

Being heavenly-sweet and earthly-sweet, I marvel that God made you mine, For when He frowns 'tis then ye shine!

A month after marriage Lanier went back to Macon, Georgia, in poor health.

For some reason, not plain, he went into the study of law with his father, a venture that covered four years.

His health became the urgent necessity of his life, so that he first took a trip to New York for treatment, and later to Texas for climate.

In December, 1873, he began work with the Baltimore orchestra, publishing fourteen months later the poem that marked him as a man of genius.

This poem called forth by a Georgia Jandscape in summer he called Corn.

It begins: Today the woods are trembling through and through With shimmering forms, that flash before my view, Then melt in green as dawn-stars melt in blue.

From the date of the publication of Corn, Bayard Taylor, the distinguished writer, and Sidney Lanier became fast friends.

He procured the appointment for Lanier to write a cantata for the Philadelphia Centennial of 1876. Lanier has paid Taylor more than one tribute in verse.

The years remaining to Lanier were spent in a vain attempt to find a climate in which he might live without suffering so severely.

He tried the mountains near North Carolina "and Tampa, Florida.

Lanier's musical talent contributed much to his musical success.

To the type of poetry where sound and movement combine to produce both meaning and music, he made a most valuable contribution.

Much as he loved music, and greatly as it added to his poetry, for he sometimes set his poetry to music, he desired more to be an expert in the field of literature.

This desire was granted all too late, we are tempted to say, for the embers of life were burning low with him when he accepted a chair in Johns Hopkins University.

We are told that his students often wondered if his breath would last through the recitation.

After two years' service, from 1879-1881, at Johns Hopkins University, he wrote the Commemoration Ode, delivered on the 
 University's fourth anniversary which contains the beautiful lines: "Bring faith that sees with understanding eyes, The world has bloomed again, at Baltimore." He passed to his reward at Asherville, North Carolina, where he died in September.

Mrs. Lanier's description of the event is a classic, so we include it: "We are left alone with one another.

On the last night of the summer comes the change.

His love and immortal will hold off the destroyer of our summer one more week, until the forenoon of September 7th, and then falls the frost, and that unfaltering will renders its supreme submission to the adored will of God." A character poem of Lanier's is The Symphony.

In the poem he personifies each instrument in the orchestra and makes them discuss various deep social questions of the time.

Like most artists, Lanier makes a plea for more heart in business, more time for the consideration of heart-throbs, more heart for the mad rush of trade.

Lanier's life presents three absorbing topics: They are Lanier the man, Lanier the musician, and Lanier the poet.

Questions and Problems 1. What was the occasion of the centennial celebration in Philadelphia, 1876? 2. What contribution did Sidney Lanier make to that celebration? 3. "My Springs" is one of the noblest and most beautiful tributes ever written by a man to a woman: read it carefully, and try to list the things that Lanier says his wife inspires and stimulates in his life. 4, What does Lanier mean, when he speaks of the "littles that large life compound?". Do you think the world still needs singers who ask for more heart in the world of commerce and trade, if so, why? 6. Show that the untimely death of Sidney Lanier, is a protest against war. 7. What are the chances that the Great War took from the world many persons who would have made notable.

Contributions?