[Vol10 | March 1923 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Home | Title: Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart]

Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart "DAY BY DAY, IN EVERY WAY, BETTER AND BETTER" Laying aside the psychology attempted to be taught in this current phrase, may we not apply it to the progress which should characterize every housewife? It will be exhilarating for the bride just beginning, as well as for the grandmother, who is supposed to have graduated in household science, to stand upon new. Ground from week to week in the science and art of culinary work. Homemakers of long experience, who have a knowledge of the rudiments of good housekeeping, may yet learn ways of making labor light. It is easy in this as in other departments of labor to get into a rut and travel in a circle. There is little excuse in this day of calories and household devices, even in the home of limited means, continuously to cook and serve the same food in the same way. The pull of the past should not impede the progress of the present. The methods of the mother need not determine the daily routine of the daughter. The attainment of years does not imply that there is no room for improvement in any particular department of work. There are new methods, new ideas, new tools and new phases of household science which an attentive mind may accumulate to enrich life and make the possessor more helpful and interesting to her friends. As Milton in his Paradise Lost said: "Nothing lovelier can be found In woman, than to study household good." In order to contribute her best to the solution of life's problems, the homemaker must have some retreat from the busy world. The systematic and well-ordered home provides this haven of rest. Because of her contribution to human comfort and efficiency by maintaining an even home atmosphere, the homemaker must have health of body and mind, nerve-balance and poise, and a constantly widening vision of the future. Woman can maintain her greatest power only by placing a proper value on essentials and non-essentials in the business of home-making, and if she would serve well in this capacity will not allow herself to slacken in any way. In order to serve her country best in the guidance of youth in her home, she must aim to keep young in body and in spirit. She must keep up to date in such things as cooking, canning, gardening 
 sewing, art, house decoration and last, but not least, child training and education. Modern education is beginning to recognize its responsibility in the training of boys and girls in the art of home-making by sharing in the activities of the home. But some busy mothers feel that they do not have time to give attention to new methods because it is easier at the time to do things in the accustomed way. That is all right providing the old method is the most efficient and brings the best results with the least time and energy. But why not cooperate with the school by letting the children do the things that modern education and new methods suggest, and make up for the temporary loss of motion involved in the change by having the children help in the work. They like to help and love to do the things that are too big for them. This desire, if directed properly, will have a wholesome effect on the child by encouraging him to reach out for bigger things as he grows older. The tendency upon the part of the mother is to say: "Run away, mother is busy." His impulse to help may be thus thwarted, and too often, when the child grows older, he does run away when his help is needed. Very small children can be taught to do many little duties, such as putting their play things away when through with them, carrying things, hanging up their caps and coats, all of which will lighten the daily duties of the mother. As the child grows older, let him have definite tasks about the house and garden. Give him responsibility. There is no reason why boys should not do household work as well as girls. It is unfortunate for the domestic training of the boy that little household chores are not a part of the home life. If home economics deals so vitally with life, home, and social problems, why not train the boy in some of these problems and make him as efficient a citizen as the girl in these lines? Boys, whether of town or country, should be allowed and obliged to invest in a share of the homemaking business, not so much for the actual help they give as for what it will do for them in instilling responsibility for home maintenance. Taking care of their own rooms, keeping their clothes in order, helping to wash dishes, preparing meals, making beds, sweeping, dusting and cleaning are all things they can do very thoroughly if taught. It is harder, as most mothers know, to teach the boy to do these duties when he grows old enough to be with the "gang." But if he is to eat three meals a day, which he will probably continue to do, why should he not know something of the preparation and value of that food? As long as he wears clothes, why should he not know how to buy and take care of them? As he expends money, why not teach him to earn it honestly and wisely expend it? In doing this he can be taught the art of keeping accounts and the value of making and following a budget.
OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 137
The mother who always shields her children, lets them play while they might better be helping, lets them go to parties while she works the harder for their going, does not always love them best, but the mother who trains her child for the service of humanity, not only makes a real contribution to the world but retains that abiding love which never fails.