[Vol10 | March 1923 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for May]

GUIDE LESSONS 155 But the Legend of Sleepy Hollow and Rip Van Winkle perform the great feat and the great service of first portraying native American character, scenes and traditions. Vivid and true are the descriptions of the scenes and early life on the Hudson. Rip and Ichabod, caricatures though they be, are more real to every boy and girl above the fourth and fifth grade than Hendrik Hudson or Peter Stuyvesant. What marvelous pictures of simple country life are found in Ichabod's school, the itinerant school master, the Van Tassel's house party, the Brom Bones' type of rustic courtship!, Something distinctly American at last! Americans in romance! An artistic, imaginative creation from American life, and that cast in a new literary mold with a flavor of its genial author, —such was the legacy of Irving that made him the idol he was. SUGGESTIONS FOR STUDY 1. For reading, the essays are well represented by Westminster Abbey and Straiford-on-Avon, and the narratives most popular are Rip Van Winkle and Legend of Sleepy Hollow. Note in all of these the diction— culling words and phrases well chosen for vividness and description, in scene, character, or action, or for revealing atmosphere. 2. Marking the passages of humor, as you read, is an interesting exercise. Note in the essays, particularlyJohn Bull, Little Britain, The Country Church, or Rural Life, both the sympathetic appreciation and also the satiric criticism Irving feels for British life and law. 3. Can you select passages from Irving that are wordy but answer the earlier demand for elegance? 4. Select the words and phrases that reveal the wonderful picture of domestic life as portrayed in the "Van Tassel" home. 5. Wherein do you find traces of Irving's biography in his writings? Observe particularly 'the English essays. 6. What is your impression of Irving's character, as you see and feel his personality in his works? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in May) MARRIAGE AS A RELIGIOUS AND MORAL OBLIGATION Marriage is a commandment of God. It is of all human relations the most sacred. Upon it is based the greatest blessings of earth and heaven. The Lord in modern revelation says: 
 "Wherefore, it is lawful that he should have one wife, and they twain shall be one flesh, and all that the earth might answer the end of its creation: and that it might be filled with the measure of man, according to his creation before the world was made. Doctrine & Covenants, Sec. 49:16-17. In another revelation we are told of the eternal blessings which follow under the covenant. "And again, verily I say unto you, if a man marry a wife by my word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting covenant, and it is sealed unto them by the Holy Spirit of promise, by him who is anointed, unto whom I have appointed this power, and keys of this Priesthood; and it shall be said unto them, Ye shall come forth in the first resurrection; and if it be after the first resurrection, in the next resurrection; and shall inherit thrones, kingdoms, principalities, and powers, dominions, all heights and depths—then shall it be written in the Lamb's Book of Life, * * * they shall pass by the angels, and the Gods, which are set there, to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever." It is thus very clear that the marriage union is one of the most essential conditions of the eternal reward which the gospel promises the faithful. This is true not only from the standpoint of the individual's own salvation but from the standpoint of the human race, being the condition through which the earth might "answer the end of its creation." Why Marriage is Sacred Marriage becomes sacred first, because God has made it so, but our experiences have also taught us to regard it as sacred. In fact, we are becoming constantly aware of the close agreement between what God has commanded, as essential to eternal life, and the things which experience teaches, as essential to human welfare. For example, it is a common belief among students of history that the rapid decline of Rome was due in large part to a disregard by high officials of the fundamental law of marriage relationship. Ellwood calls our attention to the cause of the decline of ancient Rome, and thinks he sees a resemblance between disturbing conditions which existed at that time and the present. He says: "The very forces which undermined Roman civilization, viz., commercialism, individualism, materialistic standards of life, militarism, a low estimate of marriage and the family, agnosticism in religion and ethics, seem to be the things which are now prominent, if not dominant, in Western civilization." GUIDE LESSONS 157 The Physically and Mentally Strong Should Marry In our generation a most perplexing problem connected with family life is the tendency on the part of those who have the physical and mental power to succeed in the world, both educationally and financially, to postpone marriage until late in life, or else not to marry at all, thus depriving the human rece of a proper proportion of children from those of greater native endowments. The low marriage rate among graduates of the higher institutions of learning is common knowledge. The average man or woman of health, physically and mentally, can serve humanity better through the family than through any other institution. The whole civilization suffers when these people, blessed with natural ability, neglect this fundamental to God and the race. It is the family and the home where human character and moral possibilities are best developed. And it is in this enterprise where we need the services and the devotion of the highest human quality. It is indeed unfortunate when mere comfort, or social position, or the desire to travel, or professional or political ambitions, stand in the way and take the place of the desire to establish a home and rear a family. | The Postponement of Marriage There are many, reasons which may justify the postponement of marriage. Questions of health, of education, and grave financial conditions, may sometimes be considered as proper excuses for postponing marriage. Those who marry in haste repent at leisure. But there are also very good reasons why marriage should not be postponed beyond that age in the life of man and woman when it is difficult to make adjustments and readjustments, for marriage always requires this. People who are past forty years of age have pretty well established habits and standards of life. They are disinclined to make any thorough reconstruction in their ways of living and in their notions of right and wrong. The questions of where they are to live, what their politics shall be, what part they shall take in religious matters, should be settled and settled right in the early matured years of manhood and womanhood, and this can be done satisfactorily only by mutual agreement of husband and wife. If these matters are not settled in this way, they will remain forever conditions of friction. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Show from the revelations of God that marriage is a sacred obligation. 
 Pa 2. What blessings are promised to those who marry by the "new and everlasting covenant," and who live in accordance with that law? 'Show that the disregard of the marriage relation tends to undermine civilization. What does Ellwood say concerning the decline of Rome? Why should the physically and men'ally strong be encouraged to marry and rear children? What is the teachings of our Church concerning the bearing and the rearing of children? What are some of the advantages in postponing marriage? What are the dangers if marriage is postponed until the habits of life are fixed? What classes of people generally postpone marriage? What methods should parents employ in teaching their children the sacredness of marriage? TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MAY Mothers' Day I. Miss Ann Jarvis of Philadelphia met a long felt need when she succeeded in getting a day set apart as a national Mothers' Day. Greatest of all human responsibility is that of motherhood. It has been said, "Show me the mother and I'll answer for the child."  Old Hebrew tradition of the importance and sanctity of motherhood. A. Abraham might be the father of many nations but the covenant people could come only through Isaac, son of Sarah, B. The Fifth Commandment. (Exodus 20:12.) IV. Christ manifested great love for his mother. Two of the few recorded utterances when on the cross had reference to his mother. (John 19:26, 27.) SPECIAL OFFER 25c Complete Material For The Making of A Lady’s Linen Handkerchief Including one square of fine colored linen, thread, design, hot-iron transfer, directions, needle and patch. Choice of color and design (either flowers or patches). Write at once and get your order in'as no department store could make such a remarkable offer HELENE NOVELTY SHOP P. O. Box 585 Salt Lake City, Utah Make a handkerchief as an Easter Gift— To Our Patrons and Friends To insure prompt attention to subscriptions and any other business connected with the Relief Society Magazine Manager's office, please address plainly all communications to Room 20, Bishop's Building. A new order has been issued from the Post Office department saying, "That no mail matter will be delivered unless the proper address is given." By complying with Post Office regulations you may be fully assured that your communications will be well taken care of, otherwise where the proper address is not given mail matter will be returned to the sender. Sample: (Address) _ Relief Society Magazine, Room 20, Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. — The Relief Society Magazine would like to secure the following magazines, for which we will pay twenty cents per copy. Before sending copies, please write the Magazine, stating how many of each you have on hand.