[Vol10 | March 1923 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

ANNIVERSARY EDITORIAL
Opinion concerning the Nineteenth century, and its specific contribution to the progress of the world, has been undergoing a process of reconstruction, particularly during the past decade of the Twentieth century. This is in no way unusual; it is hardly possible to estimate time and its contributions to life as we pass through it; we must see it in perspective. Whatever change of opinion historians and sociologists have undergone in relation to the past century, on one thing they are agreed, that the Nineteenth century marks the advent of women into a larger participation of the life of the world, and into work that has come through concerted effort, made possible through local, national and international organizations. This larger life has come to woman mainly through two channels, education and organization. The names of three women are prominent in the effort to bring to women educational opportunities—Emma Willard, Mary Lyon, and Mary Mortimer. Emma Willard began her work as early as 1821. Later, women caught a vision of better things, and organized into groups with specific aims in view. The Woman's Christian Temperance Union, and the American Woman's Suffrage Association set a pace and created a pattern that all later bodies of organized women have followed in details of organization, and in the spirit of courage and persistence that characterized these very worthy bodies. In 1868 the Sorosis Club of New York City was organized. This is one of the pioneer clubs of America. In March, 1889, when the club had reached its twenty-first anniversary, Mrs. Jennie C.
EDITORIAL 147
Croly, one of its leading spirits, suggested that delegates from all the women's clubs be called together to form a federation. An invitation was issued, which was responded to by sixty-one clubs. At this gathering the federation of women's clubs was born. Other organizations, such as the National Council of Women, usually thought of now because of its international scope, came into being during the Nineteenth century. In harmony with this great movement for the uplift and advancement of woman, and prior to the advent of the American Woman's Suffrage Association, the Woman's Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, on the 17th day of March, 1842, in the city of Nauvoo. The following report is an extract from The Times and Seasons of Friday, April 1, 1842:
"A society has lately been formed by the ladies of Nauvoo for the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan; and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes. The Society is known by the name of the Female Relief Society of the City of Nauvoo, and was organized on Thursday, the 17th of March, A. D. 1842.
"The Society is duly organized with a Presidentress or chairwoman, and two counselors chosen by herself; a treasurer and secretary. Mrs. Emma Smith takes the presidential chair. Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and Mrs. Sarah M. Cleveland are her counselors; Mrs. Elvira Cowles is treasuress, and our well known and talented poetess, Miss Eliza R. Snow, secretary."
The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, will commemorate its eighty-first anniversary in March, 1923. The Church was only twelve years of age when this organization was brought into being; Illinois was regarded as frontier country; John Tyler, the tenth president of the United States, was in the White House at Washington, and the country itself was just emerging from a period of great social stress and depression. The minutes of the first meeting place great emphasis on the fact that the organization has been effected for benevolent purposes. This thought born with the organization has always been kept in full view. Those who have directed the work have widened and deepened its scope so that the figures represented in the annual report of 1921, the last printed report, are of the greatest interest and indicate large growth. The membership has reached such proportions that the report shows an enrollment of 52,362 persons. During the year, 512,998 visits have been made to the homes throughout the Church by Relief Society representatives. These good women, known as teachers, have carried words of cheer, com-


fort and good-will into the many homes that they have visited. They have sought out the greatest need, which in the majority of instances, is perhaps not food, or clothing, or succor in illness, but good wholesome advice, spiritual guidance, and the instilling of a belief in the triumph of all that is praiseworthy and good in life. Trained nurses, or other persons with natural aptitude in caring for the sick, have spent 54,907 days in ministering to those who needed special care because of bodily illness. In addition to the nursing, 137,955 special visits have been made to the sick. To the other items mentioned we would call attention to the fact that nearly $100,000 has been expended for charitable purposes. In brief manner we have indicated some of the phases of work covered in the welfare activities. Another phase of Relief Society work may be termed the department of education. This department has carried through the Magazine lessons in theology, social service, and literature to 52,362 persons during the year. In this field the Society is doing nothing less than university extension work, and that on a comparatively large scale. Classes have been conducted in practically every ward where the organization exists, not infrequently by college women or by women who are especially trained for teaching. To make even a cursory survey of Relief Society work is to convince one's self that the organization is unreservedly dedicated to the welfare of mankind. It is entirely democratic, as to membership, admitting to its rank all women, irrespective of religion, social position, color or race. All may share in its social and educational benefits; all may be beneficiaries of its inspired leadership. Mr. Will Irwin, the well known newspaper correspondent, is of the opinion that the Nineteenth century will go down to history as a period of transition, a period that breaks from the past and opens new vistas for the future. Surely no Latter-day Saint will quarrel with this contention, for the Nineteenth century brought the restoration of the Gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and through him came the Relief Society; the one restored the true gospel, lost through the ages; the other turned the key to woman, giving to her, to use a scriptural phrase, "Life, and that more abundantly."