[Vol10 | March 1923 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for May - Lesson III - The Sketch Book]

LESSON IN Literature (Third Week in May) "THe SKETCH Book" What Irving did for Spain, in his priceless gift of The Alhambra (observed in last lesson), he had already done for his own and the mother country in The Sketch Book. The rich legends of the Moors, enhanced by Irving's imagination and preserved in his spicy style in the Alhambra, was merely a parallel to the sketches that had earlier captured the spirit and legends of the Dutch on the Hudson or mirrored English life and habits. These papers, over thirty in all, were published in America in 1819-20, in seven installments—all under the title of The Sketch Book. This work bears the great distinction of being the first to bring from England any recognition of America in literature. "Who reads an American book?" was the stinging challenge that went unanswered until Irving broke the crust of prejudice and literary taste. Think of it! Only a hundred years ago did our country produce what was recognized as her legitimate literary offspring. At a time when America and Americans were the ridicule of all English travelers and writers only a sky-rocket could have appeared above her horizon. Concerning this prejudice Irving indulges in bolder irony than is his custom: "A great man of Europe, thought I, must be as superior to a great man of America, as the peak of the Alps to the highland of the Hudson—I will visit this land of wonder, thought I, and see the gigantic race from which I am degenerated." From England, Irving had to send his sketches to America to be published. Immediately they were heralded as classics by Scott, Goldsmith, and other celebrities—the former interceding successfully for their publication in. England. Now what was the great contribution which this new work has made to the field of literature? Half of the papers were essays on English life, institutions, and customs, as seen through the eyes of an American. Though Irving was not a philosopher he was a keen, sympathetic observer. In the purest and most beautiful diction he transfers to his readers the fascination that he feels for beauty in scene or tradition or character or custom. Irving was certainly genuine in his admiration of much of the Old World's splendor and custom, though his American tastes and satire, often biting chipped away much of the glamor and decay of the English intitutions. The keen thrusts in John Bull, Little Britain and other essays, though covertly hidden under a condoning smile, or offset by praise, shows clearly to one who knows his English his'ory that while Irving enjoyed his old friend John Bull he saw in him the mistakes of the English Parliament and Empire and wished him different. But essays—political, social, literary, descriptive, satire, narrative—all kinds, had just been perfected even in this very field by Addison, Steele, and Swift. Irving merely added to the list of excellent literary essays. To be sure, he contributed a distinct America color, and his own beautiful diction, clear and graceful and elegant, with his narrative genius made The Sketch Book most interesting reading in this fertile period. But not for his essays is Irving most read or most honored. His unique distinction is that he gave to the world the first near 
 approach to the modern short story; second, that he is the first to make America a background for romance and legend using native characters and customs.; Until this time there had been only the long story—novel, in usually two to six volumes, or merely the tale or the narrative in verse. But when The Sketch Book brought out Rip Van Winkle, a new form of literature was revealed. A form distinctly American is the short story, not only in its inception but in its development and perfection. The one form of literature in which America excels, launched by Irving, found its greatest masters in our own Hawthorne and Poe (though France made a noble contribution) and is still the form in which numerous writers here are winning their literary laurels. Whether these stories of Irving's can be classified as the short story, as that word is used today, is a matter of dispute. Nearly every author of texts on American literature speaks of them as short stories; yet every author on the technique of the short story so limits its definition as to make it a too highly specialized form to include Irving's narratives. The popular use of the word short story may mean any narrative that is more than an anecdote or less than a novel in length. But that form of literature now known as the short story is a dramatic narrative that reveals one idea or motion. That is, a unit of action artistically narrated that gives a single impression. Judged by such a standard, nothing of Irvings could be called the short story. Yet Rip Van Winkle was decidedly the nearest approach to it. Surely it has dramatic qualities and is an interesting narrative, but certainly it does not give one single impression. Another requirement, of the modern ideal, is that a climatic series of events portray character in a struggle. But wherein does Rip make a struggle, or even attempt to shape events? He does not resolve to bring anything about; he merely wanders aimlessly away and things happen without one plan or intention of his, merely in the style of an adventure. Though Irving's stories were not cast in the mold of the present ideal short story, they are at least its worthy progenitors, and are still among our richest narrative treasures. Who does not find Rip Van Winkle an interesting story? Who has not laughed at its full ind quiet humor? Who has not been swayed by its graceful elegance and satire? A good story well told, conveying a truth or truths about life—so far it is worthy. The Legend of Sleep Hollow, though a wealth of native color and atmosphere, splashes out into a long drawn sketch only as does The Spectre Bridegroom. Even the ghost stories in them are poorly told. In The Wife, The Broken Heart, The Pride of the Village, The Widow and Her Son, sentiment runs so much to sentimentality that it cloys the taste of the present generation.