[Vol10 | March 1923 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for May - Lesson I - Heeding Counsel]

Guide Lessons for May
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in May).
HEEDING COUNSEL
The Meaning of Counsel. Webster gives a number of definitions to the word counsel. For a theological meaning he refers us to Matthew 19:21. In this lesson counsel shall mean ecclesiastical, authoritative advice including parental advice.
The Nature of Counsel. All counsel carries with it responsibility. The one who gives it becomes responsible for results, if it is obeyed; and the one receiving it becomes responsible for results, when it is not obeyed. Counsel is indicative of love and confidence. When counsel is given without an expectation of its being heeded, it takes the nature of a warning, and when it is received with a determination to follow it—the advice is at once reacted to by gratitude and the one to whom it is given accepts it as a gracious gift.
Counsel is full of free-agency.
Three Degrees of Obedience. There are persons who so love and trust their leaders that a suggestion is all that is needed to get joyous acquiescence to what is desired by recognized authority. Lovers never wait for orders from each other; they are on the alert to find out what each other's wishes are. There are those who are loath to obey anything less dictatorial than a command. Counsel has too much liberty in it for them. They serve better under a "Thou shalt," than they do under an "It is my will." There is a third class who obey. They respond not to counsel, they procrastinate with commands but they heed warnings that bristle with penalties. In the first group, love leads with confidence at its side. In the second group, respect leads followed by fear. In the third

group, fear comes to the front. One can scarcely conceive of commands being given between husband and wife. The sage who wrote, "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom," might have added, "but the love of the Lord is wisdom complete."
The Word of Wisdom as Counsel. When this revelation was first given it was presented as the mind and will of the Lord, not a command with penalties for disobedience, but a statement of truths with promises of blessings to come through its application in living. The Saints were counseled to keep the Word of Wisdom and many heeded the counsel. Then came a time when the Word of Wisdom was officially presented as a command with a curtailment of privileges as a penalty for its disregard. Today we have the constant warning of religion and science against a disregard of this revelation, and no doubt some there are, now breaking the Word of Wisdom, who would cease its violation if they were brought face to face with the alternative of giving up their standing in the Church or giving up their indulgence. The fear of punishment moves most strongly with some intelligences, while the hope of reward is most powerful with others.
Heeding counsel is a habit of those who "Seek the truth and find it, too, And in the search are glad; Are much more moved by love of good, Than by the fear of bad."
Public Counsel. The leaders in the Church responsible to the Lord for their leadership are constantly alert to the needs of the people and the conditions of the Church. They carry responsibilities incomprehensible to the laity. They have authority and inspiration from the Lord, the general approval of the people, and the support of those who heed their counsels. And these supporters are they who are proving to the Lord that they are not "slothful servants," but are possessed of a loyalty that entitles them to class ""A" consideration. The history of the Church is replete with evidence that the path of counsel-heeding has been one of safety for individuals and groups, and there is no lack of proof that disregard of counsel has been a highway to disaster. Private Counsel. One should not ask for counsel unless the asking is accompanied by a willingness and an expectation to heed the counsel. The young man who sought the advice of the Savior was worse off ee after the counsel was given than he was before. There is a difference, however, between seeking counsel and asking for an opinion, One may get the opinion of several persons on a matter and not act on the suggestion of any of them. The giving of an opinion is widely different from the giving of official counsel. The latter is entitled to reverential consideration. The right of the priesthood to give private counsel is as unquestioned as is the right of the parent to give counsel to a son or a daughter. The bishop is father of the ward as well as the common judge, and similar relations exist between the stake officers and those over whom they preside in the Priesthood. It is a serious thing to disregard private, official counsel. The Lord recognizes the counsel given by those sustained in official positions, and he will see to it that no one shall lose by heeding official counsel in his Church. It should go without saying that all private counsel given, sought, or heeded, should be in harmony with public counsel. To seek advice that would conflict with the admonitions of the authorities indicates that one is inclined to Church anarchy but is lacking the courage to strike the attitude alone. To give counsel conflicting with the general policy of an institution is akin to conspiracy against the institution. The heeding of private counsel that conflicts with public counsel pits one against the institution and one or the other must go down to defeat. Institutional Heeding of Counsel. Whenever emphasis is placed on a matter by the counsel of the general authorities that emphasis will be taken up by the organizations in the Church. If the emphasis is on attendance at sacrament meetings it will be made emphatic in the Priesthood quorums, and in the auxiliary organizations, the Church schools, and the seminaries, and 'the homes. Just now the call is for attention to Priesthood activities and this counsel will not go unheeded by the Relief Societies, for these organizations are "helps in government" as well as institutions to aid individuals. Every home will carry over the emphasis and the mother part of that "carry over" will be no second part. The counsel against going to California was in early days unheeded by some people to their sorrow. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Read or quote the scripture upon which the theological definition of counsel is based. 2. To what extent is the giver of counsel responsible? 
 3. Under what conditions does counsel take the nature of a "warning? 4. Discuss the three degrees of obedience and state what might have been profitably added to the first part of Psalm, 111:10, 6. Discuss the proposition ""Heeding counsel is essential to fitness for celestial glory." 7. Why has the Word of Wisdom passed from an expression of the will of the Lord with promises of reward for heeding it, to a command with penalties for disregarding it? 8. On what grounds may we expect that the breaking of the Word of Wisdom will yet become a bar to Church membership? 9. Why is heeding their counsel the best support that can be given to the authorities? 10. Illustrate by story that heeding public counsel is the path of safety. 11. -Bear testimony of the benefits coming to you through heeding counsel. 12. Distinguish between asking for an opinion and seeking counsel. 13. Show the folly of seeking for, heeding, or giving private counsel that conflicts with public counsel. 14. How may institutions help in the heeding of counsel? 15. Discuss heeding counsel as one of heaven's highest laws.