[Vol10 | March 1923 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Songs for Relief Society Day]

Songs for Relief Society Day On the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society, when a large jubilee was held in Salt Lake City, a hymn was composed for the celebration, by the late Mrs. Emily Hill Woodmansee. The words of this hymn, "Oh, blest was the day," appear on page 429 of the later editions of the L. D. S. Hymn Book. The words were arranged for the tune, "The Star Spangled Banner." Another song was prepared for a program on the occasion of the sixty-sixth Relief Society anniversary, in 1908. The words were written and adapted to the tune of "My Maryland," by Lillie T. Freeze. The words of these songs are printed herewith, by request, as some of the wards wish to use these hymns on their programs for the Seventeenth of March. OH, BLEST WAS THE DAY I Oh, blest was the day when the Prophet and Seer, Who stands at the head of this last dispensation, Inspir'd from above by "The Father" of Love, Form'd the Daughters of Zion's great organization. Its purpose, indeed, is to comfort and feed The honest and poor in distress and in need. Oh, the Daughters of Zion, the friends of the poor, Should be patterns of faith, hope and charity, pure. Chorus Oh, the Daughters of Zion, the friends of the poor, Should be patterns of faith, hope and charity, pure. II Oh! Daughters of Truth, ye have cause to rejoice, Lo! The key of advancement is placed in your keeping, To help with your might whatsoever is right, To gladden their hearts who are weary of weeping; By commandment divine, Zion's daughters must shine, And all of the sex, e'en as one, should combine; For a oneness of action success will ensure, In resisting the wrongs that 'tis wrong to endure. Chorus 
 Til O woman! God gave thee the longing to bless; Thy touch like Compassion's, is warm and caressing; There is power in thy weakness to soften distress, To brighten the gloom and the darkness depressing: And not in the rear, hence, need woman appear; Her star is ascending, her zenith is near. Like an angel of mercy, she'll stand in the van, The joy of the world, and the glory of man. Chorus IV Oh, be of good cheer, far-extending we see, The rosy-hued dawn like a vision of beauty; Its glory and light can interpreted be: Go on in the pathway of love and of duty! The brave, earnest soul will arrive at its goal; True heroes are crowned as the ages unroll; There is blessing in blessing, admit it we must, And there's honor in helping a cause that is just. Chorus —E. H. Woodmonsee. THE RELIEF SOCIETY We're organized throughout the land For charity, sweet charity; Our aim is noble, purpose grand, For charity, sweet charity; The prophet of the latter-days, Inspired by truth's enlight'ning rays, Has taught the world some better ways, For charity, sweet charity. Oh come and join our worthy cause, For charity, sweet charity; And help fulfil our Father's laws, For charity, sweet charity; The gospel to the poor shall go, Soul hunger they may never know, But in the truth, forever grow, With charity, sweet charity.