Mary immediately after the annunciation of Gabriel to her hastened from Nazareth to the home of her cousin Elizabeth; of the manner of her salutation to Elizabeth and of Elizabeth's response and of how the visit of Elizabeth extended into months. (Luke 1: 5-55.) Both before and at the time of the birth of her child of promise Eliabeth was blessed with the presence of the Holy Ghost. She was the first mortal to declare orally that the Baptist's name should be John, although she had doubtless learned this from her husband who must have written a great deal to her during his period of enforced silence. At the event of the enunciation and naming of John, Elizabeth drops out of sight. What is known of her later must be taken from inference. That she performed the duties of noble motherhood seems clear in the light of the scripture, "And the child grew and waxed strong in the spirit." (Luke 1:80.) Elizabeth was the fifth woman of Biblical record who after a long period of barrenness bore a child in fulfilment of divine promise. Those who preceded her were: Rebecca, mother of Isaac (Gen. 17:16, 17), the mother of Samson (Judges 13), Hannah; the mother of Samuel (I Sam. 1). The Shumanite mother (II Kings 4). What the grief of barrenness was to a wife is depicted in the story of Hannah's childless life, and what the joy of expectancy was is summed up in the rapturous expressions of Elizabeth. Elizabeth was never barren in spirit; she was always fruitful in desire. Such women may be reproached by society, but God honors them. The choosing of the aged, childless Elizabeth to become the mother of the forerunner of Christ, and declaring her son to be second to no prophet ever born, leave no room for the belief that physical barrenness is a mark of disfavor in the eyes of the Lord. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Mention two occasions on which Elizabeth was blessed with the presence of the Holy Ghost. (Luke 1:15-41.) 2. Wherein was the divine instruction concerning the child of promise that should be born to Elizabeth different from the divine instruction concerning Samson the child of promise? (Judges 13:3-4; Luke 1:5.) 3. Discuss the statement: "Looking on barrenness with reproach makes for good in the world." 4. What-was the source of the utterance of Elizabeth recorded in Luke 1:43? 5. Wherein is the life of Elizabeth of most value to the women of today?;