97 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in April) Paul Laurence Dunbar February always brings to mind the name of the great emancipator of the colored man. For that reason we have selected the outstanding poet of the colored people for the February issue of the Magazine. Abraham Lincoln and Paul Laurence Dunbar have each, in turn, served the colored men in an extraordinary way. The first struck from him the shackles of slavery, and the second revealed to him, through his inimitable art, negro personality as it is distinguished from other types. Everybody knows that the negro is superstitious?that a part, at least, of his religion is made up of superstition. Everybody who has watched these people at their play, heard them laugh and talk, knows that they are not without wit. As a consequence it is pleasing to discover these qualities in the writings of any poet who really seeks to represent them. Paul Laurence Dunbar was born in 1872, at Dayton, Ohio. His father and mother were negro slaves, consequently he was indebted to Lincoln for the fact that he was born in freedom rather than slavery. He ran an elevator for a number of years while a boy?indeed it was while he was serving in this capacity that he wrote his first poems. He tried newspaper work, but it was not in line with his special talent. The government turned in kindness towards him, as it had often done in the past, in its desire to assist men of literary genius. They could not give Dunbar a post in the Custom House, as Edwin Arlington Robinson had been given, or Nathaniel: Hawthorne, many years before, but they did give him a pau in the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C. He has given us three forms of composition?two in prose and one in poetry. He has written several volumes of short stories, and two novels, but it is in lyric poetry that he excels, particularly those of negro dialect. In this line he has no competition. He has done for the negro what Rudyard Kipling has done for the soldiers in barracks in India, and well known types of British in his own country; in other words, it is the use he makes of local color that marks him as a man of genius as much as any other quality he possesses. One thing surprising about Dunbar is the fact that he is of negro descent without any mixture. William Dean Howells is responsible for the statement that as far as he could remember "Paul Dunbar was the only man of pure African blood and of American civilization to feel the negro life aesthetically and express it lyrically." 
 His works consist of a collection of Lyrics of Lowly Life, published in 1896; Lyrics of the Hearthside, published in 1899; Lyrics of Love and Laughter, published in 1903; Lyrics of Sunshine and Shadow, published in 1905. The last named volume, while it contains outstanding poems, is not as original as the others. A number of "gift-book editions" have been published. No greater compliment can be paid the poet's sense of rhythm, than to record the fact that he has made very general appeal to composers, for an unusual number have set his verse to music. He died in the city of Dayton, February 10, 1916, at the age of 44. It is a source of satisfaction to realize that he had done so much good work, even though his life was snapped in its prime. As an example of his dialect poems we quote "The Turning of the Babies in the Bed," which has a humorous and human touch that will appeal to mothers universally: THE TURNING OF THE BABIES IN THE BED Woman's sho' a cur'ous critter, An' day ain't no doubtin' dat. She's a mess o' funny capahs f'om Huh slippahs to huh hat. Ef you tries to un'erstan' huh, an' You fails, des' up an' say: "D' ain't a bit o' use to try to Un'erstan' a woman's way." I don't mean to be complainin', but I's jes' a-settin' down Some o' my own obserwations, _W'en I cas' my eye eroun'. If you ax me fw' to prove it, I Ken do it mighty fine, Fu' dey ain't: no bettah 'zample Den dis ve'y wife o' mine. In de ve'ty hea't o' midnight, w'en I's sleepin' good an' soun', I kin hyeah a so't o' rustlin' an' Somebody movin' 'roun'. An' I say, "Lize, whut you doin'?" But she frown an' shek huh haid. "Heish yo' mouf, I's only tu'nin' Of de chillun in de bed. "Don' you know a child gits restless, Layin' all de night one way? An' you' got to kind o' 'range him Sev'al times befo' de day? "So de little necks won't worry, an' De little backs won't break; Don' you t'ink case chillun's chilun day Hain't got no pain an' ache." So she shakes 'em, an' she twists 'em, An' she tu'ns 'em 'roun' erbout, 'Twell I don' see how de chillun Evah keeps f'om hollahin' out. Den she lif's 'em up head down'ards So's dey won't git livah-grown, But dey snoozes des' ez peaceful Ez a liza'd on a stone. W'en hit's mos' nigh time fu' Wakin' on de dawn o' jedgment day, Seems lak I kin hyeah ol' Gab'iel Lay his trumpet down an' say, "Who dat walkin' 'roun' so easy, Down on earf ermong de dead?" ?T will be Lizy up a-tu'nin' Of de chillun in de bed. "A Coquette Conquered" is another example of his dialect poetry. A Coquette CONQUERED Yes, my ha't 's ha'd ez stone? Go 'way, Sam, an' lemme 'lone. No; I ain't gwine change my min'? Ain't gwine ma'y you?Nuffin' de kin'. Phiny loves you true an' deah? Go ma'y Phiny; whut I keer? Oh, you needn't mou'n an' cry? I don't keer how soon you die. Got a present! Whut you got? Somef'n fu' de pan er pot! Huh! Yo' sass do sholy beat? Think I don't git 'nough to eat? Whut's dat un'neaf yo' coat? Looks des lak a little shoat '"T ain't no possum! Bless de Lamb! Yes, it is, you rascal, Sam! 
 Gin it to me; whut you say? Ain't you sma't'now! Oh, go 'way! Possum do look mighty nice, But you ax too big a price. Tell me, is you talkin' true, Dat's de gal's whut ma'ies you? Come back, Sam; now whah' s you gwine? Co'se you knows 'dat pores Ss mine! His poems, like his stories, have been very popular. There are few American students who will not recall "Angelina." We quote the first stanza of this poem: When de fiddle gits to singin' out a ol' Vahginny reel, As' you 'mence to feel a ticklin' in yo' toe an' in yo' heel; Ef you t'ink you got 'uligion an' you wants to keep it, too You jes' bettah tek a hint an' git yo'self clean out o' view. Case de time is mighty temptin' when de chune is in de swing, Fw' a darky, saint or sinner man, to cut de pigeon-wing. An' you couldn't he'p f'om dancin' ef yo' feet was boun' wif twine When Angelina Johnson comes a? a-Swingin' down de line. His "Miss Lucy" poems have been very popular. Entitled "Discovered" is particularly keen. DISCOVERED Seen you down at ch'ch las' night, Nevah min', Miss Lucy. What I mean? Oh, dat's all right, Nevah min', Miss Lucy. You was sma't ez sma't could be, But you couldn't hide f'om me. Ain't I got two eyes to see! Nevah min', Miss Lucy. The one GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL Guess you thought you's awful keen; Nevah min', Miss Lucy. Evahthing you done, I seen; Nevah min', Miss Lucy. Seen him tek yo' ahm jes' so, When he got outside de do' Oh, I know dat man's yo' beau! Nevah min', Miss Lucy. Say now, honey, wha'd he say?? Nevah min', Miss Lucy! Keep yo' secrets?dat's yo' way? Nevah min', Miss Lucy. Won't tell me an' I'm yo' pal? I'm gwine tell his othah gal,? Know huh, too, huh name is Sal; Nevah min', Miss Lucy! 101 His poems of advice are interesting. We include under this heading "A Golden Day," and "The Unlucky Apple." poems. A GoLpEN Day I found you and I lost you, All on a gleaming day. The day was filled with sunshin, e And the land was full of 'May. A golden bird was singing Its melody divine, I found you and I loved you, And all the world was mine. I found you and I lost you, All on a golden day, But when I dream of you, dear, It is always brimming May.| Tue Untucky APPLE *Twas the apple that in Eden | Caused our father's primal fall; And the Trojan War, remember? *T was an apple caused it all. So for weeks I've hesitated, You can guess the reason why, For I want to tell my darling She's the apple of my eye. We include "A Flordia Night," as an example of his J nature | 
 A Ftroripa NIGHT Win' a-blowin' gentle so de san' lay low, San' a little heavy f'om de rain, All de pa'ms a-wavin' an' a-weavin' slow, Sighin' lak a sinnah-soul in pain. Alligator grinnin' by de ol' lagoon, Mockin'-bird a-singin' to de big full moon, 'Skeeter go a'skimmin' to his 'fightin' chune (Lizy Ann's a-waitin' in de lane!) Moccasin a-sleepin' in de cyprus swamp; Needn't wake de gent'man, not fu' me. - Mule, you needn't wake him w'en you switch an' stomp, Fightin' off a 'skeeter er a flea. Florida is lovely, she's de fines' lan' Evah seed de sunlight f'0m de Mastah's han', 'Ceptin' fu' de varmints an' huh Fleas an' san' An' de nights w'en Lizy Ann ain' free. Moon's a-kinder shaddered on de melon patch; No one ain't a-watchin' ez I go. Climbin' of de fence so's not to click de latch Meks my gittin' in a little slow. Watermelon smilin' as it say, "I's free;" Alligator boomin', but I let him be, Florida, oh, Florida's de lan' fu' me? (Lizy Ann a-singin' sweet an' low.) QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Tell a story that goes to prove that the negro is superstitious. 2. Relate some incident or tell a story that reveals the negro's sense of humor. 3. Tell something about a negro camp meeting, or in some other way try to describe the negro's style of worship. 4. If it is convenient read what you think to be the most significant parts of the Emancipation Proclamation. 5. Name some other persons of the colored race beside Paul Laurence Dunbar that you think have achieved something worth while. GUIDE LESSONS