nihilated. The ownership of a universe without comradeship would be poverty in comparison to the possession of a cave with a companion. The |Lord knew that the highest happiness among men comes through their living in love with one another and he was well acquainted with' the law of love's growth which is a statement of a uniform way in which the soul energy, love, acts. We grow to love in the direction of willing service. In obedience to this law of love-growth our love for the Lord grows, our love for our country grows, our love for our church grows, our love for our neighbor grows. 'We are unconsciously filled with self love because of our constant, willing, self service, and may become consciously filled with the love for our neigbors through neighborly conduct unto them that the second great commandment calls for. - The Possibility of Obeying the Commandment: In the shadows of the selfishness of human nature and in the shades of the dismal failures of the past, some sincere souls are asking, "Js Christianity practicable?" and their question of course includes the inquiry, Is it possible to keep the second great commandment?" In the light of the generosity of the divinity in man and in the. Glow of the brilliant successes in lines of helpfulness, multitudes are saying—Christianity can be carried over into life. The name of the Good Samaritan of today is legion and groups are rare in which the iron rule of "An eye for an eye' could receive a vote equal to the one that would be cast for the second great commandment. In helping, we must. Not lose the power to help, and we will not if we give through the channels the Lord has prepared—tithes and offerings. Questions and Problems 1. What evidence have we that the second great commandmen was given in all the gospel dispensations? 2. What is the purpose of the commandment? 3. Can heaven exist where this commandment is not obeyed? 4, Wherein does the Lord's prayer make obedience to this commandment essential to salvation? 5. Discuss: 'Loving our neighbors as ourselves consists in wishing, willing, and working to the end that they merit, possess, and enjoy equally with ourselves." 6. Correlate the second great command with a favorite hymn of the Prophet Joseph Smith—"A poor wayfaring man of grief." 7. Show the relationship between the second great commandment and the words of the Apostle James recorded in James 1:27. 8. What does the Apostle James call the second great commandment? (See James IT). 
 9. State the law of love growth. 10. Assign the following question to the whole class, each member being requested to think it over and converse about it and bring her answer, yes or no, to the next meeting:—Is that state of mind a desirable one that would cause you to feel like saying to your neighbor, "I want to be happy, but I won't be happy 'til I make you happy too'?. From what point of view do the well-to-do have need of the needy neighbors?, 12. Discuss the proposition: There is no place in the universe where the gospel can't be taken except into a rebellious heart. 1 Peter 3:19-22,