[Vol50 | August 1963 | Page 592 | Home | Clear Up Sewing Clutter | Shirley Thulin]
[Clear Up Sewing Clutter Shirley Thulin]

In recipes for cakes and other baked goods, the dry milk may simply be added to or sifted with the other dry ingredients in the recipe. 'Then, water may be used for the required liquid. Other liquids, as stock, fruit juice, or even additional milk, may also be used, depending upon the recipe. You may adapt most of your favorite baking recipes for the use of dry milk in this way. There will be differences in the compactness of packing of various types of nonfat dry milk, especially instant dry milk, and it is therefore best to follow package directions when mixing with water to reconstitute, or in deciding how much dry milk to substitute for liquid milk in a recipe. Usually, three-fourths cup of a regular or noninstant powder or one and one-third cups of an instant powder to one quart of water are recommended. When mixing, it is best to sprinkle the powder on top of the water and beat or mix thoroughly. The mixture — may be shaken in a tightly covered jar. Water at room temperature or slightly warmer will make it possible to mix the milk more easily and completely. If the milk is used for drinking, either alone or mixed with 592 THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT varying proportions of liquid whole milk, it will be improved by chilling in the refrigerator overnight. The newer processing methods have produced a very palatable instant product for drinking purposes, as well as for use in cooking. A light and airy product for topping may be made by whipping nonfat milk solids. Equal measures of dry milk and water are usually satisfactory for this purpose. Make sure that your bow] is the nght size for the amount of mixture you are whipping, so that thorough mixing can take place. The bowl, beaters, and water should be icy cold. Place the water in the bowl, sprinkle the milk solids over the top, and beat, first at low speed and then at high speed, until stiff. Scrape down the sides of the bowl occasionally. A little lemon juice may be added for stability. Sugar may be added after the mixture is stiffly beaten. The topping will not hold up for long periods of time, but makes a pleasing, economical product when used immediately. The use of dry milk offers nutrition, convenience, and economy. Make the most of it. You really need no special recipes. Often, only a simple substitution is necessary. A few recipes are offered here, however, to help you get started. Pineapple Breakfast Cake Sift dry ingredients together and stir into sugar and egg mixture — do not beat. % c. Sugar Spread batter in greased g-inch square pan % c. Soft shortening and sprinkle with pineapple topping. Bake 1 egg at 375° for 25 to 30 minutes. "2 c. Water 1% c. All-purpose flour Pie anele Tosuiee 2 tbsp. Regular or 3 tbsp. Instant nonfat dried milk solids 3 tbsp. Softened margarine or butter 3 tbsp. Brown sugar % c. Drained crushed pineapple 1% tsp. Baking powder "2 tsp. Salt Mix sugar, shortening, and egg together Mix together thoroughly and sprinkle thoroughly. Stir in gradually % c. Water. On top of batter before baking. 


 2% c. Lukewarm water (110 - 115° F. For active dry yeast) % c. Brown sugar or molasses 1 pkg. Active dry yeast (1 cake compressed yeast may be used) tbsp. Salt c. Soft shortening or oil c. Regular or 24 c. Instant nonfat dried milk solids 5% - 6c. Whole-wheat flour Measure water and sugar into large mixing bow]; add yeast and stir. Add salt and shortening. Mix milk solids and 2 c. Of the flour together; add to yeast mixture and stir. Add additional flour to form a soft dough. Turn dough onto lightly floured board and knead until smooth and elastic and dough does not stick to board. Return to clean mixing bowl; lightly grease top of dough to prevent drying. Cover, put in a warm place, and allow dough to double in bulk — about 1-1% hours. Push dough down. Turn out on very lightly floured board and shape into two loaves. Place in greased standard size loaf pans, 7% x 3% x 2% inches. Let rise until doubled in bulk — about 45 minutes. Bake in preheated oven at 4oo° F. For 35 to 45 minutes. Yield: 2 loaves. "If desired, dried milk may be reconstituted in the 2% c. Water, the milk scalded, and then cooled to the proper temperature before yeast is added. % package lemon-flavored gelatin "2 ¢. Boiling water "% C. Sugar "4 c. Lemon juice ' tsp. Grated lemon rind % c. Regular or 1% c. Instant nonfat dried milk solids % c. Water 594 Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Add sugar, lemon juice, and lemon rind, and stir until dissolved. Place in refrigerator until gelatin mixture begins to thicken. Have %4 c. Water, bowl, and beater very cold. Sprinkle dried milk on top of water and beat mixture until stiff. Beat gelatin mixture into whipped milk. Pour into 8-inch pie pan lined with baked pastry shell or graham cracker crust. Chill until firm. Yield: Filling for one 8-inch pie. '2 c. Flour '2 c. Margarine * ¥% c. Regular nonfat dry milk 1 tsp. Salt Cut flour and dry milk into margarine with pastry blender until pieces are very fine. Store in bottle in refrigerator until ready to use. For each 1 cup medium white sauce needed take % c. Mix and 1 c. Water. Add small amount of water to mix and blend to a paste. Add remainder of water and heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil one minute. Yield: 4 cups medium white sauce. For 1 cup thin white sauce use 4 c. Mix; for 1 cup thick white sauce use % c. Mix. *For instant nonfat dry milk, follow directions above, using 144 c.