[Vol50 | August 1963 | Page 602 | Home | Hints fora Happy Day Janet | W. Breeze]
Hints for a Happy Day *s, = i, Pa Janet W. Breeze i, s s 4 f, 2 WA arirarer cleaner makes a good 4 Ss modeling dough for children to use and 4 seems more pliable than the kind you % would normally buy. It can be easily 4 stored in a plastic bag in your refrigerator. 4 The molded creations can be dried in a 2 day or two and then painted with water 4 s Are your little ones learning to dress 2 themselves? Iron four-color transfers onto the fronts of undershirts and panties for fewer turnabouts. A long, heavy shoelace (the kind you lace a shoe skate with) is excellent for "@,, stringing empty spools. Z S z & i 3 e colors. & 3 & * *. Oe "ge 'S%g9 Me ep. Me, « ¢ "fase Ping, Pohl Drawer Dividends ORDER OF THE DAY Ever heard this one before? You neatly fold each clean little undershirt, pair of socks, and coveralls, and place them in their own special corner of the drawer. Along comes you-know-who, looking for his or her little Sunday handkerchief and. "That's no drawer,'' you say, "it's the inside of a wind tunnel." The next time this happens at your house, regardless of the age of the individual involved, start filling each drawer with shoe boxes, deep candy boxes—anything—that will hold and separate the articles of apparel, and just see if the situation doesn't improve. *. Oh yes — one word of caution. To avoid utter havoc and stuck drawers, please don't put the lids back on the boxes. REAL TOP-DRAWER If you are one of those mothers or grandmothers who delights in buying educational toys (you know—those colorful little plastic things which are quickly subdivided into complicated pigces), and then you spend each ensuing day hearing them crunch underfoot—make a rule! _ Keep such items separate from other toys and completely out of the child's reach. Then — issue these put-together toys, one group at a time, and only after the previous model has been re-assembled and returned. 601 Martha B. Anderson Makes Afghans of Original Designs Marra Bowen Anderson, Salt Lake City, Utah, enjoys her hobby of making afghans of unusual designs. She has set herself the goal of making an afghan for each of her children and each of her grandchildren. To date she has made sixteen afghans, eight of them for friends who admired her work and asked her to make an afghan for them. Her most original designs were scout patterns. Each merit badge earned was copied on an afghan block, and then the blocks were set together to complete the afghan. Complying with the request of one of her grandsons, Mrs. Anderson made a special knitted afghan in the pattern chosen by the grandson. Mrs. Anderson is also an expert quilter and makes beautiful tatted lace and trimmings. Her needlepoint work and her hooked rugs have received much admiration, and she tries every new handicraft presented in Relief Society work meetings. Early in her married life Mrs. Anderson was widowed. She completed her education and taught school for thirty-one years. In 1951 she was chosen "Mother of the Year' for Tooele County. She helped to educate her children. The daughter has a master's degree in nutrition, and the son is a psychiatrist. 602 Synopsis: Luana Harrington, her husband Ben, his mother Tutu, and the children, Philip, Pixie, Bo, and Benjy, who live on a pineapple plantation on the island of Maui, plan to go to Honolulu to meet the eldest daughter in the family, Emma Lu, who has graduated as a nurse in San Francisco, and is returning home. BS anys ran around the table to Luana and put his head on_ her shoulder. "Mama," he whispered. "Did I do something wrong? I didn't know Bo drew the picture. Honest, Mama." "No, dear," Luana soothed him, holding him closely. "It wasn't drawing the picture of Drucie that was so wrong, although that is a very unkind thing to do. But letting Charlie take the blame is very, very wrong." Philip looked at his wrist watch. He shrugged his shoulders, significantly. Pixie said in a soft little voice, "Tl stay home with Bo, if Daddy won't let him go." Tutu said quickly, "No, dear. I will stay. I have seen the ship come in many times. I don't want you to miss it." The door opened. Bo followed his father back to the table. Every- 


 one breathed a sigh of relief as thev looked at them. Bo was smiling. "Bo and I decided that he owes Charlie an apology. Also Miss Carson and his classmates. But we also decided that he will take care of that tomorrow at school. Today, we'll all go to meet Emma Lu when the big white ship comes in!" "Goodie!" Benjv velled. "Oh, goodie, Daddy!" "Thanks," Luana murmured. Ben looked at Philip. "Bring the station wagon to the side door so Tutu won't have to go down the steps," he said kindly. "We're dining at the Halekulani." "Hurray!" Pixie jumped to her feet. "The Halekulani is my favorite place. I'll order stuffed fish. No diet for me today!" "You can climb the ladder on shipside, can't you?" Benjy asked Tutu. Tutu shook her head. "I'm too old to climb ladders, Benjy. [ll wait on the pier while you all go out in the launch." "Let's get the show on the road," Phil called impatiently from the doorway. "We have to be at the airport in twenty-five minutes and it's ten miles away. Planes won't wait — even for the Harringtons!"' Ar three o'clock, Luana stood on the pier in Honolulu, watching with her family as the great white liner from San Francisco moved majestically across the water near Diamond Head. Thev were waiting for a launch to take them out to meet the ship. "Oh, Mama! Just look! The whole world is a fairvland," Pixie exclaimed. 604 "I am_ looking, dear,' Luana answered. "The color, the music, the laughing, singing people. I love it all!" "And the leis!" Tutu said gaily. "IT have never seen such leis in all my years. And flowers in everyone's hair!" "It's like seeeing the rainbow come to life," Luana said, ecstatically. "I could dance on the waves, Tutu." Ben drew her arm through his, holding her hand tightly. "T remember the first time you saw all this," he whispered. "It was part of our honeymoon." Luana could hardly breathe for joy. She put her hands out, reaching upward. "Ben — it's raining!" "Why sure!" he laughed. "Who objects to a little liquid sunshine. That's part of Hawaii." "The Hawaiian girls on_ that launch will get their ti-leaf skirts wet," Pixie cried. "They don't care," Phil laughed. "Look — here's our launch. Come on, family!" All of them but Tutu hurried down the long wooden ramp into the waiting launch. She waited on the pier. "Here goes!" a passenger beside Luana called out as he tossed several coins into the churning waters surrounding the big ship. Hawaiian boys, their bronze bodies bobbing about, watched the coins strike the water, making bubbles as they sank — dollars, dimes, quarters. Squealing and pushing each other, the boys dived after them, stuffing them in their cheeks as they grabbed them. "I miss the sea gulls in these waters," Luana said to Ben. "I thought they were in every harbor in the world." "Not here," Ben explained. '""Thev don't like Hawaiian waters. 'They were brought here once, but died of homesickness, folks said. We have plenty of birds, though. Look at those frigate birds sliding across the water now. Aren't they graceful?" "Well — yes," Luana admitted. "But I love the sea gulls best." "Of course you do," Ben said. "T love them, too, because they were an answer to prayer when the saints needed help." A huge plane roared across the sky. Benjy and Bo leaned their heads back, following it with their eyes. "That's a multi-engine jet," Phil told them. "Boy, is it fast!" "Faster than a dart," Bo said, his voice awestruck. "Or this," Benjy said, knifing his hand through the air. "Can we fly again with you and Larry, Phil? Bo savs Larrys stuck on Emma Lu, doesn't he, Phil?" Philip glared at his little brothers sitting opposite him. "Suppose he is,' he clipped. "That's his business. You talk too much." "They sure do," Pixie agreed. Luana, listening to them, met Ben's eyes. He had heard, too. She knew that he was thinking Larry Brown would have to settle down if he wanted Emma Lu. He was a pilot for Transocean Airlines now. He and Emma Lu had been schoolday sweethearts, but she had been away for three years. She would be grown up and professional now.
