[Vol50 | August 1963 | Page 591 | Home | Peach-Stone Jelly Mary | L. Allred]
Allred I save all the peach stones, and put them in a cooking kettle, as I peel the peaches. When I am done with a bushel of peaches, I then make this jelly. The recipe is as follows: Cover the peach stones with boiling water. Let simmer for two or three minutes. Then allow to stand overnight. Next morning, strain juice through a cloth and cook with the peach jelly recipe which you will find with the type of pectin you use for other jelly. Each bushel of peaches provides about enough pits for one full recipe of jelly. My peach-stone jelly did not seem like much, but we considered it well worth the effort. It has a deliciously different taste, and is a beautiful peachy pink. I use even the stones that are open as long as they are not moldy. Shirley Thulin 1. Have a definite centralized place for all of your sewing, be it the mending, the unfinished tea towels, or Aunt Kate's Christmas gift in the making. 2. Put all the odds and ends in shoe boxes and label them well. This helps you to find the trims, the zippers, the buttons, the correct material for patches, at a moment's notice. 3. Keep a box or basket with "'pick-up'" work handy, so that when you have only a moment, you can put it to good advantage. 4. Keep your good scissors, a thimble, needle and thread, box of pins, and the measurements of your family (taken every four months or so) in a box, ready for immediate use when you want to begin a new garment. 5- Keep all of yaur different colored thread in a handy spool container. You can make one yourself by taking a piece of plywood the desired size and hammering in nails or pegs about two inches apart. Always buy an extra spool of thread when you buy your material, to use when you need to patch or mend it. 591 Part I — DRY MILK Marion Bennion, Ph. D., Chairman, Department of Food and Nutrition Sadie O. Morris, Ph. D., Department of Food and Nutrition Brigham Young University IVA osr of the water is removed from fresh, liquid skim milk to obtain nonfat dry milk. This, then, is a mixture of protein, milk sugar, minerals, and some of the water soluble vitamins, especially riboflavin. The use of drv milk in many dishes may be an excellent way of stepping up the nutritive value of your family's meals. And, if economy is the keynote in your food budget, dry milk will fit nicely into 'your plan. It is one of the most economical forms of milk you can buy, costing only about one half as much per quart as comparable fluid skim milk. It is convenient to store, since it does not require refrigeration and takes very little shelf space. It should be kept, however, in a tightly covered container so that it is not left open to the air. Storage temperatures no higher than 75° F. Are preferable, also. I I I Dry milk is cong emieat to use. It may be reconstituted with water and used as any liquid milk if it is a grade "A" product and clean utensils are used in the mixing process. It may also be used in many cases as the dry product. In recipes for cakes and other baked goods, the dry milk may simply be added to or sifted with the other dry ingredients in the recipe. 'Then, water may be used for the required liquid. Other liquids, as stock, fruit juice, or even additional milk, may also be used, depending upon the recipe. You may adapt most of your favorite baking recipes for the use of dry milk in this way. There will be differences in the compactness of packing of various types of nonfat dry milk, especially instant dry milk, and it is therefore best to follow package directions when mixing with water to reconstitute, or in deciding how much dry milk to substitute for liquid milk in a recipe. Usually, three-fourths cup of a regular or noninstant powder or one and one-third cups of an instant powder to one quart of water are recommended. When mixing, it is best to sprinkle the powder on top of the water and beat or mix thoroughly. The mixture — may be shaken in a tightly covered jar. Water at room temperature or slightly warmer will make it possible to mix the milk more easily and completely. If the milk is used for drinking, either alone or mixed with 592 THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT varying proportions of liquid whole milk, it will be improved by chilling in the refrigerator overnight. The newer processing methods have produced a very palatable instant product for drinking purposes, as well as for use in cooking. A light and airy product for topping may be made by whipping nonfat milk solids. Equal measures of dry milk and water are usually satisfactory for this purpose. Make sure that your bow] is the nght size for the amount of mixture you are whipping, so that thorough mixing can take place. The bowl, beaters, and water should be icy cold. Place the water in the bowl, sprinkle the milk solids over the top, and beat, first at low speed and then at high speed, until stiff. Scrape down the sides of the bowl occasionally. A little lemon juice may be added for stability. Sugar may be added after the mixture is stiffly beaten. The topping will not hold up for long periods of time, but makes a pleasing, economical product when used immediately. The use of dry milk offers nutrition, convenience, and economy. Make the most of it. You really need no special recipes. Often, only a simple substitution is necessary. A few recipes are offered here, however, to help you get started. Pineapple Breakfast Cake Sift dry ingredients together and stir into sugar and egg mixture — do not beat. % c. Sugar Spread batter in greased g-inch square pan % c. Soft shortening and sprinkle with pineapple topping. Bake 1 egg at 375° for 25 to 30 minutes. "2 c. Water 1% c. All-purpose flour Pie anele Tosuiee 2 tbsp. Regular or 3 tbsp. Instant nonfat dried milk solids 3 tbsp. Softened margarine or butter 3 tbsp. Brown sugar % c. Drained crushed pineapple 1% tsp. Baking powder "2 tsp. Salt Mix sugar, shortening, and egg together Mix together thoroughly and sprinkle thoroughly. Stir in gradually % c. Water. On top of batter before baking. 


 2% c. Lukewarm water (110 - 115° F. For active dry yeast) % c. Brown sugar or molasses 1 pkg. Active dry yeast (1 cake compressed yeast may be used) tbsp. Salt c. Soft shortening or oil c. Regular or 24 c. Instant nonfat dried milk solids 5% - 6c. Whole-wheat flour Measure water and sugar into large mixing bow]; add yeast and stir. Add salt and shortening. Mix milk solids and 2 c. Of the flour together; add to yeast mixture and stir. Add additional flour to form a soft dough. Turn dough onto lightly floured board and knead until smooth and elastic and dough does not stick to board. Return to clean mixing bowl; lightly grease top of dough to prevent drying. Cover, put in a warm place, and allow dough to double in bulk — about 1-1% hours. Push dough down. Turn out on very lightly floured board and shape into two loaves. Place in greased standard size loaf pans, 7% x 3% x 2% inches. Let rise until doubled in bulk — about 45 minutes. Bake in preheated oven at 4oo° F. For 35 to 45 minutes. Yield: 2 loaves. "If desired, dried milk may be reconstituted in the 2% c. Water, the milk scalded, and then cooled to the proper temperature before yeast is added. % package lemon-flavored gelatin "2 ¢. Boiling water "% C. Sugar "4 c. Lemon juice ' tsp. Grated lemon rind % c. Regular or 1% c. Instant nonfat dried milk solids % c. Water 594 Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Add sugar, lemon juice, and lemon rind, and stir until dissolved. Place in refrigerator until gelatin mixture begins to thicken. Have %4 c. Water, bowl, and beater very cold. Sprinkle dried milk on top of water and beat mixture until stiff. Beat gelatin mixture into whipped milk. Pour into 8-inch pie pan lined with baked pastry shell or graham cracker crust. Chill until firm. Yield: Filling for one 8-inch pie. '2 c. Flour '2 c. Margarine * ¥% c. Regular nonfat dry milk 1 tsp. Salt Cut flour and dry milk into margarine with pastry blender until pieces are very fine. Store in bottle in refrigerator until ready to use. For each 1 cup medium white sauce needed take % c. Mix and 1 c. Water. Add small amount of water to mix and blend to a paste. Add remainder of water and heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil one minute. Yield: 4 cups medium white sauce. For 1 cup thin white sauce use 4 c. Mix; for 1 cup thick white sauce use % c. Mix. *For instant nonfat dry milk, follow directions above, using 144 c. Instant dry milk. For medium white sauce use % c. Mix; for thin white sauce use % C. Mix; for thick white sauce use % c. Mix. Water may be added directly to the mix without mixing in paste first. 4 c. Diced raw potatoes 2 c. Boiling water 4 tbsp. Diced salt pork 1 onion, chopped 2 c. Canned, creamed style or frozen corn 1 c. Regular or 124 c. Instant dry milk 1 c. Water 1% tbsp. Salt dash pepper 2 tbsp. Chopped parsley Cook potatoes in water for ten minutes. Sauté salt pork and onion gently for five minutes or until pork is crisp; add to potatoes.

Add corn and cook gently until potatoes are done. Mix dry milk to a smooth paste with water; add paste, salt, and pepper to soup. Heat thoroughly over boiling water, add chopped parsley Serves six to eight. And serve. THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT Y, c. Macaroni, broken into pieces 1% c. Water or fluid milk ¥% c. Regular or % c. Instant dry milk, whole or nonfat 2 tbsp. Flour "2 tsp. Salt 1% tbsp. Fat 1% c. Grated cheese 4 hard-cooked eggs, sliced crumbs mixed with melted fat For added milk value, use 2%4 c. Dry milk and 1% tbsp. Flour, in place of amounts given above. Cook macaroni in boiling water until tender. Drain and discard cooking water. Put the water or fluid milk into a pan; add dry milk, flour, and salt. Beat until smooth. Add fat and cook over very low heat or boiling water until thickened, stirring as necessary to prevent sticking or lumping. Remove from heat and stir in cheese. Place macaroni in a greased dish, cover with the eggs, and add the cheese sauce. Sprinkle crumbs over top. Brown in moderate oven 350° F. For about twenty minutes. Serves six.