[Vol50 | August 1963 | Page 596 | Home | Stretching the Food Budget Part I — Dry Milk Marion Bennion and Sadie | O. Morris]
[Stretching the Food Budget Part I — Dry Milk Marion Bennion and Sadie O. Morris]
The Rehef society Magazine AUGUST 1963 WOLUME 50 NUMBER 8 Editor: Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor: Vesta P. Crawford General Manager: Belle S. Spafford 76 North Main, Sait Lake City 11, Utah; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscripti6n expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts RELIEF SOCIETY A Blessing to Young Women Belva Barlow Member, General Board of Relief Society Children are what their mothers are. No fondest father's fondest care Can fashion so the infant heart. —Walter Savage Landor I. THE above quotation is true, how necessary it is for us, as Relief Society sisters, to prepare ourselves for this noble calling of motherhood. And if, as is stated, the first five or six years are the most significant in determining a person's character, then proper early guidance of a child is of extreme importance. President Brigham Young stated that "The mothers are the moving instruments in the hands of Providence to guide the destinies of nations." And in this light we should evaluate our present or future tasks as homemaker, wife, and mother. Because the future lies in the hands of the young, it is to the young women of the Church that I address myself. Young women have always played a significant part in shaping the destinies of mankind; young women made the long and arduous voyage with an unknown future to the "New World" in answer to their husbands' cries for freedom; young women endured the rigors and privations of the cold New England winters with the barest of necessities; they moved westward across the 564 Appalachians into a wild, lonely country and lived in the shadow of death from cold, hunger, or illness; later yet, for their faith, they made the perilous trek over mountains and plains to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, leaving loved ones buried back along the trail. These are but a few examples of how young women have met the challenges of their days. We can and must meet the challenge of our day. The victor's crown is the same; only the setting changes. Emerson said, "Success treads on every right step." Of all women, we in the Church should take the "Tight" steps, and for this purpose the Relief Society was organized. President Joseph F. Smith said the Relief Society would be a great organization when the young women of the Church would join it. We want the young women, the intelligent women, women of faith, of courage and of purity to be associated with the Relief Societies of the various stakes and wards of Zion. We want them to take hold of this work with vigor, with intelligence and unitedly, for the building up of Zion and the instruction of women RELIEF SOCIETY — A BLESSING TO YOUNG WOMEN in their duties — domestic duties, public duties, and every duty that may devolve upon them (Gospel Doctrine, 1956 Edition, page 387). I think it can as truthfully be said that the young women of the Church will be great when they place themselves in a position to receive the blessings available through participation in the Society. Wen a group of sisters went to the Prophet in 1842 with a constitution and by-laws for the purpose of establishing a ladies' society, the Prophet stated that the constitution and by-laws were the best he had ever seen. He then continued, "But this is not what you want. Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord, and He has something better for them than a written constitution " (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 14). On March 17, 1842, the Prophet organized the Relief Society "after a pattern of the priesthood." In April of that year, the Prophet again met with the sisters and on that occasion said: This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act accordin to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosom. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates (DHC IV, page 605). The Prophet's appraisal of woman's nature strikes a responsive chord in each of us. He did not say that charity and benevolence are the nature of married women only, or of elderly women only, or of young women only. Such characteristics apply to all women — single girls, brides, mothers, and grandmothers. It is according to our natures, if we cultivate it, to have compassion, to love truth, to appreciate beauty, to love all children, and to be kind, generous, thoughtful, and honest. To reach perfection in these qualities, I readily agree, requires intense effort and vigilance. Though it is not easy, we are blessed to have innate urgings in this direction. The journey of life is a most exciting one, but it is fraught with many difficulties. Relief Society is an important vehicle, organized under divine inspiration, to help us make this journey successfully. For a woman to embark on this trip of life without the aid of Relief Society can be likened to journeying hundreds of miles on foot rather than using modern means of transportation. Such a person might weary and never reach her destination, or, if she does, she might be much the worse for wear. And yet many young women today are embarking on this all-important journey of life "on foot." Tue Relief Society was founded to help us shape our lives and the lives of our loved ones while young; it was established to make the journey back to our Father in heaven pleasant and rewarding and, in large measure, to assure our "artrival." President Brigham Young told the sisters that... These societies are for the improvement of our manners, our dress, our habits and our methods of living.... Can you 


 tell the amount of good that the mothers and daughters in Israel are capable of doing? No, it is impossible. And_ the good they will do will follow them to all eternity (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 216). This is the purpose of the Society. The Relief Society is not just "another"? Woman's organization. As the First Presidency wrote on July 3, 1942: We ask our sisters of the Relief Socicty never to forget that they are a unique organization in the whole world, for they were organized under the inspiration of the Lord bestowed upon that great Prophet.... No other woman's organization in all the earth has had 'such a birth (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 7). Inasmuch as the gospel of Jesus Christ is not a gospel of "receiving" only, we are each expected to "give" — time, talents, leadership, service, substance. In so doing we are assured of "receiving" — faith, testimony, opportunities, growth, guidance. In this age of "give-tome-tooism,' the need for honorable women desirous of serving is urgent — urgent for the salvation of man in general, and for the exaltation of man individually. The Relief Society motto "Charity Never Faileth" strives to encompass the full measure of giving and growing. In addition to being unique as a woman's organization because of its divine origin and blessing under the Priesthood of God, the Relief Societv is unique in another very important way — in the magnitude and diversity of its program. Can you name a similar organization in which, prophets declare, can be found "intellectual, cultural and spiritual values... Sufficient for all 566 general needs of its members"? (Ibid., page 7). Membership in social, fraternal, altruistic, literary, theological, musical, and_ other groups provides opportunities to serve, to learn, to grow. Relief Society provides all of these opportunities under divine direction. We have been counseled that Relief Society. Members should permit no other _ affiliation either to interrupt or to interfere with the work of the Society. They should give to Relief Society service precedence over all social and other clubs and societies of similar kinds (Ibid., page 7). And why not, if by so doing, "angels cannot be restrained from being your associates''? Is there any woman whose soul is not enlarged by being part of a well-trained Singing Mothers chorus? Is there any woman who does not grow by doing reading, researching, and preparing in order to present a stimulating lesson? Can one fail to be touched and strengthened when, at the conclusion of a study of the scriptures, a fervent, humble testimony is borne? Does any one of us lack appreciation of the importance of learning how to become a more efficient worker, organizer, planner, doer? Having helped someone in need, or having received help through compassionate service, can one deny the great thrill and blessings which come to both the servant and the recipient? In all fairness, we must answer all of these queries with a resounding "No!" There are few things in life to which a woman can so unreservedly devote her energies with the assur- RELIEF SOCIETY — A BLESSING TO YOUNG WOMEN ance that her efforts are well founded and directed, as she can to the program of the Relief Society. 'The scriptures are full of admonitions and parables conceming the importance of seeking the Lord and his purposes while young. And so it is also with the work of the Relief Society — those who find it early in life have an eternal advantage. Let us accept the admonition and direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith and "live up to our privileges." Let us diligently strive to increase within ourselves the nghteous qualities of character which are "according to our natures." 'The manifold blessings which the Lord has promised his righteous daughters will then be ours. We live in a glorious time when the fulness of the gospel has been restored, but the powers of evil are everywhere about us. We must take every precaution to arm ourselves with righteousness and faith. I hope, as young women of the Church, we will reach out to life and find joy and excitement in helping the cause of nghteousness to prosper. 'The voung women of the Church should have an optimism about life and show courage and perseverance equal to that of our noble progenitors. We have been told by the prophets of God that many choice spirits have been reserved for this dispensation. Let us rejoice at the privilege which is ours of living at this time — prior to the return of the Savior — and dedicate our efforts toward this glorious fulfillment. As a young Relief Society sister, I bear testimony of the great blessing and strength that Relief Society can be in one's life and pray that young women throughout — the Church will heed the admonition of the Brethren — to place ourselves and our loved ones in a position to enjoy the blessings promised through working in this divinely organized Society.
