[Vol50 | August 1963 | Page 570 | Fiction | Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 2 | ]
She had not asked about Larry in KISS OF THE WIND her letters for a long time. "Climb on," Phil yelled as the launch came to shipside. "Me first!" Bo started up the ladder after Phil. Benjy followed, then Pixie, Luana, and Ben. Tue air was full of music and laughter. Dozens of Hawaiian girls, carrying armfuls of leis were dancing through the crowds, singing and swaying to the music. Luana breathed the odor of a sweet ginger lei as a girl, with flowing black hair, draped it around her neck. "Aloha!" The girl flashed her white smile. "Happy, happy aloha!" "Aloha to you," Luana answered. "Thank you very much. I love the ginger flower." Then they saw Emma Lu pushing her way through the crowds of people with outstretched arms, eyes glowing. Her brothers were the first to meet her. Phil swept her off her feet in his strong young arms. Benjy said, "We've got a surprise for you, Emma Lu. We waited for you to name him." Then she was kissing Luana, hugging Ben and Pixie, and smiling through her tears. Emma Lu was as tall as Luana, a bright, efficient looking girl, fresh as the morning. Only her dark eyes showed she was capable of deep feeling. "I'm so glad to be home!" she breathed. "How I love it!" She included everything with a wide sweep of her hand. "My own part of America. Hawaii. And I brought a surprise. Wait nght here!" She rushed into the crowd and came back with a fair-haired, laugh- 


 ing young woman in her thirties, Margaret Lester, Luana's sister-inlaw. "Margaret!" Luana gasped. "How wonderful! Did Tom come with you?" He'll come later," Margaret answered. "I've come to paint the town with you, Luana. I mean that. They tell me Hawai is the most beautiful spot in the world. I want to put it on canvas." "We'll have a grand time," Luana said, remembering the fine paintings that Margaret had done. Ben said, heartily, "This is a real treat, Margaret. Luana hasn't seen you since we went to the Mainland when you and Tom were married." "Ten years ago!' she laughed. "Tom will be here as soon as he can arrange it." Her voice softened wistfully. "We want you and Luana to go through the Temple at Laie with us." "We'll try to," Ben said. "Where's Tutu?" Emma Lu asked, looking around. "Why isn't she here?" "She's waiting on the pier,' Ben explained., Benjy said, "She can't climb ladders. She says she's half dead." "Benjy!"" Ben looked at him, reprovingly. "Your Grandmother is forever young in heart. Think of her that way." "He doesn't ever think," Bo said, disgustedly. "He just talks." "No one is ever old in Hawaii," Emma Lu interrupted. ""This is the land of eternal youth." Margaret was looking at the twins with the old yearning in her eyes. Luana felt her heart reach out to her. Margaret and Tom had been 606 married ten years, and still no babies. "You are the cutest boys I ever saw,' Margaret said as she stooped to kiss each tanned cheek. "Emma Lu is so proud of you. She told me you are both deacons now and pass the sacrament." "Let's show Aunt Margaret the town," Pixie suggested. "When do we surf-ride?" Phil interrupted. "Right away," Ben said. "You can drive us to the beach as soon as we dock." "Oh, look!" Benjy yelled, "There is Aloha 'Tower, Aunt Margaret. Look how pink it is." "It is pink!" she answered, rapturously. "Pinker than frosting on a cake." "Pinker than a monkey's tongue," Bo said. "Pinker than the rainbow," Pixie breathed. The big white liner came slowly to port. They all watched as the sailors threw the heavy ropes that the workmen below fastened to the huge iron stanchions on the pier. Then they hurried down the ramp to where Tutu was waiting for them, holding the Roselani lei she had made for Emma Lu. "Aloha, my darling," she whispered, as Emma Lu _ hugged her tenderly. "I have been waiting for this day. It would be more than I could bear to part with you again." Luana, watching them, saw the sudden shadow in Emma Lu's eyes. She was keeping some secret from them, Luana thought, with a mother's intuition. Emma Lu swung Tutu's hands as she used to do when she was a little girl several years ago. "Aloha to you, darling Tutu," she sang out gaily. ""This is my happy day, too. I love the Roselani lei the best of all. And you remembered!"' "This is Lei Day, Aunt Margaret," Benjy told her. "Know how I tremember when Lei Day is coming? May Day is Lei Day," he chanted. "Our teacher told us Don Blanding was a poet, and he gave us this idea in 1928. Everybody in all our seven Hawaiian Islands has to wear a lei. All except Kahoolawe maybe, because that island is only a target practice island for the Navy and the Marines. We even have cowboys in Hawau, Aunt Margaret. 'They wear leis on Lei Day." Ben smiled. He patted Benjy's head as they walked along. "I'm depending on you boys, and Pixie, too, and Philip, to give your Aunt Margaret a real story about Hawaii while she is our visitor." "I want to show her the Iolani Palace," Pixie said. "It's the only palace on American soil, Aunt Margaret." "T can hardly wait," swered. "Here we are," Ben said, as he opened the door of the big car they had rented. 'We always leave our own car at the Maui airport. Phil, you drive. We'll let Tutu and Margaret sit up front with you. The boys and I will take these jumpseats in the middle. Mama and Emma Lu and Pixie can have the back seat all to themselves. All set?" "You can rent anything over here, Aunt Margaret," Philip told her as Margaret anKISS OF THE WIND they cruised along King Street. "One big company bought all the war surplus jeeps and rents them out to visitors. One company painted them pink and put fringe on top. They're keen for mountain travel. Look, Dad, we better explain directions here in Honolulu to Aunt Margaret, so she'll never get lost." "Let me, Daddy," know how." Ben nodded, and Bo went on: "Everyone says 'Mauka' if they mean toward the mountains. They say 'Makai' if they mean toward the sea. If they want to go toward the big sugar mill west of Honolulu, they say 'Evoa.' Only it's spelled 'E-W-A." And if they want to go toward the beach, they say "Waikiki!'" "Well done!" Ben said. "I couldn't have done a better job, son. You have a very good teacher." "Tutu taught us,' Bo said, smiling proudly at his grandmother. "She's the best teacher in the whole world," Benjy chimed in. Tutu turned to look at them. Her faded cheeks pinked up and her eyes twinkled, but her voice was humble. "I am not informed on the new teaching methods, boys. I am sure you have a fine teacher at your school. But I do know my Hawani from the tops of the volcanoes to the coral beaches and the blue, blue sea. 'Ask me of Hawaii," she quoted, "'I will tell you of islands so ravishingly beautiful it is like living in a flower, though snow may cap their lofty mountain peaks.' " "T love it already," Margaret told her. "And the people are so friendly Bo said. "I 


 looking, all smiling. See them over there, every kind in the world!" "That's right," Phil agreed. "In that crowd on the corner, there are Filipinos, Japanese, Chinese, 'Tahitians, and that tall Man is Portuguese. "But they are all completely, passionately American, Margaret," Ben said. "We call the undiluted Caucasians Haoles. 'They are onlv about twenty per cent of the population." "What's a Caucasian, Benjy wanted to know. "You're one, stupid,' Bo whispered. "But I've never seen so many kinds of people all in one city," Margaret said. "You'll get used to it," Daddy?" her. "You'll soon realize they are your countrymen. Hawaii is a true democracy." Warr until you hear them sing "The Star-Spangled Banner,' " Tutu murmured. "Then you will be sure they are all Americans." "Or, 'Come, Come, Ye Saints! Luana chimed in from the back seat. "A good many are Latter-day Saints." "Let's show Aunt Margaret the statue of old Kamehameha on the next corner,' Bo suggested. "He was the first big powerful king of all the islands, Aunt Margaret," he went on dramatically, as Phil drove Slowly past the statue. "Eight chiefs threw their spears at him all at once." "He was super-king," Benjy interrupted. "He dodged two spears, knocked three out of his way, and fe? Caught the other three in his hands! > 99 608 Ben told "Let me tell her!" Bo cried. "Daddy, make Benjy let. Me tell my ewn stories He always butts in." Ben smiled indulgently at his twin boys.. "IT know, Bo. "But Benjy is ten minutes older than you are. Forgive him for trying to keep ahead of you. And, remember, we can't tell Aunt Margaret everything at once." As the conversation and the sightseeing went on, Luana and Emma Lu were talking together in low whispers. "I know, Mama,'"* Emma Lu was saying breathlessly. "I should, have written home about it. But "you know how we Harringtons 'love surprises." "But Emma Lu, an engagement is so serious. Your Father should have been consulted before you promised to marry anyone.". » "Oh, Mama, I love him. So. I'm sure you swill, too," Emma Lu protested. "And I've only been engaged since last week. 'There's hardly been time to consult with you. Look, Mama." She lifted a gold chain around her throat. A diamond ring dangled from it. "I won't wear it until you and Daddy approve," she said. "Will you ask 'Daddy for me, Mama?" Luana looked at her husband, laughing with his twin boys. He was devoted to his family. There was no sacrifice he would not make for them. But he demanded their respect and obedience in return. "No, Emma Lu,' Luana answered in a quiet voice. "You must tell him yourself. He would expect you to do that." (To be continued ) RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Tooele Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers at Convention and Luncheon April 20, 1963 Left to right: Emma Bryant, Tooele First Ward, oldest visiting teacher in the stake; Elizabeth B. Winters, member, General Board of Relief Society; Olive Gordan, Tooele Fourth Ward, oldest visiting teacher in service, fifty-three years; Ann Faris, Fooele Eleventh Ward, who, although handicapped by blindness, is still an active visiting teacher. Alice Harrison, President, Tooele Stake Relief Society, reports that all the visiting teachers of the stake were honored and presented with corsages, and special gifts were presented to Sister Bryant, Sister Gordan, and Sister Faris. Sister Winters gave an inspirational talk and presented slides on pioneer history..

Huntington Park Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present M for Aany Occasi ions Front row, left to nght: Effie Wilkinson; Ilah Anstine; Atje Heilkema; Ida Taylor; Merle LeSuer; Cleo Webb, stake chorister; Grace Blackham, stake organist; Willa Mason; Dorothy Warren; Zola Hodson and Dorothy Rasmusson, Counselors, Huntington Park Stake Relief Society; Laura R. Shimp, President, Huntington Park Stake Relief Society. Other members of the Singing Mothers chorus are seen standing in the second and third rows. Sister Shimp reports: ""The Huntington Park Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers are actively engaged in singing for many occasions. In March 1962 we enjoyed a very successful anniversary party. A dramatic presentation "The Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan' was portrayed. The Singing Mothers furnished three beautiful numbers. Our visiting teacher convention was held in May. The theme was 'Every Latter-day Saint Sister a Relief Society Member.' A short humorous play 'Relief Society Why' was elegantly portrayed. The Singing Mothers furnished the music. The visiting teachers each resolved to bring in a new member during the year. "The Singing Mothers also sang at our last stake quarterly conference. Much praise was given for the beauty of their renditions. We know that the Singing Mothers added beauty and inspiration through song to each occasion. We love and appreciate them for their service. Much of the success of this group is due to exceptional talents and the untiring efforts and faithful services of our chorister and organist. We are thankful for these opportunities, and feel that our testimonies were strengthened by these experiences. This picture was taken at our visiting teacher convention." Mount Jordan Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Easter J Christmas Cantata, and Other Occasions Front row, left to right: Beth N. Samuelson, First Counselor; LaVerda Lloyd, President; Nina Despain, Second Counselor. Front row, at the right: Wilma Day, accompanist on the organ for special occasions. Second row, third from the right: Jean Enniss, director; fourth from the mght: Regina Roden, accompanist. Sister Lloyd reports: "During the last year this chorus has presented an Easter sunrise service and a Christmas cantata. It has sung for stake conferences, various sacrament meetings, and also presented the Christmas program for the stake high priests' meeting. We are very proud of our chorus and feel that the sisters are continually developing their talents and are sharing them. With others." West Central States Mission, Melstone Branch, Yellowstone District, < I " Left to right: Nancy D. Maart, Secretary-Treasurer; Dorothy K. Hendricks, First Counselor; Rose S. Lear, President; Esther R. Kicker, social science class leader. Hazel K. Woolley, President, West Central States Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Melstone Branch Relief Society, a small organization, has found the secret for holding a successful bazaar: cooperation with the nonmember women in the community. 'These nonmembers support the bazaars by donating to them, and also buying the items for sale. They especially like the 'Mormon bread' (whole-wheat bread made by the sisters), and the items sewed by the sisters. The four active members of this small branch were able to raise $185 by hard work and living the golden rule. '... Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.' "' 610 lM DG lvoe t9hs 


 Lavinia B. Jackson, President, El] Paso Stake Relief Society, reports this unusually effective presentation: "The pageant "The Time Is Come,' written by Ivie Huish Jones for the El Paso Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers, was presented as a part of the Christmas program. 'The songs in the drama were taken from the anthem by Sister ones. ) "The drama was prepared to show that the Lord has spoken through his prophets since the foundation of the world; that he has not forgotten the Lamanites, nor the promises made to their forefathers whom he brought out of Jerusalem to this choice land now called the Americas, and that they knew of the coming of the Savior. "Felipe Lariano, who is Lieutenant Governor of the Sandia Indian tribe, was in attendance. Previously, he had discovered many written records in a wall of a building that was being torn down, and he remembered Brother Lorin Jones and Sister Ivie Huish Jones, who had worked among the Indians in Albuquerque, New Mexico, several years ago. He traveled to El Paso and looked up the Jones family and gave them the valuable records. They proved to be of great worth in genealogical research. After the pageant, the Lieutenant Governor was presented with The Book of Mormon used in the pageant. "Barbara Jean West, chorister, and Sherron Galbraith, organist with the Singing Mothers, and soloists, presented the musical part of the program and pageant, with harmony and devotion suitable to the sacred occasion." Parleys Stake (Utah) Relief Society Anniversary Observance Left to nght: Mildred D. Porter, First Counselor; Edythe K. Watson, President; Norma Gillespie, Second Counselor; Margaret Brown, Secretary. Sister Watson reports: "For our annual birthday luncheon this year, Parley's Stake inaugurated a new program, and we are still excited and thrilled and feel stimulated to reach for higher goals next year, because of the enthusiastic response. "We asked our ward presidencies to extend their personal invitations to include all the women in their ward areas, non Latter-day Saints, as well as Latter-day Saints, the nonmembers to be contacted personally, as well as by their invitations. Special attention was given to the inactive sisters, as well. "On a stake basis, we followed the same plan for the working women in our stake area with an evening party. Personal, hand-written invitations were sent to nonmembers and members alike, and the ward presidents followed up with a personal contact. "Our ward birthday friendship parties were delightful, with a special emphasis placed on the growth and development of Relief Society since 1842, and enumerating its many benefits for all women. Our evening party was most successful, too. A lovely program was given, and our attractive serving table was centered with a beautiful and delicious birthday cake on which was written the theme of our party: 'Love — Sisterhood — Service.' Stake President W. Jay Eldredge, Jr., and his counselors were in attendance, and President Eldredge cut the cake, which was served to all present with love and friendship. "Some 630 sisters were in attendance at the six parties, and were touched by the wonderful spirit of Relief Society, and of this number, thirty-six were nonmembers who seemed most pleased to be included." 614 ' *.,