[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | May | Issue: 13 | Title: KANSAS CITY CONFERENCE. | Author: Unknown]

KANSAS CITY CONFERENCE.
	Minutes in brief of the Relief Society
of Kansas City, Jackson Co., Missouri,
which was held September 27, 1902, in the
hall at 1107 East 19th Street, with Presi-
dent Estella Milligan presiding. Services
began with singing, “Do what is right.”
Prayer by Jas. G. Duffin, president of the
Southwestern States mission. Singing,
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
	President Estella Milligan made a few
appropriate remarks, said she felt very glad
to meet with the sisters of Utah, as Sister
Sarah J. Cannon, Annie T. Hyde and her
daughter Jean were present, having come
to visit the different branches of the society
in the mission.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde was then intro-
duced. She spoke of the organization of
the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph at
Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, with
Sister Emma Smith as President. Gave
instances in her own life of blessings re
ceived by doing her duty in the Relief
Society work Gave statistics pertaining
to the growth of the work, and said many
interesting and gratifying things, which
were highly appreciated by all present.
	Sister Jean Hyde read the address de-
livered by President Lorenzo Snow to the
Relief Society at Saltair, July 9, 1901.
	Sister Amelia B. Carling, missionary
from Orderville, Utah, bore a faithful test-
imony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
Was glad to have the privilege of defend-
ing God’s work in the land of promise.
	President Jas. G. Duffiin was the next
speaker. He said he was very much
pleased to have the sisters of Utah with us
Spoke at some length encouraging the
sisters in the work. Bore his testimony
that the organization of the Relief Society
was inspired of the Lord. Spoke of the
Woman’s Building at Salt Lake City and
encouraged the sisters to contribute to the
same.
	President Estella Milligan made a few
closing remarks and the meeting closed by


[Column 1]
singing, “O, my Father," and benediction
by Elder Fred H. Bradshaw.
	Afternoon session began by singing,
“High on the mountain top.” Prayer by
Brother Preator, of Independence. Singing
“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
	Sister Amelia B. Carling said she felt
like doing her duty in helping to roll on
this great work, was thankful she was
born in this day and age of the world when
the Gospel had been restored to the earth,
and that she knew Joseph Smith was a
prophet of God.
	President Estella A. Milligan said the
sisters from Utah desired to hear the testi-
monies of the sisters.
	Sister Lenora J. McCarthy said she felt
like doing her duty and exerting every
effort to build up the Relief Society.
	Sister Almyra Hines, of Independence,
felt thankful to have the privilege of
meeting the sisters from Utah.
	Sister Margaret Hutchinson, of Indepen-
dence, asked the sisters to assist her with
their faith and prayers. She felt pleased to
meet with us in conference and to meet the
sisters from Utah.
	Elder David O. Allen, Brother Preator,
Sister Louisa Preator, Sister Almyra Hines
with Sister Lucy Hines at the organ enter-
tained the audience with singing a quartet.
	Sister Elizabeth Roller was thankful the
Elders brought the glad news of the Gospel
to her.
	Sister Lucy Hines of Independence, felt
like doing her best in the work of the
Lord.
	Sister Dora McDonald was glad to meet
the sisters from Utah, and Sister Sarah
Long asked for the faith and prayers of the
sisters. Sister Susan F. Pletts was thank-
ful for the privilege of coming to the meet-
ing and glad to meet the sisters who had
come so far for the Gospel’s sake and to
instruct us in the Relief Society work,
	Sister Sarah E. Giles was glad she was
a Latter-day Saint, and Sister Ellen Swan-
son felt like doing her part in the Relief
Society work.
	Mrs. Turner, mother of President Estella
Milligan, bore a faithful testimony al-
though she is not a member of the Church,
but hopes to be some day, and asked the
Saints for their prayers.
	First Counselor Kate Brown was glad to
meet the sisters from Utah and have the
privilege of hearing them speak. 
	President Estella Milligan said the Lord
had heard, and answered her prayers
many times.
	Second Counselor Louisa Preator, of
Independence; spoke and bore a faithful
testimony to the truthfulness of the Gos-
pel. She was glad to meet with the Saints
in conference, and intends to live true and
faithful and do all she can to help build up
the Relief Society work in this the chosen
land.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon said if we would
live up to the requirements of the Gospel
the Lord would be our help. Our mothers
should be thankful for the title, for it is the
greatest blessing given to women.

[Column 2]
Sister Amelia Carling sang a solo, en-
titled, “Scenes of Childhood.”
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said when she
looked over the audience and saw so many
young men who had left their homes and
loved ones for the purpose of preaching
the Gospel, it brought tears to her eyes.
Knew their mothers and sisters would be
proud of them could they have the privi-
lege of looking into their bright faces to-
day. “We mothers should be thankful to
have our sons fill this position. If the
sisters here would be faithful it would as-
sist greatly in rolling on the Lord’s work
in the center Stake of Zion. We mothers
should be proud of our children and train
them up to be useful men and women.
Spoke of the responsibility of mothers in
training their children.
	President Jas. G. Duffin spoke of the
perfect order that prevails in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and of
the rights of the women to preside in
their own meetings. “Woman’s place is
beside man, not at his feet.” Said many
things pertaining to the responsibility of
mothers in raising their families, and that
this organization would prepare mothers for
their duties to their families.
	Elder Fred H. Bradshaw said the day
had come when men were willing to assist
women in doing good.
	Singing, “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.” Conference ad-
journed for six months. Benediction by
Elder Geo. E. Brown.
