[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | May | Issue: 13 | Title: TO THE CITIZENS OF UTAH. | Author: Unknown]

TO THE CITIZENS OF UTAH.
	Certain economic, moral and ethical con-
ditions which have arisen out of the ruins
of war and bloodshed are engaging the
serious thought of the noble band of men
and women who are seeking to promote
mental and spiritual growth among all
nations, tongues and peoples.
	The present agitation and wide spread
discussion of the subjects of “Peace” and
“International Arbitration” and “Gradual
Disarmament” has been brought about by
the almost universal manifestation of moral
and mental enlightenment, which is des-
cending upon the world at the dawn of this
most auspicious period of time, the
Twentieth Century.
	The call made by the Czar of Russia for
the International Peace Conference at the
league brought the subject of Peace and

[Column 2]
Arbitration before the civilized nations of
the world.
	Among the women this awakened senti-
ment which favors peace and good will to-
ward man, found expression in a “Univer-
sal Peace Demonstration,” which was held
in eighteen countries, May 18, 1899, the
evening preceding “The Hague Con-
ference.”
	The demonstration was undertaken by
an international committee of women. The
national councils and local councils were
authorized to make arrangements for such
meeting and it is to the credit of the
women of our nation that with less than a
month’s notice there were held within
twenty-one different states 163 meetings
attended by 73,961 women.
	Under the able leaders among women,
Emmeline B. Wells and Elmina S. Taylor,
Utah gave an enthusiastic demonstration
in favor of peace and arbitration. Mrs.
Wells sent a cablegram to headquarters at
The Hague telling the good results in
our State and received a grateful reply.
	On May 15, 1901, simultaneously with
the opening of the Court of International
Arbitration, another demonstration was
made, showing that women’s zeal for
peace instead of being cooled by wars is
excited to greater ardor.
	Again the councils of women over the
entire world are urged by the president,
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, to organize
another Demonstration to be held the,
coming May 15, 1902.
	The State Committee, representing the
appointments made by the National
Woman’s Relief Society, Bathsheba W.
Smith President, and the National Y. L.
N. M. I. A., Elmina S. Taylor President,
join with leading women of this communi-
ty in an appeal to the people of this State
to lend their aid to this cause, that this
question of arbitration and peace, and the
sentiment of the Universal Brothetbood of
man may be borne to every soul in our
midst.
	The subject of peace and arbitration
deals with such state and financial questions
as material losses and cost of war, and dis-
cussions should follow along these lines.
	Moral deterioration is also incident to
war and this phase should also be brought
to the public mind. Any cause which would
tend to weaken the race physically must
involve the spiritual well being of a nation.
Thus each phase of war presents a religious
aspect and a realization of this impels us to
particularly request the entire band of
ministers and clergymen and Sabbath
School officers to unite with us in this
work, not only by attending and taking
part in the programs given at the demon-
strations on May 15, but to also discuss
subjects bearing on this question in all
Church gatherings on May 11, the Sabbath
day preceding the demonstration. We
earnestly appeal to all teachers, principals,
superintendents of public and private
schools to devote “morning talks” and
chapel exercises on the morning of May 15,
to subjects in relation to Universal Peace.
Presidents of Primary Associations might

[Column 3]
also give suitable talks at the regular
meeting preceding May 15.
	We appeal to the club women to assist
us by taking active part in the demonstra-
tion effort, to stimulate the desire for peace
and to concentrate public attention upon
those ideals of loving brotherhood.
	Speed the day when “Nation shall not
lift up sword against nation, neither shall
they learn war any more,” but “they shall
beat their swords into plough shares and
their spears into pruning hooks.” Then
shall we approach more nearly to the real-
ization of the “Peace of God which passeth
all understanding.”
	Signatures—Bathsheba W. Smith, El-
mina S. Taylor, Ann M. Cannon, Julia
P. M. Farnsworth, Clarissa S. Williams,
Maria Y. Dougall, Lizbeth Qualtrough,
Emma J. McVicker. Lucretia H. Kimball
Bertha G. Bamberger, Isabel M. W. Sears,
Josephine Spencer, Mary A. H. Cannon,
Virginia Snow Stephen, Elizabeth Cart-
wright, Katie B. Y. Kraft, May Wells
Whitney, Mary F. Young, Dessie W.
Grant, Clara Holbrook, Inez Knight,
Lillian Horne, Alice Richards, Rebecca E.
Little, Janie M. Kingsbury, Edna M.
Ridges, Lucile Jennings, Alice Isley.
	Annie Taylor Hyde, member of the
International Peace Committee. Alice Mer-
rill Horne and Christine Smoot Taylor
members cf the National Council Peace
Committee and Chairmen of the State Peace
Demonstration of Utah.

