PERILOUS TIMES.

	This appears to be a momentous period
in our history one such as the young peo-
ple of Zion, have never before witnessed.
A time of both local and general interest,
not to us alone, but to the world at large.
The newspapers are filled with accounts of
famine drought, fires, floods, shipwrecks
and earthquakes, while crime of every
name and nature is rampant through the
land, and the gaunt forms of disease and
death, stalk hand in hand together, roam-
ing, about hither and thither at will, with-
out any thing to impede their progress or
stay their ravages. There is truly a dark
and, gloomy prospect before the inhabitants
of the earth, but it is only what we have
been taught to expect, and, according to
the prophecies, will prove only a beginning
of troubles.
	But to come nearer home, to subjects of
more vital interest to us as a people. The
past few weeks, have developed some
strange things; members of our community
have been subjected to indignities and bare-
faced injustice at the hands of unprincipled
Federal officials, and public indignation, is
aroused at the assassination of Bro. Standing
and the persecution of some of the Saints
in North Carolina and other places.
	Truly this is a time fraught with great
events, and the time is near at hand that
will try the hearts of the people, and no
doubt some will grow faint-hearted and
give way to the temptations of the world,
and forget their obligations to God, and
their to fealty the King of Kings,by breaking
their covenants and turning traitor to the
cause which they have espoused.
	But I trust that the majority of the people
will become more united, as the pressure
from the outside grows stronger, and the
sisters may be one with the brethren in
the maintenance of our rights, and promo-
tion of truth, and spreading of the Gospel.
If we do this we have nothing to fear, for
God is at the helm, and will protect us as
long as we do right and serve him faith-
fully; and to do this we must put away all
envy, jealousy, fault-finding and strife from
our midst, and live as brethren and sisters
should.
	St. George, Aug. 17, 1879. KATE.


