CONTINUED.
	The Poets!—There remains a host yet to
name, but perhaps I ought to give and take
a rest; some future time I will resume the 
theme D. V. At present I will close with
Shakespeare and Milton. I feel it is almost
presumptuous to attempt remarks upon
those two grand luminaries of the poetical
world, but I am sincere in my devotion to
all that is grand and great, and sincerity "is
the immediate jewel of the soul," and they
would never have despised it. Many pass
them by unread, and therefore unappre-
ciated, being considered dry and belonging
to a past age. A lady remarked one day,
she wished some of the sisters would revise
Milton, for there was much in him she did
not like, and he was not a woman's rights
man. Think of such words from a woman
of intelligence! Had she any appreciation,

[Column 2]
or comprehension of that immortal poet?
Had she read him with the heart and with
the understanding? I presume to think
she had not. It takes a deep-thinking
mind, and one who has read much and has
some classical information, to soar and delve
with Milton; especially in his inspired
writing, his most wonderful poems of
"Paradise Lost" and "Paradise Regained,"
"Samson Agonistes," and others. His son-
nets are also beautiful and full of truth.
"Paradise Lost" is a poem for all time, it
can never grow old; and the mind that can
soar with him and realize the scenes he
draws therin, will never come to the con-
clusion that he needs revising. This poem
was written under adverse circumstances,
when he had passed through most remark-
able reverses, and when he had become
blind. Think of it! and you will at once
come to the conclusion that he was indeed
inspired. The world believes and acknowl-
edges this.
	He lived in the reign of Charles I, and 
through the great revolution and regicide
of that monarch; but in his principles he
was decidedly republican, as all his writ-
ings show, and was the friend and secretary
of Cromwell. He was educated at Christ's
College, Cambridge, and from the beauty
of his features fine complexion and fair
hair, the collegians called him "the lady of
Christ's College" His excellent mother,
his accomplished father, an elder sister and
his younger brother, Christopher, formed a
family that displayed a model of an English
home. His fathe[-] was distinguished for
probity and moral worth, and he watched
over his gifted son with constant care, pro-
vided him with excellent tutors, sent him
to St. Paul's School, London, and afterwards
to Cambridge. He was an intense student,
and when only a youth had attained to so
much learning that it was rarely tutors
could be found that were capable of instruct-
ing him. His father intended him for a
clergyman, probably a Bishop, but Milton
found that conscience would not permit
him to enter the church of Archbishop
Laud and Charles I. His indulgent father
yielded. He passed his studious leisure at
Horton, amidst the fair green meadows, the
silver streams, the thick woods filled with
nightingales, and beneath the shadow of
the battlements of Windsor Castle. His 
youth was a happy one, but his maturer
life was one of struggle, of sorrow, of neg-
lect, of blindness, and of poverty; yet amid
all this, his mind was lit up by the fire of
inspiration, and he produced a poem "not
for an age, but for all time." His first mar-
riage was an imprudent one; two months
after the wedding his wife left him, on pre-
tence of visiting her parents, and he quietly
set to work and wrote a treatise entitled
"Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce," which
called down upon him the indignation of 
the Presbyterian clergy, regardless of whose
opposition, he proceeded to pay his ad-
dresses to a beautiful and accomplished
young lady; but his wife hearing of it, re-
turned to him, and throwing herself on her
knees before him implored his forgiveness.

	Soon his heart relented
Towards her, his life so late, and sole delight,
Now at his feet submissive in distress.
	[Paradise Lost, Book 10.

[Column 1]
	He also extended his protection and sup-
port to her parents and their numerous
family, at the very crisis of their ruin, in
consequence of the battle of Naseby, so
fatal to the Royal cause. In 1674 he lost
his father, who expired in his arms. His
first wife bore him three children, and died
in childbed; his second wife also died in
the same way; his third wife was an exem-
plary woman. Milton's two daughters were
taught to read six different languages,
without understanding any of them. They
wrote for him while he dictated his noble
poem of Paradise Lost, which has been a sub-
ject for several native artists. One of his
biographers describes him at this time, and
says: "If anything could enhance the sur-
passing merits of this noblest achievement
of poetry, it is the circumstances under
which it was written—blind, reduced in
his fortunes, encompassed with dangers, as
well as with darkness, his mind had lost
none of its energy. The spirit of the man
and the Christian was unbroken by the an-
nihilation of the patriot's hopes. In the
night which enveloped his visual sense, the
heaven of intellect was revealed with more
distinctness to that gaze which was thence-
forward to be fixed on the realities of eter-
nity." His manners were affable and
graceful, his temper grave, without melan-
choly, his affections ardent. In him were
combined all the rarer qualities that dignify
our nature, and his works are the just ex-
pression of his character, as they are the 
monuments of his genius.


[Column]

