	BEAR LAKE CONFERENCE Y. L. M. I. A.

	On Friday and Saturday, July 17 and 18,
the young ladies of the Bear Lake Stake
of Zion held their first Conference in Paris,
the Relief Society, under the presidency of
Sister Lindsay, holding Conference jointly.
Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne, S. M.
Kimball and S. M. Heywood were present.
President Charles C. Rich was on the stand
both days, and by request gave some good
instructions. Elders James H. Hart and
George Osmond also addressed the Confer-
ence on the second day. President Nancy
Pugmire and her Counselors, Amy E. Cook
and Alice Rich addressed the large audi-
ence with marked ability, and were listened
to with profound interest and attention.
	After singing and prayer, Pres. Nancy
Pugmire made a few remarks and alluded
to the sisters' mission in the interest of
mutual improvement. Mrs. L. M. Hart,
Secretary, read reports from the various as-
sociations throughout the Stake, dating
from time of organization to the present,
giving a report of eight associations, all in
good working order, having 273 members,
and showing a good average attendance.
Some were newly organized. The reports
show a healthy financial condition, and
after liberal disbursements have a credita-
ble surplus in the treasury.
	Pres. Alice Rich, of the First Ward of
Paris, represented that Association; said
it was evident to all that the desire to im-
prove was becoming general. They had
established a five cent Temple Fund, which
met with great favor. They also edited a
paper monthly, which was calculated to
give interest to their meetings, and develop
an intellectual element that otherwise would
not be called into action.
	Pres. Hetty Dunn represented Blooming-
ton; said the young ladies there were try-
ing to keep pace with other settlements in
the good work of improvement. They
took an active part in GLEANING last sum-
mer, which enabled them to stow away
considerable grain. They had the founda-
tion laid for a good LIBRARY, having on
hand BOOKS to the amount of $22.
	Pres. Sarah Alred represented St. Charles
Association. Said that scarcely three months
had elapsed since she took charge there.
They edited a monthly paper, entitled "The
Intellectual Gem;" it brought out the tal-
ents of the young, that would otherwise be
lying dormant.
	The President of Lake Town being ab-
sent, Counselor Mrs. Amy E. Cook repre-
sented the Association. Said the prospects
were that when they had gained the expe-
rience of older associations, they could re-
port as favorably as any.
	Sister Tyson represented Randolph, the
President being absent. Said although they

[Column 2]

numbered but few, they were wide awake
in the cause and anxious for advancement.
	Pres. Julia Budge represented the Second
Ward of Paris as being in a fair condition.
Many of the girls were away in the sum-
mer season, engaged in the dairy business
and other ways, consequently the meetings
were not so well attended.
	Ovid was represented by the President of
the Primary Association. The organizan-
ization being so near Conference they had
not met as yet.
	Montpelier was represented by Abbie
Osborn, President Cousins being absent.
Said their organization was of but recent
date, yet there was an interest awakened
among the young ladies, and they were an-
xious to improve in everything that was
elevating and good.
	Sister Kimball said she had listened with
great interest to the reports; hardly ex-
pected to find us so far advanced. Was
pleased to see that union and good feeling
prevail among us, and the willingness mani-
fested in responding to the calls so promptly.
Wished to encourage the editing of papers
in our associations, thus giving an opportu-
nity to exercise all the literary ability we
may possess. Felt to thank God for the
earnestness that characterizes every move
of the young sisters in Bear Lake.
	Sister Horne said she could see consider-
able improvement in the young ladies of
Bear Lake since she was here last. Was
glad to see the young shoulder the respon-
sibilities as well as they did. It would not
be long before we would realize the result
of our labors. Felt to give her faith and
prayers that we may continue in the good
work in spite of any opposition. Said we
had those at the helm who, if we listened,
could teach us true principle, and there was
much praise due those who stepped forward
so willingly; she knew the Lord would
bless and strengthen them and fit and
qualify them for their labors. Advised us
to begin right at the alphabet of our re-
ligion, so as to have a good foothold; it
would always prove a safeguard under all
circumstances. Wished us to do away with
all slang phrases, cultivate refinement in
every form, clothe our minds with suitable
thoughts, even if we did not pay so much
attention to outward adorning. Thought
there was great credit due the gleaners of
Bear Lake; felt confident the Lord would
bless those who did all they could to store
away grain for the time of need, and that
would be obeying counsel also. Wanted to
have the number of papers duly reported
that were taken by the sisters, and what
papers they were. Felt to urge the neces-
sity of home manufacture in all branches
practicable. Recommended Sister Suow's
poems for the perusal of the young people,
and all the Church works. Also recom-
mended us to inculcate true principle and
correct morals in the minds of the young.
	Bro. Rich expressed great pleasure in
meeting with the young ladies. Said he
was pleased to see how earnest they were
in the good work they were engaged in,
considered it praiseworthy. Was acquaint-
ed with the sisters who were visiting us,in
Nauvoo; they were good sisters and worthy
of our attention. Said we lived in the last
dispensation, when the Lord had again
spoken. and we must heed. He sometimes
thought we hardly appreciated the bless-
ings we enjoy daily. For instance, those
who have their sight don't always appre-
ciate it, and never could until deprived of
it. We can aspire to almost anything, if
we live worthily before the Lord. And is
there anything more desirable than the
Holy Priesthood—to be queens and priest-

[Column 3]

esses in the next world? Is not that worth
living for? So let us be faithful, do all we
can to elevate ourselves; knew we had tal-
ent in our midst. Remember, we stand on
the principle of righteousness, and not fine
clothes. Advocated home manufacture; he
always patronized it as far as practicable.
If we stop importing we would soon become
an independent people. Endorsed the sis-
ters' remarks. Said "Continue to labor
and you will be blessed and sustained in all
things."
	Sister Snow felt to urge the manufacture
of straw, for that was within our reach;
little boys and girls could help us materi-
ally in that branch. Suggested the forming
of a committee in each association for that
purpose; felt assured we could make a suc-
cess of it. In Salt Lake there was too much
of the gross element to go into that busi-
ness. God had given us ability, and not
altogether for our own personal advantage,
but to help benefit others. Asked the Lord
to bless the efforts of the young people of
Bear Lake.
	Mrs. L. M. Hart was elected Stake Secre-
tary, and Miss Caddie Rich, Stake Trea-
surer.
	Sister Lindsay thought the young ladies
had done remarkably well; encouraged
them in well-doing. Hoped they would be
able to retain the good instructions they
had received, and put them into practice.
Wished the Presidents of Primary Associa-
tions to be present in the afternoon, to give
in their reports. Singing.  Benediction.
