HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Good Health.—The present very warm weather
reminds us thaa it is conducive to good health to
disinfect cellars, drains, sinks, &c., and all places
where vegetable and animal matters are liablet to
remain in a decaying condition; hence we reproduce
the following:

	"Choliride of lead is said to be most powerful,
safe, and economical deodorizer and disinfectant
known. To prepare it for use on a small scale,
for ordinary purposes, take half a drachm of nitrate
of lead and mix it with one pint of hot water; dis-
solve two drachms of common salt in two gallons
of water, and mix the solutions; this forms a
solution of chloride of lead. A cloth wet with
his, and hung up in a room filled with a foetid
atmosphere will sweeten it instantly; and the
solution thrown into a water closet, sink, or drain,
or wherever the sulphite of hydrogen and am-
monium exists, or is generated, will have the same
effect. It is not carbonic acid, but the sulphite
or hydrogen and ammonium which are eliminated
with the breath, and through the pores of the skin
of the living body, that makes people who are
exposed to such an atmosphere so depressed, and
which when highly concerntrated, devolops typhus
poison.

	"Nitrate of lead is in dry crystals, and is sold at
a few cents per pound, which would make severrl
hundred gallons of the solution of chloride of lead."

	We have found it most convenient to weigh out
in small packages a number of the several quanti-
ties of lead and salt for a two gallon solution, and
keep them on hand for use say every few days.
This is a subject worthy the attention of every
person.


Wife," said a man, looking for his boot-
jack, "I have places where I keep my
things, and you ought to know it." "Yes,"
said she; "I ought to know where you
keep your late hours, but I don't."

	Self-government is a natural right, and
the ballot is the best known method
through which to exercise that right, con
sequently those who have not the ballot, do
not possess the best method of self-govern-
ment.


The Duke of Argyl, father of the Mar-
quis of Lorne, with his two daughers, vis-
ited Boston, Newport, and other New
England cities recently. The party were
the guests of distinguished citizens, and
received suitable attentions.

	A few weeks since a young lady was ar-
rested at midnight by a policeman in the
streets of St. Petersburg in the very act of
posting up a revolutionary proclamation.
The young lady goes to Siberia, and the
policeman pockets 100 roubles.

	THE NOMINATION of Hon. Henry W
Blair, of New Hampshire, for United States,
Senator from that State, (equivalent to the
election) will be rejoiced over by all
friends of Woman, and of Temperance,
everywhere. He is a staunch supporter of
woman-suffrage, and succeeds Wadeighn
who opposed it.

	ELIZABETH STUART Phelps says in a
note to a friend: "Be assured that if I am
well enough I shall vote. Of course I be-
lieve in School Suffrage, and earnestly de-
sire to see a full registration."

	JENNIE JUNE says of Miss Anna Dick-
inson's latest work, "The success of Miss
Anna Dickinson's 'Ragged Register,' just
published by the Harpers, has been so in-
stantaneous that she received an order from
them for a novel to follow it as quickly as
possible."


[Column 1]
