	SEX IN MIND—WOMAN'S EDUCATION. 

	Many of those who argue most strenously
for the co-education of the sexes on the
same lines, by the same method and with
precisely the same ends in view, assume
the position that there is no sex in mind,
and attribute to the influence of a diverse
education, the mental difference of sex
which manifest themselves so distinctly
about the time when the girl blossoms into
womanhood and the boy disappears in the
man. To our thought this idea is scarcely
less absurd than it would be to attribute to
education the bodily differences that then
declaire themselves, or to endeavor by means
of the same kind of physical training and
by the adoption of the same pursuits to as-
simulate the female to the male body. Both
labors would be fruitless. The difference
of sex is something more than an affair of
clothes, it is more enduring than this per-
ishable tabernacle. It is an eternal, pre-
existent principle, that was with us before
we assumed the poor habiliments of immor-
tality and will still continue with us in the
glories of the never-ending eternities.
When the great Father of all created us, we
were formed firstly spiritual, after that
mortal. In the image of God created He
man, male and female created He them,
first as spirits in the heavens, next on the
earth with tabernacles of flesh to clothe
these immortal spirits; and thus the cause
of sex in our bodies is the existence of the
same principle in the intelligent power that
dwells within and that gives to them, life,
feeling, consciousness and power of will.
The body is not the greater but the soul; the
spirit fashions the body not the body the
mind. As well might it be claimed that
the clothes which cover our persons are
greater than our bodies and the causes of
the mental and bodily differences that exist
between man and woman. Furthermore
this principle of sex has existed from all

[Column 2]
eternity and will eternally abide, that the
generations of the Holy Ones in the heavens
may continue and that the coming forth of
the sons of men on the earth may not cease.
The temporal is after the pattern of the
eternal and the perfect on earth is prepared
for the celestial beyond. It is because of
this fundimental appearance, reaching back
beyond the present life that we claim for
the perfect development of man and woman-
hood there should be differences of training,
different modes of imparting and supplying
the desirable knowledge; for with Paul, we
are satisfied that the man is not without
the woman in the Lord; or, in other words,
man and woman complement each other's
being, neither is perfect in the fullest sense
of that word, without the other.
	We are no enemies to the education of
woman. We hold that she is entitled to
all the mental culture, and all the freedom
in attaining the same,necessary to the fullest
development of her nature, and that the
aim of her education should manifestly be
the perfect development, not of manhood,
but of womanhood, by the methods and
discipline most conducive to this end.
We presume that no person will deny that
the two sexes are formed for different func-
tions, and that the influence of these func-
tions pervades and effects their entire lives.
This much being granted it appears to us
plain that we ought to recognize sex in edu-
cation, and to provide that the method and
aim of mental culture i[-] woman should
have regard to the specialities of her physical
and mental nature. No woman can rise
high in spiritual development unless "she
take a holy care of the temple of her body."
	Nor is this all, we consider that the sys-
tem of education applied to the training of
our daughters should have regard to the
peculiarities of their conditions, to the
special duties of life for which they are des-
tined, and to the range and kind of special
activity, mental and bodily to which they
are fore-ordained by their sex and organiza-
tion of body and spirit. Whatever aspira-
tions of an intellectual kind women may
have, the majority cannot be relieved frem
their fore-ordained work as the mothers
and nurses of the children of men, and inas-
much as by far the greater portion of wo-
mankind will continue to assume the holy
state of wedlock, the education of girls
certanly ought not to be such as would in
any way clash with their organization, in-
jure their health or unfit them for the duties
of this state of life. It has been well said
"Nor is it a sufficient reply to this argument
to allege,as is sometimes done,that there are
many women who have not the opportunity
of getting married,or who do not aspire to
bear children; for whether they care to be
mothers or not, they cannot dispense with
those physiological functions of their nature
that have referance to that aim, however
much they may wish it, and they cannot
[-]isregard them in the labor of life without
injury to their health. They cannot rebel
successfully against the tyranny of their
organization; the complete development
and function thereof must take place after
its kind."  Also "It would be an ill thing
if it should so happen that we got the ad-
vantages of a quantity of female intellectual
work at the price of a puny, enfeebled
race."
	We cannot for a moment encourage the
absurdity that it may be that in the distant
future, a race of sexless beings will be evol-
ved, who, "undisturbed and unannoyed by
the ignoble troubles of maturity" shall
carry on the intellectual work of the world.
On the other hand we cheerfully admit that
there have been many striking instances of

[Column 3]
women with extraordinary mental powers,
numbers of whom have manifested a moth-
ers sublime graces of true womanhood,
and these instances may be justly quoted as
evidence in support of the right of woman
to the best mental culture, but it is entirely
another matter when these examples are
adduced to support the assertion that there
is no sex in mind and that the course of
education should be identical for both
sexes. It is not enough to point to excep-
tional cases of women who have under-
gone such a training,without bodily injury,
and have proven their high capabilities;
without doubt there are thousands who can
and will so distinguish themselves. The
question is, is it the highest manifestation
of wisdom to encourage such a training,
will it result in the best good to those who
pass through it, and in the greatest hap-
piness to the human family. It should be
the aim of a true education to raise every
woman to the ideal of a complete and per-
fect womanhood, it certainly cannot be a
true education which would operate in any
way to unsex her, for as we have already
shown, sex is fundimental, lies deeper
than culture and cannot be ignored or de-
fied with impunity. "You may hide na-
ture but you cannot distinguish it."
	All true education should commence
with the life of the child. A parent may
not wish to enter into the "why and where-
fores" of eyery request made or instruction
given; but that portion of education which
prepares the child for a happy healthy life
on earth and eternal joy hereafter cannot
be commenced too soon. During the earli-
est years of a woman's life causes are opera-
ting to bring her to perfect development,
and should be so recognized. The damage
done to her health is often done in very
early life. In this regard we agree with a
learned physician who writes: "The nor-
mal evolutions of nature, either physically
or physiologically are never paroxysmal.
If the forces which direct development
find expression in paroxysm it constitutes
disease, not health. It is almost impossible
to conceive of a woman who is developed
from a child in one year. Yet this sudden
transformation is regarded as a fact in the
genesis of woman. * * *
	The sex structively and  functionally,
from infancy to pubity, is in a state of slow
and progressive evolution. * * *
	But the law of the woman is not the law
of the child. The woman must follow those
laws of health which keeps her healthy,
the child must be taught to obey those
which will ensure health in the woman,"
and not these laws alone, but every one, in
its time and season, which will enable her
to stand side by side with man, as his help-
mate, either in the changing scenes of
mortal life or in the unfading years  of 
eternity.
		BRUFORD.
* 	"It can hardly be doubted that if the
nursing of babies was given over to man
for a generation or two they would abandon
the task in despair or in disgust, and con-
clude it to be not worth while that man-
kind should continue on the earth.


A reduction of wages in the cotton mills
of England and Scotland is making much
labor trouble. A conferance of miners
representing 20, 000 of their class has been
held in Manchester recently. A resolution
was unanimously passed in favor of emigra-
tion to the United States.


