MY DEAR SISTERS:

	This is Saturday, just one week to day since
we arrived, and yet two weeks must elapse be-
for this letter will leave the Island. We sailed
from San Francisco on the S. S. "Zealander,"
which sailed on Monday, July 7, at 12 m. We
saw a few of our friends in San Francisco, only
one Latter-day Saint. After going on board, I
soon bade adieu to the and and retired to my
room; I was very ill four days, but I was kindly
cared for during the time. The Captain said
he had never made a better voyage. *	*	*
On the Sabbath: we had the Episcopal service
on board ship. There were two ladies, widows,
with whom we became acquainted, who were
very pleasant companions for us throughout
our journey.
	When we arrived in Honolulu the Captain
sent us in his carriage to the Hotel. It was a
lovely place, such trees and foliage as only the
tropical climates can produce, the most lovely
flowers and delicious fruit.	*	*	*
	Saturday the 19th, at 6 a. m., we left Hono-
lulu in a comfortable carriage, traveling up
hill most of the time. Around was the most
lovely scenery one could imagine, elegant
homes, embowered in trees and foliage. The
cemetary, with the yew-trees and other varie-
ties, and flowers of all kinds, I cannot describe
by pen. After we had journeyed six miles we
came to the La[-]e. Here the wind always blows,
an there is a huge precipice reaching over
half a mile; the road is down, down, and very
crooked, paved with large boulders of rock.
It takes two natives to hold the rope attached
to the end of the wagon to keep it steady.
This is the place where once in time of war
the natives were driven, and leaped from this
precipice like sheep rather than surrender.	*
*	There is an iron railing to hold to, to pre
vent falling. Below is a lovely valley dotted
with farms, forming a pretty pastoral picture,
and beyond is the sea, making the view most
picturesque.
	As we passed on there were large fields of
wheat raised by Chinamen, and Kalé patches,
but these were mostly under water. The Kalé
is what the poe is made of; the root looks like
a long turnip; you can take it up, cut off the
tops, set them again and they will grow an-

[Column 2]
other crop. The rice looks like wheat, but
they transplant it in rows. Some of the fields
were almost ripe, and the Chinamen make the
most fearful noises to scare away the birds.
Sweet potatoes are replanted by burying the
tops. We saw starch plants and many others
that were new to us. When we arrived at
Laie at 3 p.m. the natives came out with a
banner, drums, flutes, and sang and danced.
They had a song composed for the occasion,
and while we partook of supper stood in one
corner of the room and sang.
	Sunday, 20, we attended Sunday School; it
commences at 9 a. m. The native children
sing our songs in their own language. They
sing "Our own Sunday School" nicely; it was
very interesting to hear their exercises.
	At 11 a. m. attended meeting; there was a
good congregation, some of the people had
walked six miles. They were comfortably
clothed, almost all wore hats with flowers on
them, and flowers around their necks; they
call them "Lei." Susa and I have had them
put on our necks; and one of saffron blossoms,
just fancy!
	Monday we went to see the sugar-cane fields.
The drouth has injured it, yet it is doing better
the last few months, on account of the frequent
showers. There are one hundred acres under
improvement; it takes eighteen months to per-
fect one crop.
	I find many plants and shrubs exactly like
ours in our own door yards.	*	*	*	There is
a kind of vine grass here that is a great nui-
sance to farmers in first breaking the soil. It
takes nine yoke of oxen and four men one day
to break up one half acre; thus you see the
natives must work hard. Every Saturday the
natives stay at home and do their own work,
cook Kalé for the week to make poe. I rather
like their cooked Kalé.
	On the 24th Pres. Cluff and family, all the
white people that could go and some natives
went to the mountains and took picnic to cele-
brate the day. We had a pleasant time, the
scenery was delightful.
	Sister Alexander (the daughter of our much
esteemed Brother and Sister Corey, of Provo,)
has a fine daughter and is doing well. Many
in the mission made it presents, more than I
ever saw for a new arrival, so great was the
joy.
	Friday I attended the Relief Society; there
were about forty in number. This is a very af-
fectionate and kind people. I often think of
the labors of our Elders among them in former
years, Elders George Q. Cannon and Joseph F.
Smith. I wish I could describe how I felt in
receiving gifts from the sisters of the Relief
Society; one brought a melon, another a little
bag of sweet potatoes, a cucumber, a few eggs,
a fish, a cabbage, and so on. I thought at first
they were for the poor, but Sister Cluff in-
formed me they were tokens of love for Susa
and me; and when meeting closed the sisters
picked them all up and brought them to the
house, shook hands with us cordially and bid
us good by.
	We attended a school-examination of five
schools together; it was very interesting, al-
though I could not understand. The happy
faces, intelligent black eyes, and variety of en-
tertainment were all charming. These schools
are all supported by law, all men teachers.
The examination was held in the large stone
meeting-honse. *	*	*

	The land where our people live is much of it
low mountains, or high hills, covered with
eternal verdure; there is a constant breeze of
wind from the sea, that forlu ately takes away
the musquitoes and makes it delightful day
and night, yet there is no bed without coarse

[Column 3]
bobbinet to protect the sleeper. Unfortunately
the sea wind is so strong around the houses of
our mission that trees will not grow, yet there
is a carpet of green to the sea. The air is so
impregnated with salt that the door-locks,
scissors, and things of this kind rust; a good
cooking-stove will only last five years—it rusts
and peels off.
	I am sitting where I can see the beautiful
white foam dash against the shore; it is indeed
a luxury to bathe in the sea. I am improving
very fast in my health. The natives are more
excusable for their weaknesses than white peo-
ple, because of their condition and circum-
stances, in my way of thinking.
	I realize our first Elders must have had re-
markable experiences, and passed through
many trials in their first mission here. The
sister who presides over the Relief Society here
was baptized by Elder George Q. Cannon; her
husband is a brother of Napela, who lives in
Salt Lake City. I see some grey-haired vete-
rans here, the fruits of the labors of our first
Elders. *	*	*	Pres. Cluff seems to
spare no labor to make this mission a success.
The people here do not have to garner up any-
thing for winter, yet there are many obstacles
to overcome. There is not a barn in the coun-
try, and there is no need of one; the cattle all
look well, but the natives do not know how to
be as kind to their horses as they might be.
	The natives make their own hats, and there
are very few shoes worn.
	I have had a dress made of calico in the style
worn here; it is very comfortable. *	*	*
Only think, it has been ten days since we ar-
rived here, and not one dust storm. There
are no pains spared to make our visit pleasant
and interesting, and I trust that God will bless
us, that we may be no detriment to the mis-
sion. My health is improving every day. I
ever feel to say, God bless all my sisters who
work for the advancement of the kingdom of
God. Please remember me to Bro. Naylor in
the Sabbath School. My love to all who in-
quire for me, and to Pres. Wells in particular,
also to Sisters M. I. Horne, B. W. Smith, P.
Woodruff, in fact to all my good sisters at
home. I hope to be at home in September, if
the Lord wills it so. Sister Cluff and Susa join
in love to the dear friends at home, or, as the
natives would say, "aloha." God bless you
forever is my prayer.
