JUAB CONFERENCE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Juab
County Stake organization of the R. S. was
held in the Nephi Tabernacle on the 20th
of July. On the stand were the board of
officers of the Stake and Branch, also Presi-
dent of Levan Branch; Pres. Joseph Young,
Pres. G. Teasdale, Patriarch J. G. Bigler,
and several other brethren were present.
	After the usual opening exercises, Pres.
Amelia Goldsbrough made a very few re-
marks, expressing her thankfulness for the
opportunity, and to see that so many of the
brethren felt interested in our behalf and
were present at our meeting. Said we had
visited Levan and Mona, and could say that
she felt thankful to find that a good spirit
prevailed among ahe sisters of those settle-
ments. She then introduced Pres. Joseph
Young, who said: "My sisters and friends
have expressed a wish that I should speak
to them. It is only a few of these meetings
of the Relief Societies that I have ever
been present at; I have had invitations
from my sisters, for which I am thankful.
I do not know that there is any one that
appreciates the noble acts of my sisters
more than myself. The first Relief Society
was organized in Nauvoo by the Prophet
Joseph Smith; he gave the sisters then the
necessary instructions to enable them to do
their duty. My sisters are doing a great
work, and their works are appreciated, and
I feel to rejoice with them. I wish to say a
word to the singers I have heard to-day; I
am much pleased to hear our illustrious
Sister Grace, whom I have heard so many
years ago. I have never heard a sound that
draws me nearer to the Holy Spirit than
the sweet songs of Zion; it reminds me of
something that I expect to hear when I
pass behind the veil, when all will stand in
their own place, where everything will be
perfect and perfect order will be observed;
this people can never attain to the glory
we are looking for without it. I wish to
observe all rules and order wherever I am.
I have met with the sisters and praised
their good works; I like to see the poor re-
lieved, the sick comforted. Where is the
sister that does not feel blessed in doing
good? God has made us of that cast and
character, and we should do all in our
power to promote the good work. The
Lord called upon Joseph Smith to organize
an institution called the Order of Enoch,
which will be brought about in the due
time of the Lord, which Order will super-
sede all other orders and societies, where
all will be provided for according to their
needs. The day will come when we shall
have a model Zion. This people must adopt
principles of economy. I can say this peo-
ple are the best people upon the face of the
earth; I can also see their follies. I am
willing to live on scanty meals, if I can but
live in the Zion of our God. If we are
united no power can prevail against us.
There is no such thing as dodging the pur-
poses of God; the government of God and
His order will live when everything else
passes away. Look after the young; do
not let them associate with strangers; lead
them in the right path while they are
young, that they may not depart from the
truth. God bless you and all the Priest-
hood and Bishops, and all the faithful in
Zion. Amen."

	Sister Grace sang, by request, "O Saints,
have you seen," &c.
