WOMAN'S RELATION TO HOME.

	First, "Do the duty that lies nearest thee."
This is a motto which it would be well to re-
member, and practice in our every-day life. It
is a very common remark that woman's king-
dom is home; we hear it on every side, and we
heartily endorse it. The average duties of a 
woman's life are home duties, and the avoca-
tions which arise from the relationship of the
family; a work which men have not the tact,
or delicacy, to manage. To women, we most
earnestly believe, is committed the happiness,
the peacefulness and the dignity of the home.
Yet almost every woman will find that her
work differs from her neighbor's, according to
her circumstances and capabilities. When wo-
men have a home their nature is such they,
attach themselves to it, but to live entirely
within it, to have no other thought, would be
the ruin of all the faculties of self-development,
that elevate and enlarge the soul. Because
woman is so blest as to be moored in the haven
of home, does it follow that she has no duties
outside of it? Shall she breathe no other at-
mosphere? Is there no development outside
the home that woman's nature demands?
Has the world no claim upon women, and
has woman no place in it except her home?
We have heard from some persons that she ha
not, that there is plenty for women to do in-
side their own homes. There may be plenty
of work for men to do inside their own work-
shops, offices, or study, and with the delights
of their home to make a little variety for them,
it would be more than women have who con-
fine themselves within their home; with very
little change except to take care of restless ba-
bies. How would men like any boundary set
for them? What opportunity has a woman
who devotes herself exclusively to her home,
for improving her mind and relieving the mo-
notony that becomes ofttimes unendurable to
women, making them irritable, nervous and
unhappy?
	Has not woman some relationship to the 
world? Is she not a citizen of the world? Does
she not possess individuality? and is not her
opinion of some weght and consequence to
others besides her own immediate family?
Women have large souls, and they should have
room to exercise them. It is not that they
need more work, but they require fresh stimu-
lus, and occasionally to step out of the tread-
mill into a broader path. We grow tired of
hearing that men outgrow their wives men-
tally; that while the mother is bearing and
rearing her children, the husband, the father
is growing every day in mental vigor, and in
activity in those pursuits which feed and
strengthen and elevate him. Then let woman
have every avenue open to her for culture, and
let her express her views on, all subjects with


as much freedom, and be listened to as atten-
tively as man.
	There need be no rivalry between men and
women, there should be none; let each preserve
his or her own identity. Nature has made
sufficient compensation for the peculiarities of
each. Let woman remember that no home
can be really attractive without intelligence,
without a broader sympathy than that which
confines itself to one's own family. Whatever
efforts woman can make, whatever she may do
that is not detrimental to home life, that she
should be permitted to do without ridicule and
without censure. [handwritten] E. B. Wells.


