HOME AFFAIRS.

	IF THERE are any Y. L. M. I. A. that issue
manuscript papers who have not reported to
us, we would feel obliged to have them report
by letter at their earliest convenience. State
the name of the paper, the date of its com-
mencement, and how often issued, the subjects
treated upon, or any other items of interest.

	A BOOK entitled "Songs of the Heart," will
shortly be issued. It is from the pen of Han-
nah T. King, a well-known writer and regular
contributor to our columns. The title indicates
the style of the book, as the poems are really
out-pourings of the soul. The first part con-
tains Early Poems, the latter part those of a
later date. This book will be a desirable addi-
tion to the home library, and also to the libra-
ries of the different associations.

	WE ARE most happy to be able to state that
the Executors of the estate of the late Pres.
Brigham Young have been relesed from the
penitentiary; where they were, sent for con-
tempt, by the decision of Judge Boreman
Chief Justice Hunter, the newly appointed
Judge, has revered the decision and given his
reasons in a plain, simple and clear manner in
his speech in the court room. He has
shown respect for the law and manifested a
spirit of fairness which does him credit.

	WE WOULD say to the branches of Relief So-
ciety in the various districts, wards and settle-
ments, that as Stake Conferences are held quar-
terly, it is entirely unnecessary to make other
reports than those made for the Conference.
The same report must be entered in their re-
spective books, and may be read in the branch
meetings, if desired, as of course all cannot
attend the Stake Conference, but a separate
report would be superfluous, and the labor of
the Secretary is not a little thing. Those who
are not acquainted with these matters have
little idea of the work it requires to act as Sec-
retary.

	THE TERRITORIAL Fair of Utah for the year
1879, will commence in Salt Lake City, on the
First day of October, at such place as will be
hereafter designated. The list of premiums
offered, embracing Gold Medals, Diplomas,
Silver Medals, Bronze Medals and Money, it is
hoped will prove a sufficient stimulus to elicit
the finest specimens of Art, Industry and Stock
which our thriving Territory can produce. No
person is eligible to a premium that exceeds
two dollars in value, unless he is a member of
the Society.

	LIST OF LADIES' WORK.—Best collection of
useful and ornamental articles produced by any
Relief Society Silver Medal; Best two pounds
of cocoons, $2; Best one pound of cocoons by a
girl under 13 years of age; $1; Best one pound
of reeled silk, $2 50; Best six home-raised silk
mitts, $2; Best six home-raised silk hair nets,
$2; Best six home-raised silk netted neckties,

[Column 2]
$2; Best six home-raised silk woven neckties,
$2; Best ten yds, home-raised silk ribbon, $2;
Best specimen sewing silk, $1, Best specimen
floss, $1; Best specimen twist, $1; Best four 
yards silk lace, $1 50.

	WE ARE desirous of ascertaining all the facts
in relation to woman's work in any public ca-
pacity, and would therefore respectfully solicit
the Secretaries of the various organizations to
send us a list of the officers of the Society, orAssociation, they represent, and the number of
members enrolled, with the date of organiza-
tion. We often find it necessary to refer to
these things, and would like to be posted in
regard to the matter. Is there a Relief Socie-
ty in ———? and who is the President? and so
forth, are questions asked very frequently in
this office. There are other reasons why we
need to possess positive information on these
subjects, and we shall be glad if the Secretaries
will respond to this call promptly.

	WE HAVE frequently received letters from
sisters residing some distance from this city
and off the line of the railroad, asking if some
of the good sisters who do missionary work
among women's organizations will visit them;
feeling that they need instruction, encourage-
ment and advice from those who are experi-
enced in matters pertaining to woman's work
in an organized capacity in the Church. It is
only right that these sisters should be visited,
although they assuredly are not forgotten, for
it is well known their interests are identified
with the interests of the sisters here, and some
measures will be taken to have them visited
when possible. We are fully aware that the
Bishops and brethren in the country would
willingly take the sisters who visit them from
one settlement to another, and indeed we have
been assured that such would be the case from
North to South. Let the sisters in those far-off
districts be sure that they will certainly be
visited by some of the most experienced sisters
from here as soon as practicable.

	"THE CONTRIBUTOR" is the name of a
monthly magazine about to be published in the
interest of the young people of this Church.
We published the prospectus in our issue of
Aug. 15, and trust our readers perused it care-
fully. The first number of "The Contributor"
will be issued on the first of October next. A
home magazine, with all that the word im-
plies, is needed in any community, and more
especially is it necessary where there are so
many young people yearning for intelligence
of a higher order as there are here. The organ-
ized associations demand some avenue through
which they may be truly represented, and thus
become more positively what their name signi-
fies, MUTUAL helps to each other; and in no
way could this be so well and so satisfactorily
accomplished as through the press, and by a
paper in their own special interest. Therefore,
we hail this new publication as a harbinger of
good to the young, and hope it will receive the
patronage of the people, who are looking for-
ward and expecting great things from our
youth. We trust the young ladies will not be
backward in doing their share towards making
it interesting, by contributing to its [--]lumns.

	SUGGESTIONS HAVE been made by several
people in regard to a library for the inmates of
the penitentiary. It was a good idea, and the
result of the publishing of articles by the daily
papers on this subject has brought forward a
number of books, magazines and newspapers
for the use and recreation of the prisoners. The
work has commenced and we hope it will con-
tinue. It may be the means of stimulating
some and arousing the faculties of their better


natures, and giving them fresh thoughts; but at
anyrate it will afford them a pleasant temporary
relief in their solitary hours; and who knows
what good seed may be sown in their hearts
through the benevolence of those who aid in
this noble and philanthropic undertaking.
Another thing—there are sometimes innocent
persons thrown into prison, and how weari-
some must be the hours and days when they
sit alone, apart from their loved ones and asso-
ciations. It is good to think of the unfortunate
and isolated, and seek to restore the erring to
the path of righteousness. If one can do but
little, remember even the little may be like
the widow's mite mentioned by the Savior.
We trust our sisters will reflect upon this sub-
ject, and not leave their books and magazines
tossing about until they are too much torn to
be read, but gather up a quantity of them and
forward them forthwith for the benefit of those
who are so unfortunate as to be shut out from
the rest of mankind. Be charitable with that
we have, that the Lord may bless us more
abundantly. There may be some redeeming
features in the characters of criminals, or ex-
tenuating circumstances, that the masses are
ignorant of.


