	SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., July 31, 1879.

	Well, here it is the very last day of the
second summer month! So little done, so
much left undone that was laid out to be
accomplished before the close of this period
of time. Here I have been, until weeks
counted months of precious time gone, in
this great, stirring, busy, fast city, seeing,
hearing, watching, waiting for I scarcely
know what, and always and ever intending
to do myriads of good things, finish numer-
ous pieces of thought-work, and send them
out through the enchanted realms of the
press, to help defend the right, expose the
wrong, cheer somebody's solitary hour,
make somebody happier, kindle a smile
upon some sad face, or a hope in some des-
pairing heart. Indeed, we meant to do a
vast amount of work, while one duty con-
stantly lapped over upon the trail of an-
other and one important, or unimportant
event followed another in such quick suc-
cession that before we were aware the door
of the very last day of the month had swung
back upon its invisible hinges, and the fig-
ures "31" stared us in the face, nay, almost
overwhelming us with the astounding fact
of much unfinished work upon our hauds.
	A grain of sand is a little thing, that
would scarcely be noticed in a cup of water,
yet the hard beach, on which the mighty
ocean beats with fury, and over and against
which its monster waves are stayed, is
made up of these small grains of sand. A
drop of water is a little thing, yet the vast
ocean is made up of these drops. A mo-
ment is a small fraction, or atom, of time,
yet moments make up the threescore years
and ten allotted to mortal existence; com-
paratively few reach that period, they drop
all the way along from a second of time
down to old age, the threescore and ten,
and to some there is an extension beyond
this portion of years allotted; but when
the last day comes it is useless to plead or
petition for further time to close up unfin-
ished business.
	From the first day of mortal pilgrimage,
the angel of time follows with warning
whisper, "Prepare!" Yet all the bright
morning of youth we loiter, linger over
some glittering toy, or saunter, playing by
the way, chasing gay butterflies, until, ere
we are aware, the hot rays of the noontide
su[-] are upon us, and whether we would or
no, we are forced to take up the burden of
life and move on. Sometimes, alas! we
move in a careless, listless manner, never
heeding the warning voice, "Prepare, pre-
pare!" but when the last moment comes,
time is up; it stops short, like "Grandfa-
ther's Clock," "never to go again." Time
ends, eternity begins.
	Well, what are those who have only a
remnant of this precious material going to
do? Sit still with folded hands when there
are so many wrongs to be righted, so many
to be clothed and fed, so many souls to be
won from the paths of darkness, so many
captives to be released from the prison of
evil habits, lifted out and up into the light
of liberty and truth? No, no! this will
never do! we must not be idle. But there
seems a positive necessity for some new
and better machinery than has ever yet
been invented, (wonderful age though it
be) by which we may manufacture garments
from the shreds of our immortality, to leave
behind us when we have joined that "innu-
merable caravan" and taken our places in
the silent chambers of the dead. True,
the lightning of the clouds is sent around
the world and under old ocean's bed to the

[Column 2]
bidding of mankind, but for ordinary life-
work this is not available, and it is no use
waiting and wishing, for the faithful hands
on the dial of time are warning us to con-
tinue the conflict, if we would conquer in
the "great coming battle." So we will take
up such instruments as are within our reach,
and if we cannot handle the sword we will
gather a few smooth pebbles that perchance
may slay some giant (or at least a dwarf
giant) that stands in the way of human
progress and reform. If we cannot con-
centrate all the pulsations of our hearts that
are now made in the space of twenty-four
hours into one mighty throb-beat, which
scientists declare is of sufficient force to
throw a ton of iron a hundred and twenty
feet into the air, we can, by determined,
persistent labor, achieve in fragments, re-
sults which in the aggregate will have great
weight and magnitude.
	And now, even if it is the last day of
the month, and the last part of it at that,
we will make an effort to grant your very
reasonable request, and in part, at least, ful-
fill our promise to your dear EXPONENT.
We need not occupy much time or space in
describing the geography of this peculiar
and wonderful place, for a portion of your
readers, we are certain, are fully aware of
the fact that San Francisco is a city built
upon sand. Unwise though it may be, it
is nevertheless true; sand-flats and sand-
hills, and a great portion made-land over
the water. It is affirmed by knowing ones
that all these sands contain gold. If so,
the owner of a sand-bank may be the pro-
prietor of a gold-bank; but this is rather
mixed and benefit doubtful. The sand-
hills are usually steep and lofty, and from a
distance appear almost as inaccessible as an
eagle's nest among mountain crags the
princely dwellings that crown them,—
doubtless some of the dwellers partake of
the haughty, warlike spirit of this bird of
prey, for it is asserted, and ofttimes reiter-
ated, that they swoop down and gather up
much spoil from the sons and daughters of
toil, with as little remorse as this self-same
bird exhibits in carrying away the one poor
little ewe lamb of the flock. To my mind,
however, such a commanding view of land
and water, of a bay large enough to float
the navies of the world, navigated and
beautified a rare combination of island,
mountain, plain, city and hamlet, would
naturally tend to inspire the heart to ways
and means of improving and benefiting
their fellow creatures toiling below them,
and that plunder would be as far from
thoughts as light from Egyptian darkness;
or, to manufacture a modern figure, as far
from them as the new political parties of
this State are from electing their nominated
candidates for Government or City office.
And by the way, California abounds in par-
ties; they seem to be made to order, and
we assure you the assortment is varied and
interesting—calculated to suit the tastes of
all classes and conditions. All a man has
to do (the women do not have this precious
privilege as yet) is to decide as to the party
with which he will vote at the coming elec-
tion. Indeed, to say the least, this is a rare
season for political parties in the Golden
State. They spring up like mushrooms,
and among the clear-thinking portion of
the people, both men and women, these su-
perfluous parties are considered of no prac-
tical use. There is a strong sentiment, too,
among the women, that all this fog froth
will be scattered by the light of the "better
day coming." Then "the lord of creation"
will not have things all his own way. They
see and feel the danger of this strife, and
although they do not desire to [--]ume irk

[Column 3]
some and responsible duties, which the
Sixteenth amendment will thrust upon
them, they will not shrink from their part
in securing and enforcing laws that shall
tend to promote the greatest happiness to
the greatest possible number of the people.
This proposed amendment is the hope of
thousands and tens of thousands, not of
women only, but of true, noble-hearted,
far-seeing men; and it is bound to come,
and for it we will work and pray, and let
all who desire peace and good order say,
"Amen!"
	We might enlarge further upon this sub-
ject, having attended several great political
rallies and taken notes of observation; our
aspirations are increasingly decided for the
decent in politics. Time and space warn
me to leave the matter for the present. We
have so many things to say, so much to de-
scribe, that we almost fear to commence up-
on anything; for we are in the condition of
the little girl, who, when enquired of why
she talked so much, replied, "Cause I have
something to say." So we have something
to say. And first, if you please, we will
give a pen picture of a visit to "Cliff House"
and "Golden Gate."

(To be continued.)


