MOUNT TIMPANOGOS FROM AMERICAN FORK CANYON Courtesy of Dr. Walter Cottam.
 
Mary E. Richmond Philanthropist and Social Worker By Amy W. Evans
On the second day of the new year of 1929, some of Mary E. Richmond's friends met in the hall of the Russell Sage Foundation, New York City. The meeting was held in her honor. They spoke of her personality and the qualities that made her the leader and the pioneer that she was in the field of social work. They told of some of her achievements and the depth and breadth of her influence upon the new profession she was instrumental in establishing. Many had known her for years as friend and coworker.
MARY RICHMOND'S SMILE
As a keynote of the occasion the first speaker said, "There was a certain smile that Mary Richmond reserved for bombast and overstatement. Pretense, exaggeration, words instead of ideas, would always evoke it. And so we must be cautious today and not exceed the facts; to try for the 'just word' that so delighted her, remembering that wise and quizzical smile. * * * We are gathered here to celebrate the fact that she was our great leader; and to lift up our hearts and strengthen our resolve in the light of her memory."
HER WORK AND CHARACTER
Through her books she was our friend and the woman of our organization, who, as so many have done, have studied "The Good Neighbor," "Social Diagnosis," "What is Social Case Work?" These have been a light and a guide to our feet in our efforts to improve our social welfare work. Miss Richmond, who died September 12, 1928, in New York City, was born in Belleville, Illinois, in 1861. Her parents died at an early age, and she went to live with her grandmother and an aunt in Baltimore. There she graduated from high school but, because of straitened circumstances, was unable to continue her formal education.
HER HARD WORK IN YOUTH
When she was sixteen, she went to New York to a position in a publishing house, but received a mere pittance as a wage. Becoming ill, she returned to Baltimore, where she found work as a bookkeeper in a store and later in a family hotel. During these years she was a student, reading constantly. All her life she had an unquenchable thirst for knowledge and ideas, and her reading was broad and varied. "She faced the bitter hardships of these early years honestly, and found her way out through hard intellectual work. She apparently never pitied herself, nor permitted fancy to smooth the rough edges of fact."
In 1889 the Charity Organization Society of Baltimore advertised for an assistant treasurer. Miss Richmond applied, because this work would take her out of doors, as it included the collecting of funds, and being physically frail she felt this would be good for her.
HER SOCIAL WORK BEGINS
"At once in her new work, she showed her characteristic keenness of perception and thoroughness. To be a good collector she must be able to interpret to others the work of the society. To interpret it well, she must have a first hand knowledge of the work itself." She soon became a friendly visitor, and that was the beginning of her social work. She was then twenty-eight years old.
Connected with the Baltimore Society at that time were three notable men, President Gilman of Johns Hopkins University, Mr. Charles J. Bonaparte, a leading lawyer, and John M. Glenn, "a rare personality who had become blind in early manhood, but lived in activity and marked intellectual insight." These men were quick to recognize ability and keenness of mind and, gave opportunity and encouragement for their development. They soon became aware of Miss Richmond's powers. She became the secretary of the Charity Organization Society, receiving their support in her plans to bring system and effectiveness into the charity work. At that time the work was mostly in the hands of volunteers; but the thinking men and women among them realized that their methods of giving "charity" were not satisfactory. It took the vision and courage of Miss Richmond to venture out of the trodden paths in the field of social work and discover new and better ones.
WHAT SHE ACCOMPLISHED
John M. Glenn, director of the Russell Sage Foundation, so long her co-worker and friend, said of her, "The death of Miss Richmond will be an incalculable loss to the whole field of social reform; for in her we have lost a fearless pioneer. Since her entrance into the field of social work, she has untiringly blazed the trail in behalf of the individualized method of helping human beings out of trouble. Her insistence that solutions of people's problems can only be worked out, case by case, rather than by treating 'types' of poverty, gave rise to the generally accepted term of 'social case work,' as a description of this particularized method of procedure."
SHE HAD MANY INTERESTS
Miss Richmond's interests in Baltimore went beyond her duties as secretary of the Charity Organization Society. She was interested in music of which she was very fond, and promoted concerts in connection with her church. She made a plea for good music in the public parks in summer. In her church she was a Sunday School teacher, and led a class in the study of Shakespeare on a week night. She was very fond of poetry. As a member of a club of working women, she was their representative at their national conventions. Their welfare and their opportunities were of great concern to her. In the meantime she edited a paper called the "Charities Record," published eight times a year, and wrote her first book, "Friendly Visiting Among the Poor."
TAKES CHARGE IN PHILADELPHIA
In 1900 she was asked to go to Philadelphia and take charge of the Charity Organization Society there, which she did; and during her nine years there, accomplished a marvelous work. In that day financial support of all this work was placed on the executive's shoulders. After reorganizing the society she freed it from debt. She secured $81,000 for a new Wayfarers' Lodge and raised an endowment fund of $55,000. In order to do this she wrote thousands of letters, reports, and pamphlets. Her example in this work also was soon followed the country over, greatly to the benefit of social work.
"She led in securing the passage of Wife Desertion and Non-Support legislation, and in forming the Pennsylvania Child Labor Committee, which secured child labor legislation; in establishing the Juvenile Court, the Children's Bureau. She led in the Housing Investigation in 1905, and promoted the organization of the Housing Association. She set in motion the movement that resulted in legislation providing institutional care for feeble-minded women and children, organized public meetings to consider social legislation, aroused city officials to enforce the law against street-begging, and advocated schools of philanthropy for training in social work."
OTHER IMPORTANT LABORS
These are but a few of the things she accomplished in social reforms. Her skill and sound judgment were also effective in preventing development of many unsound projects. In 1909 she was appointed director of the Charity Organization Department of the Russell Sage Foundation in New York. This position gave her opportunity for study, writing, and teaching, thus making the results of her years of experience in social work available for others. During the war she aided in the work for soldiers' families. And it was she who gave to this work the name of "Home Service." Many of the phrases she coined are common property, such as "Broken Homes," "Social Case Work," "Social Diagnosis."
PHASES OF HER WORK
Though she had no college degree, Smith College in 1921, conferred upon her the degree of Master of Arts "for her development of methods of social work which have given the scientific basis of a new profession." In her "Social Diagnosis" she systematized processes and developed a technique of social work which earned for her that honor.
As a preparation for the International Conference of Social Work held in Paris in the summer of 1928, Miss Richmond's book, "What is Social Case Work," was translated into French. Her own answer to the question she gives as follows: "Social Case work consists of those processes which develop personality through adjustment consciously effected, individual by individual, between men and their social environment."
A French physician, who translated her book, expressed the opinion that it would be of great assistance to the social workers of Europe. Just before her death she completed her book "Marriage and the State" which is now published by the Russell Sage Foundation.
WAS HAPPY WHEN HELPING OTHERS
Those who knew her best say she was never happier than when she was giving to others the results of her study and experience. "She had the true professional spirit that the creation of one is the common property of the group," and down to the last day of her life she was receiving letters from people who tried to tell her how much she had done for them.
Robert M. Yerkes says of her: "Intellectually alert, diversified in interest, educated by practical experience more largely than by schools, yet deeply cultured by breadth, variety, and complexity of human relations, together with extensive reading, she was able to assimilate experience and to transmute it into beneficent service. Genuinely sympathetic, socially minded by training—if not by nature—quick in perception of significant relations, as also of humor and pathos; responsive, but not effusive, this sturdy and independent personality met the world and shaped it in conformity with her ideals. * * * From her personality and achievements we read: 'Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make ye free;' and as a text of social service 'ye shall understand and understanding shall make ye kind.'"
MARY E. RICHMOND
SHE HAS NO SUCCESSOR
Another friend said: "About the things she believed in she could be arrogant; but about herself and her accomplishment she was humble. If she had to make her own summing up, I think it might have been in the words of one who was not the least among her literary loves. 'Blessed is he who has dropped even the smallest coin into the iron box which contains the precious savings of mankind.' * * * Personally, I refused to believe that Mary E. Richmond is dead. It is such as she who furnish all the proof I need of immortality. There could be no such cosmic wastefulness as to quench such spirits utterly. All those years of painful acquirement and outgiving, of rigorous self-discipline to the enlargement of her powers, cannot go to waste."
Frank J. Bruno, says of her: "It is ridiculous to think or to look around for a successor. The builders of trails through unknown wildernesses have no successors. They have followers, those who take up the work where the pioneers have laid it down. * * * * The passing of Miss Richmond further draws down the curtain upon a group of men and women that is rapidly disappearing, battle-scarred, courageous pioneers of whom we are likely to say in the years ahead of us, that there were giants in those days."