[Vol40 | October 1953 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: October Twilight]

She tidied the apartment and then prepared 

 —OCTOBER 1953 lunch. Bill was still working on the car, doing something to the wheels. That's the only recreation he has, working on that car. If we had our own home, Bill could have a workshop. I'll mention that to him, she decided. At lunch Bill ate a large piece of the pie and admitted, a_ little grudgingly, that it would be nice to have their own cherry tree. Luncheon was over; three-yearold Karl and two-year-old Ann, hair combed and_ faces _ scrubbed, perched on the back seat of the car, eager for the ride. HEY drove out along the' city streets, and Bill turned as Sally directed him on the map. The paved street ended, and_ they crunched along on gravel, and then the gravel ended, and they billowed along through dust. "Yah, fine thing. The car." "Oh, but darling, look how nice these homes are—everything is landscaped, and see those nice, big yards. This is just like the country." "T haven't seen a grocery store for eight blocks." "Well, with a car, that won't matter.", "Mail boxes, huh!" I just washed "Here it is. Here's the name on the box." A low brick wall fronted the place, and the lawn sloped down to the white painted house. There were many trees, and a great weeping willow in the side yard. Wisteria swung above a long porch that seemed to run around the side of the house. They stepped out of the car. A kind of feathery weed lined the ditch bank. Its smell was pungent—and nostalgic. "Oh, Bill, it's lovely! And look, wisteria."' "Yeah, it's pretty nice, all right. And not too far from work. But don't get carried away. I'm going to inspect the foundation before I buy the place." The children were frolicking over the lawn, examining the willow tree. "Well, let's go see the owners." As they started down the brick path, Sally stopped. "I just thought of something else Grandma had— crickets. Listen?" Sally looked at her husband. Everything was all right. 'This was home.