[Vol40 | October 1953 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: The Framers of the Constitution and Their Work]

Dr. G. Homer Durham
Vice-President, University of Utah

To build a strong house, adequate building materials, intelligent workmen, and a sound plan are required. If any of the three is missing, the structure suffers. In producing a frame of government for a political system, the problem is similar but infinitely more complicated and difficult.

Whereas the achievements of architecture and construction engineering are virtually numberless, the net produce of statecraft over six thousand years of civilization is numbered and relatively small, perhaps two or three hundred "specimens." The great Roman state had an existence for two millenniums—from about 750 B. C. until the final expiration of the Eastern Empire at Constantinople in 1453 A. D. Queen Elizabeth II can look back to Alfred and a millennium of subtle growth for the British state and its marvelous commonwealth system. The Roman and British states were produced less by conscious design, however, than they were painfully evolved.

Each has contributed its great legal system to the world—the civil law of Rome, and the common law of England, each as vital and alive today as centuries ago. In rather interesting contrast, the Constitution of the United States reflects conscious design. Gladstone's tribute is well known. However, it must not be forgotten that the "building materials" of all previous systems, including Persia, Greece, Rome, and Europe, were available. As Samuel B. Pettengill wrote, "Our Constitution was 'far brought from out the storied past.'"

The main mechanical features and principles of the Constitution—written law, federalism, separation of powers modified by a check-and-balance system, republicanism—were at least 2,000 years old as political "specimens" although not extensively used nor brought into harmonious relation in one system. It is wonderful that the framers wisely selected the right materials, and avoided the use of others. Who were these men? What were their attitudes? George Washington, who presided over the fifty-five members of the convention, said: "Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest can repair. The event is in the hand of God." Jefferson, who was in France and not present, called the group "an assembly of demi-gods." Of the 55 who attended (74 were chosen), 31 were lawyers; 31 had served in the Congress; the average age was 42. Madison, "the master
