[Vol40 | October 1953 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science The Place]

Let any doubter see, in these, their choice Has been a happy one. The sunset years For them are bright with faith, and free of fears.
Sovial eee —ierGonstituiion of the United States Lesson 3—The Place of the Constitution in History Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, January 26, 1954
Objective: 'To review briefly the most important documents and events which preceded the Constitution and to show that the Constitution of the United States was the crowning achievement in man's struggle for freedom. N order to properly evaluate the Constitution of the United States, some attention to its historical significance is necessary. This evaluation should come early in this course of study, in order to provide perspective and background for the lessons which follow. Our aim is to enhance the appreciation of the members of Relief Society for the Constitution and the great concepts of liberty and justice which it embodies. An examination of its place and significance in history should add materially to that appreciation, and should further stimulate the interest and desire of Latter-day Saint women to learn all that they are able to learn concerncerning the Constitution. Historical Significance of the Constitution Historically, the Constitution should be viewed from two standpoints. First of all, we should be interested in the place which the Constitution occupies in history as an accomplishment on the long and difficult road which man has followed in his quest for freedom and opportunity to exercise free agency. Secondly, how does the Constitution, as a political document and framework of government compare with all of the attempts of men to organize governments or human societies which preceded it or which have since been attempted? Historical Documents Preceding Constitution It must be remembered that the Constitution by no means represents the first or only attempt of man to attain free and democratic government. History records many such attempts going back many centuries. In the brief space here available, we can do no more than very briefly refer to the more important historical documents which preceded the Constitution. The Constitution of the United States is first and foremost of Anglo-Saxon origin. It is true that certain very fundamental concepts of government which form part of our constitutional system came from countries other than England. We are deeply indebted to the great philosophers and thinkers responsible for those concepts. 'Thus, for example, the great Greek philosopher Aristotle, and de Montesquieu (Mon' tes ku), the great French philosopher, were among those who could and, possibly, should be named who made philosophical contributions on government which have become a very definite part of the system which we now enjoy. 705 
 —OCTOBER 1953 A Perry Picture Copyright 1915
From a Painting by Rothermel (1817-1895) THE LANDING OF THE PILGRIMS For our purposes, however, we shall be largely concerned with AngloSaxon institutions and documents which formed the vast historical background of the Constitution. Anglo-Saxon Background In Anglo-Saxon history, perhaps the first recorded beginning relating to democratic government was the concept that people who are governed should have some voice in determining who should do the governing. 'This concept was given effect by the ancient Saxons before the Norman Conquest (1066 a. P.). They had a system of government which made provisions for the election of their kings. 'Those kingships were not hereditary, as has usually been the case. By this system the Saxons were able to prevent the perpetuation of despotic tule. If a king was a tyrant, the succession of the tyranny was, to some extent, controlled. One of the fundamental principles of democracy is the right of people to select those who are to govern. Thus we see that this principle had a very early beginning in the minds of men. Charter of Henry I After the Norman Conquest, the Norman kings ruled by divine right, and most of them refused to give any recognition to the democratic principle of giving the people a voice in the selection of their rulers or in government itself. However, these principles were given at least LESSON DEPARTMENT partial recognition by Henry I about 1100 AD. In his reign there was promulgated what came to be known as the Charter of Henry I. In it the principle of constitutional tule, as it had existed prior to the Conquest, received re-aftirmation. This charter was a political document of extremely great importance and far-reaching consequence. It deserves the recognition which it has received as a milestone on the path of liberty. After Henry died, his successors repudiated this charter and even went to great lengths to have it de- _ stroyed. The authors of the charter, with great astuteness and foresight, had one hundred copies of it made. It was well that they did so, because the successors of Henry hunted throughout England to locate and destroy the entire one hundred copies. They nearly succeeded, because by the time of Magna Charta there was in existence but a single copy. 'This one copy survived, hidden away in some place which was forgotten, until it was brought forth in the reign of King John to remind him of the guaranties of individual liberty which it contained. Magna Charta Magna Charta, or Great Charter (which is what its Latin name means) was written in 1215 A. D. This great charter is the foundation of constitutional liberty as we know it today. It was forced from a reluctant and stubborn king by his rebellious barons and subjects on the battefield. There followed a period of English history marked by arbitrary, cruel, and tyrannical rule. 707
From Magna Charta came, among other things, the concept of the right of an accused to a fair trial by a jury of his peers. It further repudiated the doctrine of absolutism, that is to say, the arbitrary power of kings and rulers to govern as they pleased without being answerable to anyone but their own private consciences. It sought to impose, to some extent, a government of laws in place of a government of men. In spite of all the efforts to destroy Magna Charta, even by papal bull [formal document of the age having a seal (bulla) attached], i survived, and with it survived a of the concepts of constitutional liberties which we enjoy today. Magna Charta marked the first time in England that an absolute ruler was forced to recognize the rights of common men. It was, in very truth, a magnificent beacon light of human freedom. Powers of English Courts and Parliament Expanded As time went on, other developments in England occurred which enlarged and extended the liberties and freedoms of Englishmen. Among other things, the courts of law gradually gained independence over the executive power which created and appointed them. It became established that judges should interpret the laws without regard to the wishes of the ruler, and even in cases where the king himself was a party, the law, and not the kingly desire or wish, must control. This, of course, gave great impetus and security to free institutions. 'The powers of the English Parliament 

 —OCTOBER 1953 expanded and finally became the lawmaking power, not merely advisory or consultive as in its early history.
With the principle of divine right and arbitrary rule abolished, with the power to enact laws safely lodged in the hands of representatives of the people, and with the courts firmly established in their independence, the foundations of the great English democracy became secure, and upon these foundations there developed the great English common law and system of government which we know today.
Concepts of Freedom Incorporated in American Colonial Governments By the time of the American Revolution, all of the essential concepts of free government had been developed in England, and these great institutions of democracy were brought to our shores with the first settlements in America. In addition to this, the colonists had further experience in self-government over a period of 150 years.
Each colony had its own separate charter or grant of governmental power which the colonists exercised.
Separated as they were from the mother country by a vast ocean, and communication with the mother country being, as a consequence, difficult and uncertain, the colonists developed even more pronounced habits of independence.
Nurtured in an environment which encouraged independence, independence flourished and grew. As time went on, collisions and irritations occurred between the authority in the mother country, which was represented by its royal colonial governments, and the independent, spirited colonists. As these frictions grew, and as arbitrary attempts to override local wishes respecting government occurred, there developed in these hardy colonists the determination to cut all ties with the mother country. It is unnecessary to say more than to recall the great event of the Revolutionary War and the consequent independence of these colonists. Constitution—The Crowning Achievement of Man's Struggle for Political Freedom From it all evolved the Constitution. Its framers had a rich and wonderful heritage to draw upon.
There were many precedents to follow. The debt to the precursors of the Constitution was great. The men who wrote the Constitution knew their history. 'They were well versed in the theories and _philosophy of government. By experience they knew the kind of government which they wanted for themselves.
They understood the essential elements of individual freedom.
Giving due consideration to the greatness of the accomplishments on behalf of liberty which preceded the Constitution, that great instrument stands by itself, pre-eminent above all other accomplishments on the path of freedom.
Most men will agree that, historically, the Constitution of the United States represents the crowning achievement in man's struggle for political freedom. It exceeds by far all previous attempts made by men to achieve that end. It was the product of a free people acting alone in_ its sovereign capacity to create a gov- LESSON DEPARTMENT ernment of free men.
Never before nor since has such a successful experiment in government been conceived or undertaken. 'There have been many other attempts made to write constitutions, and there are many nations in the earth today which have a constitutional form of government.
Some of these constitutions, such as that of England, had their initial beginning in grants of power conceded by a sovereign to the people, either forcibly or otherwise. 'The Constitution of the United States, on the other hand, represents the greatest and the first constitution written and formulated by the representatives of a people acting on its own behalf for the purpose of creating the kind of government which it desired to have. Our Constitution has withstood the test of 165 years. It is the supreme law of the mightiest nation the world has ever known.
Under it, common men have enjoyed the greatest measure of liberty and opportunity ever known. The verdict of history places this great charter of liberty upon the pinnacle of all time.
Gladstone characterized the Constitution of the United States as "the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the brain and purpose of man."
Certainly as a political document, we would not be in error in wholeheartedly subscribing to the verdict of that great statesman. In conclusion, we would point out that the Constitution was the glorious final product of liberty and not the beginning of it, and we should remind ourselves of the great debt we owe to those great men '709
Xmas Marsirc FOR LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES — Birthday of a King—Neidlinger 15 a Carol of the Bells—Wilhousky.20
Christ Child Divine—Schumaker.18 i. Christmas Song—Adam.16. Christmas Bells—McCollin — 25 i. In Bethlehem Is Born The Holy Child—Scholin ©2222 ee eceeeeeceeeeeeeeee 15 — Innkeeper's Carol—Warner 22 oe Jingle Bells—Pierpont -.22 ail. O Holy Night—Adam.15 ae SitentNiskreepastaan =. Ee 2173 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY! 45-47
South Main i; Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated above. CL] On Approval [] Charge L] Money Enclosed City & State. C. Jo@S?