Magazine) received high awards in the published poetry division.
Other contributors receiving awards were: Christie Lund Coles, Olive Woolley Burt, Mabel Harmer, Pansye H. Powell, Lael W. Hill, Mary Ek Knowles, and Thelma Lund. —RMrs. Carl J. Christensen Salt Lake City, Utah I cannot refrain from writing to express my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. It is always a joy to me, and I read each issue from cover to cover and re-read much of it. The July issue brings a special delight, for the cover picture, entitled "Los Angeles, California Skyline," is a photograph of beautiful West-Lake Park, with the Elks' Club building and Asbury Apartments in the background. It is very near the vicini where we live, and I often walk through the park and enjoy its restful beauty and the clear, placid lake, with the ducks swimming across its serene surface, as the cover picture so clearly shows.
This beautiful picture brought renewed enjoyment and appreciation of our nearby surroundings. The excellent editorial "Work— Not Drudgery" (by Counselor Velma N. Simonsen) is inspirational and encouraging.
Work meetings are opportunities for happiness. "First Ladies of Our Land," by Elsie C.
Carroll is a very fascinating and worthwhile article.
Those women who held that honored station in days gone by are made to live again and help us to realize the worthiness and high repute of the men and women who have been the leaders of our great country.
These excellent brief biographies have stimulated my interest in American history.
Please continue this interesting series. —Mrs. John A. Gardner Los Angeles, California Page 644 _ The Relief Society Magazine. Alice Morrey Bailey's poem "The Pepper Tree" (May 1953) has a delicately lilting structure, coupled with a homey theme to make a particularly pleasing poem. Eva Willes Wangsgaard's "Beyond the Strength of Rock" (June 1953) presents a beautiful thought handled with flawless craftsmanship. | —Iris Schow Brigham City, Utah The following exchange of letters regarding the editorial "Dwight D. Eisenhower Inaugurated President of the United States" (March 1953, by Vesta P. Crawford) will be of interest to readers of the Magazine. Dear Mrs. Eisenhower: I am sending you the March 1953 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, which is a monthly magazine published by the Latter-day Saints Relief Society, and in which there is a magnificent editorial entitled "Dwight D. Eisenhower Inaugurated President of the United States." I thought your illustrious husband would appreciate reading it. —Rachel S. Willes Salt Lake City, Utah The White House, Washington, D. C. Dear Mrs. Willes: Mrs.
Eisenhower has asked me to thank you for your letter and for the copy of the March 1953 issue of She appreciates your thoughtfulness in calling her attention to the editorial "Dwight D. Eisenhower Inaugurated President of the United States." Mrs.
Eisenhower is putting the article in her scrapbook and thinks it was certainly kind of you to send it to her.
This brings you Mrs. Eisenhower's best wishes. —Mary Jane McCaffree, Secretary to Mrs. Eisenhower Permit me at this time to express my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. We have only four members of the Relief Society here, and we enjoy the contact with the organization as a whole which is afforded through the Magazine. —Ora Nell C. Folkman Fayetteville, Arkansas

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First-Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - _ Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. 2 a Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott | Mary J. Wilson Nellie W. Neal Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen. Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring ~ - Manwaring Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Sloddag? Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 40 OCTOBER 1953 No. 10
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES

FICTION
The Deeper Melody — Chapter 1 by Alice Morrey Bailey 663 Pheasants on the Lawn by Virginia M. Kammeyer 672 Grandpa As a Magician by Mabel Law Atkinson 679
GENERAL FEATURES
From Near and Far 644 Sixty Years Ago 668 Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 669 Editorial: "Their Temples and Their Sanctuaries" by Vesta P. Crawford 670 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities by Margaret C. Pickering 684
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: Ammon and the People of Limhi by Leland H. Monson 691 Visiting Teacher Messages: "And Ye Will Not Have a Mind to Injure One Another" by Leone O. Jacobs 695 Work Meeting: Spending the Clothing Dollar by Rhea H. Gardner 696 Literature: Charles Dickens (Continued) by Briant S. Jacobs 698 Social Science: The Place of the Constitution in History by Albert R. Bowen 705
POETRY
The Salt Lake Temple — Frontispiece by Christie Lund Coles 643 October Twilight by Thelma J. Lund 674 Autumn Sunrise by Della Adams Leitner 675 Homeward by Leone E. McCune 678 October by Evelyn Fjeldsted 683 Interim by Marian Schroder Crothers 694 Remembrance by Catherine E. Berry 690 Women at Conference by Maryhale Woolsey 704 Autumn Leaves by Gene Romolo 710 Summer's Last Bloom by Lucy Woolley Brown 711 Canning Magic by Lydia Bennett Egbert 712

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40
North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year;: payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. 
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts,
