[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: DRAWING IN SCHOOLS. | Author: Unknown]

﻿DRAWING IN SCHOOLS.

	No one branch of study pursued in our
schools has greater claims than drawing as
far as the development of the faculties are
concerned, and no other one enters so
largely into all the practical concerns of life.
Among the many important reasons why
drawing should be introduced into all our
schools, we would enumerate the follow-
ing.
	First. It developes the powers of obser-
vation and trains the eye and hand. To
draw either from patterns or from Nature
requires accurate observation, and habits
are formed that lead to the careful exami-
nation of all objects, and to the perfect obe-
dience of the hand to the mandates of the
will. Drawing also largely tends to the de
velopment of the judgment concerning the
relations of objects; and it can be made an
important instrument in the development
and control of the imagination.
	Second. Through drawing, a great inter-
est in study may be excited. Little chil-
dren are always pleased with representing
the rude outlines of familiar objects, and
children of larger growth with more per-
fect work. The severest studies of the
school-room may be relieved by drawing
exercises, without in any way arresting the
process of continuous mental development.
Drawing also may be made a recreation
which will supersede those of a doubtful
moral character.


SELFISHNESS.—Live for some purpose in
the world. Always act your part well.
Conduct yourself so you shall be missed
with sorrow when you are gone. Multi-
tudes of our species are living in such a 
manner that they are not likely to be re-
membered after their disapperarance. They
leave behind them scarcely any traces of
their existence, and are forgotton almost as
though they had never been. They are,
while they live, like some pebble lying un-
observed among a million on the shore; and
when they die they are like the same peb-
ble cast into the sea, which just ruffles t
surface, sinks, and is forgotten, without be-
ing missed from the beach. They are nei-
ther regretted by the rich, wanted by the
poor, nor celebrated by the learned. Who
has been the better for their life? Whose
tears have they dried up? Whose wants
supplied?  Whose misery have they
healed? Who would unbar the gate of life
to readmit them to existence? What face
would greet them back again to our world
with a smile? Wretched unproductive
mode of existence! Selfishness is its own
curse; it is a starving vice. The man who
does no good gets none. He is like the
heath in the desert, neither yielding fruit
nor seeing when good cometh, a stunted,
dwarfish, miserable shrub.


To wipe all tears from off all faces is a
task too hard for mortals; but to alleviate
misfortunes is within the most limited pow-
er.
	A WEST Newbury (Mass.) farmer before
beginning to pick his apples went to George-
town and bought 250 barrels, thinking that
200 would contain his apples and fifty his
crop of onions. He went at his trees and
filled all his barrels with apples, bought an-
other hundred in Georgetown and filled
them, bought another hundred in Newbury-
port and filled them, and recently he was in
town to buy a hundred barrels more. He
told a friend that where he expected three
barrels on a tree he picked nearly seven.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			DIVERSIONS.
	WOMEN do not talk more than men; they
are listened to more, that's all.
	IT is impossible to have the last word with
a chemist, because he always has a "retort."
	WE are told nothing was made in vain;
but how about a fashionable girl? Isn't she
maiden vain.
	WHEN were there only three vowels in
the alphabet? Before you and I were
thought of.
	SOME of the people of Leavenworth, Kan-
sas, are so lazy that they write the name o
the place, "11 worth"
	ONE of the old settlers of the Isles of
Shoals seeing the name of Psyche on the
hull of a yacht the other day, spelled it out
slowly, and then exclaimed, "Well, if that
ain't the durndest way to spell fish!"
	SENTIMENTAL arithmetic calculates thus:
Two glances make one look; two looks make
one sigh; four sighs make one waltz; three
waltzes make one palpitation; two palpita-
tions make one call; two calls make one at-
tention; two attentions make one fool (some-
times two); two fools make one flirtation;
one flirtation plus two bouquets equal to one
engagement, equal to one marriage.
	WHEN Mr. Wilberforce, the great anti-
slavery advocate, was once a candidate for
Parliamentary honors, his sister, an amiable
and witty young lady, offered the compli-
ment of a new gown to each of the wives of
those freeman who voted for her brother, on
which she was saluted with the cry of "Miss
Wilberforce forever!" when she pleasantly
observed, "I thank you, gentlemen, but I
cannot agree with you, for I really do not
wish to be Miss Wilberforce forever."
	A MINISTER was once preaching about
heaven, and, to show the absurdity of Swed-
enborg's ideas, drew a graphic picture of
the Swedengorgian heaven, with its beauti-
ful fields, fine horses, cows and pretty wo-
men, when, in the midst of his glowing de-
scription, one of the sisters went into rap-
tures, and shouted, "Glory, glory, glory!"
This so disconcerted the preacher that he
paused, when an elder cried out to the
shouter: "Hold on there, sister! you're
shouting over the wrong heaven!"
	IN Cooperstown they tell a story of an
English joker who once visited Fenimore
Cooper. One day, while Mr. Cooper was
dining with the Englishman, he poured out
some native wine—wine from grapes raised
in his own garden. Taking up a glass, and
looking through it with pride, Cooper re-
marked: Now Mr. Stebbens, I call this good,
honest wine. Yes, Mr. Cooper, I agree with
you. It is honest wine—poor but honest.
Mr. Cooper went on telling his "Injun" sto-
ries.
	SEVERAL years ago, when Miss Anna
Dickinson was about to lecture in a Western
town, the gentleman who was to introduce
her to the audience asked what was her sub-
ject, and she replied, "Jeanne d'Arc." He
rose with great gravity and remarked, "La-
dies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure of
presenting to you Miss Anna Dickinson,
who will be remembered as the ardent friend
of the late lamented Lincoln, and who will
instruct you this evening in regard to that
other illustrious man and noble patriot, John
Dark."
	"LANDLORD," said a transient guest at a
cross-road tavern, as he drew near the end
of his dinner, "won't you give me a little

[Column 2]
more pork to eat with this potato?" A lit-
tle later he said: "There was more pork
than I wanted; let me trouble you for a little
more poptato to eat with the pork." A short
time after: "Well, I declare, I've got some
more potato left, and it seems a pity to
leave it—just a small piece of pork, if you
please." It ran on so for some time. At
length the landlord stopped short in front of
his guest and remarked: "Look here, stran-
ger, 'tain't no use. I'm willing to do any-
thing in reason to make that pork and pota-
to come out even, but I've made up my
mind, the way you eat, it can't be did.
You're bound to lap over one or the other
every time. Now, just make up your mind
which you'd rather leave, and leave it and
quit. I've got enough pork and potatoes,
but if you keep on you'll burst."


