[Vol5 | September 1918 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON I THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY - THE LEARNING OF THE PEOPLE]
EDITORIAL.  533 
fit,  not  only  because  it  is  for  their  own  best  good,  but  because 
such  a  course  is  most  beneficial  to  the  general  community. 
If  objections  are  made  that  the  Mutual  Improvement  and 
other  organizations  do  not  meet  the  social  needs  of  the  mem- 
bers, then  let  there  be  such  changes  in  present  methods  as  will 
satisfy  all  the  legitimate  desires  of  the  young  people  for  social, 
artistic,  literary  and  home  entertainment  and  education.  This 
can  easily  be  arranged  by  proper  gradation  of  the  classes,  and  by 
allowing  the  memibership  the  freedom  under  the  organization 
that  will  provide  congenial  companionship  in  every  line  of  devel- 
opment, as  well  as  in  social  affairs. 
It  would  seem,  for  example,  that  a  class  belonging  to  the 
Mutual  Improvement  Associations  could  as  well  arrange,  under 
their  organization,  for  amusement,  study,  culture,  refinement  of 
manners  and  social  intercourse,  in  the  homes  of  the  members  as 
could  be  provided  by  outside  clubs.  They  could  do  it  much  bet- 
ter for  there  is  a  bond  of  love  and  fellowship  where  one  gathers 
under  the  operation  of  the  spirit  of  the  gospel,  that  can  never  be 
found  under  other  influences  and  conditions.  Such  meetings 
would  not  tend  to  alienate  the  members  from  the  ward  organiza- 
tion, but  would  rather  create  enthusiasm  and  loyalty  for  it,  and 
for  the  general  membership,  while  at  the  same  time  providing  for 
the  more  exclusive  social  companionship  which  friends  of  like 
tendencies  so  enjoy. 
There  is  no  need  of  exclusive  clubs  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  The  many  auxiliary  organizations  should  be  made  to 
supply  every  legitimate  public,  social,  and  amusement  want  of 
the  young  people,  and,  in  addition  to  the  regular  Church  and 
quorum  meetings,  should  meet  every  religious  and  ethical  educa- 
tional need  of  our  community. 
Joseph  F.  Smith. 
We  can  easily  see  from  this  counsel  how  simple  and  easy  it 
would  be  to  form  circles,  societies  or  groups  for  any  social  or 
intellectual  purpose,  without  giving  offense  or  doing  injustice  to 
any  one.  If  we  get  the  consent  and  approval  of  the  Presidency  of 
the  Stake,  the  Bishop  of  the  Ward,  and  in  case  of  our  organiza- 
tion, the  President  of  the  Relief  Society,  all  is  right,  and  well. 
Then,  if  we  continue  our  operation  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Relief  Society  or  Bishopric,  good  instead  of  evil  will  flow  from 
our  efforts.  Do  you  see  the  key  to  this  principle,  the  vital  touch- 
stone to  all  our  social,  intellectual  and  business  pursuits?

Guide  Lessons. 
LESSON   I. 
THEOLOGY  AND  TESTIMONY 
First  Week  in  OctobeiJ. 
THE  LEARNING  OF  THE  PEOPLES  OF  THE 
BOOK  OF  MORMON. 
In  the  first  chapter  and  first  paragraph  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, Nephi  tells  us  that  he  was  taught  somewhat  in  all  the  learn- 
ing of  his  father.  This  is  a  very  significant  comment,  for  other 
passages,  coupled  with  the  fact  that  Lehi  appeared  to  have 
adopted  the  writing  forms  of  the  Egyptain  language,  lead  us  to 
infer  that  Lehi,  like  Moses  before  him,  was  versed  in  the  learning 
of  the  Egyptians,  those  descendants  of  Ham  and  Japhet  who  had 
focused  their  creative  genius  in  mental  pursuits.  Moreover, 
Moroni  tells  us,  in  ch.  9,  ver.  32,  33,  that  the  records  have  been 
engraved  down  to  his  own  day  in  what  he  called  reformed 
Egyptian.  Apostle  Orson  Pratt's  footnote  adds  that  "1000  years 
made  great  changes  in  language  not  printed  or  preserved  by 
books."  We  might  add  that  even  printed  languages  are  also 
vitally  altered  in  a  thousand  years. 
Let  us  examine  for  a  moment  just  what  that  meant.  To 
begin  with,  Egypt  was  the  recognized  seat  of  learning  of  the 
ancient  world.  It  meant  precisely  what  it  meant  in  the  days  of 
Shakespeare  for  English  students  to  leave  England  and  go  to 
Padua  to  study  law,  or  Pisa  to  study  medicine.  In  the  middle 
ages  Italy  was  the  place  of  last  resort  for  those  who  would  ob- 
tain the  learning  of  that  period.  In  modern  times  Europe  has 
been  the  world's  University.  From  every  corner  of  the  earth 
students  have  flocked  to  Europe  to  perfect  their  knowledge  of 
science,  letters,  music  and  art.  Now,  just  what  Italy  was  to  the 
middle  ages,  and  Europe  has  been  to  the  modern  world,  Egypt 
was  to  the  ancients. 
Fortunate  indeed  were  these  early  people,  of  the  new  world, 
that  they  had  not  to  grope  about  in  the  dark  for  many  years,  to 
become  acquainted  with  many  things;  but  they  found  in  their 
great  leaders  much  learning  coupled  with  the  inspiration  of  Al- 
mighty God.  Their  beginning  was  the  most  advanced  possible, 
because  of  the  learning  and  vast  experience  of  Lehi,  connected 
as  it  was  with  both  worldly  Egypt  and  devout  Palestine.

GUIDE  LESSONS.  535 
But  what  was  of  vastly  greater  importance  than  any  knowl- 
edge one  man  could  possess,  was  the  Jewish  Scripture  which 
they  had  obtained  and  brought  with  them.  "Heirs  of  the  Ages," 
they  surely  were,  to  borrow  a  phrase  of  Tennyson's;  for  no 
greater  heritage  of  learning  can  possibly  come  to  any  people  than 
that  they  shall  be  possessors  of  the  book  of  books,  the  Bible. 
The  year  1911.  the  tercentenary  celebration  of  the  publica- 
tion of  the  King  James'  translation  of  the  Bible,  was  celebrated 
in  every  English-speaking  nation.  The  ablest  men  of  Great 
Britain  and  America  vied  with  one  another  to  try  to  impress 
people  with  the  matchless  value  of  the  Bible.  This  book,  that 
after  all  the  centuries  is  incomparable  with  any  other  book,  w^as 
possessed — ^that  is,  most  of  the  Old  Testament  was — by  the  peo- 
ples of  the  Western  continent.  But  their  text  was  superior  to 
ours;  their  history  more  perfect  and  more  complete.  They  pos- 
sessed with  writings  of  a  group  of  prophets  and  inspired  men  un- 
known to  us.  We  seek  in  vain  in  the  lids  of  our  Bible  for  Zenos, 
Zenoch,  Zeum,  Ezras.  That  much  else  is  also  lost  to  us  by  the 
omission  of  the  writings  of  these  holy  men  cannot  be  doubted. 
The  marvelous  parable  of  the  wild  and  tame  olive  tree,  so  import- 
ant in  its  lesson,  so  beautiful  in  its  literan,-  quality,  is  from  the 
book  of  Zenos. 
We  feel  that  we  can  best  get  at  the  intellectual  status  and 
learning  of  Book  of  IMormon  peoples  by  analogy.  Never  at  any 
time  have  peoples  with  the  blood  of  Israel  flowing  in  their  veins 
heeded  the  words  of  God  that  they  have  not  become  a  marvel 
and  a  wonder  to  the  nations.  Take  for  example  the  astonishing 
achievements  of  the  Jews,  whom  God  is  surely  turning  towards 
in  these  latter  days. 
We  quote  from  an  article  of  Israel  Zangwill,  published  in  the 
Metropolitan  Magazine,  August,  1915.  In  reviewing  the  war 
record  of  this  people  let  us  keep  two  things  in  mind :  first,  that 
there  are  only  thirteen  million  Jews  in  the  entire  world ;  secondly, 
that  this  is  only  a  partial  record  of  their  first  year's  achievements. 
Air.  Zangwill  says:  "In  England  the  late  Lord  Rothschild 
presided  over  the  Red  Cross  fund,  and  the  Lord  Chief  Justice  is 
understood  to  have  saved  the  financial  situation,  not  only  in  Eng- 
land, but  for  all  her  allies.  In  Germany  Herr  Ballin.  the  Jew, 
the  creator  of  the  mercantile  marine,  and  now  the  organizer  of 
the  national  food  supply,  stands  as  the  Kaiser's  friend ;  in  France, 
General  Heymann  commands  an  army  corps.  Italy  has  joined  the 
.\llies  through  the  influence  of  Baron  Sounino,  the  son  of  a  Jew. 
The  militan-  hospitals  of  Turkey  are  all  under  the  direction  of 
the  Austrian  Jew,  Hecker. 
"The  Jewdsh  bravery  astonished  us  all,"  said  the  vice-gover- 
nor of  Koono,  "and  indeed  the  heroism  of  the  Russian  Jew  has

536  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGA7JXR. 
l)ecome  an  household  word.  More  than  300  privates — they  cannot 
he  officers — have  been  accorded  the  order  of  St.  George.  One 
Jew,  who  brought  down  a  German  aeroplane,  was  awarded  all 
four  degrees  of  the  order  at  once." 
We  have  used  the  war  as  an  illustration,  because  it  is  the 
all-absorbing  topic  of  our  times  ;  but  had  we  chosen  to  cite  achieve- 
ments in  statesmanship,  literature,  music,  painting",  etc.,  the  result 
would  have  been  no  less  remarkable. 
Ephraim's  record  is  equally  w^ondcrful,  when  we  think  how 
numerically  small  he  is.  Consequently,  reasoning"  by  analogy,  it  is 
perfectly  logical  to  think  of  the  peoples  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  at 
such  times  as  they  were  seeking  to  serve  the  Lord,  as  peoples  of 
great  intelligence,  great  talent  and  great  achievement.  Their  own 
records,  the  findings  of  the  archaeologists,  and  the  marked  talent 
of  many  Indians,  found  from  Canada  to  Chili,  all  substantiate  such 
conclusions.  Consequently,  we  feel  that  it  is  no  matter  of  suppo- 
sition or  conjecture,  to  say  that  these  people  produced  great 
statesmen,  great  financiers,  great  captains  of  industry,  great  or- 
ators, poets,  painters,  in  a  word,  that  they  had  many  great  artists 
and  great  artisans. 
But  these  people  suffered  from  tremendous  limitations  in 
trying  to  reveal  themselves.  The  ancient  people  of  the  eastern 
world  used  both  papyrus  and  parchment  in  their  writings.  All  of 
the  writings  of  the  Nephites  come  to  us  on  metal  plates  of  gold 
or  brass.  The  niechanical  difficulties  of  engraving  one's  history 
on  plates  of  brass  and  gold  can  hardly  be  estimated.  The  neces- 
sity for  careful  discrimination  in  material  and  the  necessity  of 
brevity  would  be  an  ever-present  thought.  Then,  too,  we  have,  in 
the  main,  only  an  abridgment ;  which  means  that  many,  many 
things  which  would  throw  great  light  on  the  advancement  of 
these  people  has  of  necessity  been  stricken  out. 
But  all  the  difficulties  have  not  been  taken  into  consideration 
when  we  think  of  engraving  on  metal  plates  ;  the  Egyptian  lan- 
guage of  hieroglyphics  would  be  easier  to  engrave  than  the  written 
language  of  modern  times,  yet  even  then  it  would  be  a  long  and 
tedious  task. 
Yet,  handicapped  as  they  were,  think  what  a  glorious  record 
they  give  us  of  Christ's  ministry  on  this  continent.  They  tell  us 
that  it  is  beyond  the  power  of  man  to  make  a  record  of  what  He 
said,  and  of  His  manner  of  speech,  and  yet  thev  have  transmitted 
enough,  that  we  know  first,  how  terrible  were  the  cataclysms,  and 
secondly,  how  marvelous  was  His  ministry. 
Elder  George  Reynolds,  in  discussing  the  knowledge  these 
l)eople  had  of  historv  and  geography,  thinks  there  is  evidence 
that  the  Lord  revealed  a  great  deal  to  them  that  was  quite  in  ad- 
vance of  the  knowledge  of  the  world  in  general.     In  support  of

GUIDE  LESSONS.  537 
this  belief  he  cites  the  following- :  Nephi  told  his  brethren  that 
they  were  upon  an  isle  of  the  sea.  "Now,  says  Elder  Reynolds, 
"this  knowledge  they  could  iiot  possibly  have  had  save 
through  the  inspiration  of  God,  for  this  fact  was  not  authenticated 
by  surveys  and  explorations  until  1847.  It  was  as  late  as  1854 
that  these  surveys  were  put  to  the  test.  During  that  year  Cap- 
tain McClure  sailed  from  the  Pacific  to  the  Atlantic  Ocean 
through  the  Arctic  Ocean." 
It  is  known  through  the  Book  of  Abraham,  that  Abraham's 
knowledge  of  astronomy  was  far  in  advance  of  the  knowledge  of 
this  time ;  the  peoples  of  the  BoOik  of  Mormon  appear  to  have  had 
astronomical  knowledge  far  in  advance  of  that  of  the  European 
world.  Alma,  in  speaking  to  Korihor,  said,  "All  the  planets 
which  move  in  their  regular  form  doth  witness  that  there  is  a 
supreme  Creator."  Another  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  writers  tells 
us.  "It  is  the  earth  that  moveth  and  not  the  sun."  It  was  many 
centuries  after  the  destruction  of  the  Nephites  that  the  peoples  of 
Europe  accepted  the  movement  of  the  earth  as  a  fact. 
Elder  Reynolrls  thinks  it  is  not  at  all  improbable  that  the  Ne- 
]')hites  were  acquainted  with  the  Book  of  Abraham.  Says  he, 
"They  undoubtedly  had  the  writings  of  Joseph,  the  son  of  Jacob, 
as  these  are  quoted  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
found  the  writings  of  Abraham  and  Joseph  together  with  the 
Egyptian  mummies." 
QUESTIONS. 
1.  What  reference  does  Nephi  make  to  his  father's  learning, 
in  the  first  paragraph  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  ? 
2.  Why  is  this  a  significant  comment  ? 
3.  What  written  language  had  Lehi  apparently  adopted  ? 
4.  Why  was  it  fortunate  for  the  people  of  Lehi  that  he 
added  the  culture  and  learning  of  Egypt  to  that  of  Palestine  ? 
5.  Why  is  the  Bible  the  greatest  treasure  of  learning  that 
any  people  can  possess  ? 
6.  When  the  Lord  commanded  Nephi  to  slay  Laban,  that 
the  plates  containing  the  Scripture  might  be  obtained,  what  did 
He  say  would  happen  to  a  nation  that  did  not  possess  the  Scrip- 
tures? (I  Nephi  3:19,20;  4:13,15;  Omni  ver.  17). 
7.  In  what  respects  was  the  Bible  of  the  Nephites  superior 
to  our  Hebrew  Bible? 
8.  Reasoning  by  analogy,  what  conclusions  might  we  come 
to  relative  to  the  learning  of  the  peoples  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
at  such  times  as  they  were  serving  God? 
9.  Give  any  illustrations,  or  cite  any  knowledge  you  may 
have  of  the  talent  of  the  American  Indian.  Of  the  Jewish  people 
of   modern   times.