[Vol5 | September 1918 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Rags and Realities Ruth Moench Bell]

Rags and Realities. By Ruth Moench Bell The war-time zest for economy had sent Martha Kenton into attic, basement, trunks, drawers and shelves in search of rags and cast-off clothing. A mountain of rags, the accumulation of several years, as well as the accusing fingers of unwise selection and wasteful buying, lay before her. "Whoever could have believed that there could be so many?" She glanced dismally at snowy-haired Grandma, knitting soldier's socks near the window. "Some rather reckless buying in that heap, I fancy," Grandma smiled. "Yes, half of this stuff should never have been allowed to get into the house," the daughter confessed. "And yet I bought it, paid for it, made it, used it and mended it and discarded it. And here it is." "And now you can shake out the dust, wash it, dye it and weave it into a carpet," Grandma mused. "There is that old piece of percale," the daughter continued. "Now why would any woman buy that? It is ugly, somewhat durable, perhaps, but unworthy to endure. It never was a joy to wear and now it is part of the clutter." "And it will be part of a very useful carpet for our understanding," Grandma knitted whimsically. Mrs. Kenton looked up from her rubbish heap to her gently aged mother, who had a way of making innocent remarks, which were later tried and found guilty of considerable depth. This one sounded suspiciously deep so the daughter waited quietly. "I was just thinking," Grandma ventured finally, "if we could only clear our minds once in a while of the 'rubbish of spites and wrongs,' as that new poet, you read to me, called them. There are so many ill-natured rags shoved into out-of-the-way recesses of our minds. They clutter and over-crowd them and leave no room for the fine, new thoughts we might want to fold away." "Wouldn't it be splendid," the daughter agreed, "if we could clear out our minds this way and make a bon-fire of the whole clutter?" "A bon-fire," Grandma chided. "How wasteful! You are not going to make a bon-fire of those rags. Yet some are faded, others are worn thin and others are frankly dirty. Some, of course, are strong and firm but ugly and dusty. But you will shake them and dust them and wash them and dye them and weave a carpet over which you will walk for years." 
 "But these are rags, mother. We can't gather our heap of mental rags and shake the dust out of them, wash them, dye them and weave them into  " "A rug of wonderful understanding!" Grandma finished softly. "This is what I have been doing for years, as I sat here knitting and darning and thinking. And for years I have wondered why I, the keeper of my soul, should have purchased some of the rags, the flimsy, unsightly rags that have cluttered my soul-house for so long. Father's store-house was filled with beautiful materials, soft and firm in texture, beautiful and enduring in color, materials I could have worn every day for a life-time and never have had to tuck away or re-weave. But then I should never have had this wonderful carpet for my understanding," Grandma finished tenderly. "When I think that I went into Father's treasure house and deliberately chose and paid hard cash for yards and yards of envies and jealousies and judgments and criticisms and scorn and contempt and hatred and suspicions and complaints and cut them into garments which I wore and so kept close to me and exhibited myself in before my children and husband and neighbors and friends and wore to church and even knelt and said my prayers in  I blush with shame. All about me were shelf-loads of sympathy and understanding, appreciation and gratitude, love and mercy which would have been far more becoming to me to wear. I would have appeared more lovely in them and they would have taken on a softer sheen as the years went by a gentler radiance because of the tender memories and associations. "As I came away from His store, time and again with parcels, I wonder that Father did not say "Lay them down, dear, they are not worth carrying home, much less wearing and patching and mending and laying away." But I suppose He only smiled sadly at my choice. "I remember one foolish purchase: two yards of expensive envy when one yard of genuine admiration would have cost less and gone farther. It would have had a softening effect on my features, also. Envy is such a trying color to the complexion. "Another bad buy cost even more and was even less serviceable and becoming. It was a big, bulky coat of condemnation. It was trimmed with yards and yards of criticism, the latest braids of envy. And then it was finished off with great, tawdry buttons of complaints. It was heavy to carry around. It wasn't warm; and the first light shower of understanding wilted it as if it had been paper. "Then there was that big flaring petticoat of doubt and disbelief. My, but that was a cold petticoat for raw days. Mother's warm flannel petticoat of trust and belief was far more comfort-RAGS AND REALITIES. 495 able and it stood the wash and withstood the weather. Why there isn't even a rag of that old petticoat left! Did you ever notice how doubts and disbeliefs shrink and get streaked? And, pshaw! hang them out in the sunlight and fresh air and they fade to nothing! "There was that envy rag, I spoke of, envy over Minnie Hagan's curls. I didn't know it was still lurking about in my dresser drawer. But there it was, under a neat little pile of memories. And when it was dyed, it became one of the rosiest strips of admiration in the whole carpet. I sat right down and enclosed a piece of it in a letter to Minnie. I think she must have put some in her carpet of understanding for we have been great friends ever since. "Another rag I am almost ashamed to mention, a harsh, glaring rag of hatred. It must have looked dreadful near my face. And yet I wore it for years. You see she was a neighbor and her idea of being neighborly was to poke into my affairs with caustic remarks. She was forever advising me how to do my work. I couldn't sweep the back-yard without being advised how to do it. When I got that rag of hatred washed and had rubbed all my personal ill-nature out of it and then dyed it with a knowledge of the little old lady's long, varied experience and hard, trying life, the rag looked greatly transformed. I wondered, as I worked over it, how the little old lady could have preserved so much sweetness and helpfulness. After that we became fast friends. I would beg her to tell me of her life. And soon I found even the advice sweet, coming from such a fund of experience. "I had another little hatred rag. The woman who inspired me to buy this one was forever making mean remarks about me. Well, when I looked over the sediment in the bottom of the tub, after I had washed this rag, I found my own dirt, haughtiness and superiority, you know. I threw that out and dyed the rag with my friendliest acquaintance. Really it was a beautiful strip in the carpet!" The idea of her gentle mother ever being haughty and superior, sent a fluttering smile over Martha Kenton's features! The smile was not lost on the elder lady. "Oh, I had a great pile of contempt rags," she continued. "You see I was a very superior person. And they accumulate more contempt rags than other people ever dream of. There was my contempt for, well almost every one except my self and my own family. And then we moved near to some harsh-tongued Irish. And that was all I saw in them at first. Later I could only see their kind, generous friendliness. "I suppose there will be heaps and heaps of rags of hatred 
 and harsh judgement to wash and dye after this war. Even if all the stories one hears are true, it doesn't help much to listen to them and repeat them. One is almost sure to dress his soul up in some ill-natured rags while listening to these tales of atrocities and repeating them. I shouldn't wonder if some of those harsh colors were responsible for a good many cases of indigestion. Some yellows and greens really do make a person feel bilious. And some glaring reds do make the nerves tense. I have heard so many horrible tales of the doings of the "Mormons" that I am inclined to question lurid tales of all kinds. There are some bad people in every nation, of course. But there are usually several good ones, too. "I've got so I keep a kettle of good-will warm near the fender. I make it up fresh from the herbs of sympathy and understanding growing along the road-side. I just naturally dip all my materials in this good-will dye. And then I try not to soil them with my criticisms and complaints. I do this just as I used to put the blue things in salt water to keep them from fading and just as I used to rinse the ginghams out to shrink them before cutting them out. It really saves so much extra work. And materials are so much more satisfactory dipped in this rosy dye. "I am more careful, too, about my purchases. It is a strange thing, if you buy the cheap things you may charge the account; but you never seem to be able to pay it off. The interest on the debt is about all you can meet. And you meet it at every turn. There is almost never a moment free from the sense of the burden of debt. Yet if we choose the finer things the chief expense is the effort of selection. Father's choicest colors and patterns and textures, I have found, give the best service and satisfaction. And they are very much cheaper and more becoming. It takes a little more effort at first; but after a while a person naturally chooses the best. The others look tawdry. And then you must consider the rubbish heap." Martha Kenton sat awed in the presence of her fragile mother. How little she had really known of the thoughts that had been going on in that snowy head. "Why have you not told me all this before, mother," the daughter asked. "I don't know, dear," the mother mused. "Sometimes we are not ready for confidences. To-day you seemed ready. I have wondered so often why we, the wealthy heiresses of The Great King, should clothe our souls in garments so unbecoming. None of us would adorn ourselves thus to go out to meet Him. But shall we feel at home in fine apparel if we are so unaccustomed to it? Of course, we need these rugs for our understanding! And we are only human after all," she finished gently.