[Vol5 | September 1918 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON III Genealogy - PERSONAL NAMES]
LESSON III. Genealogy. PERSONAL NAMES. (See Chapter 8, Surname Book). Words are symbols of thought. Words are bodies or tabernacles of thought and emotion. (a) Concepts or thoughts useless unless expressed in words or actions. (b) The power of S}-mbols  thought-words. Family life impracticable without personal names. (c) Sign words made by children and primitive peoples. Ca) The Lord named our first parents. (b) He taught Adam language, and Adam named beasts and birds. Ancient people chose personal names carefully and reverently. (a) Hebrews were reverent. (b) Pagans were superstitious. (c) Impressive ceremonies accompanied christening in olden days. Think how impossible it would be to tell anyone what was in our minds if we had no words with which to communicate with each other. A word is a symbol. Each of the four letters. w-o-r-d, is itself a symbol of another symbol, for words themselves are like the tabernacles of the spirit, they are the bodies which clothe our thoughts and our emotions. It would be unnecessary for us to have thoughts if we had no way of expressing them and no way to put those thoughts into action. Just imagine what we would be like if we were all speechless. We would have to use a sign language as did the ancient savages.
Teh power of a word is greater than we think, because the word actually partakes of the thought or action of which it is the symbol; and if the body is a necessary part of the soul, enclosing the spirit within it and making it possible for the spirit to speak and move and act, so then is the wo d the important part of the thought of which it is the tabernacle, or the body. Let your imagination dwell also a moment on the condition of a family who were born and brought up and given no names by which to call each other. They would have to motion to each other, out in orsuch call confusion each otherand "Say," anrl At chaos. "scarcely a daymancould once the be lived would find a name for the woman and the woman would choose something by which to call her children. Primitive savages, like children, make signs to each other, and this sign language is still used by ome savage races as well as used in a small degree by semi-civilized people. In the army they make signs with little flags from one point to another and from one ship to another, which they call "wig-wagging." God Himself gave Adam and Eve names, as you will find in the Pearl of Great Price. He not only did that, but He also instructed Adam to name the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air (Pearl of Great Price). Indeed we learn from this sacred book that Adam learned to write, and, of course, to read through the teaching of an angel (Ch. 6, verses 5, 6, 7, 8). We know from reading the Bible how reverently and carefully the ancient Hebrews chose names for their children. They were named reverently, because the parents realized that there is a close spiritual connection between a name and the person who bears it. And while anyone need not be unduly influenced for good or evil by his name, still the chances are that there will be an intimate reaction between the name and the person. Pagans became superstitious over naming, and fear often dominated them in their choice of personal names. People who have anv religious belief make ceremonial occasions for christening children, or bestowing upon them names. These ceremonies differed, of course, according to time, place and nationality. QUESTIONS. What is a symbol? (See dictionary.) How do Indians communicate at times? How were Adam and Eve named? Give a name incident from the Bible. What ceremony attends the naming of Latter-day Saint children? What is your personal name? And yours? And yours?
