The Gospel in the Relief Society Educational Program
Elder Howard R. Driggs
I HAVE never faced in all my life so many good and beautiful women. It is an honor and privilege to stand before you, and I humbly pray to God to help me to say those things that will lift us all to higher levels as I am lifted this morning by this occasion. The keynote of what I should like to say is to be found in a song we all love to sing, "Thanks for our teachers who labor with care, that we in the light of the gospel may shine." No other word occurs more frequently or is echoed more beautifully throughout all our scriptures than the word "light." The Savior said, "I am the light and the life," and he advised us to let our
light so shine that a man seeing our good deeds would glorify God, who is in heaven.
If the teacher has one purpose above another, it is to radiate light. It is to illumine truth; it is to lead souls out of the darkness into the light. I think no more beautiful story has ever come to me as to the real work of the teacher than that found in the life story of Helen Keller. As a little girl, Helen Keller enjoyed one brief period of sunshine, of flowers, of bird song, of home joys. Then, suddenly, through dread illness, she was plunged, by being bereft of sight and hearing, into what she called "a prison house of darkness." GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 733 As she came back to consciousness out of that disease, she said she was beating the bars of that physical prison, trying to get back into the light. Yet in that darkness, she might have remained, "had not she come, my teacher, who was to set my spirit free/' Anna Suhi-van, a devoted, understanding, loving teacher, took that little human soul and led her back into the sunshine. She placed in her hands, literally, the key of language to open the prison house. She brought her forth into glorious womanhood, where she could make her contribution magnificently to the world. Every one of US is a teacher, either by example or precept, or both. Every human being is teaching other human beings. It is true that officers and teachers of great organizations such as this are called especially to the privilege. That doesn't take away the duty and the opportunity of everyone of us to lead souls into the light. This is especially true of gospel teachers. Our constant effort should be to make the world brighter, not only today but for all time. We should ever remember this, that so far as the teaching, of the gospel is concerned, the spirit of the gospel is "caught," rather than "taught." One cannot impart the spirit of the gospel by mere words or by a recital of facts. What is in you radiates from you. The Apostle Paul called our attention to this very picturesquely when he said, "Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal." We carry the spirit of the gospel with us, or we do not. If we carry it with us, those around us catch the light of our illumination. It matters not whether we represent an arc light or one of less candle power, our business is to light up the dark corners where we happen to be. Dear old Dr. Maeser, with whom I was privileged to associate in the long ago years, said this once to a class of teachers in training: "You can't teach even arithmetic most successfully unless you radiate something of the spirit of the gospel." It is a challenging assertion, but it is true. Oh, of course there are teachers who seem to radiate little or none of the spirit of the gospel, but they would do better with that spirit, and they are always excelled by those teachers who combine intellect and spirituality. NOW, to your educational program. The Relief Society, in its marvelous way, has spread before its members and its officers and all the world, a well-rounded program touching the various phases of basic life. Every lesson that you teach goes to its highest level only when it is taught with a testimony of the gospel in your hearts. Even in your work meetings, where, with nimble fingers, sisters gather around a quilt and begin to sew, and generally to talk, if the spirit of the gospel is not in that spontaneous expression and in the hearts of those who are doing the work, there is something of vital worth lacking. Many a lesson in gospel service is lastingly impressed by those who scatter sunshine and uplifting thoughts while they work. Apply the same truth to your lessons in Church history. In this study one should keep the mind on the final outcomes and not be led into things of little consequence.
When I was a boy I was brought into this temple yard. On an excursion from Pleasant Grove and West Jordan, some of us school children were privileged to come here and see the temple which was being built. It wasn't up to the square. We were permitted to climb the winding stairs to the top and look over the city. One thing I remember was that this yard was littered with stones, with all sorts of tools. We don't see those things now; we see the glorious temple with its spires pointing heavenward.
Every man's life and every woman's life in the building is likely to have some litter about it, but by what do we judge the life? by the outcome. Think of this when you teach lessons in history. Let the gospel light guide this great work.
In the lessons on literature recently given we started out with that found in the Old Testament and in the New Testament. The central aim of all was to bring you back to the Bible, to make you love that book of books. These courses were not planned for one year. One cannot get out the Bible in eight or sixteen lessons. They were planned to lay a firm foundation for reading and rereading and enjoying the Bible. With that work as a basis and as a standard, we are now entering upon the study of the influence of the Bible and Christian teaching on our
literature. I think that we have here a measuring rod by which we can determine whether any literature that has been created is worthy of a place in our home libraries. A book that does not vibrate a spirit of the gospel is open to serious challenge as to whether it goes into the home or not. There is nothing narrow about this; it is soundly basic for all great literature that will be read and reread vibrates to the story of the Bible.
Parents have today the challenge, as never before, to get closer to the literature of their children. Nothing offers a better chance to get nearer to their hearts and souls than good books. We need to cultivate such a companionship in our homes.
May I pay tribute here to my dear mother, in closing. She made our library the center of our home, and she was ever ready to read some beautiful poem, to tell us some story. She saw to it that even though the linen closet or the china closet might not be as richly furnished as in other homes, she had good books in that room where we loved to gather.
We must pay more attention to the spiritual uplift of our homes. We must unite in getting better books in our homes. We must radiate the light of the gospel there.
God bless you in the great work you are doing, multiply and spread it, that the gospel may shine in every home in its simplicity, its purity, with its saving grace, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. Relief Society?s Expanding Welfare Service Elder Henry D. Moyle Chairman, General Welfare Committee THIS opportunity to advance the welfare program of the Church, though unsolicited, I can assure you is nevertheless deeply appreciated. Nor do I accept this invitation without a keen realization of the responsibility resting upon me. I appreciate this kind of consideration extended me by your able Presidency. I am sure, to the extent that any of us measures up to that which is expected of him, it is due entirely to the assistance he receives from his Heavenly Father. Without the assurance that he will and does help us, many of us, of whom I know I am myself one, would find our tasks insurmountable.
It is with this spirit of dependence upon the Lord that we must all approach our expanding responsibility?the welfare service of the Church. We must further acknowledge our individual insufficiency in carrying on the work by exhibiting a dependence upon each other. There is none of us in this Church so good or great or endowed with power sufficient to magnify his office and calling in the Church without receiving much assistance and in many ways?from his brethren and sisters in the wards and stakes of the Church in which he lives and works.
Welfare work is no exception to this well-established rule, which we might call "the rule of dependency" of the Church. That which I say is, of course, auxiliary to the priest-
hood, not to any quorum in particular, but to all quorums equally. Our spiritual and temporal welfare is so closely interwoven, there can be no clear line of demarcation between the two. No one can say the Relief Society takes care of either spiritual or temporal or secular? and not both. Every visit made by a Relief Society teacher, every class held, inspires someone to live nearer the Maker, and, at the same time, prepares that same person to take better care of herself and of her family temporally.
So we arrive at the first conclusion in projecting our welfare program into the future, and that is a complete organization is an absolute necessity. By this I mean we must first have a Relief Society fully officered and organized and functioning. Second, a welfare committee in each stake and ward on which the Relief Society presidency of the stake and ward are personally and actively represented. When this is the case, the stake Relief Society comes in direct contact each month with the president of the stake and the presidents of the various priesthood quorums, as well as the stake work directors, and the ward Relief Society meets each week with the bishop and the representatives of the priesthood quorums in the ward and the ward work directors, and, at this meeting, should become intimately familiar with the details of the welfare work of the ward and the needs of the membership, and it is at this meeting that they are assigned their duties and responsibilities for the coming month.
OUR basic problem in taking care of our own, as most of you know, is to render each family in the Church able to care for its own. We have perfected, to a marvelous degree, the production of the welfare budget. It is a pleasure for me to report to you all in time that the record of the Relief Society as an organization in assisting to produce this budget has not only been active in producing the budget, but has helped more than any other single agency in the Church to see to it that the budget, to the extent that it has been distributed, has reached those who needed it. I know of no failure, in the Church, of the Relief Society to promptly and adequately do that which they have been commissioned to do by their bishops since the inception of our welfare program. I am sure your future is to do more. We must increase materially our distribution.
You sisters appreciate that in planning for the welfare of the Church, we must produce more than we distribute in order to provide a surplus from which we can momentarily draw in case of a sudden or unexpected turn of events. It is, however, important while securing this insurance that we do not overlook these needs may not be apparent. By so doing we perform more fully our present responsibility and we are, at the same time, able to determine more accurately the extent to which, in the Church, we can better develop means and
methods of distribution, and in every other way fit and prepare and qualify ourselves to more adequately carry on our work in the future, and, above all, to more fully meet promptly any emergency. This, after all, is the best form of insurance of which we can conceive.
THE welfare work, as originally announced by the First Presidency, divides itself into four major subdivisions. We have thus far discussed the first general subdivision, that of temporary relief, involving, as has been suggested, the production and distribution of the budget. The second general subdivision deals with the permanent security of the members of the Church. A simple illustration suffices to bring out clearly the distinction between these two major phases of our work. A member in need can be given an order on the bishops' storehouse. This is temporary relief just as our budgets are temporary. They must be renewed every year to meet the temporary needs of that current year. It may be possible, however, to find this same needy member employment, and then we have solved his problem and removed the necessity for any temporary relief, and this latter we call permanent security.
Unquestionably, with the termination of hostilities in the world, the finding of employment and thus readjusting the lives of these, our brothers and sisters, whose lives were thrown out of adjustment by the war, is a real major problem. Before this problem has been successfully met, the Relief Society will no doubt have played a most important role in its ultimate solution. I commend this problem to you as one which justifies and calls for the best there is in the Relief Society.
To meet this problem, as well as all other problems that arise in the welfare program, the Church looks to the family for the final solution. If families cannot succeed in making each of their individual members self-sustaining through the united effort of all, there is little hope that any outside agency could add much toward any permanent solution of that individual's problem. As a matter of fact, it is natural for the family to always have some members dependent upon it. That's what families are for. The father and mother are dependent upon each other. It is to be hoped we shall always have children in our homes, and so long as we have children we shall have a family rather than an individual problem.
I WANT to go one step further and say that I hope we always have parents and grandparents in our homes, and, so long as we do, their problems as well as the problems of the children, are and should be the problems of the family. Up to date, at least, in Latter-day Saint homes, we have undertaken to provide in our homes for all members of our family, be they old or young. There has never been any difference in the nation made for spiritual guidance. We depend upon the priesthood of the father as the head of the family, assisted by his sons who may hold the priesthood. We unite the family daily in family prayer, we pray unitedly for the support, maintenance, welfare, spirituality and temporal progress we undertake to take in the family circle to direct
the footsteps of our children and to make the family influence predominate in the child's life, and expect the early training to be followed throughout life. The children in the Church, as they grow to maturity, reflect in their lives the teachings of their mother and father in the family. You mothers in Israel must continue to do your part. As a people, we must never be willing to give to another the rearing of our children.
Some say it is proper for the government to raise our families, send them to school, etc., because some of us pay taxes, or for some other equally absurd reason. We do not pay taxes for the purpose of having other people raise our children or care for our elderly people. If this were the reason for taxes, we might all very well keep our money and do the job ourselves without paying a large proportion of the sums used for that purpose for professional services.
As Latter-day Saints, we believe without any question that to destroy family responsibility is to destroy the family, and with the family destroyed, the Church would be gone. No church on earth claims for the family what we claim. The restoration of the gospel in this dispensation included the appearance of Elijah before the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Kirtland Temple on the third day of April, 1836, in fulfillment of the prophecy of Malachi, "to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse."
We can hardly say that our hearts often go to the cradles of our children or that our children's hearts have been turned toward us, if we are in the frame of mind which permits us to share in any way, shape, or form the responsibility of parenthood with the world or any of its agencies, and if this be true it follows as a necessary corollary that our children cannot prepare themselves for full fellowship in the Church or magnify their offices and callings in the priesthood if they shirk their responsibility toward their parents, or share it in ever so small a way with the world.
May I ask: Can we love our mothers and leave the determination of their needs to laws or strangers, and the provision of these needs to the unearthliness and insecurities of the world? A few years ago, no one of us would have thought in this Church of favoring a law which relieved the mothers of support of the children. However, there are bills in Congress today, in the Congress of the United States, that look toward giving the mothers assistance for their children, without any relationship to need. In other words, any mother, if these laws were passed, as they have been passed in other countries, would be assisted by the government. The government does not recognize the father as the head of the family for obvious reasons. Dealing with the mother, the question of legitimacy or illegitimacy of the children involved need not be questioned. Need we say more?
The question might be put rather bluntly and boldly in these words: Do we as a people so far worship money that we are willing to the slightest degree to relinquish parental control of our children for gold?
In projecting the ever-expanding welfare program of the Church, we call upon the Relief Society as an organization and all of its members individually in faith and humility to answer these questions directly, and to be a direct influence in our own families for maintaining family unity, family integrity, family faith, and family loyalty to the ways of the Lord.
The Relief Society, like all other organizations in the Church, is confronted with the necessity of converting our saints to the simple fundamental principles of life and of truth everlasting, and to avoid the conflicting philosophies and theories of men in the world. To accomplish this purpose is to accomplish the purposes of the welfare program. We must gather Israel to the standards of our Lord.
Need we say that to be married for time and eternity in the house of the Lord by the priesthood is but the first step in the eternal scheme of family progression? The first step becomes as naught if we fail to continue to go forward in righteousness, maintaining the sacred relationship of family life and assuming all the responsibilities incident thereto throughout life, as we hope to do throughout eternity.
The Relief Society can and will, I am sure, expand its service so far as necessary to keep our brethren and sisters in the fold and to give to the priesthood of the Church the kind of an example and the encouragement through love and affection which will induce them to fully magnify their position in the family and in the Church; and that this may be our happy lot, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Relief Society Leadership President Amy Brown Lyman THE type of leadership which the Relief Society wishes to develop is the type which Jesus exemplified when he said, "I am among you as one that serveth" (Luke 22:27). In this same verse he says that it is greater to serve than to be served.
The service to which he dedicated his life was a service of unselfishness, self-sacrifice, and helpfulness. It was divinely inspired, was born of brotherly love, and safeguarded by the conception he held of the sacredness of the human personality. It was intelligent service resulting from keen observation and long years of study and preparation, and most important of all, from divine guidance.
It is assumed that as a boy Jesus lived a normal, peaceful, protected life in a humble house where he was trained to labor and work and to live in the fear of the Lord. It is evident that in he grew up he became an industrious worker, a careful observer, and a profound student, that he gained much knowledge by his own effort, and through prayer and devotion to our Heavenly Father he was blessed with great wisdom. Even at the age of twelve in his interview in the temple, he astonished the learned doctors with his unusual knowledge and attainments.
What a glorious example and pattern of work, observation, and inspiration for leaders and teachers was his! He was perhaps the greatest of all
leaders and teachers, our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
The success of any enterprise depends largely upon its leaders. It is to them that people look for guidance, encouragement and inspiration.
Relief Society, with its many fields of activity, requires many workers and as the years go by and new avenues of service appear, new and additional workers, with new and additional preparation and experience, will be needed. Leaders are needed for executive work and for class teaching; for choral work and dramatics; for art-needlework and plain sewing; for homemaking and household management; for training for parenthood and family life; and for social welfare work. And with frequent changes in executive officers, practically all the members are called sooner or later to lead out in some activity and thus assume some responsibility.
One of the first requisites of Relief society leaders is to live the gospel. They should aim to be living examples of what they advocate and teach, being "doers of the word, and not hearers only" (James 1:22). They should conform to all the standards and requirements set for Latter-day Saints and be true to the ideals of the Church and of the gospel. They should honor and respect the priesthood and should hearken to any instructions the priesthood offers. They should practice what they preach and preach what they practice. They should cultivate spirituality and thus increase and strengthen their own testimonies and the testimonies of those whom they lead. Relief Society leaders should also seek to enhance their general scholarship and learning which will increase their ability and bear fruit in their efforts to lead and influence others. They should have some familiarity with the standard works of the Church. They should know something about the history and the background of the Church and its leaders. They should be familiar with the history, background, activities, and accomplishments of the Relief Society, and of the women who have directed its work. It is sometimes mistakenly claimed that only those who are born leaders or are born with an aptitude for leadership and teaching can succeed as leaders and teachers. Experience in Relief Society over a period of many years has demonstrated that this is not a correct conclusion and that leadership can be developed. The Society has seen women grow and develop as they have accepted calls to serve, and have sought the spirit of the Lord to guide them. It has seen women changed, yes, almost transformed through Relief Society service. Many at first too timid to take any part, have, through study and prayerful effort and practice, become resourceful, successful officers and class teachers, able conversationalists, and strong, well-poised individuals. They have learned much about how to meet life successfully, how to adjust to their environment, and how to get along and live and work with others. They have learned to be patient, tolerant, sympathetic, and understanding, and their love for humanity, which is one of the most important elements in leadership, as it is in life itself (brotherly love, if you please), has increased with the years of their service. In closing, I should like to salute all the leaders of Relief Society throughout the whole Church, all the leaders, past and present, who for one hundred years have guided successfully the destinies of this great and mighty organization. May the Lord continue to bless us all is my earnest prayer. Relief Society Membership President Louise Y. Robison IN a Relief Society meeting last season, the class leader had followed the outline for our work in the literature of the New Testament so inspirationally that, for the hour, we lived with the Savior and his disciples. It had taken us to a higher plane, and we had the desire in our hearts to live nearer to our Father in heaven. At the close of this meeting, one of the members came to the class leader and said, "I would love to have time to study the gospel as you have done, but it seems that home duties call me away from study." The understanding class leader said, "Yes, I know; I have taken care of my house all of my life, but I have never been told, nor do I believe, that my Heavenly Father gave me this precious earth life solely to do these things. Couldn't you try to adjust your time so that some of it could be used for the eternal principles? I have been taught through the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith that we are saved no faster than we gain knowledge, and that a person cannot successfully serve our Heavenly Father without the knowledge of his laws."
Of course, the element of time is a consideration, but each woman has twenty-four hours of time given her each day to use as she desires, in her own way. Now, most of us, in buying our bread and butter for our families, go to the place where we have confidence in the goods, though the food may last only until tomorrow. But when we go to a place where we find good thoughts, where we learn ideals that we can take home to our children, it is of great importance! The home is the laboratory of the souls of those entrusted to our care, and a good idea, a good book, a good thought, or a prayer is of great importance, as we were told today by Brother Driggs, in this home that produces high ideals.
But there are so many interests, and we naturally look around and think, which is the most important to give for our time. And the question arises, How about Relief Society? What does it offer its members?
First, Relief Society offers elevating, beautiful friendships. The best friendships of my life have been formed through the Society, and
Our meetings are called together, and the first thing is to remember Him in song?which brings a sweet worshipful peace. Then the prayer is offered, a humble prayer offered by one of our humble sisters, but asking for that precious gift, the gift that God will send us?his spirit, which is light and truth.
This is followed then, and is the setting for the theology lesson which teaches us the will of our Father in heaven and his laws that will prepare us for his kingdom. Then, in testimony meeting, we have the opportunity of telling each other of the kindness of our Heavenly Father to us and of the beautiful principles of the gospel, and just as sure as we come in contact with his spirit, we take it to our homes. It is this spirit that builds up the faith of our children.
The second Tuesday of our Relief Society is more of a social day. We meet more informally, we learn to take care of our homes and our children, and we give service to others in our Welfare Plan, that we with better part may ask for God's blessing at the close of day.
Then, the study of the literature of the New Testament, that wonderful part of the Bible that inspires us with higher thoughts; and the innumerable poems and stories and songs, inspired by these truths, raise the standard of culture in our homes.
The fourth study is a practical study of character development, of honesty and morality and truth. Where these are taught in the home, supplemented by the faith that has been developed, children are fortified to meet life when they cross the bridge from the home to the work of the world. Nor are we left alone. Our Father in Heaven is as much interested ln our children?more so, even, than we, and he has said to us: *'Be thou humble; and the Lord Thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy prayers" (Doc. And Gov. 112:10). Is there any promise greater for us to receive in return for the time spent properly? Active membership in Relief Society makes this promise secure through the beautiful lessons provided for us through the inspired teacher or class leader, and through a prayerful study of the principles of the gospel of Jesus Ghrist. Membership in Relief Society is offered to all women who seek to live the better life. I leave my prayer and my blessing for these fine women, the Presidency of this organization and the General Board, who, through the priesthood of the living God, have been given the torch to light, to lead us into perfection, to make our homes clean and pure, that there will be no evil come in. I pray that the stake presidents may receive this light and carry it to the wards, and, most important, that the ward presidents may receive this light, and that they may have the blessing in giving and interpreting it to the individual members, that we will all, when we leave here, turn to our Father in heaven, that these precious souls that he has entrusted to our care, our children, may be pure and clean and sweet. May this be our lot, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Ghrist. Amen.