Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford WE welcome you all and we are grateful for your presence, your safe journey, your devotion to the work that makes you put forth the effort to be here, for the sacrifices of your families. I am sure that our hearts are filled to overflowing today in gratitude to our Heavenly Father for the privilege of this conference. We are deeply grateful for the cessation of hostilities that has made this conference possible. For four long years we have been bowed down by the strains, anxieties, and sorrows of war. Even though we know that many of the sorrows and problems of war are still with us, we acknowledge the goodness of the Lord at this time. Our last general Relief Society conference was held in October 1941, and we were enthusiastically looking forward to the observance of our Relief Society centennial in connection with the coming April conference. Interest and enthusiasm were running high, only to be cut short by war. Relief Society Activities, 1941-1944 At the close of 1941 we had an enrollment of 115,000. Then the advent of the war and the accompanying employment of women, together with the many war interests of women, affected in some measure our enrollment. Under these conditions we feel our membership has held up remarkably well. We have today an enrollment of over 102,000. Average attendance has suffered somewhat more than enrollment. The average attendance for the three-year war period, December 1941 to December 1944, is 30.41 per cent of the enrolled membership. The number of visits to homes by visiting teachers is perhaps the most discouraging of all aspects of our work. Figures show a steady decline through the war years, with 126,900 fewer visits being made last year than in 1941. Thehas given us pronounced concern during the war years. Government restrictions on paper, increased printing and engraving costs, labor problems, both at the printing offices and in our own department, have caused us many troubled hours. Moreover, the Magazine has never seemed of greater importance to us, being the major medium through which the General Board has been able to reach local officers and the