Wartime Activities of Our European Relief Society Counselor Gertrude R. Garff HOW wonderful it is to meet in Relief Society general conference again! How privileged we are to be able to assemble and listen to the counsel of the President of our Church. I think we have never appreciated this privilege as we do now because we were not granted the opportunity of gathering in conferences during the war years. We rejoice that this opportunity has been restored to us. Today in this great gathering are Relief Society women from most of the stakes of Zion, and most of the missions of the Church are represented by the presence of Relief Society mission presidents or Relief Society mission presidents who have only recently been released. However, there is a great group of loyal, faithful Relief Society women who have no representation here today, with but one exception, and who, I know, are with us in spirit if not in the flesh. They are our European Relief Society sisters. My sisters, we in the United States have been in constant communication with the Church authorities. Many of us could listen to the conference proceedings over the radio. Also, we were visited quarterly at stake conferences by Church authorities, and at any time we could write in to headquarters and get any counsel and help that was needed. Many of our missions have been handicapped by the lack of missionaries, but they did have mission presidents and Relief Society presidents sent from headquarters to preside over and lead the work there, and were in communication with the Church most of the time. In spite of these handicaps, they accomplished a wonderful work in both war and regular Relief Society activities. Some even started welfare plans and had singular success with these ventures. Today, I wish to pay tribute to our sisters in Europe. These women who have carried on Relief Society work under handicaps that would be discouraging even with missionaries in their midst. Since the fall of 1939, when the European saints sang "God Be With You Till We Meet Again," while waving goodbye to the missionaries on board ships sailing to America, our European brothers and sisters (with the exception of the British who have had good communication with Church headquarters) have had very little direct communication with Church authorities and the leadership was placed in the hands of local brethren. They have suffered tribulation beyond our comprehension. The Church and auxiliaries through Brother Thomas E. McKay, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, have made every effort to get lessons and communications to these good people. Barring accident to letters and lessons enroute ?Norway and Denmark were reached through Sweden; Germany, France, Belgium, Czechoslovakia and the Netherlands were reached through Switzerland; and conversely, any word we received reached us by the same route. Occasionally, we would get and send Red Cross messages; but they took six to eight months to get to their destination, and were only a few words long. However, we were thankful for the information received, though scarce, and, now, since the cessation of hostilities, many letters bearing foreign postmarks have arrived and the stories they tell are of great interest to us. So that these sisters may have a part in our conference today, I am going to tell you of some of their activities. Can you imagine our wards with none of the brethren present to conduct the meetings?to administer the sacrament? Quite generally throughout the European mission, and especially in Norway, Germany, and Switzerland, the men belonging to the Church were in service or had gone underground. The Relief Society women were called to hold the people together, to conduct all the meetings. They even had singing practice and in some places the Singing Mothers' groups were very active. The Relief Society visiting teachers were given added responsibility as there were no men to do ward teaching. Where it was possible and there were older men holding the priesthood, they would visit the branches periodically and ad-minster the sacrament. At all other times it was the Relief Society women who carried the full responsibility of keeping the Church membership together. With the beginning of the war the Relief Society plunged into war work along with their regular programs. In Britain, under the direction of Sister Anastasiou who is here with us today, the Relief Society, among other things, gathered clothing for refugee organizations and received a gracious letter of thanks from the council in charge of distributing this clothing. ONE of the most touching incidents to come to us from Europe is the story of Sister Zippro, the Netherlands Relief Society president. She was willing to face alone the dangers of an invading army in order that members of the Church might receive assistance from the Relief Society. After hostilities between the two armies ceased, this dear sister, knowing of the terrible destruction of Rotterdam, concluded to ride her bicycle (the only means of travel because train travel, etc., was thoroughly disrupted) sixty miles from Amsterdam to Rotterdam. She found many of the families living with other members, as they had lost all earthly belongings when their homes had been completely destroyed by bombs. She immediately ascertained their needs and started to raise funds from among the other members to help those most affected by the invasion. GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Her bravery and devotion to the ideals of Relief Society under such trying and perilous circumstances are worthy of our highest praise. Nor did our Relief Society sisters confine their benevolent work to their own missions, but gave generously of their resources to those of another country. The Oslo Branch Relief Society gave a dinner for the; old people of the branch and the food was furnished by the Danish Relief Society, otherwise no festival could have been held as food was almost as scarce in Norway as anywhere in Europe. Both the Swedish and Danish missions obtained food permits at regular intervals and sent food into Norway to be distributed among the Norwegian saints. It is amazing to note that in such a terrible period of our world's history, new Relief Societies were being organized. I want to read an excerpt from a letter to Brother McKay from Elder Fritz Johanssen, the Swedish Mission President: Between August 7 and 22, together with District President Claus A. Person and Sister Astrid Johanssen of the mission Relief Society board, I made a journey to Finland. The little Society was organized at my first visit shortly after the winter war 1939-40 to a regular branch. This time we had the great pleasure of baptizing three persons. This time I was inspired to undertake the Finland journey and at the same time write an additional part of its gospel history as far as Finland is concerned, namely, that the first female Relief Society was organized there. Time and again we felt as when the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith 747 organized the first Relief Society in the world. All of the letters I have read coming from Europe tell of the terrific need for clothing. Clothing is, of course, rationed, but even those with money cannot find the necessary items to buy. Our members in Denmark have gone stockingless for a year at a time and shoes are never seen in the shops. As is generally the case, the children are suffering the most. Now permission has been granted to send eleven-pound packages into all the missions except Germany and Czechoslovakia; and I am happy to report that packages are being sent by our Central Welfare Storehouse to the branch and Relief Society presidents for distribution to the needy members, which include nearly all since money is not involved. There just aren't any clothes to buy of either good or bad quality. My dear sisters, what inspired these women to perform these unselfish and thoughtful deeds? It was their membership in Relief Society, their knowledge of the purpose and ideals of Relief Society, that gave them the courage to undertake those difficult tasks. It was the Relief Society organization that empowered those women and made their efforts to gather funds and clothing and to send food to members in another country effective. Without this organization, they could not have been prepared to take over the responsibility of handling the work of the branches when they were left with no priesthood to officiate. Their letters thank us for our prayers in their behalf.Let us give thanks for these faithful sisters and brothers for their trials have indeed been greater than ours. In closing, I wish to bear my testimony. I am thankful for the gospel, for the meaning it gives to my life. I am thankful for the opportunity of serving the Lord and I feel to express with Moroni of old: And awake, and arise from the dust, O Jerusalem; yea, and put on thy beautiful garments, O daughter of Zion; and strengthen thy stakes and enlarge thy borders forever, that thou mayest no more be confounded, that the covenants of the Eternal Father which he hath made unto thee, O house of Israel, may be fulfilled (Moroni 10:31),