116th Semi-annual Church Conference  COLORFUL and impressive was the scene in Salt Lake City on the morning of October 5, 1945, the opening day of the 116th semi-annual conference of the Church. All roads appeared to lead to Temple Square as thousands of Latter-day Saints, conference bound, hearts rejoicing in the blessing of our Heavenly Father, eagerly anticipated words which would soon come from inspired Church leaders to guide, comfort, and sustain them. Four weary, anxious war years had passed since the general Church membership had met in the great Tabernacle in conference session, years in which souls had been tried and many had been called upon to mourn. The resumption of conference for the general Church membership, made possible through the cessation of hostilities, was indeed a comfort to the souls of Latter-day Saints, and a joy to their hearts. This conference, too, was an eventful occasion for a most important and impressive ceremony, one participated in by the priesthood and general membership but rarely a ceremony referred to in Church history as a Priesthood Solemn Assembly. Page 758 This ceremony is the custom when voting for a new president of the Church for the first time in general conference, and has been the practice of the Church since President John Taylor was sustained in conference general conference. Voting is by quorums, in order, beginning with the First Presidency and continuing down through the Aaronic Priesthood. Voting by the priesthood is followed by that of the remaining Church membership. In voting, the right hand is raised to the square to witness to the Lord that one sustains the officer for whom he is voting. The Solemn Assembly, presided over by President George Albert Smith and directed by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. At the opening session of the conference October 5, voted to sustain President George Albert Smith as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. President Smith came to this position on May 21, 1945, following the death of President Heber J. Grant. The humility of soul, accompanied by the power that comes with a deep and abiding testimony of the gospel, confirmed in the minds of the thousands who heard the voice of President Smith as he addressed the Church membership following the voting, the belief that they had indeed sustained one who was a prophet, seer, and revelator divinely appointed and endowed with divine authority to lead the Church in this great and perilous day. The Church membership also EDITORIAL 759 sustained President George F. Richards as president of the Council of the Twelve, and Elder Matthew Cowley as a new member of the Council of the Twelve. Strong and effective, and a terse reminder to the saints of the covenants they had made that day in voting were the words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. When he said: Today I have given witness to President Smith, to you and to the Lord that I will sustain him as prophet, seer and revelator and president of the Church. Each of us has made a life covenant. God gives to each of us the strength and the power to be loyal; to give up fault finding; to follow the command of the Lord; to follow those whom we have ourselves sustained. Without leadership the Church cannot grow. Throughout all of the sessions of the conference, speakers paid high tribute to President Smith. With unusual clarity and conviction they bore testimony, expounded the doctrines and interpreted the principles of the gospel, and bade Church members to keep the commandments of the Lord. Pronounced emphasis was given the missionary program of the Church and the intention to expand it in the immediate future?to call many men and women into missionary service, was made clear. The music of the conference seemed unusually beautiful. Relief Society was proud that a combined chorus of Relief Society Singing Mothers from the stakes of the Salt Lake Region provided the music for the first two sessions. The desires of the thousands of Latter-day Saints who had so eagerly awaited this conference for the guidance and spiritual succor it might bring them were fully realized. This 116th semi-annual conference will go down in Church history as a great and blessed occasion. BSS.