[Vol7 | March 1920 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial The Discipline of Obedience]
the  situation  and  not  be  crushed  by  it.     Get  all  the  pure  gold

DISCIPLINE   OF  OBEDIENCE  165 
you  can  out  of  the  crushing  process,  and  don't  follow  the  ex- 
ample of  some  highly  gifted  but  undisciplined  men  and  women 
who,  when  crossed  in  their  will,  sink  into  insignificance  or  fol- 
low all  kinds  of  will-o'-the-wisp  trails  where  discipline  is  un- 
known and  authority  is  not.  Don't  be  a  quitter.  Harness 
your  will,  drive  it  along  the  disciplined  road  of  righteous  law 
and  divine  authority. 
THE  EDELWEIS. 
(A  Sonnet.) 
O.  F.  Ursenbach. 
In  Alpine  heights,  near  the  eternal  snow, 
I  plucked  an  edelweis,  long  years  ago ; 
The  tiny  flower  of  moss-like,  grayish  hue, 
As  time  rolled  on,  kept  ever  bright  and  new ; 
Until  today,  its  petals,  full  and  rare. 
Seem  just  as  fresh  as  when  I  plucked  it  there. 
In  ecstrasy,  I  pause  and  wonder  still ; 
This  great  insignia  of  the  Master's  will ; 
How  it  remains  as  God  the  blossom  made. 
As  through  the  fleeting  years,  it  does  not  fade. 
He  who,  in  life's  late  day,  is  blanched  with  age. 
Allows  his  mental  energy  to  fade, 
Could  well  afTord,  though  near  the  sun-set  hour. 
To  profit  by  this  little  Alpine  flower. 
A  PRAYER. 
Martha  B.  Cooley. 
O,  Father,  kind,  make  me  more  humble 
More  worthy  thy  blessing  and  love ; 
That  I  may  e'er  bask  in  the  sunshine 
Of  thy  wond'rous  glory  above. 
Thou  knowest  my  heart  and  my  weakness. 
The  struggle  that  ever  is  mine. 
As  I  strive  to  rise  above  error, 
With  perfection  my  goal,  my  shrine  : 
Give  me  strength  and  wisdom  so  needed. 
Increased  faith  and  charity,  too. 
With  patience  and  love  in  abundance ; 
Keep  my  soul  ever  faithful  and  true : 
Yes,  true  to  my  friends  and  my  dear  ones, 
And  true  to  myself  and  my  God; 
My  motto  e'er  onward  and  upward. 
My  hand  firmly  grasping  thy  rokd.
