[Vol7 | March 1920 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]
GUIDE  LESSONS  123 
III.  Supplementary  Feeding. 
Even  with  babies  well  fed  on  breast  milk  most  experts 
advocate  some  additional  feeding  as  early  as  the  9th 
month,  some  earlier.  This  will  pave  the  way  for  the  weaning 
of  the  child  in  its  12th  month,  the  most  approved  time. 
When  the  child's  teeth  begin  to  appear,  it  is  an  indication  that 
the  little  one  is  getting  ready  to  eat  solid  foods,  though  at 
first  a  piece  of  dry  toast  or  sweibach  is  sufficient.  In  the 
8th  month  a  little  strained  cereal  may  be  given ;  the  bot- 
tle-fed baby  may  have  cereal  water  in  his  bottle  as  early  as 
the  4th  month.  At  nine  months  a  teaspoonful  of  egg  yolk 
may  be  added  to  the  midday  bottle,  or  a  small  portion  of  cod- 
dled egg  yolk  may  be  given  to  the  breast-fed  child.  Those 
who  advocate  giving  meat  to  children  suggest  a  teaspoonful 
of  beef  juice  at  this  time,  but  unless  the  baby  is  anaemic  this 
might  easily  be  left  until  later.  About  the  9th  or  10th  month, 
meat  broths,  from  which  the  fat  has  been  removed,  may  be 
given.  As  early  as  the  6th  month  orange  juice  and  strained 
apple  sauce  are  advocated  by  many;  in  cases  of  constipation 
orange  juice  is  sometimes  given  as  early  as  the  4th  month, 
but  usually  not  more  than  a  teaspoonful,  diluted  with  boiled 
water,  is  given  every  other  day.  If  the  foods  mentioned 
above  are  gradually  and  carefully  added  to  the  child's  diet, 
and  he  is  taught  to  eat  from  a  spoon  and  drink  from  a  cup, 
weaning  time,  whether  the  baby  is  breast  fed  or  bottle  fed, 
is  usually  not  a  very  serious  time,  because  the  child  will  often 
wean  himself,  as  his  ability  to  masticate  and  digest  other  foods 
grows. 
IV.  Feeding  the  Older  Child. 
In  the  second  year  of  the  child's  life,  and  indeed  through- 
out the  period  of  childhood,  milk  continues  to  be  the  founda- 
tion of  the  diet ;  one  quart  a  day  is  considered  the  right 
amount.  Stale  bread  and  toast  are  given  for  training  in  chew- 
ing; eggs,  beaten  up  in  milk,  or  coddled,  are  fed,  both  for  their 
mineral  salts  and  their  valuable  building  material,  though  the 
feeding  of  a  whole  egg  at  one  time  is  not  advocated  before 
the  third  year.  Cereals  give  bulk  to  the  diet,  and  yield 
energy,  and  at  the  end  of  the  second  year  may  be  given  with- 
out straining.  Fruit  juices  increase  in  variety,  gradually  com- 
ing to  include  not  only  orange  and  apple,  but  prune,  pear, 
peach,  pineapple,  etc.  Early  in  the  second  year  easily  di- 
gested vegetables  such  as  spinach,  and  asparagus  tips  are  fed 
after  having  been  thoroughly  cooked  and  pressed  through  a 
strainer.  Gradually  the  vegetable  list  expands  so  as  to  include 
string  beans,  peas,  beets,  carrots,  and  at  the  end  of  the  second 
year,  baked  potato.    Desserts  must  remain  simple  all  through