E Breaking Dishes By Caroline ITH all the care of Michael Angelo or a Raphael putting the finishing touches to his work of art, but with a spirit as low and debased, in proportion to my maturity, as theirs must have been exalted, I placed the last broken fragment of a very much prized china butter dish into its niche and placed it in exactly the most likely spot for it to be accidentally bumped when the cupboard door was next opened. It was a base intrigue?I wanted someone to suffer the tongue lashing and worse still, to be responsible for the very real heart wound which the discovery of that broken dish would occasion my mother. I was responsible for it, of course. That is it-was my accident. In putting away the dinner dishes, the doing of which was to have been a very happy surprise for my mother and sisters upon their return from meeting, I had pushed it from the shelf and broken it into half a dozen pieces. My first impulse was to gather it up and, presenting the pieces, accept my doom. But I was alone?that was the determining factor?I might not be found out, And so I had pieced it together and contrived to place it so that someone?whomever Fate picked?might by merely opening the cupboard doors let it fall to pieces like the Deacon's Wonderful One Hoss Shay. This particular butter dish was one of the few remaining parts of a very lovely china set which my father had bought for my mother years and years before, dating back almost to their wedding day. It was very white and very thin and very clear and had tiny pink rose-buds in beautiful decorative sprays on it. There had been a tragic scene at the breaking of each piece of the large set of dishes, in not a few of which Eyring Miner tragedies, Thad played the prominent role. The outcome of the incident you * may easily have guessed. The cupboard was opened by someone else, but so cautiously that when the six pieces of butter dish clattered to the floor it was wholly unexplainable by that opening, and since I was the only child at home I was apprehended, tried, convicted, and punished in the manner in which I had anticipated with the result that I resolved more firmly than ever to learn to do a better job of covering up my accident another time. Breaking dishes has a special horor for me to this very day. I never handle a very valuable dish but I have the feeling that as surely as I live I am going to drop it. I don't always do so but I do it often enough to make it an expensive and a very uncomfortable complex; one that I hope to avoid in my children. A breakable dish of any kind was a luxury to be prized and protected, and its breakage to be lamentably mourned by my mother who lived in very straitened circumstances in pioneer communities during her childhood. It was very difficult for mother to realize that breaking dishes were accidents of the purest kind and not wilfully destructive deeds, although she later came to realize it. We children had to use and wash the breakable dishes so the scenes over broken dishes in our home were quite frequent. Every time a dish is broken in my house today, I say to myself, "It was an accident; childish and careless, no doubt, but an accident. One of the accidents I used to have so frequently as a child and I won't shout at the offender nor lament the breakage of the dish aloud for fear he will want to piece it together in my absence and so deceive me to spare a scene. A broken dish or broken confidence! I will take the first."