[Vol46 | November 1959 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V46_11_00_BOARD]
All the color covers have been nice and have added distinction to the Magazine, but for balance of design, sharpness of detail, and exactness of color, the picure on the April 1959 issue is one of the most perfect and beautiful it has been my pleasure to see in any magazine. You are also to be congratulated on the fine material you are publishing. Another very important thing is the convenient and practical size of the Magazine. The size makes it easier to take with you to read in spare time or to use as a reference. Pictures and illustrations look just as nice in The Relief Society Magazine as they do in larger magazines, and those that are worth using are worth keeping in the volume for future reference. If people want larger pictures for visual aids they can be printed separately. —Thomas G. Truitt Salt Lake City, Utah May I say thanks for such a wonderful Magazine. It is a source of helpful ideas and inspiration that give a deeper understanding of the beauties and values of simple, everyday living. My subscription to the Magazine is a gift from two wonderful missionaries, Brother and_ Sister Harry E. Anderson, who labored in Louisville, Mississippi, in 1958 and 1959. The spirit of their mission is being kept alive through the visits of The Relief Society Magazine, since the missionarics have been released. —Eva Arrington Louisville, Mississippi Thanks for The Relief Society Magazine. I like Beatrice Rordame Parsons' serial "The Silver Leash" (concluded in August 1959). Mrs. Parsons is as proficient in her art as one of her ancestors whom I knew many years ago, was in his. Renie H. Littlewood's poem "Enfolding Quietude" (August frontispiece) is a beautiful creation. It fairly exudes its theme, and its wording is so pertinent. It is pure rhythmic diction with much tone color. —Grace Ingles Frost Provo, Utah
Editor c - - - = = Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - -.7 - - - - - - - Belle S. Spatford