[Vol46 | November 1959 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: LaRue | Author: Backman]
LaRue A Rosell Appointed to the General Board of Reliof Society Edith P. Backman Member, General Board of Relief Society ARUE H. Rosell was appointed to the General Board of Relief Socicty, September 2, 1959. To know Sister Rosell is to love her. Her winning smile, charming personality, sincerity, humility, and friendliness are but a few of her outstanding attributes. She is a native of Salt Lake, a daughter of Nephi J. And Laura Free Hansen. Her mother was active in Relicf Society work. Her father was charitable, civic-minded, — always working for the welfare of the community, and was prominent in the building up of Sugar House. He helped lay out tracts of land to develop that section of the city. He was called "Mayor of Sugar House" and a "Hansen Day" celebration was held in his honor. After graduating from the University of Utah, LaRue married Sidney J. Nebeker in 1927. They lived on a ranch near Bear Lake for fifteen years. 'They had four children: Sidney J., who received his Master's Degree from Harvard; Conrad, who is studying medicine at the University of Pennsylvania; Mrs. Richard K. (Mary Janet) Winters, mother of three children; and David who is a student at the University of Utah. Sister Rosell became a widow in 1942. She and her children then lived for three years in Logan with the family of her brother-in-law, President E. G. Peterson, on College Hill. In 1946 she moved to the Federal Heights Ward in Salt Lake City, where she has mainLARUE H. ROSELL tained a beautiful, spiritual home for her children. She has served in both ward and stake positions in Relief Society, Primary, Sunday School, and has been President of Emigration M. I. A. Stake Board and President of her own ward M. I. A. In 1954 she was married to Carl H. Rosell, a prominent business man whose activities in the Church have been outstanding. When Sister Rosell received her call to the General Board, she and her husband had just completed two years service as stake missionaries. Her many experiences with the youth of the Church, her exceptional executive ability, humility, and sincere testimony will contribute added strength to the General Board.