[Vol46 | November 1959 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Jennie | Author: Robinson]
Jennie Randall Scott Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Christine H. Robinson Member, General Board of Relief Society I asinite Randall Scott was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 2, 1959. She comes to her new position with a rich background of service, knowledge and _ ability. One of Sister Scott's favorite quotations is found in Joshua 1:9, where it is written: "Be strong, and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed: for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest." Born and reared in a home of devoted Latter-day Saints who gave a lifetime of service to the Church, Sister Scott began her Church activities as a young girl of fourteen. At the age of nineteen she was sclected as a member of the Ogden Stake Sunday School board. She was called as a missionary to the Western States Mission. It was here that she met her future husband George L. Scott. They were married in the Salt Lake Temple. Soon after their marriage, Brother and Sister Scott moved to the West Coast. Later they moved to Portland, Oregon, where Brother Scott served as President of the Portland Stake for over fifteen years. During this time Sister Scott worked cheerfully by his side. Besides helping and encouraging her husband in his work, she occupied many positions of responsibility and trust in the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Association, and in the Relief Society. As a Relief Society worker Sister Scott was an outstanding visiting Page /28 JENNIE R. SCOTT teacher. She was an inspirational teacher of theology for fifteen years, president of a ward Relief Society, and president of Portland Stake Relief Society from December 1954 to February 1959 when she and her husband moved to Bountiful, Utah. Brother and Sister Scott are the parents of three children, all of whom are college graduates, and all of whom were married in the temple. They have presented the Scotts with six lovely grandchildren. As counseled by Joshua, Sister Jennie Randall Scott is strong, courageous, humble, but undismayed in her new assignment. With her firm faith, her strong testimony of the gospel, and her great capacity and willingness to work, surely the Lord will be with her whithersoever she goeth.