[Vol23 | December 1936 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business]
Work and Business (For February)
CONVENIENT KITCHEN AND HOUSE LIGHTING
MANY homes have been made to look like new with only a few small changes. You may get that "new house thrill" by creating new convenience and beauty. Start with the vital working parts of which the kitchen is the most important. Ugly and inharmonious surroundings breed discord and inefficiency and tire one's nerves. Every kitchen should radiate cheerfulness. Unsightly worn patterns in the linoleum can play havoc with the loveliest room, but old linoleum matched and patched and the whole floor treated with paint and varnish or waxed can lay the foundation for an interesting room. Cream and green linoleum, bordered with black, is a good combination. Paint is the most practical and the cheapest wall treatment, although the so called "washable papers" are preferred by some. If the room has a sunny exposure, use the cool colors, as green, blue; if on shady side of house use the warm colors, yellow, orange or red. Cream painted walls help to diffuse the light.
Everything that makes the modern kitchen beautiful should make it equally easy to keep clean and convenient to use. No longer need it be a haphazard assorted assemblage of fixtures. Equipment resistant to wear by cracking or chipping, that requires minimum time and effort in caring for it, step-saving devices, plenty of drawers, shelves and storage space should all be considered in the plan. Stainless steel-top tables, sinks, work surfaces at convenient heights, quick-heating electric coils to speed cooking, power mixers, electric dishwashers and many other gadgets serve to make kitchen work easier.
Studies and experiments of the time which the average woman spends in preparing meals and washing dishes show that even though she doesn't do a complete cooking job, she spends at least two hours per day in her kitchen. It is the use of modern appliances which makes possible this great increase in efficiency and saving of time. The electric range and electric refrigerator make it possible to do a very much larger volume of cooking with ease than is possible with old-fashioned kitchen equipment. It is true that a kitchen thus equipped represents a large investment in appliances, but it is an investment that pays dividends. If it pays to use power and machinery to bake bread in a bakery, it pays to use them to bake bread at home.
The grouping of equipment into the work centers to save waste motion and keep different jobs moving along in smooth sequence is important. This depends, as does the size of the kitchen, upon the number in family and kinds of work to be done. Built-in equipment without legs to clean around and floors that are smooth and sanitary are big conveniences. Many sections or parts of equipment may be obtained, then put together as needed, like the old-fashioned bookcases. The stove, refrigerator, sink, cupboards, will fit together to form one working unit. Shelves are adjustable and both drawers and doors are interchangeable. Do not follow the same casual method in buying equipment for kitchen as in other rooms. It is a workshop and scientific manufacturers have seen to it that there is no excuse for having it otherwise. If it is now cumbersome and inconvenient, a comparatively modest sum invested can bring about great improvement.
A great deal of time and energy may be expended in a most convenient kitchen if utensils used require much care. Cleaning and scouring become an important factor in the daily routine, but with proper methods no extra time or work should be necessary. Care begins with cooking. Avoid spilling food on the outside or burning on the inside of utensils or stove. A good sudsy wash soon after utensils are used, with thorough rinsing and drying will mean less scouring and stain removing. Good scouring soaps and powders that don't scratch are on the market and are quick and effective for stained, burned utensils. Aluminum is popular, as it never rusts, doesn't chip or break, is a good conductor of heat and light in weight. When darkened by alkali, it may be cleaned by boiling water and vinegar or acid fruit. Enamelware in white or bright colors is decorative, good conductor of heat and the smooth glaze is resistant to acids and it seldom stains, but chips with too rough usage. Stainless steel is an attractive and practical metal. It is more expensive than other metal but gives years of service without becoming shabby and dented. Fewer good utensils is far better than many gadgets that require more care and storage than they give service.
Good lighting is a requisite for the convenient kitchen. Plenty of light doesn't mean glare. Spotty lights irritate, give headaches and react on nerves. We need two kinds of light ?general and special. Every room needs general illumination, ample in quantity and of proper quality, not necessarily light enough in every corner for close work but enough for the ordinary and usual routine of the home. This may be achieved in various ways?direct or indirect. By means of ceiling or wall fixtures the light should be diffused so there are no dark spots. Special light is needed for special places and special tasks which is brighter at a given place than general light. The work-centers in the kitchen, as table, sink, stove, the laundry tubs, the stairs, the basement, the attic, the reading and sewing centers, need this special lighting. Light on both sides of the dressing table mirror or bath room are best and should be of right height to light whole face.
With size to meet family needs and standards, with equipment placed to eliminate waste of time and energy, with work-centers the proper height for worker, with few good and easily cared for utensils, with bright cheery colors in wall, floors or curtains, with lights properly placed and adjusted to relieve strain, the kitchen becomes most restful though the most active room in the home. New equipment and expense are not always necessary to achieve this. Rearrangement and elimination will work wonders for convenience.
Handicrafts For Every Woman, pp. 50-58.
Literature (For Third Week in February)
Lesson V ABRAHAM LINCOLN
WE pass from the childhood to the youth of Abraham Lincoln. When Abe reached seventeen he was six feet. These were the years he was handling the ax. "The inside of his hands took on callous thick as leather." He cleared openings in the timber, cut logs and split firewood. On winter mornings he wiped the frost from the ax-handle, then followed blow after blow on the big tree, which felled he would use for a seat while he ate his dinner of corn bread and fried salt pork. He had strong shoulder muscles and steady wrists. He walked twenty-four miles one day to hear a lawyer make a speech.
Growing from boyhood to manhood he was often alone. His stepmother told him "she didn't mind his bringing dirt into the house on his feet; she could scour the floor; but she asked him to keep his head washed or he'd be rubbing the dirt on her nice whitewashed rafters." His mother said: "'Abe never spoke a cross word to me in his life.' As time went by the stepmother became one of the rich, silent forces in his life."
"He wanted to learn, to know, to live, to reach out." He said to Denis Hanks, "the things I want to know are in books; my best friend is the man who'll get me a book I ain't read." Sometimes his friends would reply, "Well, books ain't as plenty as wildcats in these parts of Indianny."
John Hanks, who worked with Abe, said, "When Abe and I came back to the house from work he used to go to the cupboard, snatch a piece of corn bread, sit down, take a book, cock his legs up high as his head, and read." All the boys read The Kentucky Preceptor, said Hanks, "but Abe picked out questions from it, such as 'Who has the most right to complain, the Indian or the Negro?' And Abe would argue about these things while pulling fodder in the cornfield." It was such things as these that made Dennie Hanks say there was "suthin' peculiarsome" about Abe.
Besides reading the Bible and figuring his way through the arithmetic, he read Aesop's Fables, Pilgrim's Progress, Robinson Crusoe, and The Life of George Washington, by M. L. Weems. In 1825
Robert Owens, a rich Englishman, had made a speech in Congress, saying that he hoped to find a better way for people to live "where work would be honorable yet there would be time for play and learning and where they would share and share alike, each for all and all for each." This scheme heartened the hungry soul of Lincoln. "There's a school with thousands of books," he said, "and fellows that knows everything." The schooling would have cost $100 a year perhaps, but Tom Lincoln had other plans for Abe. He wanted him to take a flatboat down the Mississippi River and trade flour, meal and bacon for cotton, sugar and tobacco. So Abe began cutting oaks to make a boat. Later it glided down the Father of Waters to New Orleans where the trade was made. New Orleans was a new world to him as people from many nations lived before his eyes. That year Indiana University printed its first catalogue and while the institution was to be no part of the young man's life, still nothing could keep him from reading, between the plow handles, The Revised Laws of Indiana, to which had been added the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States. Then, too, from the Louisville Gazette, which came weekly to Gentryville, he learned of the great orator, Henry Clay, of Kentucky, who came from a family of poor farmers. He also learned that the Erie Canal was finished and that it cost seven and a half million dollars.
Tom Lincoln now resolved on another move. Both men and animals had been coming down with the "milk-sick," so he moved to Illinois. But Lincoln carried with him a peddler's stock, which he sold along the road. He wrote back to Gentryville saying he had doubled his money, and incidentally he made his first speech. John Hanks put him on a box to answer a man opposed to improvements of the Sangamon River, and John told the neighbors "Abe beat him to death!"
When he reached Illinois, he helped build the cabin, put in the crops, and split the rails for fences. Many things contributed to hard times in the new state, where for days families lived on parched corn and where some died of cold and others of hunger. The Lincolns had a hard time. When the winter "eased up," they moved a hundred miles to Goose Nest Prairie in Coles County. Once again Abe took produce down the Mississippi. On his journey he saw many notices involving the sale of negro slaves. He saw an auction in New Orleans "where an octoroon girl was sold after being pinched, trotted up and down, and handled so the buyer could be satisfied she was sound of mind and limb." Lincoln was now twenty years old so he decided to go on his own.
"Saying good-bye to his father was easy, but it was not so easy to hug the mother, Sally Bush, and put his long arms around her, and lay his cheek next to hers and say he was going out into the big world to make a place for himself." Soon after he had left his father said to a visitor: "I s'pose Abe is still fooling hisself with eddication. I tried to stop it, but he has got that fool idea in his head, and it can't be got out. Now I ain't got no eddication, but I get along far better'n if I had." And the visitor left saying Thomas Lincoln was "one of the shrewdest ignorant men" he had ever known.
Industrialism was spreading. Cotton mills were the "industrial phenomenon" of the period. Each year tens of millions of pounds were produced. In 1820, cotton goods worth $2,500,000 were produced and in 1831 the total worth was estimated at $15,500,000; at the same time woolen mill output had increased from $1,000,000 to more than $15,000,000. It was a process that shook up culture, religion, and politics in New England and so mixed the currents of its destinies that Daniel Webster wrote: "We are disgraced beyond help or hope; there is a Federal interest, a Democratic interest, a bankrupt interest, an orthodox interest, and a middling interest; but I see no national interest, nor any national feeling in the whole matter." The spinning-wheel was consigned to the attic: "Spinning was to be done in cotton and woolen mills and clothes were to be cheap."
Lincoln found his way to New Salem, a trade center. Denton Offut opened a store and put Lincoln in as clerk in charge. Here Abe gained a reputation for honesty. One story ran "that counting the money a woman paid for goods he discovered she had paid six and a quarter cents more than her bill; so that night he walked six miles to pay it back."
A literary society was formed in New Salem, where Abe made speeches, and he heard that James Rutledge, father of Ann, was saying there was "more than wit and fun in Abe's head; he was already a fine speaker; all he lacked was culture" to enable him to become a distinguished man. Then, too, he had a lucky day. "It was the day that a mover prevailed on him to pay fifty cents for a barrel." Abe merely did it to oblige the man, but in the bottom he found Blackstone's Commentaries on the Laws of England. By accident he was owner of the one famous book that young men studying law should read first. Then Jack Kelso, the poet, who knew Shakespeare and Burns came into his life. Lincoln boarded at the Rutledge Tavern where it was said he never drank nor smoked nor swore.
When the Illinois legislature met at Vandalia in 1834
Abraham Lincoln was one of its members. He was twenty-five years old, holding his first elective office and being paid three dollars a day. He had to borrow the money to purchase the suit he wore, but he was serving his state, and he was also away from Ann Rutledge. It is just about one hundred years ago now that Lincoln lay taking Peruvian bark for chills and fever, when Ann Rutledge, who lay "fever-burned" sent for him. They spent an hour alone together. Two days after she died. Lincoln was back from the Legislature surveying in Sangamon County. In June, 1836, he again announced himself as a candidate for the Legislature, and was reelected. He came out for the enfranchisement of women and for moving the capital from Vandalia to Springfield. At this time the moral fiber of the man is revealed in the statement: "You will never get me to support a measure which I believe to be wrong, although by doing so I may accomplish that which I believe to be right."
Lincoln saw something of the civilization of his time as he rode into Springfield in March, 1837, to begin his law practice. About this time he appears to have proposed to a lady who rejected him, for in melancholy fashion he writes: "I have come to the conclusion never again to think of marrying, and for this reason: I can never be satisfied with anyone who would be blockhead enough to have me."
But in 1840 there came from Kentucky Mary Todd, "plump, beaming, with ready answers. She had smooth soft skin, soft brown hair, and was a center of likes and dislikes," among those who met her. "She was the first aggressively brilliant feminine who waylaid him with resources known to an accomplished and vital woman. To Mary Todd he lost his head." During her first year in Springfield both Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A. Douglas took turns at being entertained in the parlor at the Edwards house, where she lived. The story goes that she was asked which she intended to marry and she replied, "The one that has the best chance of being president."
In 1840 Lincoln and Mary Todd became engaged to be married. "The months passed, Lincoln was busy. He couldn't go to all the parties Mary Todd was going to: she flared with jealousy. And went with other men. They fell out, made up again. The wedding was set for New Year's Day, 1841. The bride was ready and the groom didn't come."
On the day set for the wedding Lincoln again took his seat in the State Legislature, which lasted two months. He made himself believe that he did not love Mary. His friend Speed said he should tell her so. He left to see her saying he would be careful not to say too much; but he was gone two hours and when he returned he said: "When I told Mary I did not love her she burst into tears and said something 'about the deceiver being deceived!' It was too much for me. I found the tears trickling down my own cheeks. I caught her in my arms and kissed her." Speed said "he was a fool and that he had renewed the engagement again." Lincoln replied, "Well, if I'm in again, so be it. It's done, and I shall abide by it."
On November 4, 1842, they were married. Lincoln was thirty-three and his bride was twenty-three. Much has been said about the marriage of Abraham Lincoln and Mary Todd, but Gamaliel Bradford, thought of as an especially keen biographical analyst, thinks they were always fascinated with each other. Four years later, Lincoln, who was now the father of two sons, Robert Todd and Edward Baker, was getting ready to go to Washington. True, there were still some debts from the New Salem Days "when his grocery store winked out into bankruptcy," nevertheless he had managed to buy a house on Eighth and Jackson street a few blocks from the public square. Yes, it was all quite true, Abraham Lincoln, the boy who wore deerskin moccasins and a coonskin cap was a successful lawyer in Springfield, Illinois, and he was going to the nation's capital to be the only Whig congressman from the state of Illinois.
Note: You will find additional material from chapters twelve to chapters eighty-two in "Abraham Lincoln, The Prairie Years," by Carl Sandburg.
Questions
1. S. Marion Tucker, an authority on Drama, says: "The supreme achievement of drama is the creation of character." The highest aspiration of the dramatist "is to form human beings as real and convincing as if nature herself had moulded them." What is true of the drama is in large measure true of the realistic novel, and also of the literary biography because it has adopted the technique of the novel. A biographer mainly interested in presenting facts might be satisfied with writing: Mary Todd, who came from Kentucky to Illinois, in 1840, married Abraham Lincoln in 1842. But a literary biographer does not do it that way. He paints such a picture of Mary Todd that you can see her. He also tells you so much about her that you know her. Turn to chapter fifty-two and read to the class the description there given and decide if Sandburg has been successful with his portrait. What do you like about her? What do you dislike about her? Are you interested in the description of her costume? Do you think she had ambition? Do you think she had insight? Chat about her in any way you feel inclined.
2. C. Alphonso Smith, of the English department of the U. S. Naval Academy merely brings to mind what all students of literature know when he says: "Literature can restore the past to you." It is characteristic of Sandburg's Lincoln that it is reconstructing the Prairie Years for you. Recall how he makes you feel the thrill of building the Cotton and Woolen Industry in the picture he paints. Cite other examples of a restoration of the past through pictures or other means.
3. Literature is always concerned with style. A writer without feeling for style might be content to say, There was something peculiar about Abraham Lincoln, but Sandburg has Dennie Hanks say: There was "suthin' peculiarsome about Abe." Sometimes when Abe asked for books to read his friends replied: "Well, books ain't so plenty as wildcats in Indianny."
4. Did you laugh as you read any part of the book? If so, it was because of the presence of humor. All novels are supposed to possess humor, and as the literary biography is akin to the novel it is that much more complete if it also possesses humor. Have you sometimes felt like weeping as you have read this story? If so, it is because it possesses pathos. Feeling enters largely into all branches of artistic writing and the author is conscious of seeking to affect the feelings of his readers. Can you cite examples of passages, that make especial appeal to the emotions?
5. In what way does Robert Owen's plan resemble plans we hear of today?
6. Under what circumstances, and in what year did Lincoln declare that women should be enfranchised?
7. Name some of the books Lincoln read. Which book is said to have been his favorite book?
Social Service (For Fourth Week in February)
Lesson 4 ADULT EDUCATION
Text: Civic Sociology, by Edward A. Ross; Chapter IX.
