[Vol26 | November 1939 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Caroline M. Hendricks]

By Caroline M. Hendricks
THIS morning I shall discuss three points with regard to the Family Relations class: First, what we are hoping to do?our aim in this department; second, some of the fundamental characteristics of a leader in Family Relations; third, the material in the lessons. In teaching Family Relations, please do not hope to tell people how they can be happy. There is no recipe for happy family life, there is no panacea; all we can hope to do is to help each other to see our problems and analyze them with a degree of intelligent understanding. Family relations is one of the most difficult subjects to teach; yet, it is one of the most satisfactory subjects. Do not attempt to use the number of members in your class as a criterion of your success. If during the entire year you can help one family, you are justified in feeling that your time and efforts have been very well spent. It is worth while for parents to come together and discuss their problems if they do nothing more than learn that their family is not unique in its problems. As long as we have family life, we will have problems to solve, and fundamentally these problems are the same. They differ in degree. One family may have a problem that is more serious than that of someone else in one respect, but the other person will have another problem that seems to balance it. We all have problems, and we always will have problems; what we are attempting to do is to
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 767
help people get an intelligent understanding of family relationships so that they will be able to solve their problems more satisfactorily. You have already heard that class discussion is the most desirable method of handling this subject matter.
Encourage members to talk over their problems, but never let them feel that you realize they are talking about their own family problems, even if you know they are.
Make discussion absolutely impersonal. You must be careful in the example cases discussed not to betray the confidence of people who probably have come to you to talk over their problems. Be sincere in your work, have faith in family life.
Feel in your hearts that the greatest happiness in this world comes from human relationships and that the most important human relationships are those within the family group.
Help your class members to realize that the greatest source of happiness and satisfaction in this life comes from satisfactory family relationships. Be vitally interested in your subject. Are you interested in family life? Are you interested in gaining information about it?the best information available? I would suggest that during the winter at least two good books dealing with the family be read. Do not depend entirely upon the material contained in the lesson.
Such an important subject as Family Relations requires more information than can possibly be given in the space devoted to these lessons in the Magazine.
This material will serve, I hope, to stimulate you; then, you must do research work. If you can make the members of your class feel that you have a fund of information back of what you are saying, it will inspire confidence in you and add greatly to your success. It is essential that any person who serves in the capacity of a leader in family life inspires confidence in people. E. R. Groves' book The American Family, is worthy of your consideration.
Groves says that home is not a place, it is a habit of life, and some people have this habit, of course, more fully than do others.
What we call "domesticity" is a habit that has come forth from associations in our former family experience. If we have this habit of home, this habit of domesticity, we have it as a result of our earlier life.
Domestic experience is not attained by the power of the will but it must come through experience and growth.
Help these young mothers, these young married people, to realize that we all have problems when we start out, and that living together in the family is simply an experience; emphasize the fact that there can be no happiness without growth and development.
Help them to appreciate the seriousness of domestic failure; it influences throughout life every person who is a part of that family group. I cannot tell you where you can find well written material on the first lesson, which deals with the family council, but I do know of many families who have practiced the family council plan, and it has been their salvation. I hope you will discuss the importance of coming together in family life and its value in binding people together within the family. Use your own ideas and your own initiative and
768 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
work them into the ideas contained in the outlined lessons. The second lesson deals with the handling of family finances. Stress the point that whatever plan the family decides upon must be agreeable to both mates. There must be agreement as to the handling of family finances. I wish to stress again the importance of faith in family life as the foundation of success in your work. Our major aim is to make the home a refuge, a place of peace and comfort where every individual has security, love and affection; a place where those who are weary and tired after the day's work will find peace and rest. "It is not life that matters," says Hornell Hart, "it is the courage you bring to it." There is no problem that is too difficult for the individual if that individual has the necessary courage with which to meet that problem. This is the message we have for our young people who are beginning to found their homes during this very difficult period of time.
Officers Meeting
ADDRESS