[Vol26 | November 1939 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teaching Today]

VISITING TEACHING TODAY
By Counselor Kate M. Barker IT is a wonderful experience to meet together as we are this morning?a group of people coming from so many different places and yet understanding one another so well because of common ideals, common interests. 'This is the great purpose of life. Our Father in Heaven wishing for the greatest development and happiness of His children, planned a world where they would love to learn, to live and work together. The world is coming to realize that the biggest problem it has is the problem of human relationships. "To be alive in such an age!
With every year a lightning page Tumed in the world's great wonder book Whereon the leaning nations look.
When men speak strong for brotherhood, For peace and universal good."
More and more, men are speaking strong for brotherhood. Organizations, national and international, are being formed for the purpose of bringing about brotherhood, which means understanding, appreciation, helpfulness, peace and love. But before there can be real brotherhood, there must be a common acceptance of the fatherhood of God, and this the world has not. Our Father in Heaven is expecting His Church to take the leadership in this movement. The fatherhood of God is a reality to us. He has not only given us the greatest of laws, ""Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thy self" (Luke 10:27), but He has also given us the perfect machinery for the realization of this love.
This machinery is the Church, and every organization in the Church has a very definite responsibility. The work of Relief Society visiting teachers strikes at the very heart of brotherhood.
When the Relief Society was first organized and the visiting teachers appointed, there were very definite needs to be met.
People were joining the Church, one of a family, two of a city, and coming to Nauvoo. How lonely some of them must have been! But these friendly visitors went about, saying by their visit, "You are not alone, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 753 you are with your brothers and sisters." It was a hard winter.
There was sickness and poverty.
People had to keep close to one another, to render aid where there was need and in order that those who had might share with those who had not.
Throughout the pioneer days there was a great need for this service. But as the population increased, the need was not so great. Gradually, mutual helpfulness was to a great extent replaced by specialization.
There were hospitals, nurses, undertakers, social workers. But there is still need for this type of service?no one knows when, and it is better to go ninety-nine times when there is not a need than to miss the one time when there is.
There is always the spiritual need. The need for the friendly hand, the encouraging word, the comforting word.
There are always people who are discouraged, those whose faith is weakening, those who are in sorrow.
This service is probably the greater challenge, for to be of real service in the spiritual realm one must have the "understanding heart", as_ expressed in the poem "The Visiting Teacher's Prayer" by Afton Free Baird: "Give me, Oh Lord, this day, The power to do one kindly deed; Help me this day, I pray, To plant one little seed. Of faith and hope within the heart Of one despondent. "Give me, Oh Lord, this day, The power to lift another's sorrow; One word of comfort say That will brighten the tomorrow Of some sad heart that ever longs For one departed. "Help me, Oh Lord, this day, Unselfishly to give; Show me the way, I pray, A better life to live, For I shall dedicate this day To Thee, Oh Lord." Do we appreciate the wonderful efficiency of our Organization? In an emergency, practically every home in the Church could be contacted in a day. No one need ever be desperately in need if the visiting teacher's work is 100% efficient. The Relief Society is for every adult woman of the Church, and in our Relief Society meetings we contact regularly only about one-fourth of them. It is easy to say they are not interested, that we plan a fine program and are ready to hold out the hand of fellowship, if they will only come. But that is not the spirit of the Gospel.
That was not Jesus' way. He did not stand on a mountain and teach those who would come. He went into the homes and market places to seek the people. The message of the visiting teacher is the only Gospel message which reaches many of the homes. In our complex civilization, with the rapid tempo of living, many spiritual values are being lost. The Church must guard these values if we are to know the fellowship which our Father in Heaven wishes us to know.
Before the days of quick and easy transportation,.
There were ?neighborhoods".
People exchanged labor, the social life was largely the life of the neighborhood; neighbors worked together, played together and developed a strong "we'' feeling. The sorrow of one was the sorrow of all. No one felt he was standing alone.
There was a feeling of security because of being one of the neighborhood group. But now we do not 754 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE know the people living on the same block, or in the same apartment house.
Life today is expressed in this verse: "I thought the house across the way was empty, Till yesterday crepe on the door, made me aware Some one had been living there."
Have you ever been in a large city and had sickness in the family and felt that terrible loneliness which comes at such a time?
People want neighbors.
Human beings crave that security which comes from feeling that there are those near who are interested in them.
When the Relief Society visiting teachers come to our homes, their presence says to us, "You are not alone. We are your friends. If you need help, we are ready to help, and back of us is a great organization of sisters who are also your friends." The sense of security which we feel will be in direct proportion to the sincerity and dependability of the teachers and the regularity of the visits. We are awakening to the full import of the great principle laid down by Paul, "No man liveth unto himself" and, "Finally be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another, love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous; not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing, but contrariwise blessings; Knowing that ye are thereunto called that ye should inherit a blessing." John's message was, "Love one another". But love does not come from a sense of duty; love comes from understanding and appreciation. In the hurry of life today we do not learn to really know people. We see so many people in this fast-moving age that our so-called friends are scarcely more than acquaintances.
Lives touch only on the surface. In the horse and buggy days, one could drive along the street, see a friend at the side of the road, drive to the side, stop and visit for awhile. But today, our eyes are glued to the road; we do not see who is at the side of the road, and as a result, there are many neglected kindnesses, many forgotten courtesies and often stupid blunders and misunderstandings. We judge people too often by things that do not count?external things, little peculiarities. We see, too often, the little weaknesses and fail to see the strengths. As life becomes more complex, it is increasingly difficult for us to know people whose natural interests are different from our own. But if our Church cannot bring together people whom the ordinary affairs of life tend to push apart, because of education, economic levels, social backgrounds etc., if the testimony of the Gospel which we have does not make for a "fellowship" based on understanding and appreciation, then we are failing. THE visiting teacher comes into our homes each month with a spiritual message. She comes to talk with us. We have an opportunity to know her because we are meeting on the highest level, talking of those things about which we feel the deepest. We have a common meeting ground?a testimony of tlie Gospel. The prophet Ezekiel was commanded by the Lord to visit some convicts.
Ezekiel was a learned man, he was a prophet and resented the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 755 idea of being sent to visit the convicts. He thought, "What have I in common with them?" But he went and sat with them and talked with them and came away astonished at what he found in the hearts of these convicts. In one of our wards was a woman whose standards of housekeeping were not as high as the standards of the community. As a result, she was criticized, not taken in as an intimate member of the group. A visiting.
Teacher who was assigned to that district said, "How can I talk with her?
What have I in common with her?" But she visited her several times, and soon after in a group when as usual some one was criticizing this sister, the visiting teacher said, "But you don't know her. If you knew her as I have come to know her you would love her as I do." We need more such loyalties. In another district was a woman who because of educational advantages and wealth was considered proud and unapproachable. The visiting teacher assigned to this home said, "How can I visit her? How can I talk with her about the Message?" But after a few visits, after sitting and talking about the Message, the teacher said, "I have found that she is one of the most humble women I know." We need more such interpreting of one to another. In our affairs of everyday life, how many of us get an opportunity to talk to another regarding the things we feel deepest about? We are so busy with making a living and with the mechanics of living that most of our conversation is about these surface things of life. But all of us have longings and ideals which if not expressed are more or less smothered.
Even in our Church meetings we are passive. Our ideas are enlarged and intensified as we bring them in contact with those of others. Expressed, they became a part of us. The visiting teachers come to our homes each month.
They come to talk with us fora few moments about spiritual things.
They are sisters of like ideals even though they may not have had the same experiences. We have an opportunity for self-expression and growth in talking with them. The last night which Jesus spent with His disciples before His betrayal He prayed for them, "Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are.. "Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word: "That they all may be one, as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us: that the world may believe that thou hast sent me."?John 17:11; 20: 21.
This prayer is for us today. If we are to have the unity which Jesus prayed that we might have, if we are to build the brotherhood which He wishes His church to have, it must be based on more than cooperation in work, more than general in- _terest in people, or on general love for mankind. It must be built on real, personal friendship based on understanding and appreciation. To achieve such a unity is the real challenge of the Church today, the achievement of which will bear our testimony to the world that Jesus is 756 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the Christ and His gospel is the practical way of life. The Relief Society visiting teacher has a wonderful opportunity for service in helping to bring this understanding and appreciation.