[Vol26 | November 1939 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Nellie O. Parker]

By Nellie O. Parker
THE course "Education For Family Life" was launched one year ago. While it has not been the entire success we wished it to be, there have been some very gratifying results. We feel that in many cases the aim of the course has not been clearly understood, and difficulties have arisen that need not have been; for example, the conflict with the social service lesson and its class leader. It was never intended that this course conflict with or detract from the social service lesson. The Relief Society program has always been planned to meet the needs and interests of the women and has been expanded to embrace new things as progress in a changing world has demanded. We find that we are not reaching all eligible Latter-day Saint women through our regular courses of study. We are not getting all of our young mothers, many of whom are high school and college graduates. Many of these young women are joining clubs and study groups to the exclusion of Relief Society. To meet this situation, the very popular subject of "Education For Family Life" was chosen as the new course of study. The class procedure was so planned as to give as many opportunities as possible for personal participation and development of leadership ability. Family relations is a very vital and timely subject. Current books and magazines abound with excellent thoughts and discussions concerning it. It is an important subject for everyone, especially parents. It assists them in aiding the family to function as it should, to build character and develop responsible citizens, to make better and happier homes and communities, and to build a true democracy. It is recommended that the course be held on the fourth Tuesday of each month and that it run simultaneously with the social service lesson but not draw from the social service class. It is the consensus of the General Board that if it is impossible to hold the class at this time because of the inconvenience to mothers with young children, another hour be chosen that will allow these women the privilege of attending. The class is not to be held on any of the other Tuesdays; we suggest that four P. M. on the fourth Tuesday may permit mothers to secure older children, home from school, to care for the babies. An evening hour, or Sunday evening after church, may be an advantageous time. It would be convenient for fathers to attend if the classes were held in the evening. An officer of Relief Society should meet with the class; this should not be too great a burden as the class meets but once each month. The class is to be recruited mainly from new women. Seek out and invite all women who should be inter-
766 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ested in the course and who would enjoy taking an active part either as class leader or giving topics and otherwise participating in the discussion. The class should be a means of adding new members to the Relief Society organization. In conformity with our aim, we suggest that the class be allowed as much opportunity for personal initiative and activity as possible within Relief Society regulations and standards. Use your best judgment in guiding the course. It is to be under the supervision of the counselor in charge of education. It is recommended that a committee of three be chosen, with one member as chairman, to serve as program committee, to manage programs and to arrange for those taking part each month. If there is difficulty in securing a different class leader for each lesson, members of the program committee themselves may take turns being class leader, giving other members assignments and allowing considerable time for discussing and solving the family relationship problems. There should be a department in Union meeting to instruct and guide leaders in planning, organizing, and presenting the lesson material. There should be open sessions occasionally to which husbands are invited and opportunity given them to participate in the discussion.
HINTS AND AIDS FOR TEACHING FAMILY RELATIONS