[Vol26 | November 1939 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Article by President Louise]

By President Louise Y. Robison N the early part of this year it was my privilege to attend a conference held in the White House. I wish you might have the thrill which came to me the day I spent there. It was not the beautiful building, it was not even the thought that presidents or officers of our government lived there, although I honor these men in their positions. It was something more than that; it was my country, and it stood for opportunity and the fine things of life which it gives to us just to the extent that we are prepared to receive them. I was a bit early for the conference, possibly twenty minutes before the opening of the meeting. I was so glad that I had a few minutes to think, and I thanked God that I could say, "This is my country," and it is my country because my parents accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ and came to this land. My parents were English-born. I was never more thankful for them, that they were the type who heard the voice of the Shepherd through His servants when he called them to gather to this land, described by the prophets in the Book of Mormon as a land choice above all other lands.
There were representatives from Alaska, Hawaii, Porto Rico, as well as from every state in the Union except two in attendance at the conference. It was interesting to sec how earnestly the subject of character education for our children was approached and how sincerely ways and means of accomplishing this were sought. I was interested in the address of Mr. Homer Folks. I will read just a bit of his address to let you see, as I do now, the possibility of every little child, whether it be your child or another person's, if properly cared for. Sister Amy W., Evans, a former member of our General Board, used to say that good social work, good community service, means that the community gives to every child the same attention that one would want given to his own child. The following paragraph from Homer Folks implies the wonderful opportunities there are for children. He said: "In planning for this 1939 conference, we have been looking ahead, 780 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not to 1940, but to 1980 or thereabouts.
Somewhere within these United States, within the past few years, was born a child who will be elected in 1980 to the most responsible office in the world, whose incumbent lives here. We cannot guess his name or whereabouts. He may come from any place and from any social or economic group. He may now be in the home of one of the soft-coal miners, or in the family of a sharecropper, or quite possibly in the home of one of the unemployed, or in a family migrating from the Dust Bowl, or in a college professor's family, or he may be surrounded with every facility, convenience, and protection which money can buy.
Very likely his home is on a farm. Even Dr.
Gallup with his poll can give us no light on this problem."
Children born in any of these situations can become leaders in this great country of ours. Mr.
Folks later said that even though a child does not become President, there are hundreds of governors, mayors and lawmakers needed. In our Church think of the number of bishops, stake presidents and apostles needed, as well as the great office of president of the Church.
What wonderful opportunities there are for children! But there are other things that must also be given them. Of course, attention was called to their need for good homes, food and medical help, but a fine Catholic Priest said, "Character, more than brains and brawn, is the essential for successful living and for an ordered society. To build character, youth must be taught the art of right thinking and the science of self-control."
Speaking further, he said: "Man or child cannot do without absolutes; namely, the existence of God, the eternal and immutable principles of tight and wrong, and the inherent dignity of man." WHEN I heard these things, of course my mind turned to the Relief Society.
What is Relief Society doing to uphold these standards and meet these needs? In listening to Sister Lyman and Sister Barker as they told of the real work we are doing, I realized that we have a program that will take care of every one of these needs.
Statistics given me by a school nurse from a community within one hundred miles of Salt Lake City reveal that out of 476 examinations of sixth grade children, which means children about eleven years old who have their permanent teeth, only 60 children's teeth were in good condition. Now, much depends upon Relief Society. We have the means, we have the provisions for caring for these things. No matter how fine the spirit of a child or how hard he tries, he is handicapped when grown to manhood if he has a weak body. So we must build up the bodies of children and also direct them so they will live in accordance with the principles that have been given us. The thing that pleases me in contemplating all of this is that we were told to do these things by a prophet of God, a man whom God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ spoke to and told of the needs of the people not only a hundred years ago, but right today.
Sisters of the Relief Society, see where you can put these things into practice. It was the opinion of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 781 conference held in the White House that the home, the school and the church are responsible for those things which they deemed even more essential than material things ?the emotional and religious training that will result in good characters. I pray my Heavenly Father that He will bless you wonderful women, that He will go with you to your homes and to your groups, and that you will have the spirit which we have had in this conference.
Yesterday was marvelous; there were so many splertdid instructions?read them in your Magazine. I think a very interesting thing is revealed in the life of the Savior, the Son of God. He had power to call legions to His command, but when that terrible hour came and He knew He had to pass through a terrible ordeal, the Bible tells us in Matthew that He went to Gethsemane with His disciples and He was sorrowful, and He said to his friends Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, "Tarry ye here, and watch with me." He was sorrowful unto death, and while He prayed they slept, and when He came to them, He said, "What, could ye not watch with me one hour?" I wonder if there is any one here who does not need the human touch, who does not, through the Relief Society, have the opportunity of watching the one hour with those who are bearing heavy burdens!
Look after those who have heavy burdens. You have been given that privilege, you can comfort and bless souls. May God help you that you may see how to do it, and may you have His spirit to lead you I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
Notice: Conference Addresses N the interest of time and wide distribution, it has been deemed advisable to publish Relief Society Conference Addresses in the Relief Society Magazine rather than in a special Conference pamphlet. The Address by President David O. McKay will appear in full in a later issue of the Magazine.
Digests of the following will also appear: "Lesson Objectives"?Mark K. Allen "Good Reading?Joan of Arc", Rosannah C. Irvine "Les Miserables", Belle S. Spafford "Report of Family Relations Work in Stakes", Annie M. Farr, Smithfield Stake, Emma G. Phillips, Liberty Stake "Educational Work of the Relief Society", Counselor Kate M.