[Vol26 | November 1939 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Rae B. Barker]

By Rae B. Barker
LIFE, as we know it, is group life. No one is independent of others. The social concept is the group concept. Social service then is service in the interest of the group. Growing out of Relief Society social-consciousness have come some successful, vital community projects which have carried our social service work beyond the class room into practical service projects. In 1934 in a ward social service class an idea took root. Something must be done with children's leisure time. A neighborhood library was a suggested remedy?a simple request it seemed, but actually so complex its realization involved the Parent-Teacher Association, the school board, public library and the city recreation department. The project was engineered by the local Parent-Teacher Association president in conjunction with the Relief Society representative. Together they were a splendid combination of "Noticer", "Specification Writer" and "Finisher"; they could see what needed to be done, how it could be done, and they earnestly set out to do it. They moved carefully, gaining one concession at a time. They convinced all supporting groups that the thing could be done. Contributions ranged from dimes to ten-dollar bills, building space and books (five hundred in one lot) to a budgeted appropriation for a librarian's salary. When in 1936 it was finally accomplished (it now has four successful summers and service to five school districts to its credit), those who had conceived the idea and set it in motion wisely let the open recognition go to the "Finishers". Another remote Relief Society group, a stake board, also did some "noticing" and "finishing" on even a larger scale with a different phase of group service. They recognized a distinct need for more women with nursing experience and for a maternity hospital. From April, 1937, to January, 1939, persistent, intelligent leadership played a winning game. Rebuff and discouragement were turned into success. Stake and county interest was built up until sufficient material support for nursing service and scientific equipment for a maternity delivery room was secured. This was matched with housing facilities and other furnishings by the Relief Society stake board, supplemented by ward Relief Societies and one generous brother. Still in its first year, this six-bed hospital is a source of great satisfaction to the thirty-five mothers already served, to other mothers registered for care in the months ahead, and certainly to those who were courageous enough to start and to finish so fine a social service project.
Family Relations Department Kate M. Barker, Chairman
PURPOSE AND CONDUCT OF COURSE IN "EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE"