[Vol26 | November 1939 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Conference]
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE October 4, 5, 1939 Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
THE Semi-annual Conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, October 4-5, 1939. The Conference consisted of eight sessions: An opening meeting, five department meetings, a general officers' meeting and a general session for the public. President Louise Y. Robison presided over the Conference. The attendance was exceptionally large, consisting of general officers, board members and class leaders. The response to the roll call was as follows: 120 stakes, 3 missions, 3 mission presidents, 91 stake presidents, 139 counselors, 52 secretaries, and 491 board members.
Following the custom of previous years, the subject matter for the department meetings was the formal educational program of the Relief Society. The music, instrumental and vocal, was especially fine. During the public session, Mrs. Vincent Hilles Ober, President of the National Federation of Music Clubs, was in attendance and spoke in high praise of the work of Relief Society in the field of music, especially complimenting the efforts of the Relief Society Singing Mothers.
REORGANIZATIONS
The following reorganizations were reported:
Date Stake Released Appointed President Sept. 10, 1939
Cache Lula Y. Smith Mary M. West Sept., 1939
East Jordan Alta F. Andrus Lucy B. Godfrey June 18, 1939
Franklin Bertha P. Larson Alice S. Merrill July 5, 1939
Highland Jennie B. Duffin Allie R. Barnes 1939
Hollywood Zatelle F. Sessions Julia E. Parry July 16, 1939
Idaho Falls Mary S. Jordan Martha R. Telford Sept. 30, 1939
North Weber Cora Christensen Nellie W. Neal Sept. 1939 St. George Juanita L. P. Brooks Marian M. Snow Sept. 1939
Star Valley Pearl B. Holbrook Arvilla Hyer Aug. 27, 1939
Wayne Mary A. Brinkerhoff Ruby M. Forsyth 1939
Maricopa Mary M. Davis Clara Goodman Aug. 27, 1939
Ogden Cora S. Jenkins Kate F. Woodbury May 31, 1939
Oneida Ellen B. Larson Ora W. Packer Aug., 1939 St. Johns Camelia J. Rencher Clara R. Sherward June 25, 1939
Sevier Estella Poulsen Myrl Brugger
Missions Central States Nellie D. Woodruff Edna M. Bowman Hawaiian Cassandra D. Bailey Armada B. Cox New England Fern C. Eyring Valeria B. Young Northern States May G. Hinckley Ethie M. Muir
Opening Session
GREETINGS By President Louise Y. Robison
MY dear sisters, although I appreciate the honor of extending greetings to you, I have difficulty in expressing the sincere admiration and love which the General Board has for you dear co-workers. Many of us have worked together for years, we have solved problems together, we have prayed for each other, we have witnessed unselfish devotion to the work of Relief Society until our hearts are as one. We miss some of the dear ones whom we have learned to love until they seem part of our very lives. In their places, however, are new members of our great "official family" whom we greet with love, having confidence that they will carry our banner forward with the same spirit of devotion as the former sisters have done. I wish we had some way of introducing the new members. Each of us might try to see how many she can individually welcome. If you newer sisters (I dare not say younger) only knew how delighted all of us would be to meet you, I am sure you would go out of your way to introduce yourselves. Our meetings today will be devoted entirely to the educational work, and we especially welcome the class leaders. We deeply appreciate the excellent work you are doing. Hardly a report has been given this year by the General Board member who has visited your stake which has not been high in praise of the way you have treated the topics assigned to you. I sometimes wonder, though, when you are engrossed with your special lesson, if you create the desire in the ward class leader to think of the development of the whole Relief Society program, or only the lesson which the class leader is giving. The theology lesson could be made much stronger, and the members of the class would receive a broader understanding if some correlation could be made between it and the literary and social service lessons. There is hardly a lesson given in literature and social service, and certainly not a teacher's message which would not be vitalized by reference to some principle taught in the theology lesson, and all lessons should be applied to everyday life. Relief Society is working for the development of the individual woman. A well-rounded program is provided. We place it in your competent hands with the prayer that you will be given inspiration from the Great Teacher, that you, too, will bring life more abundant to those whom you teach.
Visiting Teacher Department Belle S. Spafford, Chairman.
SENTIMENTS FROM THE HOME By Vera S. Hilton President, Deseret Stake Relief Society
FROM a scientific standpoint, a response from ten to twenty per cent of a group is considered a very accurate representation of the opinion of that group.
