Conducted by Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman.

In common with all stake and ward officers the General Board of the Relief Society will be happy indeed to meet once again around our Official Table to discuss problems, weigh events, propose measures to improve and constantly accelerate the work of this great organization. It may be that now the war is practically over, there will be somewhat of a relaxation along Relief Society lines, as well as in other forms of social life in the world at large. Yet, after all, we know that the source of life and growth is at the root of this organization, and we do not need constant excitement nor the stimulus of popular favor to keep us alive and growing.

The General Board unites with all the stake boards, and they with the ward boards, in loving congratulations to the members of the Society in the resumption of our activities during the year 1919. After spending six weeks in the Denver City Charity Office, Mrs.

Lyman has returned to Salt Lake City. During this time she was studying methods of relief and family rehabilitation, and doing practical work along these lines. In connection with a Red Cross Home Service course taken a year ago, Mrs. Lyman did her field work in the Denver City Charity Office, and became so much impressed with the efficacy of the work done there that she went back this year to supplement her former work and study. In this office every effort is put forth to study carefully each family situation with a view of removing the causes which have produced dependency and its handicaps, and then of giving the family a fair opportunity and as far as possible an equal chance in life with those families which are more fortunate. If a family can be helped to recover itself and be made self-supporting without money relief, all the better. Any self-respecting family or individual in distress prefers to be given assistance that will preclude money relief, if possible, because there is a strength in every individual and in every family, which comes from the feeling of being independent. To give relief without knowing the family situation is regarded as very dangerous to the family. No modern physician would think of prescribing the same remedy for all ailments, and only after a careful diagnosis does he prescribe at all. In helping families along charity lines a careful going into the situation is considered just as necessary as is the diagnosis of the physician. Health, sanitation, employment, education, recreation, and religion are all important factors in rehabilitating a family. In many instances these are more important than money relief. However, whenever relief is really necessary, it is given adequately but under close supervision. Another feature in the Denver office is the strictly confidential nature of the work. No worker is considered properly equipped who cannot absolutely keep the confidence of the clients. Whenever relief is really necessary it is given adequately under close supervision.

Before returning home, Mrs. Lyman, in company with Mrs. Ruth May Fox, of the General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A., attended the meeting of the board of directors of the National Council of Women, at St. Louis. The National Council of Women is the American branch of the International Council of Women. On account of the influenza epidemic the meetings were held at the home of the President, Mrs. Philip N. Moore. The business of the meeting included recommendations of the chairman of standing and special committees, budgets for the chairman, place for the next biennial meeting, plans for work in which the National Council is interested, and the selection of delegates to attend the International Council of Women, which is to be held in Christiania, Norway, October 1-9, 1919. Four new organizations were admitted to membership as follows: the Woodman Circle, the National League of Women Workers, the Children of American Loyalty League, and the National Women's Republic Association. This makes twenty-eight organizations now belonging to the National Council. It was decided to hold the next biennial meeting of the Council in St. Louis, in November or December, 1919. It was also decided that delegates be sent to the International meeting in Christiania, the delegates to be chosen by the executive committee. It was recommended that an International Committee be formed in each nation to be composed of all the members of the National Council and individuals interested in the work. A great many matters regarding peace and reconstruction work were brought up, but in view of the unsettled conditions in the world at present, it was felt that the time was not ripe for a definite reconstruction program to be outlined. However, a reconstruction committee was appointed to which all matters will be referred during the year, the committee to confer with the president and make known to the affiliated organizations from time to time all matters of consideration.

Madam St. Croix, a member of the National Council of France, was in attendance at the meetings and gave a very interesting report of the work of the French women. She stated that the National Council in France is made up of one hundred and fifty organizations, and during the war they have worked as one unit. In all the war and reconstruction work the women have been recognized by being placed on all committees where matters relating to the welfare of women and children have been considered. Nineteen delegates were in attendance at the meetings and Mrs. Moore gave a luncheon at her home in their honor.

The subscriptions to the Magazine are coming in with their usual force and frequency at this crowded period of Magazine activity.