James H. Anderson.
The more notable topics of public discussion in December were: 
1st - Spanish influenza, wherein the re-breathing under masks is held by physicians to offset in harm the protection given; vaccination is reported from a test of 1500 cases in Boston to be of little value, since the disease does not render the person immune from a re-attack and consequently the vaccine cannot do so; strict quarantine and complete isolation are the most effective measures yet demonstrated. 
2nd - Peace negotiations, in which President Wilson's views have been broadened by his visit to Europe, where his "fourteen points" received typical characterization by Premier Clemenceau of France: "Too many; the good Lord gave but ten." 
3rd - Control of all railways, cable, telegraph and telephone lines by the government to the extent of dictating all lines of communication and transportation, which is not favored by Great Britain, as shown in that government's reply to Canada that such a thing would not be submitted to for lines landing on British soil; and which also is strenuously opposed in this country as it would be a suppression of correct information and of the freedom of the press and of speech in the United States. These three topics disclose such a pronounced difference of opinion as to suggest that "peace on earth" even within nations, not to say among all nations, is still far distant.

At the same time, the prospective opening to full religious liberty of the South American republics, of Palestine and other parts of Asia, and of all the European nations in due time, is indicative of the approach of a period when Elders of Israel shall "preach the gospel of the kingdom in all the world for a witness before the end shall come" to world disputes and crime.

Gen. Allenby and a British army entered Aleppo in December, thus relieving all of Mesopotamia and Syria from Turkish control. A United States of the World is being advocated by the Non-Partisan League in the United States, but is not due to attainment just yet.

Women knitters for the Red Cross received orders on December 28 to quit the work; many household needs in that line now may get attention. Aerial flight across the Atlantic, from Canada, with a 2000 horse-power airplane carrying four men, is scheduled for January by a Canadian aviator.

Bolshevism in Russia is still carrying on its reign of terror, although little news thereof is permitted to reach the public in other countries.

The American battle fleet, comprising most of the American warships which have been in European waters, returned to New York in December and there received a great ovation. Nearly 500,000 enemy aliens in the United States were released by order of President Wilson in December, the necessity for their internment no longer existing.

Berlin has been the scene of severe rioting and fighting several times during the month of December - an indication that German unity may have to stand the test of another revolution. Jewish government in Palestine under British suzerainty is now sought by the leaders in the Jewish Zion movement, with excellent success in prospect for that solution of the problem.

Austria suffered less in December than in November from internal disturbances, the people there seeming to realize that it is better to go to work and produce food than to fight and starve. Portugal, although a republic in Europe, did not escape the assassin's hand as in December, the president of the republic having been murdered to board a railway train.

Food regulations in the United States were modified on January 1st with the effect that flour took a small rise in price, the prospect for a scarcity in 1919 not having disappeared. 
 
 .
Judge W. M. McCarthy of the Utah Supreme Court died during December. He had been a member of that court for sixteen years and stood high as an upright, conscientious judge.

Hasty marriages to young soldiers are netting a large crop of deserted wives in the United States, making it necessary for new army regulations to prevent such unions.

Emperor William II of Germany abdicated in December and he and his friends engaged in an effort to prove that he was not personally responsible for starting the great European war.

Control of operation of all means of transportation and of communication by wire is being sought by national government officials in the United States, and is meeting with strenuous opposition. 

Ireland proclaimed an Irish republic on Christmas day; many thinking people outside of Great Britain feel that Irish independence is an unsuccessful experiment under existing circumstances.

The Peace Conference in Paris, although scheduled for January, is likely to carry its deliberations through February, there being twenty-seven nations represented at the conference. State control of practically everything is being urged by certain theorists until it looks as if the next stage of government in the United States will be an official autocracy and popular slavery. Women candidates for the House of Commons in Great Britain all were defeated in the December elections there, the chief reason being that those candidates had aligned themselves with the laborite party. Mexico's Carranza government is headed for an early dissolution, according to reports received at the close of December. There will be neither disappointment nor weeping in this country at such an outcome.

Brigadier-General Richard W. Young, of Utah, made a short visit to his home State on his return from France, January 1. Brigadier-General Frank L. Hines, also of Utah, made a short visit at Christmas.

ON THE WATCH TOWER. Influenza claimed over six million victims by death in the last four months of 1918, according to statistics gathered in London; and the pestilence is in the world yet. The total deaths reported in all armies during the war is just under six millions. Turkey now asks the Entente allies to aid in reorganizing that country. This assistance probably will take from Turkey all of Syria and Mesopotamia on the east, and all European territory, which includes Constantinople, on the west.

Conscription for the United States in raising armies is the plan of a measure introduced into Congress. The British premier David Lloyd George says the only way to secure peace in Europe is to abolish conscription everywhere.

Asleep for twenty-one days is the experience of a five-year-old daughter of Robert L. Moyes, of Ogden, Utah, in December, following an attack of influenza. At the close of December the child had awakened, and there seemed a fair prospect of recovery from the illness.

In the British elections in December, the ministry of David Lloyd George received overwhelming endorsement from the people of Great Britain, men and women voters. This will give the British premier especial strength in the peace negotiations, his people being almost unanimously behind him in policy.

At Chicago, in December, professors of high rank in the educational world testified in a sedition case on trial that the most dangerous faddists in the country had an abundant membership in the school-teaching profession. Utah people may some day awaken to a sense of that same fact.

President Wilson was received in Europe, in his visit there in December, with the cordial welcome befitting that due to the great nation which did so much to bring to a successful close the war that for so long threatened the destruction of popular government. He also has obtained much first-hand knowledge of what the nations of western Europe have had to suffer.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

Motto—Charity Never Faileth

Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells — President
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams — First Counselor
Mrs. Julina L. Smith — Second Counselor
Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman — General Secretary
Mrs. Susa Young Gates — Recording Secretary
Mrs. Emma A. Empey — Treasurer

Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon
Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas
Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon
Dr. Romania B. Penrose
Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox
Mrs. Janette A. Hyde
Mrs. Emily S. Richards
Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley
Miss Sarah Eddington
Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth
Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune
Miss Lillian Cameron
Mrs. Ida Y. Beatie
Mrs. Phoebe B. Dusenberry
Miss Edna May Davis
Miss Sarah McLelland
Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas

Edward, Music Director
Miss Edna Coray, Organist

 
Editor Susa Young Gates
Business Manager — Janette A. Hyde
Assistant Manager — Amy Brown Lyman

Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. VI.
FEBRUARY, 1919. No. 2.

This month President Emmeline B. Wells will be ninety and one years old. We cannot allow this notable occasion to pass without laying at the feet of our President a rose of sweet remembrance. We voice the sentiments of the General Board of this Society, of each Stake Board, and of every member thereof, in congratulating our President on this happy and auspicious occasion.

We honor President Wells, not only because of her extremely long and constantly active service, great as that may be; nor because of her gifted mind, her facile pen, her generosity and her sympathy with womanhood everywhere; her unselfish devotion to children, and to friends; her integrity to the truth, her love of the gospel, her loyalty to the presiding priesthood; all these merit and claim our respect and reverence; but, beyond this, and with all this, there lies another potent reason why we honor our leader. God and his servants chose her out of all the women of this Church to be the Elect Lady. And, living worthy of this great calling, she commands our respect and reverence.

That is a keynote principle. Not persons, not individuals, but causes. Great aims, noble objects, these must form the ultimate elements of our thoughts and aspirations. Yet, we may well stop by the wayside occasionally on our difficult daily climb, and salute the leaders of our cause, the banner-bearers of our Society. They have not chosen themselves, but have been called by inspiration, and set apart by the presiding authority.

She has been in the Church 77 years on her birthday this year. That, too, is one of the lessons we learn from daily association with our President; reverence and obedience to proper authority. She is quick to hear the whisper of the Good Shepherd's voice, and her swift feet run out to meet and worship the Lord and to obey her leaders. In this we shall do well to consider her example.

May the peace she has sought, the comfort she has earned, the devotion she has desired, veil and enshroud her remaining days and years. And may the light of her quick intellect remain undimmed, shining out from the windows of her soul to the end.

The appointment of Elder Melvin J. Ballard to the apostleship undoubtedly will meet with universal approval throughout the Church. Elder Ballard is a native of Logan, and is the son of Henry and Margaret McNeal Ballard. As a youth and a man, he was industrious and successful. Popular and magnetic, capable and energetic, he moved always in a circle of friends. Gifted with an extremely beautiful voice, his welcome was assured in any assembly.

He has filled many positions of responsibility in a civil, religious and economic way in his town and stake; and when he was called to preside over the Northwestern States Mission, in 1909, his absence was felt in Logan and Cache stake. He is greatly beloved by elders, Saints and converts in the Northwestern States Mission, and his presence and services in that mission will be greatly missed.

His eloquence and simple, modest dignity make him an ideal preacher and exhorter.

Those who heard him speak in the recent conferences of the Church will not soon forget his moving appeals and his enlightening utterances. The work of the Lord will be advanced through the ministry of this good and gifted man.