[Theology: Characters and Teachings of the Book of Mormon, Preview]

theology lessons, "Characters and Teachings of the Book of Mormon," is a member of the general board of the Deseret Sunday School Union.. He was born in Preston, Idaho, a son of James Hans and Hannah Iverson Monson.
Some of his ancestors, including his greatgreat-grandparents, Benjamin Benson and Cynthia (Vail) Benson, were early members of the Church. Elder Monson, at present head of the English department and chairman of the division of humanities at Weber College, is a graduate of the University of Utah and received his M. A.
Degree from the University of Chicago. He has also studied at Stanford. University. His Church po- _ sitions have included Sunday School teacher, Priesthood quorum teacher, ward clerk, and member of Ogden Stake high council..
Married to Ada Button, daughter of Taylor Button and LaPrele Young, Elder Monson is the father. Of four sons and a daughter. His writings include many fine contributions to several national speech magazines and a number of outstanding articles and series of lessons contributed to Church publications. Leone Openshaw Jacobs, author of the visiting teacher lessons for 1951-52, "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth," was born in Kaysville, 
Utah, daughter of Joseph and Elizabeth Raymond Openshaw. She attended the University of Utah and married Joseph Jacobs, now an instructor at West High School, Salt Lake City. They have two children, Geraldine J. Wilkinson, an accomplished violinist, and Lamont Joseph, serving aS a missionary in the Western Canadian Mission. Sister Jacobs served as Relief Society mission president in the Palestine-Syrian Mission, where her husband presided, and from which they returned in 1939. Upon her return from the Holy Land she wrote a series of articles entitled, "To the Land of Our Savior," published in the Church Section of the Deseret News, April 1941. In 1941 she was called to the Ensign Stake Relief Society board where she became second counselor to President Lucina R. Card, and later first counselor to President Alice B. Steinicke. In 1945 she was made a member of the Relief Society general board. | She has served in various civic organizations, as a member of the home division of the Utah Safety Council, Vice President of the Dental Service Society, and is First Vice President elect of the Women's State Legislative Council of Utah. —., For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see the following references in The Relief Society Magazine: Jean Ridges Jennings, page 471, July 1948. Elder Briant S. Jacobs, page 471, July 1949. Elder Archibald F. Bennett, page 469, July 1950. Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Preview of Lessons for 1951-52
Elder Leland H. Monson HIS course of study is designed to give an understanding and appreciation of The Book of Mormon, one of the four standard works of the Church. It is not a study about the book, but a study of the book. 'The Book of Mormon is to be the text. 'The series of lessons will cover a period of five years, allowing time for a careful analysis of the characters of the book and of their teachings. It is to be hoped that at the termination of the course every member of the Relief Society will have read and studied The Book of Mormon in its entirety. The book is primarily a new witness for the divinity of Jesus Christ.
Parts relating to the pre-Christian era point forward to the birth and crucifixion of Christ upon the Eastern Hemisphere, and to his appearance to the multitude on the Western Hemisphere.
Succeeding chapters recount his mission among the inhabitants and emphasize the degree of influence it exerted upon the lives of the posterity of these people.
Taught primarily as a new witness for Christ, the course should strengthen the testimony of every member.
Each one who approaches a study of the book with a prayerful heart may realize in full the promise of Moroni: If ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. (Book of Mormon, Moroni 10:4). The first year's course of study will concern itself with an analysis of the structure and purposes of the book; the witnesses to its divine authenticity; the rise and decline of the Jaredite civilization; and the departure of Lehi and his colony from Jerusalem to the land of promise. It will give students of the book an insight into the personalities who made the history of that civilization, and will acquaint them with the teachings of these men. Relief Society members will want to familiarize themselves with the Biblical narrative from the creation to the building of the 'Tower of Babel before beginning the study of 'The Book of Ether. It has been thought advisable to encourage class leaders to base their discussions on material found in The Book of Mormon and outlined in The Relief Society Magazine; to discourage the use of too many outside references; to teach only authoritative material; and to study in context all quoted material in the lessons. The titles and objectives for the course of study for the first year are as follows: Lesson 1.