[Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1891 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" SUMMER VACATION: People of leisure go to the seaside, or into the mountains, to escape the heat and dust, to rest weary mind and over wrought brain; to loiter on the beach and catch the soft, invigorating sea breeze, occasionally "gathering shells' or writing in the sand, humming rhymes and ballads that have immortalized the seashore as well as the poet who wrote them; wander among the hills, resting in shady nooks and dells, soothed by the songs of birds and often startled by the glare of some handsome serpent.
These seekers of pleasure try to forget the toils and bustle of the cumbrous, noisy machinery of active business life, and often care not even for the daily papers, but amuse themselves in various idle ways, as though life had no higher aim than to banish care. It may be that to linger thus in some secluded spot, amid the beautiful, near nature's heart, passive if not forgetful, exhilarates and strengthens the mind as well as the body for the harder, fiercer conflicts with which all must sometime contend.—Aunt Em. JULY: THE YEAR'S SWEET HEART All things beautiful love her, For she, oh, the shy new-comer, So dear to the world, so dear! Is heart of the heart of summer, And sweetheart of all the year. —Madeline S. Bridges A FEW RECOLLECTIONS: We learn since this great work of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times is going on that it behooves us all to watch and pray. Not only so but to study the Scriptures that we may have oil in our lamps, and not be like the foolish virgins. I remember that Apostle Orson Pratt once said we were Gentile Saints. If so we must improve upon that we have learned, and remember the Jews are to be saved and do a work in the last days; and perhaps be more zealous in the cause than we are today, for we find ourselves overwhelmed by the cares of this world many times, that we neglect the important lesson of "Seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto you." May we not become weary in well doing, for in due time we will reap if we faint not. If we become indifferent in keeping the laws of our Father, we will certainly lose our reward, and darkness and confusion take the place of light and truth.—M. E. Kimball HYRUM STAKE: Pres. E.
Liljenquist addressed the congregation, "I have presided over this branch of the Society for 21 years. I love to work with my sisters, it has been a great pleasure to me, but my health is poor and the spirit tells me my work is accepted, and I wish to resign, I hope you will kindly release me.'' Bishop J. F.
Wright replied, "Sister Liljenquist is advanced in years, we appreciate her labors, she has been a friend to the poor." Pres.
Liljenquist was then honorably released. Alice Unsworth was then nominated and sustained as President by a unanimous vote. —H. M. Nielson, Sec. NOTES AND NEWS: A Swiss woman has invented a watch for the blind, on the dial of which the hours are indicated by twelve projecting pegs, one of which sinks every hour. Mrs. Julia Ward Howe's energy of mind cannot be better illustrated than by the fact that she began the study of Greek, when she was nearly 70 years old. Now, at 72, she has just read the plays of Sophocles in the original.  HE Women's _ International League for Peace and Freedom sponsored last winter the project "Art for World Friendship," in which children of twenty-four nations painted pictures by themselves and about themselves. 'The subjects were unusually interesting and the quality of work high. ARIA TALLCHIEF, daughter of an Osage Indian and a Kansas farm woman, a dancer with the New York City Ballet Company, is said to be most gifted in her art, dancing with the style and confidence of a great ballerina.
Born in Oklahoma, she is_ twenty-five years old, a beautiful young woman whose recent role in Firebird has brought her much acclaim for "flawless technique." PPLORENCE NIGHTINGALE is the subject of a new biography by Cecil Woodham-Smith. The story of this remarkable woman pioneer of nursing is told with much detail, and many historical incidents are delineated with a fine sense of accuracy. Queen Victoria had a special brooch cast for this "Lady With the Lamp" who became an international heroine. NNA ROSENBERG has been appointed by Secretary of Defense George C.
Marshall as his as sistant secretary of defense. Mrs.
Rosenberg is highly regarded by both capital and labor, and by both major political parties, for her past success and for her general fairmindedness. She has had important posts in personnel work and industrial relations, both in a private capacity, and also in co-operation with Mayor La Guardia, Governor
Dewey, and Franklin D. Roosevelt, and with large industrial enterprises, including the Rockefeller interests.
OAZEL DORIUS MOYLE, wife of Wilford Moyle, died June 2,
1951 at the age of sixty-two. She was an authority on flowers and gardens and at the time of her death was garden editor of The Deseret News. Many of her excellent articles have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine, giving much practical help and inspiration to women who love to make their home surroundings beautiful.
FT is refreshing to learn of the moral courage of Kathryn Grayson, star of big picture-musicals in color.
In her forthcoming straight drama, she refused to smoke in a scene which called for a cigarette. A nonsmoker, she refused to go against her convictions, however much she may desire preferment in Hollywood.
Page 455

EDITORIAL
VOL 38
JULY 1951
NO. 7 cJhe (covenant of Qifreedom
And Moroni sent forth and inspired their hearts with these thoughts — yea the thoughts of their lands, their liberty, yea, their freedom from bondage . . . (Alma
I N this time of confusion and conflict among men and nations, there are many who believe that the individual is of little worth, that he should be numbered among multitudes who are forcibly pressed into great mass movements directed by a few who have taken great power upon themselves. There are those even in our own country who believe that it is both useless and unrewarding to struggle for the retention of individual freedom, for the right of choice, for the perpetuation of those laws which have established the free societies of the earth. There are those who seem to have forgotten that the gospel cannot be carried to the peoples of countries which have lost their political liberty; and there are those who do not realize that only in a nation where the rights of individuals are upheld by codes of law can the Church exist and minister to the spiritual needs of the people.
In fact, it was the Constitution of the United States which made it possible for the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints to be restored upon the American Continent. It is a direct result of the protection of that great document that our Church is permitted to Page 456 grow and expand in the dominions of liberty.
The American continent has been blessed with a sacred tradition of freedom. It is indigenous to this continent. The Book of Mormon relates the history of the upholding of liberty among the ancient inhabitants of our land. "And Moroni sent forth and inspired their hearts with these thoughts — yea the thoughts of their lands, their liberty, yea, their freedom from bondage. . . .
Both the Old and the New Testaments declare that the children of God hold within themselves the power to be uplifted by the earth experiences which develop and magnify their immortal spirits. The ancient gospel which Jesus brought to the earth in new glory held forth the sacred truth that man was not created to live in doubt and sorrow and insecurity a few brief years upon the earth and then be lost forever.
The gospel plan declares the everlasting existence of the spirit of man, that his life upon the earth is a precious and essential part of his upward progress, his increasing knowledge, his unending opportunities, and his eternal life.
It was with devoted faith, and with an inspired understanding of the worth of man, that the builders of our Republic formulated the Constitution of the United States, and under its steadfast protection

EDITORIAL
457 has grown the great tree of liberty.
It would be well for all of us in this time when our Constitution is under attack even by those who enjoy and profit by its protection, that we read and study with a newly awakened devotion the words of our great Constitution, that we may know of ourselves the worth to us of this magnificient code— "the entablature of liberty." It would be an experience of great worth and of inestimable importance for us to read with gratitude, with appreciation, and with a new allegiance, the words which guarantee to us those liberties which are more precious than life, and which, in effect, do protect us and vouchsafe "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."
It is easy to forget our great heritage. Our codes of justice may be lost through indifference and lack of knowledge. They may perish unless all of us who know and love the fruits of the tree of liberty be ever valiant in actively defending every root and branch that protect the house of freedom.
-V. P. C.
LKeiief Society (congratulates I lewlu J^ppointed
OELIEF SOCIETY members throughout the Church extend congratulations and best wishes to the new officers of the Primary Association, appointed May 16, 1951. Sister LaVern W. Parmley, the new president, has selected as her counselors two former board members, Arta M. Hale, as her first counselor, and Florence H.
Richards to be her second counselor.
These women are experienced, capable, and outstanding leaders, who will direct the Primary Association with enthusiasm, spiritual insight, and a sympathetic understanding of the boys and girls of the Church. Sister Parmley, wife of Dr. 'Thomas J.
Parmley of the University of Utah faculty, and daughter of Eugene and Gertrude Park Watts, of Murray, Utah, is the mother of a daughter and two sons. She has held many positions of responsibility in the Church, including service on the Bonneville Stake Primary Board, and has been a member of the general board of the Primary Association since 1941. In 1943
Sister Parmley was made second counselor to General President May Green Hinckley and was first counselor to Sister Adele Cannon Howells at the time of Sister Howells' death, April 14, 1951. Sister Parmley, a beloved leader, is much appreciated for her executive ability, for her warm friendliness, and her faith and sincerity. Sister Hale, who was born in Oakley, Idaho, a daughter of Harrison R. And Sarah Ann Williams Matthews, is the wife of C. Dewey Hale, dean of boys at South High School, Salt Lake City. She is the mother of two children, a daughter and a son. After her graduation from the University of Utah, Sister Hale taught school in Oakley, Idaho, and later, during World War II, resumed her profession as a teacher in the Granite District, 
458 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951
Photograph, Courtesy The Deseret News NEW PRESIDENCY OF THE PRIMARY ASSOCIATION Left to Right: First Counselor Arta M. Hale; President LaVern W. Parmley; Second Counselor Florence H. Richards. Salt Lake City. She filled a mission to the Eastern States before her martriage in 1928, and she has served with devotion and ability in all the women's auxiliary organizations of the Church. Sister Hale has personal charm, a happy and enthusiastic disposition, and much well-directed energy, qualities which will be of great value to her in her new position. She was appointed to the general board of the Primary in 1945. Florence H. Richards, a lovable and gracious woman, is the wife af Dr. Lorin L. Richards, a Salt Lake City dentist. She was born in Logan, Utah, the daughter of Heber A. And Martha Sweeten Holbrook. She is EDITORIAL ) 459 a graduate of the L. D. S. High School and has had much experience as an officer in the Y. W. M.1. A. And in the Primary Association. She was appointed to the Primary general board in 1946. Her friendly manner, her humble faith, and her love and understanding of children are attributes which qualify her as a competent and inspirational leader of youth. Sister Richards is the mother of a son and two daughters. Sister Dessie Grant Boyle, who was the second counselor to Sister Adele C. Howells, remains as a member of the general board, and will continue her devoted service on the editorial board of The Children's Friend and the board of the Primary Children's Hospital. The general board congratulates the sisters who have been called to preside over the Primary at this time and extends love, confidence, and best wishes to them. <i. G olden Wedding Alice Morrey Bailey Yours is the golden fruit of fifty years That sprang from chosen seed to bloom and grow, With rooted life from April's sun and tears And equal courage for the heat and snow, And we would trace your path and learn your ways, For we have seen recorded gentleness Here where the twining fretwork of your days Erected leafed and flowered loveliness. You stand upon an upper bough of time Unfearful of approaching winter's blast, Frosted with late-season's silver rime, Sun-sweet with mellowed wisdom to the last.
Returning youth for lips and cheeks and brow Could touch no more of beauty than is now.