[Introductory by Jean Ridges Jennings]

Introductory A discussion of plans and equipment for guidance in the year's work.
Lesson 2. Patching An outline and discussion on the most useful types of patches and their uses.
Lesson 3. Strengthening ReadyMades A group of suggestions on what to do to increase the wearing-quality value of ready-made clothes.
Lesson 4. Knitted Goods This lesson outlines ways and means of putting new life in aging knitted clothing.
Lesson 5. Mending Woolens Suggestions on how women may inconspicuously mend, patch, and darn woolens.
Lesson 6. Mending Men's Suits Some of the more common problems that arise in taking care of men's suits, and their solutions.
Lesson 7. Sleeves, Underarm Patches, and Mending Sheers Some of the more common problems that appear in the maintenance of women's clothes and their solutions.
Lesson 8.
Linens and Household Articles Ways and means of salvaging worn and torn household linens and supplies. WVork ITleeting—Sewi ng 'THE ArT OF MENDING (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 1—Introductory Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, October 9, 1951 (Textbook: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot. ) O single phase of the over-all home-sewing plan is more important than mending. If clothes and household furnishings are to last and give maximum service, they must be cared for with vigilance until they are discarded. The old saying, "'A stitch in time,' should go a step further, saying that it may save the life of the garment, not just nine stitches.
Every woman who has the responsibility of homemaking would do well to learn how to care for and conserve clothing and home furnishings. If things are to last with long, hard use, a knowledge of approved mending processes is. A It is a wise homemaker who budgets her time for household tasks so as to allow a definite time for mending.. It should not be left to chance, nor should it always be put off until tomorrow.
Every housewife should provide a definite place for articles needing mending. 'This might be a drawer, basket, or shelf where articles won't cause confusion and disorder.
Here they may be neatly folded to await the mending day. Don't ever put unmended clothing away to be worn again. One of the most important aids to good mending practice is good and adequate equipment. A mending kit is a big help.
This may be a basket, box, or large drawer —any place where mending supplies can be kept together.
With materials all collected, it is easy to pick up odd bits of mending in spare time without having to hunt for equipment each time. | Have on hand at all times as regular mending equipment such supplies as fine and coarse needles, different sizes and colors of thread, assorted colors of darning cotton, pins, buttons, snaps, hooks and eyes, (light and dark), tape, bits of net, scraps of patching material for everyday things, a stocking darner, ruler or tape measure, and any other mending supplies you use often.
Whenever a garment is made at home, the leftover pieces of cloth should be neatly rolled into a bundle and saved until the article is discarded. One never knows when a piece of the fabric may be needed for patching or alteration. If a ready-made garment is altered and any of the cloth cut off, save the pieces for future use.
Provide a bag or box for storing these scraps.
Keep an attractive portable sewing bag or box convenient to the  486 mending area.
This can be used _for carrying a few pieces of hand mending to the sewing circle or to the neighbors when you go for a sociable chat; and you will, of course, take it to the Relief Society work meeting mending class. Or you may simply want to have it handy in the living room when the family gathers around the fire of an evening to listen to its favorite  radio program or talk over the day's events. You will be surprised how much can be accomplished by utilizing the odd moments.
Monotonous tasks seem easier when they are done with a group. Let's do this mending job as efficiently as possible, but at the same time keep it pleasant. SUitenaasee Nive Literature of England Preview of Lessons for 1951-52
Elder Briant S. Jacobs S we begin our third year of exploration in the realm of English literature, the objective of our course, and therefore of every lesson we present, should be planted firmly in our minds and hearts. During the many hours of work and reward we shall spend together, the desire "to earn and share that high pleasure which only literature and a sense of the past can give" should' dominate every phase of literary activity, from planning, through preparing, to actual lesson presentation. Such a living attitude will aid in solving your own peculiar problems, in sharpening your ability to help others see and understand, and in giving to your lesson warmth and vitality. 'Then, indeed, the objective shall be enriched in your own eyes; then, indeed, you will continue to know the thrill of this work which, effectively performed, is its own substantial reward. The general area of our present study might be entitled, "The Beginnings of Romanticism." The stage remains the same as in the past, but the theater is under new management and combines new scenery, a different set of actors, and previously unused story material into an expression of ideas and beliefs held by a new age of Englishmen. During this Romantic period English literature reached one of its two highest pinnacles (the other being the Elizabethan Era). The modern reader finds himself continually attracted to the great writers of this period. It shall be our purpose to learn of these men and their works, as well as to define the principles of romanticism which they held in common. It is most difficult to say just what the function of a lesson should be.. But let us hope that these lessons serve as a flame within your mind, and that if you absorb whatever warmth it may have, and it causes new relationships, ideas, and realities to grow within you to a constant light—then these printed lessons will more than have fulfilled their function. Whatever LESSON DEPARTMENT lesson this flame may have helped you create, finally, should be a memorable one, both for yourself and for those with whom it is shared. Our text is Woods, Watt, Anderson, The Literature of England, volume two (volume one was completed with last year's course). Published by Scott, Foresman and Company, this book is available at the Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah. The titles for the eight lessons follow: 487
Lesson 17. Introduction to Romanttcism. Lesson 18. Two Pre-Romantic Poets: James Thomson and William Collins. Lesson 19. T'wo Other Pre-Romantic Poets: Thomas Gray and William Cowper. Lesson 20. Robert Burns. Lesson 21. William Blake. Lesson 22. Two Romantic Essayists: Lamb and Hazlitt. Lesson 23. William Wordsworth. Lesson 24. William Wordsworth (Concluded). Ose hie Literature of England Lesson 17—