[Work Meeting—Sewing: The Art of Mending, Preview]

Work Meeting ) Preview of Lessons for 1951-52
Jean Ridges Jennings (Textbook: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot.) WE are living in a time of rising costs and economic uncertainties when no one knows what tomorrow may bring in the way of shortages and burdensome expenses. It is a part of good citizenship as well as sound economy to take care of the things we have and waste nothing. This means that mending, more than ever, is an important phase of homemaking. It is one of the home arts to be studied and learned with exactness and skill. What better project can women undertake than to master a craft that will help them and their families to prolong the use of clothing and household linens? The lessons for optional use by wards and branches at work meetings for 1951-52 will attempt to outline and explain some of the fundamental mending processes. It is impossible to discuss all of the details of this project. It is hoped, however, that everyone can get the feeling and the desire for precise and artful handling of mending problems. All should strive to eliminate carelessness and a hap- 484 hazard way of doing this very important task. One of the best ways to learn to do something is actually to see how it is done. If the work meeting leader or the chairman in charge of this special phase of the work meeting program arranges to have demonstration materials of well-done patches and darns in various kinds of clothing and household articles to illustrate the different lessons, the sisters will learn easier and faster. The sisters may be encouraged to bring their mending problems to meeting so that they can be shown the best way to repair their articles. Not only will they learn from doing their own mending, but they will also learn from observing what others are doing. A supply of scraps of various types of fabrics on which the sisters may practice would also be helpful. There are great possibilities for salvaging articles that might seem to be hopelessly worn. 'There is a world of opportunity to work up enthusiasm for and pride in the development of skill in mending. Women will grow to see that some hitherto tedious tasks can be really enjoyable because of the very nature of the accomplishment. It is recommended that advance notice be given of the type of mending to be taken up at the following work meeting so that the sisters can bring that type of mending to the class. The text, which we have formerly recommended, The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot, may be used for reference material and illustrations (pp. 213-  231). Wards which do not already own a copy may purchase one at the Deseret Book Company, 44
East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Also splendid material on this and other related subjects can be found in Government bulletins. 'They may be obtained by writing to the U. S.
Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. The course, to continue throughout the year, will include eight lessons, as follows: Lesson 1.