[Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W.
Cannon sistant secretary of defense. Mrs.
Rosenberg is highly regarded by both capital and labor, and by both major political parties, for her past success and for her general fairmindedness. She has had important posts in personnel work and _ industrial relations, both in a private capacity, and also in co-operation with Mayor La Guardia, Governor Dewey, and Franklin D. Roosevelt, and with large industrial enterprises, including the Rockefeller interests. HAZEL DORIUS MOYLE, wife of Wilford Moyle, died June 2, 1951 at the age of sixty-two. She was an authority on flowers and gardens and at the time of her death was garden editor of The Deseret News.
Many of her excellent articles have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine, giving much practical help and inspiration to women-who love to make their home surroundings beautiful. T is refreshing to learn of the moral courage of Kathryn Grayson, star of big picture-musicals in color. In her forthcoming straight drama, she refused to smoke in a scene which called for a cigarette. A nonsmoker, she refused to go against her convictions, however much she may desire preferment in Hollywood.  Q-> EDITORIAL a 

VOL.  'She Covenant of ieaae aee i And Moroni sent forth and inspired their hearts with these thoughts—yea the thoughts of their lands, their liberty, yea, their freedom from bondage... (Alma 43:48). N this time of confusion and conflict among men and _ nations, there are many who believe that the individual is of little worth, that he should be numbered among multitudes who are forcibly pressed into great mass movements directed by a few who have taken great power upon themselves.
There are those even in our own country who believe that it is both useless and unrewarding to struggle for the retention of individual freedom, for the right of choice, for the perpetuation of those laws which have established the free societies of the earth. 'There are those who seem to have forgotten that the gospel cannot be carried to the peoples of countries which have lost their political lib- | erty; and there are those who do not realize that only in a nation where the rights of individuals are upheld by codes of law can the Church exist and minister to the spiritual needs of the people. In fact, it was the Constitution of the United States which made it possible for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to be restored upon the American Continent. It is a direct result of the protection of that great document that our Church is permitted to  grow and expand in the dominions of liberty. The American continent has been blessed with a sacred tradition of freedom. It is indigenous to this continent. The Book of Mormon relates the history of the upholding of liberty among the ancient inhabitants of our land. "And Moroni sent forth and inspired their hearts with these thoughts — yea the thoughts of their lands, their liberty, yea, their freedom from _bond-?? Age Both the Old and the New Testaments declare that the children of God hold within themselves the power to be uplifted by the earth experiences which develop and magnify their immortal spirits. 'The ancient gospel which Jesus brought to the earth in new glory held forth the sacred truth that man was not created to live in doubt and sorrow and insecurity a few brief years upon the earth and then be lost forever. The gospel plan declares the everlasting existence of the spirit of man, that his life upon the earth is a precious and essential part of his upward progress, his increasing knowledge, his unending opportunities, and his eternal life. It was with devoted faith, and with an inspired understanding of the worth of man, that the builders of our Republic formulated the Constitution of the United States, and under its steadfast protection EDITORIAL has grown the great tree of liberty. It would be well for all of us in this time when our Constitution ls under attack even by those who enjoy and profit by its protection, that we read and study with a newly awakened devotion the words of our great Constitution, that we may know of ourselves the worth to us of this magnificient code—"the entablature of liberty." It would be an experience of great worth and of inestimable importance for us to read with gratitude, with apprecia- 457 words which guarantee to us those liberties which are more precious than life, and which, in eftect, do protect us and vouchsafe "'life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." _ It is easy to forget our great heritage. Our codes of justice may be lost through indifference and lack of knowledge.
They may perish unless all of us who know and love the fruits of the tree of liberty be ever valiant in actively defending every root and branch that protect the house of freedom. Tion, and with a new allegiance, the —V. P. C.