["And Behold, I Tell You These Things" by Leone O. Jacobs]

"And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). Objective: To show that service to the Lord and service to our fellow men are synonymous.
Lesson 2. "Remember that my Spirit will not always strive with man" (Ether 2:15). Objective: To point out that only by living the Lord's commandments can we be sure of the presence of the spirit.
Lesson 3. "Feast upon the words of Christ; for behold, the words of Christ will tell you all things what ye should do" (II Nephi 32:3). Objective: To emphasize that in the words of our Savior we have the perfect pattern of life.
Lesson 4. "Look unto God with firmness of mind, and pray unto him with exceeding faith, and he will console you in your afflictions (Jacob 3:1). Objective: To remind us that God is ever willing to comfort us in trial.
Lesson 5. "There is nothing which is good save it comes from the Lord; and that which is evil cometh from the devil" (Omni 25). Objective: To show that it is not just to hold God accountable for the wicked state of the world.
Lesson 6. "Now it is better that a man should be judged of God than of man, for the judgments of God are always just, but the judgments ] 482 of man are not always just' (Mosiah 29:12). Objective: To show that we should refrain from judging each other.
Lesson 7. "I have none other object save it be the everlasting welfare of your souls" (II Nephi 2:30). Objective: To help us appreciate the fact that there are many people who  are interested in our everlasting welfare.
Lesson 8. "He that will not believe my words will not believe me—that I am" (Ether 4:12). Objective: To show that when one truly accepts Jesus Christ, he accepts his words as well. Uisiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 1—''And Behold, I Tell You These Things 'That Ye May Learn Wisdom; That Ye May Learn That When Ye Are in the Service of Your Fellow Beings Ye Are Only in the Service of Your God" (Mosiah 2:17). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, October 2, 1951
Objective: To show that service to the Lord and service to our fellow men are synonymous. OFT IMES we unconsciously make a distinction between serving the Lord and serving our fellow men, when, in reality, they are one and the same. We think of attending our meetings, paying tithing, saying our prayers, and fulfilling assignments in Church positions as belonging to the service of the Lord, while, on the other hand, tending the baby of a tired mother, encouraging a despondent widow, taking some delicacy to an invalid across the street, appear to us as simply being a good neighbor. We mistakenly feel that service to the Lord is in a different category, that it is on a loftier plane, being removed from our contacts with mere human beings in the mundane affairs of daily living. Why cannot we see that service rendered to our neighbors and associates is-of the selfsame fabric as service to God? He has told us this is so. We might make a comparison. As parents we know our feelings when someone befriends our child who is in difficulty. We feel as grateful as though he had befriended us, do we not?
Perhaps even more grateful. If some kind friend gives encouragement, inspiration, or wise counsel to our child, it means the same to us, his parents, as though we had been the recipients of that much-needed assistance. So it is with our Heavenly Father.
When one of us befriends another of his children, it is the same as though we rendered that service unto him. The more we do to bring joy and righteousness into the lives of his children, our brothers and sisters, the more we lift each other up the ladder toward per- LESSON DEPARTMENT fection—the more we are serving our Maker. Henry Van Dyke, in The Other Wise Man, aptly illustrates this great truth.
According to the story, the "other wise man" used his three precious jewels, intended as gifts for the Messiah, to minister to the needs of a sick stranger, to save a baby boy from certain death, and to free a young woman from the bondage of debt. "I have spent for man that which was meant for God," Artaban said sadly. He searched thirty-three years for his King and finally neared Golgotha as Christ was hanging on the cross.
Buildings were shaken from their foundations by the force of the en- 483 suing earthquake, and Artaban was struck down by a piece of falling tile. As he lay dying his lips moved as if answering someone. 'Not so, my Lord. For when saw I thee an hungered and fed thee? Or thirsty and gave thee drink?
When saw | thee a stranger and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee?
When saw I thee sick or in prison, and came unto thee?
Three and thirty years have I looked for thee; but I have never seen thy face, nor ministered to thee, my King." 'Then we are told, he ceased speaking, and the sweet voice came again, "Verily I say unto thee, Inasmuch as thou hast done it unto one of the least of these thy brethren, thou hast done it unto me." Work ITleeting— Sewing THE Art OF MENDING (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)
Lesson 7-Pictures, Mirrors, and Wall Accessories
Christine H. Robinson
For Tuesday, April 10, 1951
CONSIDERABLE time and thought can be expended in selecting colors and arranging furniture, but, if any important decorative details in your home are overlooked, the attractive, livable results desired may not be achieved.
One of these important details, all too frequently overlooked, is the proper use of wall hangings, including pictures, mirrors, brackets, and other wall accessories. Wall hangings of all types provide an unusual opportunity for you to give your home that personal touch. With the possible exception of draperies, there is no other phase of home decorating in which individuality can be expressed so quickly, effectively, and inexpensively as in the selection and placement of pictures and other wall hangings.
Pictures can flatter and dress up a wall; they can dramatize a furniture grouping; they can make a small piece of furniture appear important and they can provide that added touch which gives a room interest, balance, and hospitality.
In selecting pictures, avoid the error of buying just anything to fill up wall space. Select your pictures as carefully as any other item in your home furnishings, paying particular attention to color, size, and type. Remember that color in pictures can make or break a room's decoration. If colors in a picture clash with patterned wallpaper, or with colors or design in furniture, the effect will be confusing and uninteresting. If, on the other hand, vour pictures pick up and accent the colors in your draperies, upholstery,

56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— JANUARY 1951 rug, and walls, the effect will be pattern on the wall for size and inpleasing and harmonious. terest. If it creates the desired ef-
The size of pictures, also, is im- feet, then hang the pictures themportant. The picture or picture selves exactly as the pattern, grouping should bear a proper re- For interest and balance, pictures lationship in size to the furniture should form a part of a furniture with which it is used, and also to grouping, and not hang in independthe wall area occupied. In deter- ent areas of their own. When hung mining the size of your pictures, do over a chest or sofa they should be not feel that you must always choose hung close enough together to form single, large ones. A wall area a single unit. Pictures should be which requires a considerable hung low, placed flat against the amount of coverage often can be wall, and set so that neither cord more effectively treated with a group nor nails show. When two or more of smaller pictures than with a large pictures are hung together, the botsingle one. torn line of the frames should be on Good decorating recommends the same level regardless of the size that small pictures should not be of the pictures, scattered around the room, but, In order to get the maximum rather, should be grouped together pleasure and decorative effect from on wall areas or over furniture your pictures, they need not be exgroups or pieces which you wish to pensive commercial oils or prints, emphasize or dramatize. In creating You can have fun assembling and these groups, the pictures should be framing your own. Try cutting vararranged to form horizontal and ious flower pictures from a seed catavertical rectangles, squares, or tri- logue, arranging them artistically to angles. Pictures should not be hung form a bouquet on a large colored in step-up fashion unless running piece of blotting paper. Frame the up a staircase. All pictures in the pictures yourself with molding purgroup should be hung close together chased from your lumber dealer, afso that they form an integral unit, ter painting the molding a harmonito give a feeling of one large picture, ous color. Flower or bird prints can In forming a group of pictures, be often be found in magazines. You sure the subjects are related. For can mount these on colored mats instance, you would not hang oil that pick up a color from the print paintings, flower or bird prints, and and hang in groups for an effective etchings in the same group. You splash of color in your room. Use can, however, use various types of your imagination, and you will think pictures in the same room, but not of many more interesting and helpin the same group. One way to be ful ideas. Remember, in framing sure of an interesting arrangement your pictures, the rules are simple— without marring your walls, is to express your own personality, suit arrange the pictures first on the the frame to the picture itself and floor, and then cut patterns of them to the character of your room, out of brown paper and attach these The same basic principles of good together with Scotch tape. Try this taste and judgment applied to the

LESSON DEPARTMENT
57 use of pictures also apply to the selection and hanging of mirrors.
Mirrors add life, gaiety, and spaciousness to a home and perform a function which cannot be filled by any other type of home furnishing.
In hanging your mirrors, see that they reflect something interesting and that their size is appropriate to the wall space.
If a mirror is too small for proper balance over a piece of furniture or on a wall area, it can be built out by hanging, on each side, a group of pictures, colorful china plates, or wall brackets holding interesting objects.
In decorating your walls do not overlook the possibilities of brackets and colorful plates. These can be used to add importance and size to a picture or mirror, or they can be used in interesting groups of their own. In using plates as wall decorations, again make sure they express the feeling of your room, formality or informality, and that they have the same general coloring as the rest of your room.
Discussion Points i. Discuss the importance of pictures and wall hangings which express the character of a room.
2. Give ideas on framing pictures. Why, with the exception of oil paintings, should most pictures have mats?
3. Demonstrate various ways of hanging a group of pictures.
4. Show how a small piece of furniture can be made to look important by the use of suitable wall decorations. jCtterature — The Literature of England
Lesson 15— Oliver Goldsmith
Elder Biiant S. Jacobs
For Tuesday, April 17, 1951
HpHE need to look at a man's face in order to "know" either him or his works is a strong and natural one, but there is something of the mystical about it as well. In seeing an author's likeness, most of us like to flatter ourselves that in his features we can discern the qualities which characterize the most intimate self-revelation which, recorded in communicable form, has come to be known as literature. The process also works in reverse: oftentimes, while reading a passage which is so particularly immediate that it comes alive in our imagination suddenly, and without being summoned, the image of the author looms heavily across our subconscious mental screen, almost like Hamlet's ghost.
Instantaneously, we relate the essence of the passage to the personal traits we like to see in his face and say within ourselves, "Yes, this indeed is his. I see it all, now, and all is one. His looks are of the same breed as his poetry. I like them both."
When Sir Joshua Reynolds painted the portrait of his friend Oliver
Goldsmith, he caught those qualities (or at least seemed to) which

58
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— JANUARY 1951 made Goldsmith the most charming, graceful stylist of his century, and one of the most pleasant writers one will ever read. A full, high forehead, heavy eyebrows, large, alert eyes, a mouth delicately shaped, yet full, and rounded cheeks, still scarred by the pox which had disfigured him as a child and which made him resent his ugliness even as he did his poverty. "Here," we might say, "is a man neither cunning, aloof, nor profound. His eye seems poised between a wink and a perpetual twinkle. From the side view portrait he might well turn to us full face, with warmth and cheer radiating toward us, unknown to him as we are. Having just met him, nonetheless we feel him to be one of us. Even as he seems to enjoy life, here is someone to enjoy.
Tell us more about him." Whether such thoughts originate from the portrait alone, from his works alone, or from a combination of the two, is a mystery, but an unimportant one. The fact remains that such impressions arise, and pervade our acquaintance with every aspect of the man.
But there is one other significant point in Reynolds' interpretation of Oliver Goldsmith that merits comment. In the portrait Goldsmith's left hand rests upon an open notebook; his right hand, holding a nibbed goose quill, is poised above the page, as if waiting for the proper phrasing to come before recording it. While he did not find himself as a writer until he was nearly thirty years of age, Goldsmith for decades fought off starvation with his pen as his sole weapon. During these desperate years of struggle he pro-
A Perry Picture Copyright 1909
OLIVER GOLDSMITH duced a volume of work which even by his fellow hack writers would be considered vast. He contributed to at least ten different periodicals, and wrote, revised, translated, compiled, or supervised at least forty volumes of work, some of them as sizeable as his eight-volume History of the Earth and Animated Nature. Nor did he receive just pay for his labors, since he was helpless to prevent his work for periodicals from being pirated by other publications.
As he once remarked, "If there be a pride in multiple editions, I have seen some of my labors sixteen times reprinted, and claimed by different parents as their own."
We must also credit his achievement on a level higher than writing

LESSON DEPARTMENT 59 to keep from starving. Like Dryden, pounds his uncle had given him and in the generation preceding, Gold- returned home. Next his uncle smith wrote and excelled in drama, financed him in his desire to bepoetry, and essay. Goldsmith wr