	COUNTY OF SALT LAKE.	}

	George R. Maxwell being first duly sworn ac-
cording to law deposes as follows:
	I am a citizen of the United States, native
born, and more than 21 years of age. I reside in
Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County; Utah Terri-
tory, and have so resided for about ten years
past. I own taxable property and reside in and
have so resided for more than two years past in
the—precinct of said city and county. I fur-
ther state that I am a duly registered voter on
the registration list of voters made in accordance
with the existing election and registration laws
of this Territory.
I further state that Robert T. Burton is duly
elected, qualified and acting assessor and register
of voters in and for said county in this Territory,
and now as such has in possession and not re-
turned to the election officer of any of the pre-
cincts of said county, the registration list of
voters of said county by him made for the pres-
ent year, as such registration officer. I further
state on information and belief that said list con-
tains the names of the following persons who are
not qualified or lawful voters,as I state on infor-

[Column 2]
mation and belief,viz.,Emmeline B. Wells,Maria
M. Blythe, and Mrs. A. G. Paddock and also a
large number of the names of women residing in
the various precincts of said Salt Lake County,
amounting to several thousand in number, but
the exact names and number of the same are to
me unknown; that being informed that said per-
sons above named, and the names of other
females to me unknown as above stated, were
and had been placed on said list by said assessor
and register as aforesaid, I, on the 24th day of
September, A. D. 1880, made a demand in writ-
ing upon said assessor and register at his office
and to his authorized and acting deputy then and
there being; to strike off from said list of voters
the names aforesaid and the names of all females
found in or contained in said list on the ground
that the said persons, nor any of them, nor any
woman had any right to vote; that said Burton,
by his duly authorized and acting deputy, then
and there refused to comply with said demand,
and said names of said persons, as lawful voters
remained, and yet remain, as I state on informa-
tion and belief, in said registration lists as lawful
voters in the county and precincts of which they
are listed.
	And affiant alleges, on his information and be-
lief, and so states the fact to be, that said persons
named, and all other women whose names are
on said list as aforesaid, are not, nor are any of
them, lawful voters; and the retention of said
names on said list as such, must be and, is a vio-
lation of the law and of the rights of affiant as
a lawfnl voter, and of the rights of all other law-
ful voters.
	The said Burton has until the 10th day of
October next to make his return of the registra-
tion list of the various precincts and that in the
mean time such return may be made at any
time, and that said list was completed by said
officer on the 19th day of September, inst., and
that affiant is informed and verily believes that
said officer declares that he will and intends to
return said list containing the names aforesaid,
and the names of a large number of other wo-
men as voters, all of which would be in viola-
tion of law and of the rights of affiant, and
all other lawful voters.
	Wherefore affiant prays for relief as follows:
	For a writ of mandamus or mandate to be is-
sued out of and from this court, commanding
and directing Robert T. Burton, Assessor and
Register of Voters for Salt Lake County, Utah
Territory, to erase and strike from the list of
voters of Salt Lake County, made by him, the
names of the following persons, viz.: Emmeline
B. Wells, Maria M. Blythe and Mrs. A. G. Pad-
dock, and also the names of all women whose
names thereon appear as voters, on the receipt
of said writ; or that he show cause before this
Court at the Federal Court Room, in the Wa-
satch Building, Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County,
Utah Territory, on the 29th day of September,
1880, at 7 o'clock p. m. of said day, why he has
not done so; also that in the meantime the said
officer be ordered not to return said list by him
made, or any copy thereof, to any election officer
until the further order of this court.
					GEO. R. MAXWELL.
				Subscribed and sworn to before
[SEAL.]			me, this 25th day of Septem-
				ber, A. D., 1880.
						J. MCKNIGHT,
							Notary Public.

	After the reading of the above, the Court
promptly issued the writ of mandamus, the text
of which is here given:
George R. Maxwell vs. Robert T. Burton, As-
	sessor and Register of voters for Salt Lake
	County, Utah Territory.
	The People of the United States of the Terri-
tory of Utah, to Robert T. Burton, Assessor and
Register of voters for Salt Lake County, Terri-
tory of Utah, Greeting:
	Whereas, It manifestly appears to us by the
affidavit of George R. Maxwell, a party benefi-
cially interested therein, that you, as assessor
and register of voters for the County of Salt
Lake and Territory of Utah, and the various
precincts of said county, have listed as lawful
voters in the registration list by you made, as
Register of voters for Salt Lake County, the
names of Emmeline B. Wells, Maria M. Blythe,
Mrs. A. G. Paddock, all women; also a large
number of the names of other persons who are
residents of Salt Lake County, and are women,
as lawful voters, and,
	Whereas, It also appears that the petitioner,
George R. Maxwell, is a lawful and registered
voter of said county, and that he made on you,


on the l4th day of September, inst., a demand
that you strike off the names aforesaid, and the
names of all women on said list, on the ground
that they and each of them were not entitled to
vote, and that said demand was refused, and the
names of said women, and a large number of
other women not named, are now in said list as
lawful voters, as it was your duty to do, and that
said list is now in your hands and under your
control, and that there is no plain, speedy or ade-
quate remedy at law for this alleged  failure and
neglect of duty.
	Therefore, We do command you that, imme-
diately after the receipt of this writ, you do
strike off and erase from said registration list of
voters the names aforesaid, and the names of  all
other women listed as voters, or that you show
cause before this court at the Federal Court
Room thereof, in the Wasatch Building, Salt
Lake City, Utah Territory, on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 29,1880, at 7 o’clock p. m. of said day,
why you have not done so; and you are further
ordered not to return said registration of voters
made by you, as aforesaid, or any part thereof,
or any copy therefrom, to any election officer
until the further order of this court.
	Witness the honorable Chief Justice and As-
sociate Justices of this Court aforesaid, this the
25th day of September, A. D. 1880.
	JOHM A. Hunter, C. J.,
	J. S. BOREMAN, A. J.;
	P. H. Emerson, A. J.
[L.S.] Attested by the Clerk and seal thereof
hereunto affixed.
	E. T. SPRAGUE;
	Clerk of Supreme Court of Utah Territory.


