CORRESPONDENCE.

	DEAR EXPONENT: It has been some time
since I have scribbled a few lines for your
readers yet I have not forgotten you. When I
last wrote we were living in the pretty little
valley of Sevoia, now we are at St. John. We
were quite sorry to leave our New Mexico
home, as we had lived there two years and be-
come much attached to the tall pines which
stood like sentinels on every side as if to guard
us from danger. There were only five families
there and as the Indians were quite uneasy all
over the country the leading brethren in this
vicinity deemed it unsafe for us to remain longer.
Yet we trust with the blessing of the Lord to re-
turn with other Saints to settle those valleys at
some future time. While there we had no reason
to fear the natives, in fact they appeared more
friendly than ever, and were sad at our depart-
ure. There were white men we had much
greater reason to fear. They knew the Indians
had ill feelings towards the whites as a rule
and they could not see why a few people living
out as we were, could feel so safe right in their
midst, unless we were also enemies to the
Americans. Thus it was the same old story.
We claimed to be Latter-day Saints, and con-
sequently were the peace-breakers and if the
colored people were our friends we could look
for no friendship from those who are so con-
stantly opposed to that poor despised copper-
colored race. But as it is the work of our
Heavenly Father we are engaged in,we can afford
to wait his pleasure and all will be made right.
There are about forty families at this place at
present and nearly all are living in wagons and
tents, or shanties of almost any description,
though doubtless all will try to build houses
this fall. Many would have done so before
had their time not all been taken up attending
their gardens and fields.
	The first part of the season was quite dry and
rather cold, and the past six weeks considerable
rain has fallen, which has improved the looks
of the place a very great deal. We spent the
Fourth of July as pleasantly as one would ex-
pect in a new place. The people were intend-
ing having a real good time also on the Twenty-
Fourth. We were all going to have dinner
at the bowery but a heavy rain and hail storm
come on the day before so we were compelled
to give up that, yet even in St. John there are
events that cannot be postponed even for rain or
hail however furious it may descend. It was
a very inconvenient time with tents and wagon
boxes almost swimming in water still our worthy
friend, Sister Mary Johnson gave birth to a fine
daughter and is getting along as well as one
could imagine. Surely the Lord is proving
that He is willing to take care of and bless
those who prove to him they can give up good
homes in Utah and come to this land, to help
redeem it and make a desirable home for the


Saints. We should do this with willing hands,
and then we are only doing a little portion of
the work and bearing some few of the trials
our mothers and grandmothers were called to
pass through in the rise of the Church and the
first settling of Utah. There are no Societies
as yet here for the sisters, young, or old still we
do not despair but trust that in a few short
months we will have their good influence in our
little settlement, There is a Sabbath School
which I understand is a great help to the
c[--]ldren. It will not be long before the Rail-
road, will be quite near, then how anxiously
will we look for some of our dear sisters from
Salt Lake and that region to pay us a visit.
Even now I can almost imagine I hear their kind
voices and feel the heavenly inflnence they ever
carry. Many of them I am personally acquainted
with, and to all I would say, may heaven's
blessing be with you while you labor in this
life for the welfare of Zion, and may the EX-
PONENT and its noble editor ever be prospered
is the prayer of its friend:
						MARY STUART.
	St. John, Apache Co., Arizona. Aug. 12, 1880.


