			WOMEN.

	The most cowardly effort has at last been
made! How forlorn a cause must be when the
necessity arises for its adherents to stoop to the
meanest subterfuges, and to hang its hopes on
the flimsy and uncertain power of technicali-
ties! A truly noble and worthy cause can be
manfully met, and certainly never can be in-
jured by the presence and influence of women,
especially after a faultless test of ten years
trust.
	The public plea is urged that she does not
pay tax! Does she not? If a piece of pri-
vate property can be shown upon which tax

[Column 2]
is not levied and collected at all hazards,
whether it belongs to a man or woman, save
they be "infirm, idiotic," &c., it will certainly
be worth visiting as possessing some very pecu-
liar and interesting properties—a priori. Where
a man and woman conjointly own the same
piece of property, as man and wife, is there a
necessity of paying taxes twice? Can it not be
considered as each pays his or her part, the
same as in any joint stock property. And in
this way every wife DOES pay her equal share
in all taxes her husband pays. Then shall she
also not have a voice with her brother what
shall be done with the taxes? Or shall she pay
the fiddler and stand by, like the awe-stricken
squaw, and look on at the august war dance of
her barbarous brethren. Ah! this suggests the
capsheaf of objections—she cannot go to war
and shed her blood for her country. If she
does not fight the battle of bitter, angry strife,
she fights the unceasing soul and body wearing
fight of home economy, and raises the boys
who can fight. And after all her sorrows, is it
not but right that she should have a voice in
how, when and where these soul-earned boys
shall fight? And further, were she among the
diplomats, nine times out of ten matters could
be adjusted without the sword. If she does
not do exactly everything man does, she does
many things he cannot or would not do: but it
all goes for naught, because she sets no price.
It is high time woman set a high price on all
her works and abilities, and see which bill foots
up the highest. She does not pay poll tax—
one dollar a year! It would be far more manly
to deny yourself a cigar once in two weeks
than to mention such a trifle; besides, where is
there a woman in five hundred who does not
do more than ten dollars worth a year for the
community in which she lives?
	What is the matter that just now a terrible
“fraud” has just been discovered? Were this
not a sudden hallucination, would it not have
been corrected long ago? The gist of the mat-
ter in a few words is, the"Liberals" (what a
misnomer) intend to elect the next congres-
sional representative, no matter how much in
the minority. They presume to question the
validity of the rights and privileges vouch-
safed to the Legislative Assembly (a body of
men possessing the confidence of the people,
evidenced by their very presence,) by the Con-
gress of the United States, and sanctioned by
the acting Governor of the Territory. Is law
a protection or a guide, or is it a vicious
weathercock set up on the cross roads, pointing
the road just as the wind may blow? Spiritu-
alizing the sense and meaning of words and
sentences away, has so long been a tradition,
and environing every thought with such squint-
ing technicalities and expressions, that it takes
more than the wit of a lawyer to tell what the
law really means when it is made. “The Lib-
eral Party!”—this presumptuous usurpation of
one of the most sacred words of the English
language, is an insult in the face of our honest
Constitution. That a few aliens, so far as the
country’s salvation is concerned, should come
here and feast and fatten themselves on the
hard earnings of this people, wrested only by
the most continued and patient labor from this
desert soil, and then as a diminutive minority
endeavor, by every subterfuge, distorted tech-
nicality and sacreligious prostitution of the sa-
cred word "Liberty," to deprive us of our dear-
est rights as loyal citizens of a free country
will probably be a more striking proof to the

[Column 3]
thus far prejudiced world of the unjustness and
unfairness of the principles of action of our
opponents towards us, than any amount of
complaints or arguments we could offer. Of
one thing we are certain, that our Father and
God has body, parts and passions, and that He
will hear our prayers with His ears and will
see our wrongs with His eyes, and will possibly,
in His anger, force an “ass” again to praise
Him, in spite of all his efforts to the contrary.
