"WATCHMAN! WHAT  OF  THE HOUR?"

	Liberal! In every lexicon the word is defined
--"generous," "generosity;" yes,  and  it  means
free, as the Heaven is free! Now, in Salt  Lake
City  it  has  become  a  paradox,  and  a mis-
nomer. Last night I was startled by reading in
the Evening  News an article got up by the "Lib-
eral" (save the mark) clique in our city  to  dis-
franchise  the  women of  Utah! What  is the
matter? Where does the shoe  pinch? "I want
to know." For ten years these said women have
worn this badge of freedom, given  them  by  the
suggestion of Brigham Young, and endorsed and
signed by the then Governor  of  Utah;  and  we
ever respected and honored that  gentleman  for
that  liberal  act,  for  in  that  act  he  gave us
, 'An assurance of a Mannl" We, the Women
of Utah, blessed and thanked those  two  gentle-
men,  who, if you please, gave  a  full  and com-
plete  definition  of  the  noble  word  LIBERAL!
From that time to the present we  have  jointly
cherished the boon, and honored it in every elec-
tion, by voting for men who desired to stand, not
only as benefactors to a small handful of  people,
but  to the whole  human  family,  of whatever,
caste or clime, as far as they had the privilege to
do so; and  a  retrospective  view  will  show
we  have  been  successful  in  the  men
to  whom  we  have  given  our  suffrage;
had  they  been  men  of  another  calibre, they
would not have had our  votes. How is  it  there
has not been  discovered  in  all  these ten years,
the flaw which is now exciting  such  a  furore;
with an attempt made to take away that which
was  honorably  bestowed,  and  has  been  most
honorably acted  upon  by the  women of Utah? 
We have always  esteemed  the  Franchise  as a
great boon to woman;  and  realize  it has been a
great blessing to us. It has  conferred a respon-
sibility that has excited reflection and given dig-
nity to character; it has broadened the brain and
expanded    the  heart  of  the    recipients;
and we  have  ever  acknowledged  the had of
God in inspiring the good  men  who  gave  it to
us, to  place His daughters in  such  positions  as
His  WILL designed, knowing  that  they  would
choose the good and reject the  evil  in  such  re-
sponsibilities, and having enjoyed it so long un-
molested, we cannot but marvel, why intelligent
men, who profess to enact  laws  for  intelligent
people, should all at  once allow  their  judgment
to be hoodwinked and  become so  obtuse  and  so
warped,  that  they  can  no  longer  see the
straight and narrow way" that  leads to truth
and  equity, and  a  "righteous judgment"  even
when the small affairs  of  women  are  brought
under their august fiat! Shall we say  with  one
of old,  "How  are  the  mighty  fallen  and  the
weapons of war perished?" 
