HOME AFFAIRS.

	FAVORABLE DECISION: Judges disagree! Just
as we go to press the decision is given in the
case of the mandamus. The Supreme Court of
the Territory sustain the demurrer. Chief Jus-
tice Hunter and Associate Justice Emerson
maintain the dignity of the law, and justice for
"Mormons." Judge Boreman gives a dissent-
ing opinion. He goes out of office to-morrow.
Gen. Maxwell has been outwitted again.
	THE County Convention composed of delegates
from the several precincts in Salt Lake County,
will be held in the Court House in this city, Sat-
urday, the 2d instant, at 2 p. m., for the purpose
of electing the 16 delegates, apportioned to this
county, to the Territorial Convention.
	REPORTS from Bear Lake Utah, Weber and
Salt Lake Conference of Relief Society, Y. L. M.
I., and Primary Associations are crowded out to
give place to important matters bearing upon the
subject of the attempt to disfranchise the women
of this Territory. We trust our readers will con-
sider this a good and sufficient reason for delay in
publishing.
	DR. Ellis R. Shipp has just returned from a
professional visit in the country. Her time has
been occupied in giving lectures upon physiolog-
ical subjects and treating diseases both Surgical
and Gynecological. She proposes now to locate
permanently in this city and open a class for the
more thorough instruction of woman in those
branches.
	We call attention to her advertisment.
	ON Tuesday evening, September 28, we receiv-
the following dispatch,from Mrs. Belva A. Lock-
wood, of Washington, D. C., "Stand by your
guns. Allow no encroachment upon your liber-
ties. No mandamus here." Mrs. Lockwood is
a brilliant lawyer and orator, and has won an
honored name that will go down to posterity,
by persevering in her efforts to aid the cause of
woman's emancipation and gaining admission as
a lawyer to the Supreme Court of the United
States.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
new class in obstetrics and continue during the
fall and winter. It will open on the 7th inst.
Much valuable information of the human sys-
tem can be obtained by attending these lectures,
and we would suggest to the young married

[Column 2]
ladies, who can devote some portion of their
time to the acquirement of useful knowledge to
attend the lectures given on a subject so intimate-
ly connected with their health and happiness.
See terms in advertisement.
	THE Semi-Annual Conference is near at hand.
On Wednesday next at ten o'clock A. M., the
sixth inst. the meeting will commence, in the
large Tabernacle. It is expected there will be a
numerous attendance from the country. As
this is the year of Jubilee, it is but natural that
people will assemble from all parts, to partake of
the spirit and blessings anticipated on such a
momentous occasion. There are many reasons
why the Latter-day Saints should naturally look
forward to the coming Conference with a great
degree of interest. The kingdom of Gcd is grow-
ing in strength and power and influence and
Zion is lengthening her borders and strengthen-
ing her stakes, and calling out into the broad
field of action more of her earnest laborers.
	We are indebted to the politeness of Mr. James
Dwyer, the able, efficient and enterprising pio-
neer bookseller of this city, for a most exquisite
bouquet of the choicest flowers of the season,
artistically arranged by the donor. Words are
weak to express our genuine appreciation of these
beautiful gifts of God, the flowers; and these
lovely and sweet perfumed ones, coming so late
in the season, and such rare specimens in them-
selves, created quite a sensation, and roused the
enthusiasm of all the family on the subject of
flowers, their beauty, merits, expression of sen-
timents, thoughts and language. Thanks, Mr.
Dwyer, and may your success as a florist equal
your fondest anticipations, in beautifying your
mountain home, which even now forms a great
attraction for all who have an eye to the beau-
tiful.
	ON Tuesday, September 28, Mr. Brigham H.
Goddard and Miss Lulu Kelly, both of this city,
were united in the holy bonds of matrimony.
The ceremony was performed by Pres. D. H.
Wells, at eleven, o'clok a. m. Mr. Goddard at-
tained his majority on the same day— two im-
portant events, in the life of the young man.
The young couple looked charming on the occa-
sion of the reception, which was held the same
evening at the residence of the bridegroom's
parents. The bride was exquisitely dressed in
simple white organdie, with orange blossoms,
and looked the picture of happiness. There
were a great number of guests, and a large va-
riety of choice presents. A delicious repast of
good things was served to all, the tables, which
seated forty people, were twice filled. We join
with many old friends of the family in wishing
these young people health, happiness and pros-
perity. May they travel down the journey of
life side by side, partaking of the rich blessings
of the new and everlasting covenant, and may
their posterity be as numerous as their hearts
desire, and their names be honored in all the
earth.


