BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY. 
	"On Tuesday,  the  3d,  several  of us went
with Joseph Smith, Jun., to the top of a mound
on  the  bank  of the  Illinois River, which  was
several hundred feet above the river, and from
the  summit  we  had  a  pleasant  view  of the
surrounding country.  We could overlook the
tops of the trees and the meadow or prairie on
each side the river as far as our eyes could  ex-
tend,  which  was  one  of  the  most pleasant
scenes I ever beheld.  On the top of the mound
there was the appearance of three altars, which
had been built of stone, one above another, ac-
cording to the  ancient order;  and  the  ground
was  strewn  over  with  human  bones. This
caused  in  us very peculiar  feelings, to see the
bones  of  our  fellow-creatures scattered in this
manner, who had been slain in ages past. We
felt prompted to dig down into the mound, and
sending for a shovel  and hoe, we proceeded to
move  away the  earth. At  about  one  foot in
depth we  discovered the skeleton of a man, al-
most  entire;  and  between  two  of  his  ribs we
found an  Indian  arrow, which had evidently
been the cause of his death.  *  *  *  The
same day we pursued  our journey. While  on
our way we  felt anxious  to  know who the per-
son  was  who  had  been  killed  by that arrow. 
It was made known to Joseph that he had been
an officer who fell in battle in the last destruc-
tion  among  the  Lamanites, and his name was
Zelph. This caused us to rejoice much to think
that  God was so  mindful  of  us to  show these
things to his servant.  Brother Joseph had in-
quired  of  the Lord and it was made known in
a vision.  While we were  refreshing ourselves
and  teams,  about  the  middle  of  the  day,
Brother Joseph got up in a wagon and said  he
would  deliver  a  prophecy.  After  giving the
brethren much good advice, he  exhorted them
to faithfulness and humility, and said the Lord
had  told him that  there would a scourge come
upon the camp, in  consequence of the fractious
and unruly  spirits that appeared among them,
and they would  die  like sheep  with the rot. 
Still, if they would  repent  and  humble  them-
selves  before the Lord, the scourge in  a  great
measure  might  be  turned  away; "but  as the
Lord lives, this camp will suffer for giving way
to their  unruly  tempers"--which  afterwards
did take place to the sorrow of the brethren. 
	The same  day, when we  had got within one
mile  of the  river  Snye,  we  came  to  a very
beautiful little  town  called  Atlas. Here we
found honey, for the  first time on our journey,
that  we  could  buy.  *  *  * There  was a
great excitement in the country through which
we had  passed, and  also ahead of  us;  the mob
threatened to stop us, guns were fired in almost
all directions  through  the  night;  Brother  Jo-
seph  did  not  sleep  much,  if  any,  but  was
through  the  camp  pretty  much  during the
night. We  pursued  our  journey on  the 4th,
and  camped  on  the  bank  of  the  Mississippi
River.  Here we were somewhat afflicted, and
the enemy threatened much that we should not
cross over  the river  out  of Illinois  into  Mis-
souri.  *  *  When we had all got  over, we
camped about one mile from  the little town of
Lousiana, in a beautiful oak grove, immediately
on  the  bank  of  the river. At this place there
were some feelings of hostility again manifested
by Sylvester  Smith, in  consequence  of  a  dog
growling  at  him  while  he  was  marching  his
company up to the camp, he being the last that
came  over  the  river. The  next morning
Brother Joseph said that  he would descend to
the  spirit  that was manifested by some of the
brethren to  let  them  see  the  folly  of their
wickedness. He  rose  up  and  commenced by
saying: "If any man insults me  or abuses me,
I will stand in my own defence at the  expense
of my  life;  and  if  a  dog  growl  at me, I will
let  him  know that I am his master."  At this
moment Sylvester  Smith,  who  had  just  re-
turned from where he had turned out his horses
to  feed, came up, and  hearing Brother Joseph
make  those  remarks, said: "If that  dog  bites
me I'll kill him."  Joseph turned to Sylvester
and said,  "If you kill that dog I'll whip you;"
and then  went  on  to  show the  brethren how
wicked and  unchristianlike  such  conduct ap-
peared before the eyes of truth and justice. 
	"On Friday, the 6th, we  resumed  our  jour-
ney. On  Saturday  night  we  camped among
our  brethen  at  Salt River, and  prepared for
the Sabbath.  *  * Here  we were  joined by
Hyrum Smith and Lyman Wight, with another
company. The  camp now numbered two hun-
dred  and  five men, all armed and equipped as
the  law  directs. It was delightful  to  see  the
company, for  they  were  all  young  men, with
one  or  two  exceptions,  and  in  good spirits. 
We were  now  reorganized  in  the following
order: Joseph  was  acknowledged Commander
in Chief; Lyman  Wight  was  chosen General
of the camp;  then Brother Joseph chose twenty
men for his life guard, I being one of the num-
ber;  Brother  George  A.  Smith  was  Joseph's
armor  bearer;  Hyrum  Smith was chosen Cap-
tain  of  the  life  guard;  the  remainder  of  the
camp  was  organized  into  companies as before
stated. We had twenty-five wagons, two horses
in  each, and  some  three. One  day  while we
remained here our General  marched us out on
a large  prairie;  he  then  proceeded  to  inspect
us, examine our firelocks, &c. Afterwards we
were marched in platoons, and an object being
placed, we  discharged  our  pieces, in  order  to
try  them;  we  were  drilled  about  half  a  day
and then returned to the camp. 
	"My first  attempt  at  washing  my clothes
took place at  Salt River.  My  shirts being ex-
tremely dirty, I put them into a kettle of water
and boiled  them for  about two hours--having
observed  that women who  washed boiled their
clothes, and I supposed by so doing they boiled
out  the  dirt;  I  then  took  them  and washed
them, endeavoring to imitate a woman washing
as near as I  could; I rubbed the clothes with
my knuckles instead of the palm of my hand,
and  rubbed  the  skin  all  off my knuckles, so
that my hands were  very sore for several days.
My attempts  were  vain  in  trying  to  get  the
dirt  out  of  my  clothes.  I  wondered  at  this
considerably; I  scolded and fretted because I
could  not  get  the  dirt  out, and I gave  it up,
and wrung  and hung  them  out to dry. Hav-
ing no  flat irons  to iron them, I took them to
Slsters  Holbrook  and  Ripley  to  get them
ironed; when  they saw them  they said  I  had
not  washed  my  clothes. I  told  them  I  had
done my best; although I had boiled them two
hours before washing, and had washed them so
faithfully I had taken the skin off my knuckles,
still I had  not  been  successful  in  getting  the
dirt out. They laughted heartily, and informed
me  that  by  boiling them before washing I had
boiled the dirt into them.
 "On the 15th we again resumed  our march. 
Many of  the  inhabitants  went  with us several
miles;  they  seemed  to  have  much  respect for
us. We  traveled  about  fourteen  miles  and
camped on a large prairie. 
	"On Wednesday,  the  18th,  at  night  we
camped one mile  from the town of Richmond,
Ray County.  On the 19th we arose as soon as
it was light and passed through the town  before 
the inhabitants were up. As Luke Johnson
and others were passing through, before the
teams  came  along, Brother  Luke  observed a
black woman in a gentlemen's garden near the
road. She  beckoned  to  him and said, "Come 
here, massa,"  she was evidently much agitated
in  her  feelings.  He went up to the fence and
she  said  to  him: "There is a company of men
lying in  wait  here, who are calculating to kill
you this morning as you pass through." This
was nothing new to  us, as we had been contin-
ually threatened through the whole journey,and
death and destruction seemed to await us daily.
This day we  only traveled about fifteen miles;
one wagon broke  down, and the wheels run off
from  others,  and  there  seemed  to  be  many
things  to  hinder  our progress, although  we
strove with  all diligence to  speed our way for-
ward. Our  intentions were, when we started,
to go through to Clay County that day; but all
in vain.
	"This night we  camped on an elevated piece
of land  between  two branches  of the Fishing
River. Just  as  we  halted  and  were  making
preparations for the night, five men rode into
the camp and told us we should see h--l before
morning, and such horrible oaths as came from
their  lips I never  heard before. they told us
that  sixty men were  coming  from  Richmond
who had sworn to destroy us;  also seventy more
were eoming from Clay County, to assist in our
destruction. These  men were  black with  pas-
sion and armed with guns, and the whole coun-
try was in a rage  against  us, and  nothing  but
the  power  of  God  could  save  us.  All  this
time the weather was  fine and pleasant. Soon
after these  men  left  us we  discovered a small
black  cloud  rising  in  the west, and  not more
than twenty minutes  passed away before it be-
gan to  rain and hail, but we had very little of
the hail in  our  camp;  all  around  us  the hail
was heavy. The  thunders  rolled  with  awful
majesty, and  the red  lightnings flashed through
the  horizon, making  it  so  light  that  I could
see  to pick  up a pin  almost  any time through
the  night; the  earth  quaked  and  trembled,
there being no cessation; it seemed as though
the Almighty had issued forth his mandate of 
vengeance. The  wind  was  terrible. Many
trees were blown  down, and others twisted and
wrung  like  a withe. The  mob  came  to the
river two miles from us, but the river had risen
to that height that they wers  obliged to stop
without crossing  over.  The  hail fell so heavy
upon them  that it beat holes in their hats, and
in  some  instances  even  broke  the  stocks  off
their  guns. Their  horses  fled,  leaving  their
riders  on  the  ground; their  powder was wet,
and it was evident the Almighty fought in our
defense; This night the river raised forty feet.
In the morning I went to the river, in company
with  Brothers  Joseph  Smith,  Hyrum  Smith,
Brigham  Young  and  others, as  we  had  it in
contemplation to proceed  that morning to Lib-
erty, Clay  County;  but we  could not continue
our  journey as  there was no way to cross the
river, it  was  then  overflowing  its  banks;  pre-
vious  to  this  rain  falling it was no more than
ankle deep; such  a  time  was  never  experi-
enced  by  us  before. Still  we  felt  calm  all
night and the Lord  was with  us. The  water
was ankle  deep  to  us  all night, even on that
eminence, so we could not sleep. *  *  *
The next day when we moved into the country
we  saw that  the  hail had destroyed the crops,
and that it had come in  some directions  within 
a mile, and in other directions within half a 
mile of our camp.  *  *  We went a distance
of five  miles  on  a  prairie  to  get food for our-
horses, and also to get some provisions for our-
selves, and to get into some  secure place where
we could defend ourselves from the rage of the
enemy. We stayed there  three  or  four  days,
until the rage  of  the  people was  somewhat al-
layed. 
		To be Continued.


The Prince of Wales' sons are receiving
thirty-seven and a half cents per day for their
services in the British navy, and it is believed
that the navy pays for all it gets.

	It might have been expected from Massa-
chusetts, but it has been done in Ohio. The
"Woman's Garfield and Arthur Club, No. 1"
has organized in Cincinnati with forty members
from among the best society in the city.


