REFLECTIONS UPON THE PROCESSION.

	What do I hear? Music, yes, and see the pro-
cession is on the move. What a charming
sight when compared with the entrance of the pio-
neers 33 years ago to day; dusty and wayworn; yet
with hearts beating high and eyes brightened
with love to Israel's God whose hand had brought
them safely through. And this the result of 33
years improvement.
	Never shall I forget the tears of joy starting from
our eyes at the first sight of Great Salt Lake as
we saw it from the top of yon high mountain. It
looked like a peaceful quiet resting place upon its
shores; for we were told by the pioneers as we
met them at Pacific spring that this would be
our home. We had been traveling two and a half
months with ox teams, carrying grain to put in
a fall crop, which was soon accomplished when
we found our place of destination.
	Nor is this all,seven times seven years in pros-
perity have passed away since the Lord restored
the Everlasting Covenant; preparatory to His
second coming. Do you ask is this without trials?
I answer, No. Yet in our most severe trials, we
could go to God our Father for wisdom, and learn
that it was all for our best good. Thus our af-
flictions were sanctified to us, and greater intel-
ligence given; so that the wound was healed and
we went on our way rejoiceing. Hard indeed to
lose our prophet; but was not the same intelli-
gence given to twelve others to carry on the
work. Also in the case when five hundred men
were called to go to the Mexican war. This
seemed [-]o much to a traveling community, try-
ing to find a resting place. But what was the
result? This land belonged to Mexico, and when
a treaty was made, were we not entitled to
homes in these valleys? Most certainly. In this
again we saw our Father's hand. This is but one
instance of the many. But whose carriages are
these with beautiful black horses? Oh! I see! The
faithful and true! the veterans of the day. Faith-
ful in what, do you ask? Faithful to their God
and their country. Faithful in preaching the
Gospel to the nations of the earth, and also faith-
ful to all that is committed to their care. Rut
they are not the only ones imitating our Savior
whose name was the faithful and true.
	The mothers of Israel follow in deeds of love
and kindness to husbands and sons and
finally to all who need their kindness not
only at home, but also in form of Relief So-
cieties. Behold their banner! Also the carriage
of industry, with machines for kniting and sew-
ing, straw braiding, reeling silk, crochet, &c.,
&c., well calculated to make our home pleasant.
The Sabbath Schools also, with cherub faces look-
ing so heavenly. God bless the children!
	But what is this rude cabin of logs, covered
with dirt, and chimney of mud. This repre-
sents our former homes in this valley. Were we
ever happy in such rude structures? Oh, yes;
[---] were all on the same footing, looking forward
[---] [---] days. How often could you hear the
m[---] [---] and joyous ex[-]ressions of love and
hope in these miserable looking houses. Not only
so, [--] [--] morning and evening prayer arose
with songs of thanksgiving for this quiet resting
place. What come next? A mansion, with
tall steps, large windows and lace curtains, rep-


resenting the present times. But are we more
happy now than in the log hut? That will de-
pend entirely upon the spirit we cultivate.
	But to continue with our mechanical skill.
What can I say? Language cannot express the
artistic beauty and grandeur of the scene! And
we feel to say, if so much has been done in this
short period of time, what will the next thirty-
three years bring to us? One thing let us re-
member; it is this; let us not become idolators
over the workmanship of our own hands. But
let us remember the Author of all our blessings.
He who has upheld and sustained us thus far,
will enable us to endure to the end of the race,
if we do not forget Him. It is written that the
wicked shall be turned into hell with all the na-
tions who forget God. And have we not seen
this verified many times when people became
absorbed in the affairs of life; they seemed to
forget that God was the Great Master Workman,
standing at the head of all science—and our kind
Father to instruct and guide us. Let us never
forget God, the Author of all blessings.


Gen. Garfield is not a Woman Suffragist in
the sense of mere wordy declaration, but while
in Congress he voted to allow a woman to prac-
tice law before the Supreme Court of the
United States; and one such act is worth a
thousand glittering generalities.—Ex.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop Hunter’s old residence, between Z. C. M.
I. and the National Bahk.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

