REPORTS.

	On August 19 we celebrated the anniversary
of our organization in Peoa, and had a very
enjoyable time. Assembled at the meeting
house at ten A. M., which was tastefully deco-
rated for the occasion by the President of the
Y. L. M. I. A., with some of the members of
the same to assist her. Opening exercises. Roll
called; fifty-one members present. Minutes of
last meeting read and accepted. Report read
and accepted. Four girls and two boys sang
"The Happy Mormons." Questions on the
first principles of the Gospel, to which the
children gave very prompt answers. Thirteen
little boys and girls repeated alphabetical texts.
Six girls and three boys sang "In our lovely
Deseret." Dialogue by two little boys, entitled,
"The boy that wore old clothes." Ten little
girls and six boys sang, "I've two little hands
to work for Jesus." Three boys and three
girls repeated the first twelve verses of the


5th chapter of St. Matthew. Several of the
children recited short pieces. A dialogue by
two little girls, entitled, "What two little girls
could do."
	At noon we had recess for one hour, when
they were regaled with cake, candy and lemon-
ade. Rewards of merit were distributed. Both
young and old enjoyed themselves exceedingly;
all were well satisfied.
	Annual report of Peoa Primary Association:
Our Association was organized by Peoa Relief
Society, by order of our worthy Stake President,
Mrs. Sarah S. Richards, on August 19, 1879, with
the following officers: Mrs. Lydia Marchant,
President; Mrs. Elizabeth Maxwell and Mrs.
Anna Marchant, Counselors Miss Rhoda P.
Huffaker, Secretary; Miss lydia Newman,
Assistant Secretary, and Master Levi Pearson,
Treasurer; since which time we have endeav-
ored to the best of our ability to do all we
could to improve the children committed to
our charge. We hold our meetings weekly;
the exercises consist of select readings, ques-
tions on the principles of the Gospel, Scripture
passages and any good principles by way of
impressing it on their young minds, recitations
by the children. We have enrolled sixty-six
names; average attendance, twenty-eight. Do-
nated to the Temple, $1, 80.
	Our Bishop was present with one of his
counselors, S. Walker, and addressed the meet-
ing for a short time, encouraging the sisters
and parents to do all they could to stimulate
the children to be punctual in their attendance;
was pleased to meet with so many children,
and was also pleased with the progress they
were making; hoped they would be good chil-
dren; and if so, in a future day they would be
very glad they had ever belonged to the PRI-
MARY.
	By request two young ladies sang a gipsy
song. Meeting closed by singing, "The tide of
time is ebbing low." Benediction, S. Walker.
									L. M.


Report of the meeting held in Mt. Pleasant
Sanpete Co., Aug. 7th, 1880. At 10 A. M.
Opened with singing "The Morning Breaks"
prayer by C. W. Lund, singing "We to the
Lord will pray. Sister Morrison then intro-
duced Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and E. B.
Wells to the congregation and said she felt
glad beyond expression to have that privilege,
and hoped that good order would be observed
so that all would be benefitted by the rich in-
structions she felt would be given.
	Sister Wells said she felt glad to meet with
the sisters of this place said it is such a beauti-
ful day and your surroundings here are more
than pleasant, no doubt you have worked hard
to make your city what it is: there is much for
us all to do and to learn, and we should strive
to imitate everything that is good, noble and
pure. The Saints are building temples which
is one great step in advance to be done for our
dead,it will be a mighty work. Sisters if trials
come along try to bear them patiently, keep
them to yourselves and the Lord, do not take
others into your confidence, for that will not
make you feel better but you will always be
sorry afterwards that you have done so.
Showed that trials were necessary to bring us
near to God. She thought that we should
teach our children all that which is good, noble
and virtuous, said it is necessary that they as
well as we should know good from evil, that
they may be able to withstand temptation when
the powers of darkness beset them. Mothers
never let pass an opportunity to teach your
children the principles of our holy religion: if
it should be that your circumstances were such
that you could give them no other education,
than home education, this Gospel will enable
them to make wise men and women. There
has not been so much done in the way of
spiritual education in the past, as is now being


[Column 1]
accomplished, but let us improve every oppor-
tunity in the future. The world is watching
closely and wondering if the rising genration
will honor the Holy Priesthood and bear off
the kingdom of God as the older ones have
done; they are also wondering if our sons and
daughters will sustain and practise plural
marriage as their mothers and fathers have.
Now it is for you mothers to teach them this
principle and above all to show them a good
example. Said, Sister E. R. Snow has pub-
lished a Hymn Book expressly for the Primary
Organizations, it is a neat little work mostly of
her own poems, and urged the mothers to
procure these books for their children.
	Sister E. R. Snow then addressed the con-
gregation: Said she thought it no ordinary
position for her to arise to address an assembly
of Latter-day Saint women—was always happy
to meet with her sisters, and felt truly thank-
ful to see some of the brethren present. Al-
though she did not propose or presume to edify
the brethren she knew it to be very encourag-
ing to the sisters when the brethren manifested
an interest in our labors by occasionally at-
tending our meetings. When they are present,
instead of feeling greater timidity, she felt
more safety in speaking, trusting that if she
said anything wrong, those holding the priest-
hood would correct her, which she would thank-
fully receive.
	Not one of us can truthfully say, "I have
obeyed the Gospel." When we were baptized,
we commenced obedience, but to obey the
Gospel of Jesus Christ, requires the diligent
work of our mortal lives, with the heart, mind
and strength, wholly devoted to the interest of
Zion. I realize, that if I obey the Gospel it
will require all my powers and faculties de-
voted to the work of God while I live in the
flesh, and how much will be required beyond
the veil, is not for me to say.
	We should all realize that we are here on
missions, and, in order to fill these missions, it
is necessary that we so live as to keep the spirit
of  God constantly in our hearts, and that will
direct us step by step, until we shall have ac-
complished the work assigned us.
	Sister Eliza said, the Prophet Joseph Smith
instructed the sisters, whom he organized  into
a Society, that wherever the Church of Jesus
Christ had been fully organized, the sisters
were also organized. Reference is made to
this subject, in the New Testament, but we did
not comprehend it until God revealed it
through his prophet. God in his wisdom, has
given us the great privilege of organizations
from  the oldest member down, almost to the
child in the mother's arms. Said, none of the 
trials and persecutions we have passed through
have been as dangerous, as is the spirit of the
times in which we now live.
	Mothers  do you realize the importance of 
the early training of your children? What can
be of so much consequence to parents than that
their children shall be so cultivated as to grow
up to be men and women of God? The Primary
organizations are designed to assist the mothers
in their most responsible duties in this direc-
tion, and mothers should not think their work
at home more important, than sending their 
children to the Primary meetings. It is neces-
sary that you, mothers, cooperate with those
who are spending their time and devoting their 
energies in the cultivation of the rising genera-
tion. Encourage them by occasionally attend-
ing their meetings, and you will be astonished
at the progress and improvemeet of your little
ones. The "civilization" of the world, which
is a spirit of corruption is creeping in among us,
and it will require all the protection that can
be imparted by filling their minds with good, so
there will be no place for evil—not only should 
the children understand the principles of the
Gospel, but they must have its spirit in their
hearts.

[Column 2]
	She again spoke of the Relief Society: said,
when Joseph Smith first organized it, he said
our "duties were not only to look after the
poor, but to save souls." Said, she considered
the position of Teacher a highly responsible
one, and its duties very important. Some
ignorant persons seem to consider it a begging
calling, but they are not expected to ask for
donations unless they are specially sent to col-
lect means for some special purpose—it is gen-
erally understood that the poor are sustained
by donations, that if the sisters have anything
to impart, they give without being asked, and
although assisting the poor, and administering
to  the sick are the first duties, they are not the 
most important. To properly fulfill her duties,
a Teacher needs the Holy Ghost, that when
she enters a home, she may know what spirit
prevails there; and then she needs the wisdom
of God, that she may benefit those she meets:
Are any sorrowful, that she may administer
comfort, or if they have "lost their first love"
and become indifferent to their eternal interest,
take them by the hand and by imparting
the kind and sweet influence of her own bosom,
lead them back,
	Our organizations are designed for our culti-
vation—to help us on in the road to perfection,
they also place us in positions to be great helps
to the Priesthood.
	Sister Eliza said that Sister Wells had men-
tioned a very important subject. Celestial
Marriage, which, instead of debasing is elevat-
ing to woman. Whatever purifies, is ennobl-
ing, and to live plural marriage as we should
we have to enlarge our hearts—overcome the
inherited narrow contractedness of our nature
—subdue our selfishness and become more God-
like. She bore a strong testimony to the fact
that God had revealed it and required its
practice.
	She exhorted the mothers to watch over their
daughters, and be watchful to protect their pur-
ity. Said,if you want your daughters to become
noble and useful in their sphere, in the first
place, like Queen Victoria, teach them to be-
come good and efficient housekeepers, with "a
place for everything, and everything in its
place." Unless they know how to cook, when
they employ help, their servants will be sure to 
take advantage of their ignorance.
	She spoke encouragingly of silk culture, and
urged the people to promote it, and be in ear-
nest in forwarding Home Manufactures of  all
kinds, that we might become a self-sustaining
people. Exhorted the sisters to attend their 
meeting, said, you will make more in doing so,
than you will in staying at home. Yet I never
counsel mothers to leave their children unpro-
tected for any meeting. Your children should
be your first care—bring them with you, and
they cultivate early the habit, and they will be
punctual attendants when they grow up. In
attending meetings, if we are humble and
prayerful, we are sure to get refreshings from
above, the influence of which is carried to our
homes, home is made happier. Let no one
grow weary in well doing, but let us all  be
learning day by day; little by little, overcom-
ing our own weaknesses, and short-comings
until we attain to perfection.
	Bishops Seely and Madsen made some ex-
cellent remarks and felt instructed with what
had been said and thankful to the Sisters for
this visit. Sister Morrison then made some
closing remarks hoped that all present would
profit by the rich instructions given by our
Sisters, lay it up in our hearts and practice it
in our daily lives. Thanked the Sisters with
all her heart for their visit. Meeting adjourned
until 2, P. M., our Primaries met according to 
appointment, about three hundred small child-

[Column 3]
ren were present,when Sister E. R. Snow talked
to them in such a good motherly spirit and
created such feelings in their young and tender
hearts as will never be eradicated. She then
organized the South Ward. Officers, Ida
Caroline Larsen, President; Clementine Marion
Morrison; Clara Olson, Counselors; George
Christiansen; Secretary; Annie H. Peterson,
Treasurer. Meeting dismissed with singing
and prayer by. Bishop Wm. S. Seely.
	At 4, P. M., meeting was again called  to
order by Sister E. B. Wells who then organized
the North Ward. Officers, Mary Rowe, Presi-
dent; Matilda Neilson, Hannah C. Madsen;
Counselors; John Dehlin, Secretary; Charles
Edward Hampshire, assistant Secretary; Caro-
line Madsen, Treasurer. After a few salutary
remarks from our Bishops, meeting closed with
singing and prayer by Bishop Peter Madsen.
	M. F. C. MORRISON, Prest.
