THE SENTIMENT OF DUTY.

	Every mother in Israel, every true woman,
should keep constantly before her, and ever in
her soul, the sentiment of duty, for it is the
crowning virtue that adorns the human soul.
It is a bright, radiant star, that will light and
brighten our paths, no matter how dark and
gloomy may be the way: it is as a bright gem,
that leads us on to happiness, peace and joy;
it is a beacon light, set out in bold relief in the
heavens, to beckon us onward and upward, out
of the depths of misery and sin, into the realms
of light and goodness; it is a true guide to no-
bility and fame, and those who follow its ad-
monitions are the noblest, purest, best persons,
on the face of the earth. To me there is no-
thing so fair and grand, as integrity and the
sentiment of duty, which if we will only allow
it to do so, will dwell in our hearts forever, a
living fountain of pure and noble thoughts, and
create there an unbounded wealth of peace,
contentment and joy, which will endure while
life lasts.
	O, how great an influence it has upon those
who will listen to its warnings and obey its
pleadings, for it is ever vigilant; the moment
we are tempted to do wrong it is near us, show-
ing us the better way; if we seem to forget which
is the path for us to pursue, it will ever appear,
and point it out to us. It will show us, if we
are not blinded by sin, the calm, tranquil peace
to be found, by obeying its mandates, and when
we have overcome and followed its counsel,
there is no joy or satisfaction that will equal
that which will be ours. Truly there is no
greater virtue than firmness and determination
in carrying out the dictates of our consciences,
and those who possess this spirit of determina-
tion will not be drones in the hive; idlers, par-
taking of the fruit of the laborer, but, instead,

[Column 2]
bright and shining lights in the kingdom of
God. They are the women who will be found
valiant and true, never shrinking from the
paths of duty, but, when the way seems thorny
and dark, they will be striving and dauntless,
and their actions will so brighten the pathway
of life, that others who had fallen by the way-
side, discouraged, will arise, and with renewed
vigor, resume the journey of life.
	There is no subject more worthy of the con-
templation, and thorough study of the young
women of Zion, than this one, for she who lives,
acts and speaks from an enlightened conviction
of duty, exerts a strong moral influence over
all who associate with her, and she will have
many friends, for her life will be so pure and
benevolent, that the good will gather round
her to enjoy the sunshine of her noble nature,
and all will feel her influence for good. She
can bless without an effort; she will be truth-
ful, simple-hearted and reliable; she is only to
know what is right, to be ready to engage in
it; every action will be an example of integrity,
and the joy of performing the labors which her
sentiment of duty has pointed out.
	If all young women would only be guided by
the strictest ideas of duty, there would be no
more dens of infamy,no more worshipers at the
shrine of fashion, no more idle giddy devotees
of folly and worldly pleasure, for it will ever
guide the mind to something more grand and
good; it will breathe into our being a love of
the Divine, and a desire to draw nearer to our
Father, to do his sublime will. and partake of
his eternal, unchanging love.
	Piety sanctifies all the other virtues of the
soul, and sheds the balmiest, purest, sweetest
joy over our hearts, that we ever feel in this
life. No character is complete without it, and
no heart that is devoid of piety can enjoy per-
fect happiness; but she, whose soul has been
baptized by its holy influence, and imbued
with its sweet,heaven-born principles, is indeed
happy and in her joy is no alloy.
