CONTESTED.

	We publish in this issue some particulars con
cerning the attempt recently made to take the
suffrage from the women of this Territory. All
at once these "wise men of Gotham" have de-
clared the law conferring the franchise upon
woman null and void, so positively, that they per-
emptorily order the names of certain women and
all other women to be erased from the registra-
tion list. The Supreme Court issue a writ of
mandamus to enforce this demand. Is it not a
grave reflection upon these legal gentlemen so
thoroughly acquainted with matters pertaining
to legislation, and the construction of law, to
have passed over in silence a matter which has
been so loudly talked of everywhere its merits
and demerits so extensively discussed, and have
allowed to remain a law for ten years without a
demur,and now to emphatically declare as Judge
Sutherland did in his argument on Wednesday
evening last, "We deny the validity of the act
giving women the right to vote." According to
this positive statement women here have never
cast a lawful ballot? Of what inconsistency will
they accuse women next? In the name of reason
and justice we would ask as Mrs. Blake did at
a convention at which we were present "why
don't you take women to the end of the world
and jump them off?"
	One of the principal features of the objections
urged by the plaintiff's lawyers was that the law
of 1870, now in question, did not require women
to pay taxes, and consequently stamped the act
as special legislation; and as the act of 1859 pro-
hibited any male from voting unless he was a
tax payer, that was general legislation, and the
two conflicted, but were not contradictory. This
question about tax paying seems to be a disease
with men, and yet they know that every woman
who holds any property whatever in her own
right is required by law to pay taxes, and that
thousands of women, both wives and widows,
pay taxes in this Territory. Poll tax is the only
tax from which they are exempt, that we are
aware of, and all this furore about a privileged
class of voters, is all bosh and nonsense.
	There were several interesting points in the
arguments, which are of great consequence to
all who have the vital question of woman suf-
frage at heart. We shall publish all the argu-
ments made, in full, in our next issue, October
15, as the paper was nearly ready for the press
when the question which involves woman's right
to vote was raised.
	Meanwhile, we would say, this is not the time
for men or women to sleep upon their oars, but
watch the enemy's rank and file well, and never
lose an opportunity to defend the right. Let
those who wish to maintain civil and religious
liberty, stand firm in the hour of danger, and

[Column 2]
trust in the living God, Who knows the secrets
of all hearts.
	The defense affirm that the Supreme Court
has not the power to issue mandamus. If this
demurrer could be strenuously maintained, then
those who are so anxious to do away with women
voters would have to raise some other question,
or attack from another quarter. But it is to be
hoped the women will give the enemy "no quar-
ter," and they will be obliged to succumb to a
law which has been practised and observed for
ten years, and which is calculated, in the very
nature of things, to foster good institutions and
practises, promote industries among the people,
elevate society, and eventually lift woman to a
much higher plane than that enjoyed by her in
the past.
	We attended the sitting of the Court on Thurs-
day afternoon, according to adjournment from
Wednesday evening, when the arguments were
made upon the merits of the question, but Chief
Justice Hunter explained that the Court was
not prepared to render a decision in the case of
mandamus, and therefore the court adjourned,
without transacting any business, until four
o'clock p. m. to-day.
	We have no idea what the legal opinion in
this matter will be, but we know that woman's
cause is in the hands of a higher tribunal than
that of a Supreme Court, and that it will contin-
ally triumph over every obstacle that prejudice,
tradition, envy or malice may place in the way
of woman's advancement and political equality.
"Man proposes, God disposes."


[Column 1]
