EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. II. FEBRUARY, 1915. No. 2. There is no one fact more deeply impressed upon the mind of a philosopher than the combined independence and helplessness of man. His will and Human his partial control of the forces about him, makes Independence. him supremely independent of most earthly conditions; while his natural human limitations make him blindly dependent upon his fellow men and upon the natural forces around him. He can do many great and marvelous things ? build ships, fly in the air, and speak around the earth, and yet, how helpless he is to prevent death or disaster which come to his enterprises by the flit of an eye-lash, or the point of a bodkin. We are told by James (5:16, 17) that "the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much." Divine The power of Elias with the heavens was so great, Aid to that through one sincere prayer, rain ceased for Man. three years; and through his second appeal, the earth was visited plentifully by the rains of heaven. The power of faith is not always manifested in a sudden response to ardent prayer; it is more often shown in the persistent clinging to that prayer, until the desire shall have plowed its deep channel through the convolutions of the human brain, 
 thus becoming a part of the individual. Such persisting faith makes a pathway over which the desired object may travel from heaven to earth. Such was the powerful faith of Joseph, who was sold into Egypt, and Pharaoh believed him through seven years of plenty. How much greater the faith and endurance of one frail woman of modern times have been in the mission of Grain Saving, which was given to President Emmeline B. Wells by Brigham Young over forty years ago! It is not so much that the Relief Society has saved millions of bushels of grain in the last forty years; nor that the California sufferers, the Chinese starving millions, The and our own poor were aided in times of want by Lesson this wonderful movement; it is not so much that Taught. one tender-hearted woman has proved to God and man that she can exercise persistent faith through a long life of disheartening conditions and through years of struggle and sacrifice; it is not that women have gleaned and saved, have bought and sold, have listened and obeyed; nay, it is all these combined which make of the Grain-saving Movement one of the most unique enterprises in this Church. In saving grain, many a woman has saved her own soul through thrift and obedience to the Priesthood. Little children have been taught lessons, not only of thrift and economy, but that larger lesson of obedience to counsel which has grown out of the obedience of mother to the Relief Society President, of Relief Society President to the Prophet of the Lord, and in and through this the obedience of the child to the mother, and of the wife to the husband. We may count the bushels of grain. We may number the years, we may value the wheat in terms of money and weight, but who shall estimate the power and glory of this matchless mission to President Emmeline B. Wells, and her associates, in the Relief Society of this Church? Hats off, ye men, everywhere; stand with bowed heads, ye women, while the little children crowd about your knees to listen in reverent awe to the simple story of a woman who went out harvesting, to glean and to save the wheat that the poor might be fed, and the people learn obedience. Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Lesson II ? The Law of Faith. (a) Faith the First Requirement. (b) Faith is the Foundation of All Righteousness. (c) The Component Parts of Faith. (d) Faith Must be Genuine. QUESTIONS. Which is more important, faith or works? What can you say of the Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine and Covenants? Recite the parable of the mustard seed. What is the difference between credulity and faith? What relation does hope sustain to faith? What can you say of belief? What is the difference between faith and knowledge? What constitutes genuine faith? Repeat the Articles of Faith. The First Requirement. ? Faith, not repentance, is the first requirement of the Gospel. The probable reason why Peter omitted to mention faith at that time, was because he perceived that the multitude already had faith, already believed what he had told them of the crucified Redeemer. Had it been otherwise, they would not have been "pricked in their heart," and would not have anxiously inquired, "What shall we do?" Belief was the first requirement made by the Savior, through his chosen twelve, when he sent them "into all the world" to "preach the gospel to every creature" (Mark 16:16). He declared salvation dependent on faith and works: "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned." For faith is shown by works (James 2:18), and each is dead without the other. The Foundation of All Righteousness. ? Faith, according to the Doctrine and Covenants, is "the first principle in revealed 
 religion, and the foundation of all righteousness." There are few things more lucid in our literature than the Lectures on Faith which form the fore part of that sacred volume ? one of the four doctrinal standards of the Church; the other three being the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and the Pearl of Great Price. (Read Doc. and Cov., Lectures I and II.) Faith Fundamental. ? God made faith the first principle of the gospel, because that is its proper place. It is the bottom round in the ladder of salvation, the first step in the stairway to perfection. "All things are possible to them that believe." "As A Grain of Mustard Seed." ? When the Savior spoke of the faith that "removes mountains," he was not measuring, either satirically or hyperbolically, the quantity of the faith by the size of the mustard seed. He probably meant that if man would obey the divine law given for his government, as faithfully as the mustard seed obeys the divine law given for its government, he would have infinitely more power than he now possesses. How difficult it seems for man, "the noblest work of God," to live in obedience to the highest principles revealed from heaven for his guidance. Yet the earth, we are told, "abideth the law of a celestial kingdom, for it filleth the measure of its creation, and transgresseth not the law" (Doc. and Cov., 88:25). Faith and Credulity. ? Faith, in its incipient stages, may resemble at times mere credulity. The untutored savage who was told by one of the early settlers of New England that if he planted grass seed it would produce gunpowder, believed it, not yet having learned that the white man would lie. He therefore parted with his valuable furs, in exchange for some of the seed, showing that he had faith in the settler's word. But it did not bring the desired result. Faith, to be effectual, must be based upon truth, and though higher than reason, must have a reasonable foundation. The spirit of truth must inspire it. This was not the case with the poor, misguided Indian; he trusted in a falsehood and was deceived. But some good came of it. He ascertained the falsity of the settler's statement. His faith induced him to plant the seed, and though it did not produce gunpowder ? that being contrary to its nature ? it produced a growth of grass ? and a wiser Indian. Possibilities of Faith. ? Had the Indian's faith been properly founded ? had it been a perfect faith, intelligent, rational, heaven-inspired, he could have produced gunpowder or any other commodity from the all-containing elements around him; and that, too, without planting a seed or employing an ordinary process of manufacture. The turning of water into wine, the miraculous feeding of the multitude, the walking upon the waves, the healing of the sick, the raising of the dead, and other wonderful works wrought by the Savior, the apostles, and the ancient prophets ?