AUGUST 1967 * #8 iB. Be " > age to' BP H Powsitelin d's CLIFF DWELLING Peggy Tangren In this ancient house! Hear Shelling of corn dried on the ear And its crunching on a grinding stone. |! Am not alone, Voices are in every room. | hear a loom, A baby cry, a dog baying at the sky. From far below, Down in fields where farmers sow, A cloud is seen, and a water call Echoes from a sandstone wall Where bins are built for keeping grain Away from field mice and the rain. Mothers sew as they have. Always sewn, Though the thread be thong and the needle bone. The sun is cool, the shadows long On a homing trail, and the fathers' song Wings to the ledge, and on the edge Children lean to watch them come Up the ladders. Kneeling, some Blow the smoldering charcoal hot Under an earthen cooking pot. Ancient, empty, silent, and yet The walls of a home cannot forget. The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: illustrations: Pine-Fringed Lake at Naples, Maine Transparency by Eric M. Sanford Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Mesa Verde, Near Cortez, Colorado Photograph by Willard Luce Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 561 In the March 1967 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, Elder Gordon B. Hinckley enumerated four challenges and responsibilities of Relief Society activity to help us appreciate our opportunities. For the Relief Society Anniversary observance we used these challenges on beehives at each end of the serving table and the lapel pins we made for the sisters. Whenever it is my privilege to help in Relief Society activities, my Magazine affords great. Pleasure, while aiding me_ with innumerable suggestions and materials for inspiration. Linda Chambers Houston, Texas Please thank Mary Scopes for her lovely art work for my story ''Automation;" in the May issue of the Magazine. There are so many outstanding features in that issue that | am happy to be a part of it. | enjoyed the editorial "'Timeless Words" by Vesta P. Crawford. Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho |! Have just finished reading ''These Things Endure," by Alice Colton Smith (May 1967). It is beautifully written, encouraging, and article has much to offer to the women of the Church, wherever they may be. Grace F. Arrington Pacific Palisades, California The cover of the April Magazine is the epitome of spring. It makes my heart glad just to look at it. | loved the story by Sylvia Probst Young, ''And It Shall Be Given You."' It illustrates so clearly how we are often blind to our own weaknesses, and how prayer can help us find the strength to come to grips with them. Thank you for publishing stories such as this which give insight into problems we all have to face. Arlene Larsen Bascom Orem, Utah 562 inspiring: Such anThe Magazine has brought me closer to our Heavenly Father and his purposes. | am thankful for Relief Society and other Church organizations that help us to live full lives. | especially enjoyed the poem "'Inviolate,'' by Lael W. Hill (April frontispiece), the article 'Lake Country, England,"' (by Mabel Jones Gabbott), and "'The Patient Soul' (by Rose Openshaw). Each Magazine seems better than the last, and they are all effective missionary tools. Ruth E. Yashko Cocoa, Florida | have tried many of the recipes in the Magazine, and have found the one for "Dilly Bread' (June 1966) to be exceptionally good. I know the lesson ma: terials are divinely inspired, and the talents expressed in creative prose and poetry are rewarding to the many readers. | am particularly fond of the work of Eva Willes Wangsgaard; for she ably describes in many ways my feeings towards life and about life and living ''Over night's purple hill, tomorrows come to offer faith, new hope, another chance." Mary W. Stauffer: Nashville, Fennessee Editorial Note: Sister Wangsgaard passed away in April 1967, closing a lifetime of family devotion, loving service to neighbors and friends, and lasting literary achievement. | have been a member of. The Church for just over a year, and find great joy in attending Relief Society, and in reading the beautifully illustrated. Magazine which | receive monthly. | am secretary-treasurer in our ward Relief Society. Lris H. Cooper Hatfield, Herts., England 

The IReliet SOCICTY Magazine a aa > toms Seni ante a i ea = = Volume 54 August 1967 Number 8 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 564 The Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program Belle S. Spafford 569 Family Vacations Can Be Fun!   Part Il _ Lillian Y. Bradshaw 580 Our Garden Barbara Dowdle Fiction 574 Lost Summer Christie Lund Coles 588 Transfer Hazel Loomis 601 The Golden Chain Chapter 7 Hazel M. Thomson General Features 562 From Near and Far 583 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 584 Editorial: The Worth of a Grandmother Marianne C. Sharp 586 Notes to the Field: The Relief Society Annual General Conference 609 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 640 _ Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 594 Washcloth Slippers Mary J. Police 595 Thoughts on Life Angie Munson 596 Recipes for Venison Ann Andersen 598 Orchids in the Kitchen Elsie Sim Hansen 600 A Talent for Making Quilts and Coverlets Lesson Department 617 Spiritual Living Preparing for the Redemption of Zion Roy W. Doxey 623 Visiting Teacher Message Love a Way to Salvation Alice Colton Smith 624 Homemaking Family Protection Insurance Celestia J. Taylor 627 Social Relations ''And Also By Faith' Alberta H. Christensen 632 Cultural Refinement ''Honesty, a Measure of Life' Bruce B. Clark Poetry 561 Cliff Dwelling Peggy Tangren The Melody Lark, Vilate R. McAllister 568; In Marshy Places, Gladys Hesser Burnham 579; Summer, Cynthia Trunnell 579; Remembering Late Summer, Caroline Eyring Miner 582, Daybreak, Alda L. Brown 586; Bright Begonias, Bernice Ames 592; In the Midst of Summer, Mabel Jones Gabbot 593; The Postman   Modern Pied Piper, Pearle M. Olsen 597; The Warp of a Perfect Day, Bertha A. Kleinman 597; Time, Dixie Randall Oveson 599; In a Greenhouse, Sudie Stuart Hager 608; Lattice for Love, Vesta N. Fairbairn 636; Unknown Heights, Lois M. Anderson, 640. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.   1967 by the Retief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 563  

The Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program Belle S. Spafford General President of Relief Society Vee ee le Eki ehhh ae a 4x   [Address Delivered in the Tabernacle at Welfare Meeting, April 7, 1967]   My dear brothers and sisters: the Brethren have kindly invited me to speak on the role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program as viewed by the General Presidency of Relief Society. The Prophet Joseph Smith, who, through inspiration of the Lord, established the Society, made clear that one of its basic purposes was "'to relieve the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes." He admonished the sisters that they were "not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." Experience has taught us the close correlation between sound practices in relieving the poor and the saving of souls. The Prophet further said: "This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence." And, indeed, it is within the nature of womankind to give loveinspired, benevolent service. For one and one quarter centuries the sisters of Relief Society have walked along the path laid out by the Prophet Joseph Smith and redefined by the Presidents of the Church who have succeeded him. 564 Their tender, compassionate services to those in distress have been manifold. Relief Society has adopted the motto: "Charity never faileth." The meaning which we attach to the word "charity," however, is not that which the world has come to accept. To us charity is the expression of unselfish love which builds up and strengthens not only the physical, but the spiritual in our people, and helps the individual and the family to realize their full potentials. The term 'welfare' also has special meaning for us, differing from the connotation presently attached to it by the world. We accept the true meaning of the word ''welfare" as a state of faring or doing well. It is a condition of health, prosperity, happiness; a condition of well-being achieved through living according to the teachings of the Church. With reference to this, we are reminded of the words of King Benjamin: And behold, all that he requires of you is to keep his commandments; and he has promised you that if ye would keep his commandments ye should prosper in the land; and he never doth vary from that which he The Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program hath said; therefore, if ye do keep his commandments he doth bless you and prosper you (Mosiah 2:22). President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in outlining measures for our se-~ curity and welfare, said: ''First, and above and beyond everything else, let us live righteously, fearing God and keeping his commandments, that we may claim his blessing as of right and not as of mercy only." The meaning which we attach to the term "welfare" greatly enlarges the scope of Relief Society welfare services, encompassing many activities not ordinarily regarded as welfare activities. It influences our approaches, our procedures, our goals in helping people. It brings to our services the spirit and the blessings of the Lord. In all of its activities, Relief Society works under the guidance and direction of the Priesthood. The Prophet Joseph Smith instructed the sisters in the beginning: "You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church." This directive, of course, would be meticulously applied to its welfare services, which are among its most important activities. Through the years, as Relief Society has pursued its tender, merciful ministration, it has been able also effectively to meet the special requirements brought about by the differing circumstances of each succeeding era. The Nauvoo period was characterized by the administration of direct temporal relief. In this, the sisters were supported by the Prophet, who, at the founding meeting of the Society, after contributing a $5 gold piece, stated, "All I shall have to give to the poor, I shall give to this Society." ~ It was during the Nauvoo period that a necessity committee was formed, which was the beginning of our present extensive visiting teaching program. The primary purpose of this committee was, "to search out the poor and suffering to call on the rich for aid and thus as far as possible relieve the wants of all." Today, the visiting teaching program has taken on a new dimension as a resource of the bishop in obtaining, through the Relief Society ward president, either at the ward council meeting or the ward welfare meeting, significant information relative to the attitudes, circumstances, and needs of families, revealed to visiting teachers during their visits to the homes. This information becomes of value to the home teachers as they coordinate the efforts of Priesthood quorums and auxiliary organizations, under the direction of the bishop, in activating all family members, and in assisting them toward welfare, or well-being. The quality and extent of the visiting teaching service today is heartening. The annual report for 1966, which has just been compiled, shows that in the one-year period, approximately five million visits were made to Latterday Saint homes by faithful Relief Society visiting teachers. What a vast reservoir of valuable information this is to bishops of the Church in exercising watchcare over Latter-day Saint families! With the inauguration of the 565 August 1967 Church Welfare Plan, the Relief Society was relieved of administering direct temporal relief and of maintaining a separate charity account, and the Society became strictly a service organization. Its services, however, were expanded in a number of ways. The sisters were called upon more fully to devote their time to caring for members of the ward family. Emphasis was placed on training them to sew and cook and develop greater ability in all the arts of homemaking. With adroitness, mothers and other homemakers were taught how to get the most out of the means at their disposal. With consummate skill, mothers with special or more pronounced homemaking problems, were taught how to overcome these problems through the Relief Society homemaking meetings, and as often as deemed advisable, through special help in their individual homes. In addition, full support was given by the Society and its members to other facets of the Church Welfare Program as assigned to the Society by the Priesthood. Figures from our 1966 Annual Report reveal the nature and the extent of some of these services. During 1966, there were 100- 000 visits made to homes by ward Relief Society presidents at the direction of their respective bishops. These visits, made in the interest of the welfare of the family, followed the initial visit made by the bishop. In addition, 87,000 other contacts were made by ward Relief Society presidents as directed by their bishops. There were 765,000 hours contributed to welfare projects by 56,000 Relief Society members. There were 566 253,000 hours contributed by females receiving assistance. This, of course, was watched over and encouraged by Relief Society, as is the practice of having sisters who receive assistance make clothing for themselves and children, rather than to draw clothing from the bishop's storehouse made by some other sister. During 1966, there were 4,693 sisters who sewed for themselves and their families, most of whom were helped to do so by Relief Society. In addition, the sisters of Relief Society have done canning and have sewed clothing for storehouse distribution. They have given full support to the Deseret Industries by donating surplus items from their homes, and by shopping at the Deseret Industries stores. They have supported the Deseret Industries rag rug program, as well as the blanket factory, in disposing of surpluses. All of these services for the Church Welfare Program continue at present and will continue as long as the General Priesthood Welfare Committee so directs. May I call attention to the purposes of the Church Welfare Plan, once again, as printed in the Conference Report for October 1936, to which Bishop Vandenberg has already made reference? I quote from the First Presidency: Our primary purpose was to set up, in so far as it might be possible, a system under which the curse of idleness would be done away with, the evils of a dole abolished, and independence, industry, thrift and self respect be once more established amongst our people. The aim of the Church is to help the people to help themselves. Work is to be re-enthroned as the ruling principle of the lives of our Church membership (Conference Report, October 1936, page 3). The Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program Now, with regard to this and Relief Society, the dissolution of the curse of idleness; the dispelling of the attitude that it is all right to get something for noth- | ing; the establishment of the spirit of independence; the encouragement of industry and thrift, with their resultant self-respect; the need to glorify work as the ruling principle in the life of an individual, if he would be happy and _ productive  all of these have their beginnings in the attitudes, standards, and _ practices of the home. Indeed, the foundations of individual and family welfare are built in the homes. In a day when re-emphasis is being placed by the Church on the home as the training and governing center in the lives of family members, we must keep in clear focus the importance of the cardinal principles of human welfare as defined in the purposes of the Welfare Program, and the need for the home to meet its responsibilities toward them. Mothers are intimately involved in the attitudes and patterns of life adopted by their families in the homes. Relief Society, therefore, has the responsibility to guide, teach, and train the mothers in these fundamentals of good living. This, to me, is a vital welfare service of the Society. Relief Society is not a "load lifter' alone. It is also a great educational institution for women. It is clearly within the realm of Relief Society welfare to educate the sisters in the arts of homemaking, money management, home storage, thrift practices, legal responsibilities to insure protection and security for themselves and their families, and similar skills. Examples of a few of our homemaking lessons may be of interest to you: "Wise Spending, Happy Ending" "Don't Let Your Yearning Exceed Your Earning" "Family Budgeting From Early Marriage to Retirement" ""Wills Estate-Planning"' "Project Thrift" Mothers also need help in child guidance, including how to meet the need to provide opportunities for children to carry responsibility and to be productively employed. Children must be taught to value work through having incentives for doing it, and through joyfully participating in it. Emphasis needs to be placed on adequately preparing children for life through education and training in order that they may favorably compete in today's highly competitive society and live selfmaintaining, self-directing lives. Relief Society must also rally to the support of a mother whose child may be a threatened school dropout. Through our specialized welfare program, we have learned that a child often bolts school because he cannot keep up with his classes due to his inability to read well. Could not a Relief Society sister who is a schoolteacher, or possibly a retired schoolteacher, or some other sister competent in teaching, help by providing tutoring service for the child? Mothers must also be taught how to plan for fruitful days for themselves when family members are no longer with them, and also to prepare themselves for the so-called aging years by developing worthwhile interests that will engage their time and keep them active 567 August 1967 and productive. Otherwise, these aging years may become years of idleness and frustration. In addition to all of these services, it may be of interest to you that the Relief Society is assigned by the First Presidency responsibility for conducting for the Church specialized welfare services requiring license, such as the care of unmarried mothers, adoption services where needed, foster-home care for dependent or neglected children. Licensed agencies are presently maintained by the Church in Utah, Arizona, and Nevada. It is anticipated that we will go into Idaho in the near future. In the States where the Church does not maintain a license to render specialized services, we would be glad to offer guidance or counseling service if you wish to communicate with us. Relief Society presidents are cautioned against entering into adoption arrangements, since this is a specialized welfare service regulated by law. Relief Society's role in the Welfare Program of the Church is a broad and a continuing one. In discharging its responsibility, as directed by the Priesthood, the Society prospers, and the recipients of its service have cause to rejoice and pour forth blessings on its head, as was predicted by the Prophet Joseph Smith. I am grateful for the opportunity that we have to be associated with our Priesthood leaders in this very important aspect of Church work. (  THE MELODY LARK   Vilate R. McAllister In the sandbox the children are busy at play  | watch from my window wide-open today. It is springtime. The pear tree is lovely with bloom, And the lilacs contribute a heady perfume. From the maple tree suddenly bursts a sweet strain Of gladness, repeated again and again. The children are listening. Johnny says, ''Hark! | know who is singing: a Melody Lark!" "You mean a meadow lark, don't you?" ''Oh, no! It's a melody lark my Grandpa said so. One day we heard one while down in the park, And Grandpa said, 'Listen! A Melody Lark!' "' | smiled to myself at his childish mistake, As | answered the summons to dig and to rake. Entranced with his music, | worked until dark, S To the gay melody of the Melody Lark. PY 568 Family Vacations Can Be Funl (Continued from the July Magazine) Part II Lillian Y. Bradshaw tebe waaiiliaat To BRS Se PACKING BAGS Each of us was allowed a small zippered canvas bag in which to carry four weeks' supply of clothes. We had decided that "perma" pressed clothes were the only things to take, clothes we could wash and dry at a laundromat, and which would not need ironing. In addition to our clothing for travel, we prepared a Sunday bag for all. In this, each put a complete Sunday outfit for going to Sunday School and sacrament meeting. Each would be expected to remain in these clothes all day Sunday. The boys wore shoes that could be brushed to look nice for Sunday, and the girls were allowed a second pair of best shoes. This plan helped to keep that extra special feeling for the Sabbath, even while on vacations. <i me a -_ 4 Rue MR eenteco sh Pn a < a Lae ae oF The Peter Whitmer Home (Restored) Near Fayette, Seneca County, New York Before leaving, we called the Church offices to find the ad-~ dresses of several branches or wards where we might be the four Sundays we would be gone. Perhaps you would be interested in knowing why we all wore Hawaiian shirts that looked alike. One of the biggest reasons was that I could readily keep an eye on all the children. In large crowds this is a must. Also, the look-alike clothing would simplify our staying together on tours, for, without question, we would be allowed to go through as a group. Washing would be simplified, for the shirts could all be put into one batch, saving time and money at the laundromat. Also, for this reason, everyone selected white stockings boys and girls. All the bags were packed by Thursday, the day before we left. 569 August 1967 Friday morning we placed the bags in the front room in groups, so that each knew which he was responsible for while getting on and off the train. Even Tom had the responsibility of his own bag and Teddy bear. COOKING AND EATING All facilities and equipment were provided. However, because joy in vacationing depends on the ease with which meals can be prepared and dishwashing not become a burden, we planned to use paper plates and cups for every meal. These were not the dull, plain white paper plates, but gay, colorful ones. We bought them in small quantities so as to have many changes. We used my electric frying pan, only, for cooking. Otherwise, we depended on local fresh fruit and the different specialties of various communities to add zip and interest to the meals: shoo-fly pie from Pennsy]lvania, clam cakes from Cape Cod, lobster from Boston. Very, very good was the huge, deep, tart lemon pie we found in Palmyra, New York, as we awaited the beginning of the magnificent Mormon Pageant. At noontime we ate sandwiches and fruit. The cereal we bought for each morning was in small individual boxes of all varieties. The boxes we numbered from one to nine beforehand, and, as each called a number of his choice, he received the cereal box with the corresponding number. We chose boxes that were perforated for opening so that milk could be poured in and they could serve as dishes. After each meal, we had only the silverware to wash and 570 put away, and, occasionally, the frying pan. OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES Each of us was responsible for his own clothes being packed and put away each day, with dirty clothes being put into the duffel bag we brought for this purpose, and making his own bed and stowing away blankets. We could have the bus in shipshape order in thirty minutes, when on a tight schedule. Other chores were no problem. We simply worked as a team, with myself as the foreman for duties in the bus, and Blair as foreman for all duties outside the bus. Amazingly, we found Dick to be an excellent mechanic, and he finally took over all the details of hooking up the bus to the facilities when we needed to pull into a trailer court. Kathy was an inspiration to all, as she cheerfully, uncomplainingly, went about her duties, after spraining her ankle the first part of the trip. As well-planned as a trip can be, with children, may I prescribe the only medicine that really works: early to bed, early to rise, makes a trip more fun for the wise. BOOKS As we approached a particular site of interest, I would read to. The family a story telling of the events which took place there. The books we didn't have for a particular spot, we purchased and then read together. I purchased two cardboard milk cartons used for carrying four one half gallon bottles of milk. Books and maps fitted into them remarkably well and kept everything neat and orderly. We also took good, interesting, entertaining books for different levels of reading ability. Blair and I each took a copy of Those Who Love, by Irving Stone, the story of President John Adams and Abigail. This was an excellent background material for visiting Boston, Concord, Lexington, New York, and Philadelphia. An amazing reaction came over the children as we traveled. At first, for two days, they wandered through the bus and were irritable as we learned to live in close quarters, very much together, and without TV. After this period, they began to reserve these good books, with each in his turn "speaking for that book" next. Before the trip was over, each had read everything on the bus he could lay his hands on. Even Suzie challenged herself beyond her reading level. It was marvelous. Their contentment was contagious. It is a family tradition with us that on any trip I read to them all as they sit on their beds at night just before going to sleep. This book must be well-chosen and have high interest. May I suggest Where the Red Fern Grows, by Wilson Rawls, and Wrinkle in Time, by Madeleine L'Engle, as being two of the best books to keep all ages, even Dad, demanding "'just one more chapter." We'll always remember: The heavenly peace and quiet as we sat on the grassy slope overlooking the valley of Adam-ondiAhman. As a family, we still speak of it in reverent tones. Our unexpected swim at CraigFamily Vacations Can Be Fun ville Beach at Cape Cod almost upset the entire trip. We just wanted to see what it looked like, _and when we found the surf was heavy and white-capped, and the wind fairly whistling with glee, we almost tossed care to the wind and could have spent the remainder of the trip at the Cape. There was our enchantment as we watched the gulls early in the morning pluck their hermit crabs for breakfast from the ocean, and then fly over the hard pavement of the parking lot and, from a height of twenty to thirty feet, drop the shell so as to crack it, and then swoop down to devour the crab inside. The parking lot became such a clutter of shells that a mechanical sweeper was necessary to clear it off for the day. Sailing on a_ three-masted schooner named the "Spray" around Boston Harbor made Irving Stone's book Those Who Love come alive. The special tour by eerie moonlight, with the security officer, through stockade and dwellings of the first community in America at Jamestown, with the shadows and quiet rustling of the trees, made our skin creep at the thought of an Indian raid. With wonderment, we contemplated the Pilgrims traveling across the ocean on three small sailing boats. The walk around Walden Pond of Thoreau fame and the quiet of the woods as we slept overnight at Walden Breezes, Concord, Massachusetts, are memories to treasure. They had even greater meaning as I recalled to the children the Relief Society lesson I had heard, when the life of Thoreau and his thoughts, while 571 August 1967 writing at this beautiful spot, were taught. Early the next morning, with thick mist rising and sunrays just piercing through, we all felt as though lifted into another time and world, as we visited the Minute Man statue where the shot was fired that was "heard round the world,"' so long ago (from ''Concord Hymn," by Ralph Waldo Emerson). So much more to tell. We saw Monticello Thomas Jefferson's home, The White House, the Statue of Liberty, and it seemed that we were living briefly in the glorious early days of our country. The reverent feeling we had, as we stood beside a tree in the Sacred Grove a tree old enough to have been a witness when Joseph Smith saw God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ. Afterwards, at the testimony meeting in the Grove, a number of young girls who had come to take parts in the pageant told of their missionary experiences. I am overcome with sentiment as I remember my daughters whispering that this they wanted to do, also, someday. How grateful we were to have our books when we arrived five minutes too late to go on a tour of the Kirtland Temple. We lifted one another to see through the windows, and we had keen compassion for those who arrived too late to get in at the dedication over a hundred years ago. What a thrill to contemplate what it must have been like to be there then and know that Jesus Christ and angels once appeared in this building. We visited Peter Whitmer's farm, though the original home no 572 longer exists. I tremble to think we might have missed it. So much took place here, and in the woods and farm land surrounding this spot the supernatural help David Whitmer received with the farm work, as he prepared to go for Joseph and Oliver Cowdery in Harmony, the completion of The Book of Mormon, the organization of the Church in April 1830, the testimony of the three witnesses, and so much more. The excitement and interest of all were evident as we saw archeological students spading the earth at Brigham Young's and Wilford Woodruff's homes in Nauvoo, so that all would be as when they lived there. In visualizing another Williamsburg (Virginia) in Nauvoo, Illinois, as plans were unfolded, we felt we were seeing history being made. We saw Liberty Jail and Carthage Jail and thought of the tragic scenes enacted there, and the lasting imprint on Church history. By now this constant, repeated contact with history was no longer just another tour; it all began to make its impression. Places and buildings were no longer just stone and brick, but events of tremendous import. The trip, as wonderful and exciting as it was, had lasting effects upon the family as a whole and as individuals. We all grew in appreciation of our heritage, the beautiful country of the United States, and the good people everywhere. We had _ always thought it so; now we know it to be true. Now we know how dear each of us is to the others in the family. We took time and learned to listen to each other and learned of likes and dislikes. We laughed with one another over little things, and we found time and opportunity, as parents, to teach by actions true values honesty in paying for groceries, appreciation and courtesy for good in other cultures. Above all else, we had time to let one another know how deeply we felt about our country's heritage the men and women who loved freedom more than life, and then our very own heritage of men and women and children like ourselves who loved God so much they made it possible for us to return to Salt Lake City, to the home we love best, in a green valley surrounded by majestic mountains. Home   sweet, sweet home! NOTES A YEAR LATER 1967 Was it difficult to take the children on a vacation? Oh, my, yes very difficult. But each trip *  aie: & " ms See   'eae ar.   4 ' wi  4 eae oe wee A hae 2 F $ ae x % Capitol Building, Williamsburg, Virginia has 'had its rewards, and now, with this trip, those rewards are so great as to leave no doubts ever again   it was worth any effort. With a vacation came the concentrated view of all our teachings during the previous year. We became aware, keenly aware, of the many strengths in our children and ourselves. We saw the lessons taught in Family Home Evening bear fruit. The stature of our children opened boundless vistas. We saw them for the first time in many ways and loved and respected what we saw. They came back with an honest respect for one another's talents and a feeling of new confidence in their own abilities. To us has come a special warm feeling all wrapped up in the word family. Perhaps, because of this, we seem to have a greater understanding and deeper love for God and the gift he gave of his Son Jesus Christ. 573   Lucy Burt stood on the long porch of her white, weeping-rock house which stood on an incline and overlooked the valley. It was late summer and the intense heat had passed. The days simulated' summer, but the evenings whispered that autumn was closer than they liked to think. Most of the things she had wanted to do were still undone. She and John still had to take that camping trip to Flaming Gorge that they had planned since spring. A couple of groups had planned to get together, and hadn't because of the heat. There were a lot of other things to do, too, unless it was to be written off as a lost summer. Lucy looked toward the silver sliver of lake in the west, then glanced at the manuscript in her hand: "Our Town." The Little 574 Christie Lund Coles Theatre group in town wanted her to direct it for their opening play of the season. But she wasn't sure she wanted to take on anything that serious; especially not right now. She wanted some gaiety, some sparkle to make the summer memorable. After all, she was nearing fifty. Life was passing.. Swiftly all too swiftly. They wanted to begin rehearsing in ten days or two weeks. It was too soon. They could get Abbie Weeks to direct them. Why not? She asked her pricking conscience. She had done the last two plays. It was only fair to give someone else a chance. She closed the cover on the play. It was so sad beautiful, but sad. She wanted to be happy. Lucy put on her gloves and picked up the clippers, preparing to go to the rose garden and cut a few of the roses, which were blooming again, for the dinner table. Then she heard the phone ring in the hall and sighed as she laid the clippers on the porch chair and went into the house. Inside, she thought, this is where one can feel the difference in the season; nights really cool it off. She picked up the receiver, said, "Hello," and waited to hear who was calling. She was surprised to hear her neighbor down around the corner. The woman lived below the incline and they didn't see one another too often. But she was excited now. She said, "Lucy, I just didn't know whom else to call, so many are out of town." Lucy said, "Yes," thinking wryly to herself that it was very true. Everyone was away on vacation. "Well, Brother Stokes next door is quite sick. Sister Stokes doesn't want to send him to the hospital and he doesn't want to go. She's getting quite old, and it's a big job taking care of him. I wondered if we could help in any way. I'd be glad to go over and help her bathe him in the morning." Lucy said, quickly, without really thinking, 'I would be glad to take some meals over. I was going to start lunch in just a few minutes." "Oh, that would be wonderful. I could take food sometimes, too."' "Of course," Lucy agreed, knowing that their circumstances were not too prosperous, yet not wanting to deny her her good intent, adding, "T'll take lunch over in about an hour, and dinner this evening." After all, she did have a good-sized roast, almost too Lost Summer much for the two of them. It wouldn't be any bother. She hurried to clip the roses. One of these on the tray would make it attractive, and Brother Stokes might enjoy it. Then she went back into the house and toward the kitchen. Poor Brother Stokes. They'd had a hard life. She would be glad to help. After dinner that night she and John were resting on the veranda. He was lying on the chaise lounge, sipping some punch she had included with the dinner for Brother Stokes. He said, "This tastes good. I guess this will be the week end for our trip to the Gorge." "IT suppose so. But Brother Stokes is quite ill. I've said I would take meals over for a few days." "Oh, is he? That's too bad. Why isn't he in the hospital?" "Well, you know how older people are. Sister Stokes said, 'We know how he is at home, but we don't know what will happen there. Just an _ old-fashioned idea. Sarah Smith called me; she's helping all she can. So many are out of town." "And you wish you were? I'm sorry we weren't able to have a long vacation. But that. Wright deal came up, and I just couldn't make it." "No, I don't mind, really." He sighed, 'I'm glad. It's so heavenly just to lie here. So cool, so quiet after the hot day in town." She looked at him, and for the first time, saw how really tired he looked. It would be a long, hot drive even to the Gorge. She said, "Let me get you another glass of punch. And how about a cookie?" 575 August 1967 "Well, you talked me into it." She touched his hand gently as she got up and went to the kitchen to pour the punch, to put fresh ice cubes in it. It was nice out there, about as near to heaven as one could ask. It was just that one needed to get away occasionally away from the same humdrum things and people. The next day, however, as she prepared lunch for the Stokes she couldn't help but feel hot and tired and a little resentful that this long week end, too, was to be spent doing the same _ things. Brother Stokes was of vigorous pioneer stock, and if she knew him at all, she was quite sure he would linger on andon into the fall and perhaps the winter. She had a picture of herself doing the same things day after day after day, and getting older and more tired. She caught herself up quickly, reminding herself that the Relief Society president and _ others would be back and would take over the responsibility. Jerry, her son, and his family might be coming in October and what a joy that would be. Everything would be just wonderful. (Well, it was just that it had been disappointing to have planned the trip to see Sue, her daughter, in Detroit, and that had fallen through because of the Wright case; then they had planned this short trip, and it had not materialized. Every week end there had been something.) But that was life. And, really, it was fortunate she had been home. Sarah Smith, shy soul that she was, would have been at a loss to know whom to call. She was surprised that Sarah had called her; but 576 Lucy had always gone out of her way to be friendly to Sarah. Lucy cut an extra large piece of cake for Brother Stokes and one for his wife and laid them on the gaily decorated tray. Then, once more, she started down the street. She found them sitting in the rather gloomy old rock house. Sister Stokes wore a sweater, and he had an old-fashioned type of shawl across his pajamed shoulders. "My goodness," she said, "you are cold in here, and it. Does feel chilly. But it's so warm and sunny outside, I wonder if we both dragged Brother Stokes' rocker, if we could get it out onto the porch. The sun and air should do him good." "TI don't know," his wife hesitated. But he spoke up in his weak, but still firm voice, '""Probably I need a little sun and fresh air. Might as well be winter the way we're cooped up in here." "You need sun," Lucy teased him. '"Isn't that so?" He grinned (the first time she had seen him smile). ''Yep, that's right." Before long, they had him out on the porch, and they were both exclaiming about the heat and the beautiful, clear beauty of the day. '"'Almost seems like coming alive after being dead,' he commented. 'You know, with all the good food you've been feeding me, and beginning to get up and out a bit, I believe I'm going to make it." "Of course you are,' Lucy assured him, smiling. ""Now, when you get ready to go in again, have your wife phone me, and ['ll come down." "Goodness, no," his wife protested. "Mrs. Smith usually comes when she gets through baby-sitting (so that was why she Lost Summer pleased that she had had this intimate moment. They weren't just the neighbors around the corner; aging, casual friends. They were couldn't guarantee to bring the good friends, they were people meals). She'll be glad to help." "All right. But if he gets tired before, just call. I'm right around the corner, you know." "But it's quite a climb," Sister Stokes reminded her, adding, "Well, Father, looks as if we'll have a picnic today. I'll bring the lunch out here." Sister Stokes said, ''Lands, I couldn't begin to eat that much cake. Let me cut it in half and you have a piece with us. I do hate this being on the receiving end of things. All my life, it seems, I was cooking and doing for others." "I'm sure you were. That's all the more reason why you should have a little help now when you have your hands full." Sister Stokes held out her hands and said, not in self-pity but rather matter-of-factly, 'These hands aren't topo much good any more." They were knotted with arthritis, and Lucy wondered how she managed her sick husband as well as she did. She ate the cake with them, and it tasted so much better than it had at home. As Lucy sat quietly, she looked at the elderly man and his wife beside him, and saw what the years had written into their faces  pain, happiness, loss; but, most of all, a certain peace that had been won at the cost of surmounting obstacles, overcoming difficulties, accepting the inevitable. As someone had said, "growing old gracefully." As Lucy left them and started homeward, she was pleased, so whom she understood and loved. She turned and waved to them as she made the turn, and she secretly asked God to bless them, to give them a few good years of companionship, and of neighborliness of the kind she intended to give them. When she neared the porch she was surprised to see someone on the porch. John had phoned that he would not be home for lunch, and if she hadn't been getting this other lunch, she might have planned to meet a friend in town. But she was glad she hadn't, really glad.   It wasn't John, of course. It was Karolyn Peters, one of her speech students. She was very pretty as she stood in the sun, her dark hair falling in the latest "page boy,' her cotton dress crisp 577 August 1967 and pretty. As Karolyn came nearer to her, Lucy saw that her eyes were pensive and her mouth looked tight. Lucy hadn't seen her for a couple of months, which made her. Pleasure all the more real as she greeted her, "Why, Karolyn, how nice to see you! Thought all you. Young people were having too much fun to think of me." Karolyn smiled, 'Oh, really. It's nice to see you again." "Thanks. Shall we go into the house, or sit out here?" "IT think it's beautiful here," the girl said, "but maybe there's something you need to do inside. Don't let me detain you." "Nonsense," Lucy assured her. "Sit down. Let's visit." Taey sat down. When the girl did not speak, Lucy asked, '"'Are you having a good summer?" "TI suppose so," she said hesitantly, and then hurriedly, as if she didn't say it quickly she wouldn't say it, she went on, "That's what I came to talk to you about. It hasn't really been a very good summer. I've-been quite lonesome." "But I thought you went on that trip to Canada with your parents. Wasn't that nice?" "Of course. But, up until that time, I'd been quite chummy with the girls. Then, when I got back, somehow, I didn't seem to fit in too well. They invited me to the big parties the cook-outs and that but the little friendly daily chats and I'm just not in." "Have you tried 'calling them, asking them to come over-to your place, or go to town for a malt?" "No. I thought that would be too obvious." 578 not.. "Maybe they think you are busy, have other interests...." This girl with the cornflower blue eyes, lovely white skin, lithe figure; was the last person in the world one would imagine being. Lonely. In fact, she gave the impression of beimg poised, proud, almost aloof. And here she was so sad that she had been driven to come to her almost a stranger  to ask for help. She weighed her words carefully before' she said, "Have you thought, Karolyn, that maybe they think it is you who are not too friendly? You could give that impression, you know." "Oh, do you really think so? Actually, I'm shy, you know." "Perhaps. But no one would know that. And we can't always wait for the other person to make the friendly gesture." "T know, but." "No 'buts.' Have you thought of giving a party?" "Yes. But, as I said, wouldn't that be obvious?" "You said they had. Invited. You, didn't you? Then, why shouldn't you invite them? Have a real fun party back-to-school theme. I'd be glad to help you plan it, if you'd like me to." "Oh, I'd love to have you." The girl's eyes lighted up like stars, and she smiled, really for the first time since she had arrived. Funny, she had never seen this shyness, this reticence in her before. She, was afraid that she, too, had judged her to be a little on the proud side. The girl was going on, "You don't know how you helped me, with those lessons on poise and all." Lucy thought, yes. Put your feet just so; hold your head high; breathe so.... Maybe she had even helped make her into something a bit formidable to her associates. She said, "Oh, when you have your party, forget about all the rules. Just be your friend-- liest, friendly self. Look at people. See them as they are. Be warm and kind with them. Many of them, my dear, are very lonely, too." Karolyn asked seriously, '""Are they, really?" Lucy nodded, moving over to kiss the top of the girl's dark head  as she would never have dared to do before and thought how much Karolyn was like her own daughter, Sue, whom she missed so much. When they parted, Lucy asked, suddenly, "I hope you'll try out Lost Summer for the part of Emily in 'Our Town.' I'm going to direct it this fall, you know." 'Are you, really? Do you think lcould?" "Yes. I think you could do it very beautifully." Without realizing it, Lucy had decided to do the play. It wasn't too sad, really. It was life. And life, in all its aspects, was poignant, was lovely. You only had really to look at people as Emily says in the Wilder play to understand, and know! At Christmas, John had promised her, they would go to Detroit to see Sue and Ross, the new grandson, and the two _ older lovely girls. Va IN MARSHY PLACES Gladys Hesser Burnham Queen Ann's lace and goldenrod Run riot along the ditch bank's edge. There are cattails, tules, and matted sod In marshy places among the sedge. In open water the killdeer breaks The whispering hush enveloping day. A fish jumps, startling the sunning drakes, Then swift wings shatter the quiet way. *s SUMMER Cynthia Trunnell Look up, my soul, and see the sky Through needled lattice of the pines; Breathe deep this air, pine-touched and fresh; Watch close for tiny-footed signs Of little creatures, innocent and wise, Who scan the world with eager, curious eyes. Hold fast, my heart, these golden days, Each hour in this sun-fretted shade. God watches in the city, yes, But this is the world he has made! Here, where the granite mountains tower tall, Gather the strength that overcometh all. 579 Garden Barbara Dowdle   The summer of 1966 we raised a garden. Besides enjoying the wonderful harvest of vegetables and fruits from that garden, our family enjoyed a feeling of unity and responsibility while working together on a family project, and it was a real joy to see the children participate in the miracle and creativity of planting and harvesting. We also found that our garden project was a lot of hard work. In the early spring I formulated my plans. "'We are going to raise a garden," I informed our five children, ages two to thirteen years. "There is that space in the pack yard beyond our lawn, and we may just as well use it all for the garden as have it grow up in weeds." I will admit that it did seem an ambitious project, for I was ex- 580 pecting my sixth baby in September, and my husband was far away in Viet Nam. None of us knew much about raising a garden, and we didn't know anything about irrigating one. But I felt that the children needed some responsibility during the long summer 'days ahead, and so we planned our garden. The first plan called for clearing the ground of all the cornstalks that had been planted there the year before, and that fell to me. I spent days out there raking and hauling off stalks, clods, and big rocks. Then it was time to buy the seeds, and that was a joyful part of our garden plans. I spent a long time looking over all the different seeds and decided to be experimental. I had never seen honeydew melons growing, so I bought a package of seeds to see what the melons would do in our garden. Finally, I decided on pumpkins, squash, cucumbers, and cantaloupes, as well as peas, beans, lettuce, pota-  toes, carrots, and beets. I might just pause to mention that if it had not been for my father and mother, who lived in a nearby town, our garden would probably still be in the planning stage, for when it came time to plant the seeds, Daddy was there to oversee the project. He marked off the distances between the rows and marked the rows while we planted the seeds in the furrows he made. I carefully marked the rows with empty seed packages, but little four-year-old Chris went out the next day and gathered all the markers, so we didn't know for a long time just where we had planted what. When I wrote to my husband about our garden and the great plans we had for it, he had only one comment "Please get the rows straight."' For the most part, our rows were straight, but there was one place I did zigzag a little; every time I worked there I would get a guilty feeling, but that was where I planted the huge Klondike watermelons at the last moment, so I didn't think he would mind. The garden was a _ constant worry, work, and effort, from the sprinkling to bring the plants up, to making the irrigation rows afterward. The several late spring frosts really kept us hustling. I remember one midnight a school night, too. It became clear to me that it was going to freeze, and all those unprotected plants out in the garden must get covered quickly. I got the three oldest Our Garden girls out of bed, and we all put on warm clothing and got to work. We couldn't find the flashlight, so we had to use candles out there in the garden. Later, I thought about the weird sight we must have made out there. The next morning we found that about half our garden was frozen and gone, so the only thing to be. Done was to buy more seeds and try again. That was when I decided to buy the watermelon seeds. It was near the first of June, and I didn't even imagine we would actually harvest any melons, but it would be fun to see them grow anyway. Because our garden was so big, roughly a quarter of an acre, at least, it took us all to keep the weeds out. Almost automatically, the girls and I would reach for shovel or hoe every time we were outside. We learned all the intricacies of irrigating, too. I would be up and out irrigating by fivethirty in the morning many times. It was really pleasant to be up and outside working at that early hour and hear all the good country sounds. I would have missed all that without the garden, for I am not naturally an early riser. We discovered that all of us differed as to where our talents lay. Twelve-year-old Karen wasn't too thorough as a weeder, but she seemed very talented in shoveling out the irrigation rows which filled up with mud easily from water running down them. Ejightyear-old Moana was a very good weeder, and_ thirteen-year-old Dean almost took over the irrigating. I shall never forget little Chris out watching the watermelons grow. Every day he would go out and examine them, and he talked about them all summer. 581 August 1967 Much to our surprise, we picked about a dozen ripe watermelons off those vines when September came. The long dry summer turned out to be good for melons. I never knew before there was such a difference between a fresh, ripe watermelon picked off the vine and one bought in a store. Our two rows of peas did very well, also. We all stood out in the patch and ate the peas right from the vine. We just couldn't help it; they tasted so good that way. We had only one meal of fresh-cooked peas at the table. Even two-yearold Danielle learned to eat peas off the vine, and when the beans came on, she was right out in them eating the same way, only she called the beans peas. We had a good harvest of potatoes, but our beets hardly came up, for they were flooded when that part of the garden sank a little. Our tomatoes were blighted, but we had enough for our table use. Squash bugs got most of the squash, but the pumpkins grew to huge sizes. We found that we were swamped with cucumbers, and all the cantaloupes and honeydew melons really were delicious. Yes, our garden was a lot of work, but the rewards were worth all the work, not only in our harvest of good things to eat, but in the companionship the children and I experienced by this family project. There is real happiness and feeling of individual contribution from working together. I feel the children learned a little more about responsibility and work, and learned from watching a seed grow to maturity and how to harvest it. As soon as frost turned our garden into a mass of dead vines and plants, the children were already talking about the garden we would have next year, always ending with the comment from Dean, "But, please, Mom, let's try to get the rows a little straighter." iq REMEMBERING LATE SUMMER Caroline Eyring Miner Some August morning, breathless from the heat, i shali stroll up the lane to see you there Latching the sagging gate, thus to repeat | An ancient ritual of your love and care. The scarlet pomegranate bells are gone And now the swollen fruit is ripening  The fig trees interspersed, with little sun, Are later with their mellow burgeoning. We'll walk together to the creaking swing And | will hear your gentle voice again, As languorous as the hum of bees that sing A lullaby of long ago, as when | basked in summer gold of love, my dear. It seems but yesterday that | was here.. EY 582 Marian Gardner N Covered-wagon"' uated from the   and became a d was as Programs. Home on Monica Dickens (Mrs. Roy Stratton, Cape Cod, Massachusetts), great-granddaughter of Charles Dickens, renowned English Novelist, traveled across the Nancy E, Gwinn, of Sheridan, Wyoming, a senior English Major at the Univer. Sity of Wyoming, has been Selected for a signal honor. Beginning in September, Specialize jn Seventeenth century literaSecond Branch of the Canadian Mission, will represent the Ottawa nurses at branch MIA dance director. EDITORIAL Volume 54 August 1967 Number 8 Mi Belle S. Spafford, President Mi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Mi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor WM Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd 584 Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Grandma told me all about it, Told me so | couldn't doubt it....  Mary Mapes Dodge Memories of a grandmother are among the choicest of one's life. Contrast the family memories where the grandmother was present, and one where she had gone before the child remembered her. There is always a feeling of sadness not to have known her, not to have been taught lessons by her. The only memories of rather pioneer conditions shutter open as grandma walked to the pump at the back door, vigorously pumped a bucket of water, then stepped into the summer kitchen to see to her dinner. Earlier, on the treeshadowed pump steps, there had been a sharing of shelling peas which she had picked and carried to the house in her apron. Remembered is the steam rising up from a bed sheet as a hotter iron was lifted off the stove and the sheet folded and refolded almost automatically as the iron thumped and lifted. One of grandma's brothers had been killed by the Indians in Southern Utah. That made one fearful when Indians would call at the home demanding bread. There was one squaw whom people called mean, but she and grandma seemed to have a warm understanding between them. Everyone assembled at nine in the evening for family prayers. The large circle of chairs around the dining table was used to kneel by, and usually during the midst of the prayer the old clock would ''bong'' out the hour. Precious memories giving a quick vista of a bygone eral! What are the pictures and experiences the grandmothers of today will leave their grandchildren? Of course, one tells of experiences before the days of automobiles, radios, television, talking movies, airplanes, automatic washers, dryers, and refrigerators; but otherwise, except that life was more leisurely in certain aspects, less crowded and demanding, the way of life is not, fundamentally, so different. What then, is the priceless legacy a grandmother may leave to be of greatest value in the trying days ahead?' Perhaps it would be a bulwarking in moral values. To take the grandchildren, in turns, as they come to see grandmother, and talk and speak of things of the spirit, to relate experiences of healing in the family, and help them to realize a family closeness to describe the marvelous healing of that old (to them) great aunt when she was a child. To thrill them with life experiences of their ancestors who joined the Church, helping them to realize that life was hard for them, too, and that they prevailed over great temptations. Often one may point up an experience of theirs through a scriptural account to help them realize that men are brothers in any age. Where grandchildren are able to visit on a systematic basis, a consistent reading of the scriptures is rewarding not necessarily reading through a standard work but finding out the comprehension of a child on the sequence of events in world history, with reference to the gospel, and then giving to him a bird's-eye view of where his present world fits in. It is a time to impress on him the privilege of living now as one chosen to come to earth during this great last dispensation with the need to remain true and faithful to his heritage. Some grandmothers make a practice of inviting all their grandchildren on a certain day; others invite them by ages; others by sex; others as the children ask to come. It would seem that to strengthen the home teachings of righteousness would be of most worth to grandchildren. These are the foretold, fateful days when the very elect will be deceived; they will live through perilous times, and the grandmother's role can be a vital one of teaching, by love and understanding, of the wisdom she has reaped over the years.  M. C. S. 585 Notes to the Field The Relief Society Annual General Conference The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 27 and 28, 1967. The general session will be held on Wednesday, September 27, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle on Temple Square. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, September 27, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning, and the Stake Board Meeting Thursday afternoon, September 28, is limited to stake board members and mission district officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission district officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, September 27, from 7 to 10 p. M. In the Relief Society Building. DAYBREAK Alda L. Brown Dawn awakens with pink skies and jade pearls on the hemlock tree. Birds chirp staccato eighth notes with quiet feather-stirrings. The mountains are still shadowed in purple slumber. Light prisms dare not shatter too quickly nor awaken too abruptly, for at this hour the heartbeat is slow. And the mind dull. Homes carry a quiet aloofness a wanted privacy.... Phones dare not ring. And the sound of a door-bell would be much too early. The sun is wise. It rises softly, as if to mellow the day's beginning. Slowly Dawn unfolds.... Pulses quicken. Tasks loom.... Car motors startle the stillness.... Dogs bark. Suddenly, there is a purpose a goal a striving. Dawn has caught its breath, And day is on its way. 586 CAN YOU Help YOUR Husband Have A Heart? AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION More and more, the results of medical research carried on for years in the United States, clearly demonstrate that there are ways to help prevent the coronary attacks which claim the lives of so many American husbands and fathers each year. The risks of "coronary occlusion" due to atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) can be substantially reduced now by proper attention to certain "Risk Factors,'' according to leading heart specialists and the American Heart Association. These factors are:   High levels of cholesterol or other fatty substances in the blood   Overweight   High blood pressure   Lack of consistent exercise   Cigarette smoking   Diabetes   A family history of heart attacks in middle age HOW DOES YOUR HUSBAND RATE? ASK YOUR DOCTOR! YOU ARE INVITED! TO "HEARTS AND HUSBANDS DAY'' SEPTEMBER 13, 1967   8:00 P. M. SALT LAKE TABERNACLE FEATURING DR. PAUL DUDLEY WHITE World famous heart specialist and personal physician to former President Dwight D. Eisenhower during his heart attack. 587 @ Hank's face was unusually flushed when he came in the door. "Got the letter," he said, "'here, look at this!" Gail took the letter and looked up, startled, "Transfer... Now they ask you after you had settled for early retirement." She wasn't sure if her blood temperature was rising or falling. Looking up, she gave a nervous laugh. "Well, we're only young once," she muttered. She watched Hank's face wince. "Good thing the kids are out of school and married," she said. "Read on,' Hank said impatiently. "Do you realize, if I accept this offer, we will have to be sold and out of here in three weeks?" Gail watched Hank rise to his full six-foot height, and she felt his fifty years breathing down her neck, forcing an answer. 588 Transfer Hazel Loomis yh: = N "Gail, we have to decide now. The subject isn't new. We've chewed on this for a year and now an offer's come." "We will have to sell our home then," gasped Gail. '"'And everything else we don't need," urged Hank. Gail walked away from Hank's steady gaze to the wide glass view and the mountain beyond. "I was sixteen the first time I got on a high dive. I was scared to death. I stood teetering on the edge for a long time and then I shut my eyes and jumped in." Hank grabbed the letter and started for the door, turned to look Gail full in the face. ''What's the verdict? I have to see John and let him know." Gail realized her heart was pounding. "It's going to hurt, but I'll jump," she said. She saw the flush of a rodeo rider on Hank's face as he ran down the walk and, _ turning, shouted, ''Call Robbie's Real Estate and put the house on the market." Gail walked to the telephone. Her voice rose unnaturally high when she finally connected with her realtor friend. "Hey, this is Gail. Will our house sell -I mean in _ three weeks?" "You mean you're kidding," came the voice. "Really   a transfer," Gail choked. "Sure, itll sell along with 150 others... But we'll come up and measure it and get the papers going." L. Was morning before the real estate man came time enough to have a near computer file on what was to be accomplished in a bare three weeks. When he pounded the "FOR SALE" sign on the front lawn, it was like Deborah's tent peg in the skull of her enemy. From then on, the days grew with the accumulation of heartbreaking labor. Hank's mother came to give a hand through the harrowing experience and to answer "Shall I take this, shall I leave this, to whom shall I give this?" Tar, the twelve-year-old Labrador dog, was there through it all, and Gail was too tired to plan for his parting. But Tar was there and she was glad when he followed her from room to room. He ran when she ran, he walked when she walked. When she sat down, he sat and looked at her with eyes sorrowing. She patted him every time he was close. August 1967 Tar would be there to help her show the house. People would talk about him first and ease the heartbreak when she would tell  how they had made all those special things the two-way fireplace the mirrored china closet  the pull-out shelves for cleaning. They would never know how she and Hank finished the wood  how they tugged rocks from the petrified forest and made the rock garden. They wouldn't care that they did the insulating that they built the dog house that they built the stereo that they put in the push-button door opener. They wouldn't know the months they had carried swatches of draperies samples of wood  pieces of stone sizes of pots and pans (for the exact closet space). She said to herself, "Forget this. You're selling a house,' and then she would remember the very great crowd that gathered when the house was finished and the bishop blessed it. The house sold, and farewell parties began. From the accumulations of happenings, Gail felt like a hen still alive with the feathers being plucked, one by one. Then there was nothing left but the final goodbyes the movers, and seeing Tar off. Then came the very last day in the house. Hank was away on last-minute business. The grandiose last service of the elders quorum, who came and did the perfect clean-up job, left Gail close to tears. What would the other goodbyes be and farewell to Tar for the last time? Gail was alone when the moving van rolled away. Hank would soon be coming, and they would 589 August 1967 take Tar to the plane. She pulled the 100-yard drape open for a full glass view and a last look. The afternoon sun came pouring in  the sky was clean of clouds and a rare blue. The fringe of mountains made a backdrop. It was the patterned cement wall that flooded her memory. It looked as if it would stand forever. That's what Hank said when she carried blocks to him and he slapped them together with plaster. That is what they were saying all the time they were building the house. The lawn was lush and freshly cut the flowers in their best late August bloom. The rock garden was running over with squash and cucumber vines carrots beets  chard and tomatoes it was going to make a lot of good eating. She remembered Hank's stock remark, "'Gail grows vegetables and I grow flowers." She closed the drapes, and with Tar, her bodyguard, went from room to room. She stopped to pat him and wished he could speak his feelings, too. She went to the garage and lifted the lid of an old trunk to be sure her big old scrapbook was there. She opened it, thinking she would take the letter her mother had written before her fatal accident. In it was the pedigree chart she was working on. She 590 fingered around until she put her hands on it. She took it out and closed the trunk and put the lock down, remembering kindly the friend who was going to take all those nondescript storage pieces and store them at her mountain cabin. Gail put the letter in her voluminous handbag. By that time Hank had arrived. ""Let's get out of here quickly," he said, and she knew exactly how he felt. The scene was putting Tar in the car for the last time and the screened travel cage  then the children pouring from every house in the neighborhood to say goodbye and to pat Tar for the last time. Finally, Hank got Tar into the front seat. He folded himself down like a big colt and put his head in Gail's lap. He groaned comfortably as he always did. Soon they came to the kennel's shipving office. Hank took Tar out of Gail's arms. He took the box out. She heard Hank's firm steps on the boardwalk and Tar's patter, patter, but she turned the other way. She had always said Tar would give his very life for her that if there was any more loyalty to learn, Tar was the example. Hank soon returned, pretending composure, ''Won't those twins be happy when they see Tar?" If Gail had answered him, the sound would have been like cracked straw. Then she noticed Hank was taking the long road around the city. She didn't ask any questions, because she knew what was in his mind. When they were well on the journey, he said, "TIt'll be past midnight when we reach Denver. Hope the kids don't stay up. We'll be dog-tired, and that's the way I want it. I can't feel when I'm tired." It was certainly late when they arrived, and, after the harrow-  ing strain of three long weeks, Gail felt like a burned stump. But she caught fire again once safe in the nest of her married daughter. This was next best to being in her own bed. Next morning, they saw in church four families (all transfers from their own town) who waited until after the services to rehearse the joys and sorrows of uprooted families over bowls of homemade ice cream and large pieces of chocolate cake. Sonar behind them, Hank and Gail began their 2,000 mile journey toward the crowded east coast. It had been such a warm, comfortable feeling to be with their own flesh and blood, and the separation from them was more philosophical than what they had felt. A house and a wall and a dog you can't write to, you can't plan holidays with, you can't talk to by telephone. You can't sell a child. As they drove away, Gail looked back, and the Rocky Mountains were strung as far as eye could see from north to south. "There they go," Gail said. "The everlasting hills." "Don't rub it in,' was Hank's reply. Gail knew his thoughts, especially when he set his jaw like that. She knew when to keep quiet and when to boil over. She pulled out her notebook. Writing on paper was a release. It was midafternoon when Transfer Hank stopped at an eating place. While they sat waiting for their order, Hank asked what she had been writing. "Do you want to hear a line?' asked Gail, pulling out her notebook and reading: "What can compensate for the crystal mountain streams? Would that we might hold the clean air swept down from glaciers and use it when city smoke becomes oppressive. Our forebears were washed from the eastern shores to these. Mountains. Never were they pushed back again. Why are we going back? Did they leave something we must find some genealogy something needed to send us on the right road to get the job: done? We are not refugees. We made a choice, and with God's help, we will make good." Few times had she seen Hank weep. She always respected his emotional control. He usually turned his head away, but this was a different day. Three days by car! They were one of a great mobile army going or settling down in a sea of docks and bridges, turnpikes, and toll roads. Oh, for a place, thought Gail, to reach out and touch a blade of grass, a flower, or even a weed! It was, finally, the morning of the seventh day, with Gail and Hank badly in need of rest after their search for an apartment. Yes, it was the seventh day, and they were tired, but they were up early and located a chapel. Around it was a pleasant lawn, shrubs, and flowers. Gail plucked a leaf and squeezed it to see if it oozed green. The hour was early, but there were cars already parked around. The foyer was 591 Transfer light and pleasantly familiar. Gail had a joyful coming-home feeling. A handsome, youngish man emerged from an office door. Gail poked Hank. "T'll bet this is the bishop," she whispered. It was, and he came with his hand warm with greeting. "We're transfers from the West," said Hank, "just sort of checking in." "I'm a transfer, too," said the bishop, "six years ago. From Montana." There was plenty to talk about, then, with not enough time. After the bishop took the usual statistics about them, a young man burst into the front door with urgency written all over his face. "Well, meet the new folks," said the bishop. '"This is the Sunday School superintendent." Introductions were quickly acknowledged. "'What will I do with those teenage boys again? Glen just called and can't teach them this morning. They are incorrigible." "Hank just left from being Sunday School superintendent," Gail volunteered. '""Why don't you ask him?" "Well? Will you?" the poor man was pleading. Hank was shunted off, led by the superintendent. Gail knew what Hank's performance would be. She knew the effect of that sure, calm voice. Pretty soon the young boys would forget to wiggle and whisper as they listened to the Prodigal Son  the day in the Sacred Grove  he would know the story, whatever it was. Gail sat down on a bench and waited. She saw on the bulletin board "Singing Mothers' Rehearsal Tuesday Evening." Relief Society memories came fast now. She was glad she had brought her arrangements for hymns. They would be useful here. All was so familiar. Possessions seemed unimportant. She was glad she had brought her mother's last letter and the pedigree chart. The Church was the same everywhere and she had come home. Ya Color translates BRIGHT BEGONIAS Bernice Ames Here at the edge of a garden As velvet as Eden The sun has taken root To hold down moments of light. Begonias rise on brittle stems From Netherlands fields Of infinite care and choosing  Magenta, lemon, fuchsia, tangerine. The love that made them flourish. They give back a beauty Learned from partial shade. ~ y, MT. WILSON, SAN JUAN NATIONAL FOREST, COLORADO P 592 Photograph by David Muench IN THE MIDST OF SUMMER Mabel Jones Gabbott To be alive in the fulness of a summer day; _ To be aware of this sun-drenched moment; to feel [he warmth, the wonder of life; to note the way The bees, sated with hollyhock nectar, reel In the sunshine; to see the balanced grace Of hummingbirds on flimsy breezes, who Drink from petaled cups; at last to trace The sun-dialed hours to purple evening dew. We are aware in waking and in sleep Of time's brief measure; but there is a length of day In which to dream, to share talk, long and deep, be Of finite things and all their infinite way. To stretch a thought to the uttermost bounds of heaven   For this, surely, a summer day is given. " Wosheloth "  Slippers Mary J. Police For one pair, the following articles are needed: 2 terry facecloths, any color or print (in size to fit foot) 54 yard of 34-inch wide elastic 1 card rickrack, matching or contrasting color small flowers, bows, or buttons for trim Fold facecloth in half. Seam one end from fold to border of cloth. Fold border down one inch. Slip stitch. Place rickrack 54-inch from top of slipper, stitch in place, forming the casing. Draw 10 inches of elastic through casing. Firmly stitch ends of elastic to open ends of slippers. Fold 11% inches of stitched seam upwards towards casing, to form heel shape. Tack to seam. Stitch the open end of cloth %-inch from end. Tack small flowers, bows, or buttons to front seam for trim. If desired, a rickrack bow may be stitched to front seam. For men's or boy's slippers, skip the rickrack and other trimming and substitute braid or leave plain. An F Ww NE 594 Illustrated directions for making Washcloth Slippers. 1. Fold Cloth Seam end from fold to border. Ae / 2. Fold border down. Slipstitch 1-inch from fold. Sew rickrack 54-inch from border fold to. Oe form casing. 3. Draw 10 inches of elastic through casing. Ley )) Stitch ends of elastic pe NS to open ends of slippers. 4. Fold 114" of back seam up-. Wards to casing to form shape of heel. Tack to seam. 5. Stitch front seam closed 6. Tack tassel flowers  bows or buttons here THOUGHTS ON LIFE Angie Munson The sky is dark blue with brilliant stars shining through, like the dark of our lives and the moments of joy. The darkness, at times, seems to invade our lives, surround, and overpower us, and we do not look for the light. There are, however, numerous stars or blessings in our lives, so numerous that we cannot actually number them. There are joys still too far distant for us to see, just as in the heavens there are stars too far away even to comprehend. So, when we feel the 'd@rkness closing in, let us step outside and look to the heavens. At first' sight, they, too, may seem dark, but when our eyes become adjusted, we will see there is more light than darkness. It is only that, at the moment, the dark is closer to us. And, remembering this, we will realize we have only to open the eyes of our soul to see the beauty in life. 595 August 1967 mNtYN 3 =a Recipes for Venison - Ann Andersen \ LN SOT OT lai aa Vax\9 aa laa NID WIN LNT ON { { _ Venison is a nourishing and delicious meat. Through skillful preparation and a little extra care, the ''wild'' flavor can be lessened, and venison can be a favorite food for the family. A small amount of beef suet added to ground venison increases the flavor and adds to the rich brown surface coating of meat balls and meat loaves. CORNISH PASTIES Pastry (or use your own favorite) 14 c. Boiling water 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 c.. Shortening 1 tsp. Salt 3 c. Sifted flour Pour boiling water over shortening and beat with a fork. Add dry ingredients. Chill. Filling 1 Ib. Ground venison 3 tbsp. Chopped onion 2 potatoes, peeled and grated 1 tsp. Salt 3 large carrots, peeled and grated 1/4 tsp. Pepper lf, c. Catsup 14 tsp. Oregano Crumble and fry venison and onion. Mix with other ingredients. Using saucer as a guide, cut dough into 10 circles. Place filling in center and fold over, crimp edges, and prick top. Place on baking sheet. Bake at 400  for 10 minutes. Reduce heat to 350  for 10 minutes. This recipe will serve a family of four twice. The pasties freeze nicely. SWEET AND SOUR MEAT BALLS (Kottbullar) Meatballs 1 egg 1 tsp. Salt 14, c. Bread crumbs 14 tsp. Pepper 14 c. Water 4 tbsp. Sugar 1 small onion 1 Ib. Venison (ground) Mix ingredients and form into balls. 596 Recipes for Venison Sauce 2 beef bouillon cubes 1 c. Milk (evaporated may be 1 c. Boiling water used if desired) 1% c. Flour 2 tbsp. Lemon juice YZ tsp. Cinnamon l4-c. Water Dissolve cubes in boiling water. Simmer 10 minutes. Add flour a little at a time. Add cinnamon. Stir in milk and 14% cup water if evaporated milk is used. Stir and cook until sauce is thickened. Stir in lemon juice, pour over browned meat balls and serve as soon as possible. Can be served over noodles, if desired. Serves 6. Ae f THE POSTMAN   A MODERN PIED PIPER Pearle M. Olsen He makes no claim to using magic power, Nor does: he blow the pipe of legend's fame. No rodents follow him in their doomed hour, And he would be the first one to disclaim That he encourages a deed or thought When children leave their homes to follow him. Enduring lessons he has gently taught To boys with questing eye and robust limb. They wait and watch until he comes along, Then follow on the pathway to each home. Sometimes he tells a story, sings a song, While measuring steps like a metronome. His voice and leather bag of weighted mail Are more alluring than a flute's thin wail! THE WARP OF A PERFECT DAY Bertha A. Kleinman When the dusk descends and the setting sun discloses the deeds of the day well done, Do you still remember a task just one, A task defaulted and shunned away to delete and despoil your perfect day? As you close your door on the eventide, to nestle and drowse at your fireside, Is there one last call you have failed to keep that flutters your dreams as you fall asleep? Not the alpine summit where eagles soar, nor the dizzy heights of Excelsior  It's the little tasks you postpone away that mar the Warp of your perfect day. 597 Orchids in the Kitchen 598 Elsie Sim Hansen   A thunderstorm was scissoring across the sky as I looked out of my living-room window. It would probably be raining any minute, I thought, as I placed a scarf over my head in preparation for dashing across the street to my neighbor's house to borrow a cup of powdered sugar. As I entered Beth Jordan's kitchen and asked for the sugar, I noticed almost immediately that she was ironing, and that she had a lovely white orchid on the shoulder of her pink-flowered house dress. "Looks as if you have on your celebrating wings," I said, smiling, as I nodded my head in the direction of the orchid. Beth's face flushed a faint pink, and she laughed as she said, "I suppose you could say I am celebrating, although I am not really going anywhere today. Randy and I celebrated our anniversary last night." "It is a gorgeous orchid. I do not believe I have ever seen a white one so large," I replied. "IT think it is sublime," Beth exclaimed. ''That is why I didn't like the idea of shutting it away in a box in the refrigerator where I couldn't see it or enjoy its beauty. Of course, I realize it will not last long wearing it for awhile every day, but of what use is it doing lying in a dark refrigerator? I like to think I am getting as much joy and pleasure out of it as possible." I was silent for a moment as if trying to digest the idea, and then I said, "I always put my corsages in the refrigerator after wearing them a time or two. I have never thought about wearing them in the house." Beth glanced quickly at me as she said, "I feel sure other people have probably worn flowers in the house, but the idea might not have occurred to me if I hadn't - helped my mother take care of grandmother's belongings when she died about a year ago." "Ts the idea a secret?" I asked. 'And what has it to do with wearing corsages in the house?" "Grandmother's house was just full of lovely gifts that people had given to her, including a cedar chest that was filled to the brim with embroidered pillow slips, dish towels, tablecloths, and even a wedding-ring quilt top. Every thing was yellow with age. Mother said she had asked grandmother many times why she didn't use the articles, and grandmother always replied that she intended to when some special occasion arrived, only the occasion never came. Does that answer your questions?" I felt a guilty feeling skip down my spine as I remembered all the gifts I had stored away, so I said defensively, '""Not quite, because I think it is a good idea to have Orchids in the Kitchen some lovely linens stored away for special occasions." "I do, too,' Beth answered, "but not like grandmother did. Just think of the time and effort friends and relatives expended in making the lovely gifts they gave to her. Now she is gone, and she didn't give herself any opportunity to enjoy them." "Perhaps she received her pleasure in just knowing she had them," I suggested. Beth looked at me skeptically for a moment, and then she said, "The scriptures tell us, 'For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift?' Grandmother evidently never learned how to receive her gifts. Randy and I have decided to obtain as much joy and happiness out of our gifts now, today, as it is possible." As I picked up the cup of sugar from the drainboard, I said thoughtfully, "I am surely glad that I came over today, Beth. I realize now that it is about time for my family, and me, to start enjoying a few orchids of our own." 7% TIME Dixie Randall Oveson Whoever said time flows or glides? It swoops and jerks, drags, or flies. For time is teasing, mean and dear  It's here and gone; then gone and here. Each hour and minute drags or fleets: When time is needed, on it speeds. When anxious, waiting for some word, It hovers, stays, is never heard. It's so elusive, no man yet Has caught time in a human net. With all our scientific skill Time comes and goes just as it will! ~ 599 A TALENT FOR MAKING QUILTS AND COVERLETS Katherine B. Weber, San Gabriel Ward, East Los Angeles Stake, California, contributes her talents for design and stitchery to her Relief Society organization. Each year she thinks of something new in color harmony or color contrasts, and something different in quilting patterns something bright and cheerful for the children's beds, something lovely in ''singingpastels' for the woman of the house dquilts and coverlets beautiful enough to serve as bedspreads warm and comfortable for replacing blankets. Sister Weber was born & Romania, and later moved to Germany, where she became a member of the Church in 1911. She came to the United States in 1932, for a temple marriage. After many, many moves, she "'settled"' in San Gabriel, where she has supervised quiltmaking in the ward Relief-Society for many years. She has been a visiting teacher for forty years. Her homemade bread has been in the ''best-seller'' booth at the bazaars ever since she joined the Relief Society in San Gabriel. 600 Chapter 7 Synopsis: Nora Blake, who comes to teach school in Banner, Idaho, lives in the home of Bishop Shepherd and becomes acquainted with a Latterday Saint family. She meets Jed Oliver, a local rancher, and is astonished to learn that he cannot read. She teaches him to read. Nora takes up a homestead. Her ties to the valley become deeper and she grieves with the family when Trudy Shepherd dies of influenza. Through truths and hope expressed at the funeral services, and afterwards, Nora learns significant principles of the gospel. Finally, Jed explains the mystery of Old Free, a hermit, and non-Mormon, who is really Jed's grandfather, and how the old man had watched over Jed for many years while his father prospected. Nora, by now deeply in love with Jed, wonders why he does not speak to her of his own feelings. @ Somewhat to Nora's surprise, Old Free didn't hesitate about accepting the invitation to come to school. The fact was that he seemed to be pleased to find Hazel M. Thomson someone interested in his wood carvings. "How in the world did you do this?" she asked, picking up a piece of large wooden chain. "It's not hard," he said. "'I just got me a good piece of pine to start with, and whittled away the part that's gone and this is the part that's left." Nora laughed. "Sounds easy," she agreed. "But I wouldn't know just which part to whittle away. That's what I'd like to have you do, show my students which part to cut away, as well as show them some of these things you have made." He had a marvelous collection of his work, ranging from the heavy chain to dainty figurines. There were many bowls made of various woods of differing sizes and colorations and inlaid in 601 August 1967 beautifully intricate patterns and designs. Nora spent a delightful halfhour just looking and feeling the woods and listening to the old man talk. "That's it," he said. "Pick it up. You can't get the feel of wood by looking. You've got to handle it." The piece he had reference to was a tray in a breathtakingly beautiful arrangement of pieces and colors, arranged in a geometric pattern. "It's beautiful," breathed Nora. "Perfectly beautiful." They agreed on his coming the following Friday afternoon at two. As she said goodbye to the old man, it occurred to Nora that he had lived on the fringe of the community's life, just as his cabin was on the edge of town in its location, that he was actually welcoming this opportunity to be a little part of the happenings of the village near which he had spent those many years. Hearing Jed's story on the ride out to the Lang place had given Nora new insight into Jed's life, and the new feeling of compatibility between them clung to her. She hoped, how she hoped, that Jed, too, recognized a new feeling of closeness between them, but her hopes were short-lived. As they neared the lights in the Shepherd farmhouse, Nora asked, '"'When he comes to school, Jed, wouldn't you like to come and hear him?" "I don't believe I can," he answered. "I've got a lot of work to do around my place. If the snow keeps melting, we're due for an early spring. I don't look for much storm now, not after such 602 a lot of snow. I'll soon have to have my crops in, if I hope to raise anything this year." Nora's brown eyes blazed. "Land! That's all you think about, Jed Oliver!'' she cried. "Have you forgotten that this is your own grandfather? Nothing ought to keep you from hearing him. But I should have known," she said bitterly, "to you, people are nothing. It's only land that matters." Nos stopped, shaken by her outburst, regretting it immediately. Her lips quivered, but Jed did not notice. She could not see that his own face had paled under its weathered tan. He didn't answer until he drew his team to a stop at the Shepherd home. At last he spoke, quietly, evenly. "IT think you're right," he said. "T've had something of the same idea myself, but now that you put it into words, I can see it right clear. I have always put my land first, and just as you say, people are what're really important." Nora felt helpless in coping with this unexpected turn in his attitude. She wanted to apologize for the things she had said, yet his manner stopped her. He seemed to bear no resentment over what she had said. As he said good night, there was no bitterness at her outburst, but rather she sensed a great humility, or something akin to gratitude, as if she had done him a very real favor. The conversation remained fresh in her mind and she found herself going over it again and again. Sometimes she blamed herself for her inexcusable rudeness. Other times she found herself trying to justify her criticism. Well, he does pay more attention to his farm than he ever does to people, she told herself. I wish   I hadn't said what I did. No! I'm glad I said what I did. Maybe, just maybe, it will jar him a little and somehow make him aware that I'm alive. On Friday, Old Free appeared exactly at two o'clock, his white hair and beard neatly combed and his old brown bag pueure with his carvings. Of all her visitors for the year, this one proved to be the most enjoyable for her students. At fourthirty Joe Pine still sat at his desk working on the first link of his chain from the piece of wood Old Free had given him. "I've got to get home," he said at last. "But if I come out to your place, will you show me how to finish this?" "Glad to," the old man answered, and Nora noted _ the vleased look on his face. "Glad to. On just come out any time. Any time at all." "Tomorrow's Saturday," said Joe, picking up the piece of wood and carrying it carefully toward the door. "It's Saturday, and I[']] be there. And thanks, Mr. Free. Thanks a lot." "T can't tell you how much I appreciate your visit," Nora said, when Joe had gone. "J think you've solved two of my biggest problems for next year. That is, I don't think they'll be problems next year. I think they've found out that there are other ways of having fun. Why, both Joe Pine and Ed Johnson have been more interested in this than anything we've done all year. And I may as The Golden Chain well tell you to expect them both tomorrow. Where Joe goes, Ed goes along, too." "It'll seem good," said the old man, beginning to put the articles back into his sack. "It'll seem real good to have young folks around that don't come to laugh at me." He went on filling his bag. '""Sometimes it gets a bit lonely out at my place," he said. "Don't see many people." "Why don't you try?' Nora asked gently. "Nowhere to go,' he said. ''Nowhere except to church." He stood there, holding the tray she remembered from her visit. He held it out to her. "Here," he said. '"I'd like you to have this." -"Oh, thank you!" she said. "Thank you, so very much." She placed the tray on her desk and looked at him. "Why don't you go, if you want to, to church I mean? I do. And I'm a non-member, just like you, but they always make me feel weleame. I'm sure they would do the same with you." ean was a great sadness in his face and in his voice. "I'm not worthy. You see, I was there, that day." "But that's seventy years ago," said Nora. "You must have been very young." "Yes, I was young. But I was there. I was there." Nora remembered the _ two books she had seen in his cabin, the Bible and The Book of Mormon, worn from much use. "Think of Paul," she said. ''He held 'the coats of those who stoned Stephen, yet the Lord said 603 August 1967 to Ananias, 'He is a chosen vessel unto me.' "' The old man nodded. 'I have read it," he said, "many times, and it seemed that Paul was consenting to Stephen's death. At Carthage, I raised no hand. Maybe, I, too, was consenting." "But you were but a boy," cried Nora. "You cannot, you must not carry this load of guilt. You see," she said softly, "I know who you are." "You what!" "Yes. Jed told me. I know you're his grandfather. And I know it's tim  the people in this town know it. Your place is with him. Not living alone, like a like an outcast." "But I am an outcast. I cast myself out from all decent people and, especially, from the Mormons." He faced her, and his faded blue eyes looked deep into her brown ones. "Yet this much I know. What they believe is true." "Then you should tell them," said Nora, "'and become one of them." The old man picked up his bag and shook his head. "IT can't," he said. 'I'm not worthy." He went out and closed the door. Days passed and Nora did not see Jed. Then on the last day of school, Ben mentioned that Jed had gone to Salt Lake City. On the following Sunday he was absent from church. During the week Nora made a new dress and bonnet to match. They were blue, and the following Sunday, wearing them, Nora knew she had never looked better. And Jed was back. But if she expected him to 604 notice either the dress or the bonnet, she had been mistaken. "T don't know how to thank you, Miss Nora," he said, shaking her hand briefly. Miss Nora! Nora could feel a new formality in his manner, sensing that her own words had made her position with him more remote than ever. "Tf it hadn't been for you, I might never have realized my lack of concern for my fellow human beings. You were right, you know." '""No! No, I wasn't!" cried Nora. "IT was very wrong. Wrong in what I said and wrong to presume to say it to you, you who have cared all these years for Ben. I don't know how I could have said such a thing." "Yes, I have been so taken up with my farm," insisted Jed, "that I really haven't given people much thought. But I mean to make up for lost time." Noxe's hopes hounded WAstcu. Perhaps ne was going to say something! Something she had been longing to hear for so many days and weeks and months. Yes, since that very first day when she felt his strong arms lift her over the schoolyard fence to safety. "T'll be leaving next week for a mission to England." Nora felt that her heart would stop. "But your farm?" she cried. "Who will take care of your place?" "Ben. He can take care of what he can manage, and the rest will just have to lie fallow until I get back. The land will just have to get along, while I go out into the world and take care of people's souls." Oh, why had she done it? Why had she said those things to him? And, above all, why had she ever. Bothered to teach him to read? Nora was to ask herself these questions many times in the months that were to follow. Jed's farewell was set for the next Thursday evening. Nora dressed carefully, wishing she had been invited by Jed to go with him, but since she hadn't she went along with the Shepherd family. Jed was not there when they arrived. Neither did he put in an appearance until almost time for the meeting to begin. And when he did come, Freedom Lang was with him. Nora noticed whispers among the audience as Jed led the old man right up to the stand and seated him by his side. Nora could feel an air of expectancy as the moment drew near for Jed to make his remarks. When he began he never took his eyes from hers until he had finished. "I want you to know how happy I am to be going on this mission," he said. "T have something that is very precious to me, my testimony, and up to now I have made little effort to share it with anyone else. Now I have that opportunity, and I will share it with everyone I can get to listen. I mean to make up for lost time." He turned then and held out a hand to Old Free, drawing the old man to his feet, leading him over by the pulpit. "Before I go, I want you to know one thing. This man is my grandfather. It's a long story, and he had his reasons why he never wanted me to tell it. But I feel the The Golden Chain time has come for it to be known. I'm going away, and I leave him in your hands. He'll be moving in to stay with Ben while I am gone. I_hope you'll take care of him until I get back." Nora found herself blinking back the tears. She could still feel them, there in her throat, when Jed came and asked her for the first dance. They didn't talk. There seemed to be nothing more to say. He held her close and once, just once, for a brief moment, Nora was certain she felt his lips against her forehead. When the dance was over, so was the evening for her. She knew Jed would take Ben and drive Old Free back out to his cabin. She left the building and walked back to the Shepherd home alone under the stars. Taree was a large group gathered at the little station to see Jed off on the train. Nora was disappointed. It seemed that the whole town had showed up. But, she asked herself, what had she expected? That she would be the only one there? She tried desperately to remember whether there was anything special about his handshake, but she had to admit that he had included her as one of the group, along with Mrs. Shepherd and the others, with no particular, special attention. As the train disappeared from sight a great loneliness engulfed her. Was it always to be this way for her, Nora wondered? At least, the feeling was familiar, one with which she had lived much of her life. She had coped with it before, and she would again. She watched Ben and Free drive off together 605 August 1967 as she got back in the buggy with the Shepherd family. "'He'll make a mighty good missionary," said the bishop as he headed the team toward home. "There are few men that know the gospel better than Jed does." "Yes," agreed his wife. "He'll do a fine work." As they neared the Oliver farm, the bishop stopped at the adjoining field. "T hope you haven't forgotten that you own a piece of property, Nora," he said. "I want to drive in here for a minute. We have a surprise for you." He held the horses while Sam jumped down and unfastened the wires that served as a gate. "Have to get you a real gate made," he said, ''but I've been too busy lately on this other project." The place was rather heavily wooded near the road but back just a short distance there was a little clearing. And in the little clearing there stood a yes, it was! A little, a beautiful little cabin. Nora caught her breath with the beauty of the setting. "But how? Why?' she stammered. "How?" asked the _ bishop. "Easy. That is, with Jed helping, it was easy. He's a good man with an axe, that boy. And why? To try to repay you for what you're doing for my children, for all our children in the valley. And most of all, for what you did for us when we were all down with the flu. You see, in order to prove up on your claim, the law requires that you live here on the land a part of each year. I figured summertime would be the best, then when fall comes you can move back in with us again." 606 Nora was overwhelmed. A house! Her very own house! Here, on her very own land! The tears that had _ been threatening for these past days filled her eyes and overflowed. "How can I ever thank you enough?" she asked. "How can I ever begin to thank you?" Mrs. Shepherd put an arm around her shoulders. "Don't try," she said. "There's nothing Josh likes better than giving someone a good surprise. You have more than repaid him already. Come on, now. Let's go in and see it from the inside." "You may bring your bed and the little rocker from your room," said Bertha Shepherd. "Then we'll move them back again in the fall." For a week, fixing up the little cabin took every minute of Nora's waking moments. At the end of that time, she was ready to move in. That was the day Ben brought the cow. With a rope around her neck he led her right up to Nora's door. "Here's Old Brin," he said. "Jed told me to bring her when you got settled." "Jed! You've had a letter irom him already?" "Well, no and yes. Not in the mail, if that's what you mean. He wrote a whole bunch of them and left them in a pile in the order I was to open them and this one comes first. It says to bring the cow. And for me to come and milk her if you want me to." "Why, no. No," said Nora. "I can milk her. I'm sure I can." She wasn't quite as sure as she tried to sound. But she had seen them milk often enough at the Shepherds. All you did was take hold and squeeze. "Well," said Ben. "'Come and try it while I'm here. Then maybe I can help if you have any trouble." Nora found a small pail and stooped down by the cow. "She's tame," said Ben. "Jed said to be sure and bring Old Brin so you would have a cow that doesn't kick." Then the cow drew back her tail and swatted Nora hard across the face. "Ow!" cried Nora, grabbing her stung cheek. The bucket fell in the dirt. "Oh, I should have fixed that so she couldn't," said Ben. "She doesn't kick but she is a tailswisher. Here." He moved to Nora's side and parted the end of the cow's tail. Taking an end in each hand he tied the tail firmly around the cow's leg. The Golden Chain "There. Now let her switch. She can't hurt you now." He took the pail and ran to the spring, rinsing it out well before _he brought it back to Nora. Again Nora set the pail under the cow and squeezed. Then she squeezed again. Nothing happened. "T think she's dry," she said. Ben laughed. "No, she's not dry. I got a whole bucketful from her this morning. Here, let me show you. You start easier, like this." A white stream poured into the bucket. "Oh, I see," said Nora. "Now I think I get it." And she did. Not with the experienced hand Ben used, but she was getting the milk. She worked slowly, laboriously, for a time, then she stopped. "How is it I'm not getting any of that foam that comes on top of the milk when the bishop does it?" she asked. "'Doesn't this cow give any foam?" Again Ben laughed. "Oh, you'll learn how to get foam all right, as soon as you learn to milk faster," he said. "'It's easier if you tip the bucket a little. Let me show you." Nora moved out of the way and again Ben took the bucket. He squatted down low and held the bucket between his feet, his hands' working quickly and rhythmically. The milk foamed into the little bucket below his hands. "See," he said. ""That's all there is to it." He finished the cow, stripping her out carefully. "She has to be dry," he said. "That's the thing you must be 607 August 1967 careful of. Otherwise you'll either dry her up too soon or have some other troubles. What do you think, Miss Blake? Jed said if you decided you don't want the cow I was to bring you some milk every day." "No, I can milk her. I'm sure I can, if you'll just come over for the first few times until I catch on a little better." "You say Jed left you a whole bunch of letters?' she asked, trying to appear unconcerned as she picked up the bucket of milk. "Yes. About ten, I guess. He said it would be quite a while before I'd hear from him direct and these would help me out until then." He opened his mouth as though he would have said more, then closed it again. But after he had gone Nora found herself wondering. What was it he had been about to say? Would there be other things in those letters that concerned her? It was on the following day that her curiosity reached a new high. The old kitchen range that the bishop had located for her cabin baked very well. It was afternoon when she decided to make a cake and take it over. To Ben and Free to have for their supper. They were both out inthe field, so she let herself in the door to find that they had left the house in a general state of untidiness, the dishes not even washed. It was after she had dried the dishes and was returning them to the cupboard that she saw the stack of letters. She hadn't meant to snoop. But there they were, right where she had to stack the plates. Holding the plates with one hand, she attempted to push the letters back into a pile with the other when they slipped from her grasp and scattered on the floor at her feet. They were not addressed, only numbered in consecutive order, that is, all except one. At the sight of this one she stopped and stared. There it was in Jed's unmistakable handwriting: "To Nora, When." (To be concluded) la IN A GREENHOUSE Sudie Stuart Hager In this protected place | see Petunias blooming tranquilly, Nurtured in their fibre-pots To be transferred to garden plots. They've never seen a worm nor bug, A caterpillar or a slug; Have never known a stormy day Or children trampling them in play; Have never felt a burning sun, Or sudden chill when day is done. It troubles me to think about; Their future when I've set them out; And yet it is their destiny To make a showy yard for me. At summer's end, they will have learned That garden beauty must be earned. ~ 608 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Relief Society Activities ole iow) Re. X.. Q British South Mission, Thames Valley District Bazaar, Aylesbury November 5, 1966 Virginia Archer, former Supervisor, British South Mission Relief Society, (President and Sister Archer are standing in center) reports: "The town of Aylesbury is in the very center of the County of Buckinghamshire, of which it is the county town. Each year the Relief Societies of the Thames Valley District hold an annual Christmas bazaar together. In 1966 it was suggested at the leadership meeting, held in March, that the bazaar should be held at Aylesbury. The next few months became very busy arranging for the various attractions. Each Relief Society had its own stall. The stall had a variety of goods, all beautifully made and the choice of work on sale ranged from a Cindy Doll to a full-size quilt. There was evidence of many hours spent sewing, knitting, and baking. In the center of the hall, along with the pictorial screens (depicting scenes in the history of the Church), the missionaries had set up a stall well-stocked with pamphlets and Books of Mormon. Refreshments were served by the district Relief Society presidency." Joan Spratley Child is the new supervisor of the British South Mission. 609 August 1967 Southwest British Mission, Plymouth District Relief Society Displays First Quilt December 18, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Mildred Spencer, wife of the Building Supervisor; Helen Grant Barton, former Supervisor, Southwest British Mission Relief Society. Back row, standing, beginning at the right: Jean Wise, First Counselor; Pearl White, President; Jean Hodgson, Second Counselor. Sister Barton reports: "December 18, 1966 marked the date of our first District Conference held in the new chapel in Plymouth. President James A. Cullimore had just officially opened it a few days before. This also marked the. Occasion of the first quilt to be made by the Relief Society in the Plymouth. District. Sister Mildred Spencer, who had never quilted before, taught the sisters how to quilt, and the finished product is shown in the picture. The sisters enjoyed the new challenge of making the quilt and hope to make many more Sister Barton bought the quilt and is taking it around the mission to show the other Relief Societies." Marie Flachman Bradshaw is the new supervisor of the Southwest British Mission. Brigham Young University First Stake (Provo, Utah) Presents Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, February 19, 1967 Sixth from the left, second row: Joyce Lunceford, Secretary-Treasurer; ninth, tenth, and eleventh, fifth row: Beverly Polson, spiritual living class leader; Linda Moody, Counselor; Lynette Elder, organist; at the left, third row:, Sherry Weyland, chorister. Della C. Crockett, President, Brigham Young University First Stake, reports: "Highty-three sisters from Brigham Young University First Stake blended their voices to furnish music for quarterly conference February 19, 1967. Included were fourteen sisters from the ward Relief Society presidencies, and five sisters from the stake Relief Society board." West Utah Stake, Pioneer Ward and Provo Second Ward Officers Prepare for Birthday Parties, March 1967 Left to right, officers of Pioneer Ward Relief Society: Eleanor S. Rees, Secretary-Treasurer; Pearl S. Jackson, First Counselor; Luella B. Jensen, President; Beatrice C. Patterson, Second Counselor; Esther M. Moulton, President, West Utah Stake Relief Society; officers of Provo Second Ward Relief Society: Cheryl B. Christensen, First Counselor; Merle T. Halladay, President; Jennie V. J. Bailey, Second Counselor; Bertha O. Nielson, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Moulton reports: 'This picture of the Pioneer Ward and the Provo Second Ward Relief Society officers was taken just before their birthday parties. In 1942 when the two boxes shown in the picture were closed, these two wards were part of the Utah Stake, with a Relief Society membership of about 77 and 119 members. Now, in 1967, this same two-ward area is the West Utah Stake, with nine wards and a Relief Society membership of 841 sisters. It is interesting to wonder if the next twenty-five years will bring about as great a change. One thing we are sure of, and which will not change, is the influence for good that the Relief Society is now, and always will be, in the homes of the women who are active members of this wonderful organization." 610 Ppemert t a <b be any ever h at August 1967 Central German Mission, Pioneer Dinner, Dusseldorf March 7, 1967 Mary B. Beesley, Supervisor, Central German Mission Relief Society, reports: '""We send greetings and a few words to describe what we are attempting to do here for the observance of the 125th Anniversary of Relief Society. We have distributed the little play "The Gift' in every branch and hope sincerely that it will be put on as I know we all want it to be done. Last week we invited the mission Relief Society presidency and the district leaders, with their partners, to the mission home in Dusseldorf for a pioneer dinner. We served a typical dinner of chicken, green peas, mashed potatoes, cole slaw with pineapple, baking powder biscuits, and apple pie with homemade ice cream. Then we sent out recipes in German. Our table setting featured covered wagons and miniature spinning wheels which were made for the occasion. There were also small red-checkered sunbonnets at each sister's place, and matching checkered napkins.   "The branch Relief Society here has just finished another lovely quilt. Several other branches have expressed a desire to make quilts, and we have shown many pictures of quilts from the Magazine." Tulsa Stake, Coffeyville (Kansas) Branch Relief Society Anniversary Observance, March 17, 1967 Left to right: June Hurst, Secretary-Treasurer; Reva Barnhill, Second Counselor; Carlene McWhirt, First Counselor; Inice Bever, President. Virginia Jacobson, President, Tulsa Stake Relief Society, reports: "A threetiered cake, commemorating 125 years of Relief Society, centered the table, flanked by vases of antiqued flowers made by the group at homemaking meetings. The sisters met in the multi-purpose room of their newly completed chapel for a covered-dish dinner at six-thirty. Sister Bever conducted a special program prepared by Eva Howard, after presenting the book "The History of Relief Society,' to the Branch President Eugene G. Carns for the branch library. After the inspiring program, the guests were invited to inspect the displays prepared by each class leader. There was also a display by the music leaders one on home storage." Napa Stake (California), Napa Second Ward Honors Elderly Sisters at Birthday Party, March 17, 1967 Front row, seated, left to right: Flora Wheeler; Elsie Burtis; Alice Barry; Stella Tucker. Back row, standing, left to right: Dora Jensen; Mary Taylor; Lottie Auger; Ethel Holtz. Dorothy Blaisdell, President, Napa Stake Relief Society, reports: "At their lovely birthday party the Napa Second Ward Relief Society presented a short sketch of the life of each of the sisters shown in the picture, and presented each of them a beautiful pink and white carnation corsage. The program continued with the presentation of "The Gift.' Bessie Auger is president of Napa Second Ward Relief Society." 612 August 1967 Anaheim, Fullerton, Garden Grove, Huntington Beach, Santa Ana Stakes Present "Galaxy of Music,"" February 10, 1967 Seated, center front: Florence J. Madsen, of the General Board of Relief Society; on the right: Lois Anderson, President, Fullerton Stake Relief Society; Alberta Gunnell, President, Santa Ana Stake Relief Society; to Sister Madsen's left: Marjorie Kerr, President, Huntington Beach Stake Relief Society; Glenna Woolf, President, Anaheim Stake Relief Society; Afton Minson, President, Garden Grove Stake Relief Society; Alta Sorensen, Anaheim Stake organist; directly in front of Sister Sorensen: Marybeth Done, Anaheim Stake chorister. Sister Woolf reports: "The Anaheim Stake was the hostess for the 'Galaxy of Music' concert held February 10th. The Singing Mothers of Fullerton, Garden Grove, Huntington Beach, and Santa Ana Stakes were invited to participate and enjoy the evening with us, with a total of 182 Singing Mothers from the five stakes. Each stake presented a special song by the Singing Mothers, and also an instrumental number. It was a thrill and a privilege to have Sister Florence J. Madsen with us, and to have her conduct several numbers." South Box Elder Stake (Utah) Pioneer Memorial Nursing Home Relief Society Holds Anniversary Party, March 13, 1967 Standing at the back, officers of the Nursing Home Relief Society, and stake Relief Society president, left to right: Lenora Holmes, organist; Faye Laney, Counselor; Duella Victor, President; Fontella Scofield, Counselor; Iva Lou Nebeker, President, South Box Elder Stake Relief Society. Sister Nebeker reports: "It was a memorable afternoon for the sisters at the nursing home. The Brigham City Fifth Ward Relief Society presented "The' Gift' and it was greatly enjoyed. Easter decorations and a beautiful birthday cake added a decorative touch to the occasion. A number of the sisters have expressed their appreciation of Relief Society and how much the meetings mean to them." Cincinnati Stake (Ohio), Fairborn Ward Bazaar November 1966 Left to right: Janice Wise, homemaking leader; Carol Heinz, Counselor; Mitzi Brandt, President; Glenda Carlson, Counselor. Juanita E. Laurents, President, Cincinnati Stake Relief Society, reports a successful pre-Christmas bazaar which featured smocked pillows, feather flowers, appliqu  tablecloths and runners, embroidered items, special "lovable" handmade toys, and wall hangings for children's rooms. Quilts, aprons, clothing, and decorative figurines were popular, and knitted and crocheted clothing for dolls was an especially "'quick-selling" display. 614 : *, 3 3 | 4 } y * "" August 1967 North Sacramento Stake (California), Roseville Ward Display at "Giant Sidewalk Bazaar,'' October 1966 Freda Thayne, President, North Sacramento Stake Relief Society, submits a report from the Roseville Ward Relief Society: "For the last four years, in October, the Roseville Ward Relief Society has been invited to participate in a giant bazaar. It is held on the sidewalk of the local shopping square and is for nonprofit organizations only. We have enjoyed the opportunity of not only being able to sell our needlework, crafts, and baked goods to the public, but also we feel that our participation is an exceedingly good missionary tool. We have been top prize winners each time. Last year we used a large hive as our theme. This year, we chose to pattern our booth after the poem 'Sing a Song of Sixpence,' representing a giant pie with a garden attached. We displayed our baked goods on the piecrust, and our needlework in the garden where '... The maid was hanging out the clothes.' "' 616 SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 82 Preparing for the Redemption of Zion Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 105) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman learns from the experiences of the saints in former days under persecutions brought on by transgressions, that she must be obedient to present-day commandments if she would have a part in the redemption of Zion. Note (Summary of Terms): In this lesson the word ''Zion'' has been used with different meanings according to the context in which it appears in the respective scriptures. By way of summary, Zion means: (1) the center-place in Jackson County, Missouri; (2) The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and (3) the members of the Church who are pure in heart. INTRODUCTION The fact that the saints in the early part of this dispensation suffered persecution is consistent with other dispensations of the gospel. A characteristic of the true Church is the persecution that it suffers. Physical persecution causing suffering of body was the lot of the saints who were sent from Jackson County, Missouri. In subsequent years this tribulation did not cease. It is true that the form of persecution has changed today, but it remains, especially in some mission fields of the Church. Furthermore the Savior said: And blessed are all they who are persecuted for my name's sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake; For ye shall have great joy and be exceeding glad, for great shall be your reward in heaven; for so persecuted they the prophets who were before you (3 Nephi 12:10-12; cf. Matt. 5:10-12). 617 August 1967 Class Discussion Discuss evidence as to why you believe persecution has been the lot of the faithful. THE ULTIMATE BLESSING To be persecuted for a cause, though righteous, does not merit the fulness of the Lord's glory. The ultimate blessing comes through obedience to the Lord Jesus Christ. Though one may perform good works for his fellow man, if he does not follow Christ, he can not obtain the ultimate blessing. (D&C 84:49-53.) The things of God are known by the gospel of Jesus Christ. So emphatic was the Nephite Prophet Moroni on this truth that he said: for everything which inviteth to do good, and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the power and gift of Christ; wherefore ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of God. But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ, and deny him, and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil... (Moroni 7:16-17). The celestial law that provides all glory, all mysteries, and all powers is founded upon the redemptive act of Jesus Christ. Acceptance of his atonement comes through obedience to the principles and ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ. (D&C 76:50-62; 1-10.) To be truly accepted of the Lord is to follow this path. ZION'S CAMP Because of the persecution of the saints in Jackson County in the fall of 1833, the Lord gave a revelation, on February 24, 1834, that called upon the Church to organize a company of men to assist the saints in Missouri by 618 peaceful means. (Ibid., 103:30- 36.) The Church was to send agents throughout its. Branches to collect money for the purchase of lands in Missouri whereon the saints might settle. (Ibid., v. 23.) What has become known as Zion's Camp was to include five hundred volunteers, but, if fewer than one hundred volunteered, the Camp should not be organized. (Ibid., 30-34.) Leaving in the month of May 1834, the Camp enrolled two hundred and five members, but fewer than this number arrived in Missouri, in June 1834, due to fourteen deaths resulting from cholera' which struck the group because of dissensions within the Camp. By divine intervention the Camp was protected by a severe storm which dispersed mobbers who vowed to destroy its members. While Zion's Camp was located at Fishing River, June 22, 1834, the Prophet received what is known as Section 105. Class Discussion Discuss why the Church was under condemnation in 1834. "THE TRANSGRESSIONS OF MY PEOPLE"' Uppermost in the minds of Zion's Camp was the redemption of Zion (Jackson County). For this purpose these brethren had traveled hundreds of miles to assist in that redemption. The cause of the persecutions and drivings from that place is reiterated in this revelation. Six months before this time, the Lord had also revealed some information upon this subject. (D&C 101: 1-8.) Obedience to the command- ments given for the redemption of Zion would have brought about her redemption at that time, said the Lord. Behold, I say unto you, were it not for the trangressions of my people, speaking concerning the church and not individuals, they might have been redeemed even now (Ibid., 105:2). What brought about the condition which made the Lord speak of the Church as being in transgression? His answer is found in the revelations accounting for the persecutions that came upon the people in Zion. They had "not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands" (D&C 105:3). What was required? The Church was required not only to live the moral commandments, but also to live the law of consecration as explained principally in Section 42. No one was exempt from living that law in that day. (D&C 70:10; 85:1-8.) The members of the Church had been commanded to gather to appointed places where they could live the laws that would bring a fulness of blessings. But in this command-. Ment the Church failed because the members were not united as required by the law of the celestial kingdom. (Ibid., 105: 3-5.) Important for all of us is to live the laws of the Lord which are in force at the time. WITHHOLDING ASSISTANCE The Church failed to live the law of consecration, and, when persecution came, the commandment was given that the branches of the Church should contribute money that land might be purchased whereon the persecuted saints might settle. (Ibid., 103: Lesson Department 23.) The Prophet Joseph Smith and other elders traveled among the branches of the Church to obtain money for this purpose. _Their efforts were not always successful. In fact, the Lord reminded the people that the branches of the Church must learn obedience even by chastening, if necessary, for there were many who said: "Where is their God? Behold, he will deliver them in time of trouble, otherwise we will not go up unto Zion, and will keep our moneys" (Jbid., 105:8). Whether the circumstance is physical persecution as in the days of Missouri, or poverty caused by other reasons, as of today, the saints are always under obligation to assist their fellow Church members. Class Discussion What opportunities are given to members today to assist their fellow members? A TRIAL OF FAITH There are many times when members of the Church have their faith tried. It may be when they are confronted with the temptation to sin by breaking a commandment. To spend tithing money for some other purpose may be an example. Whatever the temptation, faith is tried. In the Missouri period of the Church, the members had their trial of faith when the Lord asked for money to help the persecuted saints. The men who were asked to volunteer for Zion's Camp had their faith tested also. Those who accepted this call to service and proved faithful to their responsibilities, were accepted of the Lord. (D&C 105:19.) 619 August 1967 Relief Society sisters who show their faith by their works find greater opportunity for service in the kingdom. To assist in the welfare of others as a teacher or leader in the Church is the reward of faith. The trial of faith received by the men in Zion's Camp prepared many for responsible positions in the Church. Most of the Twelve Apostles and many of the First Council of Seventy were selected from that group. WHAT IS NECESSARY TO REDEEM ZION The Lord declared that Zion's redemption, the building of the City of Zion, would not be realized in 1834 due to the transgressions of his people. (D&C 105:9.) It was also said that the elders would have to be endowed "with power from on high" (Ibid., 105:11) before this was possible. Let us consider the Lord's reasons why Zion was not redeemed in 1834 and think of those reasons as necessary for the preparation of Latter-day Saints today that this goal might yet be attained. First, they must be taught the commandments and _ their duties more perfectly; second, they must have experience; third, the Church membership must be "very great'; and fourth, they must be sanctified. (D&C 105:10, 31.) THEY MUST BE PREPARED The Lord said his people must "wait for a little season for the redemption of Zion" (Ibid., 105: 9). In the meantime, however, it was necessary that they make every preparation to fulfill this prophecy. Before the Church was organ- 620 ized there was a preparation going on in the lives of many people who later would make contributions to the building of Zion upon the earth. One of these was Hyrum Smith, the Prophet's brother. The following advice to him is pertinent to all members of the Church. Build upon my rock, which is my gospel; Deny not the spirit of revelation, nor the spirit of prophecy, for wo unto him that denieth these things; Therefore, treasure up in your heart until the time which is in my wisdom that you shall go forth. Behold, I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap (Ibid., 11:24-27). Essential to living the gospel in daily life is to enjoy the spirit of revelation. President Lorenzo Snow suggested in the following words the importance of that spirit: There is a way by which persons can keep their consciences clear before God and man, and that is to preserve within them the spirit of God, which is the spirit of revelation to every man and woman. It will reveal to them, even in the simplest of matters, what they shall do, by making suggestions to them. We should try to learn the nature of this spirit, that we may understand its suggestions, and then we will always be able to do right. This is the grand privilege of every Latterday Saint. We know that it is our right to have the manifestations of the spirit every day of our lives(Conference Report April 1899, p. 52). THEY MUST BE TAUGHT Contrary to the situation which prevailed in 1834 when all members of the Church were converts, several generations of members have grown up in the Church. There has been time for the teachings of the gospel to become second nature to the member. Through Priesthood quorums and auxiliary organizations opportunities for learning are made ayvyailable from birth to the end of life. The women of the Relief Society are being prepared in facets of gospel living. There is an abundance of instruction in gospel principles and their application in the lives of members through the organizations of the Church. As a Relief Society member participates more fully, her ability to understand and apply the principles of the gospel becomes greater. The impress made by these Church organizations depends upon two factors. First, the strength of the desire to learn and, second, the skill and dedication of the teacher. It is well to ask if we are following the counsel of the Lord in the way to become instructed to 'seek learning, even by study and also by faith" (D&C 88:118). THEY MUST HAVE EXPERIENCE Preparation for success in learning duties and commandments is closely related to the second lesson to be learned to have experience. The law of consecration, called the United Order, is one of the laws to be lived when Zion is redeemed. Insufficient experience in the principles of this order as they apply to individual worthiness and the mechanics of operating the order contributed to the earlier failure. As an example, since 1936, the ChurchWelfare Program has given the Church considerable experience in the operation of numerous projects designed to take care of those in need. Not only has this type of experience been gained by Lesson Department Church leaders, but also the members of the Church have learned that obedience to the counsel of the living prophets has brought numerous blessings. They have had the principle of work made more meaningful in their lives. Also, concern for their neighbors has been emphasized as a part of living. It is well to ask ourselves what contribution we have been making to the Welfare Program. Have we contributed to the building of Zion upon the earth by making this kind of offering to the Lord? MEMBERSHIP "VERY GREAT'' The number of members of the Church in 1834 is unknown, but 1200 Saints were driven from Jackson County, and a few years later when Nauvoo, Illinois, was at its peak, nearly 20,000 members left that place. With the present Church membership of nearly two and one-half million and a steady annual increase of nearly 100,000 converts, it is suggested that the Lord's army is "very great," when compared with the membership of 1834. How are converts added to the growing kingdom of God? First by a dedicated missionary corps who are generally supported by parents who are thus contributing to the building of Zion upon the earth. Second, by the referral system of helping missionaries receive "golden" contacts; and third, by living the teachings of the gospel so well that people become attracted to the Church. TO BECOME SANCTIFIED Finally, the Lord told the early saints that, in addition to his Church becoming "very great," 621 August 1967 the members should become "sanctified before me" (D&C 105: 31). Numerical strength without quality of life would not bring about the Zion which is defined as "THE PURE IN HEART" ([bid., 97:21). In the beginning of the dispensation, the Lord revealed that men become justified through Jesus Christ. ([bid., 20: 29-31.) This justification is brought about by the atonement which he made for man. When men completely respond to the commandments of the gospel, they may become sanctified. The principle of sanctification means that one becomes so immersed in the life of the gospel of Jesus Christ that he becomes purified, holy. He yields his heart to God. (Helaman 3:35.) This is not the sanctification interpreted as being filled with the Spirit on a certain occasion, but is the quality of holiness that comes through keeping the Lord's commandments. Moral cleanliness and devotion to responsibilities received as a worker in the kingdom are essential to us as women. Keeping one's mind single to God is the way to sanctification. Such single-mindedness involves (a) walking uprightly before the Lord, seeking to know his will through study, praying unceasingly, recognizing that salvation comes only through Jesus Christ; (b) doing one's duty to bring about a change from the carnal to the spiritual state. To be "born again" (Mosiah 27:25) by the Spirit (Holy Ghost) is a qualification to be sanctified. To become a new creature in Jesus Christ is essential to ''inherit the kingdom of God" (Mosiah 27: 26). The meaning of being sancti- 622 fied by the Spirit is expressed in Section 88 in the following words: my voice is Spirit; my Spirit is truth; truth abideth and hath no end; and if it be in you it shall abound. And if your eye be single to my glory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light comprehendeth all things. Therefore, sanctify yourselves that your minds become single to God, and the days will come that you shall see him; for he will unveil his face unto you, and it shall be in his own time, and in his own way, and according to his own will (D&C 88:66-68). To redeem Zion presupposes that members of the Church become dedicated to the objectives of the gospel, receive sanctification, and enjoy the power that comes through righteous living. Class Discussion Discuss how women in the Church are making progress in preparation for the building of Zion.: IMPLEMENTATION Among the many privileges of the member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to be a participant in the events foreseen by prophets of old. One of these is the preparation for the building of the city of Zion, the New Jerusalem, in Jackson County, Missouri. The following words of President Joseph F. Smith give us a picture of what is needed to help in the redemption of Zion. But when shall I be prepared to go there? Not while I have in my heart the love of this world more than the love of God. Not while I am possessed of that selfishness and greed that would induce me to cling to the world or my possessions in it, at the sacrifice of principle or truth. But when I am ready to say, "Father, all that I have, myself included, is Thine; my time, my substance, everything that I possess is on the altar, to be used freely, agreeable to Thy holy will, and not my will, but Thine, be done," then perhaps I will be prepared to go and help to reLesson Department deem Zion (Millennial Star 56:385- 386). When a Latter-day Saint woman is committed to this objective, there is always zeal and enthusiasm for the principles and programs of the Church. Her life becomes gospel-centered. She listens to and obeys the voice of the Lord through his servants. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths To Live By Message 2 Love a Way to Salvation Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 OBJECTIVE: God revealed through his Son Jesus Christ that the basic principle of his kingdom is love. Others to obtain salvation. Is love rare? Do we deceive ourselves about how we love? Half of the hospital beds in the United States are occupied by the emotionally ill. The offices of psychiatrists and counselors are jammed with the mentally distressed. Crime rates soar alarmingly. Thousands are killed on our highways each year through careless driving. What is true in the United States finds its sad counterpart in other countries of the world. More than half of the world's people go to bed hungry each night. Almost daily revolutions and wars painfully remind us that man finds it increasingly difficult to love God, himself, or his neighbor. By implementing this principle, we help ourselves and Israelites, immersed in their love of the Torah, the law of Moses, had lost sight of God's purpose in the adoption of the philosophy of an "Eye for eye, tooth for tooth" (Exodus 21:24). Jesus taught them that they had strayed from the essence of God's teachings which is the love of God, of self, and of neighbor. Has our own generation also strayed? Do we understand love? The scriptures repeatedly define love: the busy, despised Samaritan who took time to rescue the injured and abused; the father of the prodigal son who accepted his repentant son wholeheartedly and without scolding; the woman taken in adultery who was shown mercy and _ under- 623 August 1967 standing; the concern for children when Jesus gathered them to him over his disciples' protest; the necessity of seeking knowledge and understanding when Martha was gently rebuked; Jesus as he hung on the cross sacrificing his life for the love of God and his purposes. Did Jesus have more time than we? Was his life less precious? What matters our new dress, car, or television set, or the cake we are mixing, if our neighbor needs us, if our friend is in distress, if our child needs us to listen, or if halfway around the world a man starves? We will save ourselves and others when we show mercy, use wisdom, accept and seek repentance, extend forgiveness to all, and are actively, daily, responsibly caring for others. '"'Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Matt. 25:40). HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 2 Family Protection Insurance Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 OBJECTIVE: To show the need for insurance in family protection. NOTE: There will be need for this lesson to be adapted to the country, state, and local laws. Emphasis in the lesson should be placed on the importance of providing for family protection in any eventuality. INTRODUCTION In our present-day living, the term security has taken on so much importance that it has become almost a byword. The dictionary tells us that security is being free from fear, care, danger, or doubt, and the assurance of safety. The Latter-day Saint woman is one who wants to do something about her family's security instead of just worrying about it. During the past several months we have been emphasizing the im- 624 portance of a sound financial program in the management of a home and family. One of. The most important of these considerations is that of insurance protection, without which no family financial plan is complete. Years ago, financial insurance was looked upon as a death benefit only. Today, however, a wise insurance program will protect against the misfortunes and accidents that occur in life, as well. Young people, in particular, tend to neglect this most important form of insurance the kind which offers protection if and when anything happens sharply to reduce or cut off the family income. Example A young husband, who had a substantial life insurance policy which would provide amply for his wife and family in the event of his death, suffered a broken leg while working on a home project and was unable to work for over six months. During this period his accumulated savings were used up, and he was forced to ask for a loan to carry his financial responsibilities until he could go back to his work. When we think of insurance, we should consider it in all its aspects. To bear alone the burden of property damage and loss, or of liability for harm caused to others is usually beyond our individual capacity. The function of insurance is to distribute these risks of loss among a large number of people under like circumstances. The premiums paid by policyholders create the funds which will be used to protect those who are struck by misfortune. KINDS OF INSURANCE 1. Life Insurance is of primary importance since it provides protection for the family in the event of the death of the breadwinner. There are four basic types of life insurance policies from which to choose. A. Straight or ordinary Life Insurance: With this policy the holder pays a premium every year throughout his life so that his beneficiaries will be paid the full value of the policy at his death. This is the least expensive form of permanent life insurance, as far as Lesson Department premium payments are concerned. It is the foundation upon which the average family can build a sound insurance program. B. Limited Payment Life Insurance: This has the same features as the ~ above, except that it is paid for in a certain number of payments. For example, a twenty-payment life policy would be paid for in twenty years, but the policy remains in force for its full value for the rest of the insured's life. This type of policy is a good investment for those who wish to complete their payments during their best earning years. C. Endowment Policies: For a _ premium paid over a certain number of years, the insured receives at the end of that time the full value of the policy. If he should die before the end of that period, his beneficiary receives the full amount of the policy. An endowment policy not only provides insurance protection for the dependents, but it also provides a means of accumulating a specified sum of money to be available at a definite time. Although more costly than other forms of insurance, this is a wise method of saving money for the future for those who find it hard to save. D. Term Insurance: This is temporary insurance which has no cash surrender values. If the holder dies within the specified period, his dependents receive the full amount of the policy. This form of insurance provides a death benefit only and has no cash value. It serves as a protection against the death of the family provider, or as an assurance that certain business obligations or a possible mortgage will be covered in the event of the death of the family head. E. Special Policies: Many insurance companies issue policies based on the four standard types and designed to give extra protection during the growing years of the family. Also, Group Insurance policies are issued to employees of various firms and organizations under conditions favorable to the holders. 2. Medical and Hospital Insur- 625 August 1967 ance should cover all family members and pay medical expenses that would be a hardship to meet out of current income or emergency savings. 3. Accident Insurance is insurance against personal injury or death caused by accident. Our mechanical age has added many previously unknown hazards to our lives and created a great demand for this type of insurance. 4. Personal Liability or Casualty Insurance concerns itself with the protection of individuals from claims against them arising from damage or harm to the person or property of others. This includes the all-too-frequent car accident, the fall on a defective step or walk, the injured workman, food poisoning in a restaurant, and other accidents. 5. Burglary, Robbery, and Theft Insurance will protect the holder in case his possessions furniture, clothing, jewels, cameras, and other effects are stolen or if he suffers any other loss through fire, for example. HOW TO OBTAIN INSURANCE Well-established, commercial insurance companies usually handle all the basic types of policies, and there are always several agents in every community of any size, no matter where one lives. Reputable insurance companies are regulated by laws that protect our interests. We should make sure that any company we deal with is licensed in our state, or in our country. Discuss the kinds of insurance that would have prevented finan- 626 cial loss in the following. Examples: A. In a family car accident, a young son was injured to such a degree that he required months of hospital care, many costly blood transfusions, and expensive surgery. The accumulated bills amounted to several thousand dollars   more than his parents had been able to save in all the years they had been married. B. While Mr. Jones was in the process of remodeling his home, a milkman tripped on a loose board and fell, fracturing his skull. He was in the hospital for several months. He sued the home owner for $4,000 to cover his lost wages, $2,000 for medical and hospital bills, and $30,000 to compensate for the permanent damage to his health. C. A young couple left their apartment to spend the Christmas holidays with their parents in a neighboring state. Upon their return, they found their apartment completely stripped of furniture, clothing, linens, personal effects everything of value was gone. Appeals to the police were fruitless, and nothing was recovered. CONCLUSION No one is immune to disaster of one kind or another, and when it occurs, its consequences are likely to be many and varied. In addition to the personal tragedies of pain and sorrow and death, there are often serious financial complications and losses. The experience of the past several hundred years has developed the practice of insurance to protect us against just such losses. We need to make certain that our insurance program gives our families the right kind of protection and the most for our money. CAUTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS 1. Do not carry more insurance than you can afford. Consider the needs and the goals of the family in determining this. 2. Review all of your policies, with your agent, at least every five years. Insurance plans need revision with every change in the vital statistics of the family. Lesson Department 3. Remember that in insurance, the same money can be used for two advantages protection and income or savings. 4. Understand your insurance policies _and make sure of their cash values from time to time. SOCIAL RELATIONS A Light Unto the World Lesson 2 "'And Also By Faith" Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman may know the blessing of truth revealed or reaffirmed, through the exercise of faith. Lesson Follow-up: A brief report (3 or 4 minutes) by a class member appraising her current study or leisure reading, and giving one specific truth obtained. INTRODUCTION In addition to study as a means of acquiring knowledge, we are commanded to seek learning through the exercise of faith. The Latter-day Saint woman who lives worthily and who exercises faith in her search for knowledge may be blessed with divine guidance. Introducing this lesson are two life incidents on the exercise of faith: 1. The Testimony of a Young Woman Convert (illustrative of numerous like testimonies) Mary M. States: My husband is an atheist and consequently ridicules my belief in the gospel and the divinity of Jesus Christ. But deep within myself, I know that the gospel is true. This truth has been made as manifest to me, in answer to my earnest prayer, as if vocally spoken and affirmed by some unseen person. Although I was the only member of the Church in our city for over five years, my faith in this truth has never weakened. I know that the gospel and the plan of salvation are true. Discuss briefly the strength of such a testimony and her statement after being baptized and confirmed: I believe that having become receptive to things of the spirit, and because of my faith and earnest prayers, the Holy Ghost enlightened me far beyond my own power of discernment. Question: Have you had the experience of suddenly obtaining insight relative to a particular problem? 627 August 1967 2. A Testimony of The Book of Mormon Shared With a Chance Acquaintance. A day's journey by train. Usually gave Mrs. A. An opportunity to finish the book she was reading and to do some rereading of certain scripture. She had made it a habit of late, to carry one of the standard works of the Church with her when she traveled. Now, as she opened The Book of Mormon and began to read, the woman sitting beside her said, "I have heard about that book you are reading, but have never seen it before. Have you read it?" "Yes, indeed I have,' Mrs. A. Answered, "some parts of it many times. Perhaps you would like to read my copy?" As a result of the conversation which followed, the woman spent several hours that day reading in this latterday translated scripture. Finally, she said, '""This is very interesting, do you believe it to be true?" "T do," with emphasis. "I sincerely believe it to be true." "You, no doubt, have been taught that it is true, since you say that your Church accepts it as scripture. But how could I, or anyone else, not a member of your faith, know that it is the truth?" Mrs. A. Was grateful that she recalled now, the important passage in Moroni which would answer this question specifically. Quickly she opened the book to find the following passage which gives the conditions on which an individual testimony of the truth of The Book of Mormon may be obtained. And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost (Moroni 10:4). The woman reread the passage indicated, then she said, "I believe there is a God, but I am not what one might call a praying woman. Would I need 628 to pray vocally in order to receive this assurance?" Question: What would you have answered? Two significant elements are present in this Book of Mormon scripture, (1) that we ask witha sincere heart, having faith in Christ; (2) that by the power of the Holy Ghost we may know the truth of all things. This indicates clearly that faith is a prerequisite to enlightenment by the Holy Ghost. Class Discussion 1. What may the woman in the foregoing incident need to do in order to receive a testimony of the divinity of The Book of Mormon? 2. What procedure would you recommend for any woman whose faith is weak, but who expresses the desire for greater faith? Be specific. 3. What are the comparative merits to be found in the following statements, relative to increasing one's faith? Friend A: I am doubtful about certain principles of the gospel, so I am reading everything pro and con about the Church that I can find. When my faith is stronger I shall accept Church assignments. Friend B: I do not understand certain principles of the gospel, but I am trying to live the commandments, doing whatever is asked of me. I believe that through this obedience the Lord will help me to understand all that is needful for me to understand about the gospel in this life. 4. Is either of these women actively seeking to "know" by faith? Discuss. FAITH, THE FOUNDATION Since the objective of this lesson concerns the search for truth by faith, it may be helpful to define faith. One definition, given in an unabridged dictionary of the English language (Webster's New International, 2nd Edition) is: "The fact of accepting or the disposition to accept as real, true... That which is not supported - by sensible evidence or rational proofs or which is indemonstrable."' All Christendom is familiar with the definition of faith given by the apostle Paul: "Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen" (Hebrews 11:1). From a less familiar but significant and comprehensive analysis of faith appearing in Lectures on Faith given at the School of the Prophets in Kirtland, Ohio, we select the following statements and questions: Faith being the first principle in revealed religion, and the foundation of all righteousness, necessarily claims the first place in a course of lectures which are designed to unfold to the understanding the doctrine of Jesus Christ (Lectures on Faith, N. B. Lundwall, compiler and publisher, Salt Lake City, Utah, p. 7). Referring to Paul's definition of faith the statement continues: From this we learn that faith is the assurance which men have of the existence of things which they have not seen, and the principle of action in all intelligent beings... Lt is faith, and faith only, which is the moving cause of all action.. And as faith is the moving cause of all action in temporal concerns, so it is In spiritual. But faith is not only the principle of action, but of power also, in all intelligent beings, whether in heaven or on earth. Faith, then, is the first great governing principle which has power, dominion, and authority over all things; by it they exist, by it they are upheld, by it they are changed, or by it they remain, agreeable to the will of God. Lesson Department Without it there is no power, and without power there could be no creation nor existence (Ibid., pp. 7, 8, 10). Without going into the analysis technically, it may be well to emphasize the fact that faith is the moving cause for action in temporal concerns as well as in spiritual matters. As application of the temporal, surely we may say that man plants the dormant seed with faith that he will reap a harvest. Would Columbus have ventured upon uncharted seas had he not believed that he would prove, that he would find? From Lectures on Faith we read:... Would you have ever planted, if you had not believed that you would gather? Would you have ever asked, unless you had believed that you would receive (Ibid., p. 8)? Likewise, in the search for spiritual truth, we must be motivated by faith that we shall reap a spiritual harvest. BY ALL WHO BELIEVE We ordinarily think of learning as knowledge which is acquired by systematic study or by experience, and the learning process as one of gradually becoming aware of what previously was obscure, concealed, and unknown. In the scripture under consideration, the Lord admonishes us also to become aware of truth which was heretofore not understood or known to us, through the medium of faith in addition to or in leu of the printed word. Revelation and inspiration are gifts of the spirit and are so acknowledged by all who have faith  who believe in the Father and in the Son. The atheist, on the other hand, does not believe in 629 August 1967 divine communication because he rejects the very existence of God. The Latter-day Saint woman may know through gospel teaching and through her own experience, that the gifts of the spirit are a reality. Not only does she acknowledge this, but she seeks to know, personally, through the exercise of her faith, the blessing of divine communication. She may know truth, revealed or reaffirmed, through the exercise of her personal faith. What truth, what learning will she likely seek to acquire? Class Involvement Involve the class, through discussion of the following, with this question in mind: In your opinion, would the following situations be embraced in the directive to "seek learning by faith" (D&C 88:118)? If so, why? If not, what would? 1. The woman desiring better to understand a particular gospel principle. 2. The mother desiring guidance as to the proper procedure in handling a difficult family problem. 3. The single woman needing guidance in making an important choice or decision relative to her personal life. 4. The student feeling the need for special assistance in recalling facts for an examination, or similar situation. 5. The woman of middle years wanting to learn how to feel less dependent upon her married children. 6. The woman facing a Church activity problem who feels the need for divine help in making that decision. 7. The grandmother who sincerely wants to learn how best to assist her married children, yet not interfere with their lives. 8. The Relief Society officer who faces a misunderstanding situation and feels the need for divine guidance in resolving this problem of personality conflict. Others may be added. 630 "SEEK, AND YE SHALL FIND" (Matt. 7:7) It is of special interest to observe how important the 'seeking" is to the "finding" of a truth to be obtained by faith. The yearning to know, expressed in the sincere prayer of faith that precedes the bestowal of truth is fundamental in the Lord's promise, "... Seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Matt. 7:7). Among the many examples which are relevant the following is particularly illustrative. Here the prophet Alma, calling upon the Nephites to repent, and testifying of predictions which are to come, states: Do ye not suppose that I know of these things myself? Behold, I testify unto you that I do know that these things whereof I have spoken are true. And how do ye suppose that I know of their surety? Behold, I say unto you they are made known unto me by the Holy Spirit of God. Behold, I have fasted and prayed many days that I might know these things of myself. And now I do know of myself that they are true (Alma 5:45-46). Class Involvement Excellent examples of spiritual learning sought and knowledge acquired through the exercise of faith, may be found in the area of missionary service of the Church. Discuss the need for divine help for the two following individuals: 1. A young missionary entering the mission field with a limited knowledge of gospel principles but who has an earnest desire to understand and teach those principles. He also has a difficult language to learn. 2. The investigator-woman who is receptive to the gospel message, but who has so much opposition from family members and friends that she feels she must have a feeling of inner surety. BEYOND THE REACH OF MAN Tremendous strides have been ~ and are at present being made by man in the field of scientific investigation. Witness the truths regarding the universe which are being brought to light through orbiting satellites in outer space, photographing the surface of the moon, recording atmospheric conditions and returning to earth other important data. Consider also the advances made in other areas of scientific research, including the knowledge of the flora and fauna of the earth and of the culture and nature of its inhabitants. In spite of these advances, however, the most significant truths regarding the existence and nature of God, the Creator, and of the gospel of his Son, the Redeemer, have come to man through direct revelation. Much truth is beyond the reach of man, in his present state of mortality, unless revealed to him through the power of the Holy Ghost. We marvel with reverence as we read of the brother of Jared in Book of Mormon times and of the boy Prophet in this dispensation, to whom the heavens were opened because of their great faith, nothing doubting. In The Book of Mormon we read: (have a class member read) And never have I showed myself unto man whom I have created, for never has man believed in me as thou hast. Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image? Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image (Ether 3:15). Familiar to Latter-day Saints Lesson Department is the fact that to the Prophet Joseph Smith was granted a similar manifestation. To him were revealed the Father and the risen Lord bringing to the world truth he could not have received from study of any source current in his day. TO WHOM AND WHAT REVEALED Revelation for the benefit of the Church is given directly to the President of the Church. The Lord's house is a house of order and the right to receive such revelation belongs to one appointed and sustained to represent the membership of the Church one who holds all keys of the Holy Pnesthood. But to all who believe, who have sufficient faith, and who live worthily, divine guidance may be given. This is according to the Lord's promise. CONCLUSION Seeking knowledge by study and seeking it by faith may become so closely allied as to be inseparable, and an individual's spiritual faith may become so strengthened through a study of the writings of Church leaders, that his ability to perceive and receive even greater spiritual truth is increased. Thus study and faith as a means of obtaining truth become interrelated. Having the inherent ability to learn and to progress, we have the obligation to put forth the effort to do so. One of the most poignant of comments is this: "If I had only known." It not only is a here-and-now advantage to acquire knowledge, but to possess knowledge is of eternal value. This truth is inherent in the gos- 631 August 1967 pel plan and is affirmed in these words given us through the Prophet: Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come (D&C 130: 18-19). It is of even greater eternal advantage to an individual to possess wisdom, for wisdom results from knowledge gained by study, experience, and also by faith, which is wisely used for the good of man. FOR HOME DOING Appraise your own personal need for spiritual help, then ask yourself: 1. Do I ask the Lord in humble prayer, having faith, or do I take the attitude that he knows my needs? 2. Do I gratefully acknowledge the divine assistance received in specific instances, or do I take this blessing for granted? 3. Do I help my children to know of this great blessing, dependent upon their faith? CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas) Lesson 2 ''Honesty, a Measure of Life'' Dr. Bruce B. Clark "The measure of life is not length, but honesty."'  John Lyly Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that as she is honest with herself, a woman helps others to value the sincere and trustworthy. She should recognize dishonesty in all its forms and thus be more fully honest in all that she does, says, and is. (To Class Leader: This month's lesson includes four selections two poems and two short stories. All of these are printed, with full comments and questions for discussion, in Section Two of Volume 3 Out of the Best Books. Also included as part of this lesson is a consideration of the painting ''The Holy Family" by Andrea del Sarto, as printed on page 433 of the June 1967 Relief Society Magazine.) A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, GENERAL COMMENT In the Old Testament, in Proverbs 6:16-19, we read: An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in runThese six things doth the Lorp hate: ning to mischief, yea, seven are an abomination unto him: A false witness that speaketh lies, 632 and he that soweth discord among brethren. Note that two of the seven "abominations" explicitly refer to the evil of dishonesty ''a lying tongue" and ''a false witness that speaketh lies.'' Three others seem also to involve forms of dishonesty '"'an heart that deviseth wicked imaginations," "feet that be swift in running to mischief," and "he that soweth discord among brethren." The Bible is filled with reminders from the Lord and his prophets that we should cultivate honesty and avoid dishonesty. Literature, also, is abundantly concerned with honesty as an ideal and dishonesty, in all its forms, as an evil. If we were just to list the great works of literature that in one way or another are concerned with honesty and dishonesty, we would have room for nothing else in this lesson. Through literature we have faith with Cervantes in Don Quixote that "honesty is the best policy." We painfully learn with Huck in Mark Twain's Huckleberry Finn that "'you can't pray a lie.'"' We recognize with Alexander Pope in "An Essay on Man" that 'an honest man's the noblest work of God." We may, however, feel that Hamlet is too disillusioned when in his feigned madness he says to Polonius, ""To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man plucked out of ten thousand"' (Hamlet, Act II, Scene 2). There may be those who agree with Stuart Chase in his famous essay "The Luxury of Integrity," written a few years ago, that anyone who wishes to be scrupulously and undeviatingly honest must be willing to pay the price which ~~ Temptations to Lesson Department means adherence to principle, resistance to temptation, and refusal to compromise integrity at whatever cost and at all times. Compromise honesty confront all of us daily. If we are to be fully honest we must be honest in all areas: Honest with one's self. Honest with one's family. Honest with one's associates. Honest with the Lord. Honest in one's actions. Honest in one's speech Honest in one's thoughts. Perhaps the hardest of all is to be honest in one's thoughts and honest with one's self and with the Lord. Especially is this so because pride and selfishness distort our thoughts. Sometimes, like James Thomson in the following humorous lines, we even let pride exaggerate our sins: Once in a saintly passion I cried with desperate grief, "O Lord, my heart is black with guile, Of sinners I am chief." Then stooped my guardian angel And whispered from behind, "Vanity, my little man, You're nothing of the kind."' To explore such problems of honesty, and to make us more sensitive in these areas, we now turn to the two stories and two poems. "THE WALTZ" BY DOROTHY PARKER This first selection is a clever, humorous story vividly showing the temptation that constantly confronts us to think one thing and say another. Unfortunately, the story is too long to print here, but studying it in Out of the Best Books will impress every reader with the extreme contrast be- 633 August 1967 tween what the woman in the story says and what she thinks. For Discussion Should we speak our honest thoughts even though others will be offended by what we say? Does courteous small talk involve dishonesty? Someone says "'How are you?" and you answer "I am fine,' even though you have a severe headache. Or someone says "How do you like my hat?" and you answer "I think it is very lovely," even though secretly you think it is unattractive and in bad taste. Are there times when it is best to be silent and other times when it is necessary to speak out? RICHARD CORY Whenever Richard Cory went down town, We people on the pavement looked at him: He was a gentleman from sole to crown, Clean favored, and imperially slim. And he was always quietly arrayed, And he was always human when he talked; But still he fluttered pulses when he said, "Good-morning," and he glittered when he walked. And he was rich yes, richer than a king  And admirably schooled in every grace: In fine, we thought that he was everything To make us wish that we were in his place. So on we worked, and waited for the light, And went without the meat, and cursed the bread; And Richard Cory, one calm summer night, Went home and put a bullet through his head. 634 (From The Children of the Night, 1897, reprinted by permission of Charles Scribner's Sons.) As will be evident to anyone who reads it, "Richard Cory" by the powerful American poet Edwin Arlington Robinson (1869- 1935), is a very adroit and excellent little poem, especially made so by its closing two lines. We have included it in this lesson, however, not for its adroitness but for its insight. To all who looked at him, Richard Cory seemed to have everything wealth, health, culture, happiness, composure, even elegance. And yet, "'one calm summer night" he ''went home and put a bullet through his head." The point of the poem is, of course, that we cannot judge a person accurately by external appearances. To do so is not only unfair but in a sense dishonest. We have judged on superficial, incomplete evidence and is not this a kind of dishonesty? The conclusion is that we should be very hesitant to judge people by how they look, or to envy people for what they seem to have and we don't have. There is no place for envy and jealousy in the world, but there is never enough genuine understanding, friendship, compassion, and help. Sometimes a smiling face conceals a crying, lonely, troubled heart. For Discussion Analyze "Richard Cory" closely. To what extent do people reveal their inner natures in their outer appearances? Is it true that neither books nor people should be judged by their covers? "ANDREA DEL SARTO" BY ROBERT BROWNING The most difficult selection in this month's lesson is this brilliant, famous dramatic monologue by the great Robert Browning. Readers will undoubtedly be intrigued by its challenge, artistic richness, and psychological complexity. Again, the poem is too long to print here but is included, with full notes and discussion, in Out of the Best Books. The poem relates to honesty because it portrays the life and personality of an Italian Renaissance painter, Andrea del Sarto (1486-1531), who, although he painted with flawless craftsmanship, lacked the integrity and strength of character to be either a great artist or a great man. As a young painter Andrea did brilliant work, displaying not only obvious genius but also a buoyant creative joy. In his later work, however, the flawless craftsmanship remained but the zest and creative joy were gone. Many have felt that an unhappy marriage stifled Andrea's_ creative powers. The fire of an unhealthy love consumed his genius and left only the burnt ashes of his craftsmanship. Above all else, in Browning's poem we see the pathetic weakness of Andrea his rationalizing as he alternately blames God, his wife, and others for his failure; his vacillating self-pity and his arrogance; his pride as a _ skilled craftsman mixed with his futile yearning to match Raphael, Michelangelo, and Leonardo da Vinci as great painters; his flashes of genuine recognition of weaknesses in himself as painter and man; Lesson Department and, most of all, his mixture of honesty and dishonesty. "A RUN OF GRAY" BY BRIAN K. KELLY The fourth and last selection is a story by a gifted young Latterday Saint author. Although written by a relatively inexperienced young author, "A Run of Gray" is an excellent story. It is vividly realistic in detail, skilled in language, and significant in meaning, emphasizing the need to face life honestly, with recognition that all living things, especially people, are mixtures of good and bad. It is alsoa very interesting story, appealing both to young and mature readers. The story is not flawless. The simplicity of its sentence structure becomes a little monotonous, and it is ineffectively repetitious in a spot or two. Sometimes its words are not as dramatically intense and symbolically rich as they might be. These, however, are minor weaknesses in a story that is amazingly strong and meaningful. Descriptively, it is especially good, having vivid, realistic details: the poplar and cottonwood trees planted everywhere by early pioneers, the contrast between duck eggs and seagull eggs, and between duck nests and seagull nests, the ducks and gulls themselves, a boy milking cows with his head resting in the cow's warm flank as the heavy foam forms on the surface of the milk in the pail, the problems of hatching duck eggs with regular barnyard hens, the behavior of restless boys at stake conference. Obviously, the author knows what it is to be a boy ona farm. 635 August 1967 Its dramatic conflict is equally vivid, especially the account of the gulls devouring the fluffy ducklings, the boy smashing the gull eggs and baby gulls in his fury, and the subsequent scene with the boy washing in the canal. This is first-quality narration, and woven into the whole story is a rich background of Mormon history, including the famous incident of the seagulls and the crickets. The result is a story that is well handled descriptively, narratively, dramatically, and historically. And central to all of this is its tightly integrated meaning, which lifts it from being merely a good story for boys to being a mature story for thoughtful adults. The theme of the story is suggested in the very title, "A Run of Gray." It starts to take clear shape, especially when the boy, while listening to a sermon, becomes puzzled about the difference between a natural and an unnatural man. Finally, the meaning becomes fully clear when the boy realizes, through painful experience, that all living things are both good and bad, depending upon point of view and situation  the grasshoppers, the seagulls, Indians, Brother Wright, mankind, everybody and everything. This is a great and essential lesson for the boy to learn, and for everyone to learn in the process of growing up. For Discussion Point out specific descriptive details that make this story realistically accurate. Explain the title "A Run of Gray." In what ways are the grasshoppers, the seagulls, Brother Wright, and men, in general, gray rather than black or white? Why is it important 636 for us to see this about ourselves and about each other if we wish to be honest? In the last paragraph the narrator says that after watching men and gulls age he has often envied the gulls. Explain what he means. We have included this story in a lesson concerned with honesty. In examining ourselves, other people, and the world around us, it is important to be as honest as possible. What truths about people and life in general does the boy learn, in this story, in the process of growing up? LATTICE FOR LOVE Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn The whispered words we share Become a trellis where, Like climbing vine or rose, Our love entwines and grows. Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT CLASS LEADERS.. Four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces.. Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12", 33% rpm_ record) Price complete... $3.50 postpaid (Overseas orders Send _ international money order plus air mail charges Approx. Wt. 1 Ib.) Produced and distributed by DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL MEDIA SERVICES BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH 84601 MARGARET LUND TRAVEL INC. PROFESSIONAL TOUR ADVISORS For all travel and ticketing arrangements HAWAIIAN TOURS Aug. 11 Sept. 1 Oct. 13 plus monthly PAGEANT TOURS including Canada's World's Fair July 22 EUROPE TOUR Aug. 30 TEMPLE TOURS Oct. 21 MEXICO October 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 Ogden, 399-4587 Logan, 245-6584 St. George, 673-3136 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa, 964-5283 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover   $3.25; Leather Cover   $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3 -60 Zone 7 --:1.05 Zone 4 -. -65 Zone 6 1.20 Zone 5 -80 ~~ THINKING ABOUT GE NE A LoGy? LET US HELP YOU! Competent Professional Research at prices You can afford VAIL RESEARCH FOUNDATION Box 581 Salt Lake City, Utah CHRISTMAS CRAFTS Gifts and Decorations Ask about Free Classes and Demonstrations in All Handicrafts Send 25c  for catalog and also receive our booklet, "Twenty-five Inexpensive Handicraft Projects" ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 638 Winfield CHINA eo $793: 4 Reg. Retail $234.50 11 patterns to choose from *plus freight if delivered out-of-town. Formal and    informal settings 20% DISCOUNT TO CHURCH GROUPS (ORDERING OVER FIVE DOZEN OR MORE) (WRITE FOR PRICE LIST) NOW YOU CAN BUY WINFIELD TRUE PORCELAIN CHINA at... Factory-to-you prices   OVEN PROOF   HAND PAINTED e DISHWASHER SAFE e HUNDRED YEARS PATTERN GUARANTEE FACTORY OUTLET STORES Merchants Park Shopping Center   In California   on. 2 i. E | 625 South Broadway [ 714 State Street, Santa Barbara Segment, Utah Denver, Colorado 348-A El Camino Real, San Carlos Salt Lake City's N rtcitich Shop BLACK HILLS PASSION TAN NORTHWEST TOURS CRA & NOVELTY CANADIAN ROCKIES Aug. 20-Sept. 2 LABOR DAY TOUR Bryce, Zion & Grand Sept. 2-4; MESA VERDE and We now have a much larger CARLSBAD CAVERNS TOUR shop to serve you better! Sept. 23-29 * Complete line of materials for HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper mache jewelry, liquid steel, Ante paper flowers, and many others. <i Write for new catalog. 50  ROSE PARADE TOURS Dec. 26-Jan. 2 Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY C0. James Travel Tours RaNae Gledhill, Owner 2230 Scenic Drive 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 Phone: 466-8723 486-1017 639 Mrs. Annie Cathrine Ericksen Benson Logan, Utah 100 Mrs. Luella Scovil Hendricksen Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Anna Kerstine Nielson Busk 96 Elsinore, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Rahing Regh Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Josephine Workman Fawcett g5 St. George, Utah yale Katie Meikle Ewing Smithfield, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Cottam Miller St. George, Utah Mrs. Lucy Robison Turner Morgan, Utah Mrs. Isabelle Armstrong Stacey Simpson Laramie, Wyoming Mrs. Mary Hoopes Rexburg, Idaho > Mrs. Annie Carter Johnson St. George, Utah Mrs. Paula Reber Staheli 'Washington, Utah Miss Rosa Shuss Larned, Kansas Mrs. Alice Stice Humphrey Lehi, Utah Mrs. Charlotte Emily Norris Wonnacott Long Beach, California Mrs. Elizabeth Rawson Cottle Mrs. Esther Sperry Farnsworth 9 Salt Lake City, Utah 640 Menan, Idaho UNKNOWN HEIGHTS Lois M. Anderson There are unknown peaks of knowledge In the region of the mind. But few men reach their summits, And few men ever find The hidden paths of wisdom, And the trails that twist and wind, To reach the shining mountains In the altitude of mind. Gompellin "Reading: for all L. D. S. Wives and mothers OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.95 (postage paid anywhere in the world) The third volume of the series is themed to "intelligent family living." Selections from masterworks of prose and poetry have been carefully chosen to delight and inform the reader. Text for the Relief Society Cultural Refinement Course 67/68. Note: orders will be filled for this very popular work in the sequence in which they are received at Deseret Book, starting from the expected publication date of September Ist. Get your order in NOW! YOU AND YOUR CHILD'S WORLD by Dr. Elliot Landau $2.95 Dr. Landau is a professor of education at the University of Utah. This book draws on material first used in his popular KSL radio program. This is a book that introduces parents into the sometimes baffling world of children a book that will give them insight and understanding. Reading difficulties, dating, and school studies are among the problems discussed. COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN ae 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Please send me copies of OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3 ercopies of YOU AND YOUR CHILD'S WORLD Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake store add 32% sales tax. Residents of California ordering from Orange store add 4% sales tax. Total cost $ (J Check.' Money Order [] Charge my established account MEITION ee ee ee nee cence cece be enbecece Address 1.0 nn eee be bebe bebe eee, City eee eeeState 0 ee, Zip Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah The family most likely to succeed.. Will have the help of Beneficial Life Insurance. Insurance can be a source of security and comfort to your family   but it can also be a means of improving the quality of life for each family member. Beneficial Life has policies that provide immediate estates for your family; policies that take care of your retirement in comfort; policies that create funds for missions and college educations; policies that safeguard the family home. The family most likely to succeed as a family will use the advice of their Beneficial Life Agent to create security and opportunity through insurance. On BENEFICIAL LIFE a. Srueenee GE) pny Virgil H. Smith   (Gi Salt Lake City, Utah REMEMBERING 
