"OCTOBER. 19674. a The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Htustrations: AT HALF-PAST AUTUMN Peggy Tangren The year is measured by a shadow's length And now itt is half-past autumn. Behind small weirs of sodden maple leaves Rain waters deepen into little lakes; The cradling nest has emptied To a sky wedge of swift wings. Two months ago this forest reeled And roared defiance In wars with storm and wind And held its roots. But now, at half-past autumn, A soughing fills the pauses In the woods' deep breathing. October, tremulous and slow, Descends the mountain Down from cliff and canyon To the drowsing hills, Then waits, as an aging patriarch Who, seeing beyond his sightless eyes, A vision of resurgence, and its keeping, Stands waiting with the waiting land. Sun and Shadow in Zion Canyon, Utah Transparency by Willard Luce Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Fish Lake on the High Plateau, Utah Photograph by Willard Luce Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 721 | am twenty-one years of age and a student nurse. | have been a member of the Church for nine months and many times the Magazine has been a great encouragement in strengthening my faith. | love the stories and lessons, and the poetry has a special appeal. Margery Miller Dublin, Ireland | have had to ask to be released as Magazine representative for Baldwin Park Ward, West Covina Stake, as my eighty-two years have, perhaps, rebelled at all the running around | have so very much enjoyed doing. No doubt | will still "'guide'' some of the subscribers to our new representative, Sister Kole. Mabel C. Ridley Baldwin Park, California We are living in La Paz, Bolivia, where my husband is working as a cereal advisor with a contract team from Utah State University. We enjoy the Magazine possibly even more here than at home, where so much is taken for granted. The Magazine is more beautiful all the time. Jayne D. Van Epps La Paz, Bolivia The Magazine is a real source of spiritual nourishment to myself and family. (When my daughter, who is eighteen, left for work this morning, she took a Magazine with her for reading at lunch time.) | always read the Magazine from cover to cover, and have my own index on stories, poems, articles, recipes, gospel doctrine, etc. That |! Find pertinent to my needs and disposition. The poetry is especially lovely. It is usually delicate and sensitive pastel colors of exquisite expression. Wanda F. Hilton Walnut Creek, California 722 | received the June 1967 issue of the Magazine today, and felt excited and happy to see the note on the From Near and Far page from Nita Olsen, as she has been my friend for more than twenty years. We once lived in the same branch in Australia, and we still correspond to this day. She married and settled in Ogden eight years ago and has two children. | am married to an Aussie and have four children. My husband and | were on a building mission to New Zealana for two years and our first two sons were born there. | learned to make over clothes for my family and attended Relief Society regularly. | am thankful for the good and uplifting messages in the Magazine the stories and the lessons. | am enthused over the ''Mix-and-Match Wardrobes" (by Ethelynn Keiser) in the June Magazine. | love to learn and am grateful for the development one can obtain from Relief Society and from the Magazine. Elaine Troy Beal Wood North Parramatta N. S. W. Australia | love The Relief Society Magazine and can never throw any of the numbers away. | especially enjoy the poetry. "Wind Luliaby,'' by Beulah Huish Sadleir in the April issue is just right for this spring. | hope sometime to see one of her poems as a frontispiece. Maxine Lind Salt Lake City, Utah | am most grateful for The Relief Society Magazine, and also to be able to be a member of the Relief Society, the privilege of baptism, and becoming a member of the Church in 1966.: Norma Gill Park Alhambra, California 

The Relief SOCISCTY Magazine volume 54 October 1967 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 724 Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family Mark E. Petersen 740 The Maguey Story Leanor J. Brown 742 The Finite View Helen Hinckley Jones 744 Within the Stillness Sylvia Probst Young Fiction 733 The One Who Waits Margaret Woods 750 Then Comes Tomorrow Marian Gardner Nielson 763 At the End of a Pilgrimage Marilyn McMeen Miller 768 Throw Down the Gauntlet Chapter 2 Janet W. Breeze General Features 722 From Near and Far 745 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 746 Editorial *''Honour Thy Father and Thy Mother' Vesta P. Crawford 748 In Memoriam Nada Rich Brockbank 749 Notes to the Field Unified Starting Time for Church Programs 772 Notes From the Field Relief Society Activities 800. Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 757 Something Special for the Party Zola McGhie 758 Self-lmposed Mending Iris W. Schow 759 | Remember Mama _ Dorothy M. Owen 762 Creative Artist With Heart and Hands Lesson Department 780 Spiritual Living Sustain the Brethren Roy W. Doxey 786 Visiting Teacher Message A Loving Person Alice Colton Smith 787 Homemaking The Kitchen The Heart of the Home Celestia J. Taylor 789 Social Relations What Will They Remember? Alberta H. Christensen 793 Cultural Refinement ''Patience and Forbearance'' Robert K. Thomas Poetry At Half-Past Autumn, Peggy Tangren 721; In This Dark Hiatus, Alda L. Brown 732; Space the Days, Beulah Huish Sadlier 739; No Sacrifice, Linnie Fisher Robinson 748; Seagulls, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn 755; Since Time Began, Mabel Jones Gabbott 756; A Prayer, Enid F. Woolley 761; Weapon, Lois M. Anderson 767; Burnished Field, Gladys Hesser Burnhanr 785; Anchorage at Home, Bertha A. Kleinman 799 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.   1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided' for in section 1103, Act of Gctober 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 723 

Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family Elder Mark EK. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve (Address Delivered at Relief Society Conference, Hyde Park Chapel, London, England, May 27, 1967)   The Relief Society of the Church is spoken of as an auxiliary of the Priesthood. The more I have thought of Relief Society and the Priesthood together, the more I am convinced it is a great partnership even as husband and wife are a partnership. The Priesthood and Relief Society are a partnership, and together they are expected to carry forward the program, whereby the Almighty seeks to bring immortality and eternal life to all of us. Priesthood and Relief Society The great objective of both Relief Society and the Priesthood is the subject mentioned in the beautiful anthem just sung, "My Peace I Give Unto You." It is peace not as the world gives it. The world does not understand true peace; but the true followers of Christ do, because it is that peace that passeth all understanding. And that peace, centered in the Savior of the world, rests to a large extent upon the homes and family life of Latter-day Saints. There again is the partnership of the Priesthood and Relief Society. We would hope that every woman in the Church be- 724 comes a member of Relief Society, and we would hope that every man in the Church would hold and honor the Priesthood. In the home father and mother Priesthood and Relief Society are working together as a glorious partnership in developing a home life that will produce a new generation of humble, devoted Latterday Saints. The principal objective of the home is to produce good Latterday Saints. Relief Society   the mothers cannot do this entirely by themselves. The Priesthood  the fathers cannot do it entirely by themselves. Again, it is a situation whereby we need a complete, harmonious, understanding partnership between the men and the women of the Church. We need to build stronger homes, and in these homes we must see that the hearts of the fathers and the mothers are truly turned to the children, and that the children's hearts are truly turned to their parents. "The Hearts of the Children' We often quote the last two Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family verses of Malachi, wherein the prophet said, ''Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful _   day of the Lord... And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse." Generally, we relate this scripture to genealogical activity. It is properly so related, but must it be exclusively? I know of no scripture which says that this prophecy relates exclusively to the genealogical program. I am sure that under the inspiration of the Almighty, Malachi looked down through the ages and saw our time, when family life is breaking - up, wholesale, in almost every nation of the world. We, today, have lost sight I speak of the world at large, not of the Church of the real meaning of the family. They have lost sight of the importance of the relationship of parents to children and of children to parents. I think it is altogether fitting that the Almighty should send a prophet to the earth in the last days, as an angel of heaven, to turn the hearts of the parents to their responsibilities toward their children their living children and to turn the hearts I mean the tender hearts of children to their parents, so that children will really love their parents and be obedient to them, and so that parents will truly love their children and cherish them, and care for them all their lives, and never turn them out at fourteen or fifteen; and never do anything but develop and generate and preserve love and family harmony and unity and the closeness of the family. Responsibility of Parents Regardless of age, the hearts of the fathers must be turned to their children and the hearts of the children to their fathers, and I assure you that this means mothers also. The scriptures here use the word father in the broad sense that we use the word man. We speak of our forefathers and we mean foremothers, also, don't we? And when we speak in terms of man as being the human race, we certainly speak of all humans, male and female. When God said, ""Let us make man in our image, male and female,' he meant exactly that. Where Malachi speaks of the hearts of the fathers, he is talking about the mothers, too. He is talking about parenthood. One of the great purposes of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ is to turn the hearts of the parents, in tenderness and love and in full responsibility, to their children. And one of the great purposes, likewise, is that we may so convert the children to the principles of the gospel that they will keep the great commandment which says, "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." It is a commandment of God that we honor our parents, and it is, likewise, a commandment of God that we honor our children and teach them the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Understanding Between Parents and Children Parents and children need to 725 October 1967 understand each other better. Often people living under the same roof suffer a lack of harmony, at times there is even bitterness because they are not understood. Young people today face many problems. At times, parents are a problem to their own children. It is surprising how many times we interview children who tell us what an obstacle their parents are: to belief in God, to observance of the commandments, keeping the Sabbath holy, or attending their meetings. It is, of course, true that children are often a problem to their parents. There is no doubt about that. Scholars in one of our great universities, not long ago, made a survey among a large number of families on the matter of juvenile delinquency. They studied not - only the parents, but also the children, and they called in many delinquent children to see if they could find out why they were delinquent what was at the bottom of this problem. Eighty per cent of these delinquent children said that their parents did not have time for them and did not care what they did, so long as they did not disturb the routine of the parents. The same percentage reported that their parents did not care whom their children chose for friends. Seventy-five per cent of all these delinquent boys and girls said that there was no parental love in the home. Isn't that heartbreaking? That is why there is delinquency. There is one great reason for juvenile delinquency today and for all gangs and mobs that is the breakdown of family love, harmony, and responsibility. 726 Religion in the Home Another very interesting thing was that the study showed that in homes of these delinquents there was little or no religion whatsoever. Many of these youngsters said that they would like to have some religion, but the parents wouldn't allow it in the home. What a commentary that was! We believe that if parents and children will endeavor to understand each other, that most of the problems existing in homes can be done away with, providing that all are willing to establish, in the home, an atmosphere where obedience to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ prevails. You know how peace comes. It is the peace of Christ, not as the world giveth. It is the spirit of Christ, which is the spirit of peace; and the only way we can have the spirit of Christ is to obey the gospel of Christ. It is obedience which brings about the sanctifying influence of the spirit of God into every family so that there can then be love at home, and peace.. We believe that parents and children ought to sit down together and talk over their family matters on a basis of love and understanding. The most serious problem our young people are faced with today pertains to their personal conduct both in and out of the home. Parents are too often too busy with other things to talk these problems out with their children, and as a result, young people goelsewhere for their direction and are often misled. Back alley advice is never any good. Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family And certainly, at this critical point in their lives, parents should be willing to take whatever time is necessary, and give up any other activity, to spend the necessary time to counsel with and advise their children. Young people need to plan for the future. In this they need a guiding hand, but the parents must not be too busy or too disinterested to do this. How may we improve the situation in our own homes? How may parents win the confidence of their children? How may we develop juvenile decency instead of juvenile delinquency? A Family Council Meeting Each family might well hold, occasionally, a family council meeting. This could be held in connection with the Family Home Evening, and we do strongly recommend that every Latter-day Saint family have a Family Home Evening every week. Periodically, as part of that Family Home Evening, there could very well be held a family council, called and conducted by the parents and attended by all members of the family. Properly held, it can strengthen family ties, assure the children that they really belong, and convince them that their parents are interested in their welfare as well as in their problems. It can help to protect children against temptation. It can inspire parents to set the necessary examples of righteous living for their children. In such a meeting, parents can win the cooperation of children in attaining the objectives of good family living, inviting them to help plan for it, and making them feel a part both of the plan and of its operation. Children will respond if parents will take the initiative in righteous leadership. - Again, in interviewing a great many young people, I have been amazed at the number who have told me that the principal disappointment they have with their parents is that the parents fail to provide leadership in the home and fail to make decisions. Righteous Decisions The parents ought to make righteous decisions. They ought not to be dictatorial in any sense, because that drives the children away. But, if parents will listen to their children and listen to the facts, and then go to Almighty God and pray for guidance, they will get the inspiration to which every Latter-day Saint. Is entitled. You have the gift of the Holy Ghost. It has been conferred upon you by the laying on of the hands. As Paul said to Timothy, "Stir up the gift of God that is in thee." And if we will but stir up this gift of God that is in us, and listen to our children so that they will feel that they are a part of making the decisions, and then, if through prayer and inspiration of the Spirit, we render the proper decisions and provide the spiritual building and character building leadership, by all means we will save our children, and they will love it. They desire leadership on the part of the parents and they desire righteous decisions, but they also desire to be counseled with. We cannot rule them out of the counseling, we must not be dictators in our homes. We are the children of God; we should have harmony and love and under- 727 October 1967 standing, and we should have communication between parents and children, so that we may all sit down and talk together and reach a common understanding, a common decision, and then the children will support the decision. But this must be done in a family council meeting; we cannot do this just over the breakfast table. Often some of the family may not be present for breakfast, or even for dinner. We must choose a time when all can attend. A few years ago in the Church we conducted a program called "Keep Faith With the Family." We prepared some material which was distributed throughout the Church in connection with this program. I would like to read to you some of the subjects which we recommend for these family council meetings. Mutual Respect One was to teach mutual respect for each other as family members. Next, eliminate selfishness; treat each other as real brothers and _ sisters; live the Golden Rule. This matter of eliminating selfishness is one of the most important of all things we can do. The worst enemy, the very worst enemy, of the human race is selfishness. The worst enemy of every home and every family is selfishness. You study every quarrel that you've had in your family and see if it doesn't rest on selfishness on somebody's part. One of the most important things we must learn to do is to apply the commandments of God in the home: "All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them." The Lord told us that 728 we were to love him with all our heart, might, mind, and strength. He said that was the first commandment, but the second was like unto it. And I suppose my interpretation is that "like unto it" means of like importance. We cannot love God with all our hearts if we do not fulfill the second great commandment, and the second is like unto it, '"Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself."" My closest neighbor is my wife; my next closest neighbors are my children. I must love them at least as well as I love myself. I should love them more, infinitely more. I should be willing to go far beyond any personal desires for myself for the good of my family. And we can never say that we love God if we have not love for our brothers and sisters and our fathers and mothers with whom we live. Love in the Home The love of God is vital. Remember that he said, "A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another as I have loved you.... By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to another." And love must include family love. It must be the love we have in our homes, resulting from proper Latter-day Saint living. To continue with this list the next would be to teach family worship. At home we should have family prayer and blessings on the food. We should live the Word of Wisdom, be willing as a family to pay our tithing and fast offerings, and we should fast together. We should promote brotherly and sisterly kindness, honesty, patience, and understanding. And as a Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family family we should plan to meet together in our meetinghouses; go to our sacrament meetings and our Sunday Schools together as families. Let it be a family project. We should promote in the mind of each boy the ideal of going on a mission at the proper age. Your young men ought to go on missions just aS our young men should. This matter of sending missionaries to all the world is not an American project. It is a project of the Lord Jesus Christ, whose Church is world-wide! In our family evenings and family council meetings we should promote in the mind of each boy the ideal of going on a mission. Many families assist in this thinking by setting up a mission savings plan wherein both the parents and the boy save a little each week or month toward that goal. It forms a constant reminder throughout childhood to live to be worthy to go on a mission. Temple Marriage Then we should teach the importance of temple marriage. You can begin this as a family tradition while children are yet young. It may be a guide and protection to them during the teenage period. Teaching them to be worthy of entering the house of the Lord. Should be one of the major projects of every family. Parents should constantly be mindful of temple marriage. You sisters must be; some of you cannot obtain temple marriages at the moment. You may be married to nonmembers of the Church or to husbands who are not interested. We say to you, be faithful and patient and God will provide a way. But to those of you who can become eligible to go to the temple, do so by all means. Make yourself worthy to ask for a temple recommend. You, yourselves, constantly teach temple marriage in your home and to your children, and set the example yourselves. I was so impressed at one time in visiting a family in a city where I was for a stake conference. I was there for an extra day because I had some business to perform. So I had family prayer several times with this family in whose home I was staying. On Friday night one of the little girls in the home was called upon to offer the prayer. I think she was about ten or twelve years of age. I was startled at the end of the prayer, and it was a lovely prayer, to hear her say, "Father, help me and my sisters to be married in the temple." And the next morning another family prayer was held, and this time another daughter this time about sixteen was voice. And at the close of her prayer, she asked, "Father, help me and my sisters that we might be married in the temple." And that evening the third daughter, eighteen, prayed and concluded, "Father, help me and my sisters that we might be married in thy temple." The next morning it was the mother's turn. As she led us in prayer, she said, among other things, "Father, bless our daughters that each one of them may be married in the temple." This was a theme of family prayer each time. And those of you who have been to the temple know that it is the gateway to exaltation. Sometime, every faithful person will be given the opportunity of temple marriage. 729 October 1967 Church Activity The importance of the entire family attending ward and stake and mission and branch events is all important. Families should go to Church together; they should worship together; as they should play together and work together to build up family unity. A child sent to Church by parents who remain at home can hardly be expected to maintain his interest. Most children want to do what their parents do, at least during the formative years. If parents go off on a holiday on the Sabbath, the children will probably wish to go along. On the other hand, if the parents go to Church, it is not difficult to bring the children along. When Church activity becomes a part of the family routine, when it is customary and the expected thing to do, most young children fall into this custom easily and without resistance. Soon it becomes a habit for them. When the home becomes an integral part of the Church and the Church becomes an integral part of the home, the two work together with team-like precision. The objectives of both are accomplished. Both parents and children are converted to the gospel principles. Mutual confidence and respect are established and the family is preserved, not only for this life, but for eternity as well. Achieving Family Standards and Ideals It is suggested that in these family council meetings that we review still some other things. If you happen to own an automobile and you have children in your 730 family who want to do the driving, come to an understanding about a definite set of rules pertaining to use of the car. Set up definite understandings. Let the children help you to make the decisions as to what time they come in at night when they go out for an evening. Chaperonage is absolutely essential if they are away from home over night or on certain types of dates. Let no Latter-day Saint young persons, boys or girls, go off together without proper chaperonage on a vacation. I know that it is a common thing in Europe these days, but let no Latter-day Saint participate in it. Obtain a willingness on the part of the children to discuss with the parents the type of companionship they choose. Urge them to introduce their friends to the parents so that the parents will know what kind of companions their children have. Build respect towards parents, school teachers, police, and all other types of authority. Reach an understanding about the proper choice of good 'reading, avoiding bad books and other publications. Provide in the home a proper type of reading material and avoid evil, disgusting television programs. Reach an understanding as to what types of amusement places must be visited, as to when to start dating, and with whom. Discuss with them the problems of dating too early and the terrible mistake of early teen marriage. Talk about maintaining decency at all times, avoiding petting and similar evils. Modesty in Dress Chastity in Conduct Another point is that of proper Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family and modest dress. Is there any reason why Latter-day Saints, nearly three million strong, have to go around like sheep, following the disgusting fashions of the world? Why should Latter-day Saint women and girls expose themselves by immodest dress, either in short skirts or tight blouses or however else you want to mention it. I tell you, ladies, you are not made lovely by short skirts; when you stoop over or when you sit down, especially, are you not made lovely by short skirts. It is a very serious matter. Many a boy who has lost his virtue has confessed to me that short skirts and other exposures gave him the temptation that started him on his way down. No woman certainly no Latter-day Saint woman  has the right to tempt any young man. You don't have the right; and if you tempt others by exposing yourself, God will hold you to account for it. Now Latter-day Saint women are supposed to be modest. We send our women and our men through the temple so that they will learn to wear modest clothing, and you all know what I am talking about. We ask you to be modest, so that you preserve chastity. Remember that when you lose your chastity you lose just about everything. One of the great covenants that we as Latter-day Saints make is that we covenant with the Almighty himself that we will be virtuous and chaste. We are told in no uncertain terms in The Book of Mormon that sex sin is next to murder in the category of crime. These are things that we need to talk about in our homes with our children, and we _ strongly recommend that as Latter-day Saints we keep faith with our families and preserve the ideals and the standards and the faith that the Lord has given us through the restoration of the gospel in these last days. Building the Kingdom We are expected to build the kingdom. I don't know how much you are frightened by this situation in Egypt at the present time. It scares me. Read the 38th and 39th chapters in Ezekiel. The final great war will break out in the Near East. That is where the great fight is going. To be, and that is where God will come when the armies of the world are assembled. He will pour out such destruction upon them from heaven that it will take seven months just to bury the dead. ~ I don't expect that this particular crisis will lead to that; there's too much else to be done. I merely call your attention to the fact that we are living in the last days, and that this is one of the signs of the times. We, the Latter-day Saints, are to prepare for the Second Coming of Christ, and we cannot prepare for the sanctification that will be required in tight blouses and short skirts. Now can we? And neither can we in quarreling in the home. Neither can we in in-. Dulging in irreligious practices. We must decide to be the covenant people of God and keep our covenants, which means that we shall have to live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. And that we may do this, I humbly pray. 731 732 a eg one IN THIS DARK HIATUS Alda L. Brown October climbs the hills that summer climbed, And mourns the echoed footfall on beaten trails. Bonfire laughter now has wafted to the skies, And sifted into winds where the lonely eagle sails. And | am steeped in solitude. Like the charred burn Upon these circled stones, | too have seen The sparkling flame of summer. | mourn small hands That picked wild jungle fern in mountain glen; lean Feet that waded icy stream for colored castle-stones. My loved ones... Now a thousand wingspan miles away, Not to return till forest glades have greened again.... And in this long hiatus that looms to that far day Autumn leaves fall with infinitesimal sound, And lie like teardrops on this endless-waiting ground.... Paul's Photos The One Who Waits Margaret Woods Walsall, Staffordshire, England   Crumpling the letter in her hand, Sandra thought, If only I were in Gail's shoes. She lay back luxuriously on the frilly pink pillows of her friend's guest room and drew the fresh smelling covers up under her chin. Closing her eyes, she wondered about Colin. Without doubt, he would be settling down for yet another day at the office, and perhaps remembering that she would have received his letter by now. She puckered her nose in distaste under the bedclothes. How irritatingly commonplace it all was! They had such an ordinary little existence. Admittedly, Colin was in direct line for a good promotion in his firm, and everyone, Ti # ADELE Oe EES even Sandra's parents, said how reliable he was, and what a good husband he would make. She knew he meant to ask her to marry him, but Sandra wanted time to think. She wasn't sure. She was seriously considering marrying Colin, but he probably didn't have a glimmering of how she felt about digging themselves up and cutting adrift from the old routine. If she did decide to marry him, she would dream all winter of sun-bathed beaches, the Mediterranean, the Indian Ocean, the New York skyline, and then, more than likely, settle for a honeymoon on the Cornish Riviera or somewhere in Devon, which were, after all, so very, very beautiful and picturesque but. The water in the shower was warm and comforting as it ran down her in rivers. What good sense Gail had had to marry a man like Martin. As an airline captain, he had a glamorous and exciting job that took him all over 733 October 1967 the world. Gail had all the clothes she wanted and a_ luxurious, though small, home, too. Their car was not exactly Sandra's idea of heaven although it was certainly big. Gail had two children, David and Claire, and they were dears. Returning to her room, Sandra slipped into a pleated skirt and a gay sweater. On the way downstairs, she met Martin. He had been to take the children to school. A nose-tickling odor was trickling through from the kitchen. Sandra was just in time to help serve the fried bacon and eggs. Gail was not in the best of moods, and Martin was quiet. Sandra chatted away happily through the meal. Eventually, Martin said, "Youll be staying over the week end, Sandra?" Sandra put down her cup. "I expect so, if Gail can put up with me. Spending a few days' holiday amid all this cosiness is so much better than living alone in my chilly London flat. Besides, the children are such fun, and it's nice to have a good visit." She grinned at Gail. ''We can forget our inhibitions." 'Well,' said Martin, pushing back his chair, "if you're still here when I come back from my trip, young Sandra, I'll bring you something dazzling from New York." "Sounds really divine," Sandra breathed, closing her eyes and clasping her hands in mock adoration. Emphatically, she said, "T'll be here!"' "Why not ask that boy friend of yours down for a couple of days," Martin went on. "We're a bit cramped, but we can always 734 put up a camp bed or something, can't we, Gail?" "Perhaps I'll ask him," Sandra said, wondering if the enchanted atmosphere that floated around Martin might move Colin to do something madly daring. Gail suddenly spoke. "TV'll be driving with Martin to the airport in about half an hour. Do you want to come, Sandra?" "Yes. Pll have to change, though. What about the washing up?" "Mrs. Jones will do that. She'll be here any time now," Gail called as she disappeared upstairs. Sandra hurried to her bedroom. She had been to see Martin off once or twice before, but it was always an exciting experience. After taking some pains over her appearance, she felt chic enough to meet with equality the cosmopolitan set that inhabited the airport. On her way back down the stairs, she paused slightly in passing the main bedroom. The door was ajar and she saw Martin, clad in his enchanting uniform, holding Gail in his arms. Overcome with mild envy, Sandra crept past and on down the stairs. Only hope my husband behaves like that when I've been married nearly ten years, she thought. When Martin came down, she asked brightly, ''How about introducing me to some handsome, eligible aeronaut?"' "You'll make out just as well by yourself, if I know anything about you," he grinned. Martin drove the car as far as the airport, but soon he had to leave the girls. He held up a finger in front of Sandra's face. "Be good," he warned in mock severity. "T promise," she said solemnly, imitating his line. Giving Gail a quick kiss, he was off with the words, 'You know the drill, darling." ''Let's watch him take off,"' said Sandra. Soon they were looking out at the huge jet aircraft as it stood on the apron to take on the passengers. The luggage was loaded; the people went on board. Then the captain and crew appeared and took their positions. Martin had evidently spotted the girls, for he waved as he crossed the short distance to the aircraft. The various trucks had now disappeared, and the little man in overalls was waving his arms about in front. Then the enormous aeroplane taxied away up the runway. Sandra and Gail watched as its silver shape grew smaller. The aircraft turned a corner of the runway and came to a halt. Minutes passed. Then, with gathering momentum, the huge winged machine sped forward, the wheels disappearing under its streamlined length almost the second its dependence on the land was gone. Up it soared towards the sun and mist-swathed sky. "Gail! What a dynamic husband you've got," cried Sandra, as with tilted head she watched the airliner climb the steep invisible ladder to the heavens. Gail smiled. ''Hush,"' she whispered gently. Sandra watched until there was nothing more, not even a speck, to see of Martin's aircraft. Then, face aglow, she turned to her sober-faced friend. "What did Martin mean by 'You know the drill'? She inquired cheerfully. The One Who Waits Gail studied Sandra for a moment, then said, "Our goodbyes have to be said at home. There are always too many _ people about to say them here. So we have condensed words to fit our surroundings. What Martin was telling me was, 'I love you terribly and I'll be as lonesome as you.' " Sandra murmured, "I'm very thoughtless, dear. I should have realized it hurt you to see him off." Taking the older girl's arm, she looked at her with sudden shocking understanding. Now she could interpret the steady, quiet expression on Gail's face. Gail was one of the waiting, hoping wives, who suffered at the hand of that invisible magnet which draws some men to adventure, exploration, and danger. But the rest of the world did not see the loving sacrifice behind the glittering screen of glamor. Sandra fingered the crumpled letter in her pocket. One sentence which hadn't seemed particularly important when she read it earlier, now lit up in her mind. "Be kind to Gail,' Colin had written. What deep. Understanding Colin had, after all and she had never even noticed. How tolerant he had been of her own frivolous ambitions. "Let's go," Sandra said. "We can stay awhile," said Gail, "you'd enjoy that." "No." Sandra pulled the collar of her coat around her neck and squeezed Gail's arm, "Let's go." Clouds were creeping across the sky and the bright morning was giving way to more seasonal weather. The girls were quiet on 735 October 1967 the ride home. Gail called at the green grocer's shop to buy fresh Brussels sprouts to go with the lamb chops for lunch. The children had their dinners at school and would not be home until around four o'clock. Later, Sandra telephoned Colin at his office. He told her that a pea-souper fog was beginning to close down on the city and he probably wouldn't be able to come that evening. If not, he would drive over, early on Saturday morning. Gail sat knitting in an easy chair before the blazing coals in the open fire grate. "Mmm... I love December afternoons," said Sandra. She placed a cushion on the hearth rug and squatted down to gaze dreamily into the dancing flames. "Makes me think of muffins dripping in creamy butter, slippers warming for that special someone, and Christmas.' Then she bit her lip and dropped her glowing eyes. She must learn better tact. "What are you doing for Christmas?" asked Gail, as if she hadn't noticed anything. "The usual boring round, I ex- 736 tate, pect. Mostly with the family and Colin in tow. What about you?" "Can't say yet. Depends on Martin. Christmas is a busy time for airlines, you know. He either gets Christmas or New Year's off, but sometimes he's just a standin and so he can be at home. If he's needed because someone is ill, then he can be reached by telephone. If he's definitely away for several days, then I drive to the parents' on Christmas Eve with the children and Santa visits us there. The parents love it, but, of course, it's not quite the same. Not being members of the Church, either, they don't see things quite: al as we do. When we're at home with Martin, we have a lovely Christmas Eve. We do such simple, yet such lovely, heart-tingling things. But when he's away, it falls a bit flat. We try to make it up as best we can for all our sakes, but it's just one of those occasions that can't be postponed or held ahead of time. Christmas Eve is Christmas Eve and that's it." There was a rush of feet and banging of doors as the children came running in, pink-cheeked, their school uniforms damp from the foggy atmosphere outside. "The school bus nearly had to stop. It crawled like a snail all the way," they said impressively. All was noise and bustle, play, and argument until teatime, with hot buttered toast and Dundee cake. It was Friday night, with no school on Saturday, and so there was hilarity in the air, with the thought of staying up a little later than usual. But at eight-thirty, Gail had them bathed and in pajamas, ready to say family prayers. It was David's turn tonight, and it soon became evident that when Daddy was away, he considered himself to be the part-time protector of the family. Tears held themselves behind Sandra's closed eyelids as he matter-of-factly, though quite sincerely, prayed for his father's safety. Obviously, it was all in a day's round for Daddy to be away. Later, watching television, the two girls spoke little and Sandra found she was beginning to engage in a fair deal of introspection. Around nine o'clock the "'News" began, and Gail took the opportunity to check on the children in bed. Sandra was paying little attention to the announcer but suddenly, she sat up "... Just received news that the captain of a British airliner collapsed at the controls whilst landing at New York this afternoon." Dry-tongued, and ears pricked, Sandra waited for more details, but there were none. The announcer was going on about fog in the center of London, and in most of the industrial Midlands. Could it be Martin? It must be. But he had seemed all right when he left. The One Who Waits Did they say he had died? She wasn't sure. There might be other British planes landing at New York, from other directions. How could she tell Gail? There was nothing certain, though. How long did the airline authorities take to notify next of kin? What should could she do? If only Colin would come! She do! What She tried to calm her feelings as Gail trotted in with glasses of warm milk and sandwiches. But Sandra couldn't eat and made a poor attempt at the milk. '"'What's up? Too. Much at teatime or worrying about the waistline?" teased Gail. "Must watch it occasionally, you know." Sandra managed a sickly smile. "Do you want an early night?" "Don't mind. How about you?" "There's a film on the other channel." "O. K." There was a scuffling at the hall door and Claire came in with tear-spattered face, holding one side of her head. '""Got earache," she wailed. Gail picked her up, gently hugging her, and placed her in front of the fire. "Sit with your ear next to the blaze while I fetch some warm drops to put in." Soon the whimpering little girl was cuddling into her mother's arms and then, asleep, was carried carefully back to bed. "Did she really have an earache? She fell asleep so quickly," Sandra asked. "In her mind it is an earache. 737 October 1967 But children's feelings react in odd ways sometimes."' "Oh, I see." The film was dragging on. Sandra was not interested. Worry was taking precedence. Why hadn't the telephone rung? Colin wouldn't come now. The fog must have been too thick. Gail was nodding, falling asleep. The telephone! Ringing in the hall! Sandra was halfway to her feet, when Gail, startled, jumped up and hurried out. The door was ajar. Sandra could hear most of what was said. 'Been trying all evening? Oh, must have been out of order. Perhaps it's the weather. Could be, I suppose.... News? No. Tell me, what is it?" Sandra cringed. Now what would Gail say when she knew that her friend had withheld the news from her? *  A boy! Oh, congratulations. That's just what you wanted. I'm so glad. Give Jenny all my love. Bye." Sandra breathed with relief. Gail was coming back. "Some friends just had their first baby. He's so excited. Been trying to phone all night. It must have been out of order. Are you interested in the film, or shall we go to bed? I seem to have missed half of it." "Yes. Let's go to bed." It was dark in the bedroom. Thoughts were more vivid now. Was Martin lying ill or even... Banish the thought. And Gail didn't know yet. There was time to tell her even now. No. Better let her have some rest instead. Things always appeared better in the daylight. 738 Why not pray about it? Why hadn't she thought of that before? Quickly, kneeling beside the bed, she poured out her fears and worries. To voice them was a relief. She had scarcely finished when the sound of the front door chimes jangled into her newly aquired peace of mind. It would be the police! They always did that when very important messages had to be delivered  like sudden death. With the phone out of order all evening, that would be it. Unable to contain her feelings, Sandra rushed headlong across the landing, her feet scarcely touched each stair and then, more calmly, she unbolted the front door. It was Colin. "Hello. Sorry I'm late. Fog's beginning to lift now, though." Squinting at the sudden light, he took her hand and was about to kiss her, when he saw Gail standing at the head of the stairs. She called, "Hello, Colin. Had a bad journey?" "Pretty shocking. Worth the effort, though." He smiled warmly as he looked down again at Sandra. "Look after him, Sandra. The camping things are all ready. He can fix himself up." Gail slipped back up to her room and closed the door. Sandra clung to Colin's arm. "T'm so glad to see you. I'm worried sick." "Well, you certainly seem upset. What's up?" Out came the story, tumbling word over word, and _ finally, "",.. So then I prayed about it and you came knocking at the door." "You certainly had a problem. Poor Sandy. How you must have worried." He took her hands and looked steadily into her eyes. 'There's one thing you've forgotten, and that is the fact that if anything had happened to Martin, Gail would have had news by now. Bad news travels fast, as they say, and even though the telephone has been out of order and everywhere blanketed in fog, it couldn't have made much difference. Your idea about the police was correct. I know there isn't much time gap, but don't you realize that very bad news would have reached Gail in this manner by now?" Sandra leaned her head against the back of the settee on which they sat. "I knew it would be all right if you came. If only you had come earlier!"' "T wish I had been able to, but the fog was so thick." "Hold me close a little." "That better?" "Mmm. Oh, Colin." "Ves?" "Don't ever do anything crazy The One Who Waits like wanting to become an airline pilot or something." "Well, I don't suppose I'll do that. I enjoy my own career too much. But goodness, you of all people don't want me to lead a completely dull life, do you?" "Not completely. Only don't be too daring, will you, because I couldn't bear it. I think I'd die of fright and worry." He held her away and looked unbelievingly into her stricken face. "You mean it matters to you?" She nodded and he stroked her hair as he held her close again. "T always thought I wanted an exciting life and a husband with a glamorous occupation, but I've changed my mind. If we ever do anything dangerous, we'll do it together. I don't want to be the one who waits. I'd be a nervous wreck in no time. I want a husband with a nine-till-five job, who is never too far away when his work for the day is finished." "Like...?" He pointed to himself.. Slowly, she nodded. And that was enough. (  Her rich display. Until you left. SPACE THE DAYS Beulah Huish Sadlier Space the days lest swift as running deer, October ends. If in heaven's sight, she spread a flame of sorrow On the hills, then only in pretense shall | confiscate How to extoll the opulence of apple And the clinging peach, the clustered grape, And burnished essence of aquatic dust Floating on the leaf-banked stream. It was October when we met  And days went swift as running deer   739 The Maguey obory Leanor J. Brown, Member, General Board of Relief Society   Imagine my getting excited about a cactus! I grew up in Southern Arizona with cacti to the right of me and cacti to the left of me. Of course, the Easterners, out borrowing a little of our winter sunshine, always exclaimed about cacti, but they were foreigners and we didn't let them influence us too much. So you can imagine my feelings when, many years later way down south of the border I discovered that one member of this ever-so-common family is a miracle child. Of course, this has happened to me before not with plants, but with people. In my mind I have placed a family among the common variety, only to have something happen to make me realize that they were rather special. My assessment had been somewhat premature. If you have been to Mexico, I know you've seen maguey plants. They outline the farm lands of Mexico's hills and valleys from the north to the south. But what you probably didn't know was that you were looking at one of nature's wonders. The ancient Aztecs were so 740 awed by all the gifts of nature in this one remarkable plant, they called it the "sacred plant.' On what it alone supplied they could survive. It furnished them food, drink, clothing, shelter, paper, soap, and a needle and thread. The tough, thick branches, tied together, made a rather comfortable, temporary home. By peeling off the outside skin of its turgid leaf and rubbing the moist surface, a foamy substance is formed. This can be used for bleaching and cleaning. The inside layer of the spine-margined leaf peels off easily and resembles papyrus. Tourists enjoy the novelty of writing letters on it, but the Aztecs probably found smoke signals more useful. At the end of each leaf is a long, hard spine with a fine point. By cutting carefully around the base, the spine can be pulled out, with strong fibres attached, providing nature's needle and thread. The food supply comes from a shrimp-like worm that feeds on the roots of the maguey. Actually, the maguey worm doesn't appear quite as frightening as the shrimp in full dress. Near the Pyramids of Teotihuacan, at the colorful souvenir shops, enterprising shop owners keep employees busy demonstrating how the thick fleshy pulp is pounded off to get the tough fibre. Most of the markets carry attractive items, such as handbags, baskets, and hats made from this fiber. Woven with cotton material, it is used to make the gaily designed Mexican tablecloths. Few would argue that the most miraculous service of this plant of many uses is the liquid it sup- Courtesy William B. Smart Maguey plants near the Pyramid of the Sun at Teotichuacan Central Mexico At the left may be seen tall cactus plants, interspersed with small desert flowers plies. The Mexican farmer cuts the center of the plant and, with a long, brown, hollow gourd draws off a liquid called "'agua miel," or honey water. The average yield is about five quarts a day for as long as six months. When the honey water is first drawn out it is very nutritious, but it ferments rapidly and, after twenty-four hours, becomes alcoholic. After this takes place the liquid is called "'pulque'"'  the drink that contributed to the destruction of the great Toltec Empire in the twelfth century A. D. It is a sad commentary on human nature that of all the things this unusual plant offers mankind, he seeks most the only one that lends itself to destructive use. I remember having several vivid impressions while watching the demonstration of the maguey plant. I thought how many different analogies could be drawn between this plant and our lives. As we were being enlightened on one after another of its uses, I found myself wondering how I would stand up under such scrutiny. If all eyes were suddenly turned in my direction, waiting to see what I had to offer, could I stand as erect as the majestic maguey, knowing I had developed the gifts within me? How will it be, I thought, when the Master of all looks at my offering? To pass by this plant merely to look at it one would never imagine it had so rich an offering. In like manner, we seldom know the richness of another's soul. We see only what is obvious to the eye. Tied to convention and the ritual of routine, we suppress the desire to step beyond the familiar pattern, and yet we live our years longing for "'a sense of oneness with our kind... Thirsting to know and understand." The story of the maguey plant is a story of life. The good and the bad are present in all men and in all nature. In us, as in the ''sacred plant" of the Aztecs, are special gifts with which to build or destroy, but, unlike the maguey plant, we have the power to choose how these gifts are to be used. 741 oy ork ae" Helen Hinckley Jones   "Lah-lah me," Sean begs when he is bathed and in his sleepers. "Lah-lah me, Daddy." His father takes the tiny boy in his arms, holds him against his left shoulder, puts his cheek against the little head nestled in his neck, and dances and sings. There aren't words to this special vesper song   just lah-lah. After the song, there is a story, a prayer, and a goodnight kiss. The final sentence is spoken softly but firmly. ""That's all. Good night, Sean." Craig, who is four, has been allowed to "visit with Momie," while two-year-old Sean is lahlahed. Now it is his turn with his father; the same loving arms, the same song, the same dance, a more complicated story, a prayer with which he doesn't need help, the same gentle kiss, and the same firm sentence, '"That's all. Good night, Craig." After this evening ceremony, there is no calling out for another drink, no hopping in and out of bed, no fussing around. These little boys have learned two things: that their father loves them, and that his word is their law. They know exactly what to expect of him at other hours, too. He often prepares their breakfast, since he goes to work early, and they are usually up and hungry before six. He is a master at preparing eggs and pancakes, but his specialty is cooked cereal, which he makes fascinating with cake 742 coloring pink or yellow, green or blue. The first little boy who awakens arouses the other, and they go into their parents' room. "Blue mush, Daddy," Sean demands, and they stay close until their father shows signs of responding. If they sleep a little later, and he has already left, they say sadly to each other, "'He's gone," and they go to Craig's room to play with their toys. It would be breaking a law to bother Momie so early. They know the hours their father can spend with them, the hours he must study or work in his basement shop or train the dog. They know when the family takes the dune-buggy to the desert on a sunny Saturday that each will have a chance to hold the steering wheel while sitting between his father's knees. He is their ideal, the center of their lives. (Not that they don't love Momie. She ranks first when Daddy isn't at home or when someone is sick or hurt.) His actions are completely predictable that is, his actions in relation to them. But of the hours that he is away from them they know little. "Where is Daddy, Sean?" I ask. "Daddy works," he_ replies promptly. "What does Daddy do?' "Daddy drives a truck." At times he has stopped by home during his lunch break and he has been driving the telephone company truck. Besides, they know about trucks. They have a whole fleet of tiny ones that are go-everywhere toys. They know all about driving, too, since each has a pedal car which he can HAPPINESS IS BEING WITH DADDY Gary Gene Ballard with his sons Craig Eugene and Sean Drew drive forward and backward and maneuver into the tiniest parking spaces. It is perfectly comprehensible that Daddy drives a truck. From the wisdom of two added years and a chance encounter with a telephone crew on the way from nursery school, Craig adds, "But sometimes he sits on a pole." Neither of the boys has any idea about what the man they know so well really does. Maintenance of telephone lines and cables is something that they couldn't understand, even if it were explained to them. They know their father as love and care and law, and they can't realize that his life and activities go far beyond their finite view. It isn't going to be too hard for Sean and Craig to learn about their Heavenly Father. Because their earthly father is the person he is, they will understand about God's constant love, the security they can feel because he is close, the laws they must obey, because they are God's laws. The boys will grow in wisdom. Even before they are men, they will realize that their father was never limited to the facet of life they shared as his children. As they grow still more mature in faith and knowledge, they will realize, too, that man knows only the face of God that is turned toward him. Beyond that facet of God's life lie the infinite mysteries that we can understand only when we, ourselves, have become godlike. 743 Within the Stillness Sylvia Probst Young   During the moon-bright hours of a summer night, we climbed the well-trodden trails of Timpanogos, and just as the sun blazed over the eastern hills below us, we reached the summit of the mountain and felt the great exhilaration that attaining the heights always brings. Resting on the ridge, we feasted our eyes upon a wide panorama of beauty green, fertile valleys, shimmering lakes, winding rivers, and wooded mountains a breathtaking sight in the fresh morning stillness. The sight brought to me a sense of wonder and humility, and to my mind came the words of a well-known scripture: "Be still and know that I am God" (Psalm 46:10). In the hurry, hurry, hurry of our daily living, with its frustrations and worries, many of us are often low-spirited and discouraged. Yet all around us is food for the soul, a kind of medication that has often proved better than prescribed pills, in the healing peace that can be found in God's great creations. From my kitchen window, I look out at Mt. Olympus; at twilight the snow on its crown is bathed in a violet pink beauty. And in that opalescent stillness, my heart is lifted, and I repeat with the psalmist: 'I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth" (Psalm 121:1-2). In stillness, there is a calming, strengthening power, and the wise Creator knew this, for he placed a stillness on so many lovely things  dawn, and the coming of night;. A play of clouds across the sky; the miraculous growth in a garden; creeping of frost along the ground, are but a few of them. In stillness comes peace. Walk along a forest trail where the silence is profound, and a sense of wonder and devotion fills the soul as in a holy place. Along a lonely coast, where only the rhythm of the ageless tide can be heard, care may be shed like a cloak, and a sense of well-being can warm the heart like a mantle. In the poem "Cares," attributed to Elizabeth Barrett Browning, "The foolish fears of what may happen," are cast away '"'Out in the fields with God." There is a need for quiet, solitary meditation in every life. A friend of mine has a meadow brook behind her house, and when the pressures of the day become too great, she steals off alone to stand beside the crystal stream for a few minutes, while her mind and heart catch the wonder of the ever-moving water. And when she returns, it is as if her cares had been washed away. Surely, there is a peace-giving, revitalizing power in stillness. Take a few moments of the day to find it. Make for yourself a quiet sanctum, whether a secluded garden nook, a hidden beach, a backyard bench, or a kitchen window, from where you can clear your vision, lift up your eyes to the stars, be still and know God. 744 Ye "Womans. Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Jeanette McKay Morrell, Ogden, Utah, sister of President David O. McKay, and wife of Dr. Joseph Morrell, is author of "Highlights in the Life of President David O. McKay'' (Deseret News Press). The book is an inspirational treasury of events in the life of the President, with a rich offering of his teachings and his fervent testimony of the gospel. Mrs. Morrell is a devoted and gifted worker in civic and Church organizations, and has long been a leader in art and literature groups. A series of afticles '"'Life of President David O. McKay" by Mrs. Morrell appeared in The Relief Society Magazine in 1953. Deanne Siemer, twenty-six, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, has been elected president of the Harvard Law School's Legal Aid Bureau, the first woman ever to head one of Harvard's three legal honor societies. She is a licensed pilot, an expert skier, and a brilliant lawyer. Ann Mallalieu, twenty-one, daughter of a British Board of Trade minister, has been elected president of the 151-yearold Cambridge Union Debating Society. Evelyn Mazuran, woman's editor of the Deseret News, Salt Lake City, Utah, was one of four United States editors to address the National Federation of Pen Women at their summer meeting in Sun Valley, Idaho. Her subject was ''The World of Women in a Daily Newspaper.'' She is the daughter of former Governor of Utah, Henry H. Blood and wife of a Salt Lake City businessman. Martha Elizabeth Peterson, who grew up on a farm near Salina, Kansas, is the new president of Barnard College, New York. She succeeds Rosemary Park (Anastos) who has been appointed vicepresident for educational planning at the University of California, Los Angeles. Miss Peterson is leaving the University of Wisconsin, where she was dean of student affairs. She has a doctorate in educational psychology and a Phi Beta Kappa key from the University of Kansas. Elizabeth Allen, eighty-three, Kent, England, is a maker of ''quilt-pictures,'' which have been exhibited by Crane Kalman in his London galleries. Her small, neat, mystical designs, made of scraps of silk and satin, have been compared in luminosity to the paintings of Klee and Picasso. Others have compared her to "Grandma Moses,' yet, instead of being happy pastoral recollections of childhood scenes, such as Grandma Moses presented, the work of Elizabeth Allen is imaginative and portrays events and scenes evanescent and unreal. Dorothy McGinnis is executive secretary of the American Association of School Librarians. She is responsible for keeping up-to-date and selecting books for school libraries. Nurses are now more than ever needed in many posts of service throughout the world. In the United States at least 62,000 more registered nurses are needed. 745 "Honour Thy Father and Thy Mother" EDITORIAL Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee (Exodus 20:12). Like all great commandments, the fifth commandment is as glorious and far-reaching in its implications today as it was in that time when Moses came down from Sinai ''and builded an altar... And the Lord said unto Moses... | will give thee tablets of stone, and a law, and commandments... That thou mayest teach them... And the glory of the Lord abode upon mount Sinai...""" In all the time of man during the eras of the gospel, the ''patriarchal commandment," as it is sometimes called, has strengthened the generations which have observed obedience to its requirements. On the hill of Calvary, Jesus remembered his mother and honored her. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother.... When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing by, whom he loved, he saith unto his mother, Woman behold thy son! Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother! And from that hour that disciple took her into his own home (John 19:25-27). Counsel regarding the relationship of parents and children is abundantly given in The Book of Mormon, in the Doctrine and Covenants, and in the words of present-day prophets. If parents would be honored as their children pass through the various stages of reaching emotional and spiritual maturity, they will need to begin early to train their children in habits of industry, responsibility, and generosity. Often the most permissive parents reap the greatest indifference, rebellion, and disobedience from their children. An early realization that one must be able and willing to give as well as to receive is essential training for a child. Lt Volume 54 October 1967 Number 10 M@ Belle S. Spafford, President WM Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Mi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor M@ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer 746 Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson: Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd 'Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous How can the grownup children, those in homes of their own, honor their living parents? By helping to fulfill the needs of older parents  whether the needs be financial, emotional, or spiritual. Many grandparents wish to have a "'share"' in the grandchildren who are carrying into a new generation the heritage-and ideals of the family. The sharing may consist of visits, letters, small and intimate gifts of remembrance. Much more than a span of earth life is pertinent to the commandment ''Honour thy father and thy mother,'' for the precept includes the families through time and eternity. Books of Remembrance, genealogical work, family records, are all a part of family love and union, and, most certainly, a way of honoring the fathers and mothers back through the previous eras upon the earth and a way of protecting the beloved family circle into the eternities. A young man thought of this eternal blessing while serving a mission in England. Once, as he traveled to a district conference, he was privileged to visit the ancestral cottage of his great-grandfather. His thoughts were profound, and they became a part of his later life: Here | am in Harlow, Essex, in this lovely land. These ancient hedges my ancestor trimmed; he walked these stone paths; he loved this green and rainy land. Because of him and his spiritual yearnings, | was born under the gospel covenant, for he heard the message of the restored gospel in this village. Our fathers and mothers, near to us and more distant in the generations, can be honored by our remembrance of their precepts. The teachings that made them strong and valiant can help us to meet with wisdom and courage our own ever-present problems. Let us glean also from their journals, their letters, their family records from the memory of their spoken words. A dear grandmother whose footsteps faltered and whose hands were crippled and weak, realizing that her earth-life was near its end, wrote a farewell letter to a sixteen-year-old granddaughter who lived far away, offering words of love and wisdom. Be patient, honest, endure, remember the eyes of the Heavenly Father are upon you live nobly, and await the glorious eternities. Then she added a few lines of poetry: When my aged head is laid to rest, And my girl is a woman grown  And the worries of life surround her, May the Grandmother's prayers be known. That letter is still like a banner before the eyes of the granddaughter  who remembers. Thus may the fathers and the mothers and all of those of the tree of life be honored throughout the generations. What person anywhere can achieve his greatest possibility without a legacy from the knowledge and wisdom proved over the ages? The family tree has roots and branches and twigs and a bowery of singing leaves. Where is the tree which can grow without roots what tree can blossom without its lovely branches?  V. P. C. 747 IN MEMORIAM NADA RICH BROCKBANK Nada Rich Brockbank, wife of Bernard P. Brockbank, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, passed away August 2, 1967, in Salt Lake City, Utah. She was the daughter of Jesse Pomeroy and Louise Rogers Rich, and was born September 13, 1913, in Paris, Idaho. Sister Brockbank received a teacher's certificate from Utah State Agriculture College, now Utah State University. In 1934 she was married to Elder Brockbank in Washington D. C. The marriage was solemnized in the Salt Lake Temple in 1937. They have five sons and one daughter. Elder Brockbank became the first president of the North British Mission in 1960. Sister Brockbank assisted him by making the mission home a place of welcome to the elders. She supervised Relief Society activities in the mission until Elder Brockbank was called from the North British Mission to pioneer the Scottish-Irish Mission late that same year. Once again she was truly an inspiration both to the elders and to the Relief Society sisters in the mission. Sister Brockbank has given valued service as a Relief Society teacher in her ward. When Elder Brockbank was director of the Mormon Pavilion at the World's Fair in New York, Sister Brockbank missed no opportunity to welcome visitors and share her testimony of the gospel. The General Board of Relief Society, and the membership throughout the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to Elder Brockbank and their family members. May the beautiful life and blessed memory of Nada Rich Brockbank be a continuing blessing to them. 'a s\ NO SACRIFICE Linnie Fisher Robinson | made a promise in my early youth To sacrifice for thee, dear Lord, above; To learn thy sovereign will, thy every word, And serve my fellows with unstinting love. And | have served in myriad ways And shared with those | found in need; But, oh, the sweetness that came back to me, Repaid so many times each single deed. So never once in all these years, Has there been aught of sacrifice from me; Accept my good desires, through rueful tears, | have but gained the while and better see. UD) 748 UNIFIED STARTING TIME FOR CHURCH PROGRAMS As has been announced previously, all Church curriculum programs, both Priesthood and auxiliary, will begin their year's work on Sept 1, 1967, in the Northern Hemisphere, and March 1, 1968, in the Southern Hemisphere. The new Relief Society stake and ward record books have been adjusted to the new schedules for both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. The following reasons for recommending that all Church programs Should have a uniform starting time 2. Should start with the school year will be of interest to mothers: 1. It is recommended that a uniform starting time for all the programs of the Church be adopted for the following reasons: A. C. All organizations dealing with a given age group would be able to correlate their efforts more easily and effectively in such areas as: (1) the preparation of age-group lesson materials, (2) the development of activity programs which would grow naturally and logically out of the correlated instructional program, (3) the development of a meaningful correlated leadership program and teacher training program. If the young people are associated together in the same age groups in all the Church organizations, and if the programs of these groups all begin at the same time, (1) the members of these organizations could be advanced (move together from one class to another) at the same time, (2) the leadership of each age group could function more efficiently and develop a closer relationship with each other. Calendars for all events and activities on all levels of Church government could be developed and carried out more easily. It is recommended that all the programs of the Church begin at the same time as the school year for the following reasons: A. The Southern Hemisphere school year begins about six months later than the Northern Hemisphere school year. This interim period (1) would allow time for needed materials to be received from the United States by regular mail, and (2) would allow time for materials to be translated. It is desirable to keep young people together in social groups. If members of Church organizations were advanced at the same time as school groups, the Church members could move ahead and associate in their Church functions with their social groups (school associates). The printing and mailing of manuals for all Church groups could be completed before the Christmas rush. Also, these manuals and other materials could be packaged and mailed together, eliminating several mailings during the year. 749 Marian Gardner Nielson   Esther lovingly traced the intricate appliqu d flowers on the taut quilt. Her fingers lingered on the rows of tiny, almost invisible, stitches which breathed life into the feather design. She smiled at the rainbow-colored pieces arranged in her own wildflower pattern. The quilt was as beautiful as she had envisioned it years ago when her first grandson, Jamie, had been born shades of coral, delphinium blue, lavender, and sage green, with accents of delicate yellows and gold. The sprays of shaded wild roses, the white and purple columbines, the tiny blue forget-me-nots were set off by a fragile border of fern fronds and pink-lavender cliff flowers looped with trailing greenleafed vines. "It's beautiful,"' she breathed. Since she had put the quilt on the frames two weeks ago, she had hurried out of bed at dawn in 750 order to get at the quilting. It was a slow work, each stitch having to be placed just so, each flower having to be carefully etched with the tiny stitches in order to make it puff out. But she had plenty of time before she needed it. Jamie wouldn't be married for another month. If she worked on it for a few hours each day, she could finish the quilt and even have plenty of time to bind it by hand. This was one quilt she wanted to do alone. True, Mattie had come over and helped her put it on. They had carefully stretched the pale green back and tacked it onto the frames. They had taken special pains to smooth the batt; they had been most particular in getting the top stretched taut and straight before they pinned it to the bottom. "It's too tight, Esther. It will be hard to quilt,' Mattie had objected. "T like it that way, Mattie, you know that."' Esther was adamant. Mattie shrugged, but said admiringly, '"This is the most beautiful one you have done, Esther. The colors, and that wildflower design.... How long did it take you? When did you find time? I've never seen you working on it." Esther laughed. "Well, Ill admit it has taken me a couple of years. But a first grandson getting married is something special especially one named after his grandfather." Her eyes misted. "James Parsons McBride!" How proud Jim would have been of him serving as a foreign missionary, three years in the army then college. And now, marrying Nancy. "Nancy will make Jamie a good wife, Esther." Esther put her hand on the quilt. "He's always been so thoughtful of me. He told Jim that last day, 'Grandpa, I'll take care of Granny. Don't you worry.' " Ksther stopped talking, still tenderly touching the white quilt with its lovely flowers. 'This is for Jamie and Nancy on their wedding day. It's a_ surprise, Mattie. None of the family knows about it. That's the way I want it. I want to see Jamie's eyes light up and hear him say again, 'Why Granny, what have you been up to now!' " This was a quilt of her own making. She chose as a design the wildflowers she and Jamie had gathered years ago in Monument Valley, on the Bears' Ears, and at the foot of White Mesa. She - wouldn't even let Mattie help quilt it, let alone the Relief Soci-? Then Comes Tomorrow ety. She wanted Jamie to know how she loved him, how she appreciated his thoughtfulness and kindness. Yes, and his teasing, too! But the news got around that Granny McBride had another of her fancy quilts on, and the neighbors began to drop in to see it. Jenny Benton was first, openly envying the minute _ stitches; Grandma Paige came and fingered the delicate sego lilies, rejoicing in the ivory and lavender of her favorite flower; Billie Sue, the new convert from Kentucky hills, came with her slow-speaking husband and wanted to sit right down and go to work. Mary Jane brought the baby when she came, and almost wept at the sheer beauty of the quilt. "Granny, you know I'm a good quilter. You taught me. Why don't you?" "Now, Mary Jane, don't ask me. If I wanted anyone to help, you'd be the first one I'd ask. But can't you see? I want to do this one alone." "Oh, Granny," Mary Jane wailed, and the baby started to cry, "you can't get it done on time. Our quilting club could come. We're all extra good quilters. Don't you remember you told me you were afraid the art of quilting was dying out and you got us to come once a week that summer?" Esther gazed fondly at her serious, brown-eyed granddaughter. She could still see the eight earnest little girls sitting around the pieced baby quilt, trying to take small stitches. Tongues were still as the girls tried and tried again to please the perky little 751 October 1967 woman who had inveigled them with hot scones, red currant jelly, and rich cold milk to come and "learn to quilt!" And they'd all learned, too. Well, except for Martha, who couldn't keep her mind on anything but Tom Smith, even then. So when Martha and Tom were married, the quality quilters had pieced and quilted a Swedish wedding ring quilt that was as well done as if Esther had done it herself. She patted Mary Jane's baby, kissed the top of Mary's head. "TI know you can quilt. You're nearly as good as I am but let me do it alone." So it was with all the offers. Nobody insisted. Everybody in the small town knew Granny McBride and her love for young Jamie. When the phone rang, Esther was just ready to roll both sides. She hated to go and answer it, but her conscience got the better of her. It was probably just about the bake sale for the scouts, Saturday, anyway. But it wasn't about the bake sale. As Esther listened, she clutched the phone harder, and her face ' grew still and white. "How badly is she injured?" she inquired. Although she relaxed a bit at the reply, when she hung up the receiver five minutes later she was still pale and shaken. She sat, unmoving, at the 752 phone, making plans and discarding them, making others. Finally, she arose. If she hurried, she could get the six o'clock bus and be at her daughter Liza's before morning. It was no job to pack her small suitcase. She took the perishables from the refrigerator next door to Connie, who needed the extra food anyway. She called Mary Jane. "Liza's been in a car accident and is in the hospital. They don't know the full extent of her injuries yet. What? I don't know the details, but I am going to the children. I don't know how long I'll be gone, Mary Jane. The quilt? I'd almost forgotten it. Well, Pll cover it and lock up. It will be all right until I get back. I might even let you help me if I can't get it finished! No, I'm all ready. Just look in once in a while. Will you take me to the bus?.... Thank you, dear. Goodbye." Esther hadn't forgotten the quilt at all. She stood over it savoring every stitch, every vlbrant blossom, every nuance of radiant color. She just had to have it finished for Jamie's wedding. It was a dream a dream of love and joy and tears. She had promised herself when Jamie was in Viet Nam, that when he got married, she would have it ready  now maybe she wouldn't. She thrust the thought aside. Of course, she'd get back and finish it. She'd even wrap it in pink net and tie it with a big bow of satin ribbon. It would look very bridey. Liza would be fine in a few days. Hadn't Harry assured her of that? She was just putting a sheet over the quilt, when she heard Mattie at the kitchen door. "Well, Mattie," she said, almost crossly, to, cover up the tears in her voice, "now you're here we might as well roll." | As the two close friends carefully and tenderly rolled the two sides, Esther explained about Liza and the necessary trip. "Oh, Esther! Can I do anything to help you? What about the quilt?" The quilt again. Esther forced herself to speak gently. "TI'll be back in a few days, and I know T'll have time to finish it then. With the two sides rolled once and the ends done, it won't take me long." The two women tightened the last clamp and straightened up. Mattie looked it over proudly. "That design sure does stand out. Can't say as I've ever seen a prettier quilt."" She paused a minute, "Nor one with more style, either."' From Mattie that was the ultimate compliment. "Tl take care of your flower garden. I'J]l water it at the same time you do," she said dryly, "at five o'clock a. M. Now, that's friendship for you, watering a flower garden at dawn!"' Ksther knew everything would be taken care of. Mattie would see to that. The night bus trip seemed long. Air-conditioning helped, but a fretful Navajo baby in the seat back of her was restless and kept her awake with his whimpering. She slept fitfully, and Liza's accident loomed large in her mind. Even the problem of getting the quilt finished for Jamie's wedding hovered over her, way out of proportion. She was glad when she could see the Ute Mountain silhouetted against the brightening Then Comes Tomorrow sky. When the bus finally arrived at her destination, she was her old serene self, emanating sympathy and. Love to Liza's worried family. Liza wasn't so well, she was told. It might be she would have to stay in the hospital longer. Nothing that couldn't be taken care of, though. Was Granny sure she could stay? "You need help, don't you? All right, I'm going to help. What are grandmothers for? I can still make cookies. Didn't I teach your mother how? I might even try a batch of salt-rising bread. Now, how would you like that?" Harry put his strong arms around her and hugged her gratefully. The three little girls clung to her hands and chattered happily. The two teenagers, Bob and Joan, pretending they weren't listening, sauntered along in front. "Oh, Mother!" was all Liza said when Esther bent over her bed at the hospital, but there was a world of love and thankfulness in her voice. Tears slipped out of her eyes. Tenderness painted Esther's words with the comfort which only she could give. "Dear Liza, you must just get well. I'll take care of the family. You know I will love that. We all love you very much. I'm so glad I can be here when you need me." Liza looked as if she wanted to say something, but her mother stopped her. "No, Liza, no talking. Rest now. Rest now." As Liza closed her eyes, Esther tumed and followed Harry out of the room, her heartbreak mirrored in her face. By the time she rejoined the children, her smile was 753 October 1967 back and her voice had its usual lilt. The days that followed were full of rich experiences and of discouragement. It seemed that the meals were at all hours, that there was no system to their living. The mending basket was piled higher each day; the ironing was never finished. There was no time for salt-rising bread; in fact, there was no time to get her regular bread mixed. One day she had to send Bob to the corner grocery for bread. That did it! She set up a routine for living. Using charts on the kitchen blackboard and written reminders in the bedrooms, she got the children organized to get their tasks done quickly. By the end of the second week, things were looking up. The house looked spic-andspan; the pile of mending was almost gone; a fresh batch of saltrising bread was cooling on the rack. The children were happy with the results. Too, Liza might come home any day. But the days scurried by, and the doctor did not release his patient. Esther relayed to Liza only the pleasant things that happened at home: the three little girls had learned how to crochet; Bob had cut his long hair and looked almost human _  again; Harry was supervising the building of a barbecue in the back yard; and Joan had a regular baby-sitting job. She kept herself busy mending, cooking, cleaning, and keeping up the lagging spirits of the family. She never mentioned the quilt to anyone, for, at last, she had given up getting it done in time for Jamie's wedding. She 754 had wept when she had first made her decision, and a little of the sprightliness left her. Even with a great deal of help, it would be impossible, now, to get it done. She tried not to think of Jamie's pride in her accomplishments and his '"What have you been up to now, Granny?" She knew he would understand; she had had a short note from him full of love and concern. She would send his wedding quilt after she had completed it. Liza had been home three days when Mary Jane called Esther about the final reception plans. "Granny, well meet the bus day after tomorrow. You'll get home just in time to change and get to the reception." "But, Mary Jane." "Jamie and Nancy will meet you at the hall. Don't worry, Granny." _ Then Mary Jane talked to Harry at some length. When he finally hung up, he looked up quizzically and stated, '"'We'll get you on that bus, Granny!" And he did. When Esther got off that evening, Mary Jane's husband whisked her away. '""You're to come to our place to change. Your pink dress is ready for you there, and you can go right with us to the hall." Excited, tired, upset about the unfinished quilt, Esther did not insist on going to her own home. Efficient little Mary Jane had her showered, dressed, hair combed and almost relaxed, before she knew what had happened. "Do you think Jamie will understand about the quilt, Mary Jane? It seems I can hardly face him without a wedding present." Her lips trembled. Mary Jane kissed the soft cheek, held her close for a moment. "Jamie will understand. Your being there will be better than any wedding present anyone could give him. You'll see." "Yes, but I wanted to have it ready, and I haven't."' "Oh, Granny," and her granddaughter steered her gently out of the house into the car. The cultural hall was ablaze with lights and tall baskets of pink and white gladioli when Esther came in. Jamie's young arms enfolded her as he said against her softly waved white hair, "Oh, Granny, now everything is perfect! Come along with us." With Jamie's arm tightly around her, and Nancy's hand, cool and comforting, in hers, Esther was led to the front of the hall. The chattering stopped, the fiddler broke into "That Old Sweetheart of Mine," as they came to a halt. "Look up, Granny there, over on the wall." Hanging in the place of honor against the pale blue background was her quilt. Each fragile wild flower and each green frond stood out in relief against the azure background. Esther had not dreamed it could be half so delicate, half so beautiful. Then Comes Tomorrow She turned to Jamie. "I didn't do it all myself, Jamie." "It's the most beautiful quilt in the world, Granny," Jamie interrupted, huskily. Nancy spoke to her tenderly. "Mary Jane told us all about it, Granny, and that makes it more beautiful than ever to us. Those girls loved you enough to spend days finishing the quilting binding as fastidiously as you yourself would. Aunt Mattie scrutinized every stitch. It is truly a work of art. We'll cherish it always and our children and grandchildren will treasure it, too." Only then did Esther look around the hall, at Mary Jane and the eight little grownup "Quality Quilters"; at Mattie trying to look severe and uninterested, and not succeeding; at all her friends who loved her enough to help make this dream come true. They wanted to give their talents, their love, along with hers. Why, they wanted to share her love for Jamie! Suddenly everything was all right. She took a deep breath, and surreptitiously wiped her eyes. She would thank everyone later, but not now. This night belonged to Jamie and Nancy. Her time would come tomorrow, and the next day and the next, to share her life with these dear neighbors and friends... And Mattie. R Whiter Of gulls. SEAGULLS Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Than flying spray When breakers crash against The coral sand are sunlit wings ~ y 755 4 m Something Special   i for the Party W iy Zola McGhie \) (e\ Member, General Board of Relief Society \) SSSSESSSSSESES= iSGeeese sess OAHU FRAPPE 14 c. Sugar 1 c. Orange juice 14 c. Syrup (white or brown) 2 c. Pineapple juice 14 c. Water gingerale, as desired grated rind of 1 orange Simmer sugar, syrup, water, and grated orange rind for 5 minutes. Cool and add orange juice and pineapple juice. Freeze to mush. Fill glasses three-fourths full. Add gingerale. POPCORN BALLS 1 pkg. Jello (any flavor desired) 1 c. White syrup 1 c. Sugar Mix well and bring to boiling point slowly. Cook just until sugar is dissolved. Pour over 6 quarts popped corn. Shape into balls. RHUBARB AND PINEAPPLE PUNCH 1 Ib. Rhubarb 2 tbsp. Lemon juice lf, c. Sugar gingerale, as desired 1 c. Water 1 c. Chilled pineapple Cut rhubarb into small pieces and cook with water until tender (10 minutes). Strain through a fine sieve or cloth. Return to heat and add sugar. Bring to a boil. Cool. Add lemon juice. Before serving, add chilled gingerale. The mixture may also be made into a fruit cup by pouring it over crushed pineapple or fresh diced pineapple. RASPBERRY PUNCH 14 c. Sugar 2/, c. Raspberry juice 114 c. Water 14 c. Whole raspberries, 2 c. Water canned, frozen, or fresh 1/6 c. Lemon juice 1 tsp. Grated lemon rind 1% c. Orange juice grated rind of 14 orange ' Boil sugar and 114 cups water for 3 minutes. Cool. Add rest of ingredients. Chill and serve. FROSTED PINK LEMONADE 1 c. Sugar red food coloring 1 c. Water water juice from 6 oranges chopped peppermint stick candy juice from 6 lemons powdered sugar 1 qt. Gingerale, chilled 757 eastern North Carolina is a time of green meadows, with the landscape adorned with a multitude of colorful wild flowers. As the season advances, the night air becomes cool. The morning sunshine brings warmth, but not the sweltering heat of midsummer. Altogether, this is a most beautiful and pleasant time of the year. In this setting and season, November 7, 1880, Mama came into the world. Being reared in a strict, puritanical home, she acquired those traits of character. Mama grew from childhood into a beautiful young woman. She was neat in appearance and conservative in dress. She met Papa and fell in love. Since they lived a   Autumn in considerable distance apart, their courtship was carried on mostly by correspondence. Mama treasured the letters she received from Papa. Mama had a large cedar chest. No one was allowed to open it, except under her instructions. It was a real treat for us children to gather around and watch Mama as she rearranged things in her cedar chest. We all watched with eager eyes. Our attention was especially focused on a little white box tied with a red ribbon. "What is in the little white box?" "Oh, that contains the letters Papa wrote to Mama," came the answer from my elder sister. "May we see them?" "No," said Mama, as she carefully put the little white box back into the cedar chest. Our hearts were filled with excitement and glee when sometimes Mama would lift out the little white box and let us hold it for just a few moments. To her, these letters were sacred. It was not until I was a grown woman 759 October 1967 that Mama gave me the privilege of reading the treasured letters. To all of us children, the letters in the little white box were a symbol of the love and devotion Mama and Papa had for each other. Never at any time in all our lives did we doubt for a moment but that Mama was the top lady in Papa's life and that Papa was the top man in her life. Adcross the meadow from our home lived my Uncle Sanders, whom we loved to visit. One day, when I was about five years of age, while playing in the sand in his yard, I found a _ beautiful sparkling button. Feeling that it was of no value to him, and since it was so lovely, I took it home with me. Laying it upon the table, as I removed my _ sweater, Mama kindly asked, "Where did you get the button?" "TI found it in Uncle Sander's yard," I replied. "Then it doesn't belong to you. Put on your sweater and take it to your Uncle Sanders and tell him where you found it." Falteringly I retraced my steps to Uncle Sanders. Oh, how I dreaded those last few steps before reaching his home. I knocked lightly, hoping he wouldn't be there. As the door opened, I was greeted by a_ smiling Uncle Sanders. "Well, has my little girl come back to see me?" He took me up in his arms. I opened my hand, showing him the button, and said, "I found this pretty button in your yard, and I thought that you had thrown it away so I took it home. 760 Mama said that it was not mine and that I must bring it back to you, so here it is." "You may have the button and welcome, little one, it is of no value to me." His gracious gift was beautiful to me, but Mama's word overpowered his kindness so I could not accept it. I sadly put the button in his hand. Mama had taught me an enduring principle of honesty. An organized schedule was arranged by Mama, and each child was assigned specific duties, which varied each week. Each one soon learned his schedule, and knew he was responsible for doing the job. One washed breakfast dishes, another dinner dishes, another made beds, another swept the floor. If one had to be away and could not attend to the job, he arranged for another of the children to exchange assignments for the day. Very seldom did anyone have to be reminded of his job. Mama taught each to be responsible. Mama's unselfishness was an outstanding quality of her character. There was truly always room for one more at our house. The walls seemed to bulge at times, from an overflow of company. As long as there was floor space, she piled quilts until there was a bed of fair comfort. The eating was no problem, for the children waited until the first group had been served their dinner. Then the table was reset for the children. I will admit, at times, the company seemed to eat for a long time, or so it seemed to us hungry youngsters. F We lived near the highway, and often people came to the door, asking for food or shelter. They were never turned away. Mama cooked a good meal for them and a place was prepared for them to _ sleep, if they so desired. However, the children were never asked to give up their beds for these strangers. We had a nice warm barn. Hay was spread out, and Mama let Papa use her less beautiful quilts on the hay for the waytarers. The quilts were not used again until they had been washed and hung in the sun to dry. Mama and Papa were converts to the Church and both were staunch members. It was many miles between the members' homes, and the missionaries walked the distance, many times reaching our home during the night. Mama would arise quickly and prepare hot biscuits, ham and eggs, and canned fruit, to make a typical, quick meal for them. Papa cut the choicest slices of ham for the Lord's_ servants. Mama had a strong faith and testimony of the gospel and our Church attendance was very regular and punctual. Mama was a dressmaker by trade. She made all of the girls' clothes, and I especially felt pride when I was a young lady in my teens. When I shopped around [I carried a pencil and scratch-pad in my purse. If I found a dress which I liked, I quickly sketched the design on paper. Sometimes I changed it a bit to suit me better. When I described to Mama how the dress looked, she would duplicate the pattern for me. My dresses fit well and I was proud of Mama. Crocheting was also one of the hobbies in which she excelled. As I sat down today to write, these images of Mama _ passed through my mind. Truly, her life and example have been a great blessing to all of those with whom she came in contact, especially her family. I love her! 7 A PRAYER Enid F. Woolley Australia Father, forgive the times of doubting, Of never being sure lf what | do is right or wrong. And give me wisdom pure, That when two paths are there before me And one | needs must tread, Let me know without a doubt, A worry or a dread, | _ That the path | take is right, And meant for me to use. Father forgive my indecision; And teach me how to choose. ) 761 CREATIVE ARTIST WITH HEART AND HANDS Lucy Belle Teeples Gjettrup, Idaho Falls, Idaho, brings much happiness to her friends and relatives, and pleasure to herself from her many hobbies. Belle, as she is known to all, has kept her hands busy all her life with embroidery, crocheting, knitting, tatting, making rugs, clothing, baby clothes, afghans, and many other handiwork items. Her lovely gifts of handiwork are greatly appreciated by those who receive them, and many bazaars have reaped benefits from her contributions. To add to her talents, Sister Gjettrup took up painting when she was eighty years old, and paints lovely landscapes on fishing and hunting trips which she still loves to take with her husband. Sister Gjettrup is the mother of seven children and grandmother to sixteen. She has forty-four great-grandchildren and two great-great grandchildren. Her devoted Church service includes many years of teaching and executive work in the auxiliary organizations. Her activities in Relief Society include spiritual living, theology, and cultural refinement (literature) class leader, secretary, and more than fifty-five years as a visiting teacher, which she is still doing. She is proud of the fact that she has been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine since the first issue. As a ''Pink Lady" in the Latter-day Saints Hospital in Idaho Falls, she has accumulated more than 1335 hours of volunteer service. 762 End of a Pilgrimage Marilyn McMeen Miller   The motion of the car rocked the babies to sleep. Catching myself in a periodic doze, I gripped the steering wheel hard and glared at the ribbon of gray that sped beneath me. I could not remember ever wanting so much for a road to end and it seemed that it never would. Then the rain came. It poured in a thick curtain across the empty highway, and trickled from the metal top of the Chevrolet. I watched the dark sky tremble with flashes of gold. The gray clouds became heavy and black and sank into the hills ahead. "We'll be at Green River by six." My mother-in-law's voice was level and delicate, her head bent over a map. Suddenly, a flash of lightning in the sky lit At the her white hair into a fle cy crown of silver. "It looks like a heavy rain, Marcia. We'd better stay somewhere for the night. We won't be able to finish our journey today." Finish our journey how desperately I wanted to finish our journey. On this road I had imagined myself as a pioneer, and wearily prayed for the end of our journey: the end I had been anticipating impatiently for years. My eagerness was contrasted only by the sweet silence of my mother-in-law who sat quietly watching the gray hills spin past her window. But I thought to myself that she could not really understand my waiting. I had waited to feel one with my husband, until I could somehow gain a testimony of his wonderful gospel. Then I had waited impatiently someday to reach Salt Lake City, where we could be married in the temple for time and eternity. At last we had seen a way to get a transfer in Paul's business so that we could live in the valley. It was beyond my grandest dreams. He 763 4 October 1967 had come to Salt Lake to work with his company and find us a home. Then I had waited restlessly for him to give us the signal that we could follow him. We had sped along the highway for two days. I wanted to reach Salt Lake that very evening. I stepped on the gas and pulled the automobile doggedly through the curtain of rain. "Tf the storm continues, we should stop in Green River," Mother repeated softly. Her words cut me. I did not want to stop. We were so close. Didn't she understand? But I glanced at her small head set on the thin shoulders. Perhaps I was underestimating her awareness of my impatience. She must have known how I had been so eager to follow Paul to this valley. She, too, had her reasons for wanting to come. She, too, could have been impatient. But she was stronger than any of us. Paul's father had been dead twenty-five years, and since I had known this sweet woman, I had never heard her utter a word of complaint. It was no wonder that her visit at the birth of our third child had been one of the greatest influences in converting me to the Church. She was one of the dearest people I had ever known. No one questioned her firm, religious grasp on her family of seven, all married in the temple, except for Paul. Paul's union with an outsider had been the only harsh thorn of her long and successful life, and at the twilight of her years, she had set about earnestly to rectify it. With my own mother's death some time ago, I had been more than grateful to have ". 764 her come to help me with my third birth. I had wanted someday to be able to have a testimony of Paul's church, but it was not until her kind teachings penetrated our home that I had really learned to accept. There was an important end to this journey for her, too, as well as for me. Perhaps I did not understand her own eagerness to see the end of this pilgrimage. Suddenly, the steering wheel jerked out of my hands and the automobile careened to the right of the road. It was a flat tire. I tried to control the wild motion of the car, but it was very difficult. I put my foot on the brake and forced it to a rugged stop on a soft sloping shoulder. "Are you all right, Mother?" I whispered. ""Oh what was it?" she asked, thrown toward the dashboard in surprise. "Yes, I'm all right." I looked into the back seat. The children had tumbled forward, but seemed to have weathered the sudden stop. All three of them began crying. "It's nothing. Be patient, now." Mother took the baby out of the bed we had fixed between the seats and caressed him. '"'Quiet. Quiet." I heard her still voice as I got out onto the highway in the pouring rain. The sky roared down around me, heavy with blackness. It would not have been long until we would have driven out of it, but it was our bad luck to have a mishap here. Opening the trunk in the cold wetness, my bare fingers began to numb. The screws on the spare came off with difficulty. Then the jack would not 2 get a good hold in the soft sand. I placed it beneath the car in several places. A soft question rose up behind me. "Can I help you, Marcia?" "You'd better get in out of the cold, Mother," I half pleaded. ""Come, come, ye saints."' While repairing that spare tire, the most acute feeling of what the early pioneers must have suffered in the wilderness struck me. It was almost no different now. We, too, wanted to reach the end our destination, and in that process we had our own difficulties. The tire was heavy, and the rain drenched me, until finally I got into the car to drive it out of the mud but it slithered around. Another stroke of lightning illuminated the whole sky. The children were crying. 'Relax, Marcia dear. It'll be all right. Perhaps we're too heavy. Let me get out. And we can use some newspaper or if we haven't any, the map, to put in the mud in front of the rear wheel." I almost laughed at the notion that if my mother-in-law got out, the car would be lighter. I noticed the back of her coat was soaked through. "Don't get out, Mother. Please don't get out. You're already wet, and you'll catch a terrible cold." But I really did not know what else to do. The map did pull us out of the mud. Back on the highway, I pulled the car to a stop. My mother-in-law got inside. Her hair was drenched and stringing around her face. "I had to use my scarf, too," she said simply. That evening we had to stop At the End of a Pilgrimage at Green River. I accepted it. At least we did not have to set up camp and build fires. The motel room we took at seven o'clock was equipped with running water and heat. I was more than grateful to shed my wet clothing and take a warm shower. The children finally sank into sleep, and Mother and I listened to the lull of the rain far into the evening. "Marcia, I am so glad you decided to come to Zion. It is where you belong. We'll reach Paul tomorrow, and as the song says, 'All is well!'"? She smiled and reached for her handkerchief. A slight case of sniffles had caught her in this afternoon's episode. Sleep was more than precious to me. In the morning, I felt renewed, and as if I needed to take life a little more easily all along. I saw the sun rise on a dim, yet fresh world, and I felt ashamed that I had been in such a hurry for the future without looking about me and noticing the beauty of life along the way. In the quiet hush of dawn, I looked at the small face of my mother-in-law, delicate on the pillow. I regretted having counted the days and hours I was to have been in the valley with Paul again when I could have more eagerly lived each moment I had been with his mother, learning from her wisdom. When the children were awake, and we had breakfasted, we set out again on the highway, relaxed and eager to reach the destination which now, in reality, lay just ahead of us. We talked about the temple, the organiza- 765 October 1967 tion of the Church, the Relief Society. "It's all something which I have been very blessed to share with others all my life,' Mother said. She had begun to cough. I was afraid she had caught cold, and told her to bundle up more carefully. We turned up the heat in the car. "Oh, don't worry about me. I'm all right," she said over and over again. I cannot explain my feeling at seeing the spires of the temple rise up in the city. Truly, I had reached the end of my journey. I trembled with excitement. Paul had given me the address of his new office. We were earlier than he expected, so we would surprise him. In the rush of afternoon traffic, we could find only a small parking spot on a side street. Pioneer women had never had this problem to contend with, I murmured, as I swung the steering wheel from one extreme to the other, trying to fit the big car into the small space. I finally succeeded. My mother-in-law and I gathered the children and walked up to the office. It was an old building, remodeled luxuriously. I was so proud of Paul, my heart was nearly bursting. '"'He's not here at this moment, Ma'am, but I'm sure he'll be back shortly, if you would like to wait a while," a dark-haired girl at the desk told us. We could have gone to Uncle Fred's where Paul was staying now, but I. Did not want to rush in on their busy family at this time. And, besides, I was too impatient to see my husband. So 766 we decided to wait. We waited for two solid hours until Paul returned from looking at some prospective property. "Marcia!" he exclaimed, amazed to see us so soon. He had not expected that we could make the trip so hard and fast. "Paul!" I cried, rushing at him. I must have looked weary beneath my stringy, straight hair. But Paul was happy to see me. "You must have driven like wildfire!" he said. "T didn't want to stop at all. I missed you." I nearly choked on the words. Paul looked at his mother. She stifled a cough, and her eyes were twinkling, yet calm. "You've got a cold, Mother. We'd better take care of that." Then, taking the children, he led the way out of the office as it was now past closing time. "J'm really so glad to see all of you. I hope you got here safely without any accidents." He had chosen a house for us, but the tenants would not be out of it for two days. "It was the best deal our office had going," he said excitedly. When we drove by it, I thought it looked like a dream home. It was my Zion. I had come, safely, to the end of my journey. We were warmly welcomed at Uncle Fred's house, and we talked eagerly about going to the temple. We planned to go the next morning with Uncle Fred and his wife Ktty. I felt such a thrill of gratitude. By the next morning, however, Mother registered a high fever. Her forehead was flushed and hot and she did not feel like getting out of bed. So we had to leave her. She urged us to go and we said morning prayers at her bedside before we left. As we drove along through the morning traffic we discussed the great growth of the magnificent city which was built on the dreams of a few hardy people. Tall buildings were etched against the blue sky. The pioneers had found their destination here  their resting place the end of their journey, as I had found it. I felt a peace. At last I had completed my journey. I could say "All is well!" Our marriage in the temple was something too beautiful to try to describe in words. The peace and patience of the Lord descended into our lives from that moment as we had never before felt it. This, even more than reaching the city, I knew, completed my pilgrimage. That night when we returned to Uncle Fred's, we heard a choking cough in the back bedroom. Mother was very ill. We rushed in to her, but she seemed calm and very still. "You're married in the temple, now, Paul." She smiled weakly at us and groped for my hand. "I am so happy." As one looked behind the glazed eyes and the weak voice one could tell of her great happiness. Truly, she had finished her life's missions. At the End of a Pilgrimage We called the doctor and the elders of the Church immediately. The doctor was very kind, but he turned to us gravely and shook his head. She had pneumonia. We took her to the hospital, but it was too late. Before she died she said something I shall never forget." "T've reached the end of my journey," she said softly. "But it is really only the beginning of a new one." The perfect pioneer! There was never an end always a new challenge. Suddenly, I knew I had seen my ideal... I wanted to be like her. When Paul and I walked out into the cool street' and caught the glint of the temple lights far in the distance, a surge of sadness mingled with warmth welled up inside of me. I thought of my discussions with Mother about Relief Society, temple work, ward activities, rearing my own children in the Church and seeing them go on missions and marry in the temple. I clutched Paul's arm. "You know... I've been foolish, darling, for so many years, I have thought of this destination as anend the end of a long road, a long journey." I paused to savor the sweet air and watch the bright stars in the sky through my tears. "But Mother has taught me that the end of this life is really only the beginning." WEAPON Lois M. Anderson Love is the only weapon to date, That can silence the guns Of human hate! 767 OW Dox tne Gauntlet _/ Janet W. Breeze Chapter 2 Synopsis: Nancy Jackson, a_ ballet dance instructor and mother of two children, is opening a new studio in her remodeled home, when her husband, Grant, tells her that he wants to accept a teaching assignment on the island of Saipan.   Nancy hadn't realized that getting ready to go 7,000 miles from home would be such a production. When world travelers had their pictures on the newspaper society page, they always looked so happy! And calm. But Nancy wasn't calm. She had tried coordinating lists of things to do, but even being organized wouldn't make _ the phone stop ringing. Most of the calls were from loving friends who excitedly wanted to hear "all about it.'"' And Nancy had finally sold herself on the idea so completely that she eagerly answered every enthusiastic inquiry. 768 Some of the telephone calls, however, dampened Nancy's enthusiasm. Like the friend who told her she was an unfit mother for taking her children away and exposing them to malaria   and the responsibility of having them killed in a typhoon. And then there was the woman who said, "You can see the whole island in a week and then what will you do?" Nancy tried not to let people upset her but they did. The only things that kept her from really doubting her convictions were the other phone calls: so-and-so's aunt, who had a cousin on Guam, who loved it absolutely loved it! These were the well-wishers Nancy enjoyed talking to, in spite of the packing still undone. There was another well-wisher Nancy consulted frequently. She now had two. Letters from Sister Mortensen the first one, which Grant had insisted she read again, and the second a long one  which she had received as an answer to her own inquiry. Whenever she began to feel herself filling with doubt, she would read and reread the two letters and the "'Acceptance" from "Hicott." "High Commissioner of the Trust Territory! Now there's an impressive title,' Nancy said to her mother. Grace Hauser didn't care much for this big new decision of Nancy's and Grant's, but she hadn't told them so. In fact, when Nancy had first told her mother about the application Grant wanted to file, all Grace had said was, "Why ask me what you should do? You've already made up your mind." Nancy knew her mother was dreading the separation, but she agreed that the most important thing was for Nancy to support Grant as breadwinner for the family. Now the vague possibility of their going off to find their "island paradise" was becoming a reality. "Read the cable again," Grace said. "Oh, Mother! Now you're getting as bad as I am! I'll bet you've read it five times already in the last week." Grace began picking up Nancy's living room bric-a-brac and wrapping each piece in tissue paper. "T'll put these in the closet of your old room," she said, "and then they'll be sure not to get broken. No one ever gets into that closet any more. Now what about these scrapbooks?" Throw Down the Gauntlet ""Well I guess I'd better store my Treasures of Truth books and our wedding album but I'll take the baby books. Grant said I could take them all, they mean so much to me." Nancy had a faraway look on her face as she ran her hand lovingly across the raised viny] of the yellowed books. "TI mean if there should be a typhoon or something." "Come on, now, Nancy!"' Grace said, cheerfully. "Let's not think of this exciting new adventure in terms of disaster!"' Nancy picked up the books and clutched them in her arms. "Oh, Mother, if only I were sure it's the right thing. We've prayed about it. And when I read the letters from Sister Mortensen and when I talk to Grant TI really feel as if it's the greatest opportunity in the world. And I have such a good feeling about it. But." "But what?" Grace folded the lid flaps on the box she was packing and took the books from Nancy. ""'Well like one lady. Mother, I didn't even know who she was. She came up to me in the grocery store when I had Amy and Skipper with me. And she shook her finger at me and said, 'You have a lot of nerve taking those poor little babies clear out of civilization.' "' Grace laughed. "Really, Nancy. How can you let a thing like that get you down? She doesn't even know where you're going." "I know. But then there was this man in the doctor's office. We were sitting there waiting to get our typhoid shots, and the re- 769 October 1967 ceptionist said, 'Oh, Mrs. Jackson! How do you feel about going to Saipan?' I replied that we were really quite excited about it  when this man across the room growled at me. 'I wouldn't be excited! I have been there!' " "Well, he was obviously there during the war, Nancy. I'm sure things are much, much different now." Grace sat down on the couch and slipped her shoes off. ''When we did see the doctor," Nancy went on, "he did his level best to talk me out of going. He said I wouldn't like having a baby on Saipan, and that I should stay here until it comes!" Grace reached up and took Nancy's hand. "Oh, my, what a mood you're in," she said. "Time to throw down the gauntlet!" '""What's that mean?" "Tt's an old knighthood expression," Grace said. "A knight used to take off one of his gloves and throw it down in the face of his opponent to defy him or challenge him. When I was a young girl and thought the worst was about to happen, your grandfather would always tell me to 'throw down the gauntlet!' Now it's your turn, Nancy. You Grant and _ the children are facing a_ strange new kind of life. You're bound to meet adversity. But defy it. Challenge it! Never let discouragement or bitterness reign as victors in your life. Nancy, you've seen people who grovel in their misery and drag everyone around them down. And then you've seen others like your bishop's wife who bounce back and never admit that life has been anything but rich and happy." supposed to 770 She gave Nancy's hand a gentle squeeze. "Now, what kind of wife and mother is my girl going to be?" Nancy smiled. "Armored all the way, I guess." "That's what I like to hear! Now, tell me. What did Sally and Tom decide about the dance studio?" "Tom thinks it's a great idea! But you know Sally. Coming to substitute for me while I had the baby was one thing, but taking it over on a full-time scale well, you know your baby daughter. It sounds too confining! But they'll probably give up their apartment and do it anyway." Girace laughed. "Be patient with her, Nancy. She'll grow up." Then Grace looked around at the clutter of packing. "Couldn't you put some of this off a little?" she asked. "'At least until you know when you're going?" "Oh, Mother, I'd rather get it over with now and not have to worry about it. Besides, the cable accepting Grant said a letter would follow. And a large brown envelope came in this morning's mail. So that's probably the travel authorization." "You mean you didn't open it?" '"'Well, I'm sure that's what it is  so why should I spoil Grant's fun? Besides, wasn't it you who taught me not to open other people's mail?" "But this concerns both of you, Nancy." "Oh, Grant'll be home pretty soon. Come upstairs now and help me sort out my linens, will you? I'll store the tablecloths that Grandma gave me, but some of the others I'll have to take. Sister Mortensen wrote that Saipan social life consists almost exclusively of reciprocal dinners for anywhere from eight to sixteen people. Can you imagine it? I've never had twelve people to dinner at one time yet and now it looks as if I may find myself four short in the china department. Oh, well, you read her letter. I just can't picture myself in the social whirl she describes. I've never dreamed of getting involved in anything like it. She said they reminded her of the amateur shows we went to when we were kids. I'm not so sure that will be my favorite sport!" They both laughed, with the anticipation of an exciting adventure. Heirloom linens were sorted into one pile to be stored. Best linens were sorted into a second pile to go in the surface shipment, and still a third pile of sheets and pillowcases was set aside to go air freight. "Actually, I have five divisions," Nancy said, "'air surface   storage   give-away   and throw-away. I lie awake half of every night sorting things into piles in my head." Grace looked at Nancy seriously. "As much as I dread your leaving, I will be glad when you are on your way for your sake." "Come on downstairs," Nancy said, '""'and we can see what the big brown envelope has to say! Grant is home." Nancy stopped short when she saw the look on Grant's face. ""What's the matter?" He held out the envelope from Trust Territory Headquarters. "You didn't open this?" "And then seal it again? Of course not!" Throw Down the Gauntlet "Here. Read the second paragraph of this letter," he said. It is urgent that we have additional qualified teaching personnel in Truk District. Although you asked specifically for a position on Saipan, you were aware that applications were being considered for the entire Trust Territory; and we assume you will concur in being sent to Truk for your first contract. "T don't understand," Nancy said. "It's very simple. We're not going to Saipan." "But, Grant! The packing's half done. I TI've given so many things away! Grant  we've made such a big thing about telling everyone we were going to Saipan. And after all the parties. Now what do we say?" Grace picked up the brown envelope and began thumbing through the papers. "What is all this?" she asked Grant. "Travel authorization   that means the Government has already contacted the mover and the airline for us; medical forms; allegiance forms; more information on things to bring." "And everything gives the location as Truk?" Grace asked. "Well, I won't go!" Nancy gestured. "If there's only one family of Latter-day Saints at headquarters what do you _ think there would be on Truk or whatever it is? We just can't go! They can't make us do that. Not after all our plans." "They also sent the contract,"' Grant said, his voice dropping to a hush, as if he himself didn't even want to hear the words he was saying. 'They would like it signed and back by return mail." (To be continued) 771 FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Relief Society Activities Southern Far East Mission Relief Society Grows Upper picture, (Bangkok Branch Relief Society) first row, seated: Barbara Fletcher, Second Counselor; Charlotte White, First Counselor; Virginia Lewis, President; Arizona Flammer, Secretary-treasurer. Ne picture, Hong Kong Branch Relief Society. (No identification available. Marilyn J. Garner, Supervisor, Southern Far East Mission Relief Society, reports: "We have dedicated sisters among the members all over this mission and are. Grateful for their love and devotion to the work. We are growing in numbers and experience. "The Bangkok Branch organized a Relief Society in January 1966. In June 1966, the group was organized into a district by President Garner. This is typical of the growth throughout the mission." East Rigby Stake (Idaho) Visiting Teacher Convention April 1, 1967 Front row, left to right: LaVella Brown, Secretary; Fern Rhodes, Homemaking Counselor; Beth Brown, President; Renee Graham, Education Counselor. Second row, left to right: Florence Monson, stake visiting teacher message leader; Vera Sperry, ward president; Mary Ferguson, ward secretary; Isabelle Goff, ward visiting teacher message leader; Reva Finn, ward secretary; Mame Smith and Rachel Gallup, visiting teachers, each having served fifty-three years. Sister Brown reports: "The theme for our convention was 'You Are Emissaries of Relief Society.' Several speakers and the Ririe First Ward Singing Mothers highlighted the program. An original skit presenting the true life experiences and problems of our stake was performed; and the lovely film "Unto the Least of These' was shown. "The Shelton Ward was presented the book, History of Relief Society for | having the highest percentage in attendance at the convention. Special honors and a book were presented to two sisters for having served as visiting teachers for fifty-three years. A ward president, two secretaries, and a ward visiting teacher message leader were also cited for long years of service in their respective callings." 772 October 1967 North Box Elder Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Social April 29, 1967 Sister Nina H. Beecher, President, North Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports that a highly successful visiting teacher social was held to honor the ladies who had served so faithfully. "There were over 200 in attendance," she writes. "Lunch was served by the stake board and was followed by a fashion show. Each ward had models showing what mothers can do to stretch their clothing budget. The cost of the articles displayed' was compared with their counterparts in stores. Sisters were encouraged to avail themselves of a sewing program to be carried on during the summer. "Honors were given for various attainments, among which Sister Nellie Hansen, eighty-one, was honored as being the eldest teacher, teaching for over fifty years. "The Bear River Ward received a lovely picture of the Relief Society General Presidency for being the ward with the highest percentage of visiting teachers at Relief Society meetings during the past season." Alameda Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Program For Anniversary Day, March 15, 1967 Hazel Farnes, President, Alameda Stake Relief Society, reports: "To celebrate our Relief Society's 125th birthday, we presented a lovely musical program 'The Mothers Sing,' and the dramatization 'The Gift?' by Luacine C. Fox. The program was arranged under the leadership of President Farnes and her Counselors Dorothy Bosquet and Lena Henderson, and music directors La Dawn Jackman and Carol Furniss. Wilma Anderson was narrator of "The Gift, and wrote the script for the concert. The Singing Mothers chorus, composed of singers from each of the seven wards, consisted of 110 members. Each ward presented a solo number, then the combined chorus sang hymns and Relief Society songs. It was truly a spiritual experience for those taking part and also for the audience. Each sister in the chorus was presented with a beautiful red carnation corsage."' Palomar Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert For Relief Society Anniversary Observance, March 17, 1967 Front row: Mary E. Stewart, director (in white dress); second row, at the right: Mary Stucki, pianist; Mary Jo Lund, organist. Phyllis F. Fox, President, Palomar Stake Relief Society, reports: ""The Palomar Stake Relief Society presented the first Singing Mothers concert ever to be presented in the stake in commemoration of the 125th Anniversary. Seven out of the nine wards were represented, making a total of thirty-nine Singing Mothers. Fourteen selections, both sacred and secular, were presented, along with a narration written and read by Eleanor Diener, stake cultural refinement leader. Guest artists presented a flute and string ensemble. Approximately 600 people, including many nonmembers, attended. The comments received were very gratifying, and a standing ovation was given the sisters at the conclusion of the program. Many hours of practice went into preparation for the concert, and the sisters are to be commended. Refreshments in the form of a beautiful three-tiered cake, baked and decorated by the stake homemaking leader, Carol Christensen, and punch were served. Displays depicting the full Relief Society program were set up around the hall for viewing." 774 October 1967 Las Vegas (Nevada) Stake Encourages Magazine Sales * Left to right: Mary Ann Sorenson; Dee Snickle; Donna Brinkerhoff; Sharon Rather; Fannie Bloxham, stake Magazine representative; Adaline McDonald; Afton Allsop; Ann Smith; Kay Rogers; Norma Bowman. Sister Ileann W. Peterson, President, Las Vegas Stake Relief Society, reports: "Through their dedicated effort, this group of ward and branch Relief Society Magazine representatives has earned the Las Vegas Stake seventh place among the stakes of the Church in Magazine sales. We are very proud of this fine record. To encourage the Magazine representatives to increase their sales, the beautiful picture "The Gleaners' was presented to the ward with the largest number of Magazines sold. The Ninth Ward received this painting to hang in their Relief Society room. Sister Adaline McDonald, Magazine representative of the Ninth Ward, sold 170 Magazines, which was seventy-four over her quota. She achieved 177 per cent." Boise Stake (Idaho) Presents "'Listen, My Fair Lady"' March 13, 1966 Shown welcoming the "'postlady"' Genevieve Cresswell, who is delivering The Relief Society Magazines, are, left to right, front row: Clara Anderson; Arvilla Sorenson; back row, left to right: Rachel Rich; Violet Hadley; Ethel Simpson; Lola (Realizin I. DoLittle) Harris; and Lucille Parker. President Lucille Johnson, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "The original skit 'Listen, My Fair Lady' was presented in our leadership meeting by our magazine department. It was written by Wyleen Fotheringham and presented in Relief Society General Conference in 1966. "Our audience was captivated by the neighbors of Realizin I. DoLittle, who represents all Magazine representatives. They gathered on 'The Street Where You Live' and demonstrated how life is changed through the magic of The Relief Society Magazine. An enchanting setting, a worthwhile message, and an excellent performance made the 'Magazine Musical' a highlight of our leadership year." Mount Logan Stake (Utah) Commemorates the Birth of Relief Society March 17, 1967 Pictured is a handmade gold leaf plaque of the Relief Society seal. It was made by Zeruah Thomson, stake Homemaking Counselor, who is standing at left. Center is President Relda Jorgensen; right, Counselor Lucille Campbell. Sister Jorgensen reports: '""'The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, now known as the Relief Society, was organized on March 17, 1842 in Nauvoo, Illinois. "On March 17, 1967, we celebrated the 125th birthday of the organization. Typical of the crafts in the homemaking department is this handmade plaque mounted on blue velvet. It was made in memory of Sister Thomson's grandmother who served as Relief Society President for twenty-five years, and to her mother, who was a stake board member, as well as to those first eighteen women who organized the Relief Society. To commemorate the birthday of the Relief Society, Sister Thompson presented this plaque to the Mt. Logan Stake Relief Society." 776 October 1967 Farr West Stake (Utah) Presents ''Leadership Through the Years" March 18, 1967 Seated, left to right: former Farr West Stake Relief Society presidents: Nellie W. Neal; Geneva J. Garfield; Geneva Law; standing: Ada J. Taylor and current President Saidie H. Parker. Sister Parker reports: 'In our stake Relief Society leadership meetings for the past two years, each ward, in turn, has featured the life of one of our past stake Relief Society presidents. "A life-sized book entitled 'Leadership Through the Years' was opened by two attendants to reveal the 'president' in retrospect. A sketch of her personality and activities was given; as well as lovely music befitting the program. The sister representing the president bore her testimony and told of the many cherished and inspiring experiences which highlighted her term in office." East Idaho Falls Stake Cultural Fair April 7, 1967 Rita Haws, chairman of the flower arrangements, pictured with the display tables. Glen Sargent, President, East Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "We held our cultural fair as a means of raising money for the stake to operate on. Although the fair was held during April Conference which prevented the attendance of some of the bishops and the stake presidency, we had a large turnout during the day and in the evening. We awarded prize ribbons for many of the entries. "The program, we felt, was outstanding. We had the winning poetry and stories from our literature contest read, and original music was performed, of which two were sacred numbers. We printed a booklet of all entries in the literature contest. "The evening program was based on the theme "Time For Culture,' and featured various fields of culture. There was a great deal of enthusiasm created, and we have had requests for a similar affair next year." Smithfield Stake (Utah) Holds Closing Social April 24, 1967 Left to right, ward Relief Society presidents: Evelyn H. Hansen, Amalga; Laura C. Hensen, Second; Deanna H. Godfrey, Clarkston; Kathryn T. Rasmussen, Newton; Joy J. Pitcher, First; Reta C. Cantell, Fifth; Evelyn D. Follett, Fourth; Rae J. Meyer, Third. Sister Selena Gregory Low, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports: 'The closing social was held in conjunction with the regular leadership meeting. The theme, 'Everyone Remembered' was used to emphasize the efforts made to involve every sister in some phase of Relief Society. Working women and young mothers took part. In a lovely, inspiring presentation. A beautiful homemaking display from the Amalga and Second Wards was presented. Recipes from The Relief Society Magazine were used for the delicious luncheon, with reference to each recipe on the printed programs. An exquisite table decoration was arranged by Sister Edna Berg, Smithfield Third Ward." 778 SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 84 Sustain the Brethren Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 108) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman is blessed as she observes her vows and sustains the Brethren in authority. INTRODUCTION From the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants. Many lessons are learned from the experience of early members of the Church. May we assume that instructions given to an individual at that time apply to members of the Church many decades later? When the Lord reveals a principle of salvation to one or to many, the same principle applies to all of us, provided he has not placed that law in abeyance. (D&C 93: 49.) Important instructions for the benefit of Lyman Sherman are recorded in Section 108. These truths are so essential to every member of the Church that exal- 780 tation in the celestial kingdom is impossible without obedience to them. RESISTING THE VOICE OF THE LORD Lyman Sherman resisted the voice of the Lord by failing to observe the vows he had made with the Lord. (Ibid., 108:3.) Wherein do Latter-day Saints resist the Lord's voice? It may be, as it was with Brother Sherman, that the still, small voice is resisted when it brings assurance that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is God's organization on the earth. It may be resisted when the Spirit whispers, when a choice must be made between other activities and at- tending to one's responsibilities in the Church (attendance at appointed meetings, performance of Church activities when scheduled), that one should place the kingdom of God first. It may be resisted when one's inclination to observe the various laws of the gospel, such as the Word of Wisdom, tithing, honesty, and so forth, are ignored in favor of spending the Lord's money for some pleasure, or lying in order to gain some advantage. There are numerous ways in which one may resist the voice of the Lord. REPENTANCE In Brother Sherman's case we have an example of the Lord's concern for the repentant. This principle requires that the individual who has repented of his sins should be prepared to keep the covenants he has made with the Lord. Forgiveness comes from the Lord, as it did to Brother Sherman. (Ibid., v. 1.) It is certain that when the Lord said to him ''be more careful henceforth in observing your vows" (Ibid., v. 3), this same counsel could be said to every member of the Church. Class Discussion Why do you believe that you might profitably accept the counsel to Brother Sherman to be more careful in observing his vows? YOUR VOWS The word "vow" or '"'vows" as used in the Doctrine and Covenants follows the dictionary definition. A "vow" is a solemn promise or pledge, especially one made to God in which the person dedicates himself to service or a way of life. Lesson Department The word is used in association with words having similar meanings, such as covenants, contracts, bonds, obligations, oaths, and performances. It can be rightly said that every person who has accepted membership into. The Church has made vows whereby he will abide by the laws of that kingdom. (Ibid., 41:5.) These covenants are to be observed "in righteousness on all days and at all times" (Ibid., 59:11). PREMORTAL VOWS In the Great Council convened in the heavens before the earth was formed, the plan of salvation was presented to the spirit sons and daughters of God: Those who accepted the plan were permitted to receive a mortal body on the earth where they would "work out their salvation."' When we accepted the plan of salvation in the pre-earth life, we committed ourselves to abide by its laws and ordinances. (John A. Widtsoe, Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine, October 1934, p. 289.) Class Discussion Believing with all your heart that you lived premortally and that you made covenants there to perform certain services on the earth, how do you feel about fulfilling these covenants? VOWS OF THE KINGDOM Latter-day Saints begin their contract obligations at baptism. This vow includes the determination that the member will serve the Lord and show this by his works. (D&C 20:37.) The privilege of partaking of the sacrament to renew the covenants made in baptism is for the member of the Church. (3 Nephi 781 October 1967 18:5, 11.) These covenants include the following three things: (1) to take upon oneself the name of Christ; (2) always to remember him; and (3) to keep his commandments. (D&C 20:77-79.) In order to fulfill these vows the Lord said: And the members shall manifest before the church, and also before the elders, by a godly walk and conversation, that they are worthy of it, that there may be works and faith agreeable to the holy scriptures walking in holiness before the Lord (Jbid., 20:69). Those who receive the Melchizedek Priesthood make an 'oath and covenant" (Ibid., 84:40) that they will honor that Priesthood. (Ibid., 84:33-41.) Class Discussion What is your responsibility as a Latter-day Saint woman to encourage those holding the Priesthood? In the House of the Lord members of the Church have an additional privilege to make sacred covenants with him. President Joseph F. Smith, sixth President of the Church, in these words mentions some of these vows and the importance of observing them: We enter into covenants with the Lord that we will keep ourselves pure and unspotted from the world. We have agreed before God, angels and witnesses, in sacred places, that we will not commit adultery, will not lie, that we will not steal or bear false witness against our neighbor, or take advantage of the weak, that we will help and sustain our fellow men in the right, and take such a course as will prove effectual in helping the weak to overcome their weaknesses and bring themselves into subjection to the requirements of heaven. We cannot neglect, slight, or depart from the spirit, 782 meaning, intent and purpose, of these covenants and agreements, that we have entered into with our Father in Heaven, without shearing ourselves of our glory, strength, right and title to his blessings, and to the gifts and manifestations of his Spirit (Improvement Era 9:818). IMPORTANCE OF VOWS The Lord has declared by revelation that only those ordinances performed by his Priesthood at the time the recipients make vows, contracts, and covenants, remain in force when men are dead. All others "are of no efficacy, virtue, or force in and after the resurrection from the dead" (D&C 132:7). The person who turns away. From the vow which he has made with the Lord will find not only a loss of the promised blessings but cursings. (D&C 41:1; 124:48.) It is man who turns from the covenant, not the Lord. Class Discussion Why do you think that breaking a covenant with the Lord is a serious matter? STRENGTHEN YOUR BRETHREN On one occasion when the Israelites were brought out of Egyptian bondage, they were obliged to fight against Amalek. Moses commanded Joshua and some men to fight Amalek. When Moses held up his hands, Israel prevailed, when his hands came down, Amalek prevailed. Victory came to Israel because Moses was insistent in keeping his hands up until Israel won the victory. But Moses' hands were heavy; and they took a stone, and put it under him, and he sat thereon; and Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side; and his hands were steady until the going down of the sun (Exodus 17:12). And so it has always been. When the Lord's anointed has been supported by the people, the people, also, progress. When a bearer of the Priesthood acts in his calling to further the kingdom of God on the earth, he is performing service as though the Lord were doing it. (D&C 84:35- 38.) Symbolically, the saints covenant to support their leaders when they raise their hands to the square to sustain them. When a member of the Church refuses to accept the counsel of the First Presidency of the Church, he lays the foundation for insecurity. Such a person in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith was criticized in a revela-   tion for rejecting such counsel. ([bid., 124:84.) What does a person lose in his rebellion against the Lord's servants? President Joseph F. Smith answers by saying that the person '"'cuts himself off from the privileges and blessings of the Priesthood and Church, and severs himself from the people of God" (Journal of Discourses 24:193). COUNSEL TO ALL If a person enjoys the Spirit of the Lord, it will keep him from losing his faith and_ turning against the servants of the Lord. Some people, as President Joseph F. Smith said, will become critical because they "consider the small, mostly unintentionally committed errors of its officers, rather than the broader and more important labors" performed by them. (Gospel Doctrine, p. 254.) Lesson Department There are some specific things which members may do in sustaining those who preside over them. The Lord refers to these ways in the revelation to Elder Sherman, as follows: Therefore, strengthen your brethren in all your conversation, in all your prayers, in all your exhortations, and in all your doings (D&C 108:7). IN ALL YOUR CONVERSATIONS True loyalty to our friends and to our leaders is put to the test when we are not with them; when we have the opportunity to express our feelings to others about them. In all our conversations we are admonished to sustain those who preside over us. To speak falsehoods or rumors about someone is contrary to the principle of love of neighbor, a commandment under which we are placed. Surely one is not following this second great commandment if he is telling anything which would hurt another's character. (Matt. 22: 36-40; John 13:34-35.) In fact, James said that if one did not bridle his tongue, his religion was vain. (James 1:26.) It is believed by some that because something is true about a person, this thing can be told. Nothing could be further from the truth than to believe that one is justified in speaking the truth about a person regardless of the harm which may come to him because of it. Who knows but what that person has repented of that fault? The gospel teaches us that if we expect to receive forgiveness for sins we must also forgive others. (James EK. Talmage, Articles of Faith, pp. 110-111.) We have no right to discredit a person before others. If the Lord has ac- '783 October 1967 cepted one's repentance, who has the right to mention one's faults to someone else? (D&C 58:42; Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, p. 263.) When we speak well of our leaders we increase their usefulness. An obligation rests upon the member of the Church to defend the character of an officer when assailed by someone. We cannot undo the wrong of bearing false witness against someone. (George F. Richards, Conference Report, April 1947, pp. 24, 26.) Parents who speak adversely against those in authority do harm to their children. Elder Mark E. Petersen related the case of parents who spoke against the bishop regularly in the home with consequent loss of respect for Church authorities by the children and which resulted in their being inactive. (Conference Report, October 1952, p. 30.) Two questions might well be asked by the person who is about to speak against another. First, what good will it do me to speak this thought? Second, what harm will what I say do to the person about whom I am about to speak? Class Discussion Explain how you can sustain the brethren in your conversations. IN ALL YOUR PRAYERS The person who has received the testimony that prayers are fulfilled, is anxious that the Lord will prosper the leaders of the Church. True love of those who preside in the Church is shown when there is a sincere desire for their physical well-being, their power to accomplish their calling, and for protection against harm. 784 This desire arises out of one's knowledge that the Lord has appointed the leaders and that the kingdom of God will prosper through these divinely appointed servants. With these solicitous feelings, the member of the Church prays that the Lord will bless the leaders. In a revelation, the Prophet Joseph Smith prayed that the Lord would remember the Presidents of the Church, that they might be exalted before the people, even that their names would be perpetuated through generations of time by what they would be able to accomplish. (D&C 109:71.) If a member of the Church does not sustain the brethren by praying for them, it would seem that he lacks the welfare of Zion in his heart. On the other hand, by this practice he builds in his own heart a further desire to accomplish his own responsibilities in the Church. The faithful member of the Church knows that the Lord will answer his prayers in behalf of his servants. IN ALL YOUR EXHORTATIONS Among the ways in which a member of the Church may show that he sustains those over him, is to show his loyalty in public. There are occasions when the Latter-day Saint has the opportunity to make such expressions, such as the testimony meeting, or when called upon to teach a: class, or when speaking in the various meetings. In addition to counseling others to sustain the leadership of the Church, appreciation may be expressed for their diligent service. Although men and women must occupy positions of leadership in directing the work of the Lord, it should be remembered that one also honors the position or calling rather than the individual only. (Spencer W. Kimball, Conference Report, October 1958, p. 57.) When one remembers that the person appointed to office has not sought the position, but the Lord through his servants has appointed him, it should be evident that when respect is not shown to the leader, there is a disregard for the Priesthood of God. (Matt. 12: 30.) Class Discussion What value accrues to the presiding officer in the Church through the prayers of the saints and also in their exhortations? What value comes to the member of the Church when he prays for those over him and also when he sustains them publicly? IN ALL YOUR DOINGS In order that Elder Sherman and all other members of the Church might understand the extent to which one should sustain Lesson Department the brethren over them, the Lord said that this should be done '"'in all your doings' (D&C 108:7). _Probably one of the additional ways in which this can be done is to accept the calls made upon the member by those in authority. CONCLUSION The Lord has said that only those who sustain his servants will find the blessings of the gospel. And if my people will hearken unto my voice, and unto the voice of my servants whom I have appointed to lead my people, behold, verily I say unto you, they shall not be moved out of their place. But if they will not hearken to my voice, nor unto the voice of these men whom I have appointed, they shall not be blest, because they pollute mine holy grounds, and mine holy ordinances, and charters, and my holy words which I give unto them (D&C 124:45- 46). The member of the Church who sustains all of the officers of his ward, stake, and the General Authorities finds rich blessings. R BURNISHED FIELD Gladys Hesser Burnham When ripening grain waves softly in the breeze Rippling over hill and swale, it leaves An undulating swell like ocean waves In constant movement. Warming sunshine cleaves To golden stems and burnished fields await The combine. Circling furrows spin As heat waves shimmer, and the only noise A smokey drift of seagulls wheeling in To search out fallen grains. They glide and poise, Squalling a discord to a pleasant scene. ~ 785 October 1967 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths To Live By Message 4 A Loving Person Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: To become a loving person requires desire, study, and practice. One mellow summer evening ln the Caf  Mozart around the corner from Vienna's Opera House, an Austrian woman sociologist explained why the terrors of two world wars had caused many Viennese to grow fearful. "No one has been admitted to my intimate friendship circle since childhood. I have many acquaintances, but few friends. I don't want more friends. I'd be afraid of them." Did she reflect the uneasiness many people feel, due, perhaps, not to war but to unhappy _experiences with others? Do we want friends? Do we want to love others? She who becomes a friend must_wantt-to_love. The expression of love requires skill. It can be learned. Jesus and all the prophets to the present day have taught_this_ skill. To excel in love, as in all great attainments, requires training. Historians, modern scientists, men of learning in other areas have insights for us. We should be selective _as we study, so that our growing knowledge will be in harmony with the gospel. We have many opportunities to practice and to help others grow into a loving relationship with us. 786 A woman discovered a neighbor's child pulling up her flowers. She asked him why he did this. He said, "Mommie loves pretty flowers. I am taking her these." The woman talked with the child about a flower's needs. She told him that flowers needed to be picked, not pulled, showing him how this was done. She asked him to come to her next time and together they would decide which ones were ready to be picked. She told him that she was glad he loved flowers. Gradually they developed a common interest in flowers and became good friends. He became as protective of her garden as she. A loquacious and complaining woman alienated most. Of-her family and friends. One woman, understanding her loneliness and insecurity, listened to her and found they had many common interests. Focusing on these, she helped the woman, at least temporarily, to forget her problems. It took only a few hours a month to help this troubled sister. Love makes. Demands. It calls for continual growth and development. To become a loving person a woman learns to admit_freely when she is wrong. She learns to discuss; misunderstandings without anger. She acquires skill in correcting others so that they are not wounded. She encourages excellence in others and is patient as she waits for them to develop. Lesson Department A friend in trouble is sustained without being judged. When something does not work in her relationship with others, she tries repeatedly until she finds a good solution. It takes a dedicated _effort to become.. A_loving. Person. HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 4 The Kitchen The Heart of the Home Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: To show that the kitchen can be the heart of the home, where human needs are satisfied. Great riches other rooms adorn But in a kitchen, home is born. INTRODUCTION One of the clearest indications of a happy family relationship is the warmth and happiness which emanates from the home itself. It is not a new concept that the kitchen is "the heart of the home." Since fire was first brought inside as a means of providing warmth and of cooking food, the kitchen has been a warm, welcoming place. It is even more than that. It has become the center of most of the homemaking activities, and women probably spend more time there than in any other room. In the humblest of homes, as well as the most modem, the kitchen can and should be a delightful place to linger. A woman who cares about the welfare of her family will make her kitchen a place where everything works together to bring the warmth and inviting quality so necessary to this important center of the home where her family dwells. WHAT MAKES A GOOD KITCHEN? There are certain fundamental requirements for any kitchen regardless of its size or its cost, and regardless of where it may be if it is successfully to fulfill its func-  tion as the heart of the home. 1. It should be clean. Cleanliness is of the utmost importance in the kitchen, not only because it is requisite to the health of the family, but also because it is basic to all the laws and virtues of good living. Without cleanliness, there can be neither order nor efficiency, both of which are essential to all patterns of life both within the home and outside of it. In this enlightened modern age, no woman needs to be without a knowledge of the means and methods of applying proper sanitation in her home especially in her kitchen. After the basic rules of sanitation have been complied with, it is surprising how easily her other cleaning problems can _ be solved and her work load lightened with a few simple preliminary preparations. 787 October 1967 For Discussion Discuss methods and examples of how cleaning problems may be solved. 2. It should be well-lighted. Since the kitchen is essentially a woman's workshop, adequate lighting is as necessary to her there as it is to any technician in his laboratory. No homemaker can function at her best in gloom and shadow. It should be well-ventilated. Most kitchens, especially modern ones, are open to adjoining areas; therefore, care should be taken to keep odors of cooking where they belong. Vents, fans, open windows and doors and other air-conditioning devices should be a part of every kitchen. (Penetrating cooking odors can be reduced by adding a few celery tops or outside leaves of lettuce to the pan. The chlorophyll in the green leaves accomplishes this.). It should be convenient. Whether the kitchen area is large or small, it should be well-organized through the relationship of appliances, work areas, and storage space. Frequently used items should be stored so that they are easily seen and easily reached, and those seldom used stored elsewhere or discarded. Cabinets and drawers cluttered with unnecessary utensils are a waste of time and effort to keep in order. It should be well-equipped. A homemaker, like any other artist or craftsman, should have the best tools she can afford. Markets all over the world carry equipment for those whose budget is limited or for those to whom money is no object. Some of the humblest kitchens have the most interesting and practical equipment and accessories. It should be attractive and inviting. The kitchen has an obligation to be a visual, as well as a practical asset, to the home. The combination of color, texture, and pattern are fun to work out and a joy to the beholder. Who among us does not enjoy the warm shine of copper and brass or the cool gleam of pewter? The idea of beauty in the kitchen is not new. That our grandmothers and our great-grandmothers before 788 them were aware of the need for beauty was evident in their flowering plants, their hanging flower boxes, and their flowering window sills. To neighbors on all sides we are indebted for the contributions which they have made to the beauty and culture which we have adapted to our own situations: To England for its leaded panes, its solid rough-hewn beams, its inviting open hearths; to the sunny countries of the Mediterranean for their white-plastered walls and ceilings and their varicolored tiles; to Mexico for her embossed tin and tooled leather and her decorative garlands of dried gourds, fruits, and vegetables; to France and Switzerland for colorful and picturesque toiles and other decorative accessories; to the Netherlands for their quaint Dutch doors and their exquisite lace window curtains; to Germany, Scandinavia, the Islands of the seas, and the countries of the Far East for their untold treasures of beauty to all of these, and others, we are indebted for much of the beauty in the heart of our own homes. CONCLUSION A kitchen which is clean, orderly, and efficient helps to establish the atmosphere for happy home living. If, along with these indispensable qualities, it is enhanced in beauty with the things which the family loves to live with, the kitchen can truly be called the heart of the home. To Discuss (If desired, these suggestions could precede the conclusion.) 1. M, 3. How can we apply these desired qualities to our own kitchens? Can we achieve these ends and still live within our budget? Discuss how an efficient kitchen can lessen rather than add to the work load of the homemaker. Give examples showing how cleanliness and beauty in the kitchen are conducive to the well-being of the family. Lesson Department SOCIAL RELATIONS A Light Unto the World Lesson 4 What Will They Remember? Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman realizes her responsibility to represent the standards of the Church in all aspects of personal deportment. INTRODUCTION Two questions are correlated and discussed in this lesson, (1) Can the Latter-day Saint woman retain her religious identity and still be an active participant in social or civic groups whose membership are of different faiths? (2) How does being attractively dressed relate to the standard of modesty? These questions are of interest and special importance to the Latter-day Saint woman in today's world. Whether she lives in a small community or in a metropolis, she may encounter activities and clothing styles which are not in harmony with standards which she has set for herself or which have been established by the Church. How she reacts to these situations may depend upon her sensitivity to the standards of good taste and her courage in holding fast to her personal religious convictions. (To class leaders: It will be well for class leaders to discuss both questions, developing more fully those areas of greater interest and application to their particular Relief Society group.) PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY Each individual woman represents someone other than herself. She represents her family, her friends, her community, her Church, her nation, and, were it possible for a woman to have no living relative and no pointable affiliation, she is still a child of God and therefore represents humanity. Because she does not stand alone, and, therefore, is not a law unto herself, her actions reflect favorably or unfavorably upon those whom she represents. Intelligent representation of any group can come only if the members are familiar with the objectives and standards of that group. The Latter-day Saint woman who, through enthusiastic choice or by persuasion, affiliates with a non-Church group, needs to become familiar with the purposes and standards of that group. She also will need to review in her mind what the standards of the Church are on particular issues, if she is to represent the Church fairly, thus retaining her Church identity. She may wish to ask herself, ""What does the Church 789 October 1967 teach?" In the Articles of Faith we read, 'We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all 39 men... CJ Question Would these qualities constitute a good standard for judging a woman's personal performance? Discuss. Following are some organized groups having different specific objectives and which may have varying standards of personal conduct. 1. The strictly social group (objective being to enjoy leisure-time activities). 2. The culture club (objective being to enlarge one's appreciation for the cultural arts). 3. The civic organization (objective being to study or promote community programs and projects). 4. The scholastic club (objective being to study education problems and to promote programs for school betterment). 5. The political organization (objective being to inform or motivate interest in local or national political issues and voting procedures). This list is only suggestive of innumerable group affiliations. Others may be suggested. Our concern in this lesson is whether or not a Latter-day Saint woman can enjoy membership and participation in a non-religious organization and neither compromise her standards nor unfavorably represent the Church. For discussion of this important question we turn to some individuals who have and are thus affiliating. Consider their comments, in response to specific questions put to them: Question: Mrs. B., you are active in community affairs and interested in civic legislation. How do you feel about your affiliation? Mrs. B.: Community activities need interested and dependable men and women. I enjoy my civic affiliations 790 and am delighted when individuals not of our faith ask about the Church. I am proud to tell them what we believe. Question: Has the Word of Wisdom created any problem for you, in mingling with non-Church individuals? Mrs. B.: Never. Perhaps it is my home training, plus the fact that I have lived in different cities where there were very few members of the Church. I do not feel that I am being courageous. Believing firmly in the right of individual choice, I find it very easy to say, 'No, thank you, I don't smoke," or "No, thanks, I don't drink." It's as simple as that. Question: Mrs. E., you are affiliating with non-Church cultural groups. What has been your experience? - Mrs. E.: For me it has been more difficult, especially was it so at first. It has required courage. Perhaps this is because I had not established in my own mind the importance of certain Church standards. I had to find out what the Church recommends. The fact, however, that I am known to be a Latter-day Saint woman and thus represent the Church, has kept me from compromising some standards of conduct that I might otherwise have done. Question: Mrs. H., how do you feel about this? Mrs. H.: In the cultural and social non-Church groups with which I am associated, I have found that people of high quality accept you for what you are and represent, rather than whether or not you are going to conform to their beliefs. But, they expect you to be what you profess to be. I find that consistent living of one's own beliefs, not forcing them on others, makes for congenial and satisfying relationships. I have never needed to relinquish my beliefs or lower my standards. Question: Mrs. C., you are an active member of a small creative writing group. Its members represent several different religions. What is your experience? Mrs. C.: This affiliation is one of the rewarding associations of my life. Each of us respects the religious beliefs of all others. Our common bond is that of creatively interpreting life as we see it. I have found in these women of other faiths great integrity and, often, a compassion for others which has been an inspiration to me. I hope that my own feeling of moral responsibility and religious insight - are of like benefit to them. REMEMBERED BEHAVIOR The woman who thinks that infraction or compromise of a standard has only immediate effect, is not being realistic. She is not acknowledging the influence of memory. Very often the memory influence is more significant than the immediate reaction. Note the following comments, representing both favorable and unfavorable memories. Class Involvement Comment #1. It was once my professional assignment to hire mature females for our business. We found so much dependability and a strict adherence to the standards of morality in the Latter-day Saint women whom we had employed, that membership in their Church, alone, became almost an automatic recommendation for other Latter-day Saint women seeking employment with us. Comment #2. Years ago when we were summer touring, we became involved in a rather serious automobile accident. I shall never forget the kindness of a Mormon woman and her family to us. If her home is representative of her Church, it truly has much to recommend it. Comment #3. It had been my impression for years that the Latter-day Saints conformed to a certain code of behavior. I was so disappointed when a Latter-day Saint woman behaved contrary to her professed beliefs. It has lessened my esteem for her and I am wondering about the efficacy of the teachings of her Church. Question Do you believe this statement, "'NeiLesson Department ther the individual nor the Church can benefit when one of its members violates a behavior standard of the hurch"? Why? A Class Involvement In light of the foregoing individual comments, discuss the following questions: 1. How best may a Latter-day Saint woman project the ideals and standards of the Church into a nonChurch group' without = giving offense? 2. In what ways does it reflect upon the Church when a Latter-day Saint woman compromises a Church standard before a non-Church group? 3. Is greater harm done if the violation occurs before a non-Church group than before a group of her Church friends? If so, why? 4. What motives are most apt to cause a Latter-day Saint woman to apologize or to make even slightly unfavorable statements about the Church before a group of nonLatter-day Saints? 5. Need a Latter-day Saint woman ever be embarrassed to uphold Latter-day Saint standards before the world? 6. Is a Latter-day Saint woman apt to regain the esteem of a nonChurch group if once she has violated Church standards, even though she ceases a continuance of that violation? THE GOOD EXAMPLE OF THOSE WHO LEAD The examples of outstanding Latter-day Saint women who hold positions of honor and responsibility in organizations of nonChurch membership and who at all times honor and uphold Church standards, are respected and influential among women of other religious faiths. GUIDANCE IN DRESS The clothing one wears may 791 October 1967 and frequently does influence one's social behavior. It is, therefore, relevant 'tnat feminine clothing be considered in this lesson which deals with personal standards. We read with curious interest of the apparel, ornament, and devices employed by women throughout the ages in an attempt to enhance their physical appearance. Fashions in female dress have varied from age to age, culture to culture, country to country as they do even today. The prophet Isaiah spoke in denunciation of excess in female ornamentation, referring specifically to the tinkling ornaments, chains, bracelets, mufflers, ornaments of the legs, headbands, earrings, nose jewels, changeable suits of apparel, wimples, hoods and the vails, and crisping pins. (Isaiah 3:13- 23.) Latter-day prophets and Church leaders likewise have given counsel to Latter-day Saint women as to their wearing apparel. They stress the importance of modesty in dress as a virtue related to chastity. Elder Mark E. Petersen speaks of the responsibility of mothers in guiding their daughters toward standards of dress which are in keeping with the teachings of the Church. (See The Relief Society Magazine, January 1963, pp. 7-11.) The booklet ''For the Strength of Youth' (published by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City, Utah, Second Edition 1966) lays down guidelines. Questicns Discuss briefly: 1. Do you think mothers need this counsel as well as the daughters? 2. Do you think the statement that 792 mothers often encourage their daughters to wear strapless party gowns is true? FADS VERSUS CONSERVATISM The woman of today may find herself in a net of feminine allurements unless she is wise. Women's clothes, extremely styled and unbelievably costly are displayed in shop windows. Exotic and beautiful color combinations, attractive trim, and unusual design are praised in the daily papers. Too often a woman does not resist buying clothing which is too costly for the family budget and wholly unsuited to either her age or her figure. Instead of enhancing, such clothes may detract materially from her personality. Fashions in women's clothes vary from one extreme to another, but there are fundamental rules of proportion and design which are basic to good taste. The Latter-day Saint woman knows that good taste, modesty, and conservatism go hand in hand and that extreme fashions violate the basic rules of modesty and good taste. Class Involvement What, in your opinion, constitutes an attractively dressed, well-groomed, woman? WHAT WILL THEY REMEMBER? A number of women, interviewed for this lesson, were asked what they remembered most about their mother's grooming. Some of their answers follow. Discuss as time will permit. 1. I remember my mother's beautiful hair, always neatly and attractively dressed, even before breakfast. 2. My mother emphasized cleanliness more than any personal appearance quality. Whether in house dress or Sunday dress, she always looked immaculately clean. 3. My mother emphasized economy in clothing. An expert seamstress, she was proud of clothing her six children attractively on a fraction of what the purchased articles would have cost. 4. I remember my mother's shiny shoes. We were rather poor when I was young, but my mother insisted on neatness. 'Most everyone," she said, "can keep his shoes neat and clean." 5. My mother always looked very feminine. "Femininity," she said, "Gs the birthright of a woman. Don't sell it for a mess of potage." CONCLUSION Latter-day Saint women have a dual responsibility, through their living, to project the truth and soundness of gospel teachings Lesson Department to others. They owe this standard of performance to themselves and to the Church. This responsibility embraces more than what they say, or even what they do as a social action. It embraces, also, their standard of dress. The intelligent and wise Latter-day Saint woman will consider modesty, appropriateness, and conservatism as essential to good taste in dress, essential to being a womanly woman. FOR HOME-DOING Check your non-Church affiliations to see if you are being fair to yourself and to the Church. If not, grasp every opportunity to do so. Help your children and your friends by your example to see that modesty is a factor in a standard of good taste in dress. Ask yourself, what will my children likely remember about me? CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas) Lesson 3 "''Patience and Forbearance'"' Elder Robert K. Thomas "In your patience possess ye your souls.''- New Testament (Luke 21:19) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: To show that a woman who lets patience turn into resignation is substituting endurance for forbearance. (Note to Class Leader: This lesson will include the musical selection Brahms, Symphony No. 1, 2d Movement, from the Relief Society teaching aid kit.) INTRODUCTION It is appropriate that a section concerning patience should follow the two preceding lessons discussing cheerfulness and honesty, for patience often carries needlessly bleak connotations and, occasionally, is surrounded by illusions. When Henry David Thoreau insisted that resignation was "confirmed desperation," he was 793 October 1967 hoping to jar his readers into an awareness that some of the accepted Christian virtues were in danger of being weakened by alignment with their slightly more passive counterparts. For example, determination may become mere doggedness. Prudence turns into caution; and patience becomes resignation. The distinctions here may seem minor, hardly recognized by the dictionary, but, in practice, they have made an immense difference. For they have led many people to accept a less demanding standard under the impression that one was the equivalent of another. When resignation, for instance, is used as a synonym for patience, active effort does not seem to be quite so rigorously demanded. There is a suggestion of merely "hanging-on" in resignation. Patience should not be confused with such a state. The stereotype of the patient man is Job. Afflicted with boils, derided by many of his associates, he sits among ashes in tormented, passive resignation to the apparent will of God. The first two chapters of the book of Job suggest such a picture, but, beginning with chapter three, we have thirty-nine chapters which should deepen our understanding of Job's special difficulty and the general problem of patience. He is not resigned to his state, and in dialogue with the friends who come to comfort him, he tries his best to understand what has happened. It is the so-called comforters who exhort him simply to accept. Lest we assume that this is what the Lord wants in this case, we need to remember his explicit statement to the comforters 794 in the final chapter:.. My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends: for ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath (Job 42:7). SONNET 19 "ON HIS BLINDNESS" BY JOHN MILTON Milton's celebrated sonnet on his blindness makes just the right discriminations: When I consider how my light is spent Ere half my days in this dark world and wide, And that one talent which is death to hide Lodged with me useless, though my soul more bent To serve therewith my Maker, and present My true account, lest He returning chide; "Doth God exact day-labor, light denied?" I fondly ask. But patience, to prevent That murmur, soon replies, "God doth not need. Either man's work or his own gifts. Who best Bear his mild yoke, they serve him best. His state Is kingly: thousands at his bidding speed, And post o'er land and ocean without rest; They also serve who only stand and wait." This poem helps establish perspective. The Lord doesn't depend on the work of man, and the most frustrating part of our devotion to him may well stem from the fact that some of the obvious ways to serve may be denied us. "Day-labor" is easy to understand and easy to give. The parable of the talents which is here referred to appears to support this idea of active effort. It needs to be remembered that the final line does not refute the concept of work as Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT _ CLASS LEADERS.. Four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces.. Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12", 3313 rpm record) Price complete. $3.50 postpaid (Overseas orders Send_ international money order plus air mail charges Approx. Wt. 1 Ib.) Produced and distributed by DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION MEDIA SERVICES BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH 84601 ALSO AVAILABLE FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY AND B. Y. U. ADULT EDUCATION CENTERS Tour-ific! MEXICO Monthly HAWAII October 13 November 17 December 28 TEMPLE TOUR October 23 ROSE PARADE For all travel and ticketing arrangements ARET Ce AVEL S "ny 110 East 2nd South. Salt Lake City, Utah A S<8-808) 571 032 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 Lesson Department service; it only suggests that we are not always allowed to set the conditions under which we serve. As we prepare ourselves to receive counsel at the Lord's hand, the result is dynamic. Waiting is not an end in itself but the prelude to something we have yet to envision. Few poems are more successful than this in establishing a fresh look at patience. The problem is not whether one can endure calamity; the real test is whether one can persist and grow. Although there has been some discussion by critics concerning the precise date of this poem, it is generally agreed that it was probably written between 1652 and 1655 while Milton was Secretary for Foreign Tongues to the Council of State. Apparently he was totally blind by 1652 at the age of forty-four, although the exact cause of his blindness has never been discovered. There is no question but that Milton was overwhelmed by his loss, and his usual self-confidence appears to have been dealt a crushing blow. But there is little justification in citing this poem as one of total abnegation, for Milton has made peace with his fate. He is saying that his own deeds and genius are of less value than personal integrity. He is prepared to receive counsel at the: Lord's hand. For Discussion What danger is there in using the final line of Sonnet 19 without seeing it in its poetic context? "AND NOW TO LIVE AGAIN" We see a very courageous young woman persist and grow in Betsey Barton's And Now to Live Again. Confined to a wheelchair 795 October 1967 from her youth as the result of an automobile accident, Miss Barton lets us see her beginning despondency and final triumph. When she finally sets down an account of her private Gethsemane, however, she has been able to transmute pain and despair into insight and understanding. In so doing she details the process by which we may all turn from the apparently hopeless to the clearly hopeful. Not the least of Miss Barton's accomplishment is persuading her readers that expectation of recovery need not underlie patience. In fact, the full meaning of patience is lost on the person who finds in it only the discipline of waiting for his pain to cease or his difficulties to vanish. In reading Miss Barton's account we begin to appreciate the statement of the apostle Paul. In 2 Corinthians 12: 7-10, he tells us that he "besought the Lord thrice" that his "thorn in the flesh" might be taken from him. When it was not, he learned not only to accept it but to glory "in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities." Such a positive approach rescues patience from its too easy identification with mere endurance. For Discussion To be patient usually suggests waiting for a positive result after a period of distress. Why is patience still meaningful to someone in Miss Barton's condition? POEMS BY WANG WEI Besides being a major poet, Wang Wei (699-759) was a fine painter and musician. In addition he was known as a_ physician. When he was in his early thirties, 796 Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper mach  jewelry, liquid steel, paper flowers, gold leafing, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50  Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. RaNae Gledhill, Owner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 Phone 486-1017 THINKING ABOUT GE NE Alo-.9 Gy5 LET US HELP YOU! Competent Professional Research at prices You can afford VAIL RESEARCH FOUNDATION Box 581 Salt Lake City, Utah MEXICO WHERE THE SUNSHINE AND FLOWERS SPEND THE WINTER FIESTA TOUR February 3-18 Fully Escorted ONLY $250 (double occupancy) Includes all lst class hotels, transportation, sightseeing, 12 meals VISIT ELEVEN ARCHEOLOGICAL SITES Leaving from and returning to El Paso, Texas, by train first class, immaculate private bedrooms, club car and diner ERMA WHITE 15 years experience taking tours to Mexico Call: 484-9752 Write: 1795 East 3170 South Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 SPACE LIMITED! Make reservations immediately BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover   $3.25; Leather Cover   $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompony all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3 60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 80   _  Lesson Department his wife died, and he retired from government activity to devote himself to poetry and religion. As a young man, Wang Wei had become a proficient narrative poet, but the poems we remember him best for today are the short, intuitive lyrics which catch the essence of his Taoist-Buddhist devotion. The poetry of Wang Wei introduces us to Oriental serenity. Such serenity may appear to be unusually attractive when contrasted with Western activity. Thousands of years and myriad lives seem to support the quiet passivity of these Chinese lyrics. The mood of calm acceptance in such work lays a gentle hand on the merely frenetic. Even the most specific references do not compromise the universal quality of these poems. Note how the following lines transcend their local setting: At the little dock by the willow trees people are embarking on journeys  I know that the boatman will bring you safe to your destination. When the fresh colors of Spring return I will think of you, Whether you travel South or North, my thoughts will follow you. This little poem escapes the stultifying lassitude which characterizes much Oriental poetry. Consider the following poem which suggests that if we set too long a perspective, all individual effort seems futile: There are many new houses in Nanshu; Old trees are gone but the willows remain. One does not know who of the coming generation will visit here. No matter in the same way did the last generation conjecture. 797 October 1967 If the unending cycle of life and death is given such emphasis here that the reflections of a single person seem of little moment, a final poem by Wang Wei catches just the right combination of graceful adaptation to the inevitable: Daily man grows old without the hope of youth's return, Though Springtime yearly fades to reappear again. Therefore drink with tranquil hearts, And grieve not for the falling petals of Spring flowers. For Discussion Is the kind of life we glimpse in the poetry of Wang Wei possible today? MEDITATIONS OF MARCUS AURELIUS If the stoicism of Marcus Aurelius is not quite so passive (at least in practice) as the Taoist position of Wang Wei, yet there is more than a superficial resemblance between these philosophies. Both stress a world order which is set. Man must find his place in such an order, and any attempt to make a place rather than find it can only result in frustration and unhappiness. The following excerpt from Book III] of the Meditations is typical: III, 16. If many qualities are held in common, there remains that which is peculiar to the good man. His distinction lies in being pleased and content with what happens, and with the thread that is spun for him. And if all men refuse to believe that he lives a simple, modest, and contented life, he is neither angry with any of them, nor does he deviate from the way which leads to the end of life, to which a man ought to come pure, tranquil, ready to depart, and perfectly reconciled to his fate. 798 CRAFT SUPPLIES NOW TWO STORES TO SERVE YOU BETTER 1. ZIM'S Convenient Uptown Store 240 East 2nd South 2. ZIM'S Freeway Warehouse Near 45th South and Interstate 15 Send 25c for catalog and also receive our booklet, "Twentyfive Inexpensive Handcraft Projects." DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED ZIMS 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Dept. R. M. HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR October 14-29? ROSE PARADE TOURS Via San Diego Via San Francisco December 26 through January 2 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 As attractive as this sounds, the Roman Stoic too often became so preoccupied with self-discipline that he lost touch with humanity, divesting himself of responsibility toward his fellow men. Patience and forbearance may be lonely states, but they are not meaningfully achieved by isolation from the world. For Discussion What are the special difficulties of using a Stoic philosophy to direct a nation? What is least attractive about the Meditations of Marcus Aurelius? A NOISELESS, PATIENT SPIDER The final selection for this month, is Walt Whitman's 'A Noiseless, Patient Spider," one of his most successful efforts: A noiseless, patient spider, IT mark'd where, on a little promontory, it stood, isolated; Mark'd how, to explore the vacant, vast surrounding, It launch'd forth filament, filament, filament, out of itself; Ever unreeling them ever tirelessly speeding them. Lesson Department And you, O my soul, where you stand, Surrounded, surrounded, in measureless oceans of space, Ceaselessly musing, venturing, throw- ~ing, seeking the spheres, to connect them; Till the bridge you will need, be form'd  till the ductile anchor hold; Till the gossamer thread you fling, catch somewhere, O my soul. In this lovely poem all human and divine aspirations are effectively caught. We must reach outside ourselves for both temporal and spiritual satisfaction. Without fanfare but in untiring persistence, we must attempt to establish the realities of our life. The final line carries just the right tone. It is not if "the gossamer thread you fling catch somewhere," but "'till."' Patience is finally rewarded. For Discussion Why is a spider spinning a good image for man's attempt to find reality? After checking its dictionary meaning, why is "ductile" such a good choice in the next-to-last line in "A Noiseless, Patient Spider'? - ANCHORAGE AT HOME Bertha A. Kleinman What have | done to make my day complete, When comes the night to close my tired eyes? Who the appraiser of my balance sheet, Who to indite to seal and notarize? What have | said of banter or of praise That someone shall be glad | came his way? What song of mine has lilted through the haze Of cringing doubt to shatter its dismay? What must | be for those who look to me To set my sails whatever be the tide, Not flotsom drifting on a troubled sea, But pulling shoreward where the waves subside? Not mine a convoy churning through the foam, But just a bark with anchorage at home. > 799 800 97 Mrs. Jane Lang Milford, Utah 96 Mrs. Malinda Cook Briggs Layton, Utah Mrs. Amelia Heppler Hansen Richfield, Utah Miss Florence Pearl Young Salt Lake City, Utah 99 Mrs. Arabella Smart Parkinson Daines Logan, Utah 93 Miss Florence Brown Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Charlotte Ann Haight Esplin Cedar City, Utah Miss Mary Jane Thackeray Salt Lake City, Utah 92 Mrs. Rosena Blickenstorfer Gubler Blake St. George, Utah Mrs. Nancy Knipe Bowlin Loveland, Colorado Mrs. Martha: Amanda Barron Norton Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nellie C. Ross Robinson Provo, Utah Mrs. Mary Ellen Burns Taylor Magna, Utah Mrs. Martha Coffin Torgeson Ogden, Utah 91 Miss Addeliza Cowley St. George, Utah Mrs. Ellen Percy Gladwell Roy, Utah Mrs. Mary G. McNeill Bluewater, New Mexico Mrs. Hilda Kjelberg Olsen Portland, Oregon 90 Mrs. Mabel Avery Manchester, New Hampshire Mrs. Bertha Emanuelsen Bergsjo Logan, Utah Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Story Berry Ogden, Utah Mrs. Sarah Baker Hil! Fayette, Utah Mrs. Anna Marie Johnson Howell Provo, Utah Mrs. Zina Goulding Johnson Cannonville, Utah Mrs. Etta Langstaff Miller Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Jennie Ackerman Sudweeks Springville, Utah DESERET BOOK COMPANY, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or, 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Tt Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVO.. OGDEN 777 SO MAIN ST.. ORANGE, CALIFORNIA hone,. ' 4 > Send me copies of MAN MAY KNOW FOR HIMSELF. Send me copies of OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3 Send me Social Relations Teaching Aids Packets Enclosed is a check/money order for the full amount of purchase, including 32% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake City, or 5% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. Or, charge my established account [] Total $ SEND FOR DETAILS OF A DESERET BOOK CHARGE ACCOUNT (Check here) CT Oct. R. S. 67 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah i ny rt fi mt Pa   O O a   d "4 1 v) At 1 mh. Het NB, ' 4 

