[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 64 | Lesson | Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Exemplifies Thrift Virginia | F. Cutler]
WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting ) Discussion 7 — The Latter-day Saint Home Exemplifies Thrift Dr. Virginia F'. Cutler For Second Meeting, April 1963 Objective: To show that a family can know the feeling of security through work and the wise use of resources. HE main ideas of this discussion are given through the use of a flip chart.* The four messages for the chart follow: *A flip chart has messages written and illustrated on large sheets of white wrapping paper or cardboard and fastened together on a stick and hung on an easel. As one message is given, the sheet is flipped over for the next. 64 1. Keep out of the deficit spending trap. Plan your budget on your terms. 2. Avoid revolving credit. Consider costs of using other people's moncy. 3. Watch that garbage can. Use resources wisely.. Add many dollars to your income through thnfty home management. The Family Values Test in the first discussion started out with checking the family value of security. Keeping out of debt, wise use of resources, a nest egg for a rainy day, and a high credit and character rating are listed as essential for realizing this value. The trap of deficit spending is keeping a great many families from knowing the meaning of security under these terms. Deficit spenders don't have to keep a budget; their money is spent automatically through unvarying monthly payments. Through motivation — research, the business world has learned ways to help the family get rid of the rest of the paycheck in a similar withholding pattern. We are urged to take two vacations a year, to buy a second car, to sign for a package mortgage on all the known gadgets. Pay after you get is the mode, and the paycheck is spent before it is earned. The optimism of some newly married couples is astounding. They assume there will be a continually expanding economy and that future prosperity will retroactively pay for today, and there is no sense in selfdenial. If a dealer reports that financing can be arranged through a local bank, they relax their guard completely and debt starts on a path which often becomes the perpetual family street. Ing operates largely to lull people to insensitivity and more debt. Thrift, initiative, challenge, and struggle are words that will gradualDeficit spendLESSON DEPARTMENT ly become obsolete if this trend continues. Revolving credit is deficit spending carried to its ultimate conclusion. It is allowed by retailers to people who do not rate a charge account. A family might be given a $200 credit limit which must be paid off in regular installments with al tol% percent monthly interest charge on the unpaid balance. Once the family gets into this trap, they seldom get out, for they always like to be bought up to the limit. The family is paying annually a twelve to eighteen per cent interest charge for this convenience. Some homemakers throw money out of the back door by way of the garbage can faster than it comes in the front door. 'Through careful management, use of leftovers, and perhaps producing some food, it would be possible to save money that could help the family budget. A Ph. D. Study was made by Marie Geraldine Gage at Cornell University in 1960. She found that unpaid-for services that replace bought goods and hired help can add many dollars to the family's real income. How do _ you _ replace bought goods for services? The one big answer is work — with everyone in the family contributing his share. If you don't have money to buy: A washing machine, you use a plunger, or a washboard and elbow grease; T-bone steaks, you use cheaper sources of protein and more time and effort; Tickets to the World Fair, make your own fair in the back yard; A new dress, make something new from something old; New cupboards for the kitchen, use some packing boxes, a saw, a hammer and nails. 


 The list could be endless, but to summarize: The homemaker who knows the meaning of thrift, who knows how to budget money and keep expenditures within the income, and who knows how to save here and save there, can add many dollars to the family's resources, and, at the same time, she can teach her family how to keep out of the deficit-spending trap. The Latter-day Saint family believes in the old-fashioned virtue of thrift, in making a budget on their own terms, planning the use of resources, keeping out of debt, except for such major expenditures as a home or education, and, in having a nest egg for a rainy day. They are more interested in giving than in getting; they pay their tithes and offerings before thinking of their own material wants. They give their services to the Church and community and send their children to schools and on missions. Through the years, they find themselves on prosperity street, instead of on mortgage row. Questions for Discussion 1. Give concrete examples of ways in which homemakers have been able to add dollars to the family income through care of clothing, the home, and its furnishings. 2. How can we get some production back into the home, not only for saving money, but for personal development? For example: home food production and preservation, clothing construction, and furniture making. Attention Work Meeting Discussion Leaders NOTE ON ERROR IN DISCUSSION 5 (for February 1963) —- The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (part 1), published in November 1962 issue, page 854. Correct measurements for making furniture polish: %, turpentine.