[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 2 | General Feature | From Near and Far]
[From Near and Far]

From Near and Far

The article "A Permanent Home," by Norma Dee Ryan (October 1962) expressed my feelings at the time. The flowers I worked on all spring were in bloom and the yard green and nice. Now, in our new home, and it is home already, we have planted two more trees that we will never see grow, and started watering the dead grass. The grass is starting to turn green, but we will not be here long, for my husband, too, is military, and we soon expect an overseas order. The Magazine will follow us there, and the Church will soon make it "home."
—Mrs. Colleen A. Bentley
Edgemont, California

When my Magazine arrives I have to stop whatever I am doing and glance quickly through its pages to satisfy myself with reading the thoughts of other saints and then carry on the rest of the day with a song in my heart, anticipating the pleasure I shall have later when the day is done and I can relax with my favorite Magazine, thankful for the pleasure and benefits I receive.
—Mrs. D. L. Ring
Leederville, Perthshire
Scotland

I always read the "From Near and Far" page because I enjoy the things others think and say about our Magazine. I enjoy every issue. Sometimes I start right at the beginning and read everything except the continued story, which I save until last of the month, so that I won't have to wait so long to see what happens next. Sometimes when I am blue, I read something that lifts my heart. Sometimes I find wonderful things to help me with my family of seven children. Sometimes when a problem rests heavily upon me, I find the perfect answer in the Magazine. No matter what the case, the answer seems to come from the Magazine.
—Donna Abegelen
St. Anthony, Idaho

I truly enjoy reading The Relief Society Magazine. It is a warm, spiritual visit from home. Two of our young missionaries out here came to see me one day and informed me that they had marked some articles in my Magazine that they wanted me to read. Upon opening the Magazine, I discovered that they had marked all the "articles" in the recipe section — candy, cookies, pie . . . etc. I find that the recipes work just as well here as they did in Switzerland, France, or back in our own country. The elders in the mission here are many of them subscribers to the Magazine, and they tell me that they enjoy it very much.
—Lucilla B. Hanson
Brussels, Belgium

I especially enjoyed the editorial "In the Family There Is Strength" (by Vesta P. Crawford) in the August issue of the Magazine. I felt the message so keenly, as we had just had a wonderful visit with my daughter and son-in-law and their six children from Washington, D. C.
—Myrene Rich Brewer
Ogden, Utah

During the summer months I was so busy I only took time to scan through my Magazine. Suddenly I found myself in the hospital with a ruptured appendix. I had plenty of time to read all the back issues. For days the Magazine was the only reading material I could handle, because it was small and light. What an uplift I received from its pages, with such a variety of literature and beautiful pictures. Many times I read to the woman who shared the room with me. I hope I was able to spread the gospel to her through this medium.
—Marjorie S. Patterson
President
Santa Ana Stake Relief Society
Santa Ana, California

2
