[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 63 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Messages — "It Is Not Meet That I Should Command In All Things" Christine | H. Robinson]
62 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 47 — (D & C 58:26). Christine H. Robinson or First Week, April 1963 "It Is Not Meet That I Should Command in All Things" bjective: To emphasize the fact that it is through the exercise of free agency that we evelop initiative and self-reliance. REE agency is a fundamental part of the gospel; in fact a war as fought in heaven over it. Our Father in heaven counsels s to pattern our lives on night nnciples. He has given us laws d commandments as _ guides, hich, if followed, will assure us ppiness in this life and joy in the orld to come. Nevertheless, he allows us to exercise our own judgpent and free agency in the applicaion of these principles and in following these commandments. Only in this way can we learn, grow, and progress. One purpose of free agency is to enable us to develop sufficient initiative that we will not need to be commanded in all things. In fact, when the Prophet Joseph Smith was asked how he governed his people he replied, "I teach them correct principles, and they govern themselves." This wise principle of living was also emphasized by the Savior in his parable of the unprofitable servants. In this parable Jesus asked, "Doth he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him?" 'The Savior responded in the negative to his own inquiry and then added: "So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants: we have done that which was our duty to do" (Luke 17:10). Not only should we follow the Lord's specific commandments, but to be profitable servants, we should go the extra mile and use initiative and free agency in doing good and in living true Christian lives. One reason why our Father in heaven encourages us to exercise our free will and judgment is so that we can develop confidence and selfreliance. There is an old story which states that some of the ancient alchemists believed that if they could find one special element they could change some of the common baser metals into pure gold; but this rare element always eluded them. A similar rare element of character, however, need not be so elusive. This important character element ls self-reliance in combination with 


 humility. In order to build successful lives we must have confidence and self-reliance in our own Godgiven talents and abilities. Plato said, "Take charge of your lives, you can do with them what you will." In his wisdom he knew that those who were self-reliant sought constantly to discover and overcome their own shortcomings which kept them from accomplishing the things they were capable of doing. Someone has wisely said, "No man has made a great success of life or a fit preparation for immortality by doing merely his duty," and The Doctrine and Covenants states, ". For he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward" (D & C 58:26). President Henry D. Moyle expressed this thought beautifully when he said, "We ourselves must act. We must initiate our own search for truth of our own free will. Once we do, the Lord magnifies us, fills our souls with his holy spirit " (CR, October 1959, page ). Ret us follow the admonition of the Lord and do many things of our own free will, "and bring to pass much righteousness," for the Lord has said, "For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward" (D & C 58:27-28).