[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 16 | Special Feature | Support the March of Dimes | George P Voss]
Support the March of Dimes George P. Voss Vice-President for Public Relations, the National Foundation OUR Contribution to The National Foundation — March of Dimes supports: Scientific Research devoted to the protection of human life through study of the causes and means of preventing disease. Soon to join this quest will be world-eminent scientists who will work together at The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, now under construction in San Diego, California. Medical Care for the local community through a Nation-wide network of treatment and study centers — more than fifty are in operation — for victims of birth defects, arthritis, and polio. Public and Professional Education to increase general awareness and understanding of the problems of chronic crippling diseases; to develop competent hands and minds for research and for skilled care of the disabled, and to make available the most advanced knowledge concerning effective care and treatment. Until these problems are solved, your March of Dimes must devote millions of dollars each year to saving lives and alleviating suffering — helping patients afflicted with birth defects, arthritis and polio. Support the March of Dimes! 16 Celestia J. Taylor Appointed to the General Board Alice L. Wilkinson Member, General Board of Relief Society ELESTIA Johnson 'Taylor, C appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, November 7, 1962, brings a rich background of experience and talent and a deep love of the gospel to her new calling. Born in Alpine and reared in Provo, Utah, she received most of her training at Brigham Young University, where she received her Bachelor of Arts and Master's degrees in English. At the time of her appointment she was an instructor of English at that institution. Her husband is Lynn D. Taylor, Provo merchant and special instructor of interior decorating at Brigham Young University. They are the parents of two sons and_ three daughters. John Arthur is married to Katherine Pearson and is a member of the stake presidency in Cincinnati, Ohio. Janice, married to Monte DeGraw, has been a ward Relief Society president. Lynn Ann, married to H. Bryan Richards, is an officer in the MIA. Katherine, married to Brent Brockbank, is a teacher in MIA and is a member of the Sunday School Stake Board in San Francisco. Terry, at home, is a recent recipient of the "Duty to God" award. Sister Taylor was an outstanding vocal student of Sister Florence J. Madsen. For nine years she served as a ward chorister and later as a Sunday School chorister.