[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 49 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities | Hulda Parker]
See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Los Angeles Stake (California) Presents "Messengers of Mercy" July 22, 1962 Front row, left to right: Naomi Dearden, chorister; Gladys Rich, composer of "Messengers of Mercy"; Donna Davis, accompanist. Second row, left to right: Camilla Beck, soprano soloist; Shirley Goodman; Dora Truman; FE] Geva Berryessa; Laura McCarty; Enid Jacobsen, alto soloist. Third row, left to mght: Margret Riechmuth; Mary Cortiz; Constance Feleberg; Marguerite Eaton; Madcline Calloway; Emily Eborn. Fourth row, left to right: Erika Mueller; LaVern Carter; Phyllis Brewerton; Susan Schumann; Clara Lampkin; Lettie Goddard; Margucrite Simmons; Fern Teasdale; Kate Domack. Marian Pinkston, President, Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, reports: 'The cantata "Messengers of Mercy' was composed in 1942 to commemorate the Relief Society Centennial. Miss Rich is well known for her opercttas, children's songs, and cantatas. The Singing Mothers presented this cantata in sacrament service in honor of Utah Pioncer Day, July 22, 1962." 49 Scottish Mission Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for Organization of Glasgow Stake, Avgust 26, 1962 Seated in the centet, Nada R. Brockbank, President, Scottish Mission Relief Society; at right, conductor Catherine C. Richardson; at left, accompanist Anna Harvey. Sister Brockbank reports: "When the North British Mission was formed in May 1960, there were fifty Singing Mothers 19 the Scottish District Relief Society chorus. With the help, and under the direction of Catherine Richardson, We now have ovéet Seousisvers lm Out chorus. Some of them were unable to be in attendance when this icture was taken. "Twenty of our Scottish sisteTs and two of out Irish sisters wet blessed to participate in the International Singing Mothers Chorus in March 1961. The Scottish-Irish Mission was formed in March 1963, with Nada R. Brockbank as President of Relief Society and Jane Morrow as Second Counselor. We have made very rapid growth the past eighteen months, with fifty-six Relief Societies 0 Scotland and Ireland. The Irish Mission was formed in July 1962, taking ten of our Relief TO PRESIDENT McKAY We thank you for your noble life, As we gather here today With heartfelt pleasuts we show out love In a very special wa) We thank you for the high ideal, And the good that still endures; Each life ls richer, puret now, Because It'S uence _— Nada R. Brockbank 50 NOTES FROM THE FIELD South Los Angeles Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music For Four Stake Events Seated in the front row: fourth from the left, Second Counselor Hedi Blumel; at the extreme right, Secretary-Treasurer Cula Magnusson; seated center front, pianist Lillian Carsey, and Singing Mothers chorister Ruth Haycock (in dark dresses). President Alta Davis and First Counselor Dorotha Miller were both called out of town at the time the picture was taken. These Singing Mothers presented music for four occasions: Stake Visiting Teacher Convention, February 2, 1962; Stake Relief Society Anniversary Program, March 23, 1962; Stake Quarterly Conference, April 15, 1962; Relief Society Convention, June 2, 1962. Duchesne Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention May 1962 Front row, seated, left to right: Elva Mayhew, visiting teacher message leader; Arwella Moon, Second Counselor; Mina Bark, work meeting leader; Anona Miles, organist; Ora Holgate, President; Jennette Turnbow, theology class leader; Ardath Johansen, Magazine representative; Lois Goodrich, First Counselor; Rita Hansen, chorister; Viola Bleazard, Secretary-Treasurer; Ruth Dastrup; Sara White, literature class leader; Mildred Smith, social science class leader. Sister Holgate reports that the presentation "A Light Shining" was shown and each sister was presented with an award in recognition of devoted service as a Relief Society visiting teacher. 51 NOTES FROM THE FIELD San Luis Stake (Colorado) Relief Society Presents Anniversary Celebration June 5, 1962 Left to right: Gatha Vance, social science class leader; Leola Reynolds, visiting teacher message leader; Voris Cornum, work meeting leader; Ruth Bagwell, First Counselor; Thelma R. Crowther, President; Aileen Ealey, Second Counselor; Oneita Reed, literature class leader; Marvelle Shawcroft, theology class leader. Absent when the picture was taken were Olive Reed, Secretary-Treasurer; Marilyn Harmsen, organist; Esther Smythe, chorister; Hazel Haynie, Magazine representative. Sister Crowther reports: "The stake board of the San Luis Stake Relief Society would like to share with you a very pleasant spiritual as well as social experience we have had in our stake. Homage was paid to the early-day pioneers on Tuesday, June 5, 1962, at a very lovely Relief Society anniversary party at the stake house in La Jara, it being seventy-eight years since the organization of Relief Society here in the San Luis Stake. Many women from the six wards were in attendance and participated in the program which was centered around the pioneer theme and was carried out in song and costume. An original play written by Lena Mae Hansen of the Sanford Ward and entitled 'Relief Society Treasure Chest,' was presented. Esther Smythe, stake chorister, composed words for two songs which fit in nicely with the play. The refreshment table was most attractive with a beautifully decorated Relief Society birthday cake done also in the pioneer motif. On both ends of the table were miniature covered wagons. 'Tiny wagon wheels decorated individual pieces of cake, with a larger one set in ice to float in the punch bowl. We feel that this event was very successful, because we had many in attendance who are not members of Relief Society and some who are not members of the Church. Through this social we feel that we are helping the fellowshipping program and perhaps we are taking the first steps toward interesting more sisters in the grand work of Relief Society." Reno Stake (Nevada) Relief Society Work Festival March 1962 Left to right: Lucile Clark, First Counselor; Lura Allen, chorister; Blanche Richards, Second Counselor; Verona Schenk, visiting teacher message leader; Elaine Harris, social science class leader; Betty Morris, organist; Louise L. Bell, President. Absent when the picture was taken were Mabel Ford, Secretary; Claire Richards, theology class leader; Mary Hurst, literature class leader; Jean Lattin, work meeting leader. Sister Bell reports that handmade articles made by the members in the work meeting and in their homes were on display. "They included quilts, handicraft work, remodeled and new clothing, art work, ceramics, sewed articles, embroidered, crocheted, and knitted articles. Demonstrations on cake decorating were given by a professional cake decorator and baker, who is branch president of South Tahoe, one of the participating branches. The cake was very beautiful and was decorated with the seal of Relief Society. It was served with punch in the afternoon. Lunch was sold at noon and all the proceeds were kept by the participating wards and branches: Carson City, Fallon, Fernley, Hawthorne, Lovelock, Mt. Rose, Mt. Rose Second, South Tahoe, and Yerington. The festival was advertised throughout the stake, and invitations were issued to nonmembers, as well as to active and nonactive members. Many nonmembers attended, and we feel that it was a fine way to show what the Relief Society work department has to offer. Several hundred people attended, including many Priesthood members. Everyone participating was very enthusiastic, and we are looking forward to making the 'Work Festival' an annual affair. It was under the direction of Work Director Counselor Blanche Richards and work meeting leader Jean Lattin." 


 Tampa Stake (Florida) Relief Society Convention, May 23, 1962 Seated at the table, left to right: President Clifton B. Edwards, Second Counselor, Tampa Stake; Edith Backman, member, General Board of Relief Society; Inez Edwards, President, Tampa Stake Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; President Edwin H. White; (continuing around the table from the lower right): Rose Benson, organist; Consuela Jennings, First Counselor; Wilma Hamilton, theology class leader; Estelle Gause; Bishop Walter Benson; Winifred Couch, visiting teacher message leader; Grace C. Fernando, Second Counselor; Genevieve Opp, work meeting leader; Margene Fowles, Secretary-Treasurer; Aretta Booth, Magazine representative; Evelyn Andrews, chorister; Lola Murdock, literature class leader. Sister Edwards reports that this picture was taken at a luncheon given for the visiting teachers and stake board members. "Our stake was pleased to have President Spafford and Sister Backman as our visitors for the convention. 'They gave so much inspiration and help that I feel sure we will go forward this next year. In the thirtyfive years that the Relief Society has been organized here in Tampa, this is the first time that the President of Relief Society has visited here.' Taber Stake (Canada) First Relief Society Board Front row, seated, left to nght: Iola H. Layton, Second Counselor; Ida S. Wood, President; Hazel H. Price, First Counselor; Mildred H. Evanson, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, standing, left to right: Olive H. Johnson, literature class leader; Erma P. Neilson, theology class leader; Delores F. Sommerfeltd, chorister; Clorice M. Harding, social science class leader; Lula P. Gibb, organist; Maude T. Harris, visiting teacher message leader; Ermon L. Hill, work meeting leader; Emma B. Harris, Magazine representative. Taber Stake was organized in September 1960. Swiss Mission, Servicemen's Branch Relief Society, Naples, Italy Front row, left to right: Mary Creager; Doris Caulder, President; Carma Horne. Back row, left to right: Sandra Banks; Wanda Cotter; Donna Peterson; Lucille Crockett. Ramona Gale. Is missing from the picture. Jennie W. Erekson, President, Swiss Mission Relief Society, sends the following report from Doris Caulder: "On the first Tuesday of October 1960, the Naples, Italy, group of Relief Society sisters held their first meeting at the home of Lucille Crockett, with six sisters present. These sisters, so far from home, were thankful for the opportunity to meet together. Their willingness to serve and carry on has helped each to become better acquainted and strengthen the bond of true spiritual sisterhood.. "It was decided that the meetings would be held in the homes of the sisters, the hostess presiding. The sisters took turns in presenting the lessons as outlined in The Relief Society Magazine, and all looked forward to the delicious luncheons and exchange of recipes on work meeting days. Relief Society activities have been educational and varied. Pajama bags and toys were made and presented to each child by Santa at the Christmas party held in the home of Sister Cotter. The Relief Society birthday was celebrated by a shopping trip through the curious, winding streets to out-of-the-way factories and city shops. The Singing Mothers have enjoyed presenting special numbers for sacrament meetings and conferences, and there have been many opportunities to teach the gospel to nonmembers, both Italian and American, who have attended the meetings. A permanent organization is now functioning with a membership of nine."