[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 6 | Poem | A Song of Wheels | Margery S. Stewart]
A Song of Wheels Margery S. Stewart The wagon wheels are high and white, They make a scarring in the snow, The way that wheels do, coming hard Behind the oxen, dark and slow. The wind, a winter Indian, stalks Past tattered canvas, tattered shawl. Crouched on the ridges, broods the night, Like taloned birds, the shadows fall. Then from the farthest wagon back, A grizzled man begins to sing, The song is like him, strong and deep, The music makes a rising ring, A spreading splendor in the dark, To which the others bend their brands. Someone else against the stark Oppression sings out sure and bold. Others... And others... Here and here Until the notes are all held high, A fire of music in the night. Forgotten spectres turn and fly, Once more the wagons circle and stand. The dark shrinks back to the edge of the land. Modesty Protects Virtue Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered in the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1962] NDEED it is a great privilege and an honor to be in your presence here this morning, my sisters. I am always humble when in the presence of the wonderful women of this Church. I am convinced that the sisters of the Latterday Saints are truly angelic in many, many ways. I feel confident that you are the stalwarts that lend so much strength to the entire Church through your marvelous devotion, so it is indeed a great honor and a privilege to be in your presence. During the first months following the organization of the Relief Society in 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith addressed the sisters a number of times. He endeavored to set the standard and show the way for this marvelous organization. One of his principal themes was that the sisters should uphold morality and right and promote virtue among members of the Church. Brigham Young also stressed the importance of the sisters upholding high standards, and, at one time, he said, "These Relief Societies are for the improvement of our manners, our dress, our habits, and our methods of living." The Lord spoke at various times pertaining to the virtues which he expects the Latter-day Saints to preserve. At one time he said, '"Practise virtue and holiness before me" (D & C 38:24). Still later he warned, "... Ye must practise virtue and holiness before me continually" (D & C 46:33). And while the Prophet was in Liberty Jail, the Lord spoke to him and said, "... Let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God (D & C 12:45). Inasmuch as he used the expression, "Practise virtue and holiness before me continually," I feel that the Lord not only spoke of virtue in the sense of chastity, but also in a broader sense, even as we speak of the different virtues represented in our Latter-day Saint standards. Since the Lord seemed to include a general connotation of the word virtue in his revelations, I went to the dictionary to see what it had to say on this subject. Among other things, it gave as definitions, courage, strength, valor, efficacy, excellence, merit, rectitude, purity, and chastity. I was particularly interested for the moment in the word valor which was given as a synonym and, as a result, refreshed my mind on the dictionary definition of that word. Valor was defined as strength of mind which enables one to encounter danger firmly. It stands for gallantry, heroism, personal bravery, and courage. Then I began to ask myself, what are the virtues the Lord had in mind when he urged the saints to "let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly " and "...