[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 37 | Fiction | Kit Linford | ]
Armstrong 36 CHAPTER 1 Kit Linford itself to the street outside. It was old, dignified, well used. Irene Spencer paused just inside the carved oak door and glanced about her. She stood in an entrance foyer that was larger than many rooms she had seen. Beyond it lay the dark abyss of a room. She shivered a little, and pulled her sweater closer about her. "It's awfully gloomy in here, Dick," she said. His voice came from the depths of darkness. "I know. Wait until I open the drapes." The drag of heavy draperies across a thick carpet made a soft, swishing sound, and raised a dust that filled the close air. Feeble streams of light invaded the room, but the gentle spring sunshine was filtered by dusty glass and wide winA T first glance the house related dow frames until it did little more than break the shadows into shapeless, sheet-covered mounds. Dick moved down to the other end of the long room, pulling sheets off furniture as he walked. Irene stood alone in the louvered archway that separated the foyer and the parlor and surveyed the expanse of room before her. The drapes sagged with dust, and were a dark wine color. The carpeting was just a dirty shade lighter. The wood I paneling that dominated the walls was dark walnut or mahogany. The gaping mouth of an uncovered fireplace resembled a small black cavern. Invading winds had blown loose soot back down the chimney and laid it wantonly on the rug and tile hearth. Those tiles that had not been given a peppery appearance by a layer of soot revealed xii JANUARY 1963 themselves to be a rusty cocoa color, a hue that nearly lost itself in the black soot, red carpeting, and brown wood. The room was musty, heavy with dust, close with disuse. "Can't you open a window? The air in here is so stale." She pushed her pale gilt hair off her forehead, wondering if the dust had settled on it. "Wait until you see the rest of it,' Dick enthused. "It doesn't look like much now, but it's a grand old house." "It must be ancient." "Fifty-five... Maybe sixty years old. They don't build houses like this anymore." "Tm sure they don't," she said flatly. Her sarcasm was lost on Dick, who had gone on into the next room. She became conscious of the cold that permeated the room. The thick walls of the house had _ been thoroughly chilled all winter, and the gentle spring sunshine hadn't yet become warm enough to penetrate them. She considered returning to the car for a coat, but thought better of it when Dick called out to her. "Come on, honey. Dining room." Wispy puffs of dust played about her feet as she crossed the length of the room to catch up with him. He had gone through another archway, and now stood beside the largest dining table Irene had ever seen. It appeared that tall garden urns had been painted gold and then drafted into use as legs to support the tremendous thick slab of This is the 38 polished wood. Dick wiped the dust off the table with one of the sheets he still carried. THE ugly carpet had followed her. Identical drapes hung in folds that were gray with dust. Massive furniture stood like shrouded ghosts in gritty sheets. A chandelier hung in suspended grandeur over all, but even its crystal prisms failed to catch or reflect light, because a heavy cloud of grime covered them. Dick dropped the sheets into a heap at one end of the table. "My mother used to entertain in here," he said. "Dozens of people. This room holds lots of memories." He looked about with satisfaction. Irene didn't speak as she found the grimy pull cords and drew back the drapes. After nearly choking on resultant clouds of dust, she saw that the windows here were in the same condition as the others, too smoky to admit much light. "I'm cold," she spoke petulantly. "It is clammy in here," he agreed. "No one has lived here since my mother died. 'That's when Granddad moved out, taking me and Davy with him. It was too big and lonely, without her. We'll all be able to come back here to live, now. I know that's what Granddad would like, and it's what I want, too." Irene stiffened, refusing to recall her enthusiasm when Dick had first mentioned such an arrangement — months before their marriage. An old man and a handicapped boy, she thought. In this mausoleum of a house! Before she could voice any objections, Dick reached up and pulled a sheet off a portrait that hung on the wall. "That's my mother," he said. The painted face was totally unlike what Irene might have expected. She must have been a small woman, and much younger than one would have thought. A tender smile played on the sensitive mouth, and wide-spaced eyes looked down into Irene's own. "She was pretty wonderful," Dick said. "Remember I told you what a hard time she had of it? Always wanted a big family, and had to settle for just the two of us, Davy and me. There're twenty years between us, too. Dad died a month or so before Davy was born. He had been sick for years. Davy wasn't healthy either. Mother nursed him through some bad times. She wasn't very strong, and it finally wore her down. She died when Davy was three." "And you went to South Africa." "Somebody had to recoup the family fortunes. Dad's prolonged illness and then Davy's on top of it, bled us pretty dry. All we managed to hang onto was this house, after having been one of the leading families in Spencerside. Mother managed to keep me in school, although [Il probably never know what sacrifices it entailed for her and Granddad. When I was fresh out of school the Government offered me the position in Africa. I needed the kind of money they offered." He grinned at her. "At the time it seemed like the end of the world. Now I'm glad I went. You were there." "What happened to Davy?"