[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 0 | Fiction | Keep My Own — Chapter 1 | ]
KEEP MY OWN asked. 'Was it those illnesses during his babyhood that caused him to be mute?" ICK had always been reticent about discussing Davy's handicap. He hesitated before he replied. "No. It wasn't that. He had learned to talk as well as any threeyear-old when Mother died. It's hard to explain what we all went through then, but Davy most of all. We knew what had happened. We could accept it. He was too little. He couldn't understand. To him, she had just deserted him. When we were getting ready to go to the funeral... He stayed home with Aunt Ella... He somehow got the idea that we were going to get her and bring her home. When we came back without her, he started to cry. Cried for hours. We thought everything would be all nght then. Only it didn't work out that way. It wasn't long before we realized he had stopped speaking. He hasn't uttered a word, since." Her heart twisted with pity. "How terrible for you," she whispered. "Terrible for all of us, but mostly for Davy." A nerve was jerking spasmodically at Dick's temple. Irene touched it tenderly, seeking to soothe it away. "Ym sorry. I didn't completely understand. You never wanted to talk about it." "No one really understands," he said as he took her hand. "How can any adult comprehend the disillusionment and pain and sorrow of a three-year-old child?" He shook his head to drive the memories I 


 away. "The kitchen's in here. Come on." An ornately decorated black stove stood in one corner of the kitchen like a reigning goblin. Its tall black chimney stretched into the shadowy caves of the ceiling far above. 'Iwo dirty windows made little more than narrow slits in black-streaked, dark green walls. Expanses of green cupboards reached an almost unbelievable height. A low old sink stood on carved legs in another corner, beyond a width of green counter top. The floor was a mass of dirty little tiles. Irene scraped some of the accumulated soil off them with the tip of her shoe. They were dark green, too. "We'll have to do some fixing up in here," Dick said lamely. "I had forgotten how out-of-date things "That's a prime understatement," she said bitterly, her tenderness of a moment ago forgotten. She felt him withdrawing from her. Oh, Dick, forgive me. Married only seven months and already it appears I'm developing into a shrew! I don't want to do that. Just give me a little time. Time to adjust to leaving my home, this impossible house Davy. His voice was tired. "I'm sorry you're disappointed. Maybe I painted a rosier picture than I intended. This house is my home. I hoped you could see the gracious living it offers, under the dust and neglect of these past few years." "You admitted yourself it's too out-of-date. I am anxious to make a home for you, but there are limitations to what I can do " How 40 can I tell you I'm frightened at the prospect of living here with your grandfather and your brother? I don't know anything about handicapped children. I'm afraid to even attempt to rear Davy. What if I failed in some way? Oh, Dick, I knew all these things before we were married, and I accepted them all without question. I was so in love! Can anyone, particularly a girl in love, visualize such things? I didn't see a day past that beautiful ceremony in the London temple and the honeymoon that followed. Now the magnitude of it all frightens me. I am such a coward. This house and everything that goes with it are just overwhelming! \ E can't live in it as it ls now," he said quietly, running a thin hand through his prematurely silver-touched hair. "I can see that. I had hoped to set up my studio in the solarium... Sort of an office... Well, modern plumbing and appliances will make all the difference in the world." "Didn't you hear one word I said?" "T heard you, but we have to be practical. If it won't be too much of a hardship on you, I want to try to live here. I would like to rear our baby here, where I was reared. You have judged the house too quickly, anyway. You haven't seen enough of it. Just starting out in business as I am, I have to think of expenses. It would help a lot to have a place here where I. Could work until I'm established. The money I earned in South Africa won't last forever. It's time we got down to the business of living nor- mal lives, Irene. We've been married seven months. That's a pretty long honeymoon. Besides, you knew about this house... And everything else... A year ago." She couldn't deny that. He hadn't hidden anything from her. 'They had discussed it many times. She had always agreed before. It was hard to veto those prior arrangements now. He left her while he went to explore the rest of the house. Irene stood shivering alone in the kitchen, thinking of the years that Dick's family had lived here. Dick's father, Dick, and Davy had all been born in the same room. Dick's parents had both died here. It was no wonder Dick revered the house. The rooms echoed with reverberations from the past that were foreign to Irene. 'The gloom seemed to close in about her, although it couldn't have been much past the noon hour. 'The sun was high outside. She longed for that sunlight as the eerie quiet enveloped her. She drew her breath in deeply through her mouth, and tasted staleness, dead air, dust. She waited for Dick in the deathlike silence of the old mansion that had waited five years for him to come back and resurrect it. Few short hours ago she had felt like the bride she was, then she had stepped across the threshold of this hideous old house. Everything had changed at that moment. Her entire perspective of life had changed. In her own eyes even the view of her marriage had changed. Her complacent happy world had been given a good shaking. She had KEEP MY OWN looked into the past, and tried to look into the future. She hadn't liked what she saw in either place. Unconsciously, she rebelled against it, and wanted no part of it. Irene had been content in South Africa. America was a dream. Zion was perhaps more than a dream, she had even thought of it as the center of her faith, but never as a reality that she might someday experience. Dick had appeared like a Prince Charming from that dream world, a man young in years but already making a deep impression in the field he had chosen. He was a gifted architect. He had gone into architectural engineering at the suggestion of Government officials when he went to work for them. He had traveled like a diplomat, but was a sober young man. Irene sighed, thinking of the Prince Charming she had married. Something moved under the sink. She strained her eyes to see into the Shadows, when without warning a mouse scurried out, across the floor. Irene screamed. Her voice pierced the silence, breaking the dusty quiet. "Dick, Dick!! Oh, Dick, where are you? Dick, Dick, wait for me!" She ran through the door. He, too, had come running at the sound of her voice, and was night outside in the hall. He caught her in his arms. "Irene! What happened? Are you all right?" HE rested in the safe haven of his arms for a moment. 'Then, shamefaced, she looked up into the concerned depths of his gray-green eyes. "I didn't mean to be such a 


 fool. Only, it was so quiet, and dark, and then I saw a mouse. In the kitchen." A convulsive shudder ran through her. He allowed a wave of relief to engulf his frame. "A mouse. You scared me to death. I thought you'd been hurt or something." A deep voice that wavered with age startled them both. "We'll have to get you a cat." "Granddad!" Dick released Irene and hurried to where the old gentleman stood in the kitchen door. They embraced, emotion overpowering their reserve for a minute. Irene remained aside, respecting that emotion and their need to express it. She felt again that foreignness, and wished she could turn about and run far away where she would never have to meet and know this man who held prior claim on her husband. Then she saw the child. He was perhaps eight or nine years old. He stood close to Dick's grandfather, and a little behind him in the shadows. He looked like any other boy his age, at first glance. His blond hair was tousled, and he wore blue jeans with a_ brightly striped shirt. Irene smiled in greeting, and in so doing looked directly into his eyes. She almost gasped aloud. She retreated within herself in horror. Davy was looking at her. He didn't smile in return. In the blue depths of black-fringed eyes that met hers, she read nothing. Emptiness. A blank. There should have been something to read in those eyes! But Davy's eyes were as void as his lips. The child had no expression whatever on his face.