[Vol50 | January 1963 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Poem | Title: Sego Lilies — Second Prize Poem Roxana F. Hase]
Sego  Lilies 
Impatiently  we  waited  for  the  snow  to  melt, 
The  sun  to  warm  the  winter-weary  roots; 
Then,  kitchen  fork  and  tin  pail  in  our  hands, 
We  searched  the  valley  floor  for  sego  lily  shoots. 
How  earnestly  we  took  the  prize  from  loosened  earth. 
Brown-coated,  small,  but  succulent  and  sweet; 
Manna  in  a  desert  not  yet  blossomed  as  the  rose. 
How  blest  we  were  to  share  this  hidden  treat! 
Stern  greasewood  fingers  caught  and  held  our  skirts, 
Chill  gusts  of  wind  made  bonnets  insecure 
As  self-appointed  guardians  tried  to  hide. 
Some  of  the  precious  root  bulbs  to  mature. 
Thinking  only  of  our  present  needs, 
We  would  have  taken  all,  these  hunger-laden  hours. 
But  who  could  doubt  the  wisdom  of  the  plan 
To  let  us  also  know  the  beauty  of  the  flowers! 
23

Third  Prize  Poem 
Doiothy  J.  Roberts 
Attic  Rain 
On  attic  roof  there  is  the  sound  of  showers; 
And  on  my  eyes  the  sting  of  inward  rain 
And  in  my  heart  with  every  spring  returning, 
The  stored  away,  recurrent  wrench  of  pain. 
A  broken  tool  .  .  .  and  here  a  bit  of  garden 
Still  dangles  from  the  worn  sole  of  a  shoe. 
The  step  it  took  returning  every  season 
Past  thistled  solitude  and  twigs  of  yew. 
Pen-fashioned  lines  re-read  and  keepsakes  dusted 
A  slow-resolving  memory  clinging  yet  — 
This  barren  desert  of  a  love's  withholding 
Indigenous  to  dust  where  eyes  are  wet. 
The  dust  from  broken  days  should  not  be  sterile, 
Tears  be  but  stains  upon  an  attic  floor; 
What  wonder  wakens  in  a  dry  Sahara 
When  the  falling  rain  beats  on  its  hidden  door. 
m 
Heart-cleaning  time  comes  to  the  April  moment, 
And  like  the  seasonal  showers,  attic  tears 
Water  the  roots  and  nourish  new  tomorrows  — 
As  roses  from  this  dust  —  the  reaching  years. 
24

Miranda  Snow  Walton  was  bom  in  Wyoming  and  has  resided  for  several  years  in 
El  Monte,  California.  She  is  a  third-generation  Church  member  and  has  served 
in  all  phases  of  Church  work  open  to  women.  Poetr\'  has  always  been  an  interest 
in  her  life,  and  she  was  named  the  outstanding  poet  of  Wyoming  in  1943.  Her 
poems  have  been  widely  published,  and  she  is  a  fifth-time  winner  in  the  Eliza  R. 
Snow  Poem  Contest,  having  received  third  prize  in  1936,  third  prize  in  1946, 
second  prize  in  1948,  first  prize  in  1961,  and  first  prize  again  in  1962.  She  now 
has  a  book  of  poems  entitled  For  Lovers  Only  ready  for  publication.  Her  poems 
have  brought  much  jov  and  comfort  to  her  family  and  to  her  many  friends  and 
fellow-poets. 
Mrs.  Walton  has  three  children:  Vivian  (Mrs.  Delbert  Owens),  Jack,  and 
Claude  Walton.  She  has  been  an  invalid  for  several  years,  and  confined  to  a  wheel 
chair.  [Note:  Mrs.  Walton  passed  away  in  El  Monte,  California,  November  12, 
1962,  several  weeks  after  she  had  received  notification  that  she  had  won  first 
prize  in  the  contest.] 
Roxana  Farnsworth  Hase  is  a  third-time  winner  in  the  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem  Con- 
test, having  received  the  second  prize  in  1933  and  third  prize  in  1937.  She  was 
born  in  Manti,  Utah,  and  educated  in  Manti  and  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  She  was 
graduated  from  the  Latter-day  Saints  Hospital  in  Salt  Lake  City  and  has  been  a 
registered  nurse  for  forty-three  years.  She  married  Grover  Hase  in  1922.  He 
died  in  1935,  leaving  her  with  three  children.  There  are  ten  grandchildren. 
After  her  husband's  death,  Mrs.  Hase  went  back  to  nursing  and  was  head  nurse 
at  the  L.D.S.  Hospital  in  Salt  Lake  City  for  many  years,  and  was  later  Assistant 
Chief  Evening  Supervisor  at  the  Veterans  Hospital. 
Her  book  of  poems  Delicious  Lumps  has  been  widely  circulated,  and  she  has  been 
national  Poet  Laureate  for  the  Colonial  Dames  of  the  Seventeenth  Century.  She 
has  been  counselor  and  president  in  ward  Relief  Societies  and  a  Sunday  School 
teacher  for  many  years.  She  is  a  member  of  the  National  League  of  American 
Pen  Women,  the  National  Writers  Club,  and  other  literary  organizations. 
DoTothv  J.  Roberts,  Salt  Lake  Cit}',  Utah,  attended  the  University  of  Utah  for 
three  years  and  taught  school  for  two  years.  She  began  her  writing  in  college  and 
has  published  stories,  articles,  and  poetry.  Her  work  has  appeared  in  the  Deseret 
News,  the  Salt  Lake  Tribune,  the  Improvement  Era,  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine, and  other  publications. 
She  has  won  the  Deseret  News  Christmas  Poetry  Contest;  second  place  in  the 
Utah  State  P'ine  Arts  Poetn'  Contest;  several  poetry  awards  from  the  League  of 
Utah  Winters  and  the  Utah  State  Poetry  Society.  She  has  been  a  winner  six 
times  in  the  EHza  R.  Snow  Poem  Contest,  having  won  the  first  prize  three  times. 
She  is  represented  in  four  poetry  anthologies. 
Mrs.  Roberts  is  the  wife  of  L.  Paul  Roberts,  a  Salt  Lake  City  business  man. 
They  have  two  married  daughters  and  six  grandchildren. 
Edith  Larson  is  a  third-time  winner  in  the  Relief  Society  Short  Story  Contest, 
having  won  the  third  prize  in  1955,  and  second  prize  in  1956.  She  lives  in 
Manton,  Michigan. 
"I  am  a  native  of  Minnesota,"  she  tells  us,  "a  long-time  resident  of  Michigan, 
and  a  former  resident  of  Fountain  Green,  Utah.  I  majored  in  journalism  at  North- 
western Universit)^  and  have  been  stud^'ing  and  practicing  the  art  in  my  spare 
time  ever  since.  When  I  retire  from  teaching  four  years  from  now,  I  expect 
to  devote  all  my  time  to  writing,  baby  sitting  for  my  grandchildren,  and  working 
in  the  branch  which  we  hope  will  soon  be  .organized  here.  Manton  and  Cadillac, 
combined  in  the  fall  of  1962,  gave  us  enough  sisters  to  have  our  own  Relief 
Society." 
25