[Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1892 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE Ricuts « OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" BEFORE RAILROADS: Before the advent of railroads through our beautiful Territory, when we traveled much by team, it was my good fortune to make an almost ideal journey through a very sparsely settled district.... We began our journey way down in the Blue Valley Country, but recently a part of Piute County.... To the South lay the grand old Henry mountain, densely wooded from base to summit.... Sixteen times during the day we crossed the stream which has a quick sand bottom.. The next morning we passed through a box canon. If the mountain had been cracked from crest to sea level and the wagon road made at the bottom of the crevice it would have looked just so; or, as one of the children remarked, "'God has marked out this road with His finger that we may not have to go up on this side of the mountain nor down on the other...."——Ellen Jakeman I WANT YOU SO I have not turned away my eyes From green of earth, or blue of skies. And I still hear, as once I heard, The splash of stream and song of bird. The way seems smooth before my feet. Yet in the dusk these tears will flow, "T want you so! IT want you so!" —The Magazine of Poetry WOMEN'S WORK IN THE WORLD'S FAIR:... Women of Utah, you have a glorious heritage. You breathe a higher and purer air than most of your brethren; your eyes constantly rest upon one of the most glorious landscapes with which God has ever blest the vision of man; your soil yields most abundant growth; you are environed by mountains with hearts of gold and veins of silver, and sinews of iron; you have magnificent resources. It remains for you to take advantage of this opportunity to show to the world the wealth and the grandeur that God has given you. —Mrs. Solomon Thatcher, Jr. A VERY PRETTY GIFT: A very pretty gift and much appreciated was that of a box of pressed ferns and sea-weed from the 'Sandwich Islands and the box contained unique Relief Society badges, such as were worn by the native sisters there on Jubilee Day, March 17th. The badges were for Zina D. A Yeung and her counselors. Including one for the editor.—Editorial ELECTIONS: The great question of the next» President of the Umited States ls to most people, a very exciting public matter.... So far so good, but the end ts not yet reached, but for the good name of our great Republic it is to be hoped peace and good order may be maintained and a disposition to bear disappointment bravely if on the losing side. Women are as deeply interested in this grave national matter as men can possibly be and have as much or more at stake.—Editorial 
California, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, is the author of Mild Silver and Furious Gold, a collection of lyrics recently published by Citograph Press im Redlands. The poems, revealing an optimistic spirit and a sensitive appreciation for people and places familiar to the poet, are beautifully expressed. ATHLEEN NORRIS, | well- ~ known California novelist and civic worker, spends much of her time in making public addresses urging women to take an active part in the affairs of local, state, and national government. During her trip to Utah in May, she said that in the coming half-century women should become so interested in the welfare of society that half the voters in the affairs of government would be women. RS. TOY LEN GOON, Amenican Mother for 1952, is fiftyseven years old, a Chinese-born laundry woman from Portland, Maine. Her name was presented by the Portland Business and Professional Women's Club, which mentioned the high regard in which she had been held in the community for thirty-eight years. Mrs. Goon has worked very hard to encourage and help her eight children with their education, especial Ramona W. Cannon ly since the death of her husband eight years ago. Her oldest son is Doctor Carrol Goon of Salt Lake
City, twenty-seven years old. Mrs.
Goon was honored at a luncheon at the Waldorf Astoria in New
York. Here indeed we see democracy in action.
QUEEN JULIANA of the Neth-
" erlands visited the United
States in April with her husband,
His Royal Highness Prince Bernhard, primarily to study American production methods. The Queen considers it a good thing that Dutch women are now able to choose whether or not they shall work outside their homes, and she favors advancing women's rights in Holland. She calls herself a ' 'working woman" and justifies the title.
Among many other duties, she looks over about two hundred letters a day, answering some personally and delegating other replies. The Queen speaks English, German, and French fluently. She dresses simply, patronizing Dutch shops and personally observing the economy which is at present a national necessity. She lives in a homey suburban palace, rather than in the formal, large palace at the Hague, and spends considerable time daily with her four young daughters, who attend the most progressive schools in Holland, and who, later, may marry commoners if they choose.
Page 447

EDITORIAL
VOL 39
JULY 1952
NO. 7 cJhe 71 arrow (k oom
OECENTLY, in a small town, a woman who had lived there all her life died at the age of eightythree. Many of her relativesnieces and nephews and grandchildren who had gone away to live in far places, returned to attend the funeral. Afterwards, when they assembled in the small cottage, set up against the hills, one of the granddaughters remarked: "I feel sorry for Grandma, having to live more than eighty years in this little town, limited in her activities and in her viewpoint— as one living in a narrow room."
But that young woman did not really know her grandmother, nor did she realize that the spirit can grow and expand and reach toward perfection in any environment. The woman who lived in the small town became aware of this significant truth as her years lengthened, as her understanding was quickened, and as her heart learned the ways of unselfish love.
To her, at first, her home itself was a place of wonder and enchantment—her home, to change and mold to her own ideals of beauty and convenience, to shape to the needs and the comfort of her family. Home was a broad field in which she could use her industry, her artistic talents, her practical skills, to the fullest extent. Every wall, every floor, every window, the doorways, the porches, all became
Page 448 places of interest. Her first carpet was gay in its varied colors, and it felt luxurious and soft to her feet.
The chairs, which her husband made, and which she painted, were treasured objects that lasted a lifetime in her kitchen. The corner cupboard, where she placed the set of dishes which had been in her mother's family for generations, became a lasting joy. Sometimes she would stand quietly for a few minutes looking at the dishes and enjoying them, thinking about the other homes in strange lands that had been made beautiful by those same dishes.
In her relationships with her husband and children, she found that as she gained understanding to look at life also through their eyes, her own world became broader.
Once, as she read from the New
Testament aloud to her small son, she saw the words of Jesus in a greater radiance, and she felt that she had entered into that hallowed place— the world of a child— and had shared an innocent, all-trusting faith with her small son.
And one day, when she was old, and it was autumn, she came into the living room carrying an armful of bright, yellow marigolds, and saw her husband sitting by the fireplace with his head bowed on his hands.
Then it seemed that all her life with him passed in review, and she realized that her love had grown so

EDITORIAL
449 deeply with the years that she could never be separated from his nearness while she lived upon the earth, even though she might be denied his companionship in the interim between their times of passing— and that, afterwards, they would be together in eternity.
Although she was known as a 1 'homebody," this woman reached out to accept all the blessings that community life could give her, and she gave freely of her own gifts.
She could not sing nor play the organ, but she could read well, and much of the poetry and literature familiar to the people of the town had come to them in the rich and sensitive voice of this woman who treasured books because they were links between the great thoughts and deeds of the past and the dreams of the unknown tomorrow.
Once, for a Fourth of July celebration, the people of the town erected a liberty pole and placed the flag of the United States upon it. This woman read the Declaration of Independence as her part on the program— and after that she knew the contents of that great document— and others remembered also.
She had never thought of her life as narrow or restricted, for each day she saw before her more opportunities than she could ever explore, more beauty than she could ever fully appreciate, more people than she could ever serve as she wished to serve them. And, more than all of this, she saw earth life s part of a great cycle, and she felt close to her pre-existence and near to the aftertime. In the wide, unbounded realm of the spirit, there are no limitations, no barriers save only those which the spirit itself establishes. For the reaching, growing, eternal spirit, there is no narrow room. —V. P. C. ®