Our Ninetieth Anniversary
By Amy Brown Lyman
ON the ninetieth birthday of the Relief Society our hearts are filled with gratitude, appreciation, wonder and admiration for our beloved organization. We are filled with reverence for its mission and its past colossal achievements; and have hope and faith for its future prospects and development. Like a great beacon light it has been sending forth its rays for nearly a century, lighting the pathway of its members and of those who have been recipients of its benefactions.
Birthdays are mile posts for both individuals and institutions. It is customary on such occasions for those concerned to review and take stock, to indulge in reminiscences, to recount blessings, to turn questioning eyes on the future, to rededicate efforts to ideals, principles and standards.
The official recognition of the women of the Church by the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1842 is one of the many outstanding evidences of the inspiration, wisdom and unusual leadership of this modern prophet, and one of the evidences also that the gospel was restored in its fulness. Through divine inspiration he turned the keys and opened the door for Latter-day Saint women to take their proper place in this Church and kingdom. On the 17th of March of that year the Relief Society was established in Nauvoo, Illinois, under his personal direction, for humanitarian, educational, and spiritual purposes, and ever since that time has stood as one of the distinctive organizations of women in the United States, advocating what has been best in our present-day civilization.
The story of the organization meeting, which was held in the old Masonic Hall in Nauvoo, has been told and retold by those who were present, and chronicled time and again in our publications; but it never loses interest. There were present on that occasion twenty-one in all: President Joseph Smith, Elders Willard Richards and John Taylor, and the eighteen women who had been invited to this initial meeting, and who thus became the charter members of the Society. Officers for the organization were chosen and voted upon. A name was selected, and instructions given by the brethren on the object and purposes of the Society, on the order of conducting meetings, and on general procedure. A charity fund was also begun.
In contemplating the life and work of the Relief Society we naturally go back to the beginning and follow it down through the years—back to its birthplace and setting, and there, either because of sentiment or historic interest, or both, we love to linger in our thoughts. To Latter-day Saints Nauvoo has been a sacred place, beloved of their parents and grandparents, founded by the Prophet and famed for its beautiful location, its rapid growth and development, its excellent and liberal charter, and its fine community standards. "In four years' time it rose from a few tumbledown shacks to the dignity of being the first city in Illinois in population and commercial enterprise." At the end of its sixth year the population was twenty thousand. Who can tell what the city might have become but for the tragedies which befell it just in the wake of this phenomenal growth and success?
At the time the Relief Society was organized, the city was only three years old and with a population variously estimated at from three to seven thousand. Where could be found a finer or more interesting setting for a new and important organization like that of the Relief Society than this newly founded and rapidly growing place with lovely homes and a beautiful temple in course of construction, and in whose every development the women of the Church played an important part.
While the Relief Society functioned here in a fully organized capacity only two years, from March 17, 1842, to March 16, 1844, and while there were many dark and anxious days during this period, followed so soon by the most tragic events, it accomplished a wonderful work in feeding the poor, clothing the naked, housing the homeless, comforting those depressed in spirit, promoting faith and courage and in helping to raise funds to complete their beloved temple. Its membership grew from eighteen to 1310.
In our mind's eye we can see those early workers in that first meeting, sitting in silence and wonder, full of hope and expectation. We can see them later in action conducting their meetings with grace and dignity. We see them going to and fro through the streets of the city, dressed in their full skirts reaching to the ground, with tight bodices and long sleeves, and such outer wraps as manteaus or shawls, and with straw or shirred silk bonnets trimmed both outside and in with flowers, and wearing black or white net mitts on their hands.
The Nauvoo Relief Society women became the pioneer women of the plains, now without organization but filled with the spirit of their work and carrying it on individually, for there was plenty to do on those perilous journeys. In spite of the hazards of traveling and of the suffering and sorrows through which they passed, they were brave and courageous and more than willing to help blaze the trails across the great American desert to found an empire in the West.