An Appreciation By the Presiding Bishopric Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon, Bishop David A. Smith, Bishop John Wells "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction and to keep himself unspotted from the world." James 1:27. HE declaration of the Apostle James is the spirit of the Relief Society which was organized by the! Prophet Joseph Smith, later expanded by President Brigham Young, and now organizations are found in every ward of the Church. Under the fostering care of the Priesthood and the splendid efforts of the women who have presided over the Relief Society, the organization has grown from a few members in 1842 to 'more than 64,000 devoted Latter-day Saint women. There are now over 10001: organizations in the stakes of Zion and approximately 400 organizations of the Relief Society in the missions. It is a society for benevolence, education and progress among women. Its purpose is to advance in every legitimate manner the welfare of women, having in view particularly the stabilization of family life. It assists in caring for the poor and unfortunate. It labors under the direction of the bishop to alleviate poverty, sickness, ignorance, distress and other similar conditions prevailing among the sisters of the Church which deter the development and progress of Latter-day Saint family life. No other organization is better adapted for this work. We sincerely appreciate the close cooperation of the General Presidency and Secretary of the Relief Society in their labors in supervising the work of the Relief Society. The weekly meetings held with them have been the means of coordinating the work of the bishoprics of wards and the local Relief Societies. By this means problems connected with service to the poor and afflicted have been passed upon and a definite program outlined. The care of the poor is the duty of the Priesthood. This responsibility is placed upon the bishopric of each ward. The Relief Society is the chief aid to the bishopric. It is our earnest desire that the bishoprics shall invite the Relief Society officers to meet with them once a month or oftener, if necessary, to consider general relief work, plans for looking after the poor, the sick and those in distress. At these meetings the Relief Society officers will report their labors and receive advice and counsel from the bishopric in dealing with their special activities in the ward. 'We have urged upon the bishops that thorough investigations be made when unfortunate members of the Church apply for help so that intelligent and constructive work can be done with these unfortunates. All such work should be done in conformity with the spirit and practice of the Church, with a sympathetic and kindly attitude toward those who are in need of help. We heartily endorse the Relief Society institutes, several of which are held each year. These institutes are for the purpose of training Relief Society officers and members AN APPRECIATION in the best methods of caring for the poor. Our success in the past has been because of the ward units, which have helped to preserve high spiritual conditions, and this should be the keynote and basis of all Relief Society work in conjunction with the bishoprics of the wards. It is one of the essentials of all Relief Society work to help people to get their own livelihood. Therefore, there is vital need for training Latter-day Saint women, imbued with the spirit of the Gospel, in the better methods of caring for the poor. We hope that in the near future every ward will have at least one worker trained in the fundamentals of social work. The Relief Society has made an enviable record. Voluntary service is the spirit of the work, as it is of the Church. With the exception of a few paid workers in social service, all Relief Society activities are administered without cost. These workers proceed like neighbors helping neighbors. They are keeping in mind the two great commandments of the Lord: To love God and to love their neighbor. Not only do the activities of the Relief Society deal directly with 139 the poor, but many thousands of bottles of fruit and vegetables have been provided; thousands of articles of clothing have been made by members of the Society; old clothes have been gathered and remade for distribution to the poor. Temple work and numerous other activities have been encouraged. The interest on the wheat fund has been used almost entirely for child welfare and maternity purposes. The present depression has called for tremendous efforts from the Relief Society organizations. There has not only been the care of the poor, but the problem of the unemployed, and how nobly have these sisters, with the help of the bishoprics, arisen to this occasion and met the situation of poverty, distress and unemployment, and have alleviated these conditions as far as it was in their power. Their work has been so well done that the statement has been made that there is less suffering from the depression among Latter-day Saints than in any other community. May the Relief Society, in all its functions, grow and expand in usefulness and in the ideals for which it was organized.