"The Least of These"
By Albert R. Lyman
DOWN from the white summits to the valley came winter with its gloom and chill. It sealed up the glad streams along the sidewalks, it drove the dry leaves about under the trees and moaned sadly through the naked limbs. Unseen along with it like a spectre, came want, entering unbidden to the homes of the poor. As winter closed its fierce grip, and gray clouds left mists of cold snow on the valley, want grew bold in its lowly quarters, smiting its defenseless entertainers with cruel hand.
The cries from its blows echoed forth from one mouth to another till they reached Aunt Emma, whose duty was ever to go at the first sign of distress. No one wondered that Aunt Emma dropped her own affairs without question to go at once—of course she would go—she should go—was she not president of The Relief Society?
That she was a widow with no regular income, a woman of all-work, ready for any honest and honorable employment to which she could turn her hand, was hardly a related fact. To shake her hand was to feel the callous and ruggedness of genuine toil. With her fatherless children she met all things gamely and bravely, assuming this extra burden of love in splendid forgetfulness of what she carried already. Hiding her own worries and sorrows she smiled bravely and cheerfully for others, and the unthinking multitude considered her amply able, and somehow under obligation to bear the heavy yoke of her office.
That office imposed regular responsibilities each year, each month, each week and almost every day. And yet special cases from various quarters claimed additional attention, calling to her at any time of the day or night, and expecting always, of course, to get ready response. If people became sick, or otherwise distressed, they looked to the (Relief Society, and to Aunt Emma in' particular for assistance, and sorrowing hearts turned to her and her aids when their loved ones 'lay stricken in death. And now, as want and winter grew loud in their wail, reports came of a family with several small children, in great need of both food and clothing. Aunt Emma was a large woman, not able, even when in good health, to move with ordinary ease, but she went herself without delay to see the destitute family. She found them as bad, or worse than reported, and her big heart moved with concern for their comfort. Calling on her assistants she took up the case, and started a movement to provide the necessary food and clothing. This case was not at all unusual with Aunt Emma and her unfaltering co-laborers, they had become inured to one pressing requirement treading close on the heels of another, making their lives intense and their burdens heavy. But along with the urgency incident to supplying the needy members of this particular family, the president was not well, and she trudged back and forth with heavy step. Did she complain of not being well? Not then—not till intervening years had made it impossible for "THE LEAST OF THESE" such a complaint to hinder the work in hand. If ever she had moments of doubt or discouragement, she smothered their secret in her own breast, but naturally in her weariness and her heavier ordeals, her mind went back to years of toil and trying places which she had passed with her fatherless children since she became a widow. She looked back to hardships and perils on the frontier, and heartaches she had borne for conscience sake. Trudging wearily homeward through the keen December wind, trying to bury her own worries to formulate more efficient plans of relief, she sank at last on the bed in her own home and fell asleep. And still in 'dreams she dragged on in the service of the needy, holding to the familiar pathway sh. Had followed for years. She stood again in destitute homes, she considered their want and their poverty around her; she caressed their lean ragged children and took their protesting and unkempt babies in her arms. Then unbidden, deep in her chambers of thought, came a feeling that these babies were not equal to other little people to whom she -had ministered. Silently, deeply there in her soul she wondered if her labors and sacrifices for the lowly and unappreciative were quite as profitable, and as much to be desired, as her efforts with more superior people, especially those who appreciated her services and blessed her as an angel of mercy whenever she entered their homes. Then her dream changed—it be167 came more than a dream. The nude little baby on her lap, at whom she had looked disparagingly as a child of inferior parentage, and therefore of little promise, underwent a wonderful transformation. "As I looked at him," she afterwards related, "the impression came to me that he was the Saviour, and I recognized him as the Christ Child. I thought, 'O what a great honor this is! Whoever had such a privilege? To actually hold the Christ Child on my lap! I was filled with unspeakable joy—my whole being was aflame with the glory of the Lord! In the midst of this, the greatest of joys, I awoke, and these words of the Saviour came instantly and impressively, 'thrilling me through and through: 'Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these my children, ye have done it unto me'." Who was Aunt Emma? A fictitious character framed to illustrate an imaginary ideal? Emma Summerville McConkie was known and loved in various Utah towns as an untiring worker in the Relief Society and in the Primary. Humble and unassuming, but aggressive in giving relief to the needy, and in teaching saving truth to little children, she completed her splendid earth-labors in January, 1924, at Moab, Utah. "And what delights can equal those Which stir the spirit's inner deeps When one who loves but knows not, reaps The truth from one who loves and knows." Notes to The April Conference Plans are underway for the Relief Society April conference which will be held as usual on the two days preceding the annual conference of the Church. As this is the official conference of the Relief Society, it is required that every Stake in the Church be represented, and as many Missions as can find it possible. The special features will be the course of study including class demonstrations in each of the three regular departments, and in the Teacher's Topic department; the Work and Business meeting; and the Social Welfare Work. The work in the latter department will feature charity and relief work with the special object of helping the Stake Social Service Aids and ward presidents. It would be an ideal thing if each stake could send a delegate for each department, but since this is not possible for the far away Stakes which necessarily have to limit their delegation, the program will be arranged so that those who do come will have opportunity to cover most of the work. ' There will be fine musical numbers and an entertainment for the official delegates. The Field The Relief Society Not A Selling Agency There is a continuous effort made to use the Relief Society as a selling medium. Always the people who desire to do this emphasize that it is for the good of the organization that they offer the opportunity of selling their wares, not for their own financial profit. While it is not within the province of the General Board to inform the sisters of the Relief Society, as individuals, as to what they should do in the world of business, it should be understood that it is decidedly against the policy of the Relief Society to make it in any sense a selling agency. It is absolutely necessary that this policy be adhered to quite strongly, else we would be overwhelmed with offers from all sorts of commercial enterprises wishing to make the Relief Society a medium of distribution for their supplies. Let it be clearly understood that the Relief Society as an organization is not in the commercial field, and while in some cases it may be advantageous to conduct an enterprise of this kind, on the whole it is to the best interests of the organization to refrain from such undertakings. The organization must be protected against exploitation. Work and Business We are delighted with the remarkably fine outlines prepared by the Work and Business departments of the Grant and Cottonwood stakes. It is evident that careful attention and much time have been given to them. The committees have used the ability and training of experts and have circulated U. S. Bulletins and Utah State Agricultural College circulars that give helpful suggestions. Because we believe these outlines will be suggestive and helpful to others, we are publishing the general outlines sent out to the ward officers by the Grant