A Visit to the Members of the First Relief Society
By Vesta Pierce Crawford
"I hear the tread of pioneers Of nations yet to be, The first low wash of waves where Soon shall roll a human sea." —J. G. Whittier.
LET us imagine that time has turned back nearly a century, and we are going to visit the members of the very first Relief Society! Our journey should prove both pleasant and profitable, for we are going to meet those pioneer women who planted the seed that has grown into our present large and effective organization.
Let us leave behind all the impediments of 1932, since we must use our historic perceptions and change our point of view just ninety years. We are ready, now, to set out for Nauvoo, the Mormon City, on the Mississippi River. Travel will be by stage or carriage, or we may take one of those "swift and elegant" boats that ply with some regularity up and down the great river. If we are fortunate, we shall charter passage on the Prophet Joseph Smith's own steamer, "Maid of Iowa," and sail up the river past St. Louis and Keokuk, to Nauvoo. There are two landings, upper and lower, but we shall strike anchor at the lower landing and proceed directly to Main Street.
It is 1842, and Nauvoo the Beautiful is only three years old. There is the very sheen of newness about it—new lumber houses, new roads, new sidewalks, new-plowed fields, and even new lilac buds bursting in the early sunshine. There are sounds of industry in the place—the clang of farm implements, galloping of horses, lumbering of laden wagons, and the pounding of hammers on new roofs. Eastward, on the prairie, rise the shining temple walls.
As we look at the beautiful city, let us recall how the Prophet called together eighteen of the leading women, they were called "female spirits" then, and organized them into the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo. Let us say that we know how it was done, with John Taylor and Willard Richards assisting, and how on the pulpit that very day was found an open Bible, having this appropriate verse inserted on a scrap of paper:
"O, Lord, help our widows and fatherless children, Amen. So mote it be. With the sword and the word of truth defend thou them, so mote it be."
And with charity in their hearts and eagerness in their faces, the chosen ones came at the Prophet's call, and began the task of organization. Who were they, these women leaders of nearly a century ago, these women who had the courage and the faith to do what women had never successfully done before—to organize themselves into an active association for benevolent purposes?
Here are the names, as they wrote them down that day, March 17, 1842:
Emma Smith Sarah M. Cleveland Phebe Ann Hawkes Elizabeth Jones Sophia Packard Philinda Merrick Martha Knight Desdemona Fulmer Elizabeth Ann Whitney Leonora Taylor Bathsheba W. Smith Phoebe M. Wheeler Elvira A. Coles Margaret A. Cook Sarah M. Kimball Eliza R. Snow Sophia Robinson Sophia R. Marks
Let us call upon some of these women and learn all we can about them. What part do they play in the work of the Church? Where did they come from? What is their heritage? What are their hopes and ideals? And, of course, because we are women, and therefore curious, we shall want to know other things. How old are they? Are they married? Are they good housekeepers? Are they mothers? They will all be very busy and we must not stay long.
Perhaps we shall pass some of them on the street. They will be wearing long wool coats buttoned down the front in redingote style, or little capes or pelerines, if the day is fine. In their homes they will wear full gathered cotton dresses in dainty "sprigged" patterns or plain material, and the collars will be white, crossed like a fichu in front. And what will they talk about? Some of them will tell you that they have followed the migrations of the Church from New York, through Ohio to Missouri, and back again to Illinois. Others will ask you to look at the temple walls and the lengthening streets of Nauvoo and read the story written there. They will nearly all of them mention their children and say how glad they are that there is a school in Nauvoo.
Much alike in their ideals and their enthusiasm for home and Church, these women are very different in personality, and we shall be that much more interested in meeting them.
First we shall call at the home of Emma Smith. She is President of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, and we have already heard that her leadership is both sympathetic and dynamic. She lives in a comfortable frame house very near the river, and she will come to the door herself. We see a tall woman of queenly carriage, very stately and dignified. Her hair is dark, parted in the middle, and coiled in a "bun" at the back of her neck. Likely she will be dressed in lavender, for that is her favorite color, and her white apron will be spotless. She is very quiet, and you will realize at once that you must ask questions if you succeed in conversing with this woman who has about her the reticence of the Hales of Pennsylvania. She is neither visionary nor voluble, but a person of calm decision and untiring devotion to her people.
When she took the chair immediately after her election as President of the Relief Society, her maiden speech lacked flowery flourishes, but the eagerness of service was there: "We are going to do something extraordinary. When a boat is stuck on the rapids with a multitude of Mormons on board we shall consider that a loud call for relief; we expect extraordinary occasions and pressing calls."
In Emma's calm demeanor, in her quiet voice, in the strength of her splendid physique, we recognize the characteristics of undemonstrative ability. We have already heard how the Prophet's home has always been a haven for the destitute, and that there is scarcely a household in Nauvoo that has not known the personal ministration of "Joseph and Emma" as their "brethren and sisters" affectionately called them. But Emma will not mention this. The Relief Society, just now, is her principal interest, and she will tell us that the sisters hope in time to be able to help all the needy, so that Nauvoo will be a city of unmarred joy and beauty. The alleviation of suffering and sorrow is the aim of the new Society, and the splendid system of cooperation insures a wider service.
Emma Smith, although she has, for ten years, been a natural leader among the women, feels that she is not capable of directing the Society so that it can reach the height of its possibilities. There is so much that could be done. But we find that Emma's associates do not doubt her ability, and their allegiance to her is a pillar of strength in the association. As we say "Goodbye", Emma's wide dark eyes smile at us, and we walk along between the lilac bushes, noticing, as we go, that low-bedded pansies are in bloom.
Sarah M. Cleveland, the first counselor, is a neighbor to Emma Smith, for when the Prophet first arrived in Nauvoo, he immediately wrote to his good friends, the Clevelands of Quincy, Illinois, and said that he had selected a lot for them just across the road from his own property. The Clevelands lived in Quincy when the main body of the Saints fled across the river from Missouri in the spring of 1839. It was they who gave Emma Smith and her children shelter and cared for them until Joseph was released from prison.
Mrs. Cleveland is a vigorous, capable woman, brisk in movement, brisk in conversation. She is the type that goes eagerly forward to meet work. One wonders if she knows how to rest. But then Nauvoo is no place for laggards. Her definition of charity is "less dreaming, more doing", and she finds scope for her practical kindness in Nauvoo as she did in Quincy. She is admirably adjusted to frontier life, and we wish that we could take with us some of her ambition and strength. What a day of growth! Enthusiasm is contagious.
And here we are at another door, waiting to see Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who is the second counselor. We see that she is older than Mrs. Cleveland and Emma and also that she is more talkative. There is about her a warmth of friendliness. She has lived a life "brim full" of romance and achievement, and she has reached the retrospective age. As a young girl she came from New England out to Ohio, which was then "the far frontier", to live with a maiden aunt. There she met Newel K. Whitney, a man of wealth and character. He had been for years a trader on the Great Lakes, and once, when he was younger, his life had been saved, like John Smith's, by an Indian girl. Her name was Moudalina, and the Whitneys have a daughter named for her.
Newel Whitney was able to accumulate money in such large amounts that his friends said that he was depression and panic proof, and that it was impossible for Whitney boats to be lost on the lakes or for Whitney goods to be low in the markets. Newel and Elizabeth Ann were living in Kirtland when the Prophet came to that place. He arrived in winter, and stepping from the sleigh, grasped Newel Whitney's hand and said, "Newel K. Whitney, thou art the man!" Newel was surprised at first, and then he remembered having seen the Prophet in a dream, and he made him welcome at once. Elizabeth Ann is justly proud of the fact that it was she who entertained the Prophet and his family in those early Kirtland days.
We have heard that Mrs. Whitney is an excellent singer. Well, yes, she explains, she loves to sing. Heber Kimball and John Taylor both have pianos, and "musical meetings" are frequently held in their homes. The Saints gather around Elizabeth Ann and the piano and sing, "The earth was once a garden place at Adam-ondi-Ahman", and "An angel came down from the mansions of glory and told how a record was hid in Cumorah." There are many other good singers among the women—Zina Huntington, Emma Smith, the Partridge girls—and the music they have in Relief Society meeting is very good.
And Zion has her poets, too, we learn. Eliza R. Snow is the "poet laureate" of her Church, and no official versifier ever felt more closely the pulse of the people. She is a vivid, dark-eyed woman, with a sensitive face of great spiritual beauty. Her features are well formed and delicate, and there is a compelling loveliness in her expressive eyes. She is Lorenzo Snow's sister, well educated, refined, and talented. We find that love for Nauvoo and for the Church is the dominating force in her life. Others, perhaps, are as loyal, but no one else has such a gift of beautiful, lucid literary expression. She celebrates Nauvoo and its history in ringing rhythmical verse, and her "fair city on the river" loves her as well as she loves it. "Our Eliza," say the women of the Relief Society, and "Our Eliza" is echoed in Nauvoo.
Leonora Taylor, wife of John Taylor, is one of the most beautiful and lovely women in the city. She is the daughter of Captain Cannon of the Isle of Man, and for several years she lived in Castle Rushen, with the Governor's family. It was in Toronto that she met and married John Taylor. They were both ardently religious, and after they joined the Church and moved to Kirtland, John Taylor became one of the Prophet's most staunch defenders, and the refined, well educated Leonora found her niche in the rapidly expanding work of the vigorous new Church.
We learn that the Relief Society is growing so rapidly that no building in Nauvoo will hold all of the members. More than two hundred joined in a day, and four times there were more than one hundred who became affiliated at a single meeting. It has been necessary to teach many of the women not only the principles of the gospel, but also how to keep house and raise gardens, and preserve fruits and vegetables, and take care of the children. Leonora Taylor, with others of the first eighteen, does not hesitate to do the kind of work that the occasion demands.
Now we shall visit Sophia Packard. Her maiden name was Bundy, and as a girl she lived in Massachusetts. She will say that she was an early convert to the Church, baptized in 1832. Mr. Packard has always been active, particularly in the High Priests' Quorum, where he has served as counselor to Don Carlos Smith. He has walked 15,000 miles to spread the gospel, and has preached nearly five hundred discourses. That is loyalty. We realize that the Packards are of the hardy faithful stock who build empires. Mrs. Packard speaks mostly of the accomplishments of her husband, but finally she does acknowledge that she too has not been idle. People say that she is one of the best nurses and housekeepers in Nauvoo, and very few women can stitch so well. And yes, she has a family and is proud of all the children.
Philinda Merrick is a widow. Her husband was killed in Missouri and Brigham Young helped her to move into Illinois. She wants to tell us about a very interesting incident that occurred at the first meeting of the Relief Society, the day it was organized. Emma Smith had just been elected President, and in her initial address she urged the women to give all the work they could to Mrs. Merrick and to be prompt in payment. Wasn't that thoughtful—to begin so soon to help the widows?
It is a broad message of charity and uplift that we have found in Nauvoo among these outstanding women. We wish that we could visit all of "the first eighteen," but we hear the boat horn signalling from the landing. We must be going, but let us take away with us, in our hearts, a portion of that spirited devotion we have found among the charter members of the Relief Society.