The National Council's Participation in the Century of Progress Exposition At the Chicago World's Fair held forty years ago, the women of the world held a great international conference. Now Chicago is planning another great exposition for 1933. This one is to be developed "upon scientific and educational lines and will point not only the way our civilization has come but perhaps the way it is to go." Early in 1931, Dr. Anna Garlin Spencer presented to the National Council of Women the desirability of the women again showing to the world the power and influence of their organized life. She hoped that in the 1933 exposition there would be a picture of women's organizations and their work in the social science building of the Century of Progress. She hoped that "this work would be crystallized through the publication of a book based upon scientific research and made a permanent record of the achievements of organized womanhood." Before her death, she had secured the generous cooperation of the Century of Progress Exposition. Approximately five million club women throughout the United States have pledged their cooperation to what is claimed to be "one of the most dramatic and spectacular projects which has ever engaged the attention of organized womanhood in America. They will unite in an exhibit at the Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago in 1933, which will demonstrate the monumental accomplishments of women along cultural, philanthropic and welfare lines during the past one hundred years." Already the National Council has leased 2,400 square feet of floor space in the Social Science Building for the use of its twenty-one member organizations. "Here it will unfold the dramatic story of how 180 women's organizations have developed from the first small cultural societies to the large influential groups which play an important part in the civic life of America today." The National Council of Women will also sponsor an International Congress in connection with the Exposition, which women from many countries will attend. A research worker will prepare scientific material upon which the exhibits and the dramatic record will be based. A well-known woman writer will weave this material into a fascinating story of the work of women's organizations. The three projects were formally launched at a dinner given by the National Council of Women in honor of Mr. Rufus C. Dawes, President of the Century of Progress Exposition, at the Vanderbilt Hotel in New York City late in November. Approximately 150 women RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE leaders from various parts of the country attended. Mrs. James Moyle represented the National Woman's Relief Society. It was estimated that it would take at least $100,000 and two years' time to carry out these plans. After investigation it was found that the Postal Telegraph Cable Company was desirous of having women become better acquainted with its many services, and it offered to furnish $100,000 for the exposition projects if the organization would secure a million signatures to petitions to be sent to foreign governments asking them to send their most representative women to this exposition, these petitions to be signed, as far as possible, in the Postal Telegraph offices. Where this is not feasible, the petitions may be signed in meetings. As a member of the National Council, the Relief Society is cooperating in getting signatures to these petitions.