The Joy of Service
By Sarah M. McLelland
NO greater evidence can be found of true service than that shown by the women of the Relief Society. Thousands are giving time and strength and means to help those in distress. We are building up an organization that is efficient in ministry, both for the living and the dead. The work extends from ocean to ocean. Our reward is not found in public recognition nor in material increase, but in the joy of real service.
The work is not something vague and visionary but is exemplified in daily tasks and sacrifice. Of all money received for charity, one hundred percent of it reaches its goal. In periods of depression our activities are enlarged and our love goes out in greater abundance to suffering humanity. Christ said, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me."
Service is constructive. We are builders of homes that are founded on love and sanctified by prayer. Service carries with it an obligation of courtesy and kindness. It requires sacrifice and courage to do what we feel and know is right. Courage is the fundamental part of success; it makes us strong in doing what we have resolved to do. "No life can be strong in its purpose and big in its strife without all other lives being made better."
The story is told of a boy on the battle field, whose comrade had been wounded. The captain said, "It isn't worth while to go after him; he is dead, and you may lose your life." But he went. It was worth while, for his friend was not dead and said, "I knew you'd come."
Many think that happiness consists of having and getting and in being served by others. It consists in giving and in serving others. Henry Drummond asked, "Are we letting the pleasures of modern life crowd out the finer things?" There is in every human heart a hunger and thirst for the things of the spirit. Let us not let the temporal things of life take away the blessings of spirituality.
The Lord has said, "For behold I will bless all those who labor in my vineyard with a mighty blessing. Wherefore, be not weary in well doing, for you are laying the foundation of a great work and out of small things proceedeth that which is great."
When we look back on the progress that has been made by woman during the last ninety years, we ask, who can vision what the next ninety years will bring?