A Tribute to the Relief Society By Bryant S. Hinckley, President of Liberty 'Stake NE familiar with the objectives of the Relief Society, with its plan for rendering service, with the spirit which motivates its endeavors and the personnel of the organization would be lacking in the finer sentiments of appreciation if he did not cheerfully avail himself of every opportunity to say some word of commendation and encouragement. In point of age this organization is, among the auxiliaries, the senior, and in point of service, the superior. All people whether they belong to this Church, to any other church, or to no church, are interested in practical religion. It is the fine art of living and of helping others to live. The members of this Society come as near practicing true religion as defined in holy writ as any people we know anything about. The Master, in the allegory of The Last Judgment, as recorded in Matt. 25:34, 36, explains with matchless beauty and _ simplicity what religion really is. "Then shall the King say unto them, on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit. The kingdom prepared for you from the foundations of the world: "For I was hungered, and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink; I was a thane! And ye _ took me in: "Naked, and ye clothed me; I was sick, and ye visited me; I was in prison, and ye came unto me." James (1:27) has this to say: "Pure religion and undefiled, before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their to new endeavor. Affliction and to keep himself unspotted from the world." The practices of this Society square with these standards. This organization gives more in service and in material aid at a smaller cost than any other relief organization in the world. (For sincere, gratuitous, sacrificial service its members stand in a class by themselves. A typical "'Mormon" Relief Society woman is what Kingsley calls "A natural kingdom-of heaven-ite." The writer calls to mind a Relief Society woman, past middle life, the mother of five, plain looking, plainly clad; she will never have a monument erected to her memory. [She knows very little of the meaning of luxuries and does not have all of the comforts of life. Few people outside her circle know anything about her; but her recording angel is writing a record bright with deeds of mercy. She carries about in her luminous soul the divine art of making peace, of planting hope in the forlorn heart, restoring confidence, banishing gloom, adjusting discords, dispelling fear and encouraging people We do not know what disappointments, what sorrows, are concealed in her own life. They are there but she never murmurs. — Somehow it is given to this woman to sweeten bitter experiences, to plant faith in bleak and barren lives, to uproot grudges and assuage grief. She has a sympathetic understanding of the problems of young people. They love her and go to her; she knows how to help them and to inspire them to finer A TRIBUTE TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY endeavor. She is just one of those great souls who live among the plain people and are not always discovered—a real Relief Society worker, and there are many like her. Beside all its relief work the Society does an inestimable service to those who work for it. It has a carefully elaborated program. It is an enlightened scheme of adult education skillfully adapted to the needs of the people. This leads its members into new fields of interest and inspiration, taking the drab and monotony out of many lives and helping them to discover gifts and talents which have lain dormant. The story is told of a farmer who, learning that his neighbor's wife had been taken to the mental hospital, went over to offer to his friend such solace as he could. In the course of the conversation the disconsolate husband told him that 141 he couldn't account for the misfortune that had come to his wife for, he said, "she hadn't been out of the kitchen for thirteen years." The contribution which this organization has made to the home is manifest on every hand. Louise Y. Robison, Amy Brown Lyman, Julia A. Child, Julia A. I) Lund 'and those associated with them in administering the affairs of this organization are women of faith, intelligence and nobility of character, typical of the finest womanhood of the land. Their leadership wins the affection and secures the cheerful allegiance of their associates. We say, without reservation, that this organization reflects the spirit and genius of "Mormonism" to the everlasting credit of this people, and its record is the pride and glory to every ward and stake in the Church.