Two Prayers
By Lula Greene Richards
IT was during the summer of 1882 when I was a young wife and mother that I became more conscious of the validity and significance of prayer, and more deeply impressed with my mother's sense of the magnitude of its beneficial results than I had previously been. I was frail at the time and conditions necessitated my doing much hard work which I had not been accustomed to. My aged, widowed mother was a member of our household.
One morning as I bent over a tub of hot suds and rubbed away on soiled clothes to make them clean, Mother came to me and said anxiously, "My daughter, I am fearful that you will be made sick with all this hard work."
"Oh, no Mother," I replied, smiling at her (perhaps rather faintly). "I have discovered a new way of obtaining help in these testing times, and I can work on and on. You must not worry."
"Can you tell me of this newly found help?" Mother asked.
And I answered, "It is simply to do as the Lord has taught his followers—to 'pray always that they be not overcome.' I say a short prayer, asking for help, and as soon as it is finished I commence at the beginning and say it over again. And you see Mother, in this way, I can keep on all right with my work."
Mother beamed on me a sweet smile of sympathy and approbation. "Well, my child," she commented, "you have just discovered, it seems, a way which you thought was new by which to obtain strength for emergencies. I have followed that same course month after month, week in and week out, for years and years, both before and after you were born."
I had nothing more to say. I lifted my hands out of the suds, shook and dried them, and winding my arms around my mother's shoulders, laid my face against her neck and wept a flood of pent-up tears by which I was greatly relieved and strengthened to resume my work and praying. I had been awakened to a new consciousness of my own mother's life of struggles and sacrifices, borne by strength received through the agency of constant, concentrated faith and prayer, a consciousness never to be forgotten or to become vapid.
Nearly seventeen years later, in the latter part of the winter and the spring of 1899, I was privileged to attend a National Woman's Congress held in Washington, D. C. As I sat in one of the sessions of the Congress, being one of a group of our Latter-day Saint sisters representing the women of Utah, I heard repeated a lesson similar to the one cited above. Very different, however, were the circumstances attending the two occasions. The first, as already portrayed, occurred in my own modest home in Salt Lake City, Utah. My mother and myself were the only persons present in a work-room surrounded by common domestic concerns. The lesson was given by a conscientious, humble, "Mormon" mother to but one of her seven daughters who was with her at the moment.
The memory of that by-gone incident came vividly to my mind on the second occasion that the same great lesson was forcibly transmitted to my soul. Instead of bending over a washtub in my own home, I was at this time comfortably seated in an easy chair in one of the great public buildings not far from our nation's capitol. Instead of my mother being alone with me, solicitous for my welfare, I sat in the midst of thousands of the bright, intelligent women of our country, who had come together for the purpose of discussing and planning ways and means by which they hoped the whole world might be really benefited.
At that session of our Council the ladies on the platform were talking over and arranging the program to be used by our American women who were to represent us at the International Woman's Convention to be held a few months later in London, England. One question brought up to be considered and passed upon was whether the session of the great council to be allotted to our United States representatives should be opened with public prayer or otherwise. A number of differing opinions were expressed on the subject, some in favor of the prayer being offered, others feeling that time thus spent might prove detrimental to the work they hoped to accomplish, rather than beneficial. After awhile, as there appeared to be no final decision on the question, a moment's lull served as an opportunity for an expression from a woman whose words were naturally waited for and listened to with most profound attention by the assemblage.
Very tersely were her views expressed and, to me her words seemed a repetition of the lesson given me years ago by my own mother, on prayer. Susan B. Anthony, one of the greatest and bravest women workers for the good and uplift of humanity the history of our world has yet shown, stood up before that vast concourse of her sister workers and satisfactorily settled their disputed question, at least for that time. As nearly as I am able to recall her exact words, they were as follows:
"This question cannot be decided here. We cannot tell now what conditions may exist when we shall be permitted to present our program in the Congress we are now working for. Lack of time or some other hindrance may be in the way to prevent our doing as we might be glad to do. But whether we are allowed to pray openly or not, nothing can hinder our secret prayers. I pray all the time with my head and heart and hands and feet. That is the way I have worked all my life—the way I have accomplished all I have ever done."
That was the declaration of the woman who had pioneered and pushed forward the mighty work of the emancipation of woman from political bondage until she saw in a measure at least the thing she had so nobly striven for accomplished. And she still worked and prayed, encouraging those who were in line with her to do likewise.
The newly awakened memory of my mother's acknowledgment on the same subject of work and prayer, coupled with thoughts of the ridicule, false accusations and persecutions of different kinds to which this now world renowned philanthropist had been subjected for so many years during her wonderful career, stirred me deeply.