Notes from the Field New Zealand Mission: Even from far away New Zealand, interesting tidings of the activity of Relief Society come to us. Sister Jennie Magleby, who has been president of the New Zealand Mission Relief Society for the past four years, writes as follows: "It has been my good fortune to help usher in the new programs of Relief Standing, Sister Takare Duncan, First President of the Relief Society in New Zealand. Seated, Mere Meha, 1st Counselor; Ani Renata, 2nd Counselor. Society work as outlined by the General Board; to see many new organizations established, with many more sisters enrolled and taking part in this wonderful work. We use the Relief Society Magazine in all our class work, and find it a wonderful aid, and a very effective exponent in putting over our work. The lessons from the Magazine are translated into the Maori language and published in our Mission paper for the benefit of all. The yearly reports for 1931 show an increase of three new branches, thirty-two new members, more meetings held, better attendances, and more time and money spent for charitable purposes." We quote the following from a history of the mission: "In the year 1901, under the able direction of President John E. Magleby, the first Relief Society of New Zealand was organized. Sister Takare Duncan was chosen and set apart as president, and Sisters Mere Meha and Ani Renata as her two counselors. After receiving instructions as how to carry on the work, Sister Duncan traveled throughout the Mission, organizing Relief Societies. Very few trains were running throughout the Island, and the roads were very rough, which necessitated most of the traveling being done on horse-back. Wherever the roads were good, buggies were used. The branches were few and far between, NOTES FROM THE FIELD and oftentimes a
night or two was spent by the wayside. "The early work was that of teaching the Maori women how to care for their homes and families, how to cook, how to make their own clothes, and also teaching them the Gospel principles. Sister Duncan was a faithful worker in pioneering the cause of the Relief Society in New Zealand. She is respected and loved by all those who have labored with her in this capacity. She is 66 years of age and still active and happy. Her two counselors are both alive, and whenever the three meet they enjoy talking over old experiences and incidents concomitant with the early rise and spread of the Relief Society work. In company with her husband, Sister Duncan made two trips to Salt Lake City to go through the Temple. The first trip was to receive their endowments, and the second time they were called by President Joseph F. Smith on special Temple work. Not until eleven years ago was Sister Duncan released from the Mission Relief Society. Today she is still an active worker in her branch. "The first counselor, Sister Mere Meha, has been a very capable worker in the capacity of her calling. She, too, was very active in pioneering the work of the Relief Society. The Elders always have a real Maori welcome, Haere Mai, at her door. Last May, at the age of 76, Sister Meha was the "life" of the Temple party—a group of thirteen, who made the trip of eight thousand miles to obtain their endowments in the Hawaiian Temple at Laie. By saving every penny of her money for a considerable time, she was able to provide her own $225.00—the necessary amount for the trip—the substantial aid offered by the Mission Relief Society was not needed. She is one of the very 175 tew of her age to learn to speak the English language fluently. She is a devoted Church worker, and a hardy pioneer. "The second counselor, Sister Ani Renata, is a staunch and devoted worker also. Besides being a Mission worker, she was president of the Tamaki Branch for twelve years, and was much loved by those working under her. She and her husband were also members of the last Temple group. "In later years it has become the policy of the Mission to place the Mission President's wife as President of the organization, with Maori sisters as counselors. Many changes have taken place, not only in the country, but in the Maori people. Trains now run to almost every part of New Zealand, and the automobile has taken the place of the horse and buggy. Schools are erected everywhere, and most of the Maoris are educated, and are on the same level as the Europeans. "The work of the Relief Society in the Mission is growing. Today there are fifty-two organizations, with a membership of 607. The lessons and outlines of work are taken from the Relief Society Magazine, and the work is patterned as near that of the home Relief Societies as possible. "For the past four years, with Sister Jennie Magleby at the helm, the work has grown by leaps and bounds; new programs have been introduced, and much interest added to the work. The sisters have found life more abundantly through being anchored to the truth, and enjoy their work of 'aroha' in the Gospel of the 'hearty hand shake'." Tahitian Mission: ANOTHER interesting report is from Sister Marguerite S. Bur176 bridge, president of the Tahitian Mission, which reads as follows: "I desire to report our Relief Society Conference which was held 'April 9, 1931. We had a very nice meeting, and some very interesting testimonies were borne. We did not have as many in attendance as we had hoped for, but on account of the bad financial condition of the natives, there were very few came from the Upper Islands. However, all the sisters in Papeete were in attendance. At the close of the meeting a dinner was served to all Relief Society members, as well as to all the members of the Church, and a very lovely time was enjoyed. We did not have a pageant this year, as I was very busy putting on an operetta with the children. We are enjoying our work down here very much, and feel that we are being blessed beyond measure." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Northwestern States Mission: From the Northwestern States Mission comes the beautiful picture, and account of the Relief Society pageant, which was presented in Seattle, also in Tacoma. "The Guardianship of Life,' was presented by the Relief Society of the Seattle Branch of the Northwestern States Mission, on November 13, 1931. The divine and spiritual message contained in this pageant, it was staged in such a delightful manner, the characters were so well chosen, and the magnificent flowers of the Northwest enhanced our stage setting to such a degree, that a repetition was thought necessary in order that more of the people of the branch would have the opportunity of seeing a production carrying so much of worth to all. This second production was given November 22, 1931, in conjunction PAGEANT "THE GUARDIANSHIP OF LIFE," SEATTLE BRANCH, NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION NOTES FROM THE FIELD with a Sunday Evening service, and our chapel was well filled. Visitors from the Tacoma Branch were in attendance that evening, and at a request from their Presidency, Seattle presented the pageant again in Tacoma, Friday evening, December 11, the closing night of a bazaar given by the Tacoma Branch, It was such a beautiful thought to present and leave with our sister branch at the Yuletide season, that it gave the Seattle Relief Society officers and members much happiness in doing it. The production was under the direction of Mrs. Alma Benson, President of the Seattle Branch, a most capable Relief Society member, Sister Pauline Lanyon, assisted by Jeanette T. Batt. Sister Laura Shomaker, first counselor in the Seattle Y. L. M. I. A., played the musical accompaniments. In the Tacoma offering Sister Onlyn Weiser sang the solo, "O My Father." Southern States Mission: From the Southern States Mission, Sister Grace E. Callis, Relief Society President, writes of their year's activities. "We offer the report of the work done by the Relief Societies of the Southern States Mission with a feeling of gratitude to the Lord for the increase in the number of Societies, growth of membership, the growing sympathy for the sick as expressed in increased and frequent visits to the sick, and the large amount of food, clothing and money distributed to the worthy poor, not all of whom are members of the Church. "Nobly and generously have the sisters responded, to the call requesting each of them to make or donate one or more articles of clothing to give the poor. With commendable public and civic spirit the women of several Societies have met with public charitable organizations and assisted in making clothing for the 177 destitute, thus showing that they have pity for the unfortunate outside as well as inside the Church. Most of the Relief Societies have prepared a written account of their organizations, which is really a history of the founding and the progress made up to date by the Relief Societies. All the officers are being urged to furnish this data for the historical records of the mission. The sisters sense the necessity of learning their duties more fully as members of their organization. During the year conferences were held. The questions asked by these unselfish workers disclose their willing minds and spirits to engage in this good cause. "With genuine missionary spirit some of the sisters have engaged in missionary work, joining themselves with the lady missionaries in tracting and holding cottage meetings. They have assisted in providing Christmas trees loaded with toys for the children. The strangers, the missionaries and members attending district conferences, have partaken without charge of substantial food provided and prepared by the sisters. "The spirit of patriotism had marked the planting of trees in honor of the Father of our Country. This act of recognition of George Washington has elicited much favorable comment from non-members. "In doing Relief Society work, not forgetting the nature of it as taught by the Prophet Joseph Smith, we are blessed of the Lord. Our visits to the sick, the knowledge that it is more blessed to give than to receive, give us a foretaste of heaven, and the blessed testimony that we are pleasing God. Faith in the Gospel is strengthened by the lessons in the Relief Society Magazine, and the counsel and instruction given by our Relief Society leaders make us happy and more efficient in our work." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON: President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Inez K. Allen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Manager Assistant Manager: Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman