Birthdays By Bishop Nicholas G. Smith SOME folks don't even know when their birthday comes: others make of it a great occasion; then again others go right on with their work, paying little heed to when their anniversary rolls around. Yet, why should we not bless the day that gave us an Edison, a Lincoln, a Washington? These lines are my tribute to the birthday of as great an organization as exists in the world today,—the Relief Society. Since it first was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, hundreds of thousands of people have been blessed through its agency. If you will pardon illustrations that come close home—a family consisting of five moved into our ward. Through sickness the father had to give up hard labor which his family were dependent upon. He was unable to do any other kind of work because he did not know how. The Relief Society sisters called on him and after going into his case, reported to me that 'the must be fitted for some kind of work. They had decided on the job that would suit and had worked out a way to teach him the new line. They also had, provided to feed his family until he was proficient enough to support them. The plan was successful, This incident occurred four years ago. A few weeks ago this man came in to see me. His face was beaming as he said, "Bishop, everything is going fine, I am surely thankful to the Relief Society in your ward for setting me free." A wreck, if you please, off the rocks, into safe waters, a useful citizen and all credited to the Relief Society. Should not this man's voice be raised in everlasting praise and thankfulness that such an organization had a beginning, a birthday? And thousands like him, when hunger, distress, sickness and death come: into their homes, have found succor in this same organization. Now think of these devoted women who have been the bearers of good will. Think how their hearts swell when they see that through them one of our Father's children has been helped. What an opportunity for growth—what an opportunity for happiness has been opened up to them through this birthday. How much better they can bear their own sorrows after having been so close to others' broken hearts. My relief Society president was called out late one night to an elderly sister who was in dire distress. Alone, she made her way to the little shack where lived the needy one, and just at the door she slipped and fell on the ice, breaking her leg in such a serious way that for months she lay in the hospital and was confined there for nearly a year. Her great regret, as expressed to me, was that she was unable to render any assistance to the sister whom she had set out to help and who had died a few days after. Such love, such devotion! Truly this is religion, for "pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the BIRTHDAYS world." How thankful for this birthday are these tens of thousands of devoted workers who are given such an opportunity to live a true religious life. How thankful are hundreds of thousands of people for this birthday. To their own door, once a month, one or more of the active workers of this organization call, bringing to them an opportunity to help, thus giving them a chance to find real joy. 143 Now for the Bishop — what a birthday—and what a life it would be without a Relief Society. Every day of my life I need it—every day of my life I call on it for help— every day of my life I pray for it. May the favor of our Heavenly Father ever rest upon this organization and the wonderful women who make up its membership and may the day of its birth and the. Manner of its birth ever be held in sacred remembrance by all Israel. Hope when we faltered, cheered us when sad..