Because They Care Oh, those precious minutes assigned to the president in visiting teacher meeting! I can't let anything interfere with that time. I care about each visiting teacher, and there is much that can be discussed to help each one to prepare to fulfill her assignment well. We can discuss the importance of being alert and concerned for every sister—the necessity of careful, prayerful preparation of each month's message, and the value of being dependable, of making the visits each month.

One month we can talk about our personal preparation, by living so that we do not "shut off our access to the Lord." With the channel open between the visiting teachers and the Lord, they will be given the "power of discernment" to know what each sister needs from the message each month as they visit, but I will caution them that they go into the homes with one thought in mind, and that is to be helpful. One month we will go over the qualities of a visiting teacher which make her effective. These are listed in the Visiting Teacher Report Book, so the teachers can refer to them often.

Ruskin said, "the path of a good woman is strewn with flowers, but they rise behind and not before her." Perhaps those flowers rising behind the visiting teachers do not catch their eye, but the rest of us know they are there, and I will tell them often during the year how much they are appreciated.

Thoughts of a Visiting Teacher Who Cares: I accepted the call to be a visiting teacher because I am not in the habit of refusing Church calls, but I really did not have a testimony of visiting teaching for the district to which I was assigned. It covers three blocks. All the people are long-time members of the Church and attend more or less regularly. They seem to be pretty healthy, with enough to eat and wear.

However, when the new president talked to me, she said that the call to be a visiting teacher comes from the Lord through the proper channels—that he is the one I am serving as I make my visits. That being the case; I wanted a testimony of the value of visiting teaching for all the sisters in all the districts.

I began to talk to people and to read articles about visiting teaching. I found many examples of devoted, dedicated visiting teachers. Some stakes in the Church cover hundreds of miles, and so the wards are scattered over large areas. Some teachers walk miles to make their visits, others ride bicycles, and others spend a long time on the subway.

In one mission branch, a pair of visiting teachers had a district which covered eighty miles round trip, and another pair had a district of forty-five miles, and these sisters made their visits! In that branch, the newest members of the Church were made visiting teachers, and they were enthusiastic about their callings and did a fine job.

I can see the value of visiting teaching in these places, because the visits would be the means of bringing the ward or the branch members closer together. New converts would benefit, too, for they would know they had friends when they came to church.

A branch Relief Society president praised two devoted visiting teachers who were willing to get involved with an indifferent sister. When the sister had moved into the branch she had asked that her name be removed from the roll, but the president felt impressed to ask the visiting teachers to call on her. The sister worked away from home, so the visiting teachers left messages, called late in the afternoon, and, finally, made contact.

They found the sister casual, but not cool, and the teachers kept in contact with her. Soon the sister brought her children to Sunday School, and they were warmly greeted and introduced to many members. Then the children went to Primary, and the sister to Relief Society.

Last year the "indifferent" sister was so active that she was asked to give some homemaking discussions in Relief Society. The president said, "Though other indifferent sisters have not reacted so favorably—the very fact that they are visited and know that the Relief Society sisters care for them can't help but be a good influence.... Success stories just come under different names."

I believe all those devoted visiting teachers have found true joy in the application of Christ's teaching: "It is more blessed to give than to receive." (Acts 20:35.)

Are there opportunities to "give" in our small district, where everything always seems so all right? Yes, there are, and today I got a testimony of it. After visiting teacher meeting, the president asked my companion and me to find out how we could best help Sister White, so that she could get to Relief Society. Then we were awake!

Now I see the value of going two-by-two to make visits, and having someone to consult who knows the sisters. My companion and I began to analyze our visits and really to think about the sisters in our district. We decided we had been asleep to need.

Oh, we had asked Sister White to come to Relief Society, but never once had we offered to pick her up. It seems that she would have to walk, and with three pre-school children, would have to leave home early and would not be back home until after the other children had returned for lunch. We decided that we didn't listen!

Last month Sister Jones had told us about her mother's illness and how hard it was to get her to the doctor. If we had been listening, we would have consulted the president and, under her direction, would have suggested that we drive so that Sister Jones could watch over her mother more carefully during the trip to the doctor's office.

We decided that we hadn't been very thoughtful, either! One sister had looked so very tired when we had visited her, and we had remarked about it, but we had not made plans to watch especially for her on Sunday at church to see if the tired look was still there, and to be alert to signs that our services might be needed.

My companion and I asked ourselves, "Don't we want to help?" Of course we do, for we care! It is just a matter of training ourselves to listen, to see, and then to do!

We realize that the sisters want to help them because they can, as long as they can, and not ask for outside help, but we want them to have the assurance that we stand ready to assist when we are needed.

H. Wayne Driggs said: When we think of the work done by the Savior, we are apt to remember his miracles, but it is significant that our works need not of necessity be these epic-making events. By the exercise of great faith, as Relief Society members, and more particularly as visiting teachers, we can actually aid the blind to see; we also can open the eyes of those who are spiritually dim-sighted; we can by faith still an actual tempest, and we also can calm the tempest in some troubled soul.

One is no greater miracle than the other. The acts of Jesus were acts of understanding and love. These we can perform. These are as much needed today as they ever were.

We can "go about doing good." (The , , page 479.)

Listen to the Thoughts of a Grateful Recipient: My