An Old-Fashioned Fair for Harvest Time Dee Berrett Maynard Riverton First Ward, Riverton Stake, Utah Violet Page Hamilton, President, Riverton Stake Relief Society Adel T. Maynard, President, Riverton First Ward Relief Society The wheel of autumn turns to the bounties of nature—color in gold and orange and green and purple. A When we began to plan our bazaar in early summer, we decided on a two-fold purpose. We needed to add to the funds of the organization, but even more, we wanted to provide a memorable evening for the families of our ward to enjoy. The decoration committee, under the direction of Edna Cowdell, Shirley L. Newman, Faye Stradley, and Evelyn Bills, gathered up all the refrigerator packing boxes they could find.

The boxes were taken apart and painted brown to make the walls of the booths. To support the walls, we used bales of straw which had been donated by one of the members. These were stacked two high along the sides of the display area. Along the back, lengths of lumber were laid between the first and second bales, and across the top to the second bale, making two convenient shelves for displaying articles. The booths were arranged in a "U" shape. Between the booths, and as a special display in the area reserved for eating, the bounties of the harvest were beautifully arranged—pumpkins, squashes, cabbages, Indian corn, onions, tomatoes, cauliflower, and wheat, along with Oregon grape sprigs and lovely sprays of Pyracantha. One side of the "U" shape ran across the cultural hall, segregating one end for eating. Our "Old-Fashioned Fair" featured many booths: Ye Olde Bake Shop, with all kinds of baked goods, but an especially varied selection of fruit cakes; an apron gallery; Grandma's pantry, complete with homemade soap, canned goods, onions, carrots, cheese, and other household supplies; a Candy Palace, specializing in hand-dipped chocolates; many handicraft displays, including quilts and handkerchiefs. The younger set could be outfitted from the Jack and Jill shop, and early Christmas shoppers found a great variety of gifts and a special gift-wrapping service. The "Fair" was indeed a memorable experience, richly rewarding to the Relief Society women, their families, and their guests. HER org ty bP Grandma's Old-Fashioned Pantry

Standing at the left: Shirley Newman; seated, Marsha Shaw
With needle and thread and scraps something beautiful is made.
Standing at one of the handicraft displays, Rebecca Dansie