Gift Cookies for All Occasions
Melba S. Payne

Not just for Christmas, but for Mother's Day, birthdays, wedding anniversaries, or just as an extra gift for someone special, these dainty hand-rolled and elegantly packed morsels are scrumptious looking and delicious to eat. The simple basic dough is easy to make, and creating the various centers and coverings is interesting fun. Packed in boxes like fine candies or placed in pretty decorated paper bowls, these cookies lend a festive air to any occasion.

Color Photograph by the author

8 ounces butter substitute
1 tsp. Grated orange rind
1 c. Sugar
2 3/4 c. White flour (sifted)
1 egg yolk (unbeaten)

Let the shortening soften. Add sugar gradually, creaming until light and fluffy. Add egg yolk and orange rind. Mix until evenly blended. Add the flour in fourths, mixing well after each addition. Final dough should form a smooth, compact ball.

Pinch off pieces of dough one inch in diameter. After filling the centers with the various goodies, roll into balls and bake in 325 degree oven for 25 to 30 minutes or until a light brown. Do not overbake.

Stuffed Date Tuck-ins
Stuff half dates with a piece of walnut and place in dough.
Hand roll into a smooth ball. Place on a lightly greased cookie sheet and bake as directed.
While cookies are still warm, shake them in a sack of powdered sugar and again when they are cool.

Pecan Logs
Add chopped pecans to the basic dough and shape into small logs one inch long. Dip in unbeaten egg white and roll in chopped pecans and bake.

Chocolate Nuggets
Place two or three chocolate chips in the centers.
Substitute vanilla flavoring in the dough for these instead of the orange rind.
Roll in powdered sugar after baking, or in the egg white, or in chocolate sprinkles, or small colored candies, before baking. Bake as for the pecan logs.

Cherry Hide-a-Ways
Insert a candied cherry or any of the fruit pieces from fruit cake mix.

Chocolate Fancies
If you would like a chocolate cookie, just melt some of the chocolate chips and add to the dough (without orange rind).
Roll in the egg white, then add chopped walnuts, and bake.
Remember a light brown. Do not overbake.
 
"SNOWSTORM" by Joseph Mallord William Turner (1775-1851)
British
For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 5—Appreciation of Beauty
Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, —Southern Hemisphere: .
Commentary on page 690.

"PORTRAIT OF A YOUNG MAN" by Rembrandt van Rijn (1606-1669)
Dutch
Taft Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio
For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Reward of Persistence
Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, —Southern Hemisphere: .
Commentary on page 689.
 
"SELF PORTRAIT" by Rembrandt van Rijn (1606-1669)
Dutch
National Gallery of Art, Washington D. C.
For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Reward of Persistence
Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, —Southern Hemisphere: .
Commentary on page 6839.

"LADY JEAN" by George Bellows (1882-1925)
American
Yale University Art Gallery
Bequest of Stephen Carlton Clark, B. A., 1903
For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 4—The Satisfaction of Growth
Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, —Southern Hemisphere: .
Commentary on page 691.
 
"Two Self Portraits" by Rembrandt van Rijn (1606-1669)
Dutch
Portrait of a Young Man—Taft Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio
Self Portrait—National Gallery of Art, Washington D. C.
Paintings on pages 686, 687.
Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University.
For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Reward of Persistence
Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, —Southern Hemisphere: .

The greatest of the Dutch Masters
One of the greatest painters who ever lived
The master of light
One true to himself
Possessed of integrity
Persistent
Followed his "star"
Made the ugly beautiful
No pose—no vanity
Searcher of truth
Dramatic but never theatrical
Valued truth and sincerity above harmony and beauty
Painter of the human soul

He was a successful portrait painter at the age of twenty-five. He married a woman of wealth, bought a house, collected works of art, and painted industriously. After the death of his wife his popularity as a painter of out his lifetime his fame as an artist stood high and has increased through the years, but as one author states, "Fame alone does not suffice to make a livelihood." One reason we know him so well is because of the amazing record of his life he left in his many self portraits—about sixty in oil alone. His face examples of his virtuosity as a master of the brush, but more important,
 
"Snowstorm" by Joseph Mallord William Turner (1775-1851)
British
The National Gallery, London, England
Painting on page 685.
Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University.
For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 5—Appreciation of Beauty
Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, —Southern Hemisphere: .

What is beauty?
"Beauty is truth—truth is beauty."
What is truth—that for which all search, that which, when discovered, strikes a harmonious chord within us, and we experience a spiritual or aesthetic thrill?
Are the works of Joseph Turner beautiful? Are they true?

Joseph M. W. Turner

Turner, the London-born artist, lover of the sea, world traveler, romanticist and innovator, was and still is a controversial figure. Important critics have differed intensely in their reaction to his works. Some acclaim him as a forerunner of our present expressionistic art and one who inspired the impressionists. John Ruskin, essayist, art critic and contemporary of Turner's, was greatly inspired by him. In the essay from Modern Painters printed in the lesson, Ruskin puts into words what he believed Turner was saying in paint. Implied in the essay is the idea that instead of painting the obvious, Turner chose an unusual moment and dramatized it forcefully, using an exaggerated splendor of light and movement to portray a truth. His great experience with the sea and as a sailor gave him a certain authority. It is said that at one time he asked the sailors to lash him to the mast during a terrific storm at sea so that he could experience the power and majesty of the elements. He was tied there for four hours before they could release him. This experience inspired "The Snowstorm." Another writer, Julius Meier-Graefe in his book Modern Art, 1908, was less impressed with Turner's paintings and has this to say: "To pile things up! This became Turner's principle more and more as the years passed by. To bring together as many things as a frame would hold, then to shake them up vigorously, and leave the rest to Ruskin!" There is no doubt that Turner's paintings were different from any at his time and prior to it, that they radiate an emotional quality and an excitement of color and motion bathed in light not known before. They exclude use of realistic detail and one stands in awe at his concept of light. Do his paintings strike a chord of harmony within you? Do you see what you sense to be true? We leave you to decide—what is truth? What is beauty? Is it in the eye of the beholder?
 
"**Lady Jean** by George Bellows (1882-1925) American Yale University Art Gallery Bequest of Stephen Carlton Clark, B. A., 1903. Painting on page 688. Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 4—The Satisfaction of Growth Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, —Southern Hemisphere: 

We can be sure of one thing. That is change. Nothing remains static. Whether change means growth is a matter of question. Growth implies a movement toward a better or more ideal state or situation. History is a record of this change and art history reflects this change in some tangible form. The paintings of George Bellows reflect changes in a growing America. It is for you to decide whether or not this change is growth.

During the late 19th and early 20th centuries, a group of artists who called themselves "The Eight" wished to get away from the repetitious and sentimental in landscape and figure painting. They painted uninhibited scenes of life in the streets or crowded tenements of the big city, claiming that this was real life. They were self-termed American realists. Although George Bellows was not one of "The Eight," he admired them and was a friend of most of them. He chose similar subject matter and worked in the same manner—rebelling against the academic and trite. His subjects covered many facets of the changing American life—city streets, sports, romantic landscapes, and, in his later mature life, character portraits. He never went to Europe to study, as was common practice among artists at that time, but treated his subject matter in an expressive technique with bold draftsmanship, slashing strokes, and heavy paint. His remarkable visual memory made it possible for him to work rapidly to give a strong impression of actuality.

In the painting "Lady Jean," we see the artist's younger daughter dressed in her mother's "grown-up" clothes. It has a nostalgic quality for most of us because we remember our own experiences at that age or because we see our own children dressing up and imitating adults. Although much less dramatic and active than his paintings of prize fights and the rugged reality of his time, it is appealing in its youthful beauty—one of the best loved paintings in American art history.

The great artist (Bellows in this example) finds beauty and truth in the commonplace and paints it so that we almost feel as if it is our own discovery. As one writer so aptly put it, most discoveries are "suddenly seen things that were always there."
 
 A LITTLE WALK ALONG THE UPPER PROVO RIVER (UTAH) (continued from page 677)

In the course of another round of nature, it seems to be nothing at all, except for the picture. But nothing? If a colony of lichen is destroyed, another one immediately begins to take its place. Over an eon of time the guest may completely destroy the host. Neither the fungus nor its symbiotic partner—the algae—can live without the other member. The fungus makes no chlorophyll. The algae produces the green coloring matter from which sugar is derived, and thus protein, as essential to plant life as to animal. The lichen provides water and dissolved minerals, which it has derived from the host (not always rock). This is probably the only case in nature where one name refers to two organisms.

From the chlorophyll is produced the exquisite cocoa-brown shade of our "pansies," with their brightly tinted hearts, as beautiful as the dyes made from lichen by primitive peoples. From the minute lichen cups—seen in the picture with a small hand-glass that magnifies only sixteen times—the filaments are working on the stone, gradually prying away microscopic particles and dissolving them. The cast-off portion of the filaments and the rock, together with blown dust, create tiny nests for seeds and roots which lead to multiple forms of flora. Thus the plant is called the "pioneer of vegetation and soil formation." It has eaten away at the great volcanic plateau of Norway until in the infinite variety of plant life that has ensued, the beveled landbase of the mountain walls bursts into bloom in the long sunlit hours of summer.

On the Provo River bank flowered a clump of Onagraceae, the willow herb, or fireweed. Long ago, in a flash of illumination, I suddenly sensed the relation of the dry, tan, cottony fruit of the fireweed to the deep rose-colored bloom. That was fun, because in those days botany had not taught me the complete work of the round, the autumn work of the fairies.

In the reflected light of the stream, spires of foxglove were lending their elfin bells to butterfly and bee. One root of this Penstemon cyananthus can produce any number of stems. A burst of sunlight brightened the flower, which will hardly photograph at all without sufficient light. The forest opened for a patch of blue in sky and water to make the pond picture. Its companion was the field of all but universal goldenrod Solidago.

Walking either in solitude or with friends is clearly enhanced when the lens of evening makes the "impossible" picture. Lowly? A scent-laden path?

A plunging mountain stream with its rivulets? Can anything in nature be lowly?

THE WONDER OF BULBS (continued from page 680)
The May flowering Darwins and the Hybrid Darwins, probably the most popular today. The Parrot tulips provide fluted petals and unexpected combinations of joy to every flower lover. Even more outstanding and new are the Bouget tulips.

Joy to every flower lover.
Even more outstanding and new are the bouquet tulips. These produce as many as ten blossoms on a branching stem from one bulb. In each group, there are many colors and varieties. Most tulips do best in year-to-year blooming if planted from six to eight inches deep, but read the fine print of your directions and fit your plantings to your own soil and climate. Be sure to cultivate the soil below the bulb so that its roots can take hold.

Do not make your tulips march in a line. They love company, so plant them in clusters of at least three. Their place in your garden will be much more effective if you plant them in beds, and they will be easier to care for.

Lavish displays of cannas, lilies, dahlias, and gladioli are the pride of summer. In some areas, it is best to plant them in the spring because they are very sensitive to frost. As a rule, set them from five to six inches deep and without artificial fertilizer. In areas where the winter is cold these bulbs must be dug in the fall, dried, and stored in a cool, dark place for next year's planting. A NURSERY FOR LOVING CARE (continued from page 678)
This project, and pleasure in the eyes of the sisters who viewed the nursery for the first time. The delight of the family of Sister Edna McCullough, in what we had done with their mother's money, and the happiness of the children as they enjoyed their new play room, encouraged us to say, If you would like happiness, joy, and deep satisfaction, then plan a project of redecorating a nursery. Sister Tippett's counselors are Kathryn Welling and Clarice Christensen.

CHORE CHART (continued from page 679)
Make initials for the children's names from felt, and glue them on the bottom set of pockets, or embroider the names. The lower pockets will be for work assignments, and the pockets immediately above will be for the record of completion of the work. The word "Chores" may be appliqued above the top set of pockets. The charts may be decorated with crewel embroidery and appliqué. Patterns may be created or taken from commercial designs.

Appliqué of birds, animals, flowers, or other motifs, cut from felt, make colorful and attractive adornments. A combination of appliqué and embroidery will be effective and colorful. After the appliqué and crewel embroidery have been completed, insert the dowel in the casing. Make a cord for hanging the chart by chain stitching some of the yarn used for making the tassels or use a commercial cord or piece of trim. This should be about two feet long. Attach to each end of the dowel and stitch a tassel at the upper corners of the chart. Several tassels may also be attached to the bottom of the chart.

Such tassels are more pleasing to children if they are in a color different from the burlap used in making the chart.

To Use
Make a list of chores to be done, and cut the list into strips so that each chore is on a separate piece of paper, and place them in the bottom pockets for the children to take out and read, or, in case of the younger children, pictures showing them what to do. As each chore is completed, the child places the slip of paper in the pocket directly above the one with his name on it. Then the mother can see what has been done merely by checking the slips of paper in the upper pocket.

The children feel a spirit of competitiveness, because each one can see who has done his chores and who has not. There is no limit to the colors and design that can be used, and the charts make attractive family gifts at Christmas and they are also, economical and popular bazaar items.

(