Suffer the little children! The words had become almost a slogan, synonymous with the hospital. Soon there would be a good supply of women to relieve the load of the regular nurses, and women more capable than she, were ready to take over to keep the program alive. Again she remembered Robbie. At least six homes within the family loved him and wanted him. He was surrounded by all the good things of life, contrasting completely with his less fortunate counterparts at the hospital.

Whom did Betty, or Sally, or 694 Dickie or the rest of them have? Most of them were the forgotten misfortunes of busy families.

Wearily, Bertha rested her head on her arms as she leaned forward on the steering wheel. The warmth of the sun shining through the windshield relaxed her tense, aching shoulders. Faintly she heard babies crying. Her own babies fat and pink and perfect. She saw Will's face lighted with pride and love.

Then the pitiful noises—she had become so familiar with enveloped her, the children clung to her hands, her skirt, they wrapped their arms around her legs. The crying was incessant. Apart from the others, seated on the floor and surrounded by expensive toys was a little boy. It was Robbie, crying quietly, unheard and unnoticed in the noise-filled room.

His husky little body slumped, so dejected and lifeless that Bertha tried to free herself to go to him. But the children held her fast. Frantically, she looked around. Where was the nurse? Why didn't someone help the child?

Bertha stirred restlessly. She was cold. Suddenly, she jerked awake, her dazed mind struggling between the dream and the reality of where she was.

Relief replaced fear, her heart stopped pounding as the afternoon shadows spreading across the ground became wonderfully familiar.

"Oh, thank goodness, I was dreaming!" She looked at her watch. She had slept an hour. It was late, yet she sat still, the sounds of the dream echoing in her mind. For the first time her attention centered, not on Robbie the noisy, mischievous little intruder, but on Robbie... The child. Robust and spoiled he was, but very young and vulnerable. His world had been snatched away before he had had time to get acquainted with it. Were his needs less because he had no handicap? Could she, with a clear conscience, refuse to help him establish a new world?

Bertha started the car. Within a few minutes she was standing in her living room, making mental notes. Will's hoarse cough hurried her into the bedroom.

"Hello, dear." She kissed his cheek and stepped back for a critical look at him.

"Well, you look better anyway."

Will laid his book aside and moved his legs to make room for her to sit on the bed.

"I was beginning to worry, did you have trouble?"

Suffer the Little Children

Anticipating the reason for his concern, Bertha interrupted,

"No no, the old car seems to be holding her own. I drove out to the park for awhile. The women were very enthusiastic."

She paused and studied her husband thoughtfully.

"Will, how much would it cost to remodel the basement?"

"Why? Now Bertha, you're not thinking of opening a clinic?" 

Bertha's laughter filled the room.

"Well, not exactly. I was thinking more in terms of a miniature gymnasium. Robbie will need a place to expend some of his energy, and we can't allow him to use the new sofa for a trampoline."

"Bertha, you're one in a million!"

Enfolded in her husband's embrace, Bertha's soul sang with the contentment of one task well done and another begun.