[WomansExponent | Vol2 | 1873 | December | Issue: 14 | Title: HUMOROUS. | Author: Unknown]

HUMOROUS.

	A HEAD-wind—A sneeze.
	SKY-LIGHTS—Sun, moon and stars.
	YOUNG LADIES economy—never throw
away a good match.
	A GOOD-NATURED spinster used to boast
that she always had two good beaux; they
were elbows.
	Jones got trusted for that hat, and he now
feels a consciousness of being in debt, “over
head and ears.”
	A POLITICAL Orator, speaking of a cer-
tain general whom he admired, said he was
always on the field of battle where the bul-
lets were the thickest.
	“Where was that?"
	“In the ammunition wagon."
	A QUAKER gentleman riding in a carriage
with a fashionable lady decked with a pro-
fusion of jewelry, heard her complain of the
cold. Shivering in her lace bonnet and
shawl as light as a cobweb, she exclaimed,
“What shall I do to get warm?" "I really
don’t know,” replied the Quaker, solemnly’
“unless thee should put on another breast-
pin.”
	AN ENGLISH officer was present with the
King of Prussia at a review of his gigantic
regiment: “Would an equal number of your
Englishmen beat my guards?” asked his
Majesty. “I dont know, sire; but half the
number would try."
	A WEALTHY parvenu lately gave the
church which he attends two tablets of stone,
with the Ten Commandments engraved
upon them; whereupon a witty lady mem-
ber of the church remarked that his reason
for giving away the Commandments was
that he could'nt keep them.


The Erie Canal is closed!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LIFE.

There's a poison drop in the purest cup.
That earth born mortals are doomed to sup;
There are piercing thorns on the brightest rose,
Which beauty and fragrance on earth bestows.

There are darts of death in the fleecy clouds,
And they're changed too oft into deathly shrouds
As they gather in storms on the ocean wide,
Where thousands are sunk in its foaming tide.

The brightest smiles and most joyous throbs
Change alas! too often to tears and sobs;
And aching hearts in deep anguish cry
As their shattered idols in ruins lie.

The frost still kills the fairest flower,
And the sunshine's hid by the passing shower,
And flinty stones the pathway line,
That leads to the haven of love's pure shrine.

Yet would you shrink from the nectar's brink
Afraid of the poison deep to drink;
Or withdraw your hand from the blushing rose,
When pierced by the thorn that near it grows?

Would you bid the thunder cease to roll
And silence the death knell's solemn toll?
These bid the poisoned mists depart,
And life and vigor anew impart.

Would you cease to smile because tears are shed,
Because joy so oft is to sorrow wed?
If idols are shattered and torn away,
we will find them again in the Brighter Day.

Would ye cease to sow the germs of life,
Because the seeds of death are rife?
Or cease to seek for love's pure shrine?
Life's thorns are planted by hands divine.

Howe'er so bitter may seem the cup,
'Tis a voice of love that bids us sup;
And a gentle hand will guide us still,
If we but bend our own, wild will.

Our will to His, our God and Friend,
Who doth love's purest blessings send;
And guides us in the narrow way,
That leads to Life's Eternal Day.
							HOPE.


[Column 1]
	       
