In Profound Appreciation of All My Misfortunes By Isaac B. Ball
ON December 11, 1919, the little town of Enterprise, Alabama, erected the most unusual monument of which I have ever heard. It was a monument to the boll weevil, that notorious crop pest which brought alarming havoc to Alabama, and in fact to all the cotton growing states of the South. Here are the very words engraven on this monument by the very citizens who were victims of this voracious insect marauder: "In profound appreciation of the Boll Weevil and what it has done as Herald of prosperity, this monument is erected by the citizens of Enterprise, Alabama."
Likewise, I personally would erect a monument to the misfortunes and the difficulties that have strewn my pathway through life thus far, and that have brought such havoc and suffering to my feelings and peace of mind. I would erect a monument to my calamities and defeats in profound appreciation of what they have done as "heralds" of deeper inner growths and of higher upward strivings. And I write this in the full conviction that my own experience is but one common to human life in general.
After the scourge of the Mexican cotton boll weevil had come to Enterprise, Coffee County, Alabama, and had shaken its citizens out of the ruts of narrow traditional cropping systems and soil destroying practices, and had set them upon the highroad to better and more lucrative farming procedures, this community began to realize that what had seemed to be unmitigated loss and misfortune was in truth a blessing in disguise.
So also have I, in common, with almost every one else, in his own particular life, lived to see my losses and heart-breaking failures turn out to be friends and trainers for a better life than I had known before was possible for me.
"Of all possible universes in which to live, this one is seven times the worst"?thus have I sworn many times when the going was tough, and thus has many another distraught soul. But afterwards have I sensed the truth in these lines,
My name is Defeat?but through the bitter fight, To those who know, I'm something more than friend: For I can build beyond the wrath of might, And drive all yellow from the blend: For those who quit, I am the final blow, But for the brave who seek their chance to learn, I show the way, at last, beyond the foe, To where the scarlet flames of triumph burn.
"Where the scarlet flames of triumph burn"?anything that can bring you or me to that place of heart's desire deserves our tribute and perhaps a grateful monument. And the particular fellow that can do that for any one is?Defeat. Good old Defeat! Good old Trouble! Good old Hard Luck! Good old Sorrow! All these that we fear and shrink from so naturally prove to be true friends, a bit gruff, 'tis true, but IN PROFOUND APPRECIATION 543 still a good, none-better, group of trainers for the real battles of life.
SWEET are the uses of adversity." They bring us benefits otherwise lost. To be droopy because of them is foolish. Showers alternate with sunshine, sorrows with pleasures, pain and weariness with comfort and rest; but the wise accept the one as necessary as the other and learn to enjoy both.