A Little Trip to Yellowstone Park By Ida R. Alldredge
THE dream of years was to be realized. I was actually to see that mystery of the ages, "The Yellow Stone Park." But how different was the real thing to the picture that I had carried in my mind. My wildest fancies had but feebly portrayed the scene which was now before me.
For miles we had traveled beneath the majestic pines standing as sentinels guarding the way of the weary traveler. Stopping to rest almost at the very gates we spent the night in a rustic log cabin on the banks of a beautiful stream which was lined on either side with rushes and gigantic trees. The cry of the hoot-owl only added to the beauty of the place. Loathe to leave this peaceful spot we hastened on hardly knowing what to expect at our journey's end, but thrilled with the beauties of nature which surrounded us.
After entering the gates we again traveled through the whispering pines whose feet laved in the cool water of the Snake river. Suddenly from the center of the stream there spouted, high into the air, a stream of boiling water rising and falling in rhythmic measure. Threading our way through a forest, with a carpet of green on either side, we passed small groves of trees standing naked before us, their huge white trunks gleaming in the sunlight while their bare arms pointed towards the heaven, as if asking a final benediction. Far up the mountainside smoke curled higher and higher. Or was it smoke? No, just another geyser sending forth its steaming spray.
In a clearing not far from the road we beheld a magic picture. The earth was arrayed in gorgeous colors?yellow, orange, green, blue and pink, with varied shades of purple, all bathed in the warm waters from an outlet far above, while to the side a pool of mammoth size reflected the rainbow hues.
Continuing upon our way we were suddenly aware of a rumbling, as if a thunderstorm were approaching, but this time it came from the bowels of the earth. One hardly knew but that it might open at his very feet and claim him for its prey.
ONE of the most beautiful pictures of the entire trip was the "Morning Glory Pool," which lay peacefully upon the bosom of the earth. Shaped as the blossom from which it derived its name, its dainty pink blended into the delicate blue, the shadows cast deeper shades into its unfathomable depths.
The punch bowl with its scalloped edges rising about a foot above the ground is also well named. Its bubbling contents makes one wonder if it never tires of its perpetual motion. We turned from this to the paint pots. They too bubble but unlike the punch bowl the contents is thick and muddy.
After going a short distance farther we were attracted by a loud roaring and in a moment we were standing, looking in awe at what is called the "Dragon's Mouth." We heard the rising and falling of the water within the mighty chasm of the mountain, dashing against its walls and then with a mighty roar spitting it forth as A LITTLE TRIP TO YELLOWSTONE PARK 545 if happy to rid itself of something unclean. One longs to gaze into that huge chasm and study the forces that threaten to destroy and rip from its foundation the mountain which shields it.
Hesitatingly we left this fascinating monster to view its neighbor, the "Mud geyser," that claimed as one of its victims a chubby cherub, who answered the call of his childish questionings and helplessly yielded to its diabolical force. It belches, then swallows with a monotonous regularity. We shook ourselves free from its uncanny influence and hastened on our way lest it overtake us and lure us into its terrible embrace.
Again we stood upon a heaving structure of earth, rent in twain by countless smaller eruptions and we seemed to actually feel the earth shake beneath our feet. Everywhere the earth has opened up and hot water belches forth unmindful of its visitors who dare not trust their host.
TIME pressed but we must not leave until we had paid our respect to "Old Faithful," which rises to a height of over a hundred and fifty feet in unfailing regularity, measuring the hours year by year. As a last farewell we stopped to view the river which through countless ages has cut its way through mighty gorges leaping into the chasms thousands of feet below. Purple shadows play upon the gigantic cliffs on either side. Step by step we descended into the deepening shadows until we stood beneath the waterfall, sheltered from the foamy spray.
We left the park behind just as evening's curtains closed about us and folded us in the mantle of the night. The clouds hung heavy in the sky sending forth their tears, when lo! A magic rainbow spanned the heavens giving us hope and courage to climb the heights to higher and better things.