[Vol30 | October 1943 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society War and Welfare Activities General Secretary-Treasurer Vera W. Pohlman]
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEOCTOBER 1943 health. (At the present time he is serving as recorder of the Manti Temple.) The younger Carpenter rejoiced to find his brother perfectly normal and inquired as to the reason of his mother's anxiety.
Joseph and his friends explained the Gospel to George, who readily accepted the message and applied for baptism. Imagine Mrs. Carpenter's concern when she learned that her youngest son, so dear to her heart, had likewise joined this unpopular group!
George made friends quickly, and was a general favorite among the young people.
While living at the home of Parley P. Pratt, he became acquainted with Brother Pratt's granddaughter, Louise Ridges. She was a beautiful and accomplished gitl, Young Carpenter, in due time, fell in love with Louise and made her his bride. Louise Ridges Carpenter also has an interesting background.
Besides being the granddaughter of Parley P. Pratt, whose gifts and talents are familiar to Latter-day Saints, she was also the daughter of Joseph P. Ridges, formerly of England and Australia, who built the original Tabernacle organ. She could tell man interesting tales of the building of that great organ and laughingly claimed a hand in its completion. Her mother, Agatha Pratt Ridges, made the glue that was used to fit the organ pipes together. She followed a recipe furnished by her husband, the main ingredients of which were horse and cow hoofs. The glue had to simmer and stew for quite a long period on the back of the Ridges' stove, and the smell was extremely offensive; but because they couldn't make the glue without the odor, the Ridges family accepted the ordeal and kept the pot constantly hot. The glue had to be carried to the Tabernacle hot or it wouldn't stick properly. It was the duty of little Louise to make many trips to the Tabernacle to deliver the hot glue to her father.
Every time she took him his lunch pail, a bucket of glue accompanied it.
George and Louise were a happy young couple. 'The young Mrs.
Carpenter made a charming home for them. She was artistic, intelligent, resourceful, and energeticall qualities that make for ideal home management.
Soon after the birth of their first child, a daughter Florence, George Carpenter was called on a mission to England.
After making plans for the care of his lovely wife and daughter during his absence, he left for his homeland.
With gratitude in his heart that his call was to England, he eagerly looked forward to receiving a warm welcome at his mother's home. He was overjoyed at the thought of teaching the Gospel in person to his family and friends. Naturally, his first call was at his mother's home. The door was closed against him. His mother later consented to meet him in a secluded section of a public park. She arrived in her elegant carriage with the shades drawn so that no one would recognize her. She admitted George to the carriage and ordered it driven along unfrequented lanes. She told him that he had humiliated and disgraced his family by joining the