[Vol30 | October 1943 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Importance of the Smith]
The Frontispiece
THE picture, "The Landing of Columbus on San Salvador" by Vanderlyn, is used as the frontispiece of this Magazine. The New World will celebrate, on October 12, the 451 anniversary of the discovery of America by Christopher Columbus. The following quotation from the Book of Mormon tells of a man who "went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land":
And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles who was separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters; and I beheld the Spirit of God, that it came down and wrought upon the man; and he went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land.
The Prophet Joseph Smith once compared himself to Columbus when he said: "I break the ground; I lead the way like Columbus...."

The Cover
"THE TEMPLE WALL" T. J. Howells, M. D.
Surrounding the Temple grounds in Salt Lake City and a very important part of the landscape is a tall massive structure known as the "Temple Wall." The building of the wall, begun as a make-work project in the fall of 1852, was completed five years later. The architect of the wall was Truman O. Angell. The structure gives an appearance of strength, solidity, and utility, all of which is characteristic of early pioneer building. Not only does the wall enclose various edifices dear to the hearts of Latter-day Saints, including the Salt Lake Temple, the Salt Lake Tabernacle, and the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, but it encloses the block from which the streets in Salt Lake City radiate and the principal ones receive their names. The wall is artistic and forms a beautiful background for flowers which bloom in rich profusion within the grounds of Temple Square.
Editor's note: The cover photograph is by Dr. T. J. Howells. The cover arrangement is by Evan Jensen.
VOL. 30, NO.  OCTOBER 1943

Importance of the Sacrament Meeting
Elder Joseph Fielding Smith Member of the Council of the Twelve
AT the conclusion of the Passover supper on the night of the betrayal, Jesus introduced the sacrament. It is recorded in Luke:
And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake it, and gave unto them, saying, This is my body which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me.
Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood, which is shed for you.
In this manner the sacred and holy ordinance of the sacrament was introduced. This ordinance was not intended merely for the apostles, but for all the members of the Church, and it was the custom of the ancient saints to meet often for this purpose, as they were commanded.
Then came the days of apostasy when this simple and holy ordinance was turned into a feast which brought from Paul a rebuke because the sacrament had been turned into a supper of revelry and drunkenness. The sacrament is not a "supper" although it has become the custom to refer to it as such. In Paul's rebuke and instruction to the Corinthian saints, he said:
For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, That the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread:
And when he had given thanks, he brake it, and said, Take, eat; this is my body, which is broken for you: this do in remembrance of me.
After the same manner also he took the cup, when he had supped, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood: this do ye, as oft as ye drink it, in remembrance of me.
For as often as ye eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye do shew the Lord's death till he come.
Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink this cup of the Lord, unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord.
But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread, and drink of that cup.
Page 589
590
For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body.
For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. (I Cor. 11: 23-30.)
When the Gospel was restored, the Lord commanded the members of the Church to observe this sacred ordinance in all solemnity. In a revelation given on August 7, 1831, He said:
Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things.
Thou shalt offer a sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in righteousness, even that of a broken heart and a contrite spirit.
And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day;
For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; (D. & C. 59:7-10.)
The partaking of these emblems constitutes one of the most holy and sacred ordinances in the Church, an ordinance which has replaced the slaying and eating of the paschal lamb which was typical of the sacrifice upon the cross of our Redeemer, given to Israel in Egypt, and in remembrance of the great sacrifice which was, to them, future. From the time of the exodus from Egypt to the crucifixion of our Redeemer, the Israelites were commanded to observe the passover at a certain time each year. On the solemn night before the crucifixion the Lord changed this ordinance and gave in its stead the sacrament. We have been commanded to meet often, not merely once each year, and go to the house of prayer and there remember our Redeemer and make covenant with
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEOCTOBER 1943
Him in partaking oft of this holy ordinance.
The sacrament meeting is the most sacred and the most important meeting required of all the members of the Church. If any of the members are not in good standing; if they have in their hearts any feeling of hatred, envy, sin of any kind, they should not partake of these emblems. If there are any differences or feelings existing between brethren, these differences should be adjusted before the guilty parties partake; otherwise they will eat and drink unworthily and bring upon them the condemnation spoken of by Paul. We should all see that "our hearts and ways are clean and pure."
Those members of the Church who habitually absent themselves from the sacrament meeting and who do not enter into the covenants which the sacrament requires of them, are guilty of grievous sin and are under grave condemnation. The Spirit of the Lord cannot dwell in them and they deny to themselves the guidance of that Spirit. Willful and protracted absence is a sign of apostasy, and if persisted in will lead to faultfinding, disagreement with authorities and misunderstanding and criticism of the doctrines of the Church. If such a course is continued, it will lead those who are guilty out of the Church, for the Spirit of the Lord cannot be their companion when they show indifference to this sacred commandment.
I HAVE often wondered if we fully realize the significance and importance of the covenants we make in partaking of these emblems in remembrance of the body and blood of Jesus Christ. It is our duty to carefully and thoughtfully consider the nature of these prayers when we hear them offered in our meetings. There are four very important things we covenant to do each time we partake of these emblems, and in partaking, there is the token that we subscribe fully to the obligations, and thus they become binding upon us. These are as follows:
1. We eat in remembrance of the body of Jesus Christ, promising that we will always remember His wounded body slain upon the cross.
2. We drink in remembrance of the blood which was shed for the sins of the world, which atoned for the transgression of Adam, and which frees us from our own sins on condition of our true repentance.
3. We covenant that we will be willing to take upon us the name of the Son and always remember Him. In keeping this covenant we promise that we will be called by His name and never do anything that would bring shame or reproach upon that name.
4. We covenant that we will keep His commandments which He has given us; not one commandment, but that we will be willing to "live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God." (D. & C. 84:44.)
If we will do these things then we are promised the continual guidance of the Holy Ghost, and if we will not do these things we will not have that guidance.
Again, I have wondered how members of the Church can go to the sacrament service and partake of these emblems, and make these solemn covenants, and then immediately after the close of the meeting go out to some place of amusement, to attend a picture show, a baseball game, or some resort, or to gather at some home to play cards. When any of these things is done the guilty person (or persons) violates this sacred covenant so recently made or renewed. Do they who do this pay so little attention to their obligations that they really do not sense their significance? Or do they think that the Lord in His abundant goodness and mercy will overlook their shortcomings, and do they look upon it as being not a very great sin after all to violate covenants made in this manner? Of course, only those who are guilty are able to answer these questions. The fact remains, however, that when we indulge in habits of this kind we are covenant breakers guilty of offenses, as taught by Paul, of the most serious kind.
Because of these breaches of the commandments, and the violation of covenants thus solemnly taken, many among us are in the same condition as they were in the days of Paul; they are spiritually sick, weak in the faith, and they sleep the spiritual sleep that leads to death.
In offering Himself a sacrifice for sin, our Savior freed the world from the consequences of the transgression of Adam. He was also freeing all men from the consequences of their own sins if they are willing to accept Him as their Redeemer and keep His commandments. It is impossible for weak mortals, and we are all weak, to fully comprehend the extent of the suffering of the Son of God. We cannot realize the price He had to pay. To the Prophet Joseph Smith He said:
For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent;
But if they would not repent, they must suffer even as I;
Which suffering caused myself, even God, the great-
IMPORTANCE OF THE SACRAMENT MEETING 591
592
est of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit: and would that I might not drink the bitter cup and shrink
Nevertheless, glory be to the Father, and I partook and finished my preparations unto the children of men; (D. & C. 19:16-19).
It is, however, within our grasp to know and realize that this excruciating agony of His sacrifice has brought to us the greatest blessing that could possibly be given. Moreover, we are able to realize that this extreme sufferingwhich was beyond the power of mortal man either to accomplish or endurewas undertaken because of the great love which the Father and the Son had for mankind. We are extremely ungrateful to our Father and to His beloved Son when in all humility with "broken hearts and contrite spirits" we are unwilling to keep the commandments. The violation of any divine commandment is a most ungrateful act, considering all that has been accomplished for us through the atonement of our Savior.
The lack of faith on the part of the members of the Church is evidenced in the fact that only one, in about four or five on the average, attends this most important meeting, and in the further fact that in so many places the bishops of wards
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEOCTOBER 1943
seem to think that they have to engage outstanding speakers, and to some extent tickle the ears of the people by speaking and entertainment, at the sacrament services. The primary and outstanding reason why we should attend these services is that we may renew our covenants by partaking of the sacrament. The question, who will speak, is of secondary importance, although it is too frequently considered the first.
Our faith is always measured by our works. If we fully appreciated the many blessings which are ours through the redemption made for us, there is nothing that the Lord could ask of us that we would not anxiously and willingly do. Why cannot we, today, show forth the faith, and thereby gain the happiness, which was had among the Nephites when it was said of them:
... They did walk after the commandments which they had received from their Lord and their God, continuing in fasting and prayer, and in meeting together oft, both to pray and to hear the word of the Lord....
And it came to pass that there was no contention in the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people....
And surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God;...

AUTUMN Edna S. Dustin
The frost is busy retracing the earth With his brilliant colored spray. He has dressed all the trees by the bend in the road In Armenian colors gay.
The trees form in line like a long caravan, The burning wild grass shifts the scenes, And the colored leaves as they gracefully sway Are dancing gypsies, with tambourines.

Marianne C. Sharp Appointed Associate Editor of Relief Society Magazine
President Amy Brown Lyman
THE General Presidency of Relief Society is pleased to announce the appointment, August 1, 1943, of Marianne C. Sharp as associate editor of The Relief Society Magazine.
Mrs. Sharp, wife of Ivor Sharp, manager of KSL, and daughter of President and Mrs. J. Reuben Clark, Jr., has been a member of the Relief Society General Board since its reorganization January 1940. Soon after the appointment of the editor, Belle S. Spafford, as counselor to President Amy Brown Lyman in December 1942, Mrs. Sharp began serving as assistant to the editor. She has given excellent service in this capacity, taking the major responsibility in the selection and preparation of Magazine material. Her editorial ability is not only reflected in recent issues of the Magazine, but also in A Centenary of Relief Society, published by the General Board in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the Society. Mrs. Sharp and Counselor Belle S. Spafford were appointed by the Board to serve as the committee on the preparation of this book. Mrs. Sharp's contribution to the general excellence of the publication was important and valuable.
She has a natural interest in historical happenings, and this book bears evidence of the thoroughness of her re-
MARIANNE C. SHARP
search, her good judgment in evaluating historical events, and the accuracy with which she records historical facts.
Mrs. Sharp received her grade and high school training in Washington, D. C., where the Clark family lived for a number of years. During her senior year in high school, she edited the high school yearbook and school paper. When the family moved from the East to Utah, Marianne entered the University of Utah, where
(Continued on page 613)

she majored in ancient languages, and was graduated with High Honors. In her senior year she was given a teaching fellowship in Latin and continued teaching Latin at the University and Stewart Training School after graduation.
Mrs. Sharp is a staunch, orthodox Latter-day Saint. She knows and understands the doctrines of the Church and is obedient to Church teachings. She has been active in Church auxiliary work, having taught in the Sunday School and Primary organizations, and for one year she served as chairman of the Queen's Branch, New York, Genealogical Committee. She is thoroughly familiar with all phases of Relief Society work. While living in New York for a period of eleven years, she served continuously in the Relief Society, first as literature and theology class leader and then as president of the Queen's Branch Society. Later, when New York Stake was created, she served on the Relief Society stake board and as counselor to President Lorena Fletcher. She also represented Relief Society on the National Woman's Radio Committee.
After returning to Utah from New York, she continued her Relief Society work as literature class leader in the Twentieth Ward of Ensign Stake until she was called to be a member of the General Board.
