[Vol30 | October 1943 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Messages to the Home The Work]

Visiting Teachers Messages to the Home Sources of Strength Lesson 4The Development of Strength Through Work Tuesday, January 4, 1944 WORK, we repeat, is a panacea for the ills of life. It is a source of joy and the price of things most worthwhile, the only path to be pursued that will bring satisfaction and victory to each individual. To quote Carlyle, "Labor is worship," and he declares it to be the greatest discovery beneath the sun. No man nor woman can be truly happy who does not carry some responsibility and do some useful work.
Blessed is the man who has found his work, who can lose himself in it, who gets joy out of it, who comes to it in the morning with gladness in his heart. To quote Proverbs 22:29: "Seest thou a man diligent in his business? He shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men."
There is a well-known story of a farmer who, on his deathbed, called his three idle sons about him to impart to them an important secret. "My sons," said he, "a great treasure is hidden in the estate which I am about to leave to you." The old man gasped.. "Where is it hid?" exclaimed the sons. "I am about to tell you," said the old man. "You will have to dig for it.' But his breath failed him before he could impart the weighty secret, and he died. Forthwith, the sons set to work to spade and dig the long-neglected field, and they turned over every sod and clod upon the estate.
They discovered no treasure, but they learned to work; and when the field was sown and the harvest came, lo, the yield was prodigious, in consequence of the thorough tilling which it had received.
Then it was that they discovered the treasure of which their wise father had advised themit was the yield of the estate from their own labors.
Happiness never resides in what an individual has, but always in what the individual does. "The more a man works, the longer he lives. 'The less he works, the sooner he dies."
There is only one person for whom there is no hope, and that's the idler. "The idler shall not eat the bread of the laborer."
Much work may be required in making a home and keeping it. 'This is often hard and monotonous work, but commonplace as it may seem, it is vitally important.
Home building, in its truest meaning, is one of the greatest of the fine arts. The home is the center of happiness, a source of civilization. Work Thank God for the might of it, The ardor, the urge, the delight of it, Work that springs from the heart's desire Setting the soul and the brain on fire. Oh, what is so good as the heat of it, And what is so glad as the beat of it, And what is so kind as the stern command Challenging brain and heart and hand? Angela Morgan If the Almighty should come to me with complete success in his right hand and cternal struggle in his left, I would choose the left.Socrates. Discussion 1.
What are some of the physical values of work? The psychological, particularly in times of mental or emotional strain? 2.
Give specific instances from Church history in which the importance of work has been emphasized by Church leaders. References Proverbs 31:10-31