[Vol30 | October 1943 | Sequence: 22 | Category: General Feature | Title: Importance of the Sacrament Meeting Elder Joseph Fielding Smith]
Joseph Hatton Carpenter. He enjoyed all of the advantages of a cultured, well-ordered English home. He and his brothers and sisters were given unusually good educations to fit them for the various professions to which they seemed best adapted.
Just as the boys were reaching manhood, their father died, leaving an estate to be divided. The oldest brother, Joseph, took his share of the estate and decided that before settling down he would take a trip around the world. He visited the continents of Europe and Africa, sailed up the east coast of Africa, traveling on to the cities of Asia
SHE IS OURS 599 GLASS TRAY WITH PLASTIC HANDLES, AND GLASS VASE, DESIGNED BY MRS. THORPE and Australia.
From these cities he continued on to South America, and thence to New York City.
While there, he met some Latter-day Saints and missionaries en route to Utah from his native homeland.
Delighted to see some of his own countrymen and interested in their story of the Prophet Joseph Smith, he decided to accompany the Saints to the Salt Lake Valley and learn more about them and their teachings.
Having been raised in a religious home, Joseph was receptive to the Gospel message and was baptized a worthy member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Anxious to share his new-found joy, he wrote to his widowed mother to tell her of his good fortune. She was shocked and grieved over the news. Her first thought was that Joseph had lost his mind, and she immediately set about to do something to rectify his condition. Joseph's brother, George, in the meantime, had decided to take his share of the family fortune and see the world also.
When he reached South Africa, he became interested in the beauty and grace of the feathers of the ostrich. At that particular time ostrich plumes were "highfashioned." The selling of them was extremely lucrative, so George purchased an ostrich farm and settled down to his new and fascinating venture.
Business was good, and he prospered financially. Eventually, however, he received a letter from his heartbroken mother telling of his brother Joseph's sad fate. She plead with George to bring him home to London where he could be properly hospitalized.
George sold his farm and set sail for the United States.
Upon his arrival in Salt Lake City, he found Joseph happy and in the best of 600: