[Vol30 | October 1943 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Pohlman]
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420. RELIEF SOCIETY WAR AND WELFARE ACTIVITIES HE Relief Society annual report for 1942, published in the recent June-July issue of the Magazine, indicated for Relief Societies throughout the Church the extent of war and welfare services by the Society.
Part of this report dealt with Relief Society sewing service at local Relief Society meetingssewing service for the Society and its members, for the Church Welfare Program, and for the Red Cross and other worthy community agencies. 'This report indicated that an average of nearly 29,000 women gave sewing service at each monthly work meeting to the extent of approximately 382,000 hours, during which 116,882 articles were com- | pleted. Of this total number of articles, the greatest number (38,381 or approximately one-third of the total) was made for the Red Cross, with 29,048 being made for Relief Society, 19,446 for bishops' storehouses, and 30,007 for hospitals and all other agencies.
Clothing for children constituted the largest group, according to kinds of articles made.
Next in importance were quilts, which, for one hundred years, have symbolized Relief Society sewing service. It was in the Society's second year, in a meeting held October Page 626 14, 1843, that Phebe M. Wheeler, the assistant secretary, proposed "that a sewing society be appointed that garments and bed clothing may be made and given to such as are suffering cold and nakedness."
Quilts made during 1942 numbered 13,034-and it is expected that quilts made during 1943 will greatly exceed this number, for 1943 is doubtless the greatest quilt-making year so far in Relief Society. In addition to the usual number of quilts made, the Society undertook an assignment by the Church Welfare Committee to fill an assignment in the ratio of one quilt to every one hundred Church members, these quilts to be turned into bishops' storehouses. In addition, the General Board of Relief Society recommended that all Societies in war risk areas provide themselves with ward first-aid supplies, including 12 quilts or blankets. Furthermore, the General Board also suggested that a final check be made to discover whether all families were adequately supplied with bedding, and urged that encouragement and assistance be given to help families complete their bedding supplies.
Many stake and ward Relief Societies had already conducted bedding projects for the benefit of families with- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 627 OVER 100 QUILTS WERE DISPLAYED AT THIS RELIEF SOCIETY QUILTING IN THE EMERY WARD, EMERY STAKE, 1943 in their boundaries. 'The following reports from wards and stakes reflect the activities of the Society with respect to the quilt-making project for the Church Welfare Program, the bedding plans for the benefit of members, Red Cross sewing, and other war Services. Emery Stake (Utah) MYRLE B. JOHANSEN, stake secretary-treasurer, recently wrote as follows: "A suggestion given in one of the bulletins from the General Board that Relief Societies encourage their members to repair | and make new bedding, while materials were available, resulted in a most profitable project in the Emery Ward of our stake. "They called it the 'Help One Another Project,' and every woman in the ward was invited to participate. The project covered a period of two and one-half months, and' approximately 3,246 hours were spent in quilting. Over 158 quilts were made. At the time the accompanying picture was taken, over 100 quilts were displayed. Six quilts were made for Church Welfare at one time, and over eighty women were present.
Light refreshments were served at every quilting. Wynona Petty is president of the Emery Ward. "At the present time, this ward has a very worthy summer project for their visiting teachers.
Each month a social is given in every district, at the home of a widow, a service star mother, or an aged sister. The program is made up by those living in the district and many participate who have not had the privilege of doing so before." Los Angeles Stake (California) EMMA LYM, secretary of the Beverly Hills Ward, reports: "Our Relief Society anniversary celebration was a success in every respect. An old-fashioned quilting party was held on March 11. A pleasant program was presented during the quilting and a luncheon served. On March 17 a number of our members went to the Red Cross Blood Bank and gave blood donations. It was felt that no better way could be found to adequately commemorate the anniversary of the Society. "For our closing party the entire group reported at the Red Cross center at the El Rodeo School in Beverly Hills on June 3. The morning was spent preparing surgical dressings and rolling bandages. The women found it an enjoyable as well as useful occupation. Lach _ sister brought a box lunch and at noon adjourned to Roxbury Park.
Here lunches were exchanged and enjoyed.
After lunch an informal program was presented for the pleasure of all present. "We are happy to report that these activities of small service have been highly successful in increasing the spirit of cooperation and friendship among the members of Beverly Hills Ward." Young Stake (New Mexico) EMMA B. EVANS, president of the very small Relief Society at Shiprock, New Mexico, reported in June: "We have made quilts and dresses and sold them in the store here. We have made molasses taffy, popcorn balls, etc., and sold them to the sweet-hungry school children. By May 26, which we had set as our $100 goal, we had purchased $100 worth of war bonds and sold quilts and two dresses besides. We have six members." Navajo-Zuni Mission (New Mexico) EMMA B. EVANS of Shiprock was recently appointed with her husband, President Ralph William Evans, to preside over the new Navajo-Zuni Mission.
When she wrote in June, there were no organized Relief Societies among these Indian women, but many of them who were interested were assisting with the Sunday School and Primary Association meetings, and doing missionary work. She reported as follows her visit to Crystal, New Mexico, "away up in the tops of the mountains" where the only full-time missionary was stationed: "This lady missionary had taught the Navajo women to make quilts. I wish you could see the two quilt tops they have made. One is put together with bright green and the other with a very bright yellow. The quilt blocks are perfect, every color blended and stitched as perfectly as their Navajo blankets are made.
Instead of cutting their blocks as they would come on the material, the conventional flower design was in the center of each diamond, giving it an appliqued effect.
Their faces shone when I told them that I would send the cotton for the first one, and how lovely they were.
They intend to make and sell enough quilts to buy an organ or piano for their little church. "You would thnill with pride if you were to see the little one-roomed church which they reconditioned with the help of Jim Collyer, the Mormon trader there. It has a good floor, newly painted walls, good benches, bright Navajo colors at the neatly curtained windows. Our visit was unexpected, but vases of evergreen and flowers adorned tables and 

 OCTOBER 1943 NOTES FROM THE FIELD windows, and Brother Polocca was on hand to take charge of the meeting.
This new member has full charge since there are no missionaries there now.
Just lately a protestant church there had six missionaries holding revival meetings, but this staunch new member held his ground and carried on in face of great opposition." Shelley Stake (Idaho) SADIE KIRKHAM, stake sewing leader, at the request of Annie B. Johnsen, stake Relief Society president, reported in 1942: "In one Relief Society bedding project we have quilted 410 quilts.
People who could afford to do so paid for the work, and the money was used to buy quilts and blankets for those who could not afford to pay.
Then the stake Relief Society cooperated in a government mattress project. We made 207 mattresses.
Through the applications for mattresses we learned the real needs of the people in our stake better than we could have found out in any other way. It has been a big undertaking, but we have enjoyed the satisfaction of knowing we have helped people to have warm bedding who have never had it before, and we surely need it in Idaho." Southern Arizona Stake (Arizona) GLADYS E. HUISH, president of Southern Arizona Stake Relief Society, reported in 1942 details of this stake's bedding project: "First, we decided to ask each member to 629 have enough bedding on hand to last for five years and gave them a suggestive list to go by. To help the women with their quilts, each ward organization offered to quilt one quilt without charge for each member who would prepare and furnish her own material; some wards quilted one and tied one for each member. Of course, there were some who did not need any quilts made and a few who could not afford to buy materials. For the latter, the association bought the material and quilted the quilts. We suggested for the sheets and slips that they take advantage of the layaway plan early before prices were raisedwhich many did. We made each ward president responsible for her own members. "When we took a survey early in October, we found that 70 per cent of our women had enough bedding for 5 years, many others for 3 years, some for only one, and a very few who hadn't done anything. Our presidents will still work with these few. "In order to get so many quilts quilted most of the wards met regularly in work meetings each Tuesday allsummer.
Some held all-day work meetings every Tuesday. For our clothing project we asked the families to try to have enough clothes besides the ones they were wearing to last children for one year, and adults for two years. 'To help them with this, we submitted a suggestive list to go by.
