[Vol30 | October 1943 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Stories from the Book of]

Stories from the Book of Mormon For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science lessons.
Lesson 3Nephi, a Leader in the Land of Promise Tuesday, January 25, 1944
Note: For the full effect of this lesson it is imperative that the teacher and class have at hand the Book of Mormon. Lesson Objective: To show the rewards of righteousness. EPHI, the son of Lehi, was truly a great leader and a man of faith. Of him it can be said, he sought first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all things were added unto him (Matt. 6:33). He - had learned in the tender years of his youth to honor his parents, and therefore he found it not hard to believe the accounts his father told of visions received from God.
This parental example of seeking out the Lord led Nephi also to desire a direct answer to his prayers, with the result that God revealed himself unto Nephi and explained to him the need for a Savior and the necessity of a plan of salvation.
Other things too were made.
Known to Nephi. He was told he should become a ruler and a teacher of his brethren, and that he would be given charge of the sacred records of his people.
These records were to be of great importance in the latter days in convincing both Jew and Gentile of the mission of the Messiah.
Concerning the establishment, by Nephi, of a new nation in a new world, we read: "And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did guide the ship, that we sailed again towards the promised land. And it came to pass that after we had sailed for the space of many days we did arrive at the promised land; and we went forth upon the land, and did pitch our tents; and we did call it the promised land. And it came to pass that we did begin to till the earth, and we began to plant seeds; yea, we did put all our seeds into the earth, which we had brought from the land of Jerusalem. And...
They did grow exceedingly; wherefore, we were blessed in abundance. And it came to pass that we did find upon the land of promise, as we journeyed in the wilderness, that there were beasts in the forests of every kind, both the cow and the ox, and the ass and the horse, and the goat and the wild goat, and all manner of wild animals, which were for the use of men. And as we did find all manner of ore, both of gold, and of silver, and of copper" (I Nephi 18:22-25). At another period sometime later, when there had been a division of the original group who landed upon the shores of the New World, Nephi wrote of those over whom he had been called to preside: "And I did teach my people to build buildings, and to work in all manner of wood, and of iron, and of copper, and of brass, and of steel, and of gold, and of silver, and of precious ores, which were in great abundance. And I, Nephi, did build a temple; and I did construct it after the manner of the temple of Solomon save it were not built of so many precious things; for they were not to be found upon the land, wherefore, it could not be built like unto Solomon's temple. But the manner of the construction was like unto the temple of Solomon; and the workmanship thereof was exceeding fine. And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cause my people to be industrious, and to labor with their hands. And it came to pass that they would that I should be their king. But I, Nephi, was desirous that they should have no king; nevertheless, I did for them accord- 

 OCTOBER 1943 LESSON DEPARTMENT ing to that which was in my power" (II Nephi 5:15-18). But though great were his accomplishments as a leader among his people, probably the most significant thing to be remembered about this good man is his delight in the word of God, a delight which carried him actively into the accomplishment of great and significant things for mankind. He knew the value of searching the books of the prophets for the words of eternal life, having been close to these writings through the making of plates upon which the record of his people was engraved. '... For my soul delighteth," he says, "in the scriptures, and my heart pondereth them, and writeth them for the learning and profit of my children. Behold, my soul delighteth in the things of the Lord; and my heart pondereth continually upon the things which I have seen and heard" (II Nephi 4:15-16).
According to Nephi's own account, he had made two sets of plates paralleling the same period of history for his people. 'The first set, more secular in nature, dealt largely with the wars and contentions and destructions of his people. 'The second set, written by express commandment of the Lord, includes the writings of Nephi found in the Book of Mormon as we know it today.
Nephi has this to say for the smaller or second set of plates: "And it came to pass that the Lord commanded me, wherefore I did make plates of ore that I might engraven upon them the record of my people. And upon the plates which I made I did engraven the record of my father, and also our journeyings in the wilderness, and the prophecies of my fa- 649 ther; and also many of mine own prophecies have I engraven upon them. And I knew not at the time when I made them that I should be commanded of the Lord to make these plates; wherefore, the record of my father, and the genealogy of his fathers, and the more part of all our proceedings in the wilderness are engraven upon those plates of which I have spoken; wherefore, the things which transpired before made these plates are, of a truth, more particularly made mention upon the first plates. And after I had made these plates by way of commandment, I, Nephi, received a commandment that the ministry and the prophecies, the more plain and precious parts of them, should be written upon these plates; and that the things which were written should be kept for the instruction of my people, who should possess the land, and also for other wise purposes, which purposes are known unto the Lord" (I Nephi 19:1-3).
There is power in the direct and simple words of Nephi which comes from his knowledge of the truth.
This prophet saw in vision the birth, death, and resurrection of the Christ hundreds of years before these events were to occur upon the earth, and his understanding of the marvelous gift of God in sending His Son is described in the language of the heart. If one wonders at the magnitude of Christ's atonement as it is written in the Bible, then let him tread Nephi's account of the mission of the Messiah.
Herein is a most satisfying experience. Nephi's words concerning the coming of the Savior have, for one seeking the truth, that quiet persuasive power that is not unlike that given through the voice of a friend.
Questions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggestive readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the passage given to discover plain and precious truths of the Gospel brought to light in the Book of Mormon. If time permits, have each member of the class add a passage of his own from within that part of the Book of \ Mormon (II Nephi, chapters 5 to 33) that gives Nephi's words concerning Christ to his peoplea passage that has brought new meaning to a Gospel truth. 1. Why is it hard to understand many of the great prophecies concerning the mission of Christ found in the Bible? Read II Nephi, chapter 25. The next question may be used if needed for class activity, or it may be assigned for home study: 2. In what condition will be the churches of the world in the latter days? How will new scripture be received? Read II Nephi, chapters 28, 29. L. D. S.