[Vol56 | February 1969 | Page 124 | Special Feature | Diet and Heart Disease The American | Heart Association]
—Enola Chamberlin Young Friend Ida A. Isaacson @ I met a young friend of mine at leadership meeting. She brought her bievcle to a full stop as we met. She is the mother of five lovely children. She had a basket on the front of her bicvcle, and it held her Relief Society Magazine, and her Out of the Best Books, Volume Four, a notebook, and her purse. It was gratifying to see her, and I was happily surprised at her mode of travel. It indicated vouthfulness, economy, and a method of traveling that was faster than walking those blocks. And it denoted good judgment. After the meeting was over, I am sure that she mounted her bicycle and arrived home a little earlier to greet her children and to make plans for dinner and attend to the multiple things that a young mother and wife must do. I admired her. 123 Show and Tell Your Child Who He Is Margery S. Cannon @ "Who are you?" asked the caterpillar of Alice in Wonderland. "J T hardly know, sir, just at present " Alice answered. Since her abrupt entry into the caterpillar's incredible land, she had been facing new situations so rapidly that it was no wonder she was bewildered. Similarly, our own world is a wonderland to every newborn child—big, strange, unfamiliar, and untried. "Who am 1?" he well might ask, and in that moment of newness he begins to form an image of himself. His first interpreters are his parents. They help him to discover who he is, what he can and cannot do, how he fits into the wonderland around him. They help him to determine his feelings about himself. What they think of him, he will think of himself; what he thinks of himself, he may become. A talented woman confides that, as a child, her parents frequently encouraged her interests with the comment, "You can do it. You can do almost anything." She claims this as the spark that kindled her courage and kept her trying. If the words and actions of his parents tell a child that he belongs, that he can achieve, that he is accepted and loved, his self-image will be positive. And a healthy self-image is so important that it should be a constant concern of his parents. Schoolteachers have devised regular "show and tell" periods to help children develop positive feelings about themselves. Each child has a moment in the spotlight to show and tell something to his class. The "ohs" and "ahs" when a child shows one of his creations, the spontaneous spurt of laughter when he tells a funny story, the interested comments of the teacher, all help a child to define himself as a worthwhile individual. This same "show and tell" principle can be used by parents to build positive feelings in their children. One of the most effective methods of achieving this is through the use of a record book.

[Diet and Heart Disease The American Heart Association]

This record book (or scrapbook) belongs to the child and provides a place for his photographs and certificates. A spot where his wise and comical quotes may be recorded, along with parental comments about the child—always complimentary, of course. The book becomes a "show and tell" about the child. Size is not important, but it should be sturdy enough to withstand the inevitable use it will be subjected to as probably the child's most cherished possession. "Do you want to see my very own book that tells about me?" will be a constant query when grandmother or a playmate comes to visit. Or he will crawl onto his mother's lap and beg her to read "my book." As they go over the pages, one by one, they show and tell him who he is. He "remembers" that he was born in the hospital and weighed seven pounds. He lingers for the umpteenth time over a letter from Aunt Lucy expressing happiness that he arrived. His baby picture with the crinkly eyes brings a chuckle that carries over to the family tree where his very own name is written. His finger traces each letter and travels up the trunk to the pictures on the branches. Such a cluster of loved ones brings a warm blankety feeling of belonging. Several pages and pictures later he realizes that he is growing bigger and learning new things. A "stick people" drawing. Tissue paper roses. A picture of himself on roller skates. He pauses at each new proof of accomplishment and a smile carves into his cheeks. 124 " Show and Tell Your Child Who He Is Most loved, perhaps are the words of praise and recognition scattered among the pages. "Jane was considerate and helpful. She often sat on her little red chair by the baby's crib so she could sing to him and keep him company." Or, "Our neighbor, Mrs. James, loved to have Jimmy visit. She said he was the only boy in the neighborhood who paid any attention to her retarded son." Under the picture of a smiling toddler is this delightful reminder, "Susie made our home a happier place." Comments such as these tell a child that he is appreciated and loved and spark loving responses in return. And, somehow, they seem a bit more impressive when they're written down in a book. To parents with large families, keeping up the books may loom as quite an undertaking. No doubt about it. But it is also extremely rewarding. Working on a child's book can be a shared experience, a precious togetherness time, something to do on a Sunday. In between the catching-up occasions his memorabilia may be collected in a large manila envelope. A child's comments may be recorded immediately in the book or on a piece of note paper and added to the envelope until the next rainy day. Or a small notebook with a section for each child will hold individual information until it can be recorded in the books. Full dates should be included with each addition. Every child would choose to have a book about himself. All the little patchwork pieces of his life, lovingly pasted together, give him a feeling of identity, a sense of belonging and achievement. A reminder that he's loved, a reverence for himself.