THE SEX.

	MISS Whately has organized large schools
for Mohammedan children at Cairo.
	FLORENCE Nightingale and Harriet Mar-
tineau are among 18,000 English women
petitioners for the right of Suffrage.
	MRS. Foster has climbed to the summit of
Popocatapetl, the greatest altitude ever at-
tained by a woman.
	A YOUNG Japanese lady, who is being
educated at Georgetown, received four first
premiums at the Commencement a few days
ago.
	MRS. Addie L. Ballou has received letters
of thanks from several of the inmates of
the Oregon Penitentiary for the cheering
words spoken by her during a recent visit to
the institution.
	MRS. Hilton has built up a day nursery at
Ratcliff, England. It is one of the best, and
has served as a model for many. Miss
Cooper has opened and managed a combined
club, reading room and lecture course for
costermongers.
	A WOMAN is to have the honor of furnish-
ing the design for Dr. Livingstone's statue.
The foreign exchanges report that about
$4000 have been subscribed to the fund rais-
ing in Edinburgh for the statue of the late
Dr. Livingstone. The design accepted for
the statue is that of Mrs. Hill, sister of Sir
Noel Paton.
	MISS Richards has very successfully con-
cluded at Stapletown, near Bristol, England,
the feat of walking one thousand miles in
one thousand consecutive hours. When she
began, on the 18th of May, an application
was made to the magistrates to interfere;
but it was unsuccessful, on the ground that
the young woman was a free agent.
	MISS Gilbert, a blind lady, opened a blind-
school in a Holburn cellar, for which she
paid eighteen pence a week. She has now
a thousand pupils, whom she has taught to
support themselves. They maintain the
Institution that gives them a home, an edu-
cation and an occupation. Its maintenance
costs $40,000 a year. This work of a poor,
blind woman may fairly be compared with
any of the marvels history records as
wrought by blind men.


MISS Rye, who began her work a few
years ago on a capital of $3750, has helped
178 governesses to emigaate to the British
colonies, where they have all, mainly through
her efforts, found employment. She has put
1500 English women into good places as do-
mestics in Australia and New Zealand.
She has personally taken to Canada and
placed in respectable families 1200 children
of the London streets. Nine-tenths of them
are girls, "who, but for their benefactress'
efforts, were condemned inevitably to a life
of the lowest degradation." Miss Macpher-
son has done the same good work for 1800
poor girls.


