PEN AND SCISSORS.

	COMPOSITION by a little boy—Subject, 
"The Horse." "The horse is a very useful
animal; it has four legs—one on each cor-
ner."
	FORTY Iowa schoolma'ams couldn't tell
what an abstract question was, but every
one of them understood the meaning of pop
the question.
	A YOUNG country girl of Bethel, Pennsyl-
vania, is making for herself a pretty little
fortune by raising poultry. Last year she
cleared $330, after paying all expenses, and
this year she expects to do better yet.
	WOMAN'S inferiority.—The young women
who graduated at Ann Arbor along with
the boys, though they behaved better, stud-
ied as well, and shared the honors, couldn't
smoke the class pipe.
	THAT "Work is Worship" has long been
an axiom with many, but here is an exem-
plification of it from an unexpected source
—India. The Hindoo Patriot and Indian
Journal says that the famine has produced
a reformer in the person of Pundit AJOODA
PRASID, who has succeeded in teaching the
Hindoos that work is worship. He is him-
self a Brahmin of high caste, and has given
practical example by working steadily with
a pickaxe and hoe.—R. N. Y.
	MANAGING A HORSE.—Never whip your
horse for becoming frightened at any object
by the roadside; for if he sees a stump, a
log or a heap of tan bark in the road, and
while he is eyeing it carefully and about to
pass it, you strike him with the whip, it is
the log, or the stump, or the tan bark that
is hurting him, in his way of reasoning and
the next time he will act more frightened.
Give him time to examine and smell of all
these objects, and use the war bridle to assist
you in bringing him carefully to these ob-
jects of fear. Bring all objects, if possible,
to his nose, and let him smell of them, and
then you can commence to gentle him with
them.	A LIVING POP-GUN.—There is a little
fish, the Chætodon, abounding in the East-
ern seas, from Ceylon to Japan, which se-
cures its prey by means of an instrument
like the blow-pipe used by mischievous
school-boys for projecting peas and other
means of torment. The nose of the fish is
a kind of beak, through which he has the
power of propelling a drop of water with
force enough to disable a fly, preparatory to
swallowing it. His aim is accurate, and he
rarely misses his object. The unsuspecting
fly sits on a spray of weed, a twig, or a tuft
of grass, near the water, pluming himself in
the warm rays of the sun. The fish cau-
tiously places himself under the fly, stealth-
ily projects his tube from the water, takes a
sure aim, and lets fly. Down drops the lit-
tle innocent to be swallowed by the fish.


WOMAN'S PROGRESS.—One of the most
remarkable features of the new Illinois law
concerning married women is the authoriza-
tion of civil suits between husband and 
wife. A married woman may do business
on her own account, with the same rights
and liabilities as if she were unmarried, ex-
cept as to partnership business, which she
cannot enter without her husband's consent,
unless he is idiotic or insane, has abandoned
or deserted her, or is confined in the peni-
tentiary.


PREFER diligence before idleness, unless
you esteem rust before brightness.—Plato.


