EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A few words of advice to our sisters, both
young and old, may not be out of place, for
it is our duty as mothers, to be patterns to
our children, as well as to teach them good
and righteous principles. It is our duty to
be kind and affectionate in our families and
to our husbands, not only in words but in
works. Not by sitting down and grumbling
and wanting some one to wait on us so that
we can act the fine lady or trying to be bur-
dens to our husbands by saying we won't
work as long as we can get any one to do it
for us; but by waiting on ourselves, and do-
ing all that we can to help them along. We
should try to have our meals ready in good
time and have them as palatable and nour-
ishing as possible for our husbands who are
constantly laboring for us. We should try 
to cultivate order in our homes, for it is one
of Heaven's first laws. We should teach
our children to love, respect and obey their 
parents, and shun all company who do not;
for if they associate with such companions
they will partake of the same spirit. It is
our duty to look well to our children and to
know what company they keep. This is es
pecially important with our girls from about
twelve to sixteen years old, for there are so
many men from sixteen to thirty and even 
forty years old, and among them are some
of our so-called Mormon boys, that would
like their company; but do they go first to
their parents or whoever has the care of the
girls and ask permission to take them to a
dance or theatre or to talk to them—no they
do not. Those who will do this may be
better trusted. But those who seek the
company of girls unknown to their parents,
guardians or friends, will use stratagem
and make others think these girls really
think so much of them that they are deter-
mined to keep their company on the sly;
and they will get their sisters or cousins or
some of their associates to induce the girls
to go to some place where they can meet
them, and there pour out their poisonous
venom in the kindest and most fascinating
manner within their power, until they often
finally prove their destruction. Mothers
lay these things before your daughters, you
no doubt talk to your daughters concerning
outsiders, but such Mormons (?) as these are
worse. Young men beware of the girl that
will connive at such stratagem, for she will
doubtless practise duplicity. If you are
keeping company with a girl that you love,
dont listen to tales against her; and, as they
say, "play off" on her before you know the
truth. I have known many young people
made miserable for life by the untruths and
strategems of others, and do not remember
ever knowing a young couple to think a
great deal of each other but somebody would
try to put something between them, although
they might not succeed. Girls, take the
same advice to yourselves, especially if your
beaux are respectable.				B.


