FACTS AND FIGURES.

	COFFEE is being cultivated in Amador
Co., California.
	SAN FRANCISCO has given $20,000 to the
Louisiana sufferers.
	MICHIGAN'S wool clip this year will
amount to 6,000,000 pounds.
	A YOUNG lady in East Salem, Or., has of-
ficiated as bridesmaid twenty-two times.
	A LADY of Kansas aged sixty-eight has
astonished her husband by presenting him
with a baby.
	A MAN in Nebraska made, last spring, 300
gallons of sirup from maple trees planted
nine years ago.
	THE total expenditure of the Government
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1874,
amounted to $287,133,873.17.
	THE city of Springfield, Mass., has a con-
science fund. Only one stricken individual,
however, has contributed to it, to the amount
of twenty dollars.
	A MAN in Victory, Vt., lost nineteen
lambs out of a flock of twenty seven, by
washing them in a solution of arsenic to
destroy the sheep ticks.
	OLEOMARGARINE or refined beef suet—a
substitute for butter— has been quoted in
the London market at from 100 to 110 shill-
ing per hundred weight.
	IN the reign of Queen Ann, the Boston
"News Letter" was the only newspaper
published in America, and it printed but
about thirteen thousand copies a year.
	MISSOURI has coal in 43 counties, iron in
48, lead in 54, zinc in 19, tin in 6, copper in
21, marble in 9, kaolin in 11, nickel in 13,
and other useful minerals distributed
throughout the State.
	IOWA has found a way to fight the grass-
hoppers. It consists in firing all the old
straw, sticks and stubble at hand, on a day
when the wind will drive the smoke through
fields infested by them. Crops have been
saved this way, and it may be the relief so
long looked for.
	THE statistical report to the State Sunday
School Convention at Portland, Oregon;
shows the following for the past year: Total
number of schools as far as obtained, 76; to-
tal number enrolled, including officers and
teachers, 7,254; total number of officers and 
teachers, 926; total number of volumes in
libraries, 6,754; total collections for all pur-
poses, $2,611.


A LITTLE boy of five years, dressed in his
first sack coat, stood leaning against his
mother's knee. "Mamma," said he, after a
pause, "I wish you had put tails to this
coat; I have wanted a tail coat these good
many years." There was silence for a space.﻿


