HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE UTAH Northern R. R. Company give
notice, dated Aug. 5th, that hereafter they will
discontinue running trains on Sundays.
	ELECTION RETURNS have been received from
a number, and all, except Tooele, show a huge
majority for the People's Ticket. We hope to
give more particulars in our next.
	INFORMATION WANTED.—Any person know-
ing the whereabouts of David Owen, who emi-
grated from Rumney, South Wales, in 1862,
will confer a favor by communicating his ad-
dress to John Rees, Wales, Sanpete Co., Utah
Territory.—Deseret News.
	PROF. KARL G Maeser expects to commence
the next regular term of the Twentieth Ward
Seminary on the 10th inst. Besides the prima-
ry, intermediate and grammar departments it
is the intention to have academic, normal, and
evening classes so as to meet the wants of all as
far as possible. To those who wish to properly
school their children or, if they can spare the
time, improve their own education, this will,
we feel confident, be a fine opportunity.
	WE HAVE a recent letter, from a sister in one
of the small country settlements, which gives
some account of the place and also of the Re-
lief Society there, but we cannot publish it be-
cause there is no indication of the place from
whence it was sent except what can be gained
from an almost illegible post mark. The en-
closed article, headed, "A Word of Advice,"
etc., will probably appear in this or the next
issue. All communications should clearly show
the time and place where they were written.
	THE EXCURSION on the 6th inst., from this
city to Franklin, Idaho Ter., the northern ter-
minus of the Utah Northern Railroad, proved
to be a decided success. As near as we could
learn, there were over seven hundred passen-
gers. Much credit is due to Mr. J. N. Pike,
the manager, for the care and attention he ex-
ercised in behalf of the passengers, also to the
railway men for their carefulness and courtesy.
No accident occurred, although while the return
train was crossing the mountain some grass
caught fire and a lady, catching the impression
that the cars were on fire, jumped, with her
infant, from the train; fortunately it was not
going at full speed and a gallant brakesman,
who was close by, jumped off, caught her with
one hand to prevent her sliding down the bank
and with the other signalled the train to stop.
Fortunately all escaped injury. The passen-
gers seemed to enjoy the trip very much. An-
other similar excursion is planned to come off
on the 19th inst.


LAST MOMENT was marked by several most
destructive floods in this, and other coun-
tries. This city and Parowan have been
visited by floods, damaging and destroying
some hundreds of dollars worth of property.


About thirty feet of the C. P. R. R. track
twenty-eight miles east of Wells, Nev., was
washed out by the bursting of a cloud. A
water spout bursting near Carson City, Nev.,
caused great destruction of property, no
lives lost. Heavy rains and the bursting
of a cloud on the 24th ult. at Eureka, Nev.,
caused a violent flood which swept through
the town, killing about twenty-five persons
and destroying a large amount of property.
At Pittsburg, Penn., on the night of July
26th-7th a terrible storm swept over the
city and surrounding country. The water
was three or four feet deep in the city, the
Panhandle tunnel was flooded, and houses,
out-buildings, shops, cattle and about twenty
bridges were carried away before the raging
waters. The destruction of property which
was immense has not been estimated and
the loss of life, more terrible than all the
rest, is great, it being calculated that from
150 to 219 persons have been killed. The
same date brings news of a fierce rain and
hail storm on the borders of Moravia, in
Europe, many lives reported lost, a large
number of cattle were drowned, sixty-four
houses were demolished and the railways
badly damaged.


