ANECDOTE OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
	
	In a certain case in court Mr. Lincoln had
for his legal opponent, a lawyer, whose ex-
cellent character, thorough knowledge of
law, and superior logic combined to exert a
controlling influence over the jury. This
lawyer (whom we call Judge Jones) had
made a speech, and a most able argument it
was. It was necessary in some way to dis-
sipate its impression. Mr. Lincoln, in re-
ply, opened his speech substantially as fol-
lows:
	"May it please the court and gentlemen
of the jury, we have just heard the learned
and masterly argument on the other side.
We know how thoroughly versed in the law
is Judge Jones, and how upright he is, and
we say, really Judge Jones cannot be mista-
ken in his positions. We also know how
true a gentleman Judge Jones is, how irre-
proachable are his manners and dress; and
I presume if I should say to you that Judge
Jones had put on his shirt wrong side fore-
most this morning, you would reply it is
impossible—and yet Judge Jones has put
on his shirt wrong side foremost this morn-
ing; you can look for yourselves, gentlemen;
so in this case, he has got things wrong end
foremost, and his whole argument is wrong
from beginning to end."
	Surely enough the irreproachable lawyer,
while pondering over his coming speech,
had dressed himself in the mistaken man-
ner indicated. After the laugh had subsid-
ed, consequent upon the detection, Mr. Lin-
coln analyzed the argument of the Judge,
and won his case.


﻿MISS Chandler decided, some years since,
to found a charity for the paralyzed. There
was then no such thing in London. She be-
gan by taking care of a poor paralyzed car-
penter. As fast as she could she assumed
charge of more paralytics, one by one. she
has now opened a hospital for paralysis and
epilepsy, in Queen’s square, London. It is
not excelled by any of the same sort in the
world. She has also established a convales-
cent hospital, which is doing great good.
She has, moreover, secured the endowment
of forty-eight permanent annuities for in-
curable paralytics and epileptics. She is
now collecting a large amount of money to
be applied the same way.


