FOR THE EXPONENT.
			OBEDIENCE.
	The Apostle Paul said, "Let every soul
be subject to the higher powers for whoever
resisteth the ordinance resisteth the power
of God." Therefore it is necessary for us
to render obedience to those who are placed
over us by our Heavenly Father and be as-
sured that He will not place over us any one
that has not received that Higher Power
from Him. The servants of God are in pos-
session of a higher power than we ourselves
are, therefore we should obey them. It is


not only to God and his servants that we
owe obedience, but it is also due to our par-
ents who have struggled and suffered and
given every thought to make us loved, res-
pected and honored, even as they would be
themselves. Think of the care and anxiety
they have had for us; how they have
watched over us and guided our erring foot-
steps when we were unable to care for our-
selves; let us think of this and if we wish
to repay them for all they have done, be obe-
dient tot their wishes, for there is nothing
so pleasing to a parent as an obedient child.
To those who wish to do right, the word
"obedience" has no tyranny; for once start-
ed right on the path of obedience it is easy
to tread. It is not hard to do the will of
those we love; and if we really love God,
His servants and our parents, we will cheer-
fully obey them and no harm will befall us.
We should obey every good feeling of our
hearts and when a thought is presented to
us by which we can do good, act upon it; do
good wherever we can and forget ourselves
but in such a manner that it will always be
remembered by others—looking for no other
reward than that sweet satisfaction that al-
ways springs from the knowledge that we
are doing right and that we know we are
approved by our Heavenly Father. Then
let us strive with all our might, mind and
strength to overcome the many temptations
to do wrong and keep our hearts pure so that
we can receive any instruction that would
be for our good. Let us do all we can to
gain the satisfaction of our own consciences
and the approbation of our heavenly Father,
in all things. 					L. T.


