DESERET UNIVERSITY.

	Feeling a deep interest in the advance of edu-
cation in our midst, and being desirous of pro-
moting its interests, in our humble way, we
feel a pleasure in calling attention to the above
named institution. We do so, the more because
it is—in the good it designed to accomplish—
not intended for this city or neighborhood
alone but for the whole Territory; for all who
desire to, and can avail themselves of the ad-
vantages it offers.
	With the compliments of Dr. J. R. Park,
President of the University, we have received
the "Circular of the Academical Department"
for the year 1874-75 which is intended, so we
understand, for distribution to those who think
of patronizing the University and desire to
learn something of its origin, government, fa-
cilities, the course of studies, etc. The teach-
ers all bear a high reputation as educators, and
from a personal acquaintance with Dr. Park,
and others of the faculty we feel confident they
will labor faithfully for the best interests of
those under their care.  Although the classes
are open to the admission of students at any
time we would recommend students to begin
with the commencement of a term. The aca-
demical year is divided into four terms, of ten
weeks each, the first one beginning on the 24th
inst. There is one feature we are pleased to
notice, not particularly for the purpose of in-
ducing persons to take advantage of the provi-
sion it contains, but to show that the Institu-
tion is one intended for the people. It is con-
tained in the following paragraph:
	"In order to assist persons in the Territory
who may be desirous of attending the Institu-
tion, and yet are unable to bear the cost of tui-
tion, the Chancellor and Board of Regents have
established a Beneficiary Foundation. By its
provisions, such persons are admitted as stu-
dents in the University free of charge. Those
who are desirous of availing themselves of this
provision, may first apply to the President of
the Faculty."
	The following extracts are from the closing
“Address to Parents, Guardians and Friends of
Education.”—“As the University now possesses
facilities for advanced education exceeding any
it has heretofore offered, and which are fully
equal, it is believed, to the present require-
ments of the Territory, its officers feel justified
in asking for it  the influence and patronage of
the friends of education.—They are earnest to
build up the cause of education in our midst
and to fortify our home institutions by making
them worthy of a liberal patronage.—In pre-
paring the Scientific Course of Instruction for
students of the University, great care has been
taken to select only such studies as are in some
degree essential to an acquaintance with the
principles and knowledge of practical life. Thus
pruned of what is purely theoretical or disci-
plinary, the course is a practical one in the
sense which means that the student shall ac-
quire such information and attain to such disci-
pline that he may be comprehensive, and able
to view subjects in their true light and to plan
and execute without blunders. Moreover, the
course is so shortened as to place it within the
reach of every youth truly desirous of an edu-
cation.—Enough time and effort, it is believed,
are usually spent by those attending our
schools, in desultory and consequently almost
profitless study, that, if wisely directed, would
enable them to reach a respectable degree of
attainment in education. It is urged there-
fore, that all who enter this school pursue regu-
larly and fully, the course they may select.—
No students, however, will be admitted into
the Institution who are noted as refractory, or
who are not thought to be earnest for an educa-
tion, and who have not the necessary acquain-
tance with the common branches to enter its
Preliminary Course.”
	We have been lengthy on this subject be-
cause we realize it is of deep importance, and
that it is the duty of our citizens to sustain, as
far as possible, our home institutions of educa
tion.
	In concluding, we would mention that lady
students are admitted on equal terms with the
gentlemen; and this has been the case, we be-
lieve, from the commencement. This may be
thought of but little importance by many, but
the subject of the co-education of  the sexes is
become one of the prominent questions that
agitate the educational world, to-day.


