ANCIENT CITY IN NEW MEXICO.

	Capt. W. C. Manning, of Gen. Crook's
forces, has furnished an interesting descrip-
tion of an ancient city in New Mexico, in-
habited by a remnant of the race which cen-
turies ago was a flourishing tributary of
Montezuma's empire. The Captain has
visited ihe town, talked with their inhabi-
tants, and studied their customs. The lar-
gest settlement is in New Mexico, about
thirty miles south of the border line of Ari-
zona. A strong wall surrounds it, and with-
in are houses for about four thousand people,
though the population is only 1,800. The
language and some of the custom resemble
Chinese, though religious worship is formal
and pompous. The priests have heavily
embroidered robes, which have been used
for unnumbered years. Like the peruvi-
ans, the people keep a record of events by
tying knots in long cords. The Govern-
ment is administered by thirteen caciques,
or chiefs, six of whom are selected for life,
the others being elected from time to time.
There is a head chief and a vice head chief,
a war chief, &c. Everybody votes, morals
are good, and women are respected, a fact
which alone makes a wide gulf between the
dwellers in this ancient city and the horse-
men of the plains. The place was men-
tioned by a Spanish Jesuit in 1529, and is
probably as old as the Mexican empire,
which was in its heyday of glory and pros-
perity when invaded by Coriez.


A GOOD IDEA.—Woman ought not to be
less interested in good government than
men. Mothers ought to take as deep an in-
terest as fathers in securing laws that shall
lessen, to their children, the temptations
that surround them, leading to a life of im-
morality and crime. The woman who says
she doesn't care to vote virtually says she is
indifferent to the highest interest of her
children and the world around her. She
virtually says she doesn't care whether or
not a brothel is located on every street cor-
ner in Grand Rapids, or a dram shop in
every basement, or a gambling hell over
every store. It is high time that these
"womanly" women realized that their indif-
ference as to how the world is governed is
as great a crime in them as all admit it to
be in men.—Grand Rapids Post.


