HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Bread Pancakes.—Nice breakfast pancakes can
be made of bread crumb soaked in milk over night, 
with eggs and a little soda.
	Lemon Cake— 1 cup of butter; three of white
sugar, stirred to a cream; add the yolks of five
eggs; 1 teaspoon soda; 1 cup sweet milk; the gra-
ted rind and juice of one lemon; 4 cups of flour and
the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth.
	To Give a Fine Polish to Linen.— Use lukewarm
(not cold) water to break down the starch. When
it has been reduced to the required consistency by
boiling water, add a pinch of fine salt and stir sev-
eral times with a wax candle. This will make the 
iron run smoothly, and give a polish to the linen
that nothing else can impart.
	Hop Beer.— Healthy, easily made and will keep
six or eight months; three months after it is made
it is almost equal to ale. This receipt is for fifteen
gallons: Twelve ounces hops, six quarts molasses;
ten eggs; put the hops in a bag and boil them fif-
teen minutes in three pailfulls of water; put in the
molasses while hot, and pour immediately into a
strong ale cask which can be made perfectly air
tight and put in the remainder of the water cold;
let the mixture stand until cool, and then add the
eggs, well beaten. This beer will not ferment in
cold weather unless put in quite a warm place.
	Plain Talk to Girls.—Your every day toilet is
part of your character. A girl who looks like
"fury" or a sloven in the morning, is not to be
trusted, however finely she may look in the eve-
ning. No matter how humble your room may be,
there are eight things it should contain, viz:
	A mirror, wash-stand, soap, towel, comb, hair,
nail and tooth brushes.
	These are just as essential as your breakfast,
before which you should make good use of them.
Parents who fail to provide their children with such
appliances, not only make a great mistake, but com-
mit a sin of omission. Look tidy in the morning, 
and after the dinner work is over improve your toi-
let.
	Make it a rule of your daily life to "dress up"
for the afternoon. Your dress may not, [---] need
not be, anything better than calico, but with a rib-
bon or flower, or some bit of ornament, you can
have an air of self-respect and satisfaction that in-
variably comes with being well and neatly dressed. 
	A girl with fine sensibilities cannot help feeling 
embarrassed and awkward in a ragged, dirty dress, 
with her hair unkempt, if a neighbor comes in. 
	Moreover, your self-respect should demand the


decent appareling of your body. You should make
it a point to look as well as you can, even if you
know nobody will see you but yourself.
	Household Measures.—As all families are not
provided with scales and weights, referring to in-
gredients in general use by every housewife, the
following information may be useful.
	Wheat flour, one pound is one quart.
	Indian meal, one pound two ounces is one quart.
	Butter, when soft, one pound one ounce is one
quart.
	Loaf sugar, broken, one pound is one quart.
	White sugar, powdered, one pound one ounce is
one quart.
	Best brown sugar, one pound two ounces is one
quart.
	Eggs, average size, ten eggs are one pound.
	Sixteen large tablespoonfuls are half a pint,
eight are a gill, four half a gill, etc.


