CIVILITY AND SINCERITY.

	Shall we dispense with the small courte-
sies of everyday life? We have heard men
argue that we should. For instance, they 
would say, "What is the use of asking a 
man when you meet him how his health is,
or to bid him good morning; these are un-
meaning forms, and are frequently hypocrit-
ical inquiries about which the person who
makes them cares nothing."
	We suppose to carry out such persons'
views, men and women should pass through 
life without paying the least attention to 
those courtesies, which, in so many instan-
ces, make life agreeable. Would this be 
right? We think not. It is true there is a
great deal of empty formality indulged in 
by people of the world in their salutations
and inquiries as to one another's condition;
but shall we, on this account, dispense with
them altogether? Would it be well because
some people pray with their lips, while
their hearts are far from the Lord, for all to 
dispense with prayer? Certainly not. It is
agreeable to the feelings of the most of peo-
ple to have their fellows take interest in
them and in their welfare; and this is right
and proper. How grateful it is to the feel-
ings of a child to have its parents take an
interest in it; and how much parents are 
pleased by the kind attentions and courte-
sies of their children! These are the mani-
festations of love, and without them, social
intercourse would be cold and hard, and, in
many instances, joyless. It does not cost
much to say "Good morning, Papa; how
are you?" or to address the same salutation
or inquiry to a mother; and they show that
the thoughts of the child are upon its par-
ents, and that it feels an interest in their
welfare.
	A true gentleman or lady is known by
his or her regard for the rights and feelings
of others; and it is no mark of a lady or
gentleman to be churlish, uncouth, or to be
indifferent in regard to others feelings and
to their welfare. On these points many 
young people need cultivation. Politeness
ought to be made a habit, and children can-
not tell of how much value courtesy or true
politeness may be to them in their future
lives. A man may have high ability; but
if he lack courtesy, or what some call civil-
ity, he will not succeed in making friends
and in accomplishing great results like a
man who possesses the quality, though his
talents may be of a lower order. It is said
of one eminent man, the Duke of Marlbor-
ough, that his charming manners often
changed an enemy into a friend, and that
to be denied a favor by him was more pleas-
ing than to receive one from another man.
These personal graces were of great aid to
him in his career. Politeness has often
made scoundrels successful, while the best
of men by their hardness and coldness, hace
repelled people who would like to be their
friends. But, because scoundrels have mis-
used this means of making friends, it does
not follow that we must all throw it aside,
or think when we see politeness that it is 
an evidence of a hypocrite. There are per-
sons who pride themselves on always saying
what they think. "I am no hypocrite," 
say they, "I tell people what I think of
them." It is frequently the case, in follow-
ing this course, they wound feelings and do
great injury.
	It is right and proper that in all our inter-
course with one another, we should be can-
did. Our deportment towards our friends
should agree with our feelings. If  a person
commits a wrong, a true friend will not
conceal his feelings respecting it; but will
tell the wrong doer plainly and kindly that
his conduct has been improper. But he
should be sure, to begin with, that he him-
self is right, and not speak in haste and
from anger. There is a kindness of manner
which one friend can use to another, even
when administering a rebuke or describing
faults, that will touch and soften the feelings,
and produce lasting effects. Every person
should cultivate this manner, call it by what
name you please, politeness, courtesy or
civility.—Juvenile Instructor.


HINT TO PARENTS.—A wise father and
pure mother, if they have secured the con-
fidence of their children—and this can only
be secured by intimacy—need not fear ruin.
Youthful indiscretion will never be pro-
longed into vice, for the least act on the part
of the offspring will be no sooner committed
than imparted to the parent, who will thus
be able to check youthful imprudence, and
interpose his experienced wisdom as barrier
between the commission of a single impro-
priety and the formation of a vicious habit.
Many a youth, who has been lost, might
have been saved if parents has cultivated
a greater intimacy with their children


PRINCESS Beatrice, Queen Victoria's
youngest daughter, a girl of seventeen, is
to be married to Adolf Ereidrich, the heir
apparent to the duke of Mecklenburg-
Strelitz. The father of the expectant bride-
groom rules over less than 1000 square miles 
of Territory, but as he owns over half the
land, in his dominions, rules almost abso-
lately, and has saved a large private fortune. 
He will bequeath a very pretty estate to his
son, should the latter survive him and no
revolution overthrow the present state of
things in Germany.


CALIFORNIA exempts editors from jury
duty, believing they have trials enough of
their own.


