			 LOCAL.
	On the 11th inst., Soren Larsen, a Dane,
suicided in an old log cabin, on the County
road. Domestic troubles supposed to be the
cause.......Recently a quantity of clothing
was stolen in the night, from Mr. Clive's
tailor shop on Third South St.........The an-
nual session of the Rocky Mountain Con-
ference of the M. E. Church commenced in
this city, on the 13th inst., about twenty
resident and visiting clergymen were in
attendance......Mr. John McEwan has been
elected Recorder of Provo Mining District.
......Alderman A. C. Pyper, having been
commissioned by the Governor, is now the
Justice of the peace at the City Hall......
The burning of a railway car loaded with
charcoal has occurred twice at Sandy Sta-
tion lately, under similar circumstances.....
A proposed cheap excursion from this City
to San Fransisco has fallen through.....Sev-
eral candidates placed on the "Liberal Tick-
et" repudiated their nominations before the
election on the 3rd inst......Over seventy
names, out of two hundred, on the list of
Jurors for the Second Judicial District, were
chozen from one precinct alone. This was
to secure as many non-Mormons as possible
......A fire occurred at Bingham on the 10th;
six buildings were burned......Manganese
has been found at or near Parley's Park......
Dr. S. B. Young has been appointed City
Physician.
		     PERSONAL.
	Gen. Hillyer, the last member of Gen.
Grant's original staff, died recently......Hon.
Chas. E. DeLong lately lectured to a full
house, at Eureks, Nev., the proceeds were
for the relief of the sufferers by the late in-
undation......The rumor that Vice-President
Willson had resigned or intended to on ac-
count of ill health, is contradicted by au-
thority......Senator Schurz has nearly re-
covered from the malarial fever and ex-
haustion, caused by over work, from which
he has been suffering......Charles T. Beeke,
the African explorer, is reported dead......
Charlotte Cushman is living in her villa on
Rhode Island avenue in Newport......The
Emperor of Germany sleeps on a narrow
iron bedstead, with pillows and mattress
harder than are used by the common people
in his domains......Uncle Jake Nobles, aged
one hundred and ten, and Sarah Peoples,
aged eighty-five years, were recently mar-
ried at Hot Springs, Arkansas......Geo. F.
Hoar it not anxious, seemingly, to be the
Republican candidate for Governor of Mass-
achusetts........Prince Leopold, Victoria's
youngest son, is to study law.....Marshal
Bazaine, with his wife, escaped from his
prison on the Isle of St. Marguerite on the
10th inst. The whole affair was planned
by Madame Bazaine.
			LITERARY.	Bret Harte is said to have written his last
story, "John Oakhurst," in one night......
Mr. James T. Fields is to deliver a course of
six lectures on "Modern English Litera-
ture" in Philadelphia, next winter......San
Fransico papers containing articles written
by Henri Rocheforth have been seized by
the French Government at the Post Office
in Paris......The publishers of the "Aldine,"
a popular illustrated periodical, are said to
have failed. The firm state, however, that
the failure can be "bridged over"......Miss
E. Keary—a Scandinavian by birth—has
written several books of poems which be-
token rare genius but are deeply imbued
with the stuperstitious spirit of the ancient
norsemen.
			SCIENTIFIC.
	An article in the "American Journal of
Science"' by the Rev. H. C. Hovey. shows,
from facts cited, that the bite of a skunk is
nearly always fatal and is to be dreaded as
much as that of a rattlesnake or mad dog.
......Late instances have proved that feather
beds are no protection against lightning......
A German paper states that elastic cords
have been successfully used for cutting off
tissues and removing swellings and tumors
without pain or loss of blood to the patient.


