DECEASE OF MR. E. L. SLOAN.

	On Sunday night, the 2nd inst,, the above
named gentleman breathed his last at his resi-
dence in the Twentieth Ward. Although he
had been unwell for several weeks and was ap-
parently growing worse, his friends did not
realize that his end was so near.
	He was an able journalist, and the EXPONENT
had, perhaps, no other friend whose influence
was more unsparingly used in its behalf at the
time of its commencement, than was that of
Mr. Sloan. For this, respect and kindest re-
membrances are due him from those interested
in its welfare. In our short acquaintance we
found him to be a gentleman and generous
friend, ever willing to encourage, and even as-
sist us, as far as possible in our editorial duties.
	No words of consolation more appropriate,
we think, could be offered his bereaved family
and friends, than the following from his own
gifted pen:
	"Mourn not the dead who peaceful lay
		Their wearied bodies down—
	Who leave the frail and mortal clay
		To seek a fadeless crown.

	Dry up the unavailing tear;
		Repress the selfish sigh;
	Know that the spirit ransomed here
		Yet lives, and ne'er shall die."
	We insert a brief sketch of his life taken from
the "Salt Lake Herald," through the columns
of which he was so widely and well known
during the last few years.

	"Edward Lennox Sloan was born at Conlig,
County Down, Ireland, Nov. 9th, 1830, and
consequently at his death he was aged 43 years,
9 months and 23 days. When eighteen years of
age he became connected with the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was ordained
an Elder and went forth as a missionary to
preach the Gospel. He first labored in Ireland,
and subsequently in England, Scotland and the
Isle of Capan. During his ministerial labors he
held several prominent positions in the Mission,
among others the presidency of the Notting-
ham, Sheffield, and Liverpool Conferences.
He was next connected with the Liverpool of-
fice, the headquarters of the European mission,
and labored upon the "Millenial Star," to the
columns of which his valuable contributions
gave an additional interest. While in this po-
sition he assisted for some time in forwarding
the Church Emigration and was otherwise ac-
tively engaged in advancing the interests of
the Church and people with whom he had cast
his lot.
	In the Fall of the year 1863 he immigrated to
Utah and was immediately employed in Presi-
dent Young's office, whence he went to the
theatre as box keeper. He was next engaged
on the "Deseret News" as assistant editor, and
afterwards on the "Daily Telegraph" where he
occupied a similar position. In 1869 he pub-
lished the Salt Lake City Directory, which was
the first work of the kind issued in this Terri-
tory. In the year 1870, in conjunction with
W. C. Dunbar, Esq., he started the Salt Lake
Daily "Herald," the first number of which was
issued on the 5th of June, since which time his
labors are well know to the public.
	Born in a land where it is difficult to rise to
any degree of eminence, without money to pur-
chase that eminence, he struggled manfully
against opposition, and early made his genius
acknowledged in his own local circles. Urged
onward by an inordinate love of books, and be-
ing withal ambitious to acquire an education,
he applied himself in his leisure moments to
study; and although he never attended school
after his eleventh year, when Mr Sloan had
grown to man's estate his education was far
superior to that of his fellows. Possessing a
powerful imagination, his inclination and de-
sires were naturally literary, and when but a
boy he had become the author of numerous
poems of acknowledged merit. His genius was
of no ordinary character, but towered above
that of common humanity, commanding for
its owner the respect of all who knew him.
But he has been cut off in his youth, as it were,
and in his death the country loses one who had
the capacity and ability to make himself great
by his accomplishments. In this Territory few
men were more widely known or respected than
the deceased, and his sad demise will occasion
deep grief and general sorrow thoughout the
length and breadth of Utah. He was known
to be an arduous laborer for and ardent defend-
er of the rights of the people, and it is the peo-
ple who will mourn his loss."


