EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SHALL FEMALE students be admitted to
the Andover Theological Seminary? is the
question being discussed by those interes-
ted.
	FOUR YEARS ago, the first lady Superin-
tendent of Schools in Iowa, was elected.
This year, only fifteen have attained to that
office. This is encouraging.
	A MAN AT Grass Valley, named Wm.
Hopkins, tried to scald his wife but badly
scalded himself instead. He doubtless feels
somewhat prejudiced, just now against the
“Water-cure” system.
	THE DAMAGE done by the storm in Mora-
via was far greater than the earlier estimates
indicated. Two towns and eleven villages
were devastated by the destroying elements,
Troops have been sent there by the Govern-
ment to assist the survivors.
	AN EASTERN paper says: “Three Bishops,
in the Methodist Episcopal Church in the
United States, advocate and defend woman
suffrage.”  That may do for a beginning but
we think our Christian friends are rather
slow. In Utah, a bishop that does not de-
fend woman suffrage is, we believe, an ex-
ception to the rule.
	A PHOTOGRAPHER IN Paris has been fined
100 francs for publishing the ex-Prince Im-
perial’s portrait. But a few years since the
ex-Prince seemed to be the destined ruler
of France and was educated with that idea;
now he is an exile and dare not set foot in
his native country. Who can envy such
fluctuating greatness!
	THE FOLLOWING is another proof of wo-
man's skill when properly exercised: One
of the ladies employed as a counter in the
national bank redemption division of the
Treasury Department discovered among the
notes sent for redemption one of the coun-
terfeit five hundred dollar bills originally
discovered at the Treasury Department
about a year ago. It was so perfect that
several of the most experienced clerks in
the Treasurer's office thought it was genu-
ine, but upon reference to the engraving
and printing division, it was, after an ex-
amination, pronounced a counterfeit. The
note will be branded and returned to the
national bank from which it was received.
	THERE HAS been so much said about the
degredation of the Mormon women of Utah
—who have, from the first, voted in Church
affairs; and whose fathers, husbands and
brothers extended to them the elective
franchise when it was an almost untried ex-
periment—that we feel interested in noting
the gradual conversion of the different re-
ligious societies, to the doctrine of “Woman
Suffrage.” Lately the Christian denomi-
nation, in New England, adopted the fol-
lowing resolution, by a vote of twenty-
three against nine.
	Resolved, That this New England Chris-
tian Convention regard the movement of
the Women of New England, for the exten-
sion  Suffrage to women, as a new appli-
cation of Christian principles to the social
relations, as a measure demanded by the
highest considerations of right and justice,
and essential to the publice welfare.
	ANOTHER TERRIBLE fire devastated
about sixty acres of buildings in Chicago,
on the 24th ult. Among the buildings
burned were the Post Office and quite a
number of prominent churches, hotels and
fine residences. The loss of property was
immense. Through the precaution of the
Postmaster there, the mail matter was re-
moved to a place of safety. This is no small
item if, as it is reported, "One-eighth of
the Post-Office business transacted in the
United States is done in Chicago.”
	“THE UNIVERSITY of Kansas has just 
graduated two young ladies. One received
a diploma as Bachelor of Science, the other
a diploma as Bachelor of Arts."   We used
to think it somewhat odd that the title of
Bachelor of Arts, Music, Science, etc. should
be conferred indiscriminately, whether the
honored recipient was married or single.
But that is nothing since a young lady can
sign the formidable initials, B. A, or B. S.
after her name. We are highly in favor of
young ladies striving to attain to the high-
est scholastic honors and hope that the pro-
gressive spirit of the age will introduce
more appropriate titles than some now in
use.
	TIMES HAVE not been hard only in Utah.
The following clipping from the Stocktou
Leader does not present a very cheerful
prospect for many “down East.”—The dull
Winter has in the east been succedeed by a
dull Summer. A correspondent writing
from Philadelphia gives a picture which is
true of all the Eastern cities:
	“Times are hard here—what this winter
will bring forth, I know not. One thing is
certain, and that is, those who exhausted
their little savings last winter, trusting to
summer work to replenish their stock, have
been badly disappointed and must meet the
next cold season less well prepared than they
did last. I know that carpenters, painters,
and bricklayers have made, so far, this sum-
mer not over half time, taking the trades
as a whole. One painting firm, usually em-
ploying eighty or ninety men, has this sea-
son had no trouble in filling their jobs with
twenty-five or thirty and other trades in
the building line are no doubt as badly off.
There is much public building work too, or
it would be worse. They say that the cen-
tennial contractors have employed Italians
at $1.25 per day, refusing men who wanted
$1.75 or $2.”
	THE ALANTHUS, or as it is commonly
called, the “tree of Paradise,” has been
used for quite a number of years in Utah,
as a shade tree. Its rapid growth and ele-
gant foliage doubtless rendered it popular
at first but these qualities, we have long
thought, do not compensate for its scanty
foliage and disagreeable odor when in bloom.
In a previous number we re-published an
article, in which the writer claimed to have
been externally poisoned through coming in
contact with the foliage while cutting one
down. And we now give an extract from
a communication by a physician to an east-
ern paper, as to its poisonous qualities.
"Several years ago it became my duty to
attend, professionally, a family of three per-
sons. This family had used for some time
water from a well in which the Ailanthus
had shed its blossoms. The taste, so charac-
teristic of the active principle of this tree,
was imparted to the water. The several
members of this family suffered severely,
the symptoms resembling somewhat those
of slow poison by strychnine. They discon-
continued the use of this water and slowly
recovered, which recovery started from the
day they began using water from a differ-
ent well."
	THE FOLLOWING account, showing how
"Boss" Tweed is treated in prison, may be
interesting as showing the difference be-
tween rich and poor convicts. There is one
thing, however, we like in it; that is the
devotion of his sons to their father, even in 
his disgrace.—
	"Mr. Tweed is waited upon every day
by his sons, who bring him wines, liquors,
and all the delicacies of the season, of which
he always has an assortment. James Carew,
the hero of the bogus express company, who
was sentenced a few months ago, performs
the duty of valet for him. He blacks his
boots, keeps his room in order, and in gen-
eral makes him comfortable. The furniture
of the "dismal cell" that overlooks the river
to the east is of French walnut. There is a
cabinet washstand, a desk and three or four
chairs, all of the same handsome material.
The ordinary prison bed consists of a straw
mattress covered with one sheet. Mr. Tweed
is forced to lie on a spring bed with two 
mattresses, a hair bolster and two feather
pillows. There is a patchwork quilt and a
white countepane. A green rep sofa, which
when ordered, was found to be too large to
be taken into his room, stands just outside,
and serves as a convenient seat to lounge
upon, reminding his callers of the old ele-
gance that met their eyes while they were
cooling their heels in the ante-room of the
famous brown-stone building on Broadway.
A selection of standard books adorn the
shelves of a commodious library and the
floor is nicely carpeted."
	ON THE morning of the 5th, the steamer
"Pat. Rogers," with her entire cargo of
cotton, was burned near Aurora. About
twenty persons lost their lives, besides sev-
eral badly burned. The following vivid
description of the scene seems almost too 
terrible to read.—"The negro crew behaved
badly, hurrying of the boat before there was
any imminent danger, and monopolizing
all available means of escape. Many who
escaped to shore were disfigured for life by
the flames that blew strongly in that direc-
tion from the boat. Miss Rowden, of Louis-
ville, jumped from the boat toward the Indi-
ana shore, and hungry tongues of flames were
licking along the surface of the water and
horribly burnt her head and face; she had no
life preserver, and only secured one end of
a plank by clinging to the pantaloon leg of a
man who swam past her; she says that while
moving through the water several gasping
drowning wretches extended their hands
towards her, some even grasping her hair
and tearing out handfulls in their terror;
the last living object seen on board was a
little child three or four years of age, run-
ning about screaming with affright, sur-
rounded by flames, its legs, arms and face
exposed to the terrible heat.


