MARY SOMERVILLE.

	The "Personal Recollections," from early
lifeto old age, of Mary Somerville, is a
volume that deserves commendation for
what it says and for the way it is said. The
name of Mrs. Somerville was long ago made
familiar to many persons, as that of the au-
thor of several good books on unfamiliar
scientific subjects—her writings were "The
Mechanism of the Heavens," "The Connec-
tion of the Physical Sciences," "Physical
Geography," Molecular and Microscopic Sci-
ence," and a number of papers for Scientific
Societies. Yet, in this account of her life,
we find that during the ninety-two years of
her long and useful career, there was no time
that she was not busied as other women are,
with the duties of a daughter, wife and 
mother. She lived in the midst of unsym-
pathetic family ties, and yet she mastered
the very greatest mathematical theories,
along with such a knowledge of French and
Latin and Greek as served in the education
of her own children in turn. It was not
until a second marriage, to Mr. Somerville,
that she had any encouragement in her own
home, to the work in which she found her
chiefest delight, and then she pursued it
with industry and with such success that
the foremost men of science of her own
country and of Europe welcomed her to their
own number. Our American scientific and
literary men, Pierce, of the Coast Survey,
Bowditch, Longfellow and others who are
referred to in her reminiscences, were no
doubt the more ready and anxious to testify
their admiration and regard for her because
in her veins was the blood of Washington
himself.
	Her maiden name was Fairfax, and she
claimed a common ancestry with the Fair-
faxes from whose stock Washington also
sprang. But a better claim upon American
affection and interest in her life and works
is found in the fact that she, who was one of
the best exponents of what a woman could
do, was ardently earnest in her belief th a
all women were entitled to better opportu-
nities of education; her scientific library—
the collection owed its best value to the
tributes sent her by men of science in all
countries of their works—was bequeathed
by her to the College for Women, near Cam-
bridge, England. Yet this advocate of 
women's right of the highest education, was
herself steady to the last in performing every
duty as a helpmeet and wife, in making her
own house the scene of a delightful social
life, in which her husband was always the
host and she there as his wife and the moth-
er of three children. With this simple ad-
herence to the custom of her early Scotch 
training, she united almost a genius for mul-
tifarious work; for, besides her scientific
studies, she kept up her sketching and paint-
ing, was passionately fond of animals and
of flowers; she seems to have a regular suc-
cession of pets—dogs, birds and horses—
while even in her last days her delight in-
spired her daughters in their search for ferns
and wild flowers in their Italian homes. It
is not wonderful that with such occupation
and so many resources her life was as busy
as well spent and the tranquil story of rem-
iniscences is a perfect reflection of that well-
balanced mind, which enabled her to carry
on the nicest scientific research in the midst
of household cares and duties. To read it is
to gain a lesson in that most difficult, yet
necessary task of so adjusting the duties
and pleasures of life as always to be at the
best in both, and this was the secret alike of
the fame and of the longevity of Mrs. Som-
erville.
	Her life was not without its trials, and
such as would with ordinary minds have
put an end to anything like the success
which crowned her indefatigable industry.
She tells simply and sadly, but not complain-
ingly, of the small encouragement her love
of knowledge received until she was a
grown woman, and she speaks in earnest, 
but not querulous tones, of the family and
domestic incident and affections of her
long life. But the same perseverance which
enabled her to master scientific problems
when she was a girl, in spite of harsh par-
ents and severe rules, stood her in good
stead, when in her ninety-second year she
was still able to read books on the higher
algebra. "Sometimes," she says, "I find
them difficult; but my old obstinacy remains,
for if I do not succeed to-day, I attack them
again on the morrow." With such energy
at such an age, we can guess what force it 
must have had in earlier years; and yet we
can learn it not from what she says of her-
self, but only from the letters addressed to
her by the great men of science who were
her contemporaries, and who wrote to her as
their equal co-laborer. The whole tone of the
book gives even to those who know nothing
of Mrs. Somerville as a scientific writer a
delightful picture of a woman whose life,
passing as it did far beyond the ordinary
span, was spent in doing good to and for
others, in the enjoyment of the simplest
pleasures of domestic life, and in the high-
est possible intellectual exercise.—Philadel-
phia Ledger.


