	PARIS, BEAR LAKE VALLEY, July 27th.
DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	Although you hear but little from the
Relief Society of this place, we are still
alive; and though we do not make a big
noise, our course is onward, and by the
help of our Father, we intend it shall con-
tinue so.
	A special meeting of the sisters of this
place was called on the 19th inst., as we had
the pleasure of a visit from Mrs. Mary I.
Horne. On account of such a short notice,
there were not as many assembled as if it
had been more widely circulated, but those
present were extremely attentive, deeply
interested and appreciated Sister Horne's
kind words of counsel and comfort, which
will, without doubt, be lastingly remembered.
We were also favored with the presence of
Bishops Budge and Horne, who encouraged
the Society to press forward, and bore their
testimonies to the truth of this Work. An
excellent spirit prevailed, and the Society
felt greatly blessed and benefitted.
	The ever memorable "24th" found the
people of this place well prepared to enjoy
the day. There were the usual firing of
guns, hoisting of the "stars and stripes," etc.
A procession under the direction of the
Marshal, marched to the Social Hall where
singing by the Sunday School Choir, music
by the Brass Band, speeches by Pres. Chas.
C. Rich and Bishop Budge, recitations;
songs and toasts followed each other in their
order.
	We all feel interested in the progress of
the EXPONENT and are greatly pleased with
its advancement. Accept our success of
your interesting and valuable paper and may
the spirit of God be with you continually to
assist you in all your good efforts.
		ALICE A. MARGETTS, Secretary.

	The Relief Society of the town of Pan-
guitch was organized December 10th, 1873;
it now numbers seventy-eight members and
is progressing very favorably. It is an or-
ganization from God, and as such we feel a
pleasure in being numbered with the Soci-
ety here in Panguitch, though it is only a
small branch, as it were, just putting forth
its first leaves. The great design of this
Society is to do good and instruct one an-
other; to lift up and not pull down; to com-
fort those who mourn; help the poor;
teach each other how to live, be industrious
and set an example of neatness and piety
worthy of imitation; to help us improve the
talents God has given us; to help prepare
[right column]
us for an exaltation in the Celestial King-
dom; to unite us; teach us to love one an-
other and cease to do evil, and to ennoble and
fit us for Eternity.
		MYRA HENRIE, President,
		MARY ANN P. MARSHALL,
						Secretary.

	Through a communication from Mill
Creek, in this county, we learn that the Re-
lief Society of that place is fully organized
with the following officers: Mrs. Mary Mc-
Allister, President; Mrs. Ann Morgan and
Mrs. Elizabeth Park, Counselors; Mrs.
Horace Miller, Treasurer; Mrs. Christina
Miller and Mrs. Elizabeth Carlisle, Secreta-
ries. At an interesting meeting held there
a number of visitors were present, includ-
ing Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Z. Young, Mrs.
E. Howard, Mrs. H. Brinton and Bro. Wm.
Young. All the officers and members of
the Relief Society were also present. A
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association
was organized with Miss Joan Helm for
President, with six counselors; Mrs. Marga-
ret Spencer, Superintendent and Miss Linda
North, Secretary. Seventy-four members
joined the Association.


