HYGIENIC NOTES.
	MENTAL WORK:—Calm and steady men-
tal work is conducive to long life; but ner-
vous emotion, mental work that is a con-
stant urging, and, at the same time, is an
unhanging of the even tenor of the mind
eats away the brain faster than any mental
labor, no matter how hard, that is system-
atic. As men do not really die of heart
disease as often as supposed, but of apo-
plexy, or congestion of the lungs, so they
do not die of brain work but brain worry.
Scott died of it, Southey, Swift, Horace
Greeley, and probably Thackeray.	HINTS FOR YOUNG MOTHERS.—The three
requisites for babies are plenty of sleep,
plenty of food, plenty of flannel. The say-
ing that man is a bundle of habits is as
true of babies as it is of grown children. If
an infant is accustomed from its birth to
sleep from six o'clock at night until day-
light, the habit of early sleep will be formed
and the mother may have all her evenings
to herself. If the baby sleeps all night, a
long morning nap will naturally come about
dinner-time, after which the child, except
when very young, should be kept awake un-
til six o'clock. Perserverance in this routine
will soon result in securing quiet evenings
for both the child and parent. Some moth-
ers have a long season every morning and
every night in getting the baby asleep.
They rock them and sing to them till Mor-
pheus enfolds them. With most children
this is entirely unnecessary. An infant can
be accustomed, by a few days' training, to
go to sleep itself for a morning's nap as well
as for the longer rest at night.—Ex.
	IS HARD WATER WHOLESOME.—There is
a popular prejudice that hard water is dan-
gerous to the health, and on that account you
are constantly warned by physicians to be-
ware of it, but in England one of the lead-
ing authorities on this subject, Dr. Letheby,
after devoting many years to an investiga-
tion into the properties of the water intro-
duced into English cities, and to a study of
the sanitary reports on the subject, comes
to the conclusion that moderately hard wa-
ter is safer and more healthful than soft wa-
ter. Hard water is not only clearer, colder,
more free from air, and consequently more
agreeable to the eye and to the taste than
soft water, but is less likely to absorb organic
substances, to sustain the life of zymotic or-
ganisms, or to exert solvent properties upon
salts of iron or upon leaden conducting
pipes. The lime salts exert a beneficial in-
fluence upon the animal economy and even
protect the system from dangerous outward
influences. Dr. Wilson of Edinburgh, has
also collected much valuable material on the
subject, and comes to the same conclusions
as Dr. Letheby. He takes the ground that
the human body requires for its nourish-
ment and support a supply of certain min-
eral salts, among which carbonate and phos-
phate of lime play an important part in
building up the compactness of the bones
and in other functions. We usually obtain
phosphate of lime in our animal and vege-
table food, but not from the water we drink.
Carbonate of lime, however, is not contained
in adequate quantity in our solid food, but
generally obtains in spring and well water.
	It has been incontestibly shown that in
mountainous districts, where the water is
more or less hard, the inhabitants exhibit
the best physical development. On the
other hand it is believed that in large cities
the mortality is inversely as the hardness of
water supplied to the inhabitants. A water
which contains about six grains of carbon-
ate of lime to the gallon is suitable for use
in all household purposes. As a drink and
for cooking food, such a water offers the nec-
essary carbonate of lime for the support of
life in the simplest, most natural and most
easily digested form, and is at the same
time more agreeable, fresh and sparkling.—
Selected.


