DIVERSIONS.

	WEATHER report—A thunder clap.
	A PAIR of drawers—A span of truck 
horses.
	SURE to produce short crops—The barber's 
shears.
	WHEN does a chair dislike you? When
it can't bear you.
	WHY is an industrious woman like a
clock? Because her hands are incessantly
at work.
	IF it takes a man two days to make a
post-hole in broken ground, how long will it
take him to make a broken post whole?
	"ARE there any fools in this town?"
asked a stranger of a newsboy. "I don't
know," replied the boy; "are you lone-
some?"
	THE mayor of a Portugese city once enu-
merated, among the marks by which the
body of a drowned man might be identi-
fied, "A marked impediment in his speech."
	"HAVE you got a little Indian there?"
said the engineer, as we passed a young
squaw with a pappoose, standing at a depot
on the Pacific Railroad. "No," she an-
swered; half Injun, half Injuneer."
	"BRETHREN." said a young Quaker lately
married, "I have married a daughter of the
Lord!" "Ye have, eh!" ejaculated an
Irishman. "It'll be a long time before ye'll
see yer father-in-law."
	"WHAT are you catching my trout for?"
cried an irascible old gentleman to a young
man whom he found fishing on his place,
and who utterly silenced him by coolly say-
ing, "Who wants to catch your trout? I'm
only trying to drown this worm!"
	"THAT dog of yours flew at me this morn-
ing and bit me on the leg, and I notify you
that I intend to shoot it the first time I see 
it." "The dog is not mad." "Mad! I know
he's not mad. What has he got to be mad
about? It's I that am mad."
	SQUABBLES, and old bachelor, showed his
stockings, which he had just darned to a
maiden lady, who contemptuously remarked,
"Pretty good for a man darner"—Where-
upon Squabbles remarked, "And good
enough for a woman darn her."
	AMONG the gifts of a bride was a broom,
with the following:
		"This trifling gift accept of me;
		     Its use I would commend;
		In sunshine use the brushy part,
		     In storms, the other end."
	JOB'S patience wasn't a circumstance to
that of an American judge, who listened
silently for two days while a couple of 
wordy lawyers contended about the con-
struction of an Act of the Legislature, and
then ended the controversy by quietly re-
marking, "Gentlemen, the law is repealed."	"NOTHING," said an impatient husband,
"reminds me of Balaam and his ass as two
women stopping in church and obstructing
the way, to indulge in their everlasting
talk." "But you forget, my dear," returned
the wife, meekly, "that it was the angel
who stopped the way, and Balaam and his
ass who complained of it."
	THE other night a weak-eyed boy was sit-
ting in Ames' church, wholly forgetful of
his surroundings, and lost in beatific con-
templation of a certain young woman, touch-
ing whom he cherished violent designs, 
when suddenly a hand was laid upon his
shoulder, and a deep contralto voice thun-
dered in his ear: "Young man, you look as 
though you wanted to go to Jesus! Won't
you come to Jesus?" Whereupon he was
struck all of a heap, as it were, and stam-
mered: "I would—I want—that is, I should
like to go, you know, but not this evening,
thank you; I have an engagement."


A LITTLE Troy boy, who was worrying
over a piece of shad at dinner lately, demor-
alized his mother by asking—"Mamma,
where did God find all the bones to make
the first shad of?"


