[Vol46 | October 1959 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Quilts | Author: Atkinson]
Margaret smiled warmly at them all as she began, still stitching on QUILTS AND MOTHERS-IN-LAW the multi-colored quilt. "There's really not much to tell. It just came to me that there is an analogy between this quilt and a mother-inlaw. This quilt didn't just happen, nor was its beauty achieved in a day or a week. Its tiny pieces weren't placed haphazardly and sewed together any way. 'They follow a certain definite pattern which took time and conscious effort in the placing of each piece as to color harmony as well as design. Care had to be taken in cutting cach piece accurately, so the seams would join perfectly." Margaret turned to Midge and asked, "How long has it taken you to make this quilt top, and for whom are you making the quilt?" OR myself. Pve always wanted a sunburst pattern, and now, at last, I'm getting one." Midge answered the last question first, then went on, "Ive been working on it off and on for over a year. At times I've been so tired of it, I've felt like chucking it in the waste bag." "Why didn't you, I wonder?" Margaret asked softly. "Because I could see how beautiful it would be when finished," was Midge's answer. "It is beautiful and altogether lovely and artistic. I recall the poet's words, 'A thing of beauty is a joy forever. Its loveliness increasCs " "I hope so," ment. "So it is with a good mother-inlaw and son or daughter-in-law relationship," Margaret continued. "Its loveliness increases as time passes, and little children weld the link stronger with their love and was Midge's com- 675 gentleness. But it takes much longer than a year to prepare to be a good mother-in-law. Much, much longer. Tne truth is, I began my preparation when my first child, a little daughter, was placed 12 my arms. As I lay lookmg at the tiny nuracle of her, I prayed that someday she would know the same holy happiness I was experiencing, that she would be married to as worthy a man as her father. I knew that if she were to attain this joy, I must constantly, throughout the years, exercise all care to see that she developed in every way as a sweet, lovable, capable, and intelligent person, as a daughter of God, that she might attract the right type of men and choose for her husband a splen- - did young Latter-day Saint. "As the years passed I found myself praying that some mother and father were training their son for her, as we were training our daughter for him. It was a joyous task and my formula has worked, for she married a man to whom it ls casy to be a good mother-in-law. For over five years we have enjoyed a rewarding mother-son relationship." "That is wonderful, Margaret," said Myrtle Eaton, who sat next to her. "You haven't even needed to work specifically toward the desired result have you? Not directly with your son-in-law, I mean?" "Oh, yes, I think you would call some of the things I did working directly, but it has all been so natural that it hasn't seemed like work at all. When Elna and Bob were engaged, I talked with Bob alone." Margaret smiled as_ she continued, "I remember how solemn he looked when Elna Icft us, 676 saying, 'Mother has something to say to you, Bob.' But he was soon at case and smiling." "What on earth did you talk to him about? Did you tell him how you expected him to treat Elna?" Midge asked with a mixture of curiosity and incredulity in her voice. "No, I didn't even mention such a thing. I simply told him I had watched with approval the love developing between him and my girl and that I would be proud to welcome him into the family. I congratulated him on being a clean, intelligent, and industrious young man, a good Latter-day Saint, and told him he was getting a sweet,' clean, and lovely Latter-day Saint wife in my daughter. That was about all. But through the years I have given him an orchid of praise whenever I have been especially thrilled over his achievements in his home with his family, in his work of making a living, and in his Church duties. Often for little things like helping Elna by feeding the baby, bathing the two little boys, or just being kind and courteous always." "I hope you are as successful with your daughter-in-law." Midge gave this comment feelingly. "I'm sure I shall be, for I sort of picked out Susan for Peter before he had seen her." "Tell us all about it, my dear." Loved Aunt Martha's voice was low. ¢¢T met Susan several months before Peter did. She came home with Bea—that's my youngest— RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 from college for a week end. She was so gracious and lovely in every way that I found myself indulging in wishful thinking. I did something about it, too. "The next summer when Peter came home on vacation, I had Bea invite her to go with us on a family picnic up the canyon. 'That was all I needed to do. Things progressed slowly but surely after their meeting, and now in two weeks I shall have a daughter Susan." "Just the reaping of the harvest from the seeds you've sown throughout your children's lives," spoke up Aunt Martha gently. "I've watched you, Margaret — with each one — teaching them to be sweet and wholesome and unselfish; training them to be happy and efficient little housekeepers, farmers, future wives and husbands, fathers and mothers. You have taught them the gospel, my dear, and made it a living force in their lives. You have done your job well." Margaret's eyes caressed her neighbor lovingly and she answered, "Dear blessed Aunt Martha!" Then turning to Midge she concluded, "That is all there is to tell. Was it enough of a production?" It was a thoughtful Midge who answered, "Yes, Margaret. It was wonderful. 'Thank you, dear friend. I'm starting years too late in some things, but I shall concentrate on loving and appreciating Lisbeth from now on, and as my beginning, Pll give her this quilt when it's finished." FROM THE FIELD Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for 'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by June I. Hunsaker NORTH BOX ELDER STAKE (UTAH), CORINNE SECOND WARD PRESENTS "WOMEN OF THE NEW WORLD," AT CLOSING SOCIAL May 26, 1959 Left to nght: Lila Wright as Mrs. Noyes; Donna Smoot as Mary Rowlandson; Karen Smoot, literature class leader; Selma Yagi as Pocahontas; Leona Rasmussen as Anne Hutchinson; Ann Norman as Anne Bradstreet; Lozon Reeder as Sarah Pierrepont; Elma Carter as Margaret Winthrop. June I. Hunsaker, President, Box llder Stake Relief Society, reports: "This second ward of Corinne was organized this year. It isa very new ward and a small one, but the sisters are working diligently to interest their sisters and carry out the plan of the General Board. Karen Smoot, literature class leader, is a very young mother with two small babies and a 'well of energy.' "' Page 677 678 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 Photograph submitted by Pauline Stevens BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), BYRON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR 'TITE SUNDAY EVENING SERVICE, March 1, 1959 Front row, left to right: Grace Stevens, organist; Kay Stevens; Dola Hoffeling; Rose Doty; Savanna Sessions; Fern Wolz; Fannie Wolz, choristcr. Back row, left to right: Pearl Ames; Ivadell Willey; Ella May Hatch; Vivian Hopkinson; Martha Wirth; Florence 'Tanncr; Norma Hassenthaler. Photograph submitted by Helen H. Hawkins SPANISH FORK STAKE (UTAII) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, Junc 3. 1959 Front row, seated, left to nght: Louise Robertson; Irene Johnson; Luccen Jenkins; Tressa Yates; Rosa Warmer; Ellen Fillmore; Eliza Hales; Lilian Boyack; Emma Powell. Second row, seated, left to right: Thelma Nielsen; Belle Jorgenson; Mima Ney; Pearl Cloward; Minnie Hanks; Marguerite Taylor; Lucy Stone; Alice Lloyd. Back row, standing, left to nght: Dora Cloward; Effie Taylor; Dora Hales; Flora Pierce; Mary Simmons; Netta Sorenson; 'Twila Isaac; Mary Marcuson: Hannah Chapple; Tora Banks.. Helen H. Hawkins, President, Spanish Fork Stake Relief Society, reports: "All of our visiting teachers were recognized and honored at our visiting teachers convention, June 3, 1959. Tach ward president introduced those visiting teachers in her ward who NOTES FROM THE FIELD 679 had a record of thirty-six years or more of service. 'Vhese women came to the front of the room, where they were cach presented with a corsage. Special honors were given to Fliza Hales for seventy years of continuous service in Relief Society, and who still serves as a visiting teacher in her nineticth year. Sister Ellen Rose Fillmore was honored for sixty-six years as a visiting teacher. These sisters were prescnted with a book as well as a corsage. President Joseph Y. Toronto encouraged the sisters to attend their sacrament meetings.... 'he dramatic presentation 'A Light Shining' was portrayed in drama and music. Several beautiful numbers were presented by the stake Singing Mothers under the direction of Emma Jex, with Blanche Nielson, accompanist. At the close of the program, dainty refreshments were served at beautifully decorated small tables." 5 d 5: ae. Photograph submitted by Frances P. Andrus NORTHERN FAR EAST MISSION, YOKOHAMA SERVICEMEN'S AND JAPANESE BRANCIT RELIEF SOCIETY CLOSING SOCIAL, May 25, 1959 Front row, seated, left to nght: Watabe Hlisako and child; Suzuki Masako, Secretary, and child; lima Hara San; Sato Shigcko, Counselor; Aramaki Toshiko, President; Kura Sawa Hiroko, Counsclor; 'Tabata Susan. Back row, standing, left to right: Amino Kozuko; Carol Jester; Lucille Sims; Mirian Sampson; Sasaki Masako; Madge Anderson; Myrtle Jepson, Secretary; Janice Telford, Counselor; Veda Hales; Genecl Stewart, President; child; Fern Allen, Counselor; Carol Rae Brown, missionary; Barbara Pcterson; Arima Sachiko; Audrey Stevens, missionary; 'Tanaka Shigeko. Seated in front are the children of the Suzuki, Watabc, Sasaki, and Jepson families. Frances P. Andrus, President, Northern Far East Mlissicn Relief Society, reports: "The Yokohama Branch Relief Society held their closing n-ccting for the year in connection with the Yokohama Servicemen's group. <A delicious luncheon was prepared and served by the Servicemen's Group. The Japanese sisters prepared the dessert. These two groups have worked closely together in the past in working on bazaars and other projects, and a close friendship has developed between the American and Japanese sisters. 'Though the language was at times a barrier, still the spirit of friendship and love between sisters in the gospel could be felt in this gathering." 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 RASS Fee erence Photograph submitted by Della O. Taylor EL PASO STAKE (TEXAS) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 1959 Front row, seated, left to right: Second from the left, Iva Huish Jones, composer (with Minnie Gonzalez) of song "A New Day Dawned for Women" which was sung at the conference; fourth from the left, Della O. Taylor, President El Paso Stake Relief Society; sixth from the left, chorister Winnie H. Mortensen. Second row, at the mght: Second Counselor Mildred M. Nations. Third row, at the left, stake organist Jennie N. Lawson; at the right, First Counselor Ida W. Jackson. Photograph submitted by Vera R. Cantwell SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS DRAMATIZATION "A LIGHT SHINING," May 16, 1959 Front row, seated, left to right: Alta Allen, as the voice of President Belle S. Spafford; Burdetta Harris, a ward Relief Society president; Mary Gregory, a grandmother; Adeline Done, her daughter; Anna Brough, as a stranger; Livina Done, daughter-in-law. Back row, standing, left to right: President Hazen Hillyard, Smithfield Stake, representing the voice of the Prophet Joseph Smith; Roma Low, who presented the introduction; Arlene Rigby, a ward first counselor; De Vonna Rindlisbacher, a ward second counselor; Shirley McQueary, honored as being the youngest visiting teacher NOTES FROM THE FIELD 681 present; Emma Olney, honored for being a visiting teacher since 1904. Velda Rasmussen, narrator, was absent when the picture was taken. Vera R. Cantwell, President, Smithfield Stake Relief society, reports that the following renditions were presented by the Singing Mothers: "How Beautiful Upon the Mountain," by the Third Ward; "Sweet Is the Work, My God, My King," by the Amalga Ward; "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," by the First Ward; "More Holiness Give Me," by the Fourth Ward. Photograph submitted by 1 Louise S. Brooks HAWAII MISSION, KAUAI DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY AND OFFICERS DISPLAY HANDWORK Front row, seated, left to right: Second Counselor Sarah Santos; President Ruth Yorkman. Back row, standing, left to right: chorister Jane Goo; First Counselor Anne Moa; literature class leader Mary Ann Soong; Secretary-Treasurer Carolyn Kalauano; Magazine representative Eleanor Battad; social science class leader Lily 'Ticala. Louise S. Brookes, President, Hawaii Mission Relicf Society, reports: "In the picture there is a display of woodrose corsages, as well as the 'chicken feather' leis which are made for the 'lauhala' hats. These leis are dyed beautiful colors and are very attractive. "In the Hawaii Mission for the past year we have been working very hard on the project of having every member of the Relief Society learn each step in the art of Hawaiian quilt making, as it was becoming a lost art. We are very happy to say that some of our districts have reported 100 per cent in having a quilt in each home, and those not having reported as yet have their quilts underway.... It takes the tutoring of the older sisters in this art to teach the younger ones, and they have responded so well that I am sure it will be carried on by all now. "We are very fortunate in having the 'lauhala' weaving in the mission. Several of the branches have made the mats and runners for their chapels as well as their Relief Society rooms. Of course, we would like to mention the beautiful and colorful 'muumuus' that all the sisters make and sell at the bazaar." 682 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 ee. Ivi. A? St pence RTC TS = — WH Alitnpaee te eee! Photograph submitted by Jessie S. Baldwin SNOWFLAKE STAKE (ARIZONA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Standing, center front: Anella Hall, organist, and Edna Smith, chorister. Jessie S. Baldwin is president of Snowflake Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Elva F. Richins SUMMIT STAKE (UTAH) OLDEST AND YOUNGEST VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, April 12, 1959 Left to right: Charlotte Beard, ninety-three years old, oldest visiting teacher in Summit Stake, has served for sixty-five years; Louise B. Judd, one of the youngest visiting teachers in Summit Stake, who presented a lovely corsage to Sister Beard. Elva F. Richins, President, Summit Stake Relief Society, reports: "A highly successful visiting teachers convention was held, April 12, 1959. 'Theme of the convention was 'A Light Shining.' Special recognition was given Sister Charlotte Beard of Henefer for her sixty-five years of visiting teaching. Louise Judd of Hoytsville, one of the youngest teachers in the stake, presented Sister Beard with a beautiful corsage. Also honored were those sisters who had served forty years or more: Susannah Fowler, Henefer; Ada Wilde, Nellie Wright, and Susie Wilde, Coalville; Mae McQueen, Emma Pace, Caroline Sargent, and Della Winters, Hoytsville; Arletta Davis, Wanship. 'The convention was directed by the stake Relief Society presidency: Elva Richins, President, and her Counselors Thelma Brown and Maxine Wright.

'The stake visiting teacher. Message leader is Margaret Richins." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 683 PERESETEGH aeeittea by Ruby M. Dobbins PALO ALTO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS "BLOSSOM TIME IN MUSIC AND FASITIONS," April 24, 1959 Left to right: Commentator Colette Taylor, Palo Alto Second Ward; Lisa and Wendy Watts; Yvonne Pendleton; Zella Wood Clearly as the bride. Miss Clearly made her own dress and was married shortly after this occasion; Donna Smith; Carol and Sharon Spencer. 'The models are from Sunnyvale Sccond Ward. Ruby M. Dobbins, President, Palo Alto Stake Relief Society, reports: " 'Blossom Time in Music and Fashions' was the title of the g gala affair presented by the Palo Alto Stake Relief Society, April 24, 1959, climaxing a rewarding year. The stake Singing Mothers, directed by Ann Thomas, presented a lovely musical carrying out the theme 'Blossom Time. The fashion show under the direction of stake Work Director Counselor Dagna Wheatley, and stake work mecting leader Dorothy Muir, was_participated in by all six wards of the stake. Modesty in dress was the keynote. All creations shown were made by the sisters of the stake. In some instances young girls made and modeled their own frocks. 'The fine workmanship, styling, selection of fabrics and colors by the sisters was truly inspiring. The hall, beautifully decorated in boughs of spring blossoms, was filled to everflowing by a most appreciative audience. Dainty refreshments were served by the stake Relicf Socicty board. We are extremely proud of the achievemnts of the sisters in the stake." Shey Shall Find Peace Leslie Savage Clark They shall find peace who spend their days Where mountains crowd the sky, Where peaks catch dawn's first radiance And dusk's blue shadows lie. Vhey shall find peace where twisted pines, Undaunted by the scars From sleet or lightning bolt, still keep Their covenant with stars, LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 20—Spiritual Creations Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 29:30-50) For Tuesday, January 5, 1960 Objective: To indicate the importance of fundamental gospel teachings given to Adam relating to the Lord's spiritual creations, and some of their implications. NDERSTOOD in_ relationship to the material of the lesson last month, we shall see that this lesson, dealing with some of the first principles of the plan of salvation, has a very definite bearing upon man's present and eternal welfare. Spititual and Temporal Existence In last month's lesson we learned, among other things, about a judgment to come upon the righteous and the wicked. Verse 30 of Section 29 points out that we should remember that all of the blessings for the righteous and the condemnation upon the wicked have not been made known. Most important for our consideration is the fact stated in verses 31 and 32: For by the power of my Spirit created I them; yea, all things both spiritual and temporal— Page 684 First spiritual, secondly temporal, which is the beginning of my work; and again, first temporal, and secondly spiritual, which is the last of my work (D & C 29:31-32). When the Lord revealed that his creations were both spiritual and temporal and that the spiritual was first, a most significant truth was given. At this early period in the restoration of the gospel, the faithful members of the Church were being told something about their life before this earth was organized. About three years later (1833), the Lord also made known that Jesus was the Firstborn of his children and the rest of the human race was in the beginning with the Father. (See D & C 93:21, 23). Jesus Is Our Elder Brother Because Jesus was the Firstborn in the spirit, or the eldest of God's children, he is our Elder Brother. It LESSON DEPARTMENT seems imperative that, as Latter-day Saints, we understand the greatness of the Redeemer as compared with the rest of our Father's spirit children. 'This difference is brought out by the following statement of the First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve issued June 30, 1916, as follows: There is no impropriety, therefore, in speaking of Jesus Christ as the Elder Brother of the rest of human kind. That Ile is by spiritual birth Brother to the rest of us is indicated in Hebrews: "Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people" (Hebrews 2:17). Let it not be forgottcn, however, that He is essentially greater than any and all others, by reason (1) of His seniority as the oldest or firstborn, (2) of His unique status in the flesh as the offspring of a mortal mother and of an immortal, or resurrected and glorified, Father; (3) of His selection and fore-ordination as the one and only Redeemcr and Savior of the race; and (4) of Ilis transcendent sinlessness. Jesus Christ is not the Father of the spirits who have taken or yet shall take bodies upon this earth, for He is one of them. He is The Son, as they are sons or daughters of Elohim (James E. TatMAGE, Articles of Faith, pp. 472-473). Man's Pre-Earth Life Whereas, the Christian world teaches that the individual's first creation, or birth, was temporal without a spirit life before entry into this mortal world, the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness gives a true understanding of man's divine origin. The doctrine of man's spiritual creation is explained in a statement issued by the First Presidency composed of Joseph F. Smith, John R. Winder, and Anthon H. Lund: Adain, our great progenitor, '"'the first 685 man," was, like Christ, a pre-existent spirit, and like Christ he took upon him an appropriate body, the body of a man, and so became a "living soul." The doctrine of the pre-existence, — revealed so plainly, particularly in latter days, pours a wonderful flood of light upon the otherwise mysterious problem of man's origin. It shows that man, as a spirit, was begotten and born of heavenly parents, and reared to maturity in the eternal mansions of the Father, prior to coming upon the earth in a temporal body to undergo an experience in mortality. It teaches that all men existed in the spirit before any man existed in the flesh, and that all who have inhabited the earth since Adam have taken bodies and become souls in like manner ("The Origin of Man," Improvement Era, Vol. XII, November 19009, page 80). Animal and Plant Creation Not only was man created in the spirit first, but also the rest of God's creations. 'The revelations speak of this spiritual creation as including vegetation and animal. How clearly this is spoken of in these verses: And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew. For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spinitually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth. For I, the Lord God, had not caused it to rain upon the face of the earth. And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men; and not yet a man to till the ground; for in heaven created I them; and there was not yet flesh upon the earth, neither in the water, neither in the air (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 3:5). That which is spiritual being in the likeness of that which is temporal; and that which is temporal in the likeness of that which is spiritual; the spirit of man in the likeness of his person, as also the spirit of the beast, and every other creature which God has created (D & C 77:2). Creations Are Eternal From the scriptures we learn some important truths relative to 686 the creations of God: (1) they constitute an organizing of already existing eternal material (See D & C 131:7); and (2) that his creations will therefore continue to exist as a part of the resurrection. (See D & C 29:23-25.) 'These truths are pointed out in the statement made by the First Presidency: By Ilis almighty power He organized the earth, and all that it contains, from spirit and element, which exist co- -cternallv with Ilimself. He formed every plant that grows, and every animal that breathes, cach after its own kind, spiritually and temporally — "that which is spiritual being in the hkeness of that which is temporal, and that which is temporal in the likeness of that which is spiritual." He made the tadpole and the ape, the lon and the elephant; but He did not make them in His own image, nor endow them with Godlike reason and_ intelligence. Nevertheless, the whole animal creation will be perfected and perpetuated in the Hereafter, each class in its "destined order or sphere," and will enjoy "eternal felicity." That fact has been made plain in this dispensation (D & C 77:3) ("The Origin of Man," Improvement Era, Vol. XIII, November 1909, page 81). Spiritual and Temporal Basic to much of Latter-day Saint teachings concerning how the spirit sons and daughters of God should understand the way they should live in mortality is found in these verses: Speaking unto you that you may naturallv understand, but unto myself my works have no end, neither beginning; but it is given unto you that ye may understand, Because ye have asked it of me and are agreed, Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of men; neither Adam, your father, whom I created. Behold, I gave unto him that he should be an agent unto himself; and I gave RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 unto him commandment, but no temporal commandment gave I unto him, for my commandments are spiritual; they are not natural nor temporal, neither carnal nor sensual (D & C 29:33-35). An understanding of many of the revelations which follow for study in these lessons is based on the proper interpretation of the foregoing truth. Commandments to build houses, sell or retain propcrty, and other similar activities will engage our attention later. 'These activities arc the basis of many of the accomplishments of our people and also for what may be done in the future. 'These statements from some of our leaders of the past express the Latter-day Saint point of vICW: Brigham Young: With God, and also with those who understand the principles of life and _ salvation, the Priesthood, the oracles of truth and the gifts and callings of God to the children of men, there is no difference in spiritual and temporal labors — all are one. If 1 am in the line of tny duty, I am doing the will of God, whether I am preaching, praying, laboring with my hands for an honorable support; whether I am in the field, mechanic's shop, or following mercantile business, or wherever duty calls, I am serving God as much in one place as another; and so it is with all, each in his place, turn and time (Journal of Discourses 13:260). Joseph F. Smith: You must continue to bear in mind that the temporal and the spiritual are blended. Thev are not separate. One cannot be carried on without the other, so long as we are here in mortality. The Latter-day Saints believe not only in the gospel of spiritual salvation, but also in the gospel of temporal salvation. The work that we are engaged in is not designed to be limited by the spiritual necessities of the people alone. It is the LESSON DEPARTMENT purpose of God in restoring the gospel and the holy Priesthood not only to benefit mankind spiritually, but also to benefit them temporally (Gospel Doctrine, 6th Edition, pp. 208-209). Adam and the Devil In continuation of our study of "first things" as they are made known in this important revelation, we have our attention drawn again to the pre-earth life. The "origin" of Satan's rebellion, the number of the spirits who followed him, the fact of free agency as a principle in the pre-existence, the eventual home of the devil's miserable horde, and the place of his operations in the lives of us mortals, are all indicated in these VETSES: And it came to pass that Adam, being tempted of the devil — for, behold, the devil was before Adam, for he rebelled against me, saying, Give me thine honor, which is my power; and also a third part of the hosts of heaven turned he away from me because of their agency; And they were thrust down, and thus came the devil and his angels; And, behold, there is a place prepared for them from the beginning, which place is hell. And it must needs be that the devil should tempt the children of men, or they could not be agents unto themselves; for if they never should have bitter they could not know the sweet (D & C 29:36-39). Adam and the Fall It should be apparent to all Latter-day Saints that basic to an understanding of the purpose of life is an acceptance of the account given in the scriptures that Adam was a real historical person, and of the rebellion of Satan. (See Abraham 3:23-35; Moses 4:1-4.) Adam's place in the plan of salvation is 687 such an important one that it was formulated in the heavens before the foundations of the earth were laid. It seems that Adam's place in the divine plan was necessary that there be an opportunity for making possible the union of the spirit of man and a mortal body. What is called the fall of Adam is but a means of giving further opportunities for the progression of the spirit sons and daughters of God. We obtain knowledge from this modern revelation of what happened to Adam as a result of his partaking of the forbidden fruit and also of the effect of that act upon his posterity. It is declared that Adam "became subject to the will of the devil, because he yielded unto temptation" and: Wherefore, I, the Lord God, caused that he should be cast out from the Garden of Eden, from my presence, because of his transgression, wherein he became spiritually dead, which {s the first death, even that same death which is the last death, which is spiritual, which shall be pronounced upon the wicked when I shall say: Depart ye cursed. But, behold, I say unto you that I, the Lord God, gave unto Adam and unto his seed, that they should not die as to the temporal death, until I, the Lord God, should send forth angels to declare unto them repentance and redemption, through faith on the name of mine Only Begotten Son. And thus did I, the Lord God, appoint unto man the days of his probation — that by his natural death he might be raised in immortality unto eternal life, even as many as would believe; And they that believe not unto eternal damnation; for they cannot be redeemed from their spiritual fall, because they repent not; For they love darkness rather than light, and their deeds are evil, and they receive their wages of whom they list to obey (D & C 29:41-45). 688 With these scriptures before us, we see that in yielding to temptation Adam became subject to two penalties: (1) spiritual death, or banishment from the presence of God, and (2) temporal death, or separation of his spirit and mortal body. In the process of time Adam died the temporal death. By breaking the commandment, he became mortal and subject to sin; therefore, he could no longer remain in the presence of God. So it is with us, Adam's posterity; we die the temporal death, and we also become spiritually dead when we transgress God's commandments after the age of accountability, which is eight years. In order that Adam and his posterity might know of the way they might become spiritually alive and become prepared to enter into the Lord's presence, revelations were given to Adam by angels. The gospel plan was available to them that they might exercise faith in Jesus, the Only Begotten of the Father. Through the atonement wrought by the Savior, man is rescued from the grave to immortality; and, if he has been faithful to the covenants received in the gospel, he may enter into his exaltation, or eternal life. But for those who do not repent, either in this life or in the spirit world, they must remain spiritually dead. (Subsequent lessons will deal with the salvation of mankind.) In this revelation, it is pointed out that those that believe not will go to eternal damnation and cannot be redeemed from their spiritual fall, because they do not repent.