[Vol46 | October 1959 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
Nibley Assistant Church Historian "THE Northern California Mission was formed, under the direction of the First Presidency, in January 1942, when the California Mission was divided. "The dividing line was set between Visalia, in the Fresno District, and Porterville, in the Bakersfield District, and between King City, in the Monterey Bay District, and Paso Robles in the Santa Barbara District." The State of Nevada was made a part of the Northern California Mission, and later on the Klamath Falls District in Southern Oregon was added. German E. Ellsworth, who had previously presided over the Northern States Mission, was called from his home in Mesa, Arizona, to preside over the new mission. Early in February, a mission home, at 5 Buena Vista Terrace, San Francisco, was purchased, and headquarters was established. In May 1947, President David O. McKay, accompanied by Mrs. McKay, traveled to Klamath Falls, Oregon, in the Northern California Mission, and dedicated a new and beautiful chapel. The writer of this article, and Mrs. Nibley, had the privilege of accompanying President and Mrs. McKay on this journey. President Ellsworth served as president of the mission until June 1949, when he was succeeded by Thomas W. Gardner of Salt Lake City. President Gardner served until June 1956, when he was succeeded by J. Leonard Love. ABT et NRE gi ac He ae x ee Se: eek aa car ae ay Courtesy E] Dorado County Chamber of Commerce Submitted by Hazel S. Love GOLD DISCOVERY SITE, COLOMA, CALIFORNIA Page 650 THE NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION 651 Redwood Empire Association News Bureau Submitted by Hazel S. Love THE GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE, CALIFORNIA In summing up his labors, and the labors of the missionaries and saints, during the time of his presidency, President Gardner said: "We have participated in the construction of twenty-two chapels and we have witnessed the baptism of approximately 3,859 converts." In May 1957, President Stephen L Richards, of the First Presidency, visited the Northern California Mission and at Berkcley held mectings with missionaries for two days. Baptisms in the Northern California Mission have greatly increased during recent years. President Love reported 1,659 baptisms for the entire year of 1958, and for the first six months of 1959, converts baptized were 862, which led the missions of the Church. In July 1959, President Love received word that he would be released in the near future, and that he would be succeded by Warren I. Pugh of Salt Lake City. Twenty-three Relief Society organizations, with 642 members, were reported in December 1958. Hazel S. Love is the recently released president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society. Leta Curtis Pugh is the new president. Note: the cover for this Magazine "Farm Scene in Northern California," is representative of the lovely countryside of this region. See also "Recipes l'rom the Northern California Mission" by Hazel S. Love, page 662. The New Day Hazel K. Todd CHAPTER 1 OR quite some time now Lynn had sat there by the train window, her eyes on her hands resting idly in her lap. The sunlight streaming through, together with the vibration of the streamliner, as it fled over the countryside, brought vividly, now and_ then, sudden glints of light from the diamond on her finger. She had been watching it half consciously, wrapped in a lovely warmth for David whom she had left yesterday in Chicago. Now she gazed curiously out the window at the once familiar landscape. Nine years was a long time. And yet how well she remembered the long line of poplars. More real now than the lost love it signified, it stretched away to the high school building at the top of the hill, still too far away to be anything but a vague red dot. 'The spring breeze moved the leaves on the trees outside. It had been just such a day as this another time long ago. Warm sunshine, and gentle wind, children scattering papers and books, and slng-songing: No more pencils, no more books, No more teachers' angry looks. And high school students pairing off on the grass. Suddenly it was only yesterday she was sitting beside Johnny under the lilacs, on the grass by the tennis court. He was writing in her year book. As she peeked over his shoulder she gave a Page 652 gay little laugh at the string of tiny hearts drawn on the side of the page, each with a cupid's dart piercing its center. 'The page was filled. With writing, and he was just beginning the next leaf. "But, Johnny," she laughed, "there won't be any place left for anyone else. You're filling the whole book! Besides, you must save something to write in MayRee's book." "So what?" he said, ignoring the suggestion about MayRee, and making a lacy valentine sort of thing at the side of the page. (Johnny always doodled on the margins of her books.) "No one else matters anyway. 'The truth is, Lindy, no one else should be allowed to write in your year book. I'm just to the Valentine dance. There is still the prom, the senior hop, and." "Wasn't this your stop, Miss?" Lynn looked up with a start. The train had stopped. And the older gentleman who sat beside her was looking at her with a peculiar sort of smile. Earlier in the day she had talked a little with him and told him about her home town she was coming to visit after nine years of absence. "Oh-h," she stammered. "TI guess I was dreaming." And then, in a minute she was standing beside her luggage, ignoring the taxi waiting before her. She was looking up the block at the old familiar sign, "Jensen's Drug Store." "Taxi, miss?" She turned then, to the cab, a THE NEW DAY sudden impulsive decision formed in her mind. "Just to the drug store up at the corner," she said. [ was like some old dream, walking through the open door. And then she was sitting in the booth where she and Johnny had sat over their sodas even when they were sixth graders. She rubbed her hand fondly over the table surface almost as she would have done over a beloved keepsake. Her eyes went to the edge of the seat where she sat. She gave a sharp little gasp. Yes, they were there, hers and Johnny's initials, where they had so boldly carved them. And Mr. Jensen had scolded them roundly. Good old Mr. Jensen! He had scolded them, but he had never sanded away. Those initials! "Lindy Marlow! Or is it a ghost!" Mr. Jensen was rubbing his hand excitedly over his chin exactly as he used to do when something disturbed him. Lynn recalled how she and Johnny once had spilled their sodas over the floor and broken the dishes when they had been scuffling over a pink straw. It all came back so vividly, how he had stood there rubbing his chin, while they shamefacedly cleaned up the mess. "All you need," he said, "is Johnny sitting there beside you, and I would know I had been dreaming all these years." For a brief moment Lynn's eyes fell to the carved initials. "No, you haven't been dreaming, Mr. Jensen," she said. His eyes were on her diamond. She felt embarrassed and _ slipped her hand into her lap. He sat down opposite her table. As she looked into his dear, 653 familiar face, a flood of questions rushed to the tip of her tongue. "Ts it like it used to be?" she asked eagerly. "Do the students still come for sodas after school? 'The Martin twins, are they still freckled as turkey eggs? Or have they all grown up and gone away? Do the new ones sit on the stools and sing, 'A root beer float like a tippy boat,' and 'Pink ice cream that makes me scream'?"' She was laughing gaily. He looked at her so closely, she suddenly stopped. "Now, Mr. Jensen, don't tell me you didn't like our songs?" His eyes were twinkling merrily. "Of course I liked your silly songs. I still like them. I was just looking to see if your nose still wrinkles up like a prune when you laugh." "You never told me that!"' "I didn't dare," he said with a sly wink. And then he leaned over the table toward her. "But, tell me, what brought you to Springdale after all these years of silence? Must have been something very unusual." "It was Aunt Polly." She was quite sober now. "She has been writing such peculiar letters. Is she all right? Have you seen her lately?" He was rubbing his hand over his chin thoughtfully.