[Vol46 | October 1959 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: A Is | Author: Kingsbury]
["A" Is for Apron — Part III (Conclusion) Ilene H. Kingsbury]

she asked eagerly. "Do the students still come for sodas after school? 'The Martin twins, are they still freckled as turkey eggs? Or have they all grown up and gone away? Do the new ones sit on the stools and sing, 'A root beer float like a tippy boat,' and 'Pink ice cream that makes me scream'?"' She was laughing gaily. He looked at her so closely, she suddenly stopped. "Now, Mr. Jensen, don't tell me you didn't like our songs?" His eyes were twinkling merrily. "Of course I liked your silly songs. I still like them. I was just looking to see if your nose still wrinkles up like a prune when you laugh." "You never told me that!"' "I didn't dare," he said with a sly wink. And then he leaned over the table toward her. "But, tell me, what brought you to Springdale after all these years of silence? Must have been something very unusual." "It was Aunt Polly." She was quite sober now. "She has been writing such peculiar letters. Is she all right? Have you seen her lately?" He was rubbing his hand over his chin thoughtfully. "Why, yes, Lindy, as a matter of fact, she's been in several times lately." Lynn looked at him suspiciously. "What for?" "Oh, I didn't mean to frighten you," he said quickly. "I just meant, well — she just comes in as she always did." "Mr. Jensen, I think Aunt Polly is ill. Oh, she never said so exactly, but her letters, they aren't the same. They aren't filled with the things 654 that go on in Springdale like they used to be. Just little notes with vague hints about things she doesn't do. I'm sure there is something wrong." "Now, don't fret yourself, Lindy. I'm sure Aunt Polly will be all right when she has a nice long visit from you." He looked at her fondly. "But here, you haven't given me a chance to answer all those questions you asked. Maybe you'd better start all over one at a time." "But I don't remember what I asked. I just want to know about everybody." "Well, let's see. The Martin twins grew out of their freckles, went away to school and married somebody. MayRee Richins came back about a year ago. She's a nurse at the hospital, got interested in her career, I guess, and never married. Who else?" Funny, how after all these years, MayRee's name should touch a little twinge of jealousy. She looked down at the table. "Just anybody," she said. He traced a pattern on the table with his finger. "Don't you want to know about Johnny?" She was silent a second or two. Her eyes dropped again to the carved initials, and then through the door at something across the street. "Yes, of course," she said. Then she looked into his face. "Tell me how he is, really — I mean, is he well? Does he get along all right? Does he ever come here and...?" YNN stopped suddenly and looked down in embarrassment. His hand touched hers gently. "Yes, Lindy, he comes here quite often, though I don't think he goes anywhere else much. And, yes, he RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 sits in your seat. I have never scen him sit anywhere else. If someone is there, he waits." It was so foolish to want to cry. Long ago she had put the tears all away. But this place made the dead past come back so vividly. She looked down at the table again. "Alone?" she asked, thinking vaguely of MayRee Richins. "Not always. Sometimes he brings his children. You know it has been two years since their mother died." "Yes, I know." "T used to be so sure it would be you and Johnny," he said. "Whatever happened?" As she looked into his dear, solemn face and saw the mist in his eyes, she remembered how, in the first of those years gone by, she had longed to throw her arms around her old friend's neck and sob out the loneliness she had known. But that was long ago. She said, "It's been so long, Mr. Jensen. 'That's the way things are in life. You do one thing or you do another. It doesn't really matter, does it?" She sighed a little then, and pushed the hair back from her forehead. "But I must get to Aunt Polly." She looked at Mr. Jensen with a suspicious look. "You are quite sure there is nothing really serious with Aunt Polly?" He nodded his head assuredly. "Quite. In fact, Tl bet she can drive the Chev to get you. Shall I call her?" "I was going to take a taxi and surprise her," she answered. "But please do." And then, of a sudden, a bright thought struck her. It may have been something in the breeze float- THE NEW DAY ing through the door that was suggestive to her of other spring days, when she had walked home to Aunt Polly's through the field along the path that followed the creek. Maybe the wind told of willows just right for spring whistles, and of smooth stones where the water gurgled. Or maybe it whispered to her of lovers' walks along the winding path. Whatever it was, she suddenly had an unconquerable longing to walk along the path again as she had done in those years before. "Wait, Mr. Jensen," she called impulsively, as he started for the phone. "Tell me, is the path still there, I mean along the creek through the willows?" He looked at her curiously. "Must be. Most things stay the same here, same fences, maybe sagging a little, same people, a few more wrinkles, a few more homes along the upper highway. But I haven't heard of anything being done to the path along the stream." She smiled at him with dreamy eyes. "You know, I think I'd like to walk along that old path again. Would you mind if I left my luggage? I'll pick it up later." He smiled at her. "Lindy, I was afraid you'd be a sophisticated city girl after all these years with a fancy 655 job and everything, but there's still a lot of that same little child left in you that drank her first soda right there in that seat. Bet you even pull off your shoes and wade in the creek. Maybe you'll catch the croup and Aunt Polly will have to come after croup medicine for you." She went out the back way then, with their laughter vibrating in her heart, across the vacant lot to the fence where the willows marched to the stream. "But I couldn't be the same girl, could I?" she asked herself. 'Too much has happened to me." The little old gate was still there, its poles a little more worn, its woven lattice bleached and weatherbeaten, but still squeaking on its hinges as she opened it. She almost wanted to talk with it about the secrets it knew from her past, like the times when she and Johnny met here in summertime. For a moment her hand rested lovingly on its rustic post and then she left it with the silent secrets, and went down the path through the willow clumps. And as she walked, the years slipped away. 'wo long pigtail braids hung down her shoulders and she walked with bare feet over the soft dead leaves of the path. (To be continued ) Call IT le a Squirrel Gf You Like Gwen Marler Barney Yes, I must store in bottles All the summer fruit in sight Before the winter throttles Harvest with its greedy bite. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1899 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN or ALL NATIONS" INSTRUCTION FOR NURSES: Dr. Margaret C. Roberts expects to open another class for a Corps of Nurses in November of this year. It is ardently hoped that under the auspices of the Relief Society in the several stakes of Zion near Salt Lake County, suitable young and middle-aged women may be selected who have the ability' and aptitude for this employment, after taking a course of physiology and general nursing. 'The term will continue for seven months with three lessons a week. Each student must be supplied with text books, note books and pencils, cost not exceeding $2.50. Dr. Roberts will have some of the best surgeons and physicians of Salt Lake City to give lessons during the course. As the course of instruction will be given free of charge, in consideration of this free course of study, each sister taking it will agree for a certain length of time to nurse under the direction of the president of the Relief Society in the respective locality where she resides free of charge.... —kKditorial Note RELIEF SOCIETY IN ST. JOHNS, KANSAS: Our society was organized July 8, 1899, by our mission president, Elder Wm. Jack, and we now have seventeen members enrolled. We have in our treasury, twenty dollars. We have given one ice cream social, from which we cleared five dollars and seventy cents. We have pieced two quilts, and quilted three; also made three comforts and sewed carpet rags. We have held twenty-five working and testimony meetings.... —Lucy Breckenridge, Pres. Margaret Budge, Sec. FOR EVER If I had thought our parting was for ever I should have wept, That day when 'twixt the low hill and the heather The dead day crept— If I had thought that no more should we linger, Just you and I If I had thought — Nay, rather thinking over Of days long gone, I can look back, remembering, though we sever, Our hearts are one! —C. E. C. Weigall VISIT OF A NOTABLE WOMAN: The last week in November, we expect Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson, poet, author and lecturer. She is the granddaughter of Lyman Beecher, and grand niece of Henry Ward Beecher, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Isabella Beecher Hooker. Mrs. Stetson will be the guest of Mrs. A. W. McCune while in Salt Lake City, and of Mrs. Susa Y. Gates in Provo, where she is expected to speak under the auspices of the Brigham Young Academy. Arrangements are in progress for a series of lectures in this city. Mrs. Stetson not only comes of the celebrated Beecher stock, but is also descended from the remarkable New England Perkins family Her book, Women and Economics, is everywhere regarded as the bravest, brightest, most origina] and most readable volume on women. —KEditorial Note Page 656 Miss ELAINE WHITELAW, National Director for Women's Activities for the National Foundation, at a luncheon in Salt Lake City in June, presented the Foundation's highest award, the Silver Plaque, to two organizations. Mrs. Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society, received the award for that organization. Mrs. C. R. Lomax, Vice-President of the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs, received the award for her group. The awards were given for the support of the polio emergency volunteer program, the vaccination program, and the annual March of Dimes. HIRLEY O'NEILL, nineteen, was awarded a silver medal and $750 for rescuing a classmate who was attacked by a shark at Baker's Beach, California. The medal, given by the Carnegie Hero Fund Commission, was only the fourth such award to be presented since 1955. MARGUERITE MARY GAHAGAN, formerly a reporter for the Detroit News, is now editing and publishing a weekly newspaper North Woods Call, "a paper for all who enjoy the north country." It is printed in the little town of Roscommon, Michigan, and is known as one of the most interesting and unusual newspapers in the country.