[Vol46 | October 1959 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
EDITORIAL c~2 VOL. 


 NO. 10 &stablishing Family Patterns OW many a young girl has stood embarrassed while her father and mother have queried a young man calling to take her out, "Let's see, your father is Joseph, and was his father Horace or James?" It is a welcome relief to her to escape outside and forget who his progenitors are. She isn't going out with them! But back home Father and Mother pursue the conversation further, commenting on the maternal family side and, perhaps, recalling Cousin Harry who has turned out to be a ne'er-do-well. Wise parents consider every young person with whom their son or daughter dates, as a possible candidate for marriage, and family backgrounds are considered in that light. Latter-day Saint parents have unusual opportunities to acquaint themselves with the family background of other members of the Church, even those who may live far away. Because of the closely knit activities of Church members, a stake or mission president, ward bishop or branch president can usually supply desired information. With some exceptions members of a family create a family pattern into which the majority of family members fit. Most Latter-day Saint families are descendants of Ephraim, and we know that members of the tribe of Ephraim were taught to marry within that tribe, as were the Page 658 members of the tribe of Manassch and the other tribes, descendants of I Jacob, so that tribal characteristics were kept strong and pure. Thus there are great common heritages on which to build. In seeking to learn of a family pattern, it is not the worldly goods on which the decision is to be based, but on the industry, integrity, and faithfulness to the gospel of the family, with special application to the individual in particular. Generation after generation in the Church certain families are recognized as stalwart families and the number is continually being increased by the addition of converts. The Church teaches the need to have pride in one's family and to honor and uphold the family name. A circumstance is recalled of an opportunity taken by a President of the Church at a funeral when he called upon remaining members of a noted family to be more faithful and worthy of their great progenitors. Pride in family must be a righteous pride with the remembrance that the meek shall inherit the earth. It is well for a mother to teach her children of the good deeds and faithfulness to the Church of those progenitors who first joined the Church, and of the persecutions and trials which they underwent. Where a family is a first generation family in the Church, the circum- EDITORIAL stances of the parents' conversion as well as the worthiness of past generations not in the Church should be stressed. Following the cherished patterns of the past, a mother and father can weave their own family pattern ever stronger and more beautiful through their daily examples and teachings. 'To a neighber child asking for a family member to come out and go on a picnic on the Sabbath, it becomes a natural habit to reply, "We don't do that in our family on Sunday." Setting and maturing such a_pattern may not always be easy, but once it ls attained there is cause for a parent's heart to rejoice. Some children are naturally more obedient than others, but if the example of hallowing the Sabbath day and other righteous patterns begin in the cradle and are persisted in, parents are usually rewarded with children who are obedient to family ideals. There are instances, however, when indifferent Church members may remark, "Well, I was forced to go to Church when I was a child, and I'm going to let my children choose the Church they want when they are old enough to know what they want." Such an attitude on the part of parents may indicate a lack of understanding between themselves as children and_ their parents. The family pattern was evidently imprinted on a rebellious heart, and when the imprint was loosed by the child gaining independence, it was broken and cast aside. Outward compliance is not enough to ensure the continuance of a family pattern — gaining awards and perfect attendance will not ensure nghteous adult behavior. There 659 is need for love and understanding between a mother and each child as an individual. She must be sure that the family pattern has taken root and will grow independently, nourished by each family member. Where a child himself takes responsibility of cheerfully and willingly adhering to the family pattern, it will continue to set proper bounds to his conduct even though he leaves the home sanctuary. Young men are drafted into the armed services; young women leave home to attain independence. It is then that the strength of the family pattern is on trial. Wall the young man continue to follow his parents' teachings or will he seize the opportunity to do things which he has had to deny himself while under his parents' roof? Will the daughter continue to live as if under her parents' surveillance because she has decided she wishes to build the same kind of a life, or will false allurements lead into evil ways? When family patterns become firmly established in each new generation, it testifies not only of a family imprint exerting tremendous pressure from without, but also of an inward plhiability and acceptance by the child himself and his own nurturing of the pattern until it has an independent growth within his own soul. Wise parents realize this sacred obligation not only to train and set a proper pattern for their children, but also to influence the inner desires of their children in loving understanding to the end that their children will learn to depend upon their own convictions for righteous living. —M. C.5S. Fair or alse Faces ¢ HE face is the mirror of the soul. It reflects your character, fair or false. No mask of deceit, however clever its design, can hide for long your true personality — your real self. Fair: What a wonderful word! 'These are some of its dictionary meanings: "pleasing to the eye; beautiful; gracious; courteous; desirable; elegant; frank; honest; impartial; just." Page 660 FAIR OR FALSE FACES 661? By contrast, let's look at the word "false." 'These are some of its meanings: "dishonest; not faithful or loyal; untrue; treacherous; hypocritical; sham; feigned; not trustworthy." How hideous this image of that which is false! Fair or false—which will you choose? If you're smart, you'll choose the fair. You'll be fair in everything you do. Whether it's in sports or in the more serious game of life, you'll play fair; you won't cheat or chisel. You'll be fair with friends and associates by being just and generous. You'll cultivate a fair face and a fair figure by clean, healthy living. For your own sake, be fair, be just, be genuine, if you would be happy. Then, when you look in the mirror, your real face will reflect the honest thoughts you think, the honest words you speak, the honest life you live. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF —o<- ictraction Winona F. Thomas I went to paint an autumn scene With canvas, paints and brush. Only the music of the stream Disturbed the canyon's hush. I meant to do a rustic hut Beneath an old oak tree, But a squirrel in search of nuts Came and posed for me. <> All Js Well Elste McKinnon Strachan Though this hour is folded in darkness— No least moon lanterns the sky, Though the clouds are hidden in shadow, And no stars testify That God dwells in his heaven; We know, without doubt, he is there: His gentle rain washes the midnight, And pure is the wet, sweet air. Recipes From the lorthenn California ITlisston Submitted by Hazel S. Love CRAB AND SHRIMP SHELLS 1 can crab 8 hard-boiled eggs 1 can shrimp 2 tbsp. Chopped parsley 2 c. Soft bread crumbs 2 tsp. Minced onion 1% ¢. Table cream 1 tsp. Salt 1% c. Salad dressing " tsp. Pepper Remove stiff tendons from crab meat and black line from shrimps. Mix all ingrcdients together and put in patty shells and bake for fifteen minutes at 350°. Makes ten servings. Surimp SALAD IN Rinc Mo. Tp 2 tbsp gelatine juice of % lemon 1 c. Cold water 1 c. Celery diced 1 Cc, Mayonnaise 1 small green pepper diced 1 c. Whipping cream 1 small bottle stuffed olives, diced 4 hard-boiled eggss, diced 1% tsp. Salt Dissolve gelatine in cold water and place over pan of hot water to finish dissolving. Then cool. Add mavonnaise, mix with cream, whipped, and add remaining ingredients and pour in ring mold, When it is set, unmold and fill center with shrimp sauce. Shrimp Sauce:. Whipping cream "" ¢. Catsup. Mayonnaise 1 Ib. Fresh shrimp i c i4c¢ Whip cream, add mayonnaise and catsup. Add shrimp. Make sauce just before scrving. Makes twelve servings. Datr Nutr Breap 1 c. Boiling water 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Soda 1 egg 1 c. Chopped dates 2 c. Flour Y tsp.