[Vol46 | October 1959 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
[Literature — Two Early American Quakers: Penn and Woolman Briant S. Jacobs]

While most of these statements lack the beautiful cadence or the condensed power of literature, they are well-turned, while as a selective group they yield a true insight into the Quaker mind and heart. John Woolman (1720-1772) "Simple plainness, for the glory of God," might well have been the motto of this devout Quaker, whose life corresponds so closely to the dictates of his "Inner Light," and whose plain yet pictorial style of writing blends with its content to make an organic whole, and, therefore, enduring literature. Such "inward purity and grace" as glow forth from the pages of his Journal may be accepted as justly representing his own inward qualities of religious experience. 'The spiritual reality of the man, whether we are recalling his life of worldly renunciation and selfless missionary service or the restrained, smooth style which characterizes his writings, has made him a classical Quaker, and a most apt representative to us, both of his sect and of his time. He reduced his life (which was his religion) to its lowest common denominator, and in gentle sincerity pleaded with his fellow Quakers to do likewise. His denominator was that quotation from Jeremiah to Baruch, his scribe, which Woolman quotes in his Journal as he discusses the night, plain way of living: "Seek- 697 est thou great things for thyself? Seek them not." Early Life Born and reared on a New Jersey farm some twenty miles from Philadelphia, Woolman's quiet Quaker family taught him to follow the Bible and the promptings of his "Inner Light,' and to believe in the evil of war and all cruelty, the brotherhood of man, and the meaningless vanity of vanity in dress and social distinction, and the blasphemy of taking any oath. As his movingly simple account of his youth tells us, he loved to read the Bible, after age twelve never spoke harshly to his parents; however, he came to enjoy wanton company, and, then, realizing the error of his ways, he prayed for spiritual guidance "until I felt that rise which prepares the creature to stand like a 'Trumpet, through which the Lord speaks to his flock." He came to realize within himself, as in all men, a double quality: an animal selfishness and love of fleshly things, and the divine "Seed" or particle of God. It was man's duty to magnify this immortal Godness within him through self-discipline of tongue and action until it not only dominated his life, but became it. Thus Quakers worship by being silent together and by distrusting impetuous emotion, particularly the "Spirit of Fierceness'"' which causes malicious gossip, social cruelties, financial greed and ruthlessness, and finally wars. Woolman's self-mastery was so complete that his Inner Light became the dearest companion of his bosom; in his Journal he records how he knew within himself that he 698 "uttered words from an inward Knowledge that they arise from the heavenly Spring.' Thus triply armed, he was ready to act on his conviction that: true religion consisted in an inward life, wherein the heart doth love and reverence God the Creator, and learn to exercise true justice and goodness not only toward all men but also toward the brute creatures (Text, page 126). A successful tailor at twenty, his prosperity worried him: if his present trend continued, he might come to love money and _ success more than God and his fellow men. Enjoying the competent skill of his fingers when asked to make practical clothing, he came to loathe working on fancy gowns and coats which, he felt, could only flatter the "creaturely" impulses. Finally Woolman could no longer practice his tailoring trade and maintain inner peace, so objectionable did he find the pursuit of wealth and the symbols of wealth people sought after with such unholy passion. Woolman believed that men should seek after spiritual wealth by doing good to their fellows in mortality. So firmly did he abhor worldly display and the labor necessary to creating it, that on his trip to England he traveled steerage, since he "observed sundry sorts of carved work and imagery" decorating the _ betterclass cabins. Finally, in complete contrast to Puritan philosophy (and that of some of his wealthy fellowQuakers) he renounced all allegiance to the usual pattern of wealth-seeking: Wealth desired for its own sake -obstructs the increase of virtue, and large possessions in the hands of selfish men RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER '1959 have a bad tendency, for by their means too small a number of people are employed in useful things, and some of them are necessitated to labor too hard... (Text, page 124). Woolman, Self-Appointed Missionary Practicing tailoring intermittently, Woolman was also a scrivener, or copier of public records, yet so. Strongly did he oppose cruelty or ungodliness in human relations that he refused to copy bills of sale for Slaves. Once he attained his mature conviction that slavery was one of the greatest evils in God's eyes, he gave up the use of sugar, since it was a product of slave labor in the West Indies. On his own time and at his own expense, he visited Quakers throughout the thirteen colonies to advocate a policy of kindness and fairness toward the Indian, and against the practice of slavery. So successful was he that Rufus Jones, probably the strongest Quaker leader of the twentieth century, gives John Woolman the credit for first causing wealthy Quakers to give up their practice of slavery. His opposition to slavery was not caused by possibility that the slaves might be mistreated, but that it tended to extinguish the idea of God, not only within the slave but even more within the heart of the slaveholder. In his book A Plea For the Poor, published in 1763 in his forty-third year, he opposes oppression—oppression of oxen overloading and overworking them; oppression of Negroes by keeping them enslaved; oppression of the poor by overcharging them, for if our great concern is to lay up riches, and therefore our demands toward the poor: LESSON DEPARTMENT.. Are such as requires greater Toyl, or application to business in them, than is Consistent with pure Love, we invade their rights as Inhabitants of that World, of which a good and gracious God is proprictor, under whom we are Tennants. Woolman's Prose Style Increasingly in his later maturity John Woolman believed as he practiced, that if a thing is not useful it cannot therefore be good. His literary style incarnates this belief, being so plain as to seem at times almost austere. However, since most of his manuscript he revised with considerable care, such an effect of direct simplicity must have best expressed his _ personality. George Fox had written, "Use plainness of speech and plain words'— to express a plain, simple devotion to God. Woolman's words achieve their classic beauty from their calculated simplicity, not only of tone, but of content. The organic blending of container with contained is the source of his literary power, best seen in excerpts from his Journal. Read aloud several times, his first sentence sets the tone of belief and inner peace: I have often felt a motion of love to leave some hints of my experience of the goodness of God; and pursuant thereto, in the thirty-sixth year of my age, I begin this work (Text, page 124). After stating his place and date of birth, he recalls an incident which happened before his seventh birthday:. As I went from school one Seventh Day, I remember, while my companions went to play by the way, I went forward out of sight, and setting down I read the twenty-second chapter of the Revelation: "He shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the 699 throne of God and of the Lamb," etc.; and in the reading of it my mind was drawn to seek after that pure habitation which I then believed God had prepared for His servants. The place where I sat and the sweetness that attended my mind remain fresh in my memory (Text, page 124). Sometime after his ninth year an event occurred which predicts his later concern for kindness, both in man's relations with his own kind as in his treatment of animals:.

As T went to a neighbor's house, I saw, on the way, a robin sitting on her nest, and as I came near she went off but, having young ones, flew about and with many cries expressed her coneern for them. I stood and threw stones at her till, one striking her, she fell down dead. At first I was pleased with the exploit, but after a few minutes was seized with horror, as having in a sportive way killed an imnocent creature while she was careful for her young. I beheld her lying dead, and thought those young ones for which she was so careful must now perish for want of their dam to nourish them; and after some painful consideration on the subject, I climbed up the tree, took all the young birds, and killed them, supposing that better than to leave them to pinc away and die miserably; and believed in this case that Scripture proverb was fulfilled: "The tender mercies of the wicked are cruel." I then went on my errand, but for some hours could think of little else but the cruelties I had committed, and was much troubled (Text, page 125). Such simple and direct dramatization of his own tender experience, cast in pure and beautifully cadenced prose, makes memorable reading. Growing older, he learned that "true religion consisted in an inward life, wherein the heart doth love and reverence God the Creator, and learns to exercise true justice and goodness." Sceing God's presence in visible nature, he felt "an awful- 700 ness" cover him, followed by tenderness and universal love toward his fellow creatures: This will be understood by such who have trodden in the same path. Some glances of real beauty may be seen in their faces who dwell in true meekness. There is a harmony in the sound of that voice to which Divine love gives utterance, and some appearance of right order in their temper and conduct whose passions are regulated; yet all these do not fully show forth that inward life to such as have not felt it, but this white stone [Revelation 2:17] and new name is only known rightly by such as receive it. After defining those who wear too costly apparel and who indulge in "too liberal use of spirituous liquors" as cases much to be pitied, he sees luxuries as evils to be overcome by using the self-discipline of Christ: Every degree of luxury hath some connection with evil; for those who profess to be disciples of Christ, and are looked upon as leaders of the people, to have that mind in them, which was also in Christ, and so stand separate from every wrong way, it ls a means of help to the weaker I have felt an increasing care to atNote: The 19 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 tend to that Holy Spirit which sets right bonds to our desires, and leads those who faithfully follow it, to apply all the gifts of Divine Providence to the purpose for which they were intended. On his way to the Indians as a solitary, self-appointed missionary when word came that they had just massacred some white men, he tefused to allow a companion to ac: company him, and "the Desire to cherish the Spirit of Love and Peace amongst these People arose very fresh in me," he went on alone, laboring among them for some months. While on a mission to England he died of the smallpox, greatly loved and respected by all who had known of his selfless, sincere life. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why was Pennsylvania America's first melting pot? 2. What do Quakerism and Puritanism have in common? How do they differ? 3. To you what is most appealing in William Penn's Fruits of Solitude? What is the outstanding literary quality of John Woolman's Journal? 59-60 Literature Packet, for use as visual aids, may be ordered only from the Audio-Visual Center, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, price $3.75 postpaid. See advertisement in The Relief Society Magazine, September 1959, page 635. The General Board of Relief Society does not fill orders for this Packet.