[Column 1]
world. Our mission is to look after the
poor and the sick, encourage those who
are downhearted, we should not be gos-
sipers; encouraged wives and mothers to
live worthy lives. I feel we have a warm
welcome here, I feel you are united.
	Stake President Wm. Seegmiller. “I
enjoy very much in meeting with you, in
this new building, feel the Spirit of God
is in our midst, great credit is due, to
those who had the matter in hand. Be
wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.
It is a grand thing to meet people, who
have the same object in view; spoke in
praise of the labors and efforts of the sis-
ters, hope you will be interested, and
every labor you do may stimulate to still
greater labors. What a wonderful mis-
sion is ours; may God bless us in all our
labors.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. after
singing and prayer.
	Conference continued at 2 p. m. Pre-
sident C. Sorensen presiding.
	After singing, prayer and other exer-
cises General and Stake Officers of the
Relief Society were unanimously sustain-
ed.
	President C. Ogelvie, Richfield, 3rd ward,
reported and then Sister Farnsworth
spoke of the good spirit in our midst, and
the building fund, for “Womans Building”
to be erected in near future, the brethren
had agreed to take the care of the build-
ing upon themselves. Encouraged the
stake to send more sisters to learn the
nurse course. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp to be
teacher this year. Many more nurses are
needed in our outlying stakes, spoke of
Sister Empy’s labors in this line, also of
saving grain. The Relief Society gave
20 tons of flour, to famine stricken Chinese
this summer, first car load of clothing,
etc., sent to San Francisco after earth-
quake and fire, was sent from the four
stakes of Salt Lake City. Encourage our
sons, to get acquainted with the Relief
Society meetings, it will be of great be-
nefit to them, when in the mission field.
We should be a light to the world, teach
our children to live moral lives.
	Sister Julina L. Smith said, almost
every point has been touched. We should
send our girls to Latter-day Saints’ homes,
when sending them to Salt Lake City to
work, gave some of her experiences with
girls; said my children always let me
know, when they come home at night.
We cannot fill a better mission than to
look after our children, and not send
them away or turn them out in the street,
begin when they are little, raise our girls
to make good mothers. Let our children
attend meetings, stay at home ourselves
if need be. The Relief Society is at the
head of Mutual and Primary Associations.
We feel the influence of Latter-day Saints
in our midst. We can give a good report
of your stake.
	Instrumental Music by Sister Josie
Christensen.
	Brother William Ogden said, he had
been acquainted with the labors of the
Society in building this hall, he had the
privilege of writing out the checks.
	President Minnie Nebeker and associ-
ates need praise for accomplishing this
task.
	Counselor Ellen Theuson, with feelings
of joy, we are trying to do our duty, felt
blessed to be a member of the Relief So-
ciety. Don’t let us neglect our duties,

[Column 2]
teach our children to pay tithing, in time
of trouble they will remember the teach-
ings of their mothers, let us be humble
and prayerful, we will all be tried.
	Sister Caroline Bohman, Treasurer,
also paid tribute to the labor of the sis-
ters, said, the blessings, of the Lord are
with us, in our efforts to do our duty. We
are fed by the Spirit of the Lord in our
meetings.
	President C. Sorensen always enjoyed
Relief Society meetings, rejoiced in the
work; was thankful to those who enter-
tained us, also to the singers. Let us
continue in good works. God bless the
sisters visiting with us that they may re-
turn in safety.
	An officers meeting will be held after
this meeting.
	Sister Julina Smith also thanked the
singers.
	After the benediction Conference ad-
journed for three months.
			MARY M. SWINDLE,
						Secretary.


