RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		MALAD STAKE.
	The Malad Stake Relief Society Con-
ference was held at Riverside, Box Elder
county. Utah, Thursday, October 31, 1907,
President Julia A. Richards presiding.
Sister Emily S. Richards of the General
Board was present, also the Malad stake
presidency, President M. H. Welling,
Counselors Wm. Gibbs and Moroni Ward,
and all the sisters of the stake board of
Malad, several bishops, and representatives
from all the wards.
	After the opening exercises, five wards
were represented, and reported in each
instance as being in good working order,
fully organized and trying to follow out
the instructions given.
	Sister Emily S. Richards spoke earnest-
ly on the storing of grain, and said that
Sisters Smith and Wells each sent love
and greeting to the sisters of the Malad
stake. She advised the young ladies to
join the Relief Society and assist in mak-
ing the mother’s work a success. Gave
instructions concerning the laying out
and dressing of the dead. Spoke on the
necessity of guarding our tongues against
speaking evil of one another. Prest. M.
H. Welling followed with remarks along
the same lines.
	After singing and benediction, confer-
ence adjourned u ntil 2 p.
	Conference reassembled at 2 o’clock p.
m. Opening exercises as usual. Reports
from three wards were given, each in
good working order and interested in the
work.
	Prest. Julia A. Richards reported the
stake throughout as the officers found it
in traveling and holding meetings.
	The speakers were Sister Emily S.
Richards, Prest. M. H. Welling, Counsel-
or W. Gibbs and Bishop M. J. Richards,
the remarks being along the same line
as during the morning, that of speaking
evil of each other being foremost.
	Sister Emily S. Richards explained the
relationship existing between the Nation-
al Council of Women and the Relief So-
ciety as an organization.
	Treas. Ella S. Capener recited a poem
entitled “Woman,” selected from the
EXPONENT.
	The Spirit of the Lord was in our midst
and each one present felt that they had
indeed had a spiritual feast.
	Meeting closed by singing “Glory to
God on high.” Benediction by Sister
Elizabeth A. Jones.
				JOSIE K. HALES,
						Secretary.


