[Column 1]
	A BIRTHDAY GREETING.
	On Thursday evening, November 7,
1907, a few old-time friends and fellow-
missionaries on the Temple block assem-
bled at the home of one who had spent
many years of his life in the mission field,
exhorting, writing and expounding the
faith he embraced as a boy in another
land—Henry W. Naisbitt.
	The patriarch, with flowing white hair
and sightless eyes. surrounded by his 
family and friends, reminded us of the
Ancient of Days, whom we are told gath-
ered his posterity around him, giving
them of his wisdom and knowledge, and
prophesying of the future, before he de-
parted to another life.
	A hymn, “God moves in a mysterious
way,” was sung and commented upon.
	By request, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder read
“The Birthday Floral Cross” and “There
Shall be Light at Eventide, from Elder
Naisbitt’s book of poems, Rhymelets in
Many Moods:

How blessed that man, whose well filled years
	Of life's experience, tested, tried,
Enjoys in sunshine or in tears.
	Sweet “Light at Even-tide,”
	*	*	*	*	*	*
No conqueror ’mid the world’s applause,
	No monarch filled with regal pride,
So calmly waits as he who knows
	There’s “Light at Even-tide.”

True to his God, himself, the world,
	How nobly, yet with peaceful pride,
He points to Truth’s white flag unfurled
	’Mid “Light at Even-tide.”

When failing pulse foretells that life
	Is ebbing on death’s river side,
He feels around, with pleasure rife,
	Glad “Light at Even-tide.”

Ushered by angel bands, who dwell
	Where heaven undimmed, its gates set wide,
He needs no more that shade which fell—
	Earth’s “Light at Even-tide.”

	In behalf of the assembled friends and 
some who could not be present, Brother
Goddard presented the guest of honor
with a warm house coat, expressing the
desire that it should add to his comfort
and be a reminder of our friendship and
solicitude for his welfare. In closing, 
Brother Goddard spoke impressively of
Elder Naisbitt’s splendid record, ever
valiant for the truth, and of his gift—the
wisdom of a sage; adding his blessing
with that of thousands whom Brother
Naisbitt has blessed, and among whom
he has labored.
	Rising to his feet, weak and trembling, 
his voice often choked with a tide of emo-
tion, Brother Naisbitt responded with an
eloquence unspoken, to all that had been
done and said. At times he was reminis-
cent, speaking of days long gone, and
prophesying of the future of those who
loved and served the Lord,
	Abiding faith in the gospel was shown
when he spoke of his youngest son, Per-
cy, who had recently been crushed in an 
elevator, and whose recovery thus far is
a miracle, through faith in the Almighty.

[Column 2]
He further expressed the desire that Per-
cy should live, and carry the gospel tid-
ings to the nations afar. A happy time
of talking and blessing followed, all pres-
ent wishing Elder Naisbitt many more
birthdays—as many as be desired; and
then; all his heart craved in the Great
Beyond.
	After dainty refreshments were served,
the guests sang with spirit Brother Nais-
bitt’s own inspiration, “How swift the
months have passed away,” the author
recalling when it was first sung in the
“Old Bowery.”

	The happiest time must have an end,
	The saddest pass away.

	So we leave him in his daughter’s
peaceful home, with touch of hands, who
knows us but “by voice and memory, not by
sight,” taking with us here into the star-
ry night more than we had bestowed,
and the counsciousness that in doing good
ye are doubly blessed, and in blessing
blessings return.
						L. D. A.


