[Column 1]
		CHRISTMAS AGAIN.
	Around the Christmas tree,
	Join hands in charity
And hail with joy and praise whatever lights
			our way.
	And so Christmas has come again with
its hurly-burly and noise, and overflow of
playthings and toys for the little girls and
boys—Santa Claus himself to distribute
their gifts and fill the stockings, little and
big by the chimney piece and on chairs
and tables and the Xmas trees, great and
small, in parlor or bedroom or hall, any-
where that there is room enough. O the
delight of the children, what joy and
pleasure it brings to the home, even
though some of the elder ones are full
of cares and anxieties or sorrows, yet the
children’s mirth and playfulness, songs
and laughter cannot but bring rays of sun-
shine into the saddened hearts, and there-
fore it is good to have the Christmas
time, whether the snow falls, or the wind
blows, or whatever troubles assail us from
without, or within no matter.
	Xmas comes to all, rich and poor, high
and low, and it is as welcome in the
humble cottage, as in the lordly mansion.
	It may be that all do not realize its true
meaning, or give heed to the admonitions
that might be of real benefit to them, but
it always brings thoughts and reflections
naturally; there are few people in the
world who are not touched with kindli-
ness in some degree at Christmas, and as
the years roll on the sentiment, the feel-
ing that the day inspires does not die out,
indeed, one might say Christmas “wears
well,” we never tire of it, especially the
children and those who enter into the in-
nocent spirit, and the pastimes of the lit-
tle folks; the Savior whose birth we cele-
brate loved little children, and gave the
pattern for all to follow, when He said to
His disciples, “Except ye become as lit-
tle children ye shall not enter into the
kingdom of heaven.”
	It is good sometimes to banish care
and if possible forget, or lay aside the
everyday worries, annoyances and per-
plexities that trammel us and make us
irritable, and hinder, whole-hearted en-
joyment; but if only one could be joyous
and care-free for the sake of the children it
would be better for one’s own health as
well as happiness; and in the years to
come the children grown to man and
womanhood will recall with greater pleas-
ure how father and mother and the older
members of the family entered into the
Christmas spirit with them, when they
were of a young and tender age; and they
will not only follow the example set for
them but will recount to their flock of
little ones the childish sports and games,
and fairy tales of their own happy child-
hood, and thus perpetuate the family
history on its social side in a way to make
a lasting impression. Nothing is more
true on this subject or expresses the idea
we desire to convey than the singing in
the home of the songs and hymns of the
times, and of the past, Mrs. Heman’s
exquisite poem, “The Songs of Our
Fathers,” reiterates the thought; we quote
here a verse or two—
	The songs their souls rejoiced to hear,
		When harps were in the hall,
	And each proud note made lance and spear
		Thrill on the banner'd wall.
	The songs that through our valleys green,
		Sent on from age to age.
	Like his own river’s voice have been
		The peasant’s heritage,

[Column 2]
	So let it be—a light they shed
		O’er each old fount and grove;
	A memory of the gentle dead,
		A lingering spell of love.
	Murmuring the names of mighty men,
		They bid our streams roll on
	And link high thoughts to every glen
		Where valiant deeds were done.
	So shall each unforgotten word
		When far those loved ones roam,
	Call back the hearts which once it stired
		To childhood’s holy home.
	Sing to your sons those melodies,
		The songs your father’s loved.
	The writer does not only wish for the
old songs, but for the old memories to be
handed down, remembrances of the genial
days of life that when the little ones now
clustering round the Christmas fireside,
or the Christmas tree, or playing at the
father’s knee are grown they may carry
into the years to come that beautiful home
picture of Christmas or holiday times in
the early home and rehearse such themes
to the children of that later time.
	Banish care and gloom for a day, or a
few hours (whatever the cause) for the
sake of the children. The English people
have many simple pastimes and cus-
toms that have been continued down the
ages almost, and they are very impressive,
although some writers tell us that now in
England, Christmas is not what it once
was. “The world has become more
worldly, more of dissipation and less of
enjoyment. The traditionary customs of
golden-hearted antiquity, its feudal hos-
pitality and lordly wassailings have passed
away with the baronial castles and state-
ly manor-houses in which they were cele-
brated. They comported with the shadowy
hall, the great oaken gallery, and the tap-
estried parlor, but are unfitted to the
light, showy saloons and gay drawing-
rooms of the modern villa.”
	Yet, now among the peasantry many of
the pretty customs are still kept up, ever-
greens distributed from house to house,
the sound of the waits on the midnight
air, however rude the minstrelsy may
be, awakens sentiment and breaks the
midnight watches, and reminds one that
the season of festivity and of peace and
of good will to all mankind has returned,
and that mutual greetings of relatives and
friends is being proceeded with even
though we have radiators instead of the
great open fire, and Teddy Bears in the
place of rag-dolls or real ones, but let us
hope and believe, and perpetuate if possi-
ble, the gathering of kindred and friends
and the open hearted hospitality of “ye
olden time.’’
	But at family holiday dinners or ban-
quets, there is usually inadvertently much
historic matter in the conversation that
one may glean for his own benefit or
future use, though there may prevail an
innocent hilarity and a spirit of revelry,
mingled with the songs and jests and
superstitious legends.


