[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		SEVIER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Se-
vier Stake convened in Richfield Relief
Society Hall at ten a. m. June 22, 1907.
Stake President Christina W. Sorensen
presiding.
	Sisters Julina L. Smith and Julia P. M.

[Column 2]
Farnsworth, from the General Board, who
were visiting our stake, were present.
	After opening exercises President C.
Sorensen welcomed the visiting sisters
and all present.
	President Mary E. Magleby read an ad-
dress from President B. W. Smith, to
officers of the Relief Society after which
President C. Sorensen said, she was
pleased to meet in this new Relief So-
ciety Hall, it is a beautiful building. Re-
ported the labors of the Stake Board,
said we are united, we feel our weakness,
but with the blessings of the Lord we try
to do our duty. We visit each ward once
a year, have twenty branches in the
stake, find the sisters united and energet-
ic, and ready to comply with instructions
given. She spoke of the stake business
meetings, where we get reports, we have
no helps, but expect presidents and coun-
selors of the different branches to be our
helps. Also of Missionary Sisters visiting
each others Society and bringing in re-
ports of improvement to all, those who
are visiting and those who are visited.
We feel highly honored, to have Sisters
Julina L. Smith and Julia P. M. Farns-
worth from the General Board with us
today.
	President Minnie Nebeker of the first
ward Richfield spoke of the new building
we are permitted to meet in today, it is
not quite finished so we cannot dedicate
it today as anticipated. About a year ago
we had some over $700 from selling build-
ing of former Relief Society. On last
Thanksgiving Day each sister donated $1.
We met with the Bishopric, counseled
with them, we asked the brethren in the
ward how much they loved their wives
and in this way we raised between $500
and $600. Bishop Heber Christensen and
William Ogden and many others assisted
materially. We have made our hall large
as we found the need of a house to
meet in socially and have parties, and en-
courage the young people to meet with
us and enjoy the Spirit of the Lord.
	Sister Nebeker also gave a Lecture,
“Sphere of Woman”, made many beauti-
ful remarks, a good woman ever being
dispenser of love and joy in every home,
and using a good influence where ever
she may be.
	Vocal Solo by Sister Anna Orrock and
company.
	President Henrietta Wright, Richfield,
2nd ward, spoke of holding meeting each
Monday at 3 p. m. Sisters feel blessed
in visits of teachers, also spoke of the Re-
lief Society house, and congratulated Sis-
ters of the 1st ward, to have such a nice
place to meet in, and enjoy young peo-
ple socially.
	Sister Julina L. Smith felt more than
pleased to meet with the sisters, said “I
can feel the Spirit, that you are united,
it is the nicest Relief Society Building I
have seen. Every one has donated free-
ly. This Society is not only for older
sisters, but young mothers should be cal-
led to visit with the sisters who are older.
Said President B. W. Smith sent her love
to all. Gave some of her experiences in
taking care of old ladies; she loved to
visit with the sisters, almost every sister
can bear her testimony.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth spoke of
the new hall, and of the other two halls
in Richfield, also of the lecture given by
President Minnie Nebeker, she said our
husbands are the best husbands in the


