[Column 1]
tabernacles of flesh upon this earth. We
also read in Genesis of the creation of the
plants and herbs. “Every plant of the field
before it was in the earth, and every herb
of the field before it grew.” And further,
“And I the Lord God had created all the
children of men, and not yet a man to
till the ground, for in heaven created I
them, and there was not yet flesh upon
the earth, neither in the water, nor in
the air; but I the Lord God, spake and
there went a mist from the earth and
watered the whole face of the ground.
And I the Lord God, formed man from
the dust of the ground and breathed into
his nostrils the breath of life, and man
became a living soul, the first flesh upon
the earth, the first man also; neverthe-
less all things were before created but
spiritually were they created and made
according to my word.”
	We believe there are many spirits yet
(yes waiting) to come forth upon this
earth in this dispensation, before the
Millennium, and that they have a right to
be well-born and also to have a body for
their spirits to dwell in, free from disease
and evil, if possible.
	We believe in redemption from the
curse placed upon woman. If you ask
why, we tell you it is a part of our re-
ligion, and we are working to bring it to
pass. In the last days, all things are to
be restored as they were in the beginning.
Eve was created equal with Adam, though
Adam was first. Genesis 1: 27, “So God
created man in His own image, in the
mage of God created He him, male and
female created He them.” In verse 28,
God said, “Be fruitful and multiply and
replenish the earth, and subdue it, and
have dominion,” etc. Woman then was
also given dominion. After the fall, in
chapter 3, verse 16, God said to woman,
“In sorrow shalt thou bring forth chil-
 dren, and thy desire shall he to thy hus-
band, and he shall rule over thee,” plain-
ly showing it had not been so in the be-
ginning.
	Woman will be redeemed from that
curse, as sure as the sun shines or the
Lord lives. And the man and the woman
will be equal, except there must neces-
sarily always be a first, and the man is
first.
	In the Church termed “Mormon,” wo-
men have always voted in all Church as-
semblies, on all questions relating to
temporal or spiritual matters, just as free-
ly as men, therefore it was not strange
that equal suffrage should be accorded to
our women at an early period. In fact,
woman suffrage is in keeping with the in-
stitutions of Mormonism and in harmony
therewith. Brigham Young was one of
the most progressive men of the age, and
the moment woman suffrage was talked
of, he favored it. The legislature then
in session in the winter of 1869 and 1870,
passed a bill giving women equal suffrage,
and the Hon. Abraham O. Smoot (father
of Senator Reed Smoot whose seat in the
Senate of the United States, is now be-

[Column 2]
ing contested) was the man who intro-
duced the bill, which passed, as you
doubtless know, and was signed by the
Secretary of State, the Hon. S. A. Mann,
then Acting Governor in the absence of
the Governor.
	As woman took the lead in the great
drama in the Garden of Eden and the
curse followed, and she suffered the con-
sequences; the daughters of Eve will, we
think, be instrumental in a great measure
through the Gospel in effecting the re-
demption of woman from the curse.
Christianity, so-called, wherever it exists
ameliorates the condition of woman, but
no vital power has yet redeemed her from
the curse. Woman in all countries
wields directly or indirectly the moving
influence for good or ill. History shows
that so long as woman maintained honor,
virtue and purity, grace and dignity as a
wife and mother, that nation had perma-
nency and influence.
	Here let me say the curse was not per-
petual, and that Eve was a willing instru-
ment in effecting a grand purpose for the
ultimate good of the human family, God
had so ordained.
	In the meridian of time the Savior
came, and introduced the Gospel, “which
before was preached unto Abraham,” and
after many centuries when men had
changed its ordinances and broken the
everlasting covenant, the Savion came
through a woman who had to suffer be-
cause of the manner of His birth, though
one cannot help feeling she had spiritual
recompense and consciousness of knowl-
edge others knew not of, yet it was a
woman who brought it about (or through
a woman) this atonement for Adam’s sin;
certainly we know God foreordained this
atonement, the Bible gives abundant
proof, nevertheless, woman took again
this prominent part, and again afterwards,
Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were
the first to go and tell the disciples that
Jesus had risen. In Matthew, chapter
xxviii, verse 9, “And as they went to tell
His disciples, behold Jesus met them, say-
ing, “All hail,” and they came and held
Him by the feet and worshiped Him. 10.
Then said Jesus unto them, “Be not
afraid; go tell my brethren, that they go
into Galilee and there they shall see me.”
	In view of all these things and many
more, how can one help thinking woman
will have some vital part in the great
work of redeeming her own sex, the
daughters of Eve, when she has played
so conspicuous a part, first in the Garden
of Eden; and as in the great drama of
the world woman is and has been a
vital, active force, so it will be at the
close of the most sublime drama ever in-
troduced upon any stage, woman in her
purity and magnanimity will rise victori-
ous, having finished the part assigned her
and made restitution. Redeemed from
the curse, her triumph, her song of vic-
tory will be greater and loftier far than
Miriam’s or Deborah’s of old.
	Shakespeare said, “All the world’s a

[Column 3]
stage, and all the men and women mere-
ly players; they have their exits and their
entrances, and one man in his time plays
many parts, his acts being seven ages.”
We most of us believe in Shakespeare,
except those who think Bacon wrote
Shakespeare, and I am not one who does,
and even if it were so, I prefer the truth,
if it is one, the other side takes away
all the dreams of one’s lifetime and ut-
terly destroys the beautiful past. To
pull down Shakespeare and put up Ba-
con is a cruel mockery.
	One can scarcely enter in a philosophi-
cal sense upon why a woman should de-
sire to be a “Mormon” without going
back into the history of the past. I am
aware that in this progressive age that
looking backward is out of fashion, yet
I must in order to explain matters sat-
isfactorily go back to the early days of
the Church, the world calls “Mormon.”
In the opening of this paper, I spoke of
the Gospel, its introduction and of Joseph
Smith receiving the priesthood. Now I
am going to tell you of something which
transpired previous to the Gospel’s being
brought to Kirtland, Ohio, the first gath-
ering place and where the first temple
was built.
	It was a vision and I shall give it in the
words of the woman who had the mani-
festation, and I have heard it many times
from her own lips.
	“My husband, Newel K. Whitney, and
myself, were Campbellites. We had been
baptized for the remission of sins, and
believed in the laying on of hands and
the gift of the spirit. But there was no
one with authority to confer the Holy
Ghost upon us. We were seeking to
know how to obtain the spirit and the
gifts bestowed upon the ancient Saints.
One night, it was midnight, as my hus-
band and I in our house in Kirtland were
praying to the Father to be shown the
way, the spirit rested upon us and a cloud
overshadowed the house. It was as
though we were out of doors. The house
passed away from our vision. We were
not conscious of anything but the pres-
ence of the spirit and the cloud that was
over us. We saw the cloud, and felt the
Spirit of the Lord. Then we heard a
voice out of the cloud saying: ‘Prepare to
receive the word of the Lord for it is
coming!’ At this we marveled greatly,
but from that moment we knew that the
word of the Lord was coming to Kirt-
land.”
	This kind of vision is spoken of by the
ancient Hebrews or Israelites the sacred
people who inherited the covenant as
“Daughter of the Voice.” This is said
to be the tradition of the sons and daugh-
ters of Judah. However this may be,
soon after this remarkable event, the Gos-
pel came to Kirtland.
