THE PROPHET JOSEPH’S BIRTHDAY.

Plucked fresh from an immortal paradise,
	Transplanted in a new and uncongenial clime,
To fulfill laws which nature’s works comprise;
	A purpose to achieve, coincident with time.

	The life of the Prophet Joseph from his
birth in the vale of the Green Mountains
to his tragic martyrdom is like a sublime
and heroic poem, and some day in the
future, one or more of our poets, young
or old, will give it with all the wondrous,
graceful and majestic unfolding from the
hearth where he was born, to the prison
from where his life was yielded up as a
sacrifice for his people, along with his
noble brother Hyrum, who was nearest
to him of all his kindred in life and in
death. The bond between these brothers
was of the most sacred character, uniting
these two great-hearted, magnanimous
men there must have been an invisible
altar of trust and consecration.
	It is most fitting that the Latter-day
Saints should celebrate the birth of the
greatest prophet since the days of the
Savior, and coming so nearly together
seems a strange coincidence. The beau-
tiful story of the birth of Joseph Smith is
most poetical, and it is gratifying to all
who love and revere his memory to know
that his birthplace has been so harmoni-
ously brought into touch with the origi-
nal arrangement of the old home. It
will undoubtedly be in the future, an ob-
ject lesson of great significance to the
people of our faith, and also to the unbe-
lieving and the inquiring stranger and
tourist. This simple fact of renovating
and beautifying the old home may be
more helpful than an epic poem, but both
are not too much to carry the message of
life and salvation to the world at large,
the. message delivered to Joseph Smith
when only a lad in his early boyhood.
	We have reason to be grateful for all
that has been done to perpetuate his
name, his great work and to show honor
to those who were true and loyal to him.
and to the Master’s work he came to do.
A  marvelous work and a wonder in the
midst of the earth in this dispensation of
the fulness of times. Every effort will be
made to make the birthplace of the
prophet attractive and to preserve at the
same time all the old landmarks.
	In reviewing the writings of men associ-
ated with the Prophet Joseph and in con-
versing with the few staunch men of his
time now living, it is difficult to select from

[Column 2]
among all one reads, or is told, incidents
that will appeal to those who only know
through history so little of his actual
heroic and prophetic character, and in-
deed it is difficult for those who knew
him personally, to talk of him in such
a way as to give reality to his nobility of
person and the grandeur of his charac-
teristics and aspirations.
	It is not possible to put on paper the
beauty of some special phases and say-
ings of the Prophet Joseph to attempt it is
to make one feel the insignificance of the
written account compared to the sub-
limity of the actual scenes as portrayed in
life.
	It has been said frequently of late that
the Prophet predicted the gathering of
this people to the Rocky Mountains.
Elder Anson Call tells most graphically
one of these prophetic visions.
	At a meeting of Freemasons in the
town of Montrose, Iowa, on the west side
of the Missirsippi, Joseph Smith while
conversing with his brother uttered the
remarkable prophecy that the Saints
would be driven to the Rocky Mountains.
Elder Anson Call was present and gives a
detailed account.
	“On the 14th of July, 1843, the Prophet
Joseph with quite a number of his breth-
ren crossed the Mississippi river to the
town of Montrose, to be present at the in-
stallment of the Masonic Lodge of the
‘Rising Sun.’ A block school house had
been prepared for the occasion with a
shade in front under which was a barrel
of ice water. Judge George Adams was
the highest Masonic authority in the State
of Illinois and had been sent there to or-
ganize this lodge. The Judge, Hyrum
Smith and J. C. Bennett being high Ma-
sons went into the house to perform some
ceremonies which the others were not
entitled to witness, they, including Joseph
Smith, remained under the bowery,
Joseph as he was tasting the cold water,
warned the brethren not to be too free
with it.
	“With a tumbler still in his hand he
prophesied that the Saints would yet go
to the Rocky Mountains. Brother Call
says, “I had before seen him in vision,
and now saw while he was talking, his
countenance change to white not the
deadly white of a bloodless face, but a
living, brilliant white. He seemed ab-
sorbed in gazing at something at a great
distance,” and said “I am gazing upon
the valleys of the mountains.” This
Brother Call says was followed by a vivid
description of the scenery of these moun-
tains as I have since become acquainted
with it.
	“Pointing to Shadrack Roundy and
others he said: “There are seme men
here, who shall do a great work in that
land.” Pointing to me he said, “There
is Anson, he shall go and shall assist in
building cities from one end of the coun-
try to the other; and you, rather extend-
ing the idea to all those he had spoken
of shall perform as great a work as has
been done by man, so that the nations of
the earth shall be astonished, and many
of them will be gathered in that land and
assist in building cities and temples, and
Israel shall be made to rejoice.”
	The writer says, “It is impossible to
represent in words this scene, which is
still vivid in my mind of the grandeur of
Joseph’s appearance, the beautiful de-
scriptions of this land, and his wonderful

[Column 3]
pathetic utterances, as they emanated
from the glorious inspiration which over-
shadowed him.” There was a force and
power in his exclamations of which the
following is but a faint echo:
	“Oh the beauties of these snow-capped
mountains! the, soul refreshing streams
that are running down through these
mountain gorges! Then gazing in another
direction as if there was a change of
locality: “Oh the scenes that this people,
will pass through! The dead that will lie
between here and there.” Then turning
as if the scene changed again, “Oh the
apostacy that will take place before my
brethren reach that land!”
	Elder Call continues: “Although I felt
that Joseph was wrapt in vision, and that
his voice was the voice of God, little did
realize the vast significance of those pro-
phetic declarations compared with what
do now, with the experience of forty-
five years, that has intervened since they
were uttered. As he concluded the door
of the house opened and we entered the
building to transact the business for which
we had gathered.”
	The writer herself recalls, Mother Whit-
ney’s vivid picture of the appearance and
manner, and beauty of the countenance
of the Prophet Joseph when dictating to
his scribe in an upper chamber of her
house in Kirtland. But the things that
are written and the things that are told
fall far short of the reality. It is
good that the Spirit of God has made
manifest to many who have not seep the
Prophet the truth of his divine mission
here upon the earth.


