[Column 1]
‘Aye, look upon this dreary, desert path,
	The thorns and thistles wheresoe’er we turn,
What trials, and what tears, what wrongs and
		wrath,
What struggles, and what strife the journey
		hath!
	She has escaped from these, and lo! we
		mourn.”
	Sister Priscilla Smith was a most estim-
able young woman, bright and attractive;
a favorite with her young companions at
school and wherever she was known,
She was active in organization work in
the Sunday School and was for years a
teacher in the Junior Theological class,
and also for a number of years president
of the Primary Association of the 17th
ward. She was actively identified with
the Y. L. M. I. A., and a teacher in one
of the departments of that Association.
The educational training and discipline
of the work of these various organizations
prepared her for the higher work and the
broader sphere of the Relief Society, as a
missionary of the General Society among
the several stakes of Zion. For a num-
ber of years and up to the time of her
marriage she had been very efficient in
her duties and in traveling and speaking;
North, south, east and west she traveled
quite extensively in the several stakes of
Zion, visited Mexico, Arizona, California,
Idaho, Wyoming, Colorado, and in near-
ly every stake in Utah. Few women as
young have taken hold of this work in
earnest and been as diligent and faithful
and tactful as Sister Priscilla was. She
will be sincerely mourned by the mem-
bers of the Board; we shall miss her
presence in our meetings, where she has
been a regular attendant. She was al-
ways cheerful and ready to respond to
any call made upon her if it was possi-
ble. She was an unusually interesting
speaker on subjects pertaining to the
work of the Society, along all the many
lines embraced in this great movement
for woman’s advancement. Sister Pris-
cilla was genuine, she could always be
depended upon, and she possessed all the
excellent traits of character that make a
womanly woman and a true and faithful
Saint.
“The loved and lost! Why do we call them lost?
	Because we miss them from our onward road;
God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crossed,
Looked on us all, and loving them the most,
	Straightway relieved them from life’s weary
		load.
“They are not lost—they are within the door
	That shut out loss, and every hurtful thing;
With angels bright, and loved ones gone before,
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore,
	And God Himself their Lord, and Judge and
		King.”
	Priscilla Smith was educated here in
Utah in the very best schools, and at-
tended some years the University of
Utah; being naturally gifted along intel-
lectual lines of study she took special
work in the Uuiversity, and later on, dur-
ing the last few years, took a special
course of study in the Agricultural College
at Logan.
	She had a wide circle of young friends
and was greatly apprectated by them.
She was a valued member of the Sun-
shine Club and other social circles. Add-
ed to the education of schools and univer-
sity studies, Miss Smith took a trip
abroad in 1903, in company with Miss
Rachel Edwards (a graduate of the Utah
University. and for many years a teacher
of marked ability in our public schools).

[Column 2]
They visited the largest and most cele-
brated cities in England and France,
taking in the art galleries, cathedrals
and places of historic interest, and en-
joyed to the utmost the brief time they
were able to spend in sight-seeing.
	Sister Priscilla was the daughter of
President George A. Smith and Susan E.
West Smith, and was born June 11, 1869,
in the old historic house known then and
now, as the Historian’s Office, east on
South Temple Street in this city, the
home of the family of President George
A. Smith for many years. It was there
she grew to womanhood,
	Miss Smith’s marriage to Elder George
S. Taylor, of Provo, was solemnized in
the Salt Lake Temple on Thursday, Oc-
tober 25, 1906, her brother, Apostle John
Henry Smith, performed the ceremony.
A reception was held in the evening at
the residence of her sister and brother-
in-law, Mr. and Mrs. W. N. Williams.
The reception was a delightful occasion,
attended by numerous relatives and
friends. Sincere congratulations and
many beautiful gifts of love and friend-
ship were tendered the happy couple,
and there was seemingly every prospect
of a long and happy life before them.
But alas! we know not what from day to
day may transpire. One short year of
wedded happiness and the home is made
desolate by the departure of the young
wife and mother. 
“Though lost to sight, to memory dear
	Thou ever wilt remain.”
	Sister Taylor’s babe was born Septem-
ber 19, 1907, and she never really rallied,
though at times great hopes were enter-
tained of her recovery. She passed peace-
fully away after months of pain and suf-
fering. Her husband and mother were
constantly with her, and her sisters and
other relatives near and dear were exer-
cising their faith, and rendering every as-
sistance possible under the cirsumstances.
Her sweet babe was then a little more
than six weeks old.
	The funeral services were held in the
Fifth ward chapel of Provo on Wednes-
day, November 6, 1907, Bishop Albert
Manwaring presiding, and excellent music
was furnished by the ward choir. The
speakers were President David John,
Patriarch John Smith, Apostle Reed
Smoot and President F. M. Lyman, who
offered sweet consolation to the bereaved.
There were very many floral offerings,
and the pure white casket that held the
remains was literally embowered in these
beautiful flowers from loving relatives
and friends. Sister Taylor was buried in
the Provo cemetery, near other members
of her husband’s family. The grave was
dedicated by Apostle John Henry Smith.
	A special car conveyed about sixty rel-
atives and friends from Salt Lake City
to attend the funeral services.
	“Farewell! The lonely word that parts
		Binds two in silence ever fast;
	Each throbs to each, these sundered hearts
		One in the sacred past.”


