		MILLARD STAKE.

	Relief Society Conference of Millard
Stake was held at Deseret, November 1,
1907, President Isabella E. Robison pre-
siding. There were present besides a
good representation of Society workers,
Sisters Carrie S. Thomas and Rebecca
Nibley of the General Board, Apostle
Francis M. Lyman, President A. A. Hinck-
ley and counselors of the stake presiden-
cy, and also a number of bishops.
	After the opening exercises, Prest. I. E.
Robison made a few opening remarks.
She was much pleased to have an Apostle
in attendance, also the sisters from the
General Board. Said the Deseret Relief
Society hall, which had just been com-
pleted, would be dedicated during this
meeting.
	The following presidents: Amelia A.
Cahoon of Deseret, Melissa Olsen of Fill
more, Naomi Theobald of Hinckley, Ma-
thilda Overson of Leamington—each re-
ported her respective society in good con-
dition; they were caring for sick and poor,
storing grain, and working for the ad-
vancement of the good cause.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas was pleased to
see the brethren present, as it gave
strength when speaking. It is a marvel
how the sisters accomplish so much in
building halls and granaries, caring for the
sick and needy, and many other things.
The Nurse Class is accomplishing much
good, and also the mother’s work. It
is better to study the child than the
book. “Our religion is a practical, every
day religion, and if we cannot study all
the books, may God help us to care for
the babies intelligently.”
	Sister Nibley spoke of her early expe-
rience in the work; advised the young
mothers to teach their children to pray,
also to pay tithing, and keep the Word of
Wisdom,that they may gain the blessings
of the Lord; for there is nothing worth
living for outside of the gospel of Jesus
Christ.
	The general and stake officers of the
Relief Society were then snstained unani-
mously.

[Column 2]
	Apostle F. M. Lyman spoke at length
on the duties of sisters in the Relief So-
ciety, also on tithing, prayer, the Word of
Wisdom, and the necessity of mothers
setting good examples before their chil-
dren; related some of his experiences in
early life, and said every sister in the
Church should belong to the Relief Soci-
ety and attend as much as possible.
	After singing “O, say what is truth,”
etc., the dedicatory prayer and benedic-
tion were pronounced by Apostle Lyman.
	Conference continued in an  evening
session, President Isabella E. Robison pre-
siding. Singing and prayer.
	Sisters Ada Wood of Holden, Lovell of
Oak City, Emily Thompson of Scipio,
and Elmira Styler of Oasis, each reported
her Society in good condition, working
in the cause, helping the needy and car-
ing for the sick.
	Prest. I. E. Robison said the Relief
Society of Millard stake had paid annual
dues; each Society should hold monthly
board meetings; gave some instructions
about making reports and keeping correct
records.
	Sister Rebecca Nibley said the presi-
dent’s reports today had been very grati-
fying to her; it showed that the sisters
were alive to their calling; thought there
had been much good accomplished by send-
ing missionaries from the General Board;
gave some of her experience in the mis-
sionary work; spoke of the Nurse Class as
a good thing for our girls, as it gave them
great opportunities for helping others.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas referred to
the History being issued by the Relief
Society, and explained why it had not
been published. We have had good in-
structions, are we going to profit by it?
If we do not, inspiration is no good to us.
Endorsed the remarks of Apostle Lyman
this afternoon, especially on the Word of
Wisdom—the Lord knows what is good
for his children.
	Prest. Robison made a few closing re-
marks; benediction by Amelia A. Cahoon.
