		BE A MORMON.”

	(Written by special request and read at
Womens’ Clubs in New York.)
	“Pure religion as taught by Jesus Christ
is a life, a growth, a divine spirit within,
coming out in love and sympathy and
helpfulness to our fellow-men.”
	I realize that my subject is a most deli-
cate one to write upon, knowing as I do,
how “Mormonism,” so-called, is looked
upon by those who are unacquainted with
the people called “Mormons.” What-
ever I may say must be from my point of
view, and will assuredly be in accordance
with facts, largely of my own personal
knowledge, and wholly on the woman’s
side of the question, according to the title
given me.
	What the world terms “Mormonism,”
we call the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which
our Savior says is “the power of God un-
to salvation,” etc. We believe the ever-
lasting Gospel has been restored to the
earth in this last dispensation of the ful-
ness of times. Rev. 14: 6 reads, “And I
saw another angel fly in the midst of
heaven, having the eyerlasting Gospel to
preach unto them that dwell on the earth,
and to every nation, and kindred, and
tongue, and people.,’ It is the belief and
firm conviction of the Latter-day Saints
that the angel came, that the Gospel was
restored to the earth, that Joseph Smith
was commissioned from heaven to declare
unto the children of men the restoration
of all things that had been before time,
that he was ordained by Peter, James
and John to the same priesthood they
held, and that he ordained his followers
in like manner.
	Since that time, notwithstanding all the
drivings, mobbings and persecutions, the
Elders of the Church have gone forth,
preaching the Gospel and baptizing those
who became converted, until the sound
thereof has reached many lands and
climes, kindreds, tongues, and peoples.
	Our Articles of Faith are:
	1. We believe in God, the Eternal
Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and
in the Holy Ghost.
	2. We believe that men will be pun-

[Column 2]
ished for their own sins, and not for
Adam’s transgression.
	3. We believe that through the atone-
ment of Christ, all mankind may be saved
by obedience to the laws and ordinances
of the Gospel.
	4. We believe that the first principles
and ordinances of the Gospel are: (1)
Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; (2) Re-
pentance; (3) Baptism by immersion for
the remission of sins; (4) Laying on of
hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost.
	5. We believe that a man must be
called of God, by prophecy, and by the
laying on of hands, by those who are in
authority, to preach the Gospel and ad-
minister in the ordinances thereof.
	6. We believe in the same organization
that existed in the Primitive Church, viz;
apostles, prophets, teachers, evangelists,
etc.
	7. We believe in the gift of tongues
prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, in-
terpretation of tongues, etc.
	8. We believe the Bible to be the word
of God, as far as it is translated correctly;
we also believe the Book of Mormon to
be the word of God.
	9. We believe all that God has re-
vealed, all that He does now reveal, and
we believe that He will yet reveal many
great and important things pertaining to
the Kingdom of God.
	10. We believe in the literal gathering
of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten
Tribes; that Zion will be built upon this
(the American) continent; that Christ
will reign personally upon the earth;
and that the earth will be renewed and
receive its paradisiacal glory.
	11. We claim the privilege of worship-
ing Almighty God according to the dic-
tates of our conscience, and allow all men
the same privilege, let them worship how,
where, or what they may.
	12. We believe in being subject to
kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates,
in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the
law.
	13. We believe in being honest, true,
chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in do-
ing good to all men; indeed, we may say
that we follow the admonition of Paul,
We believe all things, we hope all things,
we have endured many things, and hope
to be able to endure all things. If there
is anything virtuous, lovely. or of good
report or praiseworthy, we seek after
these things.—Joseph Smith.
	We believe in the pre-existent state,
that we are created spiritually or existed
in the spirit world before coming here,
that we consented to come, that we
might have a body for our spirits to dwell
in. This pre-existent state is often spoken
of as primeval childhood, or first estate.
The Lord said to Abraham, “And they who
keep their first estate shall be added upon,
and they who keep not this first estate
shall not have glory in the same kingdom
with those who keep their first estate;
and they who keep their second estate
shall have glory added upon their heads
forever and ever.”
	Moses sang, “Remember the days of old
		when the Most High divided to
the nations their inheritance, when He
separated the sons of Adam. He set the
bounds of the people according to the
number of the children of Israel.” The
population of the earth is fixed according
to the number of spirits appointed to take


