[Column 1]
	HOLLY AND EASTER LILIES.
	It is good to be able to give expression
to the finest feelings and the most deli-
cate emotions of one’s soul in language

[Column 2]
that is befitting the purest sentiment of
sorrow for one beloved, who has gone
forever from our vision in this mortal life.
It is rare indeed that even a poet can find
words, that will convey in rhythmical
measure the soulful tenderness, that will
touch the hearts of those, who also have
suffered the loss of the nearest and dear-
est companion or friend.
	In that beautiful book recently revised
and republished by Alfred Lambourne.
entitled “Holly And Easter Lilies,” we
find the pathetic word-picture in lines so
exquisitely touching to the human heart
that they thrill every fibre of one’s being
like sweet music of the harp when the
strings are touched gently by graceful
fingers.
	It is gratifying to realize there are liv-
ing poets, who have the divine fire burn-
ing in their souls, that can burst forth in-
to song when the heart is bruised and
bleeding. Love is immortal and let us re-
joice there are those, who can express its
deepest emotions in words for the multi-
tude, who are here today, and for the
generations of men and women yet to be
born, and pass through life’s experiences.
	We commend to all who love poetry,
and to all who believe in love, the Memo-
rial Edition of “Holly And Easter Lilies,”
and we have no hesitation in saying it is
one of the most touching tributes of ten-
der love and pure sentiment,—one could
pay to the wife of his bosom. Better by
far than the most costly monument of
cold marble; for the poem will live in
many hearts will soothe undoubtedly
many who are grief-stricken, and one can
imagine is a part of the soul and life of
the man, who poured forth in such elo-
quent language, the burden of his sadness
for the lost companion of his youth, the
mother of his children.
	The poem as previously published was
one Mrs. Lambourne loved best, her fav-
orite of all her husband has written, and
he has consecrated it to her memory, as
one would dedicate a marble monument
or fountain; and aside from the soul-thril-
ling melody of the words the publication
of this little volume has cost its author in
money value, as much as a marble column
reared to her memory. It is like sacrilege
to allude to money value here, but in this
commercial age, it is almost imperative.
	The portrait of Mrs. Lambourne in the
book gives one little idea of the true
womanly wealth of love and sympathy,
she poured out lavishly upon her hus-
band, when he was toiling with pen or
brush, and his whole soul wrought upon
to give the true artistic tonches to his
work.
	The opening verse “To Wilhelmina
Marie” is exquisite in its thoughtful ten-
derness, but the closing lines carry in the
word “Forever” that which should be to
the writer a talisman of all he should
strive to gain for conjugal immortality of
hope and reunion Hereafter.
	The closing short poem “Rest” after
the year of sorrow had passed is full of
yearning and of grief unspoken, but the
writer hopes for all such sensitive souls,
the balm time carries on his wings in his
onward never-ending flight, may bring its
healing virtues, and that from the sorrow-
crushed spirit may come forth greater
courage and strength to comfort others,
who suffer, and it is well for all to re-
member; they are most triumphant who
are most tested.


