A LIKENESS.
Foxes have homes and each bird has a nest,
But the Son of God nowhere found safe place to
	rest,
From prison and judgment, to slaughter, was led,
And bravely met death, as old prophets had said.

But His cruel death did not satisfy hate,
And Saint Stephen and James met like merciless
	fate,
And Apostles of Jesus from Jerusalem fled,
And o’er all the wide earth, thus Christ’s gospel
	was spread.

So this Latter-day Prophet found no where to rest,
Was from place to place driven on mother earth’s
	breast,
From prison, without trial, to slaughter was led,
And bravely met death, as old prophets had said.

And the innocent blood shed that day for his cause
Drew his people together by the natural laws
Of enduring sympathy, brothers indeed
In their common sufferings, in their common need.

But their dead leader’s mantle fell on brave shoul-
	ders strong,
And westward he led them, singing ever this
	song
“O God of our fathers! Give to us oh give,
A good land of promise, where in peace we may
	live!”

So they prayed, toiled and marched, ’till as on,
	on, they pressed,
Reached they Galilee, Jordan and the Dead sea’s
	cold breast.
There they builded a temple, through forty long
	years,
And in blessings of plenty, forgot their past tears.

And thus persecution spread their faith in the west
And from there to all lands has the Church sent
	its best,
As the death of Jerusalem’s martyr gave birth
To the zeal of Christ’s teachers all over the earth.

Though temptation invite and assail day by day
From the good “Words of Wisdom” may they
	never more stray.
The whole world is watching to see how they live,
And a goodly example to the world they may give.

If this faith is of God, it will stand to the last,
If brewed in men’s brains, ’twould fall sure and
	fall fast,
By their fruits! By their fruits, shall their works
	all be known!
Let them keep up the record their past years have
	shown.
				ALICE PEET BISHOP.
			(An unprejudiced Gentile student of
				Mormon history.)
673 Seventh st., City.


