[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: DELEGATE FROM UTAH AT THE | Author: Unknown]

DELEGATE FROM UTAH AT THE
WOMAN’S CONGRESS.
	At the Congress of the International
Woman Suffrage Alliance, held in Amster-
dam, Holland, from June 15th to 21st, Dr. 
Romania B. Penrose attended as delegate
from Utah by the appointment of Governor
John C. Cutler. The meetings were held in 
the Concertgebouw, one of the most capa-
cious buildings in the city, and representa-
tives were there from all the civilized coun-
tries of the world. Part of the program was 
to have been short speeches on the practical
effects of woman suffrage, by delegates from 
Utah, Wyoming, Idaho and Colorado, the
four states of the American Union in which
woman suffrage has been for some time
established. The governors of those states


[Column 1]
had appointed delegates in response to an
invitation from the Alliance, but the dis-
tance being so great, none were present with
the exception of Dr. R. B. Penrose, who
delivered the following address, which was
reseived wfth much applause:
	The elective franchise was given to the
women of Utah by act of the Legislature in
1870, while Utah was a territory of the
United States, so that when the State was
organized and admitted into the Federal
Union in 1895; woman suffrage could not
be considered in the light of an experi-
ment. In the State Constitution which was
approved by the President of the United
States, a provision was incorporated placing
women on a political equality with men.
Every citizen of the United States, of either
sex, who has resided in the State one year,
in the county four months, and in the pre-
cinct thirty days next preceding an election
and who is twenty-one years of age, is en-
titled to vote at said election. This was
adopted by a large majority of the dele-
gates in the Constitutional Convention,
after a long and heated debate in which all
the old objections to woman suffrage were
brought forward and vanquished.
	The good effects of woman suffrage in
Utah are numerous. Among them are
these: The primaries, conventions, and
polling places are conducted in proper or-
der without unseemly wrangles, vulgar lan-
guage, and profanity, and free from the
uncleanness of tobacco-using, due respect
being shown to the ladies, who are treated
as political equals with male citizens, and
with that gallantry, which becomes gentle-
men when in their society. Women are
chosen on the various committees and their
views are sought for and given due weight.
Women have been elected to the State
Legislature, and whether as Senators or
Representatives, have served with signal
ability; have taken part in debates on prom-
nent public questions; have introduced
measures which have passed into law, and
have exereised an influence which has been
recognized and appreciated.
	Women have also been elected to and re-
ceived appointments in various county
offices, and have served on State boards of
directors for colleges and asylums, and
on school boards. They are recognized fac-
tors in political parties, and whether as
Republicans or Democrats, their influence
is felt and courted, for they choose their
own party principles and candidates, often
on the other side from their husbands,broth-
ers and sons. This, however, has not led to
those disruptions in families which were
predicted to follow these conditions.
	The influence of political power in woman
is being felt in aid of the temperance wave
that is passing over the great West, for
the suppression of the drinking saloon, and
the banishment of those temptations which
have led so many souls into vice, intemper-
ance and debauchery, For with the ballot
woman is armed with a weapon of attack
and defense that in some respects is strong-
er than her tongue, and which gives practical
effect to her word. Her influence with the
ballot is also potent in the selection of hon-
orable, clean, and upright men for public
stations, and the turning down of the unfit
and those who seek public office for private
pelf. 
	The elective franchise has given to women
influence for the reformation of many pub-
lic institutions and regulations. For in-
stance the establishment of retention homes
for females, with women matrons and in-

[Column 2]
spectors of the accused. Also in reform
schools; in the promotion of juvenile courts;
in the cleansing and beautifying of cities
and towns; in the promotion of public mor-
als. It was a woman legislator who intro-
duced a bill, which became a law, against
the wearing of huge hats in places of amuse-
ment by which the general public has been
greatly benefitted. Woman has vigor-
ously supported enactments against expec-
toration on street cars and street pavements,
and similar regulations for the public health
and convenience.
	By the enfranchisement of women, the
agitation over the much vexed question of
political equality has been settled in Utah,
and the contention and strife which it has
evoked has passed away, and woman shares
with man the power that full freedom
brings. And this puts her in her proper
place by his side, instead of under his
thumb or his foot or other unjust domin-
ion. It has not robbed her one whit of her
womanliness or hindered the performance
of home duties. She is just as good a wife,
a mother, a sister, or an aunt as she could
be without the rights and privileges which
the ballot brings to her. She can teach
human rights and the principles of govern-
ment to her children, and imbue her sons
with the spirit of that liberty she herself en-
joys. She is no longer a political serf, but
a citizen in the full sense of the term, a part
of the nation, having a voice in the making
of the laws which she is required to obey, in
accord with the eternal principle that, “all
governments derive their just powers from
the consent of the governed.” Utah stands
third on the list of educational status among
the forty-six states of the American Union,
and her position is largely due to the influ-
ence of free, progressive and enfranchised
womanhood.
	There are offices in the gift of the people
for which women are especially adapted.
There are others which can be better filled by
men. The good sense of the voter, both
male and female, is, or should be, exercised
in their selection. This has been exempli-
fied in the workings of equal suffrage, and
the universal acceptance of this righteous
eqnality cannot fail to bring to the world
greater freedom, higher justice, closer union
and advancement in every thing that will
elevate humanity, and bring them to that
condition of harmony, fraternity and peace
foreseen by the prophets and heralded by
the poets and sages of ancient and modern
times.
