EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear friend: I have, an hour ago, finished
"The Life of Goerge Eliot;" thanks, ever so
many, for the loan of it. And now I suppose
you will open your eyes when I say that I am
disappointed! The fact is, I anticipated too
much. I cannot think she ever dreamed of
the letters being published; the sole material
is George Eliott i. e., her manuscripts her eternal
headaches, and ditto illnesses, through which
was displayed "the miraculous affection that
has chosen to watch over me." These are en-
tirely her own words, and it seems to me this
idolizing affection and attention in a degree
enervated her. Her journeyings and foreign
travel seem to have amounted to a perpetual
motion! Another singular feature in her daily
life is her often depression, even though sur-
rounded by bright and wonderfully superior
intellects; ministering to her and feeding her
mind with food, "convenient for it," and assist-
ing her in her literary labors. Again her
want of confidence in her own ability to ac-
complish another work, even when she had
world of admirers at her feet, for what she had
written, besides realizing a handsome fortune
by the same, were it any other than George
Eliot, I should exclaim, "What gross affecta-
tion!" A doubt of one's self is well known to
young authors, or to those who experience a
paucity of commendation, and simply "cast
their bread upon the waters—" and just sing
the song that nature impels, or inspires them
to send forth. There must have been some
chords in that fine soul of hers that had not
been drawn to a harmonizing tension, to occas-

[Column 2]

ion such a serious lack of rhythm in the noble
instrument.
	Her soul and inner life is almost excluded
from her letters; it is her literary business that
fills them. Her letters to friends are simply
the common words and wishes of common
epistolary correspondence; it is seldom a new
or startling idea presents itself; it is true they
abound in love and friendship to those she is
addressing, and who does not use the same that
has any realizing sense of those beautiful at-
tributres? I am so disappointed that I must
have a target, and I think Mr. Cross shall
stand for that, and I will say I think he is not
a suitable biographer, and that another should
have been selected for such a complex office; it
is a very delicate position for the one nearest
and dearest to the departed to attempt its de-
lineation, as they would be very apt to draw
the picture through the lens of the admirable
and the beautiful that existed in the character,
forgetting that which every artiste remembers
and understands, the shading of the picture!
Mr. Cross probably realized all this and hence
he gave her letters that she might speak for
herself, and that would have been a just idea
had she developed herself in them. I say this
in no spirit of fault-finding or caviling, but
because I have so loved the works of George
Eliot, that I wanted to see her beautiful soul
in the "inner chamber" of her life; this we
scarcely get a glimpse of, and we lay down the
book and feel we have not seen the "lifted
veil."
	Especially had I hoped that I should read
some few words of her own upon that vital
epoch of her young life, upon which she en-
tered with such a silent; grand audacity, that
amounts almost to the sublime! This is no in-
flated language when we know her origin.
Her father was a strictly religious, conscien-
tious man, a sedate, respectable character,
honored and respected, by the high and noble
in rank and position, and by all whom he as-
sociated with; that his house was one of "order,"
that he reared his family in a strictly religious
training, that this child was especially of a de-
vout, deep-thinking mind, deeply imbued in
religious tenets, strictly virtuous, that all this
early training is developed in her works; the
beautiful prayers and aspirations they contain
exhibit the living principle in her through life.
Mr. Cross says her mind was ever religious.
This is also shown remarkably in her poems:
but at an early age she became associated with
minds of another caste, with regard to religi-
ous views, and soon after with Herbert Spencer,
George Henry Lewes and others. Grand and
great as were the minds of these men, their re-
ligious principles were of the Comte school, and
the contagion was inevitable. Still that home
religion could not be entirely extinguished in
her adhesive soul, and we can well imagine the
exquisite throes that agonized it, before she could
bring herself to take so bold a step in defiance
of the law of her country, and of the church
that had been her "nursing mother."
	Apropos of this said law of England! I bold-
ly declare it to be iniquitous! I mean the law
that refuses a divorce under circumstances in
which it is sin to oblige antagonisms to amal-
gamate. By such a law was G. H. Lewes bound
as well as many others. Let the law-makers
take the responsibility of all the misery they
have caused to many pure and virtuous souls.
It is upon this soul-thrilling subject I so
wished for a few words from the clear-headed,
religious-minded, strong-principled George
Eliot; but silence is her only commentary, and
here, I think, she erred; for was not the step
e took a public one? Did she not belong to
t Imperial Public? I am proud to say she
did and that I am a unit of the same, and
tha[-] the public have dealt nobly and under-
standingly with her, showing their rich ap-
preciation of her grand ability as an author

[Column 3]

by the handsome fortune it laid at her feet by
the purchase of her works.
	England and America have united in being
a nursing mother to her, and her name is
blended on the emblazoned scroll with their
literary immortals!
	Her poems most agreeably surprised me.
They are grand! "The Death of Moses,"
"Armgart," "How Lisa Loved the King," are
all filled with thoughts, words and deeds that
ennoble the author. "The Spanish Gypsy" is
also a wonderful painting of the awful beauty
and grandeur of savage life and character.
The origin of the Gypsies has ever been in-
volved in mystery; certainly they are a distinct
race from a noble source, denoting in their
form and features a grand type of humanity;
yet they are wanderers upon the face of the
earth, and no government could make them
otherwise; the earth is their eternal stage, and
the blue firmament their curtain, they ask no
other, they would accept no other. Fedalma,
in the beautiful palace in which she had been
reared, yearning for the outer world, as a
caged bird, is a graphic picture of the genuine
Gypsy.
	All George Eliot's characters, in whatever
form they appear, are drawn miraculously true
to nature, and herein she shines as the true
artist, and displays, throughout her works, her
own wonderfully observant, intuitive and in-
stinctive soul. She is gone! and we shall read
her no more, see her no more, till we hehold—
and hear her, in her own heavenly words, in the
choir invisible, "Whose music is the gladness
of the world."
		HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, April 6th, 1885.


