JUAB STAKE.
	The Primary and Young Ladies' Associa-
tions of Juab Stake held their confernece in
the meeting house, March 15th, 1885. The
Primaries occupied the morning meeting, Stake
Prest., Hannah Grover, presiding. The Sab-
bath School choir sang the two opening hymns.
Prayer was offered by Bro. Chas. Sperry. The
minutes of the last conference were read and
approved, also the financial and statistical re-
ports of each of the associations.
	A programme, consisting of recitations, songs,
etc., was successfully executed by the children.
Following these exercises Sister M. E. Neff
represented the First Ward of Nephi as being
in a healthy condition both temporally and
spiritually; also spoke of mental and moral
culture. This was followed by A. C. Bigler
reporting the Second Ward of Nephi, and
Esther Gardner that of Levan. Then Prest.
Paxman announced that Prest. Hannah Grover
had been called to labor in another field, and

[Column 3]

as a consequence would resign all of the offices
held by her here.
	Sister Grover gave a valedictory address—
said it was hard for her to resign her offices, be-
cause she had taken so much pleasure in her
labors and associations with the Primaries.
Gave some good instruction to the children, and
ever prayed for their welfare.
	The Stake Presidency is now as follows:
M. A. Cazier, Prest., Lizzie G. McCune and A.
C. Bigler, Counselors, L. A. Cazier, Secretary
and Treasurer.
	Conference adjourned. Singing, Benedic-
tion by Bishop John Haws of Mona.
	The Young Ladies' Improvement Associa-
tion occupied the afternoon, meeting commenc-
ing at two p.m., Stake Prest., M. E. Teasdale,
presiding. After the usual opening exercises
of singing and prayer, the minutes of the pre-
vious conference were read and approved; also
statistical and financial reports of the county.
During the administration of the sacrament
the choir sang a few appropriate verses. The
programme consisted of the reading of the
Young Ladies' Journal, songs and addresses,
all of which were given in an intelligent man-
ner by the members.
	Prest. Paxman then spoke of Sister Grover
being called to labor in the Temple at Logan,
therefore making it necessary for her to resign
her position as Coun. to the Stake Prest. Ex-
pressed his regret at having to part with so
earnest and zealous a laborer as Sister H.
Grover had been in this position.
	Sister Grover then tendered her resignation
and made a few appropriate remarks relative
to her association with the young people of
Juab Stake. Expressed her regret at having
to separate from them, and closed her re-
marks by blessing them and wishing them to
still keep her in remembrance and be her
friends.
	Prest. Teasdale gave the spiritual report of
the branch Associations. Testified to the good
works of sister Grover, and felt that she could
not say enough in her praise.
	Prest. Paxman made a few closing remarks,
containing an exhortation to the young to im-
prove themselves mentally, physically and
not to engage in the service of the adversary.
	Miss Kate Love was then chosen as First
Counselor to Prest. Teasdale, and Miss Mary
Linton as Second Counselor to fill the vacancy,
caused by the removal of M. A. Cazier. to the
Stake Presidency of the Primaries. The officers
of the Associations were then presented and
unanimously sustained.
	Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing, "Come we that love the Lord," etc. Bene-
diction by Bishop Warner of Nephi.
	 M. E. ORD, Stake Secretary,
	 L. A. CAZIER, Secretary of Primaries.

