THE LAST DECISION.

	Of late there has been great anxiety in the
community in regard to what the decision of the
court would be in the case of Angus M. Cannon,
President of this Stake of Zion. It has been
looked upon in the light of a test case, and
therefore eager attention has been directed to-
wards the anticipated result.
	President Cannon employed the most eminent
lawyers in the city, and everything that could
be done to give the case prestige was accom-
plished, but it proved all to no purpose, for when
the trial came up, and the case was argued, all
the sublime eloquence of the most powerful
speakers counted for nothing, and the District
Attorney and Judge construed or defined the
term cohabitation according to an entirely new
idea, in order to secure, as it would seem, the
conviction of the accused, although the defend-
ant had, as was proven, kept the Edmunds law
as it had previously been interpreted in the
courts. One cannot help thinking that the mind
of the Judge and Prosecuting Attorney have
undergone a radical change since the case of
Rudgar Clawson was decided, and even since the
decision was given in another notable case—that
of Orson Arnold. Cohabitation means some-
thing different now, and judging from past ren-
derings no man will be able to tell how cohabita-
tion may yet be defined in the near future.
	The rare jewel, consistency, is absolutely left
out of the trial in the Cannon case, and the
Judge delivers his opinions as much like an
oracle as though he was seated on the bench of
the Supreme Court of the United States.
	It is rather surprising to hear men acknowl-
edge that the Edmunds law is not for the crime
of adultery and similar offences against morality
and decency, and yet it has been apparent all
the time that it was not; however it is plain to
be seen that in these matters Congress does not
intefere. Sin and vice abound and grow more
and more bold every day, and very little heed is
given to the entreaties of those zealous reform-
ers who are exercised over the matter, but when
it is affirmed by the judiciary that the Edmunds
law is to protect monogamic marriage, it is al-
most too much. It makes one sick at heart who
is acquainted with facts in relation to the safe-
guards that the very strenuous and scrupulous
people, who discuss these subjects in public,
throw around marriage to protect its sanctity.
To enumerate instances of abuses of this form
of marriage would be too extensive, unless one
could publish volume upon volume.
	In monogamy when men tire of their wives
they find an excuse to divorce them, or leave
them until the law acknowledges the separation,
if, indeed, they consider law in the case. There is
an abundance of instances in these United States
where men have had four or five or more wives
in this way, and all living; but that practice is

[column 2]

considered legitimate and within the pale of law,
although there had been all the solemnity of a
marriage ceremony in each case, that ought to
have been binding on both parties throughout
all time at least.
	It seems incredible to think that judges will
resort to such weak excuses to punish Mormons,
when there is no shadow of evidence to prove
even the appearance of having broken the law
in question. The whole proceedings are simply
a form without any meaning, except to convict,
a hollow mockery so far as the defendant is con-
cerned, and yet intended to force men to utterly
abandon those whom they have made the most
solemn covenants before God to cherish and pro-
tect.
	But these men, judges and officials, will fall
far short of accomplishing what they have un-
dertaken, however zealous they may be in
prosecuting and convicting, they cannot stop
the progress of the Kingdom of God upon the
earth. "Man proposes, but God disposes," and
they are only helping to fulfill the prophecies
concerning the last days.
	There will certainly be a diversity of opinion
even among those who discountenance the
practice of plural marriage, in regard to
Judge Zane's ruling in the Cannon case. The
interpretation the Judge gives of the word co-
habitation is so purely original that it will be
questioned as doubtful on all sides. A man's
liberty hangs by a very fine silken gossamer
thread, when it can be balanced against the
definition given to one simple word.
	It is pretty plain to see that the keeping of the
Edmunds law does not save men from the pun-
ishment determined upon, viz, fine and imprison-
ment, and, therefore, what inducement is there
to keep the law at all? By and bye, perhaps,
after innocent men have been made to suffer, or
another sort of case comes up which needs an-
other stretch of conscience, the term cohabita-
tion may have another construction put upon it.
Meantime the people will go on with their vari-
ous pursuits—preaching the Gospel, gathering
the poor, subduing the earth, beautifying and
improving Zion, teaching industry, economy
and virtue, and encouraging the people to con-
tinue in keeping the commandments of God.
This people are in the hands of that God whom
they have covenanted to obey, and He will
overrule all things for good, and no power on
earth or in heaven can hinder the growth and
spread of the work He has set His hand to do.
Things may look very dark and gloomy, men
may be in prison and in bonds, and Satan may
have power to afflict the Saints, but they will
always have the strength and courage to endure
if they live faithful and keep the Spirit of God
in their hearts, and when their integrity to God
and His Kingdom is sufficiently proven He will
come out of His hiding place and manifest His
power in the deliverance of His chosen people.


[Column 1]

