DEAR AUNT EM:
	Thinking the following items might be read
with interest, I send them to you:
		L. G. R.
	OAKLEY, Cassia Co., I. T., March, 1885.
MY DARLING LULA:
	I write in answer to your's received the 1st
inst.		*	*	There is some very excel-
lent land in this part of the country; fiin, sandy
loam, no rocks in it; if there were plenty of
water for it nothing could be better. It looks
as though to put the seeds into the ground
would be all that was necessary to have a good
crop; and it would be, with sufficient rain fall,
but that does not come, and when the sun gets
hot and the weather dry, the vegetation would
wither and die. But it will not be many years
before the Lord will bless the land for the
righteous' sake; yea, all the land, as He has al-
ready blessed portions of it, and He will send
the rain in the season thereof; all we need is to
know that we are worthy before the Lord, and
all will be well with us.	*	*	I do not
know what the wonderful (?) works of the
late Legislature in this Territory will amount
to.
	The men folks are plowing their land, work-
ing in canyons, etc., as if nothing unusual had
happened. Well, there are good, honest, vir-
tuous Latter-day Saints here, as well as in
other places, and doubtless they need stirring 
up the same as the rest, that they might awake
and put on the armor of righteousness, repent
of their follies and carelessness and be sure
that their lamps are trimmed and burning.
	It is quite a long way from here to where 
our meetings are held, and I cannot go very
often. I miss the meetings very much, and
the society of my dear sisters there in the city,
although we have kind, agreeable and very
hospitable neighbors here. I enjoy the quiet of
my snug little room, out would feel all the
more contented if all my beloved children
were near enough that I could see them often;
but the peaee of God abides in my heart, and I
am blessed, no matter where my lot is cast,


When the Lord blesses us so greatly with His
peace and love, we can afford to wait for a ful-
ness of joy and blessings in the eternal world,
which we never could obtain in this.	*	*
	I am so weak and trembling, I have been
fearful that I should have to give up writing
altogether, which would seem a great trial to
me. There are many of my friends whom I
should like to communicate with by letter, but
I am not able to do so.
	You will please present my kindest love to
our dear Sisters Show and Wells, and all the
rest, when you see them. The sisters of the
Twentieth Ward are always remembered.
	That you and all my dear children may be
ever faithful to the cause of truth, is the con-
stant prayer of
	Your affectionate mother,
