		SPRING RAIN.

Oh, list to the voice of the pleasant spring rain,
	Which trickles and tinkles in cadences sweet,
As lutestrings and elf horns, or merry refrain
	Of sleighbells and hoofbeats, so faint and so fleet—
Or the whisper of zephyr from over the hills,
	His deep secrets telling to leaves of the trees—
The warble of birds, the gay ripple of rills,
	The laughter of childhood, the humming of bees:—

Oh, every glad voice of earth, ocean and air,
	Subdued to the key of a happy heartbeat,
Seems mingled and blended in harmony rare,
	So joyously tender, so hopefully sweet,
My heart can interpret the musical tone,
	And sings in accord with the beautiful rain
As seashells forever in soft undertone
	Breathe choruses learned in the choir of the main

It murmers glad tidings through all the soft air,
	The herald of summer, proclaiming before
O trees of the woodland, so brown and so bare,
	Your green robes and blossoms must deck you once
	more.
They start with a quiver of life in each vein,
	Sweet impulses tingle from rootlet to bough,
Of up and be doing; they scarce can complain
	The sweet tides of ecstasy thrilling them now.

It calls to the grasses, the lowly of earth,
	Dear little ones, hark! I have tidings at last,
Your lances present, ’tis the season of mirth,
	And wave your wee banners for winter is past.
All nature's dear children, the great and the small,
	On mountain and valley, in meadow and dell;
It greets, and they joyously answer the call,
	And their hearts at its coming in rapture swell.

Oh, think of the joy of the sprouting things
	That waken and stir in their dark loamy beds,
And thrill with delight at the song it sings,
	While tripping and dancing above their heads.
Little sisters and brothers, awake! it cries,
	Queen summer is coming across the bright main;
I bring her fond message: my darlings arise!
	I'm longing to kiss your sweet faces again.

Soon all the brown meadows will laugh into green
	The stately trees rustle in richest array,
The winter-bound brooks burst their icy cold chains,
	And merry birds twitter from each leafy spray.
Bless God for His goodness, His mercy and love,
	The fair face of nature, hill, valley and plain,
All blessings and wonders, below and above,
	And thanks for the beautiful, beautiful rain.
