THE OTHER SIDE.

	O consistency, where hast thou hidden thy
face? Hundreds of widows were excluded from
voting at the polls on account of their belief,and
the Edmunds act, Section 9, reads thus: "Pro-
vided said board of five persons shall not
exclude any persons, otherwise eligible to vote,
from the polls, on account of any opinion such
persons may entertain on the subject of bigamy
and polygamy, nor shall they refuse to count
any such vote on account of the opinion of the
person casting it on the subject of bigamy or
polygamy."
	Question, to the law and the testimony. Can
a widow commit a crime without a man, bigamy
or polygamy? If not must she be punished by
the Edmunds law? And now I think it no
more than right that we get redress for being
wronged and deprived of our right of franchise
for three successive years, for by losing that
number of votes, unlawfully, the commissioners
thought to turn the balance of power into their
own hands and give the predominant party rule;
and they are our most bitter enemies. We
would like to have our case go before the public,
and see if their expression would not be, Give 
Utah's widows as much right as the Edmunds
law will allow, as well as to have it all on their
side to punish whom they please and how they
please, and we have the right to sue those par-
ties for damages, according to the letter of the
law, for they have broken it themselves, and
now they spit out their spite on one poor lame
woman for contempt of the law, because she
voted ignorantly, not knowing that the law
passed in March, and had cast in her vote, and
has to be put in bonds for perjury. What no-
bility of character! What magnanimous con-
duct! What a refining element has come into
our midst! The widows will soon get converted
to monogamy, these monogamist men are so
philanthropic in piecing out the law to Utah's
subjects.
	Now, if Mr. Edmunds will amend Sec. 9 and
make it read, Send all the Latter-day Saints to
prison without a scratch of the pen to prove
them guilty, or proper evidence.
	I should like to know how the law can prove
a marriage without a certificate of date and an
agent of ceremonies; and as the law was made
to punish offenders in this Church, married men
and women, how, in the name of common sense,
can unlawful cohabitation be proven without
seeing a man and his wife together? If this
law was made for the rest of Uncle Sam's
children, these very tenacious, overreaching,
virtuous, far-seeing, evil-minded men would
commence to cleanse and purify the element in
their cities, towns, villages and hamlets. This
would cost the government far less, and do
more good. The word says, "First clean the in-
side of the platter." We are on the outside. No
one need to suppose for a moment that anyone
outside of this Church can have the benefit of a
higher law of marriage, for no one holds the
authority but those whom God has appointed;
the same as Nathan, the Prophet, had a divine
right to give, or take wives to or from favored
men of God, that we all can read about in the
good old Bible, which we all have read a great
deal. Our sectarian friends, fearing we did not
read and comprehend the Bible, sent so many
to us, that we might be converted to its sublime
truths; we greatly admire such characters
as Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Samuel, Elkanah,
Hannah, David, Solomon, John the Revelator, who


writes about twelve names on the gates of the
new Jerusalem.
