	WHAT CAN A WOMAN DO?

	No doubt many members of the Institute
have wondered what vocation in life they
should adopt by means of which they  could
earn their own livelihood, thus promoting self-
reliance and the ability to do something suffi-
ciently renumerative to enable them to fight the
battle of life single handed, if necessity re-
quired it, or circumstances compelled them to
do so.  As there is always a possibility that re-
verses may come to all of us - is it not wisdom
to give some consideration to this subject?
	It would be impossible to define just what
course any member should follow to become
entirely successful; in this matter, as in many
others, we must be our own judges.  One thing
I can say with certainty, and that is this:
In making up our minds we should not adopt
any kind of labor in the slightest degree de-
grading.  Whatever we try to do, let it be the
labor we love; something we can do enthusiasti-
cally. People are rarely successful who work
mechanically.
	Some persons have thought, and do so now,
that the only labors a woman should perform
must be of a domestic character; that to be a
household drudge is all she is capable of be-
ing; but such persons must be told that at the
present time there are hundreds of ladies in
the civilized world making themselves famous
as authors, physicians, surgeons, public speak-
ers, painters, sculptors and lawyers. The ad-
vanced situation of the women of to-day grants
to her all the privileges she may seek to enjoy;
and if for any reason she does not choose to
marry, there is no law to compel her to do so.
This being the case she should know how to
take care of herself, and earn her own living.
	No successful result in any branch of study
or labor can be gained without commencing
with the menial duties connected with a work-
shop or the office.  The great fault of learners
generally is that they want to reach the top of
the ladder without first commencing at the
bottom. A great man once said that no one
could attain eminence as a lawyer without
first starting as errand boy, and sweeping out
the office as his first lessons.  In this city to-
day there are scores of ladies trying to paint
pictures without having first learned to draw.
The result is that they can never show marked
superiority; their productions will never be first
class, and what is more, cannot have a com-
mercial value, their time, paint and other ma-

[Column 2]
terials being literally thrown away. Here
then, is a point for our consideration. If we
would be artists let us start aright.  Find out
what you love to paint, and make a special
study of that particular branch of art study
you adopt.  Copy nothing, when once you
have mastered the rules, but nature, whether in
landscape or figure painting. Copies of any
other person's work have very little value.
Original efforts are the only paying ones.
	Prang of Boston, Goodall of London and
many others pay immense sums to ladies for
original designs in flowers and landscape
studies that are used in the production of birth-
day, Christmas, Easter, and New Year's cards.
They never ask the question as to where a lady
lives whose productions are acceptable.
	Coloring photographs in the styles now in
vogue brings good remuneratives to all who are
capable of doing good work, and who are de-
termined to succeed. Retouching photograph
negatives employs thousands of ladies in the
United States and Europe. Wages are gener-
ally good.
	We have in Utah to-day many ladies who
are making a good record as physicians, and
although this is a very arduous and difficult
vocation they are equal to the task.  There is
room for many others to obtain the same ad-
vantages. Each town and village can employ
a lady physician, and if they are not fully oc-
cupied as such why should they not learn den-
tistry? As we are fast becoming a toothless
generation the opportunities seem very flatter-
ing to all that will study the art.
	Notably among the Catholics many of the
female portion deny themselves earthly pleas-
ures and devote their lives to doing good, ever
ready to meet death and to face human misery
in every form, whether in homes or hospitals,
or in the midst of the terrors of the yellow
fever, cholera and other contagious diseases.
Cannot my sisters, without becoming nuns,
learn to be good nurses, if they cannot be-
come physicians? There are very few, good
nurses to be found.
	Photography is practised by many ladies.
There is one in Utah to-day that is doing real
well.  It is easy to learn in some branches, and
generally pays industrious devotees well.  I
would hardly recommend barbering to ladies,
but there are plenty of the fair sex that make
their living by practising the tonsorial art. As
Telegraphers women have proven very success-
ful. Thousands are now employed in the dif-
ferent branches of labor developed by the
uses of electricity, and there is still room for
more.
	There is a wide open field for school teachers,
and if a lady is strong physically and endowed
with patience and a lover of children, is perse-
vering and ambitious, what should hinder her
from making a financial success of this very
important employment.
	Every woman should know how to make a
dress for herself, and why should she not be
able to make them for others? As a matter
of course to be successful she must have a good
eye to make them fit like a glove, must be fa-
miliar with the rules of cutting out and fitting
other than well formed persons, all of which
requires close study.  Good dressmakers are
rarely in want of a job.
	Some of the gentler sex like to work in
factories; some do well as book-binders, and
hundreds find employment in stores. None
other than ladies can be expert milliners. The
making of artificial flowers is an undeveloped
industry in Utah. Years ago our pioneer
women used to weave and spin. There were
very many good tailoresses then; why are there
so few at present? Type setting employs a
goodly number of girls.  Then again who can
cook better than our mother's sex? Far better
to have cooking classes in our wards than waste
time on useless amusements. There is always

[Column 3]
sure work for girls as domestic helps, and when
they are well treated, I have no objection to
this kind of occupation, although some think
it menial. The result is the same, whether you
teach a scholar or make a pie - it is so much
labor for so much money. Idleness brings no
return, but labor a sure reward. To work
dignifies a man or woman. Nothing is more
degrading than laziness.
	Should any of my lady friends be so fortun-
ate as to learn to play the piano or organ, and
to perform the task well, they will find music
teaching renumerative in civilized communi-
ties. Many high born ladies, that have met
with reverses, find a knowledge of music very
advantageous. Very many large establishments
employ ladies as book-keepers, and there is no
reason why any women, who will study well
the art, should lack employment as such.
	I might go on and enumerate many other
sources looking to the dependence of women,
but space will not permit. Whatever vocation
we may decide upon as the one best suited to
our tastes, we must do with our whole heart,
determined to be  first class in everything. No
business can prove a paying success without
being understood theoreically and practically.
If we determine to know  those details of social
life that always make a woman attractive -
namely, how to manage a home; general knowl-
edge always comes into play.  No position that
a woman can fill is more ennobling than to
know how to preside over a home. A man
may be attracted by a woman when well
dressed and on parade, but he is won by her
domestic accomplishments. Self-culture will
make her an agreeable companion, and a
knowledge of domestic duties a helpmate -
without which  home has no charm, and married
life no fascination. To my mind any vocation
that leads a young woman to be fully prepared
for the duties of wifehood is always safe to fol-
low. Should any of my young lady friends
not succeed in any of the lines of labor before
named, but prove a success as a wife, she will
have accomplished one of the principal aims of
a woman's life.  Some one else will be the
happier for knowing her, and this is success
enough.					C. R. S.


