EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Primary Association of the 15th Ward of
this city was reorganized Oct. 16th, 1884. Mrs.
Lucy Pratt Russell had resigned the position,
on account of increased family cares, that re-
quired her whole attention, after having held
the office, which she ably and honorably filled,
a number of years. The Bishop of the ward se-
lected Mrs. M. Lois Morris to fill the vacancy, and
the organization was completed with the follow-
ing officers: M. Lois Morris, President; Susannah
Waterfall and Hortensia L. Jones, Counselors;
Vennie Luffkin, Secretary; George L. Morris,
Treasurer. The Bishopric of the ward and Sis-
ters E. C. Clawson, L. A. Wells and S. M.
Kimball officiated in the organization, and made
suitable remarks to those assembled. We un-

[Column 2]

derstand the Association to be in a flourishing
condition at the present time.
	THE Annual meeting of the Primary Associa-
tion of the Twelfth Ward was held on Wednes-
day, April 22nd, in the Assembly Rooms, Mrs.
Ellen C. Clawson presiding. The weather was
very unfavorable, yet there were over sixty
children present. The minutes of previous an-
nual meeting were read and approved, also the
statistical and financial report. Singing and
other exercises were well rendered, and reflected
great credit upon those who have so arduous
though pleasant a labor in teaching the young
the ways of the Lord. After the programme
had been carried out remarks were made by Sis-
ters E. B. and L. A. Wells, Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, M. G. Wells and Eliza Lyon. President
Clawson made closing remarks, and after singing
the benediction was pronounced by Master Alex.
C. Pyper. After the close all present were
served with delicious refreshments.
	ON Friday, April 24th, the annual meeting of
the Primary Association of the Thirteenth
Ward was held in the Assembly Rooms, Mrs.
L. A. Wells presiding. There were quite a large
number of children and several visitors present.
The minutes of the previous annual meeting and
report for the last year were read, and a pro-
gramme carried out, consisting of songs, organ
solo, accordoon solo, recitations, dialogues and
essays, questions answered and so forth. The
choice of the pieces given was particularly good
and worthy of mention, and excellent order was
observed by the little folks. Brief remarks were
made by Sisters E. C. Clawson, E. B. Wells, R.
Standring of Lehi, Bishop Milien Atwood and
Coun. Francis Platte. Prest. Welles also made
suitable concluding remarks. After singing "Our
Father in Heaven," etc., the meeting was dis-
missed with prayer by Tommie Sloan, who had
formerly been a member of the Association.
	WE had the pleasure of attending the annual
meeting of the Relief Society of Davis Stake,
held in the Farmington meeting house, Friday,
April 17th, Coun. Mary S. Clark presiding.
After the usual opening exercises and reading
of minutes and annual report, Sister Clark called
upon the Relief Society Presidents to report the
condition of the branch society over which they
presided. The reports were very good though
brief, and each one spoke as though earnestly
engaged in the duties pertaining to her calling.
Sister Phebe W. Woodruff of this city then ad-
dressed the congregation, giving some of her
experience in the Church for over fifty years,
imparting most excellent and wise instruction
pertaining to the times in which we are living.
Sister Jane S. Richards of Ogden followed in a
similar strain, dwelling upon the duties of
mothers, and the care of children and family,
giving excellent spiritual and practical advice
and urging the sisters to persevere in the path of
duty and obedience, and never be weary in well
doing. Counselor Hesse then occupied a short
time, in which he spoke most encouragingly to
those engaged in the Relief Society, and gave
excellent advice to old and young. In the after-
noon others of the Presidents reported the So-
ciety over which they presided, after which
Sister E. B. Wells addressed the congregation,
dwelling, in the course of her remarks, upon
home industries, manufactures and literature,
the storing of grain, the Deseret Hospital, its
aims and needs, and other general matters.
Sisters Woodruff and Richards each spoke upon
subjects of special interest, and Sisters Leonard
and Barkdell occupied a short time, and Coun.
Clark spoke very earnestly and impressively
upon the signs of the times, and exhorted all to
keep the commandments of God. The confer-
ence adjourned for three months. Singing.
Benediction by Bro. Ezra T. Clark.


IN company with Sister Jane S. Richards of
Ogden, we visited Morgan to attend the confer-
ence of Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A., held
there on Saturday and Sunday, April 26th and
27th. The Relief Society Conference on Saturday
held two sessions, Mrs. Lydia Rich presiding.
Prest. W. G. Smith and Counselor Samuel
Francis were present. Reports from all parts of
the Stake were given by the sisters who repre-
sented the several branches in the Stake. In-
teresting and Instructive remarks were made by
Sisters J. S. Richards, E. B. Wells, President
Smith and President Rich. The Second Coun.,
Sister Mary Jane Tomar, resigned her position
on account of having moved away, and Sister
Mary Ann Simmons was chosen by Prest. Rich
to fill the vacancy, and the name was presented
by Prest. W. G. Smith, and she was unanimous-
ly sustained. On Sunday the Y. L. M. I. A.
Conference convened in the new Stake Taber-
nacle, Sister Susannah Hiner presiding. There
was a very large assembly, and after the usual
exercises, minutes were read and the young
presidents gave in reports of the several Asso-
ciations. A quarterly manuscript paper entitled
"The Young Ladies' Journal," was read by Mrs.
Mary H. Welsh, which was a very pleasing
feature of the conference. The articles, which
were from all parts of the Stake, were very good
indeed, and reflected great credit on the several
contributors, and spoke well for the literary ad-
vancement of the young people. Addresses
were made by Prest, Hiner and Sisters E. B.
Wells and J. S. Richards, in which the young
girls were given motherly advice and instruc-
tion, and exhorted to purity of life and character,
and to preserve themselves in the paths of vir-
tue and holiness; to study the human system
and obtain knowledge from all good books, and
above all to cultivate the Spirit of God and as-
sist in the great work of the last days.


