MY DEAR SISTERS, THE DAUGHTERS OF ZION:
	I would that ye incline your ears to what I
may write unto you. Engrave the same upon
the tablets of your inmost soul, unto the day
of your great rejoicing, by obeying the coun-
sels and instructions given you continually by
the Priesthood, at the Mutuals, Primaries, by
your parents, in short by all who hold the
soul's salvation of the young dear. If you do
otherwise great will be your sorrow and re-
morse; aye, that sorrow and remorse which
comes of a conscience not void of offense to
God, which passeth the comprehension, save by
that sad, bitter experience of those disobedient
to our Heavenly Father's laws.
	Would that we could all see with the eyes
of our elder brethren and sisters, or in other
words, be counseled, led and directed by their
inspired wisdom, how much misery and woe of
the direst form might we escape if this were
our course.
	Do not associate yourselves with any but
Latter-day Saints, not even the half-hearted
amongst us, for therein lies safety, and only
therein; no matter how nice or fair they may
seem, or of what relation they may be, if they
are not of our faith shun them; should circum-
stances throw you into such society treat them
with such civility as becometh a Latter-day
Saint, but let it be of such a nature that is
born of polished dignity, and that forbids any
intimacy, and you will one day see and feel
forcibly the wisdom of such a course and the
blessings attached. Some will doubtless say,
"Oh that is too straight laced for me! Why
such severity?" Listen. Do you believe in
God? If so, do you believe He means what
He says? You do? Very good, then; He
tells us "that those who are not for us are
against us." Can anything be more tersely
put? "But then," says another, "they are so
nice, so polite, so gallant, so—so"—yes, yes, my
dears, I know they are; Satan himself, I have
heard, is a gentleman. This niceness, gallantry,
etc., is generally a mere polished exterior, or
acquired from force of habit, covering an in-
ward corruption and vice of such a d——g
nature your very souls would revolt with hor-
ror could you discern it. They are verily
"whited sepulchres," instruments of the infer-
nal regions, sent to allure, pollute and destroy

[Column 2]

our young sisters. Oil and water cannot mix,
does not unite. So it is with the Latter-day
Saint girl and the Gentile marriage; hence the
"straight laced ideas," as some may term them.
It is displeasing in the sight of God for the
sons and daughters of Zion to marry with the
ungodly, or the children of men. Read your
Bible, Book of Mormon, etc.; con well their
precious pages, and learn the judgments of an
outraged God through the sons and daughters
marrying the children of men.
	I bear my testimony to all the daughters of
Zion, that no girl can be happy, or have even
the shadow of happiness, who commits the
grievous error of uniting her fate with an
unbeliever, grievous to none more so than
herself, in the end. No matter what the
circumstances, with what wealth, or other se-
ductive pleasures they may be surrounded, nor
how loving and devoted the husband may
seem to be, all this is a hollow mockery and
the soul yearns after something better and
holier, beyond his power to bestow; there is a
void, a dreary, aching vacuum that cannot be
filled; children only add to your soul's misery;
you are engulfed or surrounded by a perfect
sea of doubts, fears and awful anxieties lest
something should happen and your treasures
be taken from you, knowing that death severs
all ties between you. The mental tortures,
sleeping or waking, endured under these cir-
cumstances, are terrible, maddening, relentless
and unceasing; truly "the wages of sin is
death—" in this case a living one.
	Do not be deceived by cases of those who
marry thus and seem to be happy, for 'tis but
seeming at best. Could you but look into the
recesses of their hearts your souls would sicken
at the sight. They would gladly exchange
places with the veriest menial. True there
may be some who enjoy a moderate degree of
happiness, etc, but, then, their day of judg-
ment is to come; they are not suffering the ef-
fects of their transgressions on this earth, and
hence will have to hereafter. Then who would
envy them or their earthly happiness? We
are not here for this life alone, must be borne
in mind, that our fleshly desires overcome us
not, but to earn happiness, joy, rejoicing, king-
doms and exaltation in the presence of our
Lord throughout the endless ages, or "weeping,
wailing," etc.; which ever we sow we reap, for
the Lord says, "The laborer is worthy of his
hire, and it is safe to say will be rewarded by
the master he listeth to obey." Let us, then,
be found laboring in the Lord's vineyard. Fools
are known by their folly; let us rather be known
by our wisdom, by our obedience to the Priest-
hood at all times, and there will be no fear of
our marrying a Gentile. They would have to
seek wives amongst their own.
	Now, my dear sisters, be warned in time. If
this should meet the eye of one about to take
such an awful step, pause, reflect ere you take
that terrible step; pause upon the verge of the
precipice whereon you stand, and pray to God
for strength, power to comprehend and save
yourself for a "more glorious purpose," and
wait patiently for a husband of the kingdom
of God; when you will learn the meaning of
husband and wife in their holy and eternal
significance.
	That this article may be the means of caus-
ing my young sisters to reflect and choose the
better part, is my greatest desire.
	Before closing I wish to call attention to the


sad, but  true story, "The Moth and this
Flame." What a beautiful picture she has
drawn of celestial marriage---how heavenly is
the sight. This is a story, some may say. Yes,
but I have seen more than one such family in
every day life, that are true examples, practi-
c[-]l of her picture. Who would forego the
calm, sweet heavenly joys and peace of that
young wife, Mary Edna, in the fore part, for
the pomp and misery, gilt and tinsel of poor
mistaken Eulalie? How my heart ached---
bled afresh over her silent sorrows that none
but God knew[-] and those who have trod the
same thorny path.
	I could rehearse to you a tale of such utter
woe, misery, heart ache and deception, that
would chill your warm young blood and make
such an impression as would not be forgotten[-]
If it is the Lord's will I will write this tale; i[-]
shows up another phase of experience of marry[-]
ing a Gentile, of which the writer of this was
the sufferer; an experience which should con-
vince the most liberal that the daughters of
Zion should not marry with the unbeliever.  I
would exhort the young to study the principles
of the Gospel; seek a testimony thereof, and
never raise your voice against God's anointed,
or any principle of the Gospel.
