CORRESPONDENCE.

	MANASSA, Colorado.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is spring of the year, and all hands are
busy putting in crops and gardens; the young
trees and plants are budding, and nature has
just begun to put on her robe of green, which
makes times lively and every one to feel to
welcome the spring of the year.
	Some of us went to Utah last fall—rather on
business than pleasure—were much delighted
with our visit, and pleased to see the temple
and many other places of interest to the Lat-
ter-day Saints, but upon returning home were
glad to see this beautiful valley, and felt like
we were coming home, and felt satisfied with
our home in this new country, and believe, if
we will persevere, we can yet make it to blos-
som as Utah does, but then, perhaps, our ene-
mies will be more anxious to take it away from
us. As yet they do not seem to be very
greedy; it may be because this is such a large
valley and so much land laying idle just as
good as ours.
	It does seem as though we have been special-
ly favored thus far—more than some of our
brethren and sisters in other localities, for
which we feel thankful. I refer to those who
have been persecuted for the sake of their re-
ligion, and have been tried and imprisoned for
adhering to the principle of Polygamy. One
of our brethren had been tried, but those who
had made such a loud noise, crying, "adultery,
fornication," were not able to prove anything,
therefore the case was thrown out of court,
and we are left once more to attend to our own
business in peace, which we can do without
help from our enemies.
	It seems that our worst enemies here are
those who have once borne their testimony to
the truth, but have forgotten their covenant
and have turned away, and are now making
willing tools of themselves in the hands of the
devil to accomplish his purposes. The Gen-
tiles by whom we are surrounded have thus
far treated us very kindly. The Saints are
becoming more united. our Sunday Schools,
Young People's Associations and Relief Socie-
ty are doing well. Sister Eliza M. Smith is
Stake President of our Relief Society—we
have great faith and confidence in her ability
as an energetic leader and faithful Latter-day
Saint. Sister Hannah Christenson is Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of this ward under
whose management it is doing well. The sis-
ters all seem to be alive to their duties, and 
can always find plenty to do, for it seems to
fall to our lot to have a great many needy
among us continually, and can always find an
object on which to bestow our charity.
	S. T. B.

	MT. CARMEL, March 18th, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	This is a very small and remote settlement,
nevertheless the Saints manifest a desire to
press forward in the great and glorious work
in which we are engaged. I have read of
many troubles experienced by our old ances-
tors of this Church, and they make my heart
bleed, but what cares the enemy for that? The
persecution that has been and is, to all appear-
ance, likely to be again, in part, lest the un-
seen, but ever confiding hand of God, inter-
feres, brings forcibly to my mind, we are the
chosen people of the Lord, for if we were of
the world, the world would love us; but just the
reverse, we are not worldly and we care not
for the world; we trust in God for protection,
for He has called us out from Babylon, and if
the whole world turn against us we will not
go back nor follow her ways. We have every
evidence needful, that an honest heart can de-

[Column 2]

sire to substantiate the fact that this is the 
Kingdom that Daniel saw many hundred years
ago. See its advancement and prosperity, not-
withstanding the many severe trials the Saints
have had to pass through. It does seem to 
me that every hard blow the enemy makes is
only adding fuel to the fire. It may not seem
so to all. These troubles are not very desirable,
but perhaps necessary to stir up and make us
know who we are. It has been said that afflic-
tions, though they seem severe, in mercy oft
are sent. They stopped the prodigal's career,
and caused him to repent.
	This long while the wheat and tares have
been growing together; perhaps the Lord de-
signs a separation, and He is permitting the
enemy to do the work, or rather commence it;
we know our Father can do his own work, and
in His own due time He will accomplish His
great design.
	Satan has much power, and yet it is limited
in comparison to that of our Heavenly Father.
Oh! ye foul ambassadors of Satan, stop and
think before too late. Know ye not that this
earth and the fulness thereof is the Lord's?
Will ye not understand He has spoken from
the heavens in these last days, and commanded
His people, and they will obey His voice? If
not, it is because ye are straining at a gnat and
swallowing a camel.
	Go on ye Saints of the Lord! God is our
shield, director and protector; in Him we
trust, and while we live, we live unto Him, and
when we die, we die unto Him.
	M. E. B.


