CACHE STAKE.
	The Young Ladies' Conference of Cache
Stake was held in the tabernacle, March 7th,
1885, Prest. Carrie M. C. Smith presiding
There were present on the stand Counselor Ida
T. Langton, Sisters E. S. Taylor, E. Howard
and Mary Freeze.
	In the forenoon the Presidents of the vari-
ous wards gave verbal reports of their associa-
tions, all of which were highly satisfactory,
after which Sister Freeze said: "There are
enough sisters present to sow the good seed in
every association. There is no happiness out-
side of the Gospel. Be obedient and prayerful,
and learn in youth that the Spirit of God
brings happiness."

[Column 2]

	In the afternoon the financial and statistical
report was read by Sister Martineau, after
which were some exercises indicative of the
work done during the winter. The following
exercises may be mentioned: The Prophecy
of Samuel the Lamanite, from the Book of
Mormon, was very well rendered. O. F. Whit-
ney's "Christmas Idyl" was excellently recited,
and a very good manuscript paper was read.
	Sister Taylor said she was pleased with the
reports and exercises; could note an improve-
ment since last conference. "In your meetings
bear your testimonies, and respond to every
call. Learn to think and write your thoughts
for your manuscript papers; sustain home in-
dustries; obey counsel; seek for excellence. All
our Mutual Improvement work must be found-
ed on the spiritual.
	Prest C. O. Card said he had enjoyed the
time spent in the meeting. "The sisters have
duties to perform as Latter-day Saints, and
they should not shirk them, thinking they can
do nothing outside of home. Be willing to as-
sist in any public labor, and do not wish to re-
sign if called to assist in the Young Ladies'
Associations, or Relief Society. Attend
meetings and be faithful, and you will be
blessed in your homes and in your lives.
	After the reading of the following resolu-
tions, by the Prest., the conference was ad-
journed:
	Whereas, the day is now at our doors when
the enemies of Zion are arrayed against her,
and boldly declare their intentions of forcing
us, as a religious body, to relinquish that
which is dearer than life itself, depriving the
children of holy wedlock of honorable paren-
tage, and our parents of those inherent rights
that were given by God to His children—
	Therefore, We, the daughters of these noble
men and women, emphatically affirm that we
are.
	Resolved to prove ourselves worthy of our
parentage and cause, by patronizing, conscien-
tiously and disinterestedly, our home industries
and institutions, thereby proving our faith by
our works.
	Resolved, That we will endeavor to further
the interest of our own cause by curtailing our
needless wants, and strive, by industry and
economy, to bring prosperity again to our doors,
and become a self-sustaining people, as we have
been counseled from the earliest period of our
history in these valleys.
	Resolved, That as members of the Y. L. M.
I. A., we will try to set an example worthy of
imitation, endeavor to have our adornings the
workmanship of our own hands, and ever bear
in mind, that to obtain the blessings we desire,
we must merit them by keeping the command-
ments of God.
		ELLEN BARBER, Cor. Secretary.

