COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES.

	Recently Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's class in mid-
wifery assembled at her office, No. 18, Main St.
A number of these students had attended a
complete course of study, and complied with all
requirements necessary for a final examination,
which was conducted by Drs. H. J. Richards
and A. S. Bower.
	The following named ladies passed successful-
ly and received certifitates of study in this im-
portant branch: Mrs. Martha Geddes, Plain
City' Weber Co., Julia A. McDonald, Mesa
City, Arizona, Cally Justeson, Spring City,
Sanpete Co., Lizzie H. Shipp and Jennie Jacob-
sen, Salt Lake City. Mrs. Elizabeth Kieser and
Mary Olsen passed their examination Dec. last.
	After these preliminary exercises refreshments
were served, followed by social conversation,
speeches, songs, etc., closing with an address
by Dr. E. R. Shipp to the young accoucheurs,
who were about to depart for their homes--some
to distant parts.

	After months of such intimate association in
the investigation of a science in which we, as
women, are so particularly interested, it is but
natural that we should become more than or-
dinarily interested in each other. The ties of
friendship become more firmly wedded by a
knowledge of each others mental capacitie[-], and
by intellectual interchange of thoughts and
ideas; indeed, I think that in our future lives we
will each have many pleasing reminiscences of
these instructive interviews.
	As the hour of separation approaches my
thoughts and feelings go forth to you with a
species of maternal solicitude, and I feel I can-
not let you pass from under my earnest tute-
lage without a few parting words.
	I trust the principles that have been inculca-
ted in your minds may remain with you and
serve you faithfully in case of every emergency;
and I would suggest that the completion of this
course of study be not the finale of your investi-
gations, but as your knowledge increases, and
judgment improves with practical experience,
that you keep your minds bright and active by
continued research—study the latest and best
works, and keep posted in the medical literature
of the day, particularly that pertaining to your
special branch. Without constant study we
are liable to grow dull and rusty and out of date,
and lose the benefit of the wonderful advance
made in science from year to year.
	Your woman's intuition will naturally teach
you many of your duties as obstetricians, your
own sensitiveness and delicacy of nature will
tend to gentleness and refinement in the man-
agement and treatment of those requiring your
services.
	Often the medical attendant, becomes the re-
cipient of confidences, frequently of the most
delicate and private character. Forget not this
sacredness—never make them the subjects of
gossip, and under no circumstances repeat them
to the annoyance of your patients and to your
own lasting discredit.
	The life of a physician is proverbially one of
hardship and anxiety, but to the thoroughly
educated and conscientious practitioner there is
much satisfaction and pleasure mingled there-
with; we experience a sweet recompense through
every day of our lives by the consciousness that
we have relieved suffering, soothed pain, and
perchance prolonged or saved life.
	Never allow personal interest, comfort, inclina-
tion or convenience to sway you in your duties
to your patients. If circumstances prevent your


giving that attention it is your duly to give, let
some one else take the case. Remember the
words quoted by our mutual favorite, Dr. F.
Barker. "There are moments that are worth
more than years. A sick man may have the
unwearied attendance of his physician for
weeks, and then may perish in a moment, be-
cause he is not by."
	Somewhere I have read that the great Jennie
Lind, renowned as well for her sweet and affable
nature as for her gift of song, has been said to
have made "a conscience of her art." She al-
ways did her best; was just as desirious to excel
and please when singing to a few poor peasant
children, as when performing before the im-
mense audiences of the world.
	If there is any profession on the earth who
should make a conscience of their art, it is most
assuredly the one you have chosen. Think of
the sacred charge submitted to our care—human
lives! To the Great Author of this mortal ex-
istence, one life is just as precious as another.
He prizes the life of the poor and the lowly as
much as that of the rich and affluent. Then let
us never be influenced in our profession as medi-
cal attendants by the wealth or position of our
patrons.
	While lingering on the last good bye, I would
fain express to you the depth of my affection
and interest, and my earnest desire for your fu-
ture success and prosperity. Wherever you
may sojourn my sympathy and love, my sincere
faith and prayers will accompany you.
	As a last admonition I would say, Be true to
what your own hearts tell you is just and right,
be faithful in the discharge of every duty to
your fellow creatures, and ever loyal to your
God.


