WEBER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Weber Stake was held in the Taber-
nacle, Ogden, Thursday, March 12, 1885,
commencing at 10 o'clock a.m., Mrs. Jane S.
Richards presiding. Singing, "On the moun-
tain tops," etc. Prayer by Elder W. S.
Childs. "Singing, "Let us pray, gladly pray,"
etc. Minutes of previous conference and re-
ports from nearly all the branches in Weber
Co. were read,showing the healthy condition of
the entire Society in that stake.
	Prest. Richards made a few encouraging re-
marks; alluded to the angels taking notes of
our good deeds, and our meeting together, and
of all things transpiring in our midst; urged
the people to look on the bright side and be
full of hope and joy, and remember that God
will over rule everything for the upbuilding
of His kingdom upon the earth. She desired
that we might have humility and faith to en-
dure all the trials necessary for our exalta-
tion.


Sister Eliza R. S. Smith made a most elo-
quent and stirring address, in which she inclu-
ded every blessing, duty and privilege in the
life of a Latter-day Saint, and earnestly urged
all to devote every faculty and all the means
they might accumulate to the upbuilding of
the kingdom of God, to have no selfish inter-
ests for come life or come death, to fulfill the
will of our Heavenly Father was the most im-
portant work in which any one could be en-
gaged.  Said when asked the question "Sister
Eliza, what do you think of the times?" she re-
plied, “I think they are glorious!” I am proud
of those who are worthy to suffer for the Gos-
pel’s sake, not counting their persecutions dear
for Christ’s sake; Said this is only the begin-
ning; we may round up our shoulders and bear
it, for there is a purpose in it.  Do our ene-
mies do more to us than they did to Jesus?
Will we be called to suffer any more than He
did—is there any fear of it?  He will have a
tried people, and He has to make use of some
very rough tools to refine and polish us; we
have got to be in a different condition as a
people before He can come out in judgment as
he has predicted.  Every one that maintains
his or her integrity to the kingdom of God will
see the most magnificent blessings will be
poured out upon the Saints.  Made some state-
ments in regard to the persecutions in Kirtland,
Missouri and Nauvoo, and how every trial had
proved a blessing in the end, though it was
not apparent, while passing under the rod, and
made many other references to the conditions
which brought about persecution; said she
wanted to see Zion independent, grow and put
oh her beautiful garments; the kingdom of
God will protect all good citizens, shield and
protect virtue, innocence and righteousness.
Had thought in the past these things would not
be in her day, but rejoiced that she had lived
to see the events now transpiring. Exhorted
all to purify their own hearts and live as be-
come sons and daughters of the Most High,and
gave much special instruction for the benefit of
those who desire to live lives of purity and
holiness, and alluded to her once having had a
foretaste of the blessedness and happiness the
Saints will enjoy when they become as one.
	Singing, "O! ye mountains high," etc. Bene-
diciton by Bro. Wm. Middleton.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m. Singing,“Come all
ye sons of Zion.” Prayer by Bishop McQuarrie.
Singing, “The trials of the present day,” etc.
	Sister E. R. S. S. spoke appreciatingly of
the efforts and labors of the secretaries, and
blessed those who were willing to come for-
ward and act in that office; she also spoke of
the study of obstetrics, and the need of compe-
tent help in this profession, and advised the
young sisters to study and inform themselves
for their own benefit, if even they never should
be called to practice; said an excellent offer
had been made to those who wished to study,
by one of our sisters in Salt Lake—Maggie C.
Shipp—her terms were, two lectures a day for
ten weeks, $10.  Made some other remarks re-
lating the circumstances now surrounding
the people, and the terrible events transpiring
in the earth.
	The meeting was afterwards addressed by
Coun. C. F. Middleton,Coun. Hattie C. Brown,
Sister Sarah Herrick, Prest. of Y. L. M. I. A.
of Weber Stake, Sister E. B. Wells of Salt
Lake City, Martha Critchelow, Prest. R. S.
First Ward, Ogden, Nancy M. Tracy, Prest.
R. S. Huntsville, Bishop McQuarrie, Bishop
Wallace and one or two others, upon subjects
of vital importnace to the Saints. 
	[-]rest Richards made some excellent re-
marks at the close, thought there had been a
feast of good things during the meetings.
	Adjourned the conference for three months.
Singing, "Up, awake, ye defenders of Zion!"
Benediction by Coun. Middleton.
	E. B. W.


