[Vol28 | March 1941 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Women the World Harris]
A PROPHETIC PROGRAM FOR WOMEN Ramona W. Cannon
Women The World Around Estelle S. Harris
Ever since the first woman, Eve, women have been praised for their charm or blamed for many of the ills of mankind. No matter how much woman is censured, however, no way has been found to get along without her if the race is to be kept going. If the most important study of mankind is man and if man includes woman, then we are probably justified in taking a look at some of the women of the world to see how they live, dress, and do their work.
We recently returned from a trip around the world, spending a year in Persia. During this long journey, we saw the women of many lands and had a fine opportunity of observing some of their curious ways of living.
Let us take a first glance at the Persian women.
Only a few years ago the women of that land lived quite apart from the outside world. In many of the larger households they dwelt in apartments, called anderuns, separate from the main part of the house. The homes of the well-to-do Persians were built around a garden with the women's quarters in the rear, and only the men of the household or very near relatives were allowed to see or associate with them.
They even ate most of their meals separately with other women and children as their companions. The peasants of the country have from time immemorial dwelt in villages where men, women, and children have lived close to their flocks, and they have not been bound by the formalities that restrict the more aristocratic families.
Formerly the chadar, a semi-circular robe made of black for street wear and colored material for the house, was worn over the regular clothes, and covered the entire person, including the head. It was held together in front just below the eyes by one hand. No woman's face was to be seen in public, as it was covered with a veil.
Even today, peasant women wear trousers and tunics or blouses. The head is always covered with a scarf which they like to pull over the face as strangers approach, even though keeping the face covered is now against the law. The larger households maintain many servants. In fact, this is one of the favorite methods of indicating wealth. In the absence of modern equipment, the washing of clothes is done by hand near a stream or in a low tub set on the ground. The hands take the place of the washboards in their system of laundering. The ironing is done with charcoal-heated irons.
Cooking is usually done over charcoal fires, where this favorite fuel is available.
Rice is the foundation of most Persian meals.
This is boiled and served with mutton, chicken, or some one of numerous kinds of sauces.
Bread is made from dough rolled into thin sheets and baked on the walls of a stone or brick oven. The baking is not done in the individual homes, but in the numerous bakeries distributed throughout the cities or in the community bakery of the village. In addition to the staple rice, bread, and mutton, the dietary is enriched by a great variety of vegetables, fruits, and melons.
When guests are present, the etiquette of the country prescribes the showing of a great abundance of food.
Much more than can be eaten at the meal must be put on the table.
Food is bought in open bazaars or from peddlers along the street, whose wares are usually carried on the backs of donkeys. The sidewalks serve not only for pedestrians, but for donkeys or other animals that may pass along the street.
Chickens are bought from venders who sit along the street with a dozen or more chickens about them.
With their legs tied together. The housewife feels surer of the freshness if the chickens are bought while alive.
Meats are not refrigerated in the shops, and a customer buys the cut of meat next in order as the quarter of beef or mutton is gradually cut away.
Bathing is generally done at the public baths, since only the rich can afford baths in their homes.
These public baths are centers of sociability and gossip.
Throughout the Orient, home water systems are rare, and outside of the cities, electricity in homes is almost unknown. In Persia, cisterns in the basement and hand pumps are used to get water to the main part of the house.
Persia has a problem in the scarcity of wood and coal for fuel, and the majority of small homes heat a room by placing a pan of burning charcoal in the center. A low table is sometimes placed over the pan and then covered with a quilt. The members then sit on the floor or on a cushion with their feet under the quilt near the pan. It is very cozy for the feet, but the back may be left cold.
The majority of Persians are Mohammedans.
This religion prescribes many of the details of living for its adherents, such as the length of the nursing period of a baby, the use of running water instead of still water for washing, and the size of a water pool to insure purity.
These sanitary instructions are faulty when considered in the light of modern physiology and bacteriology, but for hundreds of years they were useful in guiding primitive peoples.
Prayer is important in the lives of Mohammedans.
They pray with their faces toward Mecca, and their prayers must be offered at definite times and by prescribed formulas.
Visits to mosques and other sacred places are required. It is not uncommon to see a group of women carrying their tea-brewing samovars and food and walking for miles to a shrine or mosque where the day will be spent in prayer and worship.
Some even go the night before in order to have all of Friday, their Sabbath, at this sacred place.
Persia is making a valiant effort to bring education to all of her people, but she is still far short of reaching this goal. The educational system is patterned largely after that of France. The standards are high, but many of the villages are still without schools. Foreign, private, and mission schools have done much to modernize methods and enlarge curricula.
Office work is now being opened to women clerks and typists in a small way, so that women in Persia can earn an independent living, a thing that was impossible until recently.
Many girls are now studying nursing and some are taking up medicine.
