[Vol28 | March 1941 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Poem | Title: Reckoning]
RECKONING 
One  whose  hair  has  whitened, 
Keeps  his  youth  today- 
Views  with  understanding 
Any  young  dream's  sway. 
From  his  years  take  twenty. 
Another's  age  is  told 
Who  walks  aloof,  forbidding. 
And  he  is  old— so  old! 
—Maud  Mero  Doolittic.

Child- Welfare  Provisions  Of  The 
Social  Security  Act 
Vera  White  PohJman,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
' '  /^  HILD  welfare  .  .  .  did  not  of  breaking  up  families  and  placing 
I  .  enter  the  public  conscience  children  in  institutions  because  of 
^"^^  of  any  nation  until  about  loss  of  parental  support;  they  have 
one  hundred  years  ago.  And  we  held  to  the  concept  that  general 
know  from  reading  Dickens  and  the  welfare  can  best  be  promoted  by 
literature  of  his  period  that  the  well-  strengthening  family  life  so  that 
being  of  children  in  those  early  days  children  in  their  family  setting  may 
was  principally  considered  from  the  have  opportunity  for  healthy  growth 
viewpoint  of  schooling  and  of  crime  and  sound  development.  Conse- 
prevention  and  the  ending  of  phys-  quently,  public  responsibility  for  the 
ical  cruelty."  These  words  are  from  care  of  dependent  and  neglected 
the  address  of  President  Franklin  D.  children,  developed  during  the  past 
Roosevelt  at  the  1939  White  House  four  decades  and  crystalized  in  the 
Conference  on  Children  in  a  De-  Social  Security  Act  of  1935,  is  di- 
mocracy.  Evidence  of  this  state-  rected  toward  the  care  of  such  chil- 
ment  is  found  in  the  fact  that  early  dren  in  their  own  homes, 
provisions  for  the  care  of  dependent  The  well-being  of  children  of  to- 
and  neglected  children  in  America  day  is  considered  to  include  the  es- 
were  in  the  form  of  custody  in  insti-  sentials  of  a  wholesome  family  life 
tutions,  such  as  orphanages,  first  in  a  home  with  parents,  relatives, 
established  by  religious  and  other  or  foster  parents,  where  they  have 
private  organizations  late  in  the  warmth,  food,  and  affection,  a  sense 
eighteenth  century,  and  that  laws  of  security,  emotional  satisfaction, 
providing  public  care  for  dependent,  spiritual  guidance,  medical  care 
defective,  and  delinquent  children  when  ill  and  preventive  health  ser- 
were  enacted  mainly  during  the  last  vice,  such  as  periodic  physical  ex- 
third  of  the  nineteenth  century  and  aminations,  immunization,  and  den- 
related  chiefly  to  care  in  institutions,  tal  care,  and  adequate  opportunities 
By  1900,  institutions,  both  custodial  for  education,  recreation,  and  for  vo- 
and  educational  in  character,  had  cational  and  cultural  activities.  The 
been  established  for  the  feeblemind-  emphasis  for  care  of  dependent  chil- 
ed,  the  epileptic,  the  blind,  the  deaf,  dren  and  orphans  has  shifted  from 
the  crippled,  and  for  juvenile  offend-  custodial  care  in  institutions  to  care 
ers  of  the  law.  in  their  own  homes  or  in  carefully 
Although  there  will  always  be  selected  foster  homes,  where  the  fa- 
some  children  with  special  needs  cilities  of  the  home  are  supplement- 
( particularly  the  defective  and  the  ed,  if  necessary,  with  grants  from 
delinquent)  for  whom  institutional  public  funds  in  order  to  assure  ade- 
care  must  be  provided,  child-welfare  quate  food,  clothing,  and  shelter, 
workers  of  the  twentieth  century  and  with  special  services  provided 
have  emphasized  the  inadvisability  from  public  funds,  such  as  prevent-

184 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH,  1941 
ive  health  services  for  mothers  and 
children,  location  and  treatment  of 
crippled  children,  and  skilled  social 
services  for  children  in  danger  of 
becoming  delinquent. 
The  responsibility  of  the  govern- 
ment for  health  protection  and  edu- 
cational and  recreational  facilities 
for  all  children  of  the  nation,  and 
for  the  care  and  protection,  as  well, 
of  those  children  who  are  dependent 
and  neglected,  is  concisely  set  forth 
in  the  following  statement  by  Kath- 
erine  F.  Lenroot,  chief  of  the  U.  S. 
Children's  Bureau,  in  which  she  also 
emphasizes  that  we,  the  citizens  of 
the  nation,  are  the  government— 
"Primary  responsibility  for  the  nurture, 
the  support,  and  the  training  of  children 
rests  with  the  family.  .  .  .  The  state  has  an 
obligation  to  assure  the  availability  of  such 
community  services  as  health  protection, 
schools,  and  playgrounds.  But  the  state 
has  the  further  duty  of  making  sure  that 
care  and  protection  are  within  reach  of 
those  children  who  have  no  parents  or 
natural  guardians,  and  those  whose  home 
conditions  or  individual  difficulties  or  dis- 
abilities require  special  attention.  These 
include  the  dependent,  the  neglected,  the 
delinquent,  and  the  mentally  and  physical- 
ly handicapped.  .  .  .  Citizens  must  realize 
that  they  cannot  divest  themselves  of  re- 
sponsibility by  looking  to  government  for 
the  solution  of  their  problems.  Govern- 
ment— local,  state,  or  Federal — is  only  an 
institution  through  which  citizens  act  to 
fulfill  their  obligations  to  themselves,  their 
families,  and  their  fellow  men."^ 
The  notable  progress  in  child  wel- 
fare since  1900  has  resulted  largely 
from  the  four  important  nation-wide 
White  House  Conferences  on  child 
welfare— 
1909 — on  Care  of  Dependent  Children
