Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon THE thrifty housewife fears not winter's advent for her home is stored with summer's gifts. MRS: ISABELLA GREENWAY of Tuscon is the first woman elected to Congress in Arizona. She is the widow of General Greenway, a "Rough Rider" in the Spanish-American war. Miss MARY WARD is now Boston's immigration commissioner. MRS. JEANETTE A. HYDE, 8 years Collector of Customs at the Port of Honolulu, has returned to her home in Utah. MISS DORIS W. BRADWAY, Mayor of Wildwood, New Jersey, is the first woman mayor in that state. Mrs MARY ANDERSON of the labor department is working against differentials in industrial codes. The woman's bureau of the N. R. A. Claims the same minimum wage rates for men and women. GECRETARY PERKINS | says "We cannot stop with the present minimum wages and maximum hours of labor." She also sees a new conciousness toward child labor. The Child Labor amendment has gained during 1933. Since last April, 9 states have ratified, making a total of 15. WILHELMINA of the Netherlands, today the only woman ruler in the civilized world, celebrated her 43rd anniversary as Queen last summer, amid much rejoicing. She is much beloved by her subjects for her simple dignity and wisdom. OROTHEA BAIRD, the original Trilby in Sir Herbert Grier's first production of the famous play in 1895 died this fall in London. Sne was noted for her beauty and musical voice and the charm and intelligence she brought to her many roles. RENEE ADOREE of the films died last month. Her greatest part was "Melisande" in The Big Parade, though she was also popular in "The Cossacks," "La Boheme," "The Exquisite Sinner," "The Tide of Empire" and other fine films. MRS. ANNIE BESANT, world famous Theosophist leader, familiarly known as the grand old lady of India, died recently at Madras, India. MISS STREETER ALDRICH has produced another best seller, "Miss Bishop." The new book is the self sacrificing story of a school teacher, amusing and pathetic but lacks the fine artistry of "A Lantern in Her Hand" or "A White Bird Flying." MRS E. M. DELAFIELDS "Provincial" Ladies, whether in London or Philadelphia, certainly makes one ''see ourselves as ithers see us" and provokes much introspection. MARY R. BEARD'S book "America Through Women's Eyes" is an edited combination of diaries and articles by women covering a period of 300 years and puts a new or different phase on much of history. It is seen from the feminine view point. Rebirth (Third Honorable Mention in the Eliza R. Snow Contest of 1932) By Miriam Jeanne Warnick Wright (To Albert Shepherd) Prisoned to plodding actualities I strayed Into a concert hall, So many there I felt I might be lost Entirely, And closed my eyes; Your music poured in strains That laid soft fingers On my troubled pulse, My eyes looked up, My hands unclasped, The music lured me Just a little Past myself; And then I knew A stretch of hope, The center of me stirred, A challenge! And my spirit floated out Upon your notes of promise— I was freed! My spirit played, It danced, it laughed At the imprisonment It knew Before I entered; Then solemnity, 'A purpose held me, A. Pure pondering Before a wonder strangely found; I was swept into possibility, And by a strength supreme Lifted beyond Into a newer seli— I lived a miracle! Recaptured for the spirit's sweet resolve, In reverence And ecstacy I knew This was the spirit's actuality!