"Sweet are the Uses of Adversity" By Vernessa M. Nagle THESE words, "Sweet are the uses of adversity," so frequently quoted, and, yet, so little understood, penned over three hundred years ago by our much loved Bard of Avon, have but recently found their true interpretation in the lives of individuals and nations. Many of us have just awakened to a realization of the fact that adversity has its credit side as well as its debit column. Lor many years we Americans have been living very rapidly?most too rapidly. It has all been, so it seems, an attempt to keep up with the Joneses, and the Joneses in turn to keep up with the Smiths. Many of our luxuries have been purchased on deferred payments. Not until stocks had dropped, jobs disappeared, and payments came past due did we realize that somewhere had there been a miscalculation. Although the economic shake-up has caused chaos in the business world, it has not entirely wrecked the American home. It has, however, brought about a tragic readjustment. It has developed, to a certain extent, our ingenuity. We have had to conceive of new forms of entertainment and as a result the home is fast becoming the center of amusement. Many of us have been compelled to give up our mad pursuits of pleasure, the more or less costly excursions, and as a result have turned to our books, home gardening, and the family picnics. Never before have people generally taken up the home-gardening idea with more enthusiasm. It has been a worthwhile experiment if we have learned merely the value of living close to the health-giving sun and air and soil. Richly endowed is he who has learned the true joy of living at home! The so-called depression has taught us the valuable lesson of thrift?that a dollar saved is a dollar earned. Never before have the simple words of Benjamin Franklin been more timely. We now consider it smart to be thrifty. Thrift and economy will lift this nation out of its difficulties. What is true of a nation is true of individuals. Adversities have been responsible for some of the greatest achievements of mankind. Adversity caused the man who would not turn back to push on and on when to do so meant almost certain peril. Adversity it was that hardened our pioneer fathers, prepared them for the hardships of the wilderness life of a new country. We may find occasion to complain of "hard-times," but we must remember that the bridges have been built, the great irrigation projects which required almost superhuman effort by the few pioneers then, hava been constructed, the virgin soil broken, and the desert made to blossom as the rose. Sometimes we regard our hardships as terrible things that kill the soul within us, but Ouida says, "It is the north wind that lashes men into Vikings; it is the soft luscious south wind which lulls them to lotus dreams." We need not consider every calamity a curse; surmounted difficulties not only teach us but prepare us for future struggles. Nor should we excuse our sloth under 698 the pretext of difficulty. Washington Irving tells us that little minds are tamed and subdued by misfortunes; but great minds rise above them. I wonder how many of us in the times of plenty prepared ourselves for the times of want. I recall the proverb of the child and the man. The child complains at the long hours at his desk when he might be playing out of doors; he sees the vacation coming to an end; he counts up the years he must still spend at his books; and he gives a sigh of weariness. The man, on the other hand, looks back with a sigh and recalls how many hours he wasted in school, how little attention he paid to the recitation, what trouble his mischief caused the teacher and how he prevented the studious from fixing their minds on their lessons. But it is now too late! There is a French proverb which says, "If youth but knew; if age but could." These are uncertain times. We read of the financial failures of large corporations, the failure of business houses, and of the loss of private fortunes. To me, many of these cases have a tinge of pathos. I see the life's savings of individuals wiped away almost over night, as it were. How transitory, how fleeting are these things we think of as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE wealth! But the pendulum swings. Fortunate is the man who can go down without a taint of dishonesty attached to his name. This world is full of people just like you and me; we never get very far up, so we do not have far to fall. How I hope that I shall always know how to live at the bottom. It would be so much easier, should one fall from the top, if one has first learned the joy of truly living at the battom. So, in these times of uncertainties, we must keep our heads cool and our hearts calm. Cheerful smiles and confidence will go a long. Way to bring this old world back to something of its former self again. Men and women before us have weathered uncertainties and hardships. Ties are strengthened by stress. Sometimes the woman in the home wonders what she can do to help clear up conditions around her. Although we think of the husband as the family financier, we find that most husbands seek chiefly spiritual help from their wives when clouds are the blackest. It has been said that the woman in the home is the barometer of that home. The general tone of the household depends upon her. Her ability to encourage the family to go ahead makes for the family success or failure. I wonder?is that not, after all, the true mission of woman! Christmas For $1.00? WHY SHOULD I SUBSCRIBE FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE? FOR $1.00 I receive one year's training in every walk of life. What Should I Give My Friend for Her Birthday or for The Relief Society Magazine. I give her a MONTHLY reminder of my love The joy of my gift lasts throughout the year ANTIKNOCK value  AT PRICE OF REGULAR Stop at any of the 400 Utah Oil Service Stations SELECT YOUR Christmas Cards NOW! While our stock is complete. You will find here just the card you want. Values this year are greater than ever before. The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine The REAL VALUE OF LIFE INSURANCE Vv Few people realize the true value of Life Insurance except its value as protection to their dependents. The greatest value of Beneficial insurance really lies in its investment value. In addition to preserving homes, holding families together in times of bereavement, providing for dependents,?it has made and saved fortunes, supported businesses and made old age independent and comfortable. Investments in Beneficial Life Insurance have, at all times, carried a cash value of 100 cents on the dollar and payable on demand. INVESTIGATE THE REMARKABLE SAVINGS-INVESTMENT PLAN OF BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY DIRECTIONS: Heber J. Grant A.W. Ivins J. Reuben Clark Jr. Geo. J. Cannon E.T. Ralphs Jos. F. Smith B.F. Grant David O. McKay A.B.C. Ohlson