Opening Session Assembly Hall PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON WE are delighted to meet you here this morning, in our first all-day Class Leaders' Convention. From most of the stakes comes the report of the excellent work of our Class Leaders. Even where there is little opportunity, these fine women are surprisingly efficient. The Educational Committees of the General Board (and these comprise all of its members) have been working for months to make this day both profitable and pleasurable. You, too, have made effort to come. Many have traveled long distances, most of you have left your families at a sacrifice, with the sole desire to be of greater service to the women of your communities. I can think of no greater aim. We have met here in the name of Him who came to teach us how to serve, to teach us how to help mankind to a higher level. When we use His methods we not only improve the intellect and aid in cultural development, but there is an actual molecular readjustment. This is Tennyson's meaning when he said: "A great thought strikes along the brain and flushes all the cheek." Thought is the only action the spirit has, and where that thought contemplates spiritual activity and human welfare, it is expressing divinity and becomes entirely and purely creative. Thus the body is uplifted and purified by thinking good thoughts. The standards of the community are influenced by Class Leaders who encourage mothers to read good books, and who inspire them to use a little time each day in study. Consider what a great opportunity there is for one who has the power to influence people to improve themselves. It would be interesting to know who encouraged Brother B. H. Roberts to study. Did his mother or some Class Leader help that little emigrant boy to see the benefit of study? Weary he must have been as a young blacksmith, but he paid the price and the Church and Nation are made richer for his effort. Few in your class would have greater difficulties to overcome than had Brother Roberts, and who can tell where real intelligence is waiting for you to express the thought that "strikes across the brain," and makes a sordid life beautiful. A. A. Berle, Jr., writing for a recent number of Scribners Magazine, says: "If life were nothing more than working and eating and sleeping and dying, this tremendous fabric would be meaningless. * * *" The great justification for living is that life is a conduit of civilization; the great joy of life is to add some slight part to that civilization through personal fulfillment. The great faith of life is that through our very difficulties and in our efforts, we deepen that stream and enlarge the scope of the spiritual life of the country." RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE I know of no group of people who are doing this more effectively than the Relief Society women. May our Heavenly Father give us the ability and the power to help our sisters to live life to its fullness. MAUDE BEELEY JACOB DIRECTOR OF LITERATURE THE title "Life and Literature" has been given to the course of study for the year. It has been planned to bring to the Latter-day Saint woman a fuller understanding of Life. Literature has recorded what man has thought and felt through the ages as he has pursued his quest for an understanding of life. The message of the course is couched in the words of the poet: "Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll!" The lesson units of the course have been planned to present a view of human progress, the factors that have influenced human thought and action and an interpretation of that great realm of human experience that never changes, love and hate, hope and fear, motives and impulses, joys and griefs. The literary materials of the course have been chosen for their human appeal, their beauty of expression, and their power to touch us in an intimate way. As we look at the Greeks with their zest for life, we realize that their greatness was the result of their spirit. The Greek spirit, the love of freedom, the love of truth, and the love of beauty, are the imperishable gifts they have given to the world. The selections, "The Death of Socrates," "Ulysses," "Ode on a Grecian Urn," selections from the poems of Sappho, selections from Homer, can impart to us the Spirit of the Greeks. One of the great stories Man has written in his "Book of Literature" is the "Biography of the Youth of Society." This is the story of the Roman way of life, the story of the men who made the world of yesterday a social foundation for the world of today. As we consider the greatest book in the world, the Bible, under the divisions, The Old Testament as a Record of the Life and Thought of the Ancient Hebrews, How We Got Our Bible, The Bible as Literature, we shall come to know the mighty note of Hebrew faith, "Know God." This great epic of immortality records Man's struggle for individual happiness and God's struggle for the perfection of man. One of the most fascinating chapters in the world's literature is "The Romantic Spirit." Men and women as national heroes and knights, priests and saints, lords and ladies, rulers and slaves, make up the body of romance. Songs of worship, of war, and of love are the expression of romance. With Tennyson's delightful poem, "The Princess," we shall pause in romantic spirit. Many great literary masters have written in the "Book of Literature," but none with a greater understanding of human nature than has Shakespeare. His mellowest wisdom is recorded in "The Tempest," his last RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work. From the princely Prospero, the earthy Caliban, and the sprightly Ariel we learn of the divinity of man. Literature as a criticism of life can be more than an explanation and an interpretation of life, it can present a vision of what life can be at its best. Man's greatest struggle is a spiritual struggle. Literature with spiritual values can give to man, "quietness, strength, understanding, and steadfastness, whether to do or to endure." From Ibsen's "Brand," the way of a saint, "Peer Gynt," the way of a sinner, and Emerson's "Self-Reliance" and "Compensation" we see the forces that determine the soul's growth in the progress of self-realization. "Man is his own star" and "The aids to noble life lie within us." MRS. HAZEL H. GREENWOOD LESSON PREPARATION AND PRESENTATION TEACHING has been called "The finest of the fine arts" and we who have been called to teach should sense the responsibility and seek to prepare ourselves in every way possible to get the best results. On us depends whether it shall be a job, a profession or an art. Teaching gives us the opportunity for growth. "It is work that stimulates ambition and enhances personal worth. There is no greater developer of character to be found." Our influence for good in the lives of others can never be estimated, we may be able at some crucial moment to drop a word, a bit of philosophy that may give courage to meet and solve the problems of life. Then also there is the joy that comes from the association with these fine women we are privileged to teach; we get their reactions, their inspirations, and are able to dip into their minds and souls and see what is mirrored there. Be interested in the members of the class, learn their possibilities, seek to broaden their horizon, help to make for them a rich old age. Stimulate their thoughts and ambitions with the strength and value of the principles you are seeking to teach until they fill their lives with worthwhile study and effort. Teach the difference between good and poor reading. A real teacher must be a real student. No one should teach to the limits of his information. A teacher must be so full of his subject that he gives the impression that he has much in reserve that he could give if he had time. To be helped to become all that you may become is a real service. "Welcome the task that makes you go beyond your ordinary self if you would grow." You as teachers can enjoy the spirit of the Lord in your work. Seek Him in prayerful humility. Approach this great task with a prayer in your heart for guidance. "Be thou humble, and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand and give thee answer to thy prayers." Doc. And Cov. 112:10. The preparation of a lesson involves first the collection of material. The text, the Magazine, the stories, poems or books to be studied, all the available supplementary material. Pictures, magazine clippings, articles, etc. (Lectures, moving pictures, songs, poems, radio, library if available. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Make a scrap book for individual use.) A knowledge of the background of the work in question is necessary. Discover the author's purpose in writing it, points in the author's life, if they will assist, historical setting, are all necessary to a clear understanding of the work. One very necessary thing in the preparation of a lesson is the free use of the dictionary. One presenting the lesson should understand the meaning of every word and sentence in the selection. Pronunciation of words should be accurate. If we do not love it and enjoy giving a lesson we cannot hope to make others love and enjoy it. The Objective is the generalized statement around which all the facts of the lesson must be made to center. We sift out of this material a central truth. The teacher must see through what makes the lesson worthwhile, must discover the gem, and around this central thought arrange the material; exclude some and include others, leave out the non-essentials and emphasize the important points. Time is limited, we must select the essential things. Ask ourselves, what have I? Why was this book, play, poem written? What is its message? What prompted this at this particular time? What values in this work are fundamental? How can they be illustrated in our lives? What experience in my life has equaled this? Have these experiences meant anything to me or any members of my class? What questions may I ask to emphasize outstanding points? The outlining of a lesson is one of the most difficult tasks, but when once mastered is one of the greatest helps. The aim should point the goal we seek, but an outline points the route we will follow. Outlining helps to settle on important and unimportant facts, to stress the ones most needed and to stay within time limits. Organization requires intelligent discrimination to know what parts to omit and what to retain. The type of audience will determine this. We must know our women. There are various ways to present a lesson, by lecture, special topics, discussion. The lecture method has its advantages, as it lays a suitable foundation for the introduction of material and is often the best way of approach. There is an economy of time in a lecture, the product of a vast study can be given in a short time. A carefully planned special assignment promotes independence of thought. It encourages a spirit of inquiry and places responsibility upon members of the class. Training in expression and standing up before people gives confidence, and a sense of having contributed something. It also develops initiative. Discussion prompted by skillful and intelligent questioning on the part of the teacher gives a fine opportunity for socialized self-expression. The opening remarks are important, do not begin with an apology or a complaint, and be sure that the first thing you say arouses interest. Once the interest has been gained, things of less interest can be presented. Before presenting the lesson to a group it may be well to go over it aloud to an imaginary audience. This is one way to master the material. Present it simply and with feeling. Dramatic presentation is not necessary, though at times this may help. Place in the hands of the listeners choice bits or memory gems from the selections. Read always as much of the author's words as possible. Take time to assign next month's lesson and encourage reading the lesson in the Magazine. Take time for a review to connect the whole, and show its relationship—one lesson to tie into the next. Teach them that the time for learning anything is the time it is needed, that no matter how late in life we begin we can get comfort and joy in study. IDA P. BEAL GENERAL AIM OF THEOLOGICAL LESSONS THE word "theology" is of Greek origin. It comes to us from "Theos" —meaning God, and "logos" —a treatise or discussion. "Emphasis is everywhere increasingly placed on the conception that education is not a process ending with the school, but is rather a life process; that school life, however prolonged, simply evokes ability and taste for learning, and furnishes the initial equipment for securing never completed self education." "The formation of right ideals is the major task of education," says Brigham Young. It would be impossible for me to give all the aims of our theology lessons, so I have chosen a few that I think stand out prominently. Joseph Smith gave to his age many generalized truths. I can but repeat a few of these as examples; viz: "The glory of God is intelligence." "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance." "A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge." "If one man, by his diligence, obtains more knowledge than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come;" and so on. These quotations help us to sense in a measure our responsibility to inform ourselves of the glorious truths of our gospel. Our theological lessons stimulate our sisters to a renewed appreciation of the gospel, as it is the charted path by which we can again return to our heavenly home, and there receive our rewards. It strengthens our testimonies. It is a special privilege and blessing of the Holy Ghost to every true believer to know the truth for himself. It is both the duty and privilege of the Latter-day Saints to know that their religion is true. Our theological lessons help to develop our powers of mental discrimination, aesthetic appreciation, moral determination, and a love of God and His work. We become more aware of our social relationship and are active in the discharge of all our obligations; respectful of law and order, devoted to truth and justice; loyal to the best traditions of our people, and dream and work toward better things. In brief, a striving for the ideal and a life that will be faithful thereto. A study of theology stirs our sisters to a constructive self activity, builds up a technique of good habits, habits of righteousness, and a loyalty to our church and its standards. Our duty is to know the will of God and do it. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the opening avenue—the open gate to the road or way from earth to heaven through which direct revelations come to the children of men. It RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE establishes faith in God, that He is our Father, and that Jesus Christ is our Elder Brother. Faith is an eternal principle and is a direct gift of God. We must put our faith in a God of law and order. After all our endeavors to obtain wisdom from the best books, there still remains an open fountain for all, "If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God." Our study creates a love for our church works, and an eagerness to read and re-read the Word of God. Through our study of theology, the doctrines of our church become plainer and more beautiful and the duties of parents, as to the instruction of their children, cannot be misunderstood. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 68—25th verse, we read this great exhortation, "And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God. And of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents." "What our deepest self craves is not mere enjoyment, but some supreme purpose that will enlist all our powers and will give unity and direction to our life. We can never know the profoundest joy without a conviction that our life is significant, not a meaningless episode. The loftiest aim of human life is the ethical perfecting of mankind—the transfiguration of humanity." (Henry J. Golding) In summary: 1. We must study our gospel— the church works, the theology of our religion. 2. We must have faith in God and in his ministry and in his delegated authority. 3. We must study our duties and obligations to our children, and theirs to their parents. 4. In brief, we must believe the gospel, preach the gospel, and live it. 5. We must learn by doing the things of God. MRS. CORA L. BENNION LESSON PRESENTATION THE successful teacher must continually be a student." An educator of great fame was asked why he found it necessary to prepare for each day's lesson. He said he preferred that his students drink from a running stream rather than from a stagnant pool. This standard of teaching requires a great deal of time and effort, but all that we can do to help ourselves become better teachers, will return to us in rich experience and a larger capacity for service, and bring to us joy and satisfaction in our work. The teacher should have the right attitude toward her task, with a full appreciation of her opportunities and responsibilities. The end of all our teaching is not merely to impart information, but to develop character. When a teacher has finished her work with a student. The efficiency of her work is determined not so much by what the student knows as by what she is. Education is a problem of developing personalities. The factors that enter into the process are many and complex in their relationship. What should be the teacher's equipment for this undertaking? It should be much more than merely learning the subjects that are to be taught. This must be part of the equipment of a teacher, but not the most important part. The teacher must know the real nature of her group in order to bring the lesson within their experience and their appreciation. She must adapt the lesson to fit her group. "The value of our teaching is always to be measured by the degree to which it finds expression in the lives of those we teach." Knowledge is without meaning except as it becomes a guide to action. Do the lessons we teach find expression in the home? Are they helping us to improve our lives each day? Jesus was the greatest teacher because He lived the lessons He taught. His teachings entered into the lives and conduct of His students. The best teachers are those who inspire their students to want to study and take part in the lesson. "The greatest service that any teacher ever renders to her students is in the development of the ability to solve the various problems which life presents." "The great art of teaching is to teach in such a way that students will want to do the things that they should." The address by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith will be published in a later number. NETTIE D. BRADFORD REINFORCEMENT OF AIM THROUGH TESTIMONY BEARING "A gift from God if neglected, or unworthily used, is in time withdrawn; the testimony of the truth will not remain with one who, having received, uses not the sacred gift in the cause of individual and general advancement. Study and strive to acquire the knowledge that leads towards, and the wisdom that shall reach, the goal of life eternal. Your testimony as to the truth of the restored Gospel may operate towards salvation or condemnation as it is used or misused." —Joseph F. Smith. The purpose and practice of testimony bearing in Relief Society is to renew our faith and testimony. It is not the chief purpose of testimony bearing to accumulate physical evidences of the truth of the Gospel but rather to cultivate the spirit of the Lord within the hearts of our sisters. Testimony bearing has a strong educational influence upon our lives and feelings and tends to cultivate within us thankfulness and appreciation for the many blessings we enjoy. Our testimony meetings should have as one of our aims, the cultivation of our feelings of gratitude, not only towards our Heavenly Father but towards friends, neighbors and all God's children. "It is an excellent way to make people helpful and thankful to others by first making them thankful to God." —Joseph F. Smith. The more we speak of the goodness of the Lord to us, the more our hearts are filled with love and appreciation and sincere gratitude for the many blessings showered upon each and everyone of our Father's children here upon the earth. We are made happier by giving expression to those inner feelings. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE "Search out the truth of the written word, listen for and receive the truth declared by living prophets and teachers; enrich your minds with the best knowledge and facts. Of those who speak in His name the Lord requires humility, not ignorance. Individual testimony is a personal possession." —Joseph F. Smith. One cannot give her testimony to another yet she is able to aid another in gaining a testimony. When one is under the influence of the Holy Spirit that influence is felt by others and the testimony of one often strengthens that of another. "Truth commends itself to every honest person. It matters not how simply it is told, and when it is received it seems as though we had been acquainted with it all our lives. It is the testimony of the Latter-day Saints that when they first heard the Gospel preached as contained in the Bible and Doctrine and Covenants although entirely new to them, it seemed as though they already understood and must have been 'Mormons' from the beginning." —Brigham Young. MRS. ELISE B. ALDER THE WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE Heavenly Gifts Lo! From its heavenly home where angels sing Soft lullabies, a little child they bring To earth; and seeking tenderest care Such as in heaven has been its wont to share, They find the nearest semblance to God's grace, Lives in a woman's heart, shines in her face, So deeming her most fit, at heaven's behest, Bright angels give the baby to her breast, And mother-love is born—henceforth it fills The woman's soul; and all creation thrills. No love alone completes the heavenwrought plan, 4 Nor builds the strength and character of man, Nor moulds his mind immortal. Were it so Each mother's babe a perfect child would grow But love has never kept disease away, Nor o'er the hand of death does love hold sway, 'Tis her's', the mother's task, to find the light, And guide and guard the baby life aright, By all the truth earth's wisest men have learned, By all the skill their patient toil has earned. —Annie D. Palmer. MY dear Sisters: I think I can see on your faces this morning the same look of interest that was seen on the faces of those magnificent audiences of three thousand knowledge giving, knowledge seeking people who met at the White House Conference in Washington, D. C. November 19-22, 1930, at the call of President Herbert Hoover. They were leaders in the medical, educational and social field as they touch the life of a child. They were representatives from the various States and present upon the invitation of the President to receive what had been found on the important subjects pertaining to the welfare of children. You are here from the various stakes of Zion at the call of the President of the National Woman's Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as class leaders in the social service work as it touches the life of the child, with the knowledge of the Gospel in your hearts guiding you in the enlightening of mothers in 642 the Relief Society as to the welfare of their children. The call for the White House Conference went out in July, 1929, as one of the early acts of President Hoover, who announced that it was to study the present status of the health and wellbeing of the children of the United States and its possessions; to report what is being done; to recommend what ought to be done and how to do it. There had been two other White House Conferences held, the first one called by President Theodore Roosevelt in 1909, the second by President Woodrow Wilson in 1919. The results of both these earlier conferences have been broad and far reaching, and their recommendations are influencing social and legislative protection for children. This third conference included the subjects in two former conferences, but the range was enlarged to take in not only the dependent child or the special need of protection, but all children in their total respects. To find facts, to define standards to recommend changes were the aims of the conference. These experts in the various fields of child-life, gave a service largely voluntary, the results of which are immeasurable. Sixteen months were devoted to preparatory study, research and assembling of facts on the part of 1,200 experts, working on nearly 150 different committees, assembled under 17 main committees, divided into four sections: Medical Service, Public Health and Administration, Education and Training, and the Handicapped. Commencing on page 51 of our textbook we find the findings, conclusions and recommendations of the many subjects that were considered. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE At the closing session of the conference, nineteen points embodying the main recommendations of the committees were presented. These points in final form represented the core of the conference findings. As the Children's Charter, they go on record as the aims toward which the conference hopes to lead public thought and action for the children of the country, in other words, or in short the Children's Charter is a crystallization of the needs of the children of our United States, the outcome of the White House Conference in 1930. The study of childhood is the key to the future. It needs patient and careful study. It needs insight and sympathy. It needs hard work, but it is worth it a thousand times worth it, and the future shall be our reward. The present century is often called the Century of the Child. If the present generation can merit the title it will be to our everlasting glory, for with the child lies our hope. This then is our task, a sacred task too, and worthy of the best we can give it. It is the hope and prayer of this committee, headed by Mrs. Lalene H. Hart, that from now on this book, the outcome of the great White House Conference held in Washington, D. C. In November, 1930, may be a help and an inspiration to you in your work more in the future than it has been in the past. Let us study this book and weave its contents into our lesson work, remembering that the best minds and the noblest workers of this country were employed for more than a year studying the problems of childhood, and their findings have been classified and condensed into a compilation, our text for the coming year. RED EEeeeCIEATY CONFERENCE 643 DR. L. JOHN NUTTALL HAVE only a few suggestions similar to the discussion a year ago. Last week a lady, whose business takes her into many of the Latterday Saint homes, met me in one of the stores, she said: "I think you ought to teach these things to the parents." When I enquired why, she told me about many different kinds of homes in which she has to go at frequent intervals, and some of the scenes that happen in these homes. Sometimes the children are crying and yelling. They will not let their mother sit and talk in a courteous way to a visitor. Yesterday I saw a mother on the street with a seven year old youngster. She was very much ashamed of what that youngster "was doing, and she attempted to pacify him. The reason she had to pacify him on the street, was that she had continued to pacify him ever since he was born, instead of training him. She thinks he is a bad boy now, and he is, but he is doing exactly what she taught him to do. It is not difficult to picture what happened in that home. The social service lessons last year and for the coming year were designed by your General Board committee, I sat in and gave a little help in the preparation of the lessons, and in working out the ideas presented for the lessons. These lessons were to call the attention of the mothers of the Church who had the. Responsibility of young children to the fact that there is a_ specific method of approach to the problems of behavior. If you want a youngster to cry, you can train him so that he will do it. If you want him to be a good natured chap, and not cry; you can train him to do that. The training principle is the same in both cases, the product is different because of the method used. I am going to read the topics through, in order to illustrate the point: 1. Factors in Physical Growth. 2. Factors in Early Habit Formation. Sleep of Children. Food and Eating Habits. Sex and Emotional Maturity. Socialized Conduct. Play and Play Facilities. Constructive use of out of School Time. 9. Home and School. If you look at these lessons and read over the list you will find physical growth, food, eating, sleep, all mentioned. It sounds like a course in nutrition, or medical care of children. That is just exactly what it is not. The purpose of all of the lessons is to focus attention on the problem. Of behavior. The lessons ought to help people who study them in making the youngster eat what is fed to him, or keep him from eating what is not fed to him. It does not matter whether you put your youngster to bed at 7, 8 or 9 o'clock, but there is a type of child behavior which makes for health, and for peace in the family, that makes youngsters go to bed and go to sleep at the time set. We are not concerned in these lessons that the class members learn point by point all the facts, but we are concerned very much that the people who study these lessons see the possible behavior problems of growth. Each lesson is prepared in five distinct parts. The first part of each lesson is usually an introduction, which leads to a statement of aim. The first lesson begins this way: "Knowledge plus a will to use knowledge 644 in doing one's work gives one added power. Effective child care is dependent on the growth results of what is done for children." That sentence establishes a point contact, or point of view. In some of the lessons the introductory statement is a little longer than this. It introduces the general topic in the relation of physical growth to behavior. The second part of each lesson, running right through, is a statement of a suggestive purpose. No one can write for others what specific goals are to be set up, but one can suggest the type of aim towards which others | should strive. In this lesson we make this suggestion; to develop a desire on the part of parents to use knowledge about the physical growth of children in planning their clothes, recreation, education, daily work, and other activities. The aim then is to have the parents desire to use knowledge in meeting these problems of every day life. The Second aim is to give facts to be learned and used by the class members, but not to take the responsibility of drilling until every one of these facts is learned by class members. The aim is simply to set before the class a body of facts about child growth, and build up in the class members a desire to let these facts help them in determining what to do with the children. The third part of each lesson is wholly for the class teacher, not the class member. It is again suggestive; many of you can work out procedures better than this. This first lesson suggests as follows: "Assign the reading guide for careful home study. This will achieve the first aim and point out how the information given in the supplementary material has immediate value to parents and teachers." You know what these little pamphlets are. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE suggestion for the material in this lesson is not to use for studying the pamphlets but to assign a reading guide for home study. "Assign for topical study, analysis and report the following items from the report of White House Conference 1930. Take time in class to have these reports given." You take time in the class before, or at the beginning to suggest to the members that they read from the pamphlets. That part of the teaching is general. Then you take these specific topics which are very vital, from the Report of the White House Conference, and assign three people to make a topical report in the class time. After these reports are made the teacher uses the rest of the class time going through the supplementary material. In this way the attention of the class members is called to it. They are advised that it is worthwhile to know this information. This is simple teaching. Give them some work to do at home; have three class members come and make some topical reports, and the teacher take the responsibility of going through in a suggestive way, the supplementary material printed in the lessons in the Relief Society Magazine. The next part of every lesson is the reading guide. It is to be used quite generally as is suggested in the lesson. This one happens to be a reading guide which contains a lot of facts. In making the assignment you would go through these problems— do not try to answer them all. "Make a list of specific items listed on pages 8, 9, and 13." "Growth," which makes clear the meaning of growth and development. We have in our own family now two boys two years apart in age. But the younger is the taller. He is big as far as size is concerned, but in development still only a baby. He does more crying than any of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the other three youngsters in the home, because people abuse him, they think he is grown up. The fifth part of each lesson is a guide to supplementary material which is not in the material to be read. This might be available to class teachers if they had access to a university library, or to a fine psychological department in a public library, but very few of you have such accessible material, so we have selected some material which you can use. We suggest that you spend most of your class time calling attention of the class members to this, because most of the other part is well cared for in the reading. This particular first lesson has a table of Heights and Weights. Do not have these memorized. Suggest that because it will be in their Magazine, that if they want to know whether their child is very far from the normal height and weight for his age, they can get an idea from this chart that might help them in solving the problem of their child. If they have a child six years old, 45 inches high, weighing 70 pounds, the mother can look at this and knows her child is overweight. Much use has been made of height and weight tables in recent years in order to check the growth of individual children. These tables have very little value because of the many factors which enter into the height and weight of the child. It is very important that the growth be con- 645 tinuous, that it does not stop for a while, and then start again. 'The behavior of the child is controlled in part by conscious attention to the problem of physical growth. We follow this with a significant analysis of what is commonly known as the anatomical age. Some of you may have wondered why children of six years old do things that are not done by other people. Children who are large physically are not capable of doing the same things that older children of the same height and weight can do. Capability is not measured in terms of years and months, but by bone and muscle and nerve development. Many of the Relief Society teachers say: 'There is so much more than we can possibly teach." It is good news when teachers begin, to complain this way. Do not try to teach in the sense of academic learning in half an hour all of the material present. See the specific problems in the course in terms of behavior, pick out a specific aim, achieve the aim and you have taught your lesson. You may hope that each lesson will lead to further study and application from your class room into the homes of the members of your class. The teaching will not be difficult if you keep clearly in mind that there is a behavior problem before you all the time. Do not try to do everything. Keep the class members conscious of their problems, and interested in studying to solve them. MRS. LOTTA PAUL BAXTER HE Savior loved to teach in parables, and whenever I think of Relief Society workers t he thought uppermost in my mind is the parable of the Sower, Matthew 13:3. Relief Society teachers are among the greatest sowers of seed to be found in our every day life. The pulpit speaker is losing ground and is no longer able to sway. Big audi- 646 ences by his persuasive methods, but the quiet worker who has access to the home and the small group, one who carries a worthwhile message, is the teacher of the future. As I see these teachers faithfully going from door to door in two's, with a regularity that in itself is a magnificent testimony to the cause in which they work and their devotion to it, I say to myself how privileged they are to be part of a royal army numbering over 23,000, making 881,436 visits last year. If one seed is sown at each visit, what do you think the harvest will be? What kind of seed are we sowing? Where are the seeds falling? Good seed, good soil, are indispensable for a worthwhile harvest, but there is still something that must accompany the seed and the soil. It is the spirit of the message and of the messenger. Have you experienced the joy of warmth and power in your work that you know has come from your Father in heaven? I have attended a number of teacher-training meetings, and I too have partaken of the inspiration there. As I watched the eager faces of the women listening as they drank in the message of love and goodwill, I said in my heart "this is one of the most faith-promoting endeavors of Relief Society work." Have you ever thought as you read the scripture that the Savior might have been speaking to you and of your work when He said, "I am the vine, ye are the branches." Let us think this over in simple terms and see what connection there is between the vine and the branches. If there were no vine, there would be no branches, and conversely if there were no branches there would be no vine. Holding firmly to the lifegiving earth the roots make for stability and permanence, sending nourishment to the most remote parts of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the branches. On the branches are found the leaves, the blossom and the fruit, each adding its strength, beauty and usefulness to the whole. And we are told that "By their fruits ye shall know them." Is our fruit desirable? Is it a credit to us and the work we represent? Do we do this work from a sense of duty because we do not like to refuse, or do we love to do it? Do we feel it a privilege to be called to the work? There are so many items forming teachers' work that to me. It weaves a chain which -is very impressive. These are the links of the chain: 1. Vision of the work. 2. Teachers' Topic committee of General Board. 3. Relief Socicty Magazine, containing the message. 4. Stake Teacher-training and the Union Meeting. 5. Ward teacher-trainer and the one o'clock meeting. 6. Faithful eager group gathered there. 7. The visiting teachers going on their districts. 8. The homes which receive them. 9. Spirit of inspiration. No chain in broken parts is attractive, only when it is connected in harmony with its neighbor, pulling together instead of pulling apart, has it the power to call forth admiration from those who witness it. These are the forces which make our work a success, and no chain is stronger than its weakest link. J ask you in your special capacity, is your link the weak one, or through devotion to the cause and earnest prayer have you made your work the strong link? Let us take the first link: 1. Why vision? We are told, "Where there is no vision the people RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE perish." In every endeavor we must see the possibilities ahead, and not the mere task in hand. 2. Why a teachers' topic committee? Other lessons are prepared by people outside of the board, but this lesson is the product of women steeped in the spirit of Relief Society work. Almost a year before the topics are printed, thoughtfully, prayerfully these faithful women meet to decide what will breathe into the hearts of the women in the homes, the most encouragement, the most faith, the most ambition. Have they succeeded? As a humble partaker of the richness of that message, I say they have. 3. Why the Magazine? This faithful little messenger, coming regularly every month with its outlines of lessons should be in the hands of every teacher carrying as it does a complete educational setup, but greatest of all it breathes into us the spirit of love and faith and service. 4, Why stake teacher-trainer and union meeting? Here we find the almost perfect system of institute work, where in departments teachers teach other teachers, and the spirit and the method is passed on to the ward worker. 5. Why the ward teacher-trainer and one o'clock meeting? Here are the messengers who spread out into the homes with the revivifying mes- 647 sage. The subject matter is treated simply but with great spirit and force and here the vision of the work. Is broadened. 6. The teachers? If you are not convinced in your own mind that Relief Society teaching is a great force in the community, attend a successful ward teacher-trainer meeting and you will doubt no more. The eager, earnest group gathered there determined to get the best possible foundation for their special work through the inspiration of the topic and its message. '7, And then comes the eventful day of teaching. I have had the rare privilege of seeing five pairs of teachers at the same time going in different directions on their mission of love, and my heart has been touched deeply by the simple beauty of it. 8. The homes which receive them? Does the spirit of that home reach out to encourage and bless the visitor, or do they expect the teacher to furnish the topic, spirit, strength and everything that goes to make a visit a success? Let us all do our part. 9. Back to the beginning is the spirit of inspiration, without which there is no teaching. The mere message, the call, is vain, useless without the spirit which giveth life. PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON T is a very important thing to stand before you women and suggest any other thing for you todo. Iam addressing, in the main, stake officers and stake board members, especially those who have charge of the visiting teachers. I wonder if you caught the vision this morning that I did while Sister Baxter was giving her beautiful address. I wonder how any ward or stake worker could say, "We have not time for a visiting teachers' meeting' and yet that word does come to us. I was thinking of how many of us have had husbands or sons or daughters on missions, and how we have worked and sacrificed in order to keep them on missions, and how 648 proud we are of them when they write home and tell us that they addressed a group on a street corner, or that they had a conversation in a home with some intelligent person. We all like to feel that our dear ones are so well prepared on the Gospel that they can discuss the subject with ministers, and other educated people. No missionary has a greater opportunity for preaching the Gospel than do the members of this great army of visiting teachers, who must know how to meet each woman in the district, as each one may require a different approach. It is only through the Spirit of God that we can, any of us, reach the human soul. When missionaries go into the field, they are drilled on the principles of the Gospel, so that they will know what to say when they go out. It is just as important for these visiting teachers to be drilled and know the subject they are to take. They must know it better than a teacher. It is known all over the world that the best method of carrying a message is from house to house. The Government is asking that we do this in the N. R. A. Sisters, the Lord's way is always best. We have eight, ten or twelve women in the district of a pair of ward visiting teachers. They can get so close to these women that they know their needs—whether they need to be. Encouraged to go to sacrament meeting, or to send their children to Primary, Sunday School and Mutual. There must be a desire, a willingness to serve, and a knowledge of how to do it. The Relief Society visiting teacher must have this, or she could not leave her home one day a month and do her fine work in the community. I wonder if in all these 881,436 homes a vital message was left last year. I wonder if the mothers were RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE better prepared to be mothers and Latter-day Saints because of the visits that were made, if they were not, what is lacking? We have the opportunity. This fine group of women to get training in our stake officers' meeting, and in our wards. The subject to discuss is given to us in our Magazine, and if we are as efficient as we want our missionaries to be we must be on our tip toes, full of this teachers' topic. We are told that what the world needs is spirituality. This world needs unselfishness too, while there are women in homes who never get out to hear spirituality, and those who do not care much about it, and who are rearing children to know little about it. If people would only follow the Savior's advice there would be ideal homes, and ideal communities where everything would be ideal, but we are selfish and hard to control. The world now is in misery everywhere, and good people are suffering with those who helped bring on this distress. The teachers' topics that were outlined last year on the Beatitudes were so lovely. The first lesson for this year—The Great Objective of Life" should challenge us. What is the great objective of life? The answer rings out, "To obtain exaltation and to become like God." Could we teach this—could we go into the homes and tell the women that this is the objective of life—to become like God—what an incentive to progress. The world never heard of such a statement until a few years ago, and very few now comprehend it, but we have had this revealed to us, that we can become as God if we are obedient. Some of the busy women in the homes do not take time to study; some have not the desire, but if we RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE could only teach them that the great objective of life is to obtain exaltation and become like God, surely this is a challenge to any woman, no matter how little she cares. This lesson tells us also that the Gospel is not just something for Sunday, it is not just long prayers, but it is service for the day. Brigham Young is quoted as saying: "Our work is a work of the present." I am glad that statement was put in our first lesson, as it certainly must make us realize that we have something te give to the world, not only to the people outside, but our members here, children of the pioneers who have made sacrifice to come, all too many of them do not know why we are here, and what our opportunities are. So I am glad that this committee has made this challenge to us, and I believe, class leaders in the stakes, if you will pray for light, if you will be so full of the Gospel, you can put this message over to the ward class leaders, and they in turn to the women they visit. This is a most wonderful thing, and it is every day that we are to do this. If I attend to what devolves upon me to do today, and do that, then tomorrow I can become more like God. What are trials? What are these little trivial things we are going through, when we can, by the Spirit of God help each other and develop that divine spark within us that can achieve such greatness. Think of the women in your districts, of the women in your wards whom you will visit, who can be helped by knowing that characterbuilding is the most important business in life; that we are here, and it is the way we meet life that determines how soon we will become as God. I pray that the spirit of this calling will rest upon you, as it is one of the 649 most important callings that can come—to be a visiting teacher who will take a vital message into the homes, who will stimulate the women who have not the spirit to lead better lives, and to those who are doing well to further inspire them to go on. It is the most thrilling thing we have in the whole world. If this could only be carried forward as there is possibility for it to be, we would have very few people leave the Church, very few people indifferent, very few criticisms, because these teachers could lift them above the petty things. Do you see the need of a topic? It depends upon the spirit that is with you in giving your message. It is the Spirit of God, the work of the Savior, to go into the homes and help lift a load off the people, and help them to see the light. That you may do this, I humbly pray, for it is the greatest lesson and opportunity that can come. It is not all sacrifice. There is no teacher who studies the lessons, and prays for strength who is not benefited. And so it is just to the degree of excellence with which we do our work whether or not we will have joy in it. If we only half do our work we will have no pleasure, if we do it from a sense of duty we will have no joy, but if we feel that we are a branch of this vine, and that our Father in Heaven has felt us to be worthy to be a member of that branch, and that we can carry this work when it is here to do, then we will have joy. I pray you may have the strength and the love of humanity enough that at the end of this season these 881,436 homes you have visited will be so lifted up that they will feel to declare, ""How beautiful upon the mountain are the feet of them who bring glad tidings," because that is what the visiting teacher does. Officers' Meeting PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON OUR presence here touches beyond the power of expression. We have such a large audience this morning. We would like our stake officers to see our lovely rooms on the second floor. Just recently the Presiding Bishopric have fitted up a very fine office for the Welfare Department in the Young Building, and you are invited most cordially to go over and see it. We are sure you will be delighted. We have a room fitted up for stake officers on the second floor of this, the Bishop's Building. It is not luxurious, but there are lots of conveniences, and you are so welcome. When you stake officers come into town, if you do not know just where to have your mail directed, have it sent to Relief Society Headquarters. There are desks and stationery and a telephone where you may call your friends. Lots of you people stay in hotels and have to pay ten cents a call, so just come into the office and use the telephone. This is your home when you are in the City. Make appointments to meet each other here, as we are happy to have you. The Magazine Department sends to the stakes order blanks and receipt books in the early part of the season for the agents. These must get lost, because the ward agents are sending in all the time for them. Will you sisters in the stakes check up and see if they have been left in your homes. We hope that this year there will be so many subscriptions that you will not have enough receipt books and order blanks. This year we have a new record ~ handbook. _ paring book. We are having no small record books made, as we found they were not satisfactory. The books will be one-third larger but will be the same price as they have been before. We are still recommending our excellent handbook. Possibly you presidents would be relieved of a lot of anxiety if you would read your So often you take the time and go to the expense of writing and asking questions which are answered in the handbook. There is one little correction that we are going tomake. For years, ever since our dear sisters came from Nauvoo, they spoke of the Relief Society as being organized in the Masonic Lodge Room. When we were prefor the monument, and through investigation in the Church Historian's Office, we found that the Relief Society really was not organized in the present Masonic Hall, which is pictured on page 24. We have stickers prepared now for this correction, and the General Board want you to know that it is as accurate as it is possible to be. This sticker is the width of the page, and can be stuck right in the handbook beneath the picture of the Masonic Hall. It reads: "Recent research in the Historian's Office has disclosed the fact that the Relief Society was organized in the Lodge Room over the brick store which stood on the Joseph Smith homestead, and not in the New Masonic Hall which was built in 1844, and which is pictured above The old store has been destroyed." We have long been eager to have RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE a Relief Society song, something that is inspiring, and that we could sing in our meetings; something that we could all know, which would carry the enthusiasm of Relief Society. We offered a prize of $25.00 to anyone who would submit the kind of a poem that we had in mind, and $25.00 to the person who would compose the music. There have been some very lovely things sent in, but not one of them was just the type we wanted, so we are going to ask you to think it over again, and sometime when you feel that enthusiasm, something fine and big in Relief Society, the spirit of the Lord I believe will come to you, and you will catch that message, and be able to produce the song. It is not so much the theme of beauty alone, as it is the message of Relief Society, so we are asking you to explain to your people in the stakes who have submitted these poems. The same holds true of the music. We have had professional people pass on the numbers. There is some of the music that is lovely, but it is not just what we wish. In some of the wards we still find there is lack of hospitality. We go to meeting and are so earnest in the work we are doing, that we are not as attentive as we might be to those fine women who come to our meetings. I think we are very practical in our organization, but we do not feel that way when a friend comes to ourhome. Weare happy to have her come, and we tell her so. Cannot we take this hospitality into the Ward Relief Societies? When people go there some are a little diffident, some have a sorrow, and are a little bit sensitive. They need the friendship and cooperation of the sisters, and they leave sometimes feeling that they have not been treated quite as courteously as might 651 have been. There is nothing in the world that makes work go so smoothly, as to be thoughtful and courteous to everyone. We are hoping that this will work out a little more extensively in the wards. I have been thrilled in visiting our stake conferences, to see how the ward houses have been made beautiful and attractive. I can hardly refrain now from speaking the names of some of these. I believe that all of you know the softening influence of flowers and beautiful surroundings in your wards. In the correspondence of the general office and the stakes, what we write to a stake president is for the stake president and her board alone. It may be that we wish to get over a message into the wards, and it would spoil anything that could be done if this was made public. We write to you on subjects that are for you, and you can readjust them, and soften them down if we are a bit harsh, and adjust them to suit the situation. Do not show it to the people whom we are trying to help, because we have unburdened our hearts to you in confidence. In our stake meetings we are always treated so beautifully, and the stake board prepares a delicious luncheon for us. Of course we all appreciate this very much, but sometimes the board members have to leave the stake board meeting, which is especially their meeting, to prepare this repast.. We wonder if you could not possibly ask some of the wards, or someone who is in need of help, to do this? I was at a stake just a few weeks ago, where, when we were through with our meeting at 12 o'clock, we went right into a room where there was a real banquet ready. The President said: "Now the ward that we are meeting in is in need of funds, and so we have 652 asked this group to prepare this excellent luncheon for us, and we will pay the ward out of our funds." It may be done this way, or it may be that some of the sisters in your stake who are excellent cooks could supply it, and let you take care of the expense. When there is an official stake board meeting we feel that the members should all be there. I think we have never had anything that has been more confusing in all of the stakes, than to know how to give credit for visits to the sick. I think the best rule is to ask what does your Relief Society stake president decide? She knows the situation and will be just. There is a question that perhaps has come up before, and that is, What should be done about credit for taking care of the sick who do not belong to the Church? In wards where there is no other agency to take care of them, where the county is failing, even after you have petitiond for care of these non-Latterday Saints, so there is just as much credit, and it should be given for taking care of people outside of the Church, as for people in the Church. This is under the direction, of course, of your stake and ward president. Iam sure you presidents who have had a longer term of office know about this, but we have a number of new presidents coming in, and the question has been asked a number of times, where several board members go to visit one ward, do you say there were five visits to the ward, if there were five board members, or is it one visit? It is one visit, no matter if your whole board is in attendance. In the minutes, the secretary may say that there were five board members present, but it is one visit by the stake board. We have before us this Fall one of the most important things that we RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ever had to face, and that is the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment. With the permission of the General Authorities of the Church, the Y. L. M. I. A., and Y. M. M. I. A., the Primary and Relief Society, are working to retain the Eighteenth Amendment. It does not matter whether it is a president of Relief Society, Mutual, Primary or a Methodist Minister who is the chairman, but work for the cause. It is a challenge to the people of our Church. The eyes of the world are upon us, and I believe that there is not anything more important than to have each woman in the Church consider honestly what her opinion is on this vital issue. All stake presidents, will you please, when you get home, if you care to, advise with your priesthood presidents, take it up in the wards and see that there is an organization in the ward, that every home will have the opportunity of knowing our stand, and what is expected of Latter-day Saints. We cannot direct their votes, but we must let them know how we feel about it, and what the real issue is. After all the millions and millions that have been spent by the wealthy men of the United States to get the wet propaganda before the people, making it possible and plausible that drinking will bring back prosperity, when in your hearts you know that there was never a man who drank who was as capable of earning money as if he did not drink; when you know that the dollar or ten cents spent for liquor cannot be used to buy milk and shoes, that it is taking legitimate money out of legitimate channels and misusing it, you can see that it cannot bring back prosperity. It is the wealthy men who are doing this to try and get the poor people to pay the taxes. One of the Duponts said before congress RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE that if they could get the people drinking fifty billion dollars worth of beer a year, it would save them millions of dollars in taxes. Can you see who is doing it? When they tell you they are doing it for. The good of the people, what people are being blessed by alcohol in the homes? Think it over sisters, and I pray our Heavenly Father to bless you that you will know what to do, but see that every woman in Utah has the opportunity to vote in November. Brother Merrill said that Latter-day Saints could not consistently do anything else than support the Eighteenth Amendment. We tell our boys and girls that God does reveal His will, and we repeat it at home and pay for our boys and girls to go out into the world to preach the Gospel and tell that God has revealed the Word of Wisdom. Let us not be swept off our feet by the plausible reasons that are given to us by men who are not working for the good of the working people of the world. 653 I pray that the blessings of the Lord will be with you sisters. I pray that you will see what is the best for your women at home. Facing the situation as we are today, it looks a dark miserable outlook for the world, but God is at the helm, and no matter what conditions come He will help us. You are working for His people, and I believe that we will need to suffer possibly until we have proven that we are working for the people, but in your work do not forget that you are working for God, and that He is willing and able to help you, and though the clouds do look dark, though you wonder how you can clothe and feed and support the people in your districts, do not get discouraged, this is the work of the Lord and He will bless us. I pray that you will never be left alone, but that you will always feel that the spirit of the Lord is near you, and that you will have the help that is needed, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. KATE M. BARKER PREVIEW OF THEOLOGY "*There's a hard wind blowing today, which helps, if you're going in the right direction.' Soa farmer-friend writes me out of the West. The sentence might well express what is happening in our contemporary life. There is a hard wind of new ideas blowing."—Overstreet. There is a new wind of new ideas blowing, and never were ideas more conflicting, never was the battle between right and wrong waged more fiercely. All the ideas and standards of the world are brought to our very doors. Life has never been more a matter of choosing. Esau's condemnation came because of wrong choosing, he chose a mess of pottage in place of his birthright, which is typical of what all are tempted to do. We need, as never before, guidance to keep us going in the right direction. The Doctrine and Covenants is God's message, His guiding message, to us today. We hope our theological lessons for the coming year will increase our faith and strengthen our testimonies in the divinity of the Gospel—the only sure guide to the road we must follow. Our lessons are: 1. Obedience to Law the Basis of Reward. 2. The Law of Consecration. 3, Obedience to Civil Law. 654 4. The Word of Wisdom. 5. Responsibility of Conveying the Truth to Others. 6. Intelligence and Future Life. 7. Gifts of the Spirit. 8. Zion the New Jerusalem. 9. Death and the Resurrection. Some are spiritual lessons, some give us the temporal law, yet the two cannot be separated, because from obeying temporal laws spiritual blessings come. The general theme running through the lessons is that of obedience. "There is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated. And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." From each of the lessons we hope to get some specific spiritual truth which will strike a responsive chord in our hearts, and which we can apply in our lives, and that as a result of all these specific truths our general aim will be realized—increased faith, stronger testimony. These spiritual truths which are gained from each lesson will sink deeper in our hearts if carried over into testimony bearing. Impressions are intensified by expression. One form of activity which builds us up is expression. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE A testimony is like everything else worthwhile, it is a matter of growth. It comes through personal experiences, through actively seeking it, and through expressing it little by little as it grows. Our testimonies are not equal. Some have an absolute knowledge. Their experiences in life and the testimony of the spirit has given them this knowledge. We need their testimony. Bearing it helps to keep it alive and strengthens those who hear. Our Gospel is one of mutual helpfulness and _ self-expression. 'There are others whose testimony is not so strong. We wish to encourage them to bear testimony to those truths which through their experience they know to be true. The specific truths in our lessons will give them this opportunity. If we earnestly seek a testimony, if we build on what we do know, and give expression to it, the Lord will crown our efforts with the testimony of the Holy Spirit. The gratitude we have to our Heavenly Father for all His blessings is intensified by expression. The great need today is to recapture that fervid, energizing testimony which will guide us in the right direction, and lead to a greater consecration of our lives to the work of the Lord. MARY C. KIMBALL PREVIEW OF LITERATURE LESSONS OUR Literary course for this year. Life and Literature, is unusually fine. The lessons in the magazine are very illuminating and the text, The Story of the World's Literature, by John Macy, is as interesting as a novel. We urge all officers to get as many as possible to attend the sessions and to participate widely in the discussion. Class leaders should endeavor to encourage those who are not readers to form the reading habit. By so doing an inestimable benefit will be conferred upon these women. Recently I heard a friend say that RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE she knew an old woman who was a most pitiable figure. She had never learned to love books, and now in her old age she has no interests. She doesn't read. She doesn't participate in any group activities. How different was another woman who told her daughter on one occasion, "I love to have you come and visit me, but never come because you think I am lonely. I never can be lonely while I have my books." This woman through a long life had made it a practice to keep a record of the books she had read, the impressions they: had made on her, and what critics said of them, so when her daughter wished to know what to read, she would phone her mother, because she knew she could tell her the things that would be of great interest. "Dreams—books are each a world and books we know Are a substantial world, pure and good Round them with 'tendrils strong as flesh and blood Our pastimes and our happiness will grow." 655 The lesson headings in Life and Literature are, after an introductory lesson, The Gifts of the Greeks to the World. The Roman View of Life. The Bible, A Record of the Life and Literature of the Ancient Hebrews. The Bible as Literature. The Hebrew Classics. The Romantic Spirit. The Tempest. The Spiritual Values of Literature. These lessons will give us an outlet for our finest emotions and thoughts, will ennoble our thinking, and beauty will sink into our souls and will enrich our lives. They will build for us higher and higher ideals, for "every masterpiece of literature, whatever its theme, is rooted in an ideal, reflects an ideal, and illustrates an ideal." Through the study of these lessons, we will be transformed by the renewing of our minds, cultural refinement and joy will come to those who study them. LALENE H. HART PREVIEW OF SOCIAL SERVICE LESSON SINCE the beginning of civilization forward looking people have directed their thinking and efforts towards making the human race more efficient. John Dewey has said, "What the best and wisest parent wants for his own child that must the community want for all its children." The aim of our social service course is to establish in the minds of our people that whatever raises or lowers the standard of, the individual will likewise determine the standard of home, the influence of which, will extend to the community and the nation. What the standard and the ideals of our nation will be tomorrow will depend on how well we have lived today. Women have a unique role to play. Into their hands fall much of the intimate personal part of living. It behooves them, therefore, to educate themselves for this vital task. They need to understand not only the importance of their work as it touches the members of their own families in their own homes, but its importance as it influences the members of the family in their contacts outside, and the possibilities of extending, through their own activities, the benefits of their knowledge and experience in the care of human life, 656 to the community. They need to know how to meet wisely the basic human needs, to detect when the specialist is needed, and to know what ones are to be had. Ina word, they need to know the fundamental principles of science and art, a scientific point of view that enables them to keep an open mind, and an eagerness to keep mentally awake, a consciousness of the vital importance of their work that will make them respect it and themselves, to the point of bringing to it their finest powers. President Hoover's Committee on Social Trends found that in the last thirty years family life declined in social significance, although not in human values. The social and psychological functions of the family are as important as the economic ones. A few years ago we shied away from the responsibility of training in these functions, but we no longer fail to consider them in child care and training, personal development, character building and family stability. If home life and child care are as important to the national stability as sociologists have claimed, there is some evidence that a new program for family life is needed. The particular type of education or training that will help maintain the home as a significant unit in society is a difficult problem to contemplate and the part our social service lessons play in such a program is our chief concern. Our question is, "will the nature of this work be such that it will help to adjust to these functions?" If our lessons are approached from this standpoint they will not be taught as ends in themselves, but as a means to more satisfactory adjustment and personal development. We hope-you will not be too critical and feel that the lessons are too hard, too long, or RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE uninteresting. We have aimed to give you the latest and best compilation of findings and recommendations on the important subject of child health and protection, keeping in mind that the conservation of human life is the biggest job in which women have a part. The Children's Bureau, through its studies, estimates that nearly onefifth of the preschool children in the country are showing effects of poor nutrition, madequgte housing, lack of medical care and in many cases the effects of the anxiety and the sense of insecurity that prevails everywhere. Unless some tangible evidence of nutritional status can be used to make parents and teachers see their children as they really are, little can be accomplished by way of widespread betterment. In the interest of health education, knowledge of foods must needs become a part of the working equipment of every home. While a well rounded health education program in a community could only be realizd through cooperation of the doctors, nurses, social workers, home economists, teachers, and parents, upon the latter almost exclusively falls the responsibility of making it workable. In our lessons this year we deal with factors that are intensely vital to almost every human being, physically, mentally, and emotionally. Some of the most important values in home life are almost impossible to measure objectively and therefore there'is a tendency to ignore them, but just as the school is trying to readjust itself, revalue education, and maintain high standards for guidance of its students, just so must the parents face squarely and courageously the responsibility that makes for security, development, contentment, and happiness of those children entrusted to their care. It is RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE true we are facing many new and changed conditions and with them come rare opportunities to introduce into the lives of boys and girls new elements of happiness and permanent values which will mean finer citizens and more intelligent living. Mrs. Dorothy Canfield Fisher states as her belief that only trained educated human beings, living mostly on the spiritual, intellectual, and aesthetic plane will be able to adjust for healthful living in the new social order. Why should we not build towards a far better civilization than man has ever known? The family has endured in the past. It will continue to be the INEZ K. 657 fundamental institution from which will emerge strong personalities that will wield an influence for good upon the perplexing problems of the day. Someone has said that he wanted to go to school where they "taught all the branches." "But what about the roots," another asks. Are we seeing to it that as much nourishment as possible comes through the roots capable of feeding the branches. We appeal to you as officers and teachers to accept the challenge given you through the social service lessons, that every child may have an opportunity to reach its highest possibilities. INEZ K. ALLEN PREVIEW OF TEACHERS TOPIC IN recent years there have been so many failures and disappointments judged from a worldly point of view. The Teachers' Topic aims to help the mother in each home to see past the injustices and crude judgments of earth. It should help her to realize that what she is worth to God cannot be measured by worldly standards, because as William L. Phelps says: 'They are so coarse they are adapted only for gross and obvious results, one cannot weigh a_diamond on a hay scale, it would not register, yet its real worth would be many tons of hay." Honest effort, though followed by disappointment and the innermost yearnings of her heart, all count for something. It should teach her to count her blessings with an attitude of thankfulness, because real wealth may be measured by ability to appreciate. The weight of the load is conditioned by the attitude, like the boy who was carrying a child up a steep hill, when overtaken by a traveller who said, "Its too bad you must carry such a heavy burden," but the boy retorted "Oh, he aint very heavy, he's my brother." The topic aims to encourage each to seek for enduring satisfactions, seeking first the Kingdom of Heaven, purity of thought and life, honesty of purpose, and high ideal. It should encourage her to seek and find joy close to home, as the poet says: "T have found such joy in simple things: A plain, clean room, a nut-brown loaf of bread, A cup of milk, a kettle as it sings, The shelter of a roof above my head; And in a leaf-laced square upon a floor Where yellow sunlight glimmers through a door. "I have found such joy in things that fill My quiet days: a curtain's blowing grace, A growing plant upon a window sill, A rose, fresh-cut and placed within a vase; A table cleared, a lamp beside a chair, And books I long have loved, beside me there. 658 "Oh, I have found such joy! I wish I might Tell every woman who goes seeking far For some elusive, feverish delight, That very close to home the great joys are: These fundamental things—old as the race, Yet never, through the ages, commonplace." The topic should build self control as a means of preserving mutual love, for as the poet says: "The light of a whole life dies when love is done." Self control enables one to influence and govern others, and preserves one's own peace of mind. What more distressing than are the regrets for hastiness? Truly are we told in Proverbs "A soft answer turneth away wrath." God must be proud of one who, under stress, controls herself, and thereby keeps her heart open to the promptings of His Spirit. It has been expressed that '"'cheerfulness is the center color in life's bouquet." Ella Wheeler Wilcox truly said: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "The one worthwhile, is the one who can smile, When everything goes dead wrong." We all can recall a humble dwelling made a paradise by the cheerful mien and smiling face of a mother. The most destructive fear is that which destroys self confidence. It kills the "try" in one. "Believe in yourself, hang on to your self respect" it would say to each one. Women have never faltered in a time of stress. They gave birth to babies on the plains, sometimes buried loved ones by the roadside, and journeyed on. Pioneers had the courage to hope anew when overtaken by disappointment. As the pioneer mothers needed God on that great march to this land, so we need Him now. The teachers' topics are humbly dedicated to the hope that every mother will face the sunrise of 'a new day believing in herself, trusting her fellowmen, and having faith in God. COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE HE Depression has revealed, among other things, the great need in this country of some kind of security against unemployment. The unemployed must receive attention and care, and we have been giving this largely through some form of charity, which to say the least, is very embarrassing to the man who is anxious to work, and asks only for the opportunity to work. Forward-looking people have been advocating for some time the establishment in the various States of the Union, of some form of unemployment insurance for workers, to take the place of relief giving during periods of depression. A number of the larger States which have great industrial centers, have been discussing this problem for a number of years. Wisconsin now has a law in operation which is being closely watched by other States. There seems to be a great deal of opposition generally to unemployment insurance, due to the fact that it is not understood. Bills presented in twenty-five State legislatures last year failed. It is strange that people who believe in other forms of insurance are opposed to this. They believe in life insurance or insurance against RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE death, fire insurance, automobile insurance, burglar insurance, burial insurance, and in accident insurance or workmen's compensation, and in war pensions, but are opposed to unemployment insurance. The prevention of, and cure for unemployment are great economic problems which have not yet been solved. It is therefore all the more important that unemployment reserves should be set aside as a source of income for working people who are out of employment. My object in speaking on this subject today is not to advocate any definite plan for such insurance, but to discuss the principle of this form of protection, and to recommend that Relief Society women everywhere study this question for themselves. What is unemployment insurance, and who is it for? It is industrial accident insurance for physically fit people who are laid off work through no fault of their own. It is a source of income for working people out of employment. Itisasecurity wage, which should be treated as part of the worker's whole wage. Some say it would resolve itself into a dole, but this is not true. A dole is paying physically fit people funds which are raised by taxes. Voluntary insurance plans do not reach many workers, and the privately worked out schemes between employers and employees are not sufficiently safe due to the fact that industrial concerns may fail. The only safe plan is through the State itself. Where the State sponsors the scheme and manages it, it is sure to be a success. The best plan, many people think, would be one embodying the essential features of our workmen's compensation laws, the main feat- 659 ure of which is the creation of an unemployment reserve fund, held exclusively for the wage earner. The funds of the worker ought to be in hands which will continue to exist regardless of the business enterprise from which the accumulated funds are drawn. Great Britain has established a system of unemployment insurance, the fund being built up by contributions in a relatively equal amount by the employer, the employees and the Government. This is considered a very thorough and workable plan. 'The needs for unemployment insurance and old age security are apparent on every hand. When we realize that from 50% to 60% of our people are absolutely dependent at the age of 60, it would appear that steps should be taken to prevent such a condition. The result of a study by Mr. Raymond Fosdick shows the following results. Ifa group of people age 20 years each were selected from a cross section of society, in 40 years the picture would be as follows: 36 would have passed away; 54 would be absolutely dependent; 5 would be self-sustaining; 4 well-to-do; 1 would be rich. This condition alone justifies plans for unemployment insurance and old age security. Psychiatrists tell us that a large number of people have a mental age of only 12 years, and cannot plan beyond the present. These are found in all of our families. They tell us also that millions have an earning power so little above standards of decency that saving is impossible, and these are found in all of our families. Another reason why some sort of security ls necessary is because of too low wages. A recent survey in the house dress industry in Chicago gives startling figures. 660 Twenty concerns were included in the survey. In eleven of these concerns the girls and women were paid only 5 cents and less per hour for their work. In an eight-hour day they would earn 40 cents; in a week they would earn $2.40. In the other nine concerns the women were paid 15 cents and less. This accounts for the cheap house dresses which we find on the market. Who takes care of the unemployed today? The answer is, the taxpayer.. And who is the taxpayer? The taxpayer is principally the one who has general > such as farms, cattle, mines—property which is visible. It is not the man with millions in hidden assets which no one can find, and which he cannot find himself. The enormous relief bills of the last few years in the United States will surely put a mortgage on every farm and on every small business in the country, which it will take us a decade, if not a generation to remove. If unemployment is an inevitable part of our industrial system, it is a part of the cost of production and should be charged as such, and the plan for carrying its expense made a part of the regular financial planning of every enterprise. Who are the unemployed today? They are both men and women, native born and immigrants—skilled, semi-skilled, unskilled—bricklayers, helpers, carpenters, miners, painters, factory hands, type-setters, etc. Millions of them have excellent work records and are out of work through industrial operations over which they have no control. What happens when there is unemployment? First the cash savings are used up, insurance poliproperty, sheep, houses, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cies lapse, the furniture is sold, debts pile up, the family moves to poorer quarters, the mother goes to work (if she can find work), the health of the whole family is neglected, self respect crumbles. The psychological effect is bad. If a man is hungry he may later build up, but if he is discouraged too long, his faith and confidence are gone. The unemployed eligible for insurance would consist of those alone who lost their jobs through business hazards, and not through the worker's own fault. The payments he would receive would of necessity be below the average income earned while working, but would be enough to help to tide him over. Unemployment insurance is not intended to pay workers for not working. Insurance should be utilized only as one part of a completely rounded program to combat booms accompanied by over-employment, followed by depression with under-employment and unemployment. Unemployment insurance would not be a cure for unemployment. It would however offer protection against the hazards of unemployment, which workers themselves cannot foresee and cannot prevent. A number of the counties in Utah are qualifying for the establishment of old age pensions. I would recommend that Relief Society women study the law which provides for these pensions, and be prepared to assist when asked to do so in carrying out the provisions intelligently. In connection with this law we should also study the laws providing for the responsibility of relatives to their needy. Relatives are required by law to assist one another and should not shift this responsibility to the county or to the Church.