			WOMAN'S VOICE.

	For a long time I have been wishing that
the Spirit of the Lord would aid me in
writing a few lines that would harmonize
with the feelings of my sisters, and also
tend to develop my thoughts and give them
expression. I realize the more we exercise
the ability and knowledge our God has en-
dowed us with, the better we will be able
to convey our thoughts, and by seeking
unto Him in humble prayer He will enlarge
our understanding so that we may more 
clearly comprehend His work. I wish to
add my testimony to that of many others
to the divinity of this great work that we
are engaged in for the building up of the
kingdom of God on this earth. I know the
Lord has revealed His word again unto the
human family, and I know this is the true
and everlasting Gospel of Jesus, the power
of God unto salvation to all who believe
and obey. My heart is made to rejoice
while I am reading the testimony of so
many of my sisters in the EXPONENT. In
my youth I joined this Church—in the year
1833, in the State of New York. I had the
privilege of traveling with the Saints
through many scenes of affliction. I was
in Nauvoo at the time our beloved Prophet
was martyred, and have passed through
many trials; and even now, after all, though
being called to help in building up this
new country, I feel to rejoice, knowing that
if we endure to the end our reward will be
eternal lives. Is not this worth living for?
I am not weary in well-doing in the work,
but am determined, by the aid of my
Heavenly Father, to serve Him to the end
of my days, that hereafter I may enjoy the
society of the prophets and apostles and all
the glorified who have come up through
much tribulation. This is the prayer of 
your sister in Zion,
					OLIVE TENNEY.
	New Mexico, May 1, 1879.


FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE, who is now
sixty years of age, is in delicate health, al-
most entirely confined to her room. She 
resides in London, and is no doubt ill from
overwork.

	MADAME HELENA Modjeska has acquired
some celebrity of late by her pleasing ren-
dition of Camille. Modjeska is unfortunate
in being unable to speak English with a
proper accent. Aside from this she is very
charming upon the stage. We had the
pleasure of seeing her take the part of
Isabel in East Lynne last winter in Wash-
ington.


