JUAB STAKE.

	Fourth Quarterly meeting of the Juab
County Stake Organization of Relief Socie-
ty, held in the Meeting House at Nephi,
April 20. Officers of the Board present,
also Pres. John Taylor, Brothers Rockwood,
Jennings, Van Cott and Paxman. Meeting
opened by singing and prayer. Minutes of
last Conference read and accepted; also fi-
nancial report.
	Pres. Teasdale said: "Mrs. Amelia Golds-
brough has been President of the R. S. for
many years, and it would be useless to
speak of her unceasing labors; you all know
them. She is also President of the Stake,
and we feel to relieve her from the Presi-
dency of the branch, that she may be more
at liberty to attend to her other duties, vis-
iting the different societies in this Stake of
Zion. Her labors are appreciated. I move
that we sustain Mrs. Mary Pitchforth as
President of the Nephi Branch." The
motion was unanimously sustained.
	Pres. Goldsbrough made a few excellent
and appropriate remarks, expressing her
desire to aid in both temporal and spiritual
work.
	Pres. John Taylor said that he felt very
much interested in the Relief Societies;
they had exerted themselves very credita-
bly in the interests of the people, and were
great aids to the Priesthood, which they
hold, not in an independent capacity, but
associated with their husbands; as it is
said, "The man is not without the woman
nor the woman without the man in the
Lord." We are operating together in the
interests of Israel; and the Relief Societies
and the Young Men's and Young Women's
Mutual Improvement Societies have been
and are doing a great deal of good. The
Relief Societies are not new among the
Latter-day Saints. Joseph Smith organized
the first Relief Society at Nauvoo, at which
I was present. Emma Smith was chosen
President, and Sister Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney and Sister Sarah M. Cleveland as her
Counselors; Sister Eliza R. Snow was Sec-
retary, and Sister Elvira Cole, Treasurer
(as my memory serves me), and they im-
mediately commenced their labor of love
among the Saints. Soon after their organ-
ization, through persecutions and other
circumstances, resulting in the death of
the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum,
the Society suspended, until again organ-
ized by Pres. B. Young in Salt Lake City.
Let me here remark that while we appre-
ciate the labors of our sisters, it must not
be forgotten that the man holds the Priest-
hood, and is the head of the woman, as
Christ is the head of the Church. But are
they not set apart by the Priesthood to offi-
ciate in their callings? Yes. So are the
presiding officers of the Young Men's and
Young Women's Mutual Improvement As-
sociations; but setting apart and blessing
them is not ordination. This may answer
some questions that I have been asked on
this subject.
	The sisters, however, can work and do
work in their sphere as helps to the breth-
ren. They can do a great deal; they can
feed the poor, clothe the naked, instruct
the ignorant, comfort the distressed, and
even lay hands on and pray for the sick,
and do a large amount of good generally.
I consider the silk culture, in which the
sisters have engaged with such laudable
zeal, very essential; also the cultivation of
ourselves and families. And while the
brethren ought all to be gentlemenly and
courteous in their demeanor, the sisters

[Column 2]
should all act the part of ladies, be gener-
ous, kind, affable and courteous, maintain
virtue, purity and honor, and treat each
other as ladies. It would be proper also to
throw out influenees that would be refining
in their nature. We ought to teach our
daughters how to work, how to cook, adorn
our houses and make home pleasant and
desirable, that we may be elevated in our
feelings, aspirations and acts. We are only
jnst starting out now, but the time will
come when kings will come to Zion, as the
Scriptures say, to gaze on her glory. The
young men should educate themselves that
they can teach kings and queens; and our
sisters should be prepared to take their po-
sition in Zion. Our sisters are really one
with us, and when the brethren go into the
Temples to officiate for the males, the sis-
ters will go in for the females; we operate
together for the good of the whole, that we
may be united together for time and all
eternity. I am pleased to see my sisters
relieving the poor and comforting and min-
istering to the needy and unfortunate. Re-
lieve everybody of every creed that needs
assistance, especially the household of faith.
You sisters that go among the people visit-
iting, try to elevate everybody; they are
all the children of God and need your
beneficence and kindness. You can afford
to do good to all, but in doing this don't
neglect your own sisters. The Lord sends
rain upon the just and upon the unjust, and
we can afford to treat everybody right.
Shall we, in doing this, however, be one
with the profligate? No. Or with the
thief or liar? No. We are here to elevate
the human family to the standard of God;
we must not descend to their standard.
And I would say, My soul, enter not thou
into their secrets, and mine honor, with
them be not thou united;" but I would feed
and clothe them if they needed it. Again,
let me call upon you to educate your chil-
dren, teach them through proper channels.
We don't want to place our children in a
position to be taught by the heathen, and
have them dragged down to perdition. Do
you, as good Saints, fathers and mothers,
think that those who do not receive the
Gospel can go into the celestial kingdom of
God? Suppose a man and his wife should
be fortunate enough to get into the Celestial
kingdom of God, and see their offspring in
a Terrestial or Telestial state, and then, if
they had the power to do it, to hear them
say, "Father, mother, I have to blame you
for being here; it was you who put me un-
der improper influences, which caused me
to take the course I did. It is not my fault,
it is yours." For God's sake never put
yonr children in a position to be led astray.
Place them under proper influences, make
their home pleasant, have beautiful gar-
dens, and pleasant, pure and virtuous asso-
ciations.
	I am glad the sisters have a little grain
laid up, and I would advise you to plead
with your husbands to put something to the
pile.
	May the Spirit of God dwell in your
bosoms and rest upon your children and
all that pertains to you, in the name of Je-
sus. Amen.
	Bro. Rockwood said: "It is with pleasure
fhat I contemplate upon the great work that
is before you, my sisters, in clothing the
naked, feeding the hungry, &c. I have
faith in the administration of my sisters.
Your influence is felt in the world; you are
coming to the front. May God bless you.
Amen.
	Singing, "Lord dismiss us with thy bless-
ing." Benediction by W. Taylor.
	MRS. AMELIA GOLDSBROUGH, Pres't.
