MRS. SARAH J. HALE.

	Mrs. Sarah Josepha Buell Hale, one of
the oldest of American writers, died in
Philadelphia, April 30, leaving as her me-
morial a mass of writings covering a period
of nearly sixty years, and which every-
where show painstaking industry and a su-
perior literary capacity. She was born in
Newport, N. H., in 1789. She married
David Hale, a lawyer, retaining, however,
her maiden name of Buell after assuming
that of her husband. Mr. Hale died in
1822, and his widow began her literary life
a year later, a book of poems, "The Genius
of Oblivion," Concord, 1823, being her first
venture. "Northwood," a novel in two
volumes, appeared in 1827, and in 1828 she
became editor of the "Ladies Magazine,"
published in Boston. In 1837 this periodi-
cal was united with "Godey's Lady's Book,"
a Philadelphia magazine of the old school,
and Mrs. Hale was its editor until 1877.
Her name has been most widely known in
connection with the "Lady's Book," but
her pen was busy with other subjects than
these growing out of her editorial duties.
She wrote, first and last, more than twenty
books, mostly of that peculiar type that one
associates with the round table, with its
red and black spread, the high-posted bed-
stead, the wooden mantel, with its gilt
china ornaments, and the white muslin cur-
tain of the "spare room" in the low farm-
house where, perchance, one has passed a
few careless vacation days. American wo-
men have written a whole library full of
this kind of literature. They were the
books that mothers gave their sons and
daughters as birthday presents thirty years
ago, bound commonly in full morocco, with
sides and backs gilt in arabesque patterns,
but sometimes in simple muslin, with the
same ornaments, and in silken cases, with
gilt edges. Such titles as "Flora's Inter-
preter," "The Ladies' Wreath," and "The
Poet's Offering," some of Mrs. Hale's best
known books, will suggest the whole class.
"Woman's Record, or Sketches of Distin-
guished women," is a very useful manual,
and takes its place with the best books of
reference. This is the work by which she
will be longest remembered, and perhaps
the only one that will hand her name down
to future ages. Her remains rest at Laurel
Hill.—Woman's Words.


MISS CLARA Louise Kellogg has been en-
gaged to appear with the Mapleson troupe
in the coming London season.


