NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS ANNA E. Dickenson has decided
not to visit California until autumn.

	MADAME ELIZABETH Bonaparte died in
Baltimore, Md., on the 4th of April last,
aged ninety-four years. She was the wife
of Jerome Bonaparte, brother of Napoleon;
her maiden name was Patterson.

	VICTOR HUGO is now seventy-eight years
old and is in robust health. A few of his
oldtime friends invited him to a dinner on
his birthday, served in the "Cafe Riche" in
Paris. "He spoke with his usual vigor and
point."

	MRS. C. M. Williams has been elected
President of the State National Bank at
Raleigh, N. C., in place of her husband,
now deceased. She is said to be the first
woman who ever held that office in the
United States.

	ABOUT A hundred and fifty names, most
of them belonging to what are called
"strong-minded ladies," are appended to
the preliminary prospectus to the "Political
Club for Women," which, I hear, is mak-
ing fair way. The project was inaugurated
at the close of last year, and the intention
is to open the club in a central situation as
soon as a thousand members shall have
been elected. There is no entrance fee,
and the subscription is only five shillings a
year, as it is desired to comprise all sorts
and conditions of women. It is calculated
that it will not be safe to open until an in-
come of £250 is guaranteed for current ex-
penses. I fancy there will be no difficulty
in finding the proper number of clubable
ladies in a political as well as in a social
sense; and social clubs for ladies are spring-
ing up all around like mushrooms.—From
an English paper.

	THE QUEEN IN ITALY.—A Turin journal
states that the Queen has already derived
benefit from her sojourn in Italy. On the
1st of April she took advantage of a lovely
morning to walk for a long distance along
the shore of the lake, accompanied by the
Princess Beatrice, and unattended. She
was dressed in the most simple manner, in
lusterless black barege, walked very rapid-
ly, and from time to time stopped to admire
a fine view. Before the Queen returned to
her temporary home, she visited the Villa
Durozzo, where a part of her suite is lodged
and inspected the rooms she had hired
there. Then taking the path to the left
she decended again to the shore of the lake.
Perceiving some washerwomen at work,
she sat down on a stone near them and in
excellent Italian conversed for some time
with them. The Queen and Princess were
taken for ordinary tourists. Her Majesty
was charmed at the error. On her way to
the Villa Clara she visited the stables. The
coachman, an Englishman, in charge of
them was so embarrassod at finding himself
in the Royal presence that he was not able
to reply to the Queen, who, taking him for
a Lombard, spoke to him in Italian. The
Italian Governmeut have organised at
Raveno a special telegraphic service to
place the Queen in intimate communica-
tion with Germany and England.


