IN MEMORIAM.

	Sister Diantha Morley Billings departed this
life at Provo on the evening of May 14, at fifteen
minutes to ten o'clock. She was familiarly
known as "Mother Billings," and was truly a
mother in Israel, beloved and respected by all.
She was amiable, gentle, tender, truly benevo-
lent, and her kindness and deeds of mercy ex-
tended to the stranger, as well as the friend or
neighbor.
	She was bo n August 23, 1795, at Montague,
Mass. In the year 1815 she, with her relatives,
moved to Kirtland, and there was married to
Titus Billing[-], with whom she passed her mar-
ried life mo[-]t happily. Patriarch Isaac Morley
(now deceas[-]d), her husband and herself were
among the first bapt[-]zed in Kirtland. It was
at the house of her brother, Isaac Morley, that
the Cambellite meetings were held previous to
the advent of the true faith, which took away
so many of its disciples. She was an intimate
friend of the Prophet Joseph Smith and also of
President Brigham Young, President Heber C.
Kimball, Bishop N K. Whitney and of the
families of these brethren. Bro. and Sister


Billings were among the first Saints who re-
moved to Missouri, whence they were driven
and plundered of all their worldly possessions
by the mobs that arose in that State against
the Saints.  Her husband was in Crooked
River battle and stood beside Apostle David
H. Patten when he fell.  Sister Billings moved
to Nauvoo about the same time as the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and while there was blessed
and set apart to administer to the sick and act
in the capacity of nurse, in which calling she
has been skillful and reliable, until her health
rendered it impossible for her to act the part of
an accoucher longer.  She with her husband
and family emigrated to Utah in 1848, and were
soon after called upon to go and help build up
settlementsin Sanpete County  They returned
to Provo in 1864, and in 1866 Bro. Billings died.
Sister Billings has been a widow for thirteen
years.  Her life has been a most exemplary
one and worthy of imitation.  Her name will
ever be held in honorable remembrance, and
she will be esteemed as a woman of God.


