RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
WEBER STAKE OF ZION.
	Quarterly conference was held Friday
and Saturday, May 9 and 10, in the Taber-
nacle in Ogden City.  On the stand were
Pres. Jane S. Richards, Counselor Hattie C.
Brown, and Secretary Amella M. Frodsham,
of the Stake Relief Society organization;
local brethren, Apostle F. D. Richards,
Pres D. H. Peery, Coun. L. J. Herrick,
some Bishops and Elder David M. Stuart;
ladies from Salt Lake City, Pres. E. R.
Snow, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, Mrs. S. M.
Kimball, Mrs. E. B. Wells; also several
presidents of Relief Societies of Weber
Stake.  The Conference opened with sing-
ing and prayer, as is usual.  Pres. J. S.
Richards arose and made a few remarks,
alluded to the illness of the Secretary and
offered an apology for her being seated
while reading the minutes and the reports
of the several branches.  On nomination of
Pres. E. R. Snow, Mrs. E. B. Wells was
appointed Secretary pro tem.  Minutes of
last Conference were read and accepted;
statistical and financial reports from each
ward in the city and the various towns in
the county were also read, showing the good
condition and prosperity of each of these
branch societies, and commendatory of the
sister’s labors temporally and spiritually.
After the business of the morning session
had been concluded, Mrs. E. B. Wells ad-
dressed the assembly; among other things
casually mentioned, she alluded to the op-
portunities afforded to women now, as com-
pared with the past, the advantages to be
derived from the increased facilities open
to women's progression in the various ave-
nues of life; rejoiced that women had the
privilege of speaking in public for each
other's mutual benefit and enlightenment;
also in the privilege of the ballot which
had been given to Mormon women, and the
obligations and responsibilities attending
the use of it, and that it was necessary wo-
men as a class become intelligent upon these
subjects and understand their true position.
Pres. D. H. Peery made a few remarks;
urged the people to come to the meetings
to hear the sisters talk; he had great faith
in woman’s ability to do good, believed in 
the powerful influence of the mother, in
her teachings to the little ones, knew from
experience that it was remembered and was
a sort of talisman through life.  He spoke
of the great work accomplished by Sister
Eliza R. Snow; said probably there were
few men in this Church who had done as
great a work.  He entreated the brethren
to assist the sisters in building a granary in
Ogden to store the wheat in that the sisters
had gathered, and felt it was a mistake in
the brethren not saving more wheat.  He
had more confidence in the integrity of
women than men, and of all men on the
earth he realized the truth of what he said,
for to the good teaching of his mother and
the spiritual influence of his wife he as-
cribed the credit of being a man of God.
He talked of the co-operative manufactories
they were trying to establish to strengthen
the people and help them to become self-
sustaining.
Afternoon session:  A much larger con-
gregation assembled in the afternoon, and
after usual exercises of singing and prayer,
and the reading of a few other reports
omitted in the morning, Pres. E. R. Snow
addressed the people.  She expressed her
gratitude to God for the organization of Re-
lief Societies; she had been connected with 
the firs[-] organization by the Prophet Joseph
in Nauvoo on the 26th of March, 1842, and
remembered he said that it should become
a great power and have great influence, and
it had extended not only throughout Zion,
but into Great Britain.  She realized that if
the sisters honored their calling as daugh-
ters of the Most High God, all would be
fulfilled that had been promised.  She said
it was easy to profess to be a Saint, but not
so easy to live up to every principle; this
required firmness and integrity to principle.
Her heart ached for some who had been
obedient, but were now using all their in-
fluence to destroy; they could only be com-
pared to blind people in the midst of light.
It was necessary for Saints to set their faces
as flint against any indication of evil pow-
ers, or influences.  The Saints are asleep,
but Satan is on the alert, and he seeks to
decoy the innocent.  We should have no
individual interests, we should realize we
are the daughters of God, bought with the
blood of His Son; if we would reflect upon
these things we should do our duty with
all our souls.  Never shrink from a duty,
be it ever so trifling; this will refer to
young and old; it will apply to me.  There
are many duties which require to be per-
formed co-operatively; we can do these
things if we have the Spirit of God with
us, the Holy Ghost, and does any one need
better company?  If we have this there is
no danger of hatred or jealousies, it is long-
suffering, gentleness, patience, meekness,
it will make us powerful helpmeets: some
are, but are all?  In the world some mo-
nopolize to the injury of others, but we
want to come together, consult together and
accomplish great purposes for the good of
all. Miss Snow also made some remarks
upon storing grain, building granaries, the
manufacture of straw, the making of artifi-
cial flowers, and the home interests gener-
ally in Ogden, giving the sisters there, with
Sister Jane S. Richards, as prime leader,
great credit for their energy and persever-
ance in that direction.  There were many
other excellent sentiments advanced.
Mrs. Frodsham said it was by the power
of faith she had come to the meeting; she
wanted to attend to hear the instructions
and meet the sisters from Salt Lake City,
she hoped to be able to attend on the mor-
row; she felt the people were blessed.
Mrs. S.  Kimball related, some inter-
esting episodes of her life, told the story of 
teaching school in her own sitting room,
and how at a certain time she said to her
husband, “If you and the little boys will
go to to the cañon and get some timber we
can build a schoolroom;" and how by a
great deal of faith and exertion on her part
and diligent labor by the husband and 
sons it was accomplished.  She had the
honor, too, of making the first move in
building Relief Society edifices, and told
her experience in getting it finished; since
then they had put an addition to the House
and built a granary,  fire-proof building
with tin roof, cost $500.  She said we are
all surrounded by influences and circum-
stances, and out of them we each of us
work out our own individuality.  She felt
there was a great future opening up before
the young women of to-day, for which the
elder sisters had laid the foundation.
Pres. Jane S. Richards made  few clos-
ing remarks, and showed some home made
gingham, spun, colored and woven by a sis-
ter in Huntsville from cotton raised in the
southern part of the Territory; also a piece
of linen goods and linen thread, the flax
having been grown in Huntsville and
manufactured there.  Conference adjourned
until Saturday morning, May 10. Singing
and benediction.
 Saturday morning session:  The officers of
R. S. Stake were upon the stand, Apostle
F. D. Richards and other brethren.  After
opening ceremonies, D. H. Graves, who
travels almost constantly in the interest of 
sericultnre, made some remarks on that
subject, and stated that last year France
had exported sixteen car-loads of silk-worm
eggs.  He was trying to open up a market
abroad for silk raised here, which would be
genuine, much imported silk was mixed
with cotton and other materials.
The reports of the Y. L. M. I. A. were
then read by Mrs. Frodsham.
Pres. E. R. Snow expressed her pleasure
in hearing the reports; advised the young
ladies to cultivate humility, discard pride
and vanity, and fit themselves to be wise
counselors to good men and mothers of no-
ble children.  Do not associate with men
who will not honor God and his holy ordi-
nances.  It is important that marriages
should be consummated in holy places, and
then the covenants will be recorded in
heaven and the family relations will be
eternal.  She then gave good advice in re-
gard to the reading and studies of the
young; said it is good to treasure up some
truth every day.  Our minds can be em-
ployed when our hands are employed.  We
need not lumber the chambers of the mind
with rubbish.  She reminded the young
ladies of the great advantages they enjoyed;
said the more good they could do the more
their faculties would become developed.
Politeness is always comely; cultivate it in
your everyday deportment.  Seek unto
God for wisdom.
 Apostle F. D. Richards said he felt inter-
ested in the movements and teachings of
the sisters.  We are all fond of variety in
every department of life, but we should
try to be content with that which was for
our best good.  Our richest knowledge is
the knowledge of Christ, the Savior of the
world. We ought to love and appreciate
Sister Snow and those sisters who labor in
this school of the Gospel; all ought to take
an interest in this work for the young,
Bishops as well as parents.  It is good for
a child, to learn of the restoration of the
Gospel. The Holy Ghost is essential to the
proper training of children.  Children
started out in the right direction will be-
come excellent and praiseworthy.  Young
ladies should pray that they might have
righteous husbands and children of the
royal line; such are the noble of the earth.
In this age a righteous race is to be reared.
Sister Snow has desired the knowledge of 
God and cultivated sacred principles, but
in some there is no love of the truth.  Meet-
ing adjourned after singing and prayer.
Afternoon session: Pres. Mrs, Richards
absent on account of illness.  Apostle F.
D. Richards, Pres. Eliza R. Snow, Pres.
Sarah M. Kimball and many others on the
stand. After singing and prayer, Pres. E.
R. Snow addressed some remarks to the
children and called for the reports of the
Primary Associations, which were read.
She also asked the children some questions
and gave some instructions.  Questions
and remarks by Sister S. M. Kimball.
Children sang, “Our lovely Deseret” and
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Children's voices on this occasion were in-
deed sweet.  Apostle Richards then offered
a prayer for the children before their being
dismissed, to which they all responded,
Amen.
 Pres, J. S. Richards then came on the
stand, feeling better.  Sister Maycock made
some excellent remarks in regard to the 
children and the Primary Associations. 
Sister E. R. Snow said there are always 
incidental expenses attending every organ-


ization for the interest of the societies in
different wards and settlements. Mrs.
Eliza Melissa Hall was elected Treasurer
for the R. S. Stake. Mrs. Mary Kay Pres.
Silk Association, Mrs. Letitia Peery and
Mrs. Elizabeth Stanford Counselors. All
the officers and members of Relief Society
and Y. L. M. I. A. were elected members
of the Silk Association: Agents were
chosen for all the different localities in the
county, to see that the mulberry leaves were
utilized; and the sisters were urged by
Sister Snow to be energetic in promoting
the interests of silk culture. Mary Ellen
Kay was elected Secretary, and Ellen Morse
Treasurer, Weber Co. Silk Association.
	The next business in order was the or-
ganization for Y. L. M. I. Association for
the County. The officers elected were
Mrs. Sarah Herrick, President; Mrs. Emily
Richards and Mrs. Josephine R. West,
Counselors; Miss Hattie Brown, Secretary;
and Miss Rosetta Canfield, Treasurer.
	Pres. J. S. Richards made a few remarks
upon position and responsibility, the work
it involved and the imposslbility of giving
satisfaction to all; remaked that in her
transaction of Relief Society affairs at large,
she relied upon Sister E. R. Snow. Those
who preside are public servants of the peo-
ple.
	The names of the officers of R. S. of
Weber Stake were then brought before the
people to be voted upon. Miss Eliza R.
Snow was sustained as General President,
Mrs. Jane S. Richards was sustained as
Pres. R. S. Weber Stake, Mrs. H. C. Brown
and Mrs. S. A. Herrick, Counselors; Mrs.
A. M. Frodsham, Secretary. Sister Snow
exhorted the young ladies to respect their
organizations and go to their presiding offi-
cers for counsel. Elder McQuary and Bro.
Shurtliff each made good remarks, express-
ing their satisfaction and appreciation of
the labors of the sisters, and said the Con-
ference had been a good one for all who at-
tended. Conference was adjourned for
three months. Singing and benediction.


