A NEIGHBOR.

	Written on the occasion of a Juvenile Concert for a
poor widow's benefit, and gratefully dedicated to all par-
ties, Jew or Gentile, that assisted therein.

'One touch of nature makes the whole world kin;'
Sorrow's a key all sympathies to win.
The privilege to give to all extend.
E'en as the dews of heaven on all descend;
Of those who much possess much is required,
If blessing in proportion is desired;
If small our means, if large our will and love,
Much will be credited to us above;
"The widow's mite," a gift exceeding small,
Exceeded others, "for she gave her all."
When little ones as volunteers enlist
The poor and helpless kindly to assist,
Ah! who shall say 'tis not a pleasant sight,
Or check their efforts in the cause of right?
Who aids the weary, succors the distressed,
The smile of heaven alike shall on him rest;
He shall be recompensed, whate'er his creed,
That helps another in his time of need.

Ages ago was information sought
From One who everywhere compassion taught—
Who is my neighbor? Who, that I should love
E'en as myself, or as the Lord above?

By Christ Himself, to suit the simplest mind,
Past controversy, neighbor was defined.—
"A certain man, his name it matters not,
Fell among thieves: such was his hapless lot
The desperadoes took his all and fled,
Leaving him bruised and bleeding, nearly dead.
While thus he lay, all wounded, senseless, sore,
A priest went by and calmly viewed him o'er,
Deigned not to help—so great his priestly pride,
So small his soul, he passed the other side.
A certain Levite also passed the place,—
One of a called and chosen priestly race—
He saw the man, but with averted sight
Soothed thus his conscience, that it served him right.
One of Samaria's sons next passed along;
He saw and pitied, knowing right from wrong.
With oil he soothed the poor wounds, and did cheer
With wine his spirits, faint from pain and fear.
On his own beast did set him, took him to
A neighboring inn, and something more did do:
He called the host, and as his bill he paid—
'Tend well for me this wounded man,' he said;
Soon as I come again, believe me, sir,
I'll pay whate'er expense he may incur."

Now," said the Savior, "tell me if you can,
Who was a neighbor to this wounded man?"

Ah, what a parable was this to choose—
A sermon full of meaning to the Jews;
Full well Christ knew their over-righteous zeal,
That with Samaritans they did not deal;
Full well he knew they did not deem them meet
To wipe the dust from off their sacred feet;
A double purpose, thus, his words supp[-]ied—
To show man's duty and reprove man's pride.

Oh, 'tis a lesson sacred and sublime,
And always will be to the end of time.
'Gainst cool indifference to another's fate,
'Gainst bigotry, that meanest kind of hate,
That makes men monsters, foolish, vain, unjust.
Unworthy even of the smallest trust.
For wh[-]t foul wrongs must bigotry atone!
Since Daniel in "the lion's den" was thrown;
Since Christ was crucified; and now,
*Because another Daniel made a vow
Unto his God, he must that vow betray,
Or in a prison cell the forfeit pay.
Justice and prejudice are not allied,
They cannot live logether side by side;
Whene'er in chnrch or court a bigot reigns
Justice expires, or but exists in chains;
For bigotry is so profoundly blind,
Outside itself it nothing good can find;
Integrity as well might hide its face,
For bigotry ne'er sees a single grace;
Sweet mercy, sorrowing, folds her pinions there,
Where virtue fails how can she but despair
O bigotry! when this fair earth is freed
From thy control, man will be blest indeed;
So quickly germinates thy baneful root,
That soon the persecuted persecute;
Wrong feeds on wrong, and hate of every kind

[Column 2]
With rapid growth o'erruns the narrow mind;
Alas! 'tis not confined to any place,
To any special nation, age or race,
To check its growth; we all of us have need,
To check its growth; let all of us take heed,
Lest through our prejudice we fail to be
Neighbors to all that need our sympathy.

The Gospel Founder, truth personified,
Huried all His wrath at sanctimonious pride;
His kindest language always was addressed
To cheer the humble, or the most distressed.
Blest with the wisest, purest, loftiest mind,
His love extended unto all mankind.
A moral standard was by Christ unfurled,
Noble and broad enough to bless the world.
"Do unto all as ye would have them do,
Give unto every man the honor due;
Do good to all men, whosoe'er they be,
As ye have means and opportunity;
Give unto those who make you no return,
Give when the rcompense you can discern;
The measure that you mete shall be to you
Measured again, and running over, too."
Do good to them that hate us—if we can,
Like Him we shall be something more than man,
Few love their foes, few ask ther Father to
Forgive their enemies the wrong they do:
Ah! if we could this Godlike standard reach,
Could we but practice what these precepts teach,
Whate'er our faith, we surely would agree
In all that claims our common sympathy.
He is a neighbor, whatsoe'er his creed.
Who helps another in his time of need.

