HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE PRESENT number commences Volume
Eight of WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Through its
agency Latter-day Saint women have become
better known to the world and have obtained
some prestige through this channel in ex-
pressing their ideas and reporting their
labors for each other's elevation and
improvement. We hope the increased
subscription list for the present year may prove
that the ladies appreciate the little paper as an
educator among the Saints, and also the good
missionary work it does at home and abroad.

	WE REGRET that the young people of Ogden
have given up publishing "The Amateur;" that
a journal in the interest of the Mutual Im-
provement Associations is needed must be ap-
parent to all who consider the subject. "The
Amateur" has done good work in its field of
labor, and its pages have always been filled
with expressions of true principles and pure
sentiments, and of this class of reading there
is a lack in the world. We are sorry to have
"The Amateur" suspended.

	THE BOOK of Abraham, by Elder George
Reynolds, is indeed a great acquisition to the
home literature of the Saints. It is not a crude,
unfinished work thrown together hastily, but
all who read its pages will understand it is
compiled with thought and carefnl attention
to facts, and is an embodiment of a series of
historical facts that possess a significance to the
Latter-day Saints. We commend it to all as
a work of genuine merit. The book is for sale
at the office of the Deseret News; it can also
be obtained here.

	WE WOULD respectfully solicit the Secreta-
ries of the Y. L. M. I. A. in the various organ-
izations everywhere to send word to the editor
of WOMAN'S EXPONENT if they edit a paper in
their Society; and if so the name of the paper
and how long it has been edited, how often it
is issued, the character of its articles, and who
are the editors and regular contributors. We
should be glad to publish these items in our
paper, and to ascertain what exertions are be-
ing made among the young ladies connected
with these societies to improve themselves in
writing.

	ON FRIDAY May 16th the Primary Associa-
tion of the 16th ward, met at Sister E. Ma-
thews apartments to practise singing etc. The
children had been told previously by their
president that the 16th of May would be the 
80th anniversa[-]y of Sister Ann Trump's birth-
day. Fifty children come forward and pre-
sented this mother in Israel their bouquets of
flowers, then one little girl presented to her a
card flower reciever with a few lines of poetry
written and the inscription. ON THY 80TH
BIRTHDAY.
	*		*		*		*		*
	The children sang and recited some beauti-
ful pieces; they seemed really inspired by a
divine power. While looking at, and listen-
ing to the children many delightful passages
ran through my mind such as "In as much as
ye did it unto the least of these my servents
ye did it unto me" etc. Before the children
were dismissed the aged mother passed re-
freshments to all present. There were several
spectators present, who felt to say God bless
the children and God bless the parents and
all who encourage the children in doing good.
								M. J. T.


SHONESBERG, April 9, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We are a small settlement, numbering fifteen
members in our Relief Society. We wish to
be remembered with the rest of our sisters; we


are trying to do the best we can in the great
work of the latter days. We were organized
Feb. 10, 1878, with Harriet S. Millett, President,
Emily Demill and Mary Alred, Counselors,
N. B. Riggs, Secretary.
	We have a Y. L. M. I. A. here in good con-
dition; they hold their meetings semi-monthly.
We have had some sickness and death among
our children, which we feel deeply to regret,
but must acknowledge the hand of the Lord in
all things.
	Your sisters in the covenant of the everlast-
ing Gospel,
				HARRIET S. MILLETT, Pres.
