SELF-IMPROVEMENT.
	There are many opportunities for improve-
ment that are passed by without thought, and
it is very frequently remarked by young peo-
ple (and we might say elder ones), I would
like to improve myself, but I’ve no chance,”
when chances and opportunities are being
thrown away all the time.  There are young
men and young women who are doing nothing
in particular, because they cannot find that
which is sufficiently remunerative.  And even
men who hold responsible positions, heads of
families, husbands and fathers, spend their
time not unfrequently in idleness, because
there ls no work for them to do that suits them
in this “work-a-day world.” And these same
men, some of them, debate upon the corners
of the streets about women usurping rights and
so forth.  The Scriptures say the man “who
does not provide for hisown house has denied the
faith and is worse than an infidel.” Of course
women who are left to take care of themselves,
and there are thousands in the world, have to
earn an independent living for themselves, and
sometimes for their families; such need some
preparation beforehand for the active pursuits
of life.  And who can tell what may be the
circumstances of the future?  The mother who
sends her daughter forth without some thor-
ough preparation that she can rely upon in an
extremity, does her an injustice, as we view
the matter.
	It is often remarked that every boy should
learn a trade, whatever his circumstances may
be as regards property, and we believe that is
right; but it has usually been the confirmed
custom of the times in the past that a girl's
fortune is to marry.  It is the opinion of many
people that if girls are trained in a spirit of
financial independence they would not be be
likely to marry, because they could support
themselves.  In New England, where girls are
trained in more industrious habits than in al-
most any other part of the world, there are to
be sure a very large percentage of old maids,
but it is not because of their energy, or indus-
try, or independence, but from other causes
well-known, but which we have not space
now to explain.
	Girls are not suitable for married life unless
they are energetic and industrious, and they
should be well informed on all general subjects:
and much of this they can do themselves, if 
they will.
 Girls, do not indulge in idleness! how often
we have heard the exclamation: “I’m not go-
ing to work, I’m going to have a good time;
drudges are not appreciated,” We are quite
willing to admit there is some drudgery con-
nected with a woman’s life.  But what about
yourselves, girls?  What will you find to ap-
preciate in your own conscience, if your life is
spent in frivolities and in trying to make your
path easy.  Perhaps the Great Creator has en-
dowed you with beauty, with a perfection of
face which is always more or less charming,
but too frequently these charms pall when the
real life of the individual is not consistent with
the fascinating exterior.
	This is an age of progression marked by
many new and fresh inventions and innova-
tions, in consequence of which changes are
taking place that are calling forth from the
minds of individuals advanced thoughts upon
subjects that were heretofore almost ignored,
so strong seemed to be the chain that bound
the opinions and customs of the past.  But
this is an e ra when woman must accept her
true position, and it is one of active work, and
it is needful she should prepare herself: do not
think you are to occupy positions, unless you
fit yourself for them, if you do you will de-
ceive yourself.  Put a limit to your desires,
the wisdom of life is acquired little by little,
by patient application and a strong devotion to
the best interests.  We know that it has been
considered by some that girls are toodelicate and
fragile, and many are reared by their parents
so tenderly that they are almost unfitted for
the actual experiences of womanhood. “Well,”
says, one, “so many women are physically in-
disposed for the arduous duties and labors that
seem to be their lot in life, and can take no ac-
tive part in the duties of their own household.”
Why is this?  Do they not early in life violate
many of the laws of health, and do not moth-
ers and fathers look upon it almost indifferent-
ly until it is too late.  Tight-fitting clothes,
shoes and gloves; too much dancing; wearing
thin dresses to evening parties, and coming
home without sufficient wrappings; these and
many other neglects that are overlooked at the
time, but become serious matters when the
health is wholly undermined.
	A temperate manner of life, with plenty of
outdoor exercise, and suitable clothing, a mod-
eration in the pursuits, or avocations, engaged
in, will in most cases secure health to those
who have not some inherent weakness which
baffles all skill.  Health is almost a necessity
to success in any enterprise.  It is possible to
improve in observing the laws of health,
and this will help one to attain other de-
sirable gifts and acquirements more readily.
	Our advice to young ladies is, qualify your-
selves for some noble purpose in life. “Well,
supposing I should get married?"  So much
the better for you and your husband and espec-
ially your children, for of all the positions
woman is called to occupy, the one that needs
the most careful preparation, the hsghest en-
dowment, is that of being a mother.  There is
not a positive necessity of certain conditions in
life to make you what you may aspire to be;
you can cultivate yourself under almost any
circumstances, if you have the will and deter-
mination.  Those who have been the most cele-
brated in literature, in science and in art, and
those who have acquired most wealth have
begun by cultivating themselves; and have
risen by degrees to the rank they occupy.
	In all that relates to life much is expected of
woman, therefore her need of cultivation is
great, and it should be not only in the graces
and embellishments that beautify and adorn,
but in the sound and profound truths by which
the greatest problems are solved.  If woman
gives to home the tone that attracts the hearts
of all the household, if woman gives to society
its character, should not the mothers of the
race have every avenue open to them possible,
that they might dedicate themselves to a life
of self-improvement?
	E. B. Wells


