IN MEMORY OF:

	Died, March 20. 1879. at Oak Creek, Millard
Co. Utah, of dropsy Carlie E. Lyman Callis-
ter, beloved daughter of Amasa M. and Eliza
M. Lyman in the 28th year of her age. She
leaves a baby 12 days old, and numerous
friends to mourn her loss. The deceased was
born August 1, 1851, in Salt Lake City, and
was highly esteemed for her many estimable
qualities of heart and soul. She was exem-
plary in her daily life, and in principle a true
Latter day Saint, always ready to do every-
thing to aid and assist in the work of the king-
dom of God. Though her friends will miss
her congenial society, they can have no cause
to regret, for she has go[-]e where sin and suf-
feri[-]g can never enter, and with S[-]ster Carlie
"All is well." We extend our sympa[-]hies to
the mother and b[-]r[-]aved family, but for her
who has gone "Pe[-]ce and Joy. and the rest
that remaineth for the faithful."


﻿[For the Exponent.
		ERROR vs TRUTH.
	If I felt competent to write anything like
my more gifted sisters, I would often take my
pen to help fill up the pages of our valuable
paper, the WOMAN'S EXPONENT--the name it-
self is significant of all good.  Why can we
not as women proclaim against injustice,
clamor for redress, earnestly contend for our
rights, so long denied to womankind; sound
aloud to the world that now is woman's' era,
the time when she is beginning to comprehend
her true position side by side with man, her
brother, companion and friend, not master.
That she is a helpmeet, to help on the work of
redemption. The Lord our God has revealed
these things through our worthy brother and
prophet of the 19th century, Joseph Smith.
Then shall we fear man or woman whatsoever
they shall strive to do against this kingdom?
No, verily no!  They little know with whom
they are contending, the Lord God Almighty,
or methinks they would hide their heads for
very shame.  Can they not see the Lord is
working with the nations? What turmoils,
trouble and distress do we read of in every
quarter of the globe!
	God has said through the mouth of his ser-
vant, the prophet, that be would make the
wrath of man to praise Him, the rest He will
restrain; and thus we find it the case in every
instance.
 Our so called Christian ladies meeting to-
gether to conduct measures to combat Celestial
Marriage? E en those who sit in darkness and
the shadow of death, marvel when they read,
and become more anxious to find out the why
and wherefore of the case which has become
the theme of so much di[-]cussion, and search
to understand the matter more thoroughly,
and then truth comes to the surface and many
honest in heart will learn the paths of peace,
and walk therein. I rejoice when I read my
paper, that we have be many noble, honest,
good women in our midst, who will beard the
lion in his den for truth and righteousness sake,
and I feel to say, God bless you, my sisters;
keep on in the good work, sound the trumpet
to the ends of the ear, that God rules in
Zion, we will obey his behests, help fight her
battles, for be it known error is inferior to her
sister truth, and consequently must bend and
do her homage, for it is God's decree, whether
it is error in marriage covenants or in any
principle which relates to our eternal happi-
ness.  Truth must eventually be the victor.
MARIE.
Richmond, May 1, 1879.


MISS JULIA E. Smith, the last of the fa-
mous Smith sisters of Glastonbury Conn.
was united in marriage to A. A. Parker Esq.
of Vermont April 9, 1879. They are both
over eighty years of age. There was a
grand reception arranged for them, and
presents, music, dancing and toasts formed
a part of the entertainment. A pyramid
bride's loaf-cake, was prepared by their
friends elegantly ornamented, the peak of
the pyramid artistically finished with a
bouquet of frosting, the very top of the
cluster having two faces made of frosting to
represent the bride and groom. On one
side in gilt lettering A. A. Parker Esq. and
Julia E. Smith married April 9, 1879. On
the other side:

	"Good wishes and joy to the new-married pair
	Miss Julia the brave and A. Parker Esquire.


A LADY joking about her nose said: I
had nothing to do in shaping it. It was a
birthday present.—Ex.


