CONCLUDED.

	Let me show you one good that has come
to woman through her ballot in Wyoming.
The payment of men and women teachers
has been adjusted upon the basis of the
same pay for the same qualifications, and
been thus equalized by direct statute for
political power always benefits the parties
holding it. In reading ancient history we
find political power shown by one person,
re-acting upon a whole class. For instance,
the ancient Roman women worshiped the
goddess Viriplaca, whose special mission
was to appease husbands; but after Volum-
nia had shown power to stop the conquer-
ing march of her son Coriolanus, at the very
gates of Rome, the whole sex were treated
with more consideration, and a temple was
erected to Woman's Fortune.
	Milman calls attention to the disrespect
with which Greek women were treated,
because of their total want of political
power, their "political insignificance."
	Now we women of the states know that
the women of the Territories of Wyoming
and Utah are not secure in their political
rights, because the women of the nation
have no political rights. Scarcely a session
of Congress but some political busy-body
introduces into that body a bill to disfran-
chise the women of these territories. We
are tired of it! we are tired of so much at-
tention being paid to the wrongs of men

[Column 2]
and so little to the wrongs of women.
When such a speech as that of Mr. Blaine
is made, we wonder where political consis-
tency has flown.
	Then there was another point of Mr.
Blaine's speech that was bitter to the think-
ing women of the nation. That is, his
pointing out the fact that members of the
House hold their office in defiance of the
rights of representation.
	We know and feel that every Representa-
tive and every Senator, the Hon. Mr. Blaine
himself not excluded, hold their seats in
defiance of woman's rights of representa-
tion. Women have been counted in the
basis of representation, and are not allowed
to exercise political power.
	Mr. Blaine, in his argument, quoted that
portion of the 14th Amendment which
says, "Representatives shall be apportioned
among the several states, &c., &c., but when
the right to vote, &c., is denied to any of 
the 'male' inhabitants, &c.
	Mr. Blaine declared the patent undenia-
ble intent of this provision was, that if any
class of voters were denied, or in any way
abridged their right of suffrage, the class
so denied or abridged should not be counted
in the basis of representation.
	The women of the nation notice this an-
nulling provision, because through it they
are cunningly made to count in the basis of
representation.
	It is an underlying principle of true
statesmanship that constitutions should be
general in their character, securing in a 
general way the rights of all members of 
the nation. But the women of the nation
are indebted to the Republican party for a 
principle in opposition to general rights, by
the introduction of the word "male" three
times in the constitution.
	I shall make use of Mr. Blaine's very lan-
guage, and say that "wherever a feeble pro-
test is made against this injustice," to one-
half the people the taunt comes, "What are
you going to do about it?" and "how do
you propose to help yourselves?"
	As Mr. Evarts so graphically said in the
great Tilton-Beecher trial, "man holds wo-
man in the hollow of his hand to protect or
to crush," so the great political parties seem
to say to the women of the nation, "We
hold your rights in our grasp; we can pro-
tect you or crush you. What are you going
to do about it? and how do you propose to
help yourselves?"
	That they hold power we acknowledge—
that they hold it rightfully we deny.
	Let us look at a few other ways in which
the United States has touched the rights of
women where protection has been secured
her by legislation outside of itself. One in-
stance that has come to my knowledge
since I have been in your city, is in the
case of pensions for colored women. The
United States not only secured the ballot to
the black male citizen outside of state
authority, but it has touched the family re-
lation with its powerful hand. It has as-
sumed that the woman with whom a col-
ored soldier was living at the time of his
death was his wife, notwithstanding he
may have lived for many years in recog-
nized married relations with another wo-
man, and become the father of children by
her during this period. In one case com-
ing under the cognizance of our Washing-
ton woman lawyer, Mrs. Lockwood, a pen-
sion was by United States authority thus
granted to a woman living with such col-
ored soldier at time of his death, although
she had no other claim upon it. This sol-
dier had, during the period of slavery, been
married in his master's house by a regular-
ly ordained clergyman to another woman,

[Column 3]
and by that wife had become the father of 
five or six children. This woman was his
lawful widow, according to state and re-
ligious law. These children were his law-
ful children, according to state and religi-
ous law, but the United States stepped in,
and made of this married woman a thing I 
will not name, and cast her children into
the world with the brand of illegitimacy.
	What a strange thing is law! what a
strange power the United States wields !
and how unjustly it always manages to
touch women, for now comes up Utah with
similar complaint.
	I am not careful to touch the religious
aspects of this Utah question. I do not
care for it only so far as it touches, or is
touched by woman's political rights, al-
though I do know that woman's political
wrongs and her religious wrongs have been
very closely intermingled in the past. I
recall a Papal Bull of Urban II, in the 12th
century which compelled priests to discard
their wives, making of thousands of wo-
men in England, wives who were not wed,
of children, offspring who had no recogniz-
ed fathers.
	We of the National Woman's Suffrage
Association have nothing to do with the 
religious rights of women in Utah, except
in so far as they intermingle with, and
touch woman's political rights. But the
Utah question, which now comes up again,
is not simply a religious question. The 
government is continuously striving to
touch the political rights of the women of
this territory. Its Governor is a United
Statas officer, and in his last report to the
Secretary of the Interior, he so far trans-
cended the duties of his office, as to sug-
gest the disfranchisement of Utah women.
Almost every session of Congress sees some
bill of similar import introduced.
	The general government did not confer
this right, did not secure even the exer-
cise of this right. The territorial legisla-
ture the same as in Wyoming, secured to
women the exercise of the right of suffrage;
the United States according to its own
theory, has nothing at all to do with the suffrage
question. It proposes to disfranchise those
women as a punishment for their religious
belief; it proposes to make social outcasts
of them, as it has already done with the
wives of some of its black soldier voters.
	Looking back through history we find no
act of the Romish Church more vile than
that which compelled its priests to disown
their wives and legitimate children—none
which so utterly demoralized society, and
destroyed its tens of thousands of women.
And although as a body of reformers, I
again say we do not touch religion except
where it, and politics together, infringe up-
ou the rights of women, I do not hesitate
to say for myself individually, that I have
no faith in any form of religion, be it what
it may, Christian, Mohammedan, Buddhist,
that receives revelation only through some
man; or farther than that, I will say, I have
no faith in any form of religion that does
not place man and woman on an exact
equality of religious rights. Two forms of 
religion of the present day which have
risen through women, or as revelations to
her, namely the Shaker and the Spiritual,
do give us equality in religious rights, for
men and women. But I close by again
calling your attention to the inconsistency
of United States laws, and their especial
injustice to women by interference with
those rights secured them by state or terri-
torial laws, as in case of the colored soldier's
wife, as in case the assumption that the


United States had a right to prohibit the
exercise of the suffrage by a woman in
New York, although New York itself did
not interfere: as in case of the virtual pro-
hibition by the United States of jury rights
to the women of Wyoming; in case of the
presumptuous suggestion of the Governor
of Utah that its women should be disfran-
chised; as in case of such bills so often in-
troduced in Congress.
	And Senator Blaine with his eye on the
Presidency—with his primal admission
that the right of suf[-]rage belongs to all citi-
zens of the United States, devoting his
recent great speech entirely to the denial
of black men's rights of citizenship, his
talk about the black men being the "un-
witting instrument" of increasing the po-
litical strength of a party inimical to him;
his wish that the basis of representation
should be lessened in those states where
the black man is deprived of his right to
vote, exhibits an inconsistency that all
thinking women notice. In this speech he
said not a word about lessening the basis of
representation on account of woman's being
deprived of her right to vote.
	The country was wild over Mr. Blaine's
speech. All Washington was agog to hear
it. The gallery and floor of the Senate
Chamber were filled; the diplomats were
present; Democrats and Republicans were
alike disturbed by it; but really it was a 
very small matter in comparison to the de-
nial of representation to women. Woman
is not only denied the right of representa-
tion, but she is actually counted in the basis
of representation, and thus to use the words
of Mr. Blaine, is the "unwitting instru-
ment" of electing men to make laws against
her. She is doubly powerless, because not
only has her own actual representation been
taken from her but a forced representation
is given her by her being counted in the 
basis of representation and she has never
been allowed to select her own representa-
tives. The only analogy I have ever been
able to find, is the old three-fifths representa-
tion of slaves; a system which allowed
masters to use slaves as a means of tighten-
ing their own bonds.
	But to borrow Mr. Blaine's form of ex-
pression, let me tell Mr. Blaine and all poli-
ticians, that I know something of the 
opinion of the women of the nation, and I 
know they intend to be recognized as citi-
zens of the nation secured in the exercise
of all the powers and rights of citizens of 
the nation. If this security has not come
under the 14th Amendment, it must come
under a 16th, for woman intends to possess
"equal personal rights and equal political
privileges with all other citizens." She
asks for nothing outside the power of the 
United States to secure, she asks for noth-
ing outside the duty of the United States 
to secure.
	Politicians may as well look this fact
squarely in the face and become wise after
the wisdom of the world, for in just so far
as they ignore and forget the women of the 
country, in just so far will they themselves
be ignored and forgotton.


