Grace Abbott
Grace Abbott, Chief of the Children's Bureau at Washington, D. C., is the successor of Miss Julia Lathrop. Miss Abbott came to the position well trained, for she is a graduate of Grand Island College, has done graduate work in the University of Nebraska and received her Master's Degree in Political Science from the University of Chicago, and has also studied at the University of Chicago Law School.
For several years she taught in the high school of her home town, Grand Island, Nebraska, and later at the University of Chicago and Chicago School of Civics and Philanthropy. When she became director of the Immigrant's Protective League of Chicago, she went to live at Hull House, the settlement established by Miss Jane Addams. Here she came into close contact with the problems of the residents of the poorer districts of a great city.
While yet a student at the University of Chicago she became convinced that the immigrants coming into this country were being exploited. She discovered that during half a century they had been the victims of varied wrongs, sometimes of petty thieving and sometimes injustice of a graver character. Entering a strange country with a strange language and with strange customs, it was natural that these people would at times become greatly confused and very much bewildered. Under these conditions it was an easy matter to make them the victims of wrong-doing. As these matters became known to Miss Abbott she waged what has been described as "a picturesque campaign to put a stop to the traditional exploitation of immigrants." An account at hand states: "It would be difficult to find a better piece of constructive work in Americanization of the finer sort than that accomplished by the Immigrants' Protective League of Chicago, under her leadership."
Miss Abbott's first national service for children was as director of the Child Labor Division of the U. S. Children's Bureau, to which post she was appointed in 1917. In this position, she was responsible for the administration of the first Federal child labor law, which forbade the inter-state transportation of the products of child labor. Her plan of work called for a genuine cooperation with state officials in the enforcement of the Act.
After the first Federal child labor law was declared unconstitutional, Miss Abbott held other public positions, including that of advisor on the War Labor Policies Board, secretary of the Child Welfare Conference with which the Children's Year campaign was concluded, and secretary of the Children's Commission of the First International Labor Conference.
It was natural and logical that Miss Lathrop should reach out for one as well trained as Miss Abbott to assist her in the bureau, and equally natural and logical that Miss Abbott should follow Miss Lathrop as chief. Prior to this time, and since her appointment as head of the bureau, Miss Abbott has been the American representative at committees created by the League of Nations for the purpose of devising standards for the protection of women and children. She is also one of four women to hold the position of president of the National Conference of Social Work. These women are: Miss Jane Addams (1910), Mrs. John M. Glenn (1915), Miss Julia Lathrop (1919), Miss Grace Abbott (1924).
But what we place special value on at the present time is Miss Abbott's work in the Children's Bureau. Miss Lathrop, while in office, had reviewed the child labor legislation of various states, made a study of infant mortality, and of the lack of vital statistics in many states, and finally framed the maternity bill now before congress. Miss Abbott has carried on all this work, and is now administrating the Child Welfare and Maternity bill.
Miss Abbott impresses one as being full of good will and of a desire to be helpful to the little ones whose friend she is, and to this good will she adds knowledge that enables her to be their friend in very deed. When in public addresses she makes reference to the children her face beams, giving evidence of an inner joy that is born of love for them. In these moments she unconsciously rises to a beauty of expression characteristic of oratory of an impressive sort.
A writer referring to Miss Abbott's work says: "In listing the work Miss Abbott has done and the recognition accorded her, the tendency is to omit mention of the modest personality, the ringing oratory, the gay wit, the enormous zest in life and the varied interests, which make up the charm of this energetic and clear-headed woman. And yet these are the things her friends know best and cherish most."