[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: The Day | Author: Sutherland]
[The Day We All Went to Rainbow Springs— First Prize Story Deone R. Sutherland]

"Grandma 'Trent will be here with you. She wants to stay—and it will give her a home. She loves you children and your daddy." "T love Grandma 'Trent, and Grandma Wilson, too," Kathy said slowly, "but they're too old to be mothers..." and suddenly she could contain her anguish no longer. She bent over, burrowing her head in Carol's lap, sobbing. Carol held her close, letting the grief wash out. Finally, when the child was a little calmer, her aunt began, "I know how you feel, Kathy. It is hard to lose someone we love. You know, I loved your mother, too—we all did. And we are all grieved. But these things have to be faced—death as well as life." Kathy was listening, her sobs stilled. "You know, darling, Aunt Carol lost someone very dear to her —a young man she had promised to marry. He was killed in a shocking car accident—it seemed so needless... 2" Her voice trailed off, remembering her own anguish at the loss, at the realization of the futility of dreams, Kathy raised her tear-stained face. "Oh," she breathed, "he would have been my uncle! I know I have other uncles, but he would have been special, wouldn't he? Belonging to you!" 'Then, after a moment of thought, "But you didn't get over it, did you, Aunt Carol?" Carol was startled. All day she had been trying to help the children over this difficult time until they got over the worst of their sorrow. And the little girl had understood, and now, with one sentence had re- 28 futed her aunt's hope. Carol felt she couldn't let this pass. "In a way you're right, darling. In a way I haven't got over it, as you say. I think a person never gets over a true, deep love. And I think one shouldn't want to. For love is a treasure to be held dear and sacred. But the grief—the bitter grief —I have got over that, Kathy." "Then why haven't you married someone else, Aunt Carol?" Carol shook her head. So the child had heard the others talking! Well, she should be answered, and honestly. "I don't know. [ve just never found anyone that I thought could take his place." "And we'll never find anyone to take Mommy's place, either!" Kathy cried, the tears springing to her eyes again. Carol was shocked. Of course there never was anyone to take a dearly beloved person's place. But this child should not be left without a ray of hope. "Of course not, Kathy. You wouldn't want anyone to take your mother's place. But there ls someone, somewhere, who can take her very own place in your life—another mother—not Elizabeth, of course, but someone you'll love for her own self. Someone who will love you." And somehow, unbidden, there flashed into Carol's mind the look on the face of Brent Gibson as he had told her goodby at the airport yesterday. She didn't have time to wonder at this. Kathy flung her arms around her aunt's neck. "You, Aunt Carol!" she cried passionately, "you are the only one!" Carol drew back, involuntarily. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 "No!" she whispered. "Not me, Kathy! Not me!" The little girl's arms dropped. She drew back, rejected, her face stiff. Carol drew her close again, and said softly, her lips against Kathy's hair. "Listen, darling. I do love you dearly, all of you. But it is not for me to come into your home and take over the rearing of you children. It's a responsibility that I'm not qualified to meet. And your Grandmother 'Trent will be here— she needs a home, and she has reared children—your Daddy. She knows the things that I don't know. Oh, Kathy, darling! It just isn't possible!" AROL couldn't, even in her own mind, balance her love for Elizabeth's children against her love of her work, her love of freedom that she had won after such a struggle. She couldn't say, even to herself, "Mrs. Trent can care for these children—but no one, no one can do my job!" Kathy's thin body was stiff in her aunt's arms. "I know," she said resignedly. "I guess Pll go up to bed now, Aunt Carol." Carol let her go.