[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Home | Title: 45 Regulations Governing the Submitted of Material for Notes From the Field"72 FEATURES FOR THE HOME It's a New Year Helen S. Williams]
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  Sec  regulations  governing  the  submittal  of 
material  for  "Notes  P^om  the  Field"  in  this  Magazine  on  page  47. 
Photograph  submitted  by  Annie  B.  Larson 
WESTERN  CANADIAN  MISSION,  YUKON  TERRITORY,  WHITEHORSE 
BRANCH  RELIEF  SOCIETY  WINS  PRIZE  IN  DOMINION-WIDE 
QUILT  CONTEST 
Left  to  right:  Leone  Jorde;  Crystal  Jorde,  Secretary -Treasurer;  Grace  North,  First 
Counselor;  Ethel  Robertson,  President;  Beth  Drayton;  Myrna  Robertson. 
Annie  B.  Larson,  President,  ^\'estern  Canadian  ^Iission  Relief  Society,  reports: 
"This  quilt  was  designed  by  Leone  Jorde,  who  also  won  two  indi\idual  awards  for  quilts. 
Crystal  Jorde  won  an  indi\idual  award  for  an  afghan  in  the  same  contest.  Beth  Dray- 
ton, who  lives  1  50  miles  from  Whitehorse,  took  part  in  the  quiltmaking  by  mail.  The 
Whitehorse  Relief  Society  was  organized  in  September  1956.  It  is  probably  one  of 
the  most  isolated  in  the  world.  Whitehorse  is  located  on  the  Alaskan  Highway,  and 
over  one  thousand  miles  of  rugged  northland  separate  these  sisters  from  the  nearest 
branch  of  the  Church.  And,  despite  this  isolation,  these  sisters  have  an  outstanding 
Relief  Society.  .  .  .  The  Dominion  Contest  which  these  sisters  entered  receives  entries 
from  all  over  Canada,  and  to  win  a  prize  among  such  stiff  competition  is  a  distinct 
honor." 
Page  45

46 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1958 
Photograph  submitted  by  Martha  C.  Eagar 
JUAB  STAKE  (UTAH)   SINGING  MOTHERS  FURNISH  MUSIC  FOR 
STAKE  QUARTERLY  CONFERENCE 
Martha  C.  Eagar,  President,  Juab  Stake  Relief  Society,  is  seated  second  from  the 
left  in  the  front  row;  First  Counselor  Helen  B.  Jones  at  the  left,  front  row;  Mary  G. 
Jensen,  Second  Counselor,  is  seated  in  the  third  row,  eighth  from  the  left;  chorister 
Vivian  P.  Hoyt  and  organist  Jennie  Hintce  are  seated  at  the  right  in  the  front  row. 
Sister  Eagar  reports  that  the  Singing  Mothers  chorus  of  Juab  Stake  numbers  loo 
members  and  comprises  six  wards.    The  chorus  sings  at  stake  quarterly  conferences. 
Photograph  submitted  by  Marion  N.  Pinkston 
LOS  ANGELES  STAKE   (CALIFORNIA),  ARLINGTON  WARD  FORMER 
RELIEF   SOCIETY   PRESIDENTS   HONORED  AT   ANNUAL 
BIRTHDAY  PARTY 
Left  to  right:  Maude  Sanders  LaFrankie;  Jeannette  Wride  Redd;  Leone  Haymore 
Tyler;  Edna  Layton  Jones;  Vera  Eddington  Thomsen;  Caroline  Layton  Naylor;  Artemesia 
Woolley  Farr;  Vivian  Hastings  Kerr;  Artell  Funk  Lent;  Evva  Osborn  Vorhees. 
Helen  Barlow  Clayton  was  not  present  when  the  picture  was  taken. 
Marion  N.  Pinkston,  President,  Los  Angeles  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports:  "The 
Arlington  Ward  was  organized  in  1936  and  has  had  eleven  Relief  Society  presidents, 
all  of  whom  are  still  living  and  active  in  Church  organizations."

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
47 
Photograph  submitted  by  Lovell  W,  Smith 
CENTRAL  ATLANTIC  STATES  MISSION,  NORTH  CAROLINA  CENTRAL 
DISTRICT  RELIEF  SOCIETY  HONORS  RETIRING  PRESIDENT 
AT  SOCIAL,  September  29,  1957 
Left  to  right:  Ruby  Braddock,  retiring  Seeretary;  Alice  Brewer,  retiring  President; 
Jessie  Roberts,  President;  Mary  Ball,  First  Counselor;  Leone  Johnson,  Second  Counselor; 
Beulah  Aldridge,  Secretary. 
Lo\'ell  W.  Smith,  President,  Central  Atlantic  States  Mission  Relief  Society,  reports: 
'The  retirement  of  Alice  Brewer  as  Relief  Society  President  of  the  North  Carolina  Cen- 
tral District,  occasioned  a  social  in  her  honor  at  the  Colfax  chapel.  Attending  were  the 
executive  officers  of  the  district  and  branch  Relief  Societies.  On  behalf  of  the  members 
throughout  the  district.  Sister  Brewer's  successor  to  the  presidency.  Sister  Jessie  Roberts, 
presented  a  gift  in  appreciation  of  her  seven  years  of  faithful  and  productive  service." 
LKeguiations   (governing  the  Suomittai  of  il Latenal 
for     f  iotes  QJroin  the  QJiela 
npHIS  section  of  the  Magazine  is  specifically  devoted  to  pictures  and 
accounts  of  activities  and  accomplishments  of  Relief  Societies  from  all 
over  the  world.  Through  this  section  are  revealed  blessings  of  this  great 
organization  as  they  touch  the  lives  of  sisters  in  small,  remote  areas,  in  the 
larger  organizations  in  the  increasing  number  of  the  stakes  of  the  Church, 
and  in  the  widely  scattered  missions  throughout  the  world.  From  the 
pages  of  this  section  new  ideas  may  be  gained  for  conducting  the  various 
phases  of  the  program  of  Relief  Society,  and  it  is  hoped  that  all  members 
of  Relief  Society  far  and  near  will  sense  more  fully  the  great  sisterhood 
of  which  they  are  a  part,  all  striving  in  their  particular  Relief  Society 
organizations  for  the  accomplishment  of  the  same  general  goals. 
Each  stake  and  each  mission  is  entitled  to  have  published  in  ''Notes

48  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1958 
From  the  Field"  one  picture  and  accompanying  descriptive  material  each 
year.  Inasmuch  as  the  space  available  for  this  section  is  so  limited  in 
relation  to  the  number  of  stakes  and  missions,  it  is  reserved  for  the  ac- 
counts and  pictures  of  organizations  or  groups  in  ward  or  stake  Relief 
Society  organizations,  rather  than  for  individuals. 
-  When  submitting  pictures,  it  is  requested  that  only  one  picture  be 
sent,  rather  than  submitting  several  pictures  with  the  request  that  the  gen- 
eral board  select  one  from  the  group  for  publication.  Pictures  can  be  used 
only  if  they  are  clear  and  distinct  and  will  make  good  cuts  for  reproduction. 
In  making  arrangements  for  having  pictures  taken,  the  person  in 
charge  should  carefully  check  the  following  points: 
1.  Be  sure  that  the  women  in  the  picture  are  arranged  so  that  all  of  the  faces  will 
be  visible. 
2.  The  photographer  should  stand  as  close  as  possible  to  the  group,  as  long  distance 
shots  do  not  reproduce  well  in  the  Magazine. 
3.  Note  the  position  of  each  woman,  especially  those  who  are  seated. 
4.  When  the  picture  shows  a  large  group  of  women,  it  is  more  effective  to  arrange 
them  in  a  number  of  shorter  rows,  rather  than  in  one  or  two  long  lines, 
5.  The  print  should  be  finished  in  glossy  black  and  white  and  should  be  made  in 
size  eight  inches  by  ten  inches,  if  possible,  although  smaller  prints  will  be  accepted. 
Information  accompanying  the  picture  should  give  a  descriptive  title 
of  the  picture,  and  state  the  activity  represented  or  the  purpose  of  the 
meeting  of  the  group.  The  date  of  the  event  should  also  be  indicated. 
Identification  of  persons  in  the  picture  should  be  made  on  the  reverse 
side.  Names  should  be  given  from  left  to  right,  and  written  clearly. 
Officers  in  the  picture  and  such  other  women  as  may  have  been  leaders  in 
the  project  presented  in  the  picture,  or  those  who  are  especially  honored 
on  the  occasion,  may  be  identified.  Give  first  names  of  the  women, 
such  as  Jennie  N.  Davis,  instead  of  Mrs.  John  Davis  or  Sister  Davis,  and 
state  position  held. 
Notes  and  pictures  should  be  submitted  as  soon  after  the  event  as 
possible. 
Pictures  published  in  the  Church  News  will  not  be  published  also  in 
the  Magazine. 
All  material  submitted  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  should  be  sent 
through  stake  or  mission  Relief  Society  presidents  and  should  be  addressed 
to  the  General  Secretary-Treasurer  of  Relief  Society,  76  North  Main  Street, 
Salt  Lake  City  11,  Utah.  The  name  of  the  person  submitting  the  ma- 
terial should  be  indicated,  together  with  the  name  of  the  stake  or  mission 
it  is  to  represent.  (See  also  Handbook  of  Instructions  of  the  Relief 
Society.) 
The  general  board  would  like  to  express  its  appreciation  for  the  ex- 
cellent co-operation  received  from  the  stakes  and  missions  in  submitting 
material  for  ''Notes  From  the  Field."