[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Award | Author: Contest]
[Award Winners — Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest]

award for an afghan in the same contest. Beth Drayton, who lives 150 miles from Whitehorse, took part in the quiltmaking by mail. The Whitehorse Relief Society was organized in September 1956. It is probably one of the most isolated in the world. Whitehorse is located on the Alaskan Highway, and over one thousand miles of rugged northland separate these sisters from the nearest branch of the Church. And, despite this isolation, these sisters have an outstanding Relief Society.... The Dominion Contest which these sisters entered receives entries from all over Canada, and to win a prize among such stiff competition is a distinct honor." Page 45 46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 Photograph submitted by Martha C. Eagar JUAB STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Martha C. Eagar, President, Juab Stake Relief Society, is seated second from the left in the front row; First Counselor Helen B. Jones at the left, front row; Mary G. Jensen, Second Counselor, is seated in the third row, eighth from the left; chorister Vivian P. Hoyt and organist Jennie Hintce are seated at the right in the front row. Sister Eagar reports that the Singing Mothers chorus of Juab Stake numbers 100 members and comprises six wards. The chorus sings at stake quarterly conferences. Photograph submitted by Marion N. Pinkston LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), ARLINGTON WARD FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT ANNUAL BIRTHDAY PARTY Left to right: Maude Sanders LaFrankie; Jeannette Wride Redd; Leone Haymore Tyler; Fdna Layton Jones; Vera Eddington Thomsen; Caroline Layton Naylor, Artemesia Woolley Farr; Vivian Hastings Kerr; Artell Funk Lent; Evva Osborn Vorhees. Helen Barlow Clayton was not present when the picture was taken. Marion N. Pinkston, President, Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, reports: ""The Arlington Ward was organized in 1936 and has had eleven Relief Society presidents, all of whom are still living and active in Church organizations." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 47 Photograph submitted by Lovell W. Smith CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION, NORTH CAROLINA CENTRAL DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS RETIRING PRESIDENT AT SOCIAL, September 29, 1957 Left to right: Ruby Braddock, retiring Secretary; Alice Brewer, retiring President; Jessie Roberts, President; Mary Ball, First Counselor; Leone Johnson, Second Counselor; Beulah Aldridge, Secretary. Lovell W. Smith, President, Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society, reports: "The retirement of Alice Brewer as Relief Society President of the North Carolina Central District, occasioned a social in her honor at the Colfax chapel. Attending were the executive officers of the district and branch Relief Societies. On behalf of the members throughout the district, Sister Brewer's successor to the presidency, Sister Jessie Roberts, presented a gift in appreciation of her seven years of faithful and productive service." Regulations Governing the Submittal of MNlaterial for "Tlotes From the Sield HIS section of the Magazine is specifically devoted to pictures and accounts of activities and accomplishments of Relief Societies from all over the world. 'Through this section are revealed blessings of this great organization as they touch the lives of sisters in small, remote areas, in the larger organizations in the increasing number of the stakes of the Church, and in the widely scattered missions throughout the world. From the pages of this section new ideas may be gained for conducting the various phases of the program of Relief Society, and it is hoped that all members of Relief Society far and near will sense more fully the great sisterhood of which they are a part, all striving in their particular Relief Society organizations for the accomplishment of the same general goals. Each stake and each mission is entitled to have published in "Notes 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 From the Field" one picture and accompanying descriptive material each year. Inasmuch as the space available for this section is so limited in relation to the number of stakes and missions, it is reserved for the accounts and pictures of organizations or groups in ward or stake Relief Society organizations, rather than for individuals. When submitting pictures, it is requested that only one picture be sent, rather than submitting several pictures with the request that the general board select one from the group for publication. Pictures can be used only if they are clear and distinct and will make good cuts for reproduction. In making arrangements for having pictures taken, the person in charge should carefully check the following points: 1. Be sure that the women in the picture are arranged so that all of the faces will be visible. 2. The photographer should stand as close as possible to the group, as long distance shots do not reproduce well in the Magazine. 3. Note the position of each woman, especially those who are seated. 4. When the picture shows a large group of women, it is more effective to arrange them in a number of shorter rows, rather than in one or two long lines. 5. The print should be finished in glossy black and white and should be made in size eight inches by ten inches, if possible, although smaller prints will be accepted. Information accompanying the picture should give a descriptive title of the picture, and state the activity represented or the purpose of the meeting of the group. The date of the event should also be indicated. Identification of persons in the picture should be made on the reverse side. Names should be given from left to might, and written clearly. Officers in the picture and such other women as may have been leaders in the project presented in the picture, or those who are especially honored on the occasion, may be identified. Give first names of the women, such as Jennie N. Davis, instead of Mrs. John Davis or Sister Davis, and state position held. Notes and pictures should be submitted as soon after the event as possible. Pictures published in the Church News will not be published also in the Magazine. All material submitted for "Notes From the Field" should be sent through stake or mission Relief Society presidents and should be addressed to the General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The name of the person submitting the material should be indicated, together with the name of the stake or mission it is to represent. (See also Handbook of Instructions of the Reliet Society. ) The general board would like to express its appreciation for the excellent co-operation received from the stakes and missions in submitting material for "Notes From the Field." el LESS N DEPARTMENT I ——I Sheology— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 7—The Three Special Book of Mormon Witnesses Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants: Sections 5, 6, 8, 9, 17) For Tuesday, April 1, 1958 Objective: To emphasize the importance of the testimonies of the men who assisted Joseph Smith at the time of the coming forth of The Book of Mormon. Urim and Thummim and Revelation ECTIONS 8 and 9g of the Doctrine and Covenants are directed to Oliver Cowdery, whose acquaintanceship with the Prophet Joseph Smith began April 5, 1829. It is interesting to notice that Section 6, as also Section 3 and others, was received through the Urim and Thummim. (See the superscription.) 'This fact points up a use of these sacred instruments other than for the translation of ancient writings. Oliver Cowdery Meets Joseph Smith Oliver Cowdery had been teaching school in the New York, Manchester township area where the Prophet's father's family resided. As was customary in those times, the school teacher lived with the families in the school district "who sent to the school," and, by this means, Oliver became acquainted with the Smith family. Before this he had heard from David Whitmer, a friend, about the Prophet having received 'The Book of Mormon plates. Two days after the arrival of Oliver Cowdery in Harmony township, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, where the Prophet was residing, the Prophet "... Commenced to translate the Book of Mormon, and he [Oliver] began to write for me" (The Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith 2:67). Sometime during this same month of April 1829, Joseph inquired of the Lord through the Urim and Thummim and received Section 6. Joseph Smith Received Divine Revelation The principal value of this revelation in our study is to learn wherein the testimony given to Oliver contributes to the fact that Joseph Page 49 50 Smith received divine revelations. The Lord herein reveals only that which Oliver Cowdery knew before meeting Joseph, but this same information was revealed to Joseph and thus the Lord sustained him as a prophet in the eyes of Oliver. With the foregoing facts in mind, let us turn to verses 14-18 of Section 6: Verily, verily, I say unto thee, blessed art thou for what thou hast done; for thou has inquired of me, and behold, as often as thou hast inquired thou hast received instruction of my Spirit. If it had not been so, thou wouldst not have come to the place where thou art at this time. Behold, thou knowest that thou hast inquired of me and I did enlighten thy mind; and now I tell thee these things that thou mayest know that thou hast been enlightened by the Spirit of truth; Yea, I tell thee, that thou mayest know that there is none else save God that knowest thy thoughts and the intents of thy heart. I tell thee these things as a witness unto thee—that the words or the work which thou hast been writing are true. Therefore be diligent; stand by my servant Joseph, faithfully, in whatsoever difficult circumstances he may be for the word's sake (D. & C. 6:14-18). Notice from this scripture that Oliver would not have come to visit Joseph, if it were not for the fact that his prayers had been answered. The Lord here makes known that the thoughts and intents of the heart are known to him, and that, in this case, Oliver Cowdery had received a witness that the work of translating the plates of 'The Book of Mormon in which Joseph Smith was employed, was of the Lord. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 Consequently, he is admonished to diligence in assisting Joseph. In order that Oliver might not lose sight of the witness that had been given to him, and also that he might understand more fully that he was, in fact, helping a true prophet of the Lord, this revelation continues in verses 22 to 24 inclusive, with further confirmation: Verily, verily, I say unto you, if you desire a further witness, cast your mind upon the night that you cried unto me in your heart, that you might know concerning the truth of these things. Did I not speak peace to your mind concerning the matter? What greater witness can you have than from God? And now, behold, you have received a witness; for if I have told you things which no man knoweth have you not received a witness? (D. & C. 6:22-24). In this way, the Lord confirmed the witness Oliver had _ received. Notice the — significant words: ".. If I have told you things which no man knoweth, have you not received a witness?" Joseph Smith, by revelation, now knew what only the Lord and Oliver had known previously. In the Prophet's history, we find this record of the witness given to Oliver: After we had received this revelation, Oliver Cowdery stated to me that after he had gone to my father's to board, and after the family had communicated to him concerning my having obtained the plates, that one night after he had retired to bed he called upon the Lord to know if these things were so, and the Lord manifested to him that they were true, but he had kept the circumstance entirely secret, and had mentioned it to no one; so that after this revelation was given, he knew that the work was true, LESSON DEPARTMENT because no being living knew of the thing alluded to in the revelation, but God and himself (D. H. C. 1:35). This circumstance resulted in the Prophet obtaining secretarial assistance which was much needed in the translation of 'The Book of Mormon plates. Oliver Cowdery did not return to schoolteaching, but remained with the Prophet to participate with him in many of the great spiritual blessings of this dlispensation. If you had the same experience as Oliver Cowdery in regard to Section 6, how would you have felt toward the Prophet and his work? Oliver was promised that he might have the gift to translate even as Joseph Smith (D. & C. 6:25). It is further revealed that " in the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established" (D. & C. 6:28) and that if the world accepts the word of the Lord given by the testimony of witnesses they shall be blessed (D. & C. 6:28-31). Martin Harris and Section 5 We shall now turn our attention to what the Lord has said concerning the witnesses who would testify with the Prophet Joseph Smith to the truth of the gospel message. In Lesson 5 we learned that Martin Harris had received evidence of the existence of 'The Book of Mormon plates by receiving a translated portion of the plates which he had lost. He was still desirous to obtain further evidence, notwithstanding he had received confirmation from Professor Charles Anthon that the copied characters from the plates were true hieroglyphics. (See D. H. C, 1:20.) As a result of this desire of Martin, the revelation 51 now known as Section 5 was given @D..&G, 50). The Prophet was under covenant to show the plates only to those whom iN Lord would designate (D. & C. Many times today —i of the Church suggest that if they could see the gold plates, they would be convinced that Joseph Smith actually had an ancient set of records. It seems that many believe, if the plates were put on exhibit, this would be sufficient evidence to them. In this revelation the Lord does not concur with such a thought. He says: Behold, if they will not believe my words, they would not believe you, my servant Joseph, if it were possible that you should show them all these things which [I have committed unto you (D. & C. 5:7). The world is to have the word of the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith (D. & C. 5:10). The Lord speaks through his divinely appointed servants.