[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Poem | Title: Potato | Author: Thought]
[Potato Starch Making Alice R. Rich 42 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: The Three Special Book of Mormon Witnesses Roy W. Doxey 49 Visiting Teacher Messages: "Look Unto Me in Every Thought]
The  widely  used  and  well-known  from  potatoes." 
potato,    a    native    of   the    Western  "From  potatoes!    That  we  eat  at 
Hemisphere,   took   on   a    new   and  the    table,    mashed,    baked,    or    in 
important  meaning  to  Martha  that  French  fries?" 
bright  June  day  when  she  came  in  "Yes." 
for  a  word  of  help  for  her  talk  on  "Well,  tell  me  about  it." 
pioneer  industries.  "I  must  go  back  to  the  planting 
She  was  dressed  in  a  circular  cot-  to  give  you  the  whole  story.  In  the 
ton  skirt,  rustling  in  its  crispness  spring,  after  the  frost  was  out  of 
and  snowy  whiteness.  Underneath,  the  ground,  the  time  was  ready  for 
and  just  barely  showing,  were  her  planting.  We  cut  each  seed  potato 
ruffled  crinoline  petticoats.  She  into  sections,  with  each  piece  hav- 
looked  very  much  like  a  full-blown  ing  an  eye  or  seed  germ  in  it.  These 
double  petunia  in  all  its  summer  we  planted  in  hills  about  twenty- 
beauty,  four   inches   apart,   and   they   grew 
"Martha,  you  look  very  pretty  in  into  sturdy  plants  which  blossomed 
your  summer  finery,  and  you  seem  with  a  blue-white  flower  somewhat 
as  happy  as  you  look."  resembling    the    snowdrop.     From 
"Thanks   Gramy!      Now   I   need  each  piece  of  planted  potato  many 
your   help.     You   always   know   so  roots  grew  out  and  reached  down 
much  about  pioneer  life,  I  wish  you  into  the  rich  black  soil  and  each 
would  tell  me  about  some  pioneer  root  grew  one  or  more  potatoes.  All 
project  that  you  really  helped  with  summer   the  plants    needed   irriga- 
and  know  all  about."  '  tion  water  and  occasional  hoeing  to 
"Your  new  outfit,  with  its  stand-  keep  the  soil  loose.  In  October,  be- 
out  skirts,  gives  me  an  idea.  These  fore  freezing  weather  came,  we 
permanently  stiff  fabrics  are  rather  harvested  them.  It  was  fun  to  fol- 
modern.  Many  of  them  have  been  low  behind  the  plow,  to  watch  the 
produced  since  you  were  born,  but  big  steel  blade  turn  over  the  soil 
the  idea  of  stiff  flaring  ruffles  dates  and  shell  out  the  ripened  potatoes, 
back  many  years."  some  large  and  some  small.     The 
"How  did  you  make  your  ruffles  potatoes  seemed  glad  to  get  out  into 
stand  out?"  the  sun  and  air,   and  we  thought 
"We  used  starch,  the  thicker  we  they  looked  at  us  with  their  many 
made  the  starch  the  stiffer  our  ruf-  dull  eyes  as  we  gathered  them  into 
fles    ironed    out.      But    each    time  buckets  and  baskets.    The  large  ones 
when  our  clothes  were  laundered,  we  stored  in  pits  for  table  use,  and 
the  starching  process  had  to  be  done  the  small  ones  we  washed  at  the 
over  again."  clear   irrigation   ditch   in   the  back 
Page  42

POTATO  STARCH  MAKING  43 
yard   ready  for   starch   making  the  small  potatoes  on  this  and  let  the 
next  morning.  bits  fall  into  a  tub  of  clear  water. 
"Harvesting   potatoes  was  a  full  "A  potato  is  seventy-eight  per  cent 
day's  work,  and  we  celebrated  with  starch,  and  only  about  two  and  two- 
a  roast  in  the  evening.    We  built  a  tenths  protein.     The  starch  readily 
good  fire  with  wood  chips  and  bur-  separated  and  made  the  water  milky 
ied  the  potatoes  in  the  hot  coals  and  white.     After  stirring  the  mixture 
ashes.      While    they    cooked    we  well,  we  covered  the  tubs  and  let 
played    'Run    Sheep,    Run,'    'Steal  the  mixture  stand  overnight.    Next 
Sticks,'    and    Tomp,    Pomp,    Pull  morning,  the  pulp,  washed  clean  of 
Away,'  in  the  light  of  the  bonfire,  starch,  floated  on  top  the  water  and 
When  we  took  the  potatoes  from  on  the  bottom  of  the  tub  we  found 
the  fire,  they  were  sometimes  a  little  a  thick  layer  of  damp  starch.  When 
burned    and    always    very    hot    to  this    was    dried,    it    crumbled    into 
handle,  but  we  enjoyed  eating  the  flakes  or  granules  ready  for  use  for 
flavorful  fluffy  centers  with  a  sprin-  the  family  laundry.     On  wash  days 
kle  of  salt  on  them.  we  dissolved  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the 
''After  a  night's  sleep  we  were  up  dried  starch  in  a  little  cold  water 
and  at  our  next  stage  of  our  harvest  and   poured   boiling   water  over   it 
—starch  making."  and  it  became  a  creamy  mass.    This 
"How    could    you    make    starch  we  put  into  the  last  rinse  water  for 
from  potatoes?"  our  cotton  clothes   to   make  them 
"The  first  thing  we  must  have  a  iron  out  smooth  and  stiff." 
grater.    This  was  made  by  piercing  "Thanks,  Gramy,  for  a  very  inter- 
nail  holes  in  a  large  piece  of  tin,  esting  bit  of  pioneer  lore.  My  teach- 
bent   and   tacked   in   a   bow   on   a  er  and  the  class  will  be  glad  when 
board.    We  carefully  shredded  the  I  tell  them  about  it." 
GU  Organ 
Ida  Elaine  James 
Here  in  this  dusty  room  of  memory 
Where  cluster  mutely  the  intaglio 
Of  things  once  loved  and  lost,  it  speaks  to  me, 
A  silent  voice  from  out  the  long  ago. 
I  seem  to  see  a  tattered  songbook  spread 
Across  the  holder  of  frail  curlecues 
Flanked  on  each  side  by  lowered  wicks  which  shed 
From  shaded  lamps,  a  light  to  guide  the  muse. 
There  come  to  me  again  beloved  words 
That  warm  the  heart:  "Blessed  Be  the  Tie  That  Binds"- 
The  healing  music  of  those  time-worn  chords 
That  lifted  heavenward  young  hearts  and  minds. 
Fondly  my  heart  goes  back  into  the  mist 
Where  echoes  follow  "Oh,  Abide  With  Me." 
Once  more  youth  is  the  mellow  organist 
And  tender  voices  keep  it  companv — 
Young  faith  repeated  in  the  dust  and  gloom 
Of  a  bent  antiquary's  cluttered  room.