[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Poem | Title: 10 Song of the Weathervanes — Second Prize Poem Lael W. Hill]
The  beautiful  "Thanksgiving  Song"  by 
Margery  S.  Stewart  in  the  November  issue 
of  the  Magazine  stirred  my  very  soul.  It  is 
like  a  beautiful,  unselfish  prayer.  We  too 
seldom  think  to  give  thanks  for  our  doc- 
tors, nurses,  teachers,  and  others  who  give 
so  much  service  to  the  world.  I  should 
also  like  to  comment  on  the  article  "Moth- 
er Had  Seven  Girls"  in  the  June  1957 
issue  of  the  Magazine.  My  mother  also 
had  seven  girls,  and  we  had  practically  the 
same  experiences  as  those  related  by  Sister 
Jennie  B.  Rawlins.  Six  of  us  still  remain, 
and  our  lives  and  homes  have  been  made 
richer  and  fuller  by  having  such  wonder- 
ful material  and  religious  training  in  our 
pioneer  home. 
— Mrs.  Aletha  Lowe  Hardy 
Franklin,  Idaho 
They  say  that  everything  comes  to  those 
who  wait,  and  sometimes  you  can  get  it 
a  little  quicker  if  you  go  after  it.  Well, 
for  years  I've  been  after  the  things  re- 
quired for  netting,  and  I  didn't  even  get 
to  first  base.  Now,  I  open  my  Magazine 
and  find  just  what  I  want  ("Netting  To- 
day," by  Olive  W.  Burt,  November  1957, 
page  750).  I  am  very  happy  that  the 
equipment  and  instructions  are  available. 
— Lenora  McAdam 
Vancouver,  B.  C. 
Canada 
A  few  years  ago  I  was  on  my  mission 
in  the  Central  Atlantic  States.  The  Relief 
Society  of  the  ward  sent  me  a  subscription, 
as  they  do  all  missionaries  from  this  area. 
Then  and  there  I  became  fully  aware  that 
the  Lord  was  inspiring  somebody  to  fill 
the  pages  of  that  Magazine  with  the  best 
literature  available.  I  studied  the  theology 
section  each  month  and  used  the  lessons 
with  our  investigators  with  the  best  of 
success.  I  can  truthfully  say  that  the 
Magazine  was  one  of  the  most  valuable 
sources  of  information  I  had  to  use  on 
my  mission.  .  .  .  Now  I  am  married  and 
ha\e  a  family.  I  remember  the  Magazine 
in  the  home  of  my  grandmother,  my 
mother,  and  other  relatives.  Now  it  is  in 
our  home.  We  would  feel  lost  without  it. 
—Dr.  Robert  G.  Tallcy 
La  Crescenta,  California 
ar 
For  the  past  few  months  I  have  been 
receiving  copies  of  The  KoiiQi  Society 
Magazine,  but  I  have  not  any  idea  at  all 
who  is  sending  them,  but  I  have  spent 
many  evenings  reading  the  interesting 
articles.  I  am  a  member  of  the  South 
London  Branch,  and  although  I  am  not 
a  member  of  Relief  Society,  I  am  very  inter- 
ested in  the  work  and  enjoy  learning  about 
the  activities.  The  article  I  enjoyed  most 
in  the  September  issue  was  "A  Temple 
Rises  in  New  Zealand,"  by  Wealtha  S. 
Mendenhall.  I  am  very  interested  in  ge- 
ography, so  any  article  about  a  foreign 
country  has  me  enthralled!  A  temple  is 
also  rising  in  England,  here  at  Newchapel, 
and  it  will  be  really  wonderful  for  us  all 
when  it  is  finished.  After  reading  about 
Relief  Society  work,  I  have  reassured  my- 
self that  I  will  become  a  member  when 
I  am  older,  as  I  am  only  fifteen  years  old, 
and  all  my  time  is  filled  up  with  school 
work  at  the  moment. 
— Margaret  Scrivener 
Putney,  London 
England 
Each  month  in  the  Central  American 
Mission,  twenty-one  Relief  Society  organ- 
izations, with  a  membership  of  300,  re- 
ceive the  Magazine.  The  sisters  are  grate- 
ful to  the  general  board  of  Relief  Society 
and  others  for  the  gift  subscriptions. 
Their  native  language  is  Spanish.  Only  a 
few  read  Enghsh.  However,  from  the 
pictures,  frontispieces,  covers,  Notes  From 
the  Field,  hobbies,  etc.,  they  get  an  in- 
sight into  Relief  Society  activities.  They 
see  other  Singing  Mothers  wearing  the 
uniform  dark  skirt  and  white  blouse;  other 
sisters  making  quilts,  doilies,  and  rugs.  The 
picture  of  my  mother,  Mrs.  Ella  J.  Cotter, 
in  the  August  issue,  with  her  lovely  quilts, 
pleased  them,  of  course.  They  noted  the 
fluff iness  of  the  quilts  and  the  radiance  of 
her  smile,  telling  them  that  life  is  full 
at  eighty-fi\e  years,  if  we  employ  our 
minds  and  hands  to  create.  The  Maga- 
zine truly  makes  for  world  sisterhood  in 
our  Church. 
— Gladys  K.  Wagner 
President 
Central  American  Mission 
Relief  Society 
Page  2

Women,  Wonderful  Women! 
Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
SINCE  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
last  century  and  the  hght  of 
truth  has  pervaded  the  earth,  par- 
ticularly the  country  in  which  the 
Restoration  took  place,  there  has 
been  fabulous  progress  in  material 
things.  We  have  come  from  the 
horse  plow  to  the  great  tractor  driv- 
en batteries  of  plows.  From  the 
tallow  candle  to  the  electric  light; 
from  the  sickle  and  cradle  to  the 
harvesting  machines;  from  the  ox 
team  to  the  car,  the  bus,  the  train, 
and  the  plane;  from  the  almost  prim- 
itive sail  ships  to  the  ponderous 
ocean  liners;  from  the  pony  express 
to  air  mail,  telephone,  telegraph, 
cable,  and  radio  the  world  around. 
Great  strides  in  facilities  have 
come  to  women,  bringing  ease,  time, 
comforts,  and  conveniences.  From 
the  four-wall  house  has  come  the 
many-room  mansion  enjoyed  by  the 
majority  of  people;  from  the  metal 
wash  tub  to  the  porcelain  and  tile 
tub  and  shower  baths,  often  two  or 
more  to  the  home;  from  the  iron 
stove  for  wood  or  coal  to  the  gas 
and  electric  ranges,  and  the  central 
heating  controlled  from  a  single 
switch;  from  the  broom  to  the  vac- 
uum; from  the  pantry  to  the  refrig- 
erator, deep  freeze,  and  the  storage 
room;  from  the  washtub  to  the  pow- 
er machine  cleaner,  and  from  the 
sadiron  to  the  laundry,  or  to  the 
dryers,  mangles,  and  other  efficient 
ironers;  from  the  garden  and  farm 
to  the  neighborhood  shopping  cen- 
Page  4 
ter  where  everything  from  a  needle 
to  a  threshing  machine  can  be  had 
in  proper  packages  in  limitless  va- 
riety. 
The  modern  housewife  has  the 
dishwasher,  the  disposal,  the  tele- 
phone, delivery  service,  garbage  col- 
lection, sprinkling  systems.  She 
usually  has  a  car  of  her  own  or  a 
car  available  to  her,  and  a  radio  in 
her  kitchen  while  she  does  her  re- 
duced duties,  and  a  television  set 
in  her  living  room  to  watch  as  she 
has  leisure.  Today's  women,  espec- 
ially in  the  United  States  and  some 
other  countries,  have  ease,  comfort, 
leisure,  conveniences,  and  time,  such 
as  no  other  women  in  history  have 
had. 
What  has  she  done  with  her  new- 
found liberties  and  freedoms  and 
opportunities  and  time?  Has  she 
perfected  her  own  life?  Is  she  more 
dutiful  and  faithful  to  her  reduced 
home  duties  than  was  her  great- 
grandmother  with  her  multiplicity 
of  arduous  ones?  Is  today's  woman 
a  better  wife  to  her  husband?  Is  the 
modern  electrically  driven  home  of 
today  a  happier  haven  of  refuge  than 
the  four  walls  of  the  last  centuries? 
Is  she  today  a  better,  more  congen- 
ial neighbor  than  yesterday's  wom- 
an? Does  she  have  more  children 
now  that  she  has  more  time,  better 
facilities,  and  more  help?  Does  she 
train  her  children  better  than  her 
ancestors  did?  Does  she  herself 
have  more  faith  and  piety  than  the 
women  of  old?    And  does  she  better

WOMEN,  WONDERFUL  WOMEN! 
instill  into  her  children   the  faith 
which  will  make  gods  of  them? 
T  am  thinking  of  the  blessed  moth- 
ers who  accepted  the  gospel  un- 
der the  voice  and  pleadings  of  those 
great  missionaries,  the  sons  of  Mo- 
siah  two  millenia  ago.  These  wom- 
en loved  their  children  next  to  the 
Lord;  they  would  sacrifice  everything 
for  the  kingdom  and  for  their  off- 
spring; they  were  w^omen  who  re- 
mained home  and  taught  their  chil- 
dren righteousness  and  were  willing 
to  forego  the  society  affairs  and  the 
spectacular  events;  women  who 
gave  themselves  to  their  homes  and 
families.  In  spite  of  the  crudeness 
of  their  facilities,  the  household 
drudgery  and  farm  service,  they  bore 
and  reared  their  families  in  a  man- 
ner which  is  seldom  found  today. 
Is  it  possible  in  all  the  history  of 
the  world  down  to  this  current  year, 
that  there  ever  was  a  group  of  wives 
and  mothers  so  diligent  in  their 
training,  so  powerful  in  example,  so 
efficient  in  instilling  into  their  sons 
an  unswerving  faith  in  God?  There 
could  never  be  such  a  spontaneous 
universal  development  without  or- 
ganization and  a  spearheading  move- 
ment. The  Church  of  God  through 
its  Priesthood  and  Auxiliaries  gave 
that  leadership.  These  sisters  must 
have  been  organized  to  teach  each 
other  and  to  build  faith  and  to 
study  the  gospel  and  to  build  an  in- 
dividual testimony  toward  a  plateau 
of  mass  faith  which  would  be  so 
necessary.  Certain  it  is  that  they 
acted  in  unison.  They  with  their 
husbands  buried  their  weapons  of 
war;  they  took  the  same  oaths;  they 
taught  their  sons  the  same  doctrines. 
They  repented  of  their  evils,  and 
their  war  killings  and  vowed  they 
would  never  again  take  the  life  of 
even  an  enemy  and  even  in  war. 
Their  determination  was  fixed. 
When  enemies  came  upon  them 
they  would  ''suffer  death  in  the 
most  aggravating  and  distressing 
manner  .  .  .  before  they  would  take 
the  sword  or  cimeter  to  smite  them" 
(Alma  27:29).  They  prostrated 
themselves  before  their  enemies, 
praising  God  the  while.  ''And  there 
was  not  a  wicked  man  slain  among 
them"  (Alma  24:27).  These  were 
the  kind  of  people  who  produced 
the  kind  of  sons  who  had  such  un- 
wavering faith  that  the  enemies' 
darts  were  powerless  to  kill  them. 
And  now,  years  later,  two  thou- 
sand of  their  sons  enlist  to  fight  the 
battles  of  their  oath-bound  parents. 
These  young  men  fought  in  many 
battles,  hard-fought  battles,  bloody, 
disastrous  battles,  and  not  one  son 
lost  his  life!  Has  anything  so  mirac- 
ulous ever  happened  before  or 
since?  All  around  them  were  their 
allies  falling,  dying  by  the  sword 
and  other  weapons;  all  around  them 
swords  were  slashing,  spears  were 
flying,  yet  not  one  of  them  to  die. 
"As  many  as  were  able  to  take  up 
arms"  came  into  this  special  little 
army.  Not  just  the  few  screened, 
top-flight,  spiritually  faithful  came. 
It  was  all  the  young  men  physically 
fit  and  of  sufficient  age  and  co-ordi- 
nated strength.  "And  they  were  all 
young  men"  (Alma  53:20).  These 
were  of  the  age  when  usually  there 
is  a  beginning  of  skepticism,  the 
natural  physical  urges  and  demands 
which  often  pull  young  men  away 
from  spiritual  hitching  posts,  but 
"they  were  exceedingly  valiant  for 
courage,  and  also  for  strength  and 
activity;  but  behold  this  was  not  all 
—they  were  men  who  were  true  at