[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social Science: Love — A Basic Ingredient | Author: John Farr Larson]
This state can easily become a family pattern passed from one generation to the next, and it ls, therefore, important that each family create now a wholesome, aftectional atmosphere. If properly applied, whatever our age, love prepares us to accept and meet stress in life's situations, as well as to avoid stress. We can accept economic problems as they come. Even the jealousy sometimes expressed by one child towards a newborn in the family can be lessened if we treat such expressions as a desire for reassurRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 ance in the parent's affection. Through love and understanding, such an event will not be a threat to the child's place in his parent's affection. Parents must consciously try to be impartial to all children in the home, in spending time with them and in other expressions of love, even though parents are naturally inclined to be fair and just. Love in the home can result in unlimited happiness, but the lack of love is disastrous. Harry Bakwin, writing in the October 1949 issue of Journal of Pediatrics, under the title, "Emotional Deprivation in Infants," states that: Infants under six months of age who have been in an institution for some time present a well-defined picture. The outstanding features are listlessness, emaciation, and pallor, relative immobility, quietness, unresponsiveness to stimuli like a smile or a coo, indifferent appetite, failure to gain weight properly despite ingestion of diets which are entirely adequate... Poor sleep, and appearance of unhappiness, proneness to febrile episodes.... Emotional deprivation in childhood has a tendency to "warp" the child. Children who have been deprived of normal parental love, when placed in the atmosphere of a normal home, are seen to blossom forth with new beauty of body and personality. 'The satisfactions thus obtained, of child and foster or adoptive parents, are reciprocal. Adults who are unloved become most miserable, sometimes mentally ill, and indulge in negative thoughts and attitudes which destroy the spirit of love. The Scope of Love The concept of love and its application is far more than affection LESSON DEPARTMENT running to and from those with close kinship. Love can be extended to all human relationships and to the relationship between man and God. (See John 3:16.) President George Albert Smith was a living example of the power of love and its expression. He was often heard to say: "We must love people into this Church," and there are many examples of his doing just that. The Savior urged his followers to love one another and said that by this characteristic his disciples would be known. A new commandment I give unto you, That you love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another (John 13:34-35). is love so important in all family relationships? Discuss its application and influence at the various age levels within the family group. 6. Why is the Relief Society a perfect organization for cultivating and_ spreading the spirit of love? 7. "Lasting Lessons in Spiritual Values," Olga Jones, National Parent-Teacher, April 1957, page 18. 8. "Baby's Demands and Parents' Desires,' Kent A. Zimmerman, M. D., National Parent-Teacher, April 1957, page 25. If "What Makes a Happy Home," Wilma Boyle Bunker, The Relief Society Magazine, February 1957, page 93. 10. "It Is Love," Gene Romolo, The Relief Society Magazine, February 1957, page 122. 11. "I Explore the Upstairs," Zipporah Layton Stewart, The Relief Society Magazine, February 1957, page 114. 12. "Mother," Dora Toone Brough, The Relief Society Magazine, February 1957, Page 79-