[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Fiction | Title: Elizabeth's Children | Author: Olive W. Burt]
Elizabeth's Children Olive W. Burt CHAPTER 1 FTER the funeral the family returned to Fred's ranch house, six cars full of them. The emotional strain of burying Elizabeth, eldest and best-loved sister, had left them all somewhat drained of feeling, and hungry. 'The neighboring ranch women had brought in great casseroles of food, kept hot in Elizabeth's big oven, cakes and pies and loaves of fragrant, homemade bread. Now Elizabeth's sisters and sisters-in-law bustled about, setting out the food and dishes, while the men gathered in small knots, talking in low tones. The visiting children, released from the solemnity of the preceding hours, scattered in play. All but Elizabeth's four, Carol noticed. They sat on the lower steps of the broad stairs in a small, disconsolate group, and watched the activity about them with wide, solemn eyes. Carol detached herself from the other women and went to the children. She put an arm around Trudy, the golden-haired four-yearold, and Becky, her six-year-old sister. The little girls snuggled against their aunt, longing for the comfort of motherly arms. Over their heads, Carol smiled gently at Kathy and Steve, whose efforts to be brave and calm were obvious in set lips and carefully controlled movements. "Shall we sneak out and take a little walk?" Carol asked. "I remember a place by the iver that is cool and green in the summer. It must be pretty now that the leaves Page 24 are turning. Ill make us a little lunch and we'll slip down there and eat it by ourselves. Okay?" Relief leaped into Kathy's eyes, dimmed instantly by doubt. "Will it be all right? Daddy said we ought to." "Your daddy won't care. I'll speak to him. You youngsters go upstairs and take off your nice clothes. Slip into everyday clothes and sweaters while I get the lunch ready." The four children scampered up the stairs and Carol smiled. It was the first quick, spontaneous movement she had seen them make since her arrival last night. Poor little tykes, she thought compassionately. They've had so much sympathy poured out upon them that they are drenched—sodden. [ll get them away by themselves for awhile. She spoke softly to their father, "Fred, I'm taking the children out for a little walk. 'They have to be alone." Fred nodded, his eyes clouded. "Thanks, Carol." He glanced across the room filled with people. "I'd like to slip away somewhere, myself." "T know, Fred," Carol's voice was sympathetic, "but they'll be going soon and then." "Then Ill be really alone—alone for the rest of my life." His tone was somber. "Not alone, Fred. You have the children." Before she could say more, her ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN brother Louis joined them. Carol turned and went into the kitchen. She began putting sandwiches together.: "What are those for, Carol?" her mother asked, watching her. CAROL looked at her mother. How she had aged in the past days! Elizabeth's death had put years upon that gray head. Elizabeth, her mother's darling and mainstay—the eldest child, who had stood beside her mother during the years of childbearing, taking over a large part of the care of each child as a new one came into the family. But, then, Elizabeth had married and gone away, and somehow—Carol never had known how—the eldest sister's mantle had fallen upon the youngest's shoulders. Somehow, it had slipped past the two brothers and the two sisters between, and lighted firmly upon Carol. "Tm going to take the children for a walk, Mother," Carol explained. "They don't feel like playing with their cousins and they're lost here among the grownups. I'm going to take them down to the river bank, where it's quiet." Her mother's sad eyes held memories. "Elizabeth loved the river," She began and stopped, her lips trembling. Carol went quickly and gave her mother's shoulders a hug. She bent and kissed the smooth brow. "We'll be back before dark. Don't worry about us." She thrust bottles of milk, sandwiches, fruit into the ample picnic basket and went to get an old blanket. Kathy, still solemn, but with eagerness in her dark eyes, was leading her small sisters downstairs. 23 Steve strutted ahead, aware of his eight-year-old importance. Carol handed Steve the blanket and picked up the picnic basket. They went out of the back door, and Carol felt the eyes of the other women upon het. She knew what they were thinking— there goes Carol, off on her own, as usual! Trudy and Becky had dashed ahead, and Kathy came to her aunt's side. "I'm glad we could come away, she said in her serious, trying-to-be-adult voice. "Becky and Trudy don't understand..." and the big sister's voice broke. Carol put her arm about the thin shoulders, "That's one thing to be grateful for, darling!" she whispered. They found the grassy spot Carol remembered. How often she had sought the peace of this little nook when she had come at Elizabeth's call for help. Now the gold and red of autumn-tinted trees made a splash of color, reflected back from the smooth water of the slowly moving stream. Across the small river, towering snow-capped against the blue Wyoming sky, the three sharp peaks of the Tetons stood like silent, everlasting sentinels. Carol's artist soul rejoiced in the exquisite coloring and the tranquil majesty of the scene. She spread the blanket and opened the lunch basket. 'The children were ravenous, for they, perhaps even more than their elders, had been drained by the experiences of the past days. They devoured sandwiches and milk and_ cake. When they had eaten all they could hold, they stretched out in the late afternoon sunlight, replete and quiescent. "Tell us a story, Aunt Carol Steve demanded.?! 26 What story? Carol thought swiftly. It should be something gentle and happy, but she couldn't think of one that suited her. So she made one up—a story about the valley and the mountains and the trappers who had loved the spot. She omitted the savagery and misery and death that had been suffered there, and the place emerged as one of happiness and beauty and the quiet pursuit of a way of life. HE sun was low when Carol finished, and the children stirred and got to their feet, ready now to go back to the house and the crowd of visitors.