[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Pray | Author: Stark]
[Pray Without Ceasing— First Prize Poem Helen Candland Stark]
[Prize-  vi/u 
[Prize-  vi/u 
like  a  beautiful,  unselfish  prayer.  We  too 
seldom  think  to  give  thanks  for  our  doc- 
tors, nurses,  teachers,  and  others  who  give 
so  much  service  to  the  world.  I  should 
also  like  to  comment  on  the  article  "Moth- 
er Had  Seven  Girls"  in  the  June  1957 
issue  of  the  Magazine.  My  mother  also 
had  seven  girls,  and  we  had  practically  the 
same  experiences  as  those  related  by  Sister 
Jennie  B.  Rawlins.  Six  of  us  still  remain, 
and  our  lives  and  homes  have  been  made 
richer  and  fuller  by  having  such  wonder- 
ful material  and  religious  training  in  our 
pioneer  home. 
— Mrs.  Aletha  Lowe  Hardy 
Franklin,  Idaho 
They  say  that  everything  comes  to  those 
who  wait,  and  sometimes  you  can  get  it 
a  little  quicker  if  you  go  after  it.  Well, 
for  years  I've  been  after  the  things  re- 
quired for  netting,  and  I  didn't  even  get 
to  first  base.  Now,  I  open  my  Magazine 
and  find  just  what  I  want  ("Netting  To- 
day," by  Olive  W.  Burt,  November  1957, 
page  750).  I  am  very  happy  that  the 
equipment  and  instructions  are  available. 
— Lenora  McAdam 
Vancouver,  B.  C. 
Canada 
A  few  years  ago  I  was  on  my  mission 
in  the  Central  Atlantic  States.  The  Relief 
Society  of  the  ward  sent  me  a  subscription, 
as  they  do  all  missionaries  from  this  area. 
Then  and  there  I  became  fully  aware  that 
the  Lord  was  inspiring  somebody  to  fill 
the  pages  of  that  Magazine  with  the  best 
literature  available.  I  studied  the  theology 
section  each  month  and  used  the  lessons 
with  our  investigators  with  the  best  of 
success.  I  can  truthfully  say  that  the 
Magazine  was  one  of  the  most  valuable 
sources  of  information  I  had  to  use  on 
my  mission.  .  .  .  Now  I  am  married  and 
ha\e  a  family.  I  remember  the  Magazine 
in  the  home  of  my  grandmother,  my 
mother,  and  other  relatives.  Now  it  is  in 
our  home.  We  would  feel  lost  without  it. 
—Dr.  Robert  G.  Tallcy 
La  Crescenta,  California 
ar 
For  the  past  few  months  I  have  been 
receiving  copies  of  The  KoiiQi  Society 
Magazine,  but  I  have  not  any  idea  at  all 
who  is  sending  them,  but  I  have  spent 
many  evenings  reading  the  interesting 
articles.  I  am  a  member  of  the  South 
London  Branch,  and  although  I  am  not 
a  member  of  Relief  Society,  I  am  very  inter- 
ested in  the  work  and  enjoy  learning  about 
the  activities.  The  article  I  enjoyed  most 
in  the  September  issue  was  "A  Temple 
Rises  in  New  Zealand,"  by  Wealtha  S. 
Mendenhall.  I  am  very  interested  in  ge- 
ography, so  any  article  about  a  foreign 
country  has  me  enthralled!  A  temple  is 
also  rising  in  England,  here  at  Newchapel, 
and  it  will  be  really  wonderful  for  us  all 
when  it  is  finished.  After  reading  about 
Relief  Society  work,  I  have  reassured  my- 
self that  I  will  become  a  member  when 
I  am  older,  as  I  am  only  fifteen  years  old, 
and  all  my  time  is  filled  up  with  school 
work  at  the  moment. 
— Margaret  Scrivener 
Putney,  London 
England 
Each  month  in  the  Central  American 
Mission,  twenty-one  Relief  Society  organ- 
izations, with  a  membership  of  300,  re- 
ceive the  Magazine.  The  sisters  are  grate- 
ful to  the  general  board  of  Relief  Society 
and  others  for  the  gift  subscriptions. 
Their  native  language  is  Spanish.  Only  a 
few  read  Enghsh.  However,  from  the 
pictures,  frontispieces,  covers,  Notes  From 
the  Field,  hobbies,  etc.,  they  get  an  in- 
sight into  Relief  Society  activities.  They 
see  other  Singing  Mothers  wearing  the 
uniform  dark  skirt  and  white  blouse;  other 
sisters  making  quilts,  doilies,  and  rugs.  The 
picture  of  my  mother,  Mrs.  Ella  J.  Cotter, 
in  the  August  issue,  with  her  lovely  quilts, 
pleased  them,  of  course.  They  noted  the 
fluff iness  of  the  quilts  and  the  radiance  of 
her  smile,  telling  them  that  life  is  full 
at  eighty-fi\e  years,  if  we  employ  our 
minds  and  hands  to  create.  The  Maga- 
zine truly  makes  for  world  sisterhood  in 
our  Church. 
— Gladys  K.  Wagner 
President 
Central  American  Mission 
Relief  Society 
Page  2

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Monthly   Publication   of   the   Relief   Society   of   The   Church   of   Jesus   Christ   of   Latter-day    Saints 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  GENERAL  BOARD 
Belle  S.   Spafford   
President 
Marianne  C.  Sharp   
First  Counselor 
Helen   W.    Anderson  -----  Second    Counselor 
Hulda  Parker   
-  Secretary-Treasurer 
Anna  B    Hart  Evon  W.  Peterson  Mildred  B.  Eyring  Elna  P.  Haymond 
Edith  S.  Elliott  Louise  W.  Madsen  Gladys  S.  Boyer  Annie  M.  Ellsworth 
Florence  J.  Madsen  Aleine  M.  Young  Charlotte  A.  Larsen         Mary  R.  Young 
Leone  G.  Layton  Josie  B.  Bay  Edith  P.  Backman  Mary  V.  Cameron 
Blanche  B.  Stoddard       Christine  H.  Robinson        Winniefred  S.  Aiton  W.   Hunt 
Alberta  H.  Christensen  Manwaring  Wealtha   S.    Mendenhall 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Editor          .____-------  Marianne  C.  Sharp 
Associate  Editor    Vesta  P.  Crawford 
General  Manager           -   
-           -           .  -         Belle  S.   Spafford 
VOL   45  JANUARY   1958  NO.   1 
e on  tents 
SPECIAL  FEATURES 
A  New  Year's  Greeting        1 
Women,   Wonderful   Women!    
 Spencer   W.    Kimball     4 
Award  Winners — Eliza   R.    Snow   Poem    Contest         9 
Pray  Without  Ceasing— First  Prize  Poem    Helen  Candland   Stark  10