[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Special Feature | Title: A New Year's Greeting]
A New Year's Greeting A! The beginning of another year, the General Board of Relief Society send love and greetings to their beloved sisters the world over.

Although we are not able to be with you in person, our thoughts, best wishes, and prayers are with you. As we pause to reflect upon the events of the past year, our hearts swell with gratitude and appreciation to our Maker for the gospel, for life, for family, for friends, and for the opportunity of actively participating in the great work of the Relief Society organization.

Activity in Relief Society brings joy and satisfaction which can be gained in no other way. It is the hope that many blessings and opportunities may come to those who continue in this gratifying work.

Nothing can now be added to the old year, but what of the New Year? How satisfying it is to have a new beginning—a new year—another day in which to start afresh. At this new beginning may we be determined to serve more fully, love more generously, and live more righteously—to merit the blessings of this life which are subordinate to those blessings of exaltation of the life to come. May we give to Relief Society our loyalty and a full measure of devotion in order that the Relief Society organization, as well as its individual members, may be the beneficiaries of the blessings of our Heavenly Father. May the year 1958 bring great joy and happiness into the lives of Relief Society members, and may their abiding testimonies of the divinity of Jesus Christ grow and become strengthened as they work unceasingly for the upbuilding of his kingdom here upon the earth—a living, driving conviction that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world, and that he gave his life for the salvation of mankind that we may have eternal life.

This is our most priceless possession. "For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life' (John 3:16).