[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Poem | Title: Doubt | Author: James]
[Doubt Not, Fear Not" Christine H. Robinson 55 Work Meeting: Savings and Added Happiness William F. Edwards 56 Literature: Macbeth. Villain or Hero? Briant S. Jacobs 58 Social Science: Love — A Basic Ingredient John Farr Larson 65 POETRY Perfect Prelude Mabel Law Atkinson 8 White With Silence Christie Lund Coles 21 Two Visitors Hazel M. Thomson 33 There Is a Winter Now Helen H. Winn 36 Poem for January Pansye H. Powell 40 Winter Evelyn Fields ted 41 Old Organ Ida Elaine James]
THAT  IF  THEY  DID  NOT  DOUBT, 
GOD  WOULD  DELIVER  THEM.  And 
they  rehearsed  unto  me  the  words  of  their 
mothers,  saying:  WE  DO  NOT  DOUBT 
OUR  MOTHERS  KNEW  IT  (Alma 
56:46-48).    (Gapitalization  the  author's.) 
The  Nephite  army  of  Antipus, 
deprived  of  their  commander,  and 
other  leaders  who  had  fallen,  was 
about  to  give  way  when  the  inspired 
youth  turned  on  their  pursuers  and 
closed  them  in  a  natural  vise.  The 
battle,  which  was  almost  surely  con- 
ceded for  the  huge  Lamanite  army, 
now  became  a  Nephite  victory. 
Fond  and  proud  Helaman  now 
took  inventory.  His  little  sons  had 
been  in  the  fierce  heat  of  the  battle 
where  blood  flowed  freely  and  death 
stalked  the  battlefield.  The  faith 
of  their  great  leader  hardly  measured 
up  to  that  of  the  boys  for  he  feared, 
''lest  there  were  many  of  them 
slain,"  but  to  his  great  joy  "NOT 
ONE  SOUL  OF  THEM  HAD 
FALLEN  TO  THE  EARTH;  YEA, 
AND  THEY  HAD  FOUGHT  AS 
IF  WITH  THE  STRENGTH  OF 
GOD;  yea,  never  were  men  known 
to  have  fought  with  such  miraculous 
strength;  and  with  such  mighty 
power  .  .  ."  (Alma  56:56).  (Capital- 
ization the  author's.)  "My  stripling 
Ammonites/'   the   great  leader  re-

WOMEN,  WONDERFUL  WOMEN! 
peated  over  and  over  as  he  delighted 
in  their  safety,  the  results  of  their 
goodness  and  their  faith. 
A  ND  now  sixty  more  of  the  young 
men  joined  the  stripling  sons 
and  Commander  Helaman  contin- 
ued his  praise.  As  the  rest  of  the 
army  was  about  to  gi\c  way  before 
the  enemy,  the  ''SONS"  were  firm 
and  undaunted. 
.  .  .  they  did  obey  and  observe  to  per- 
form c\ery  ^^■ord  of  command  with  exact- 
ness; yea,  and  even  according  to  their  faith 
it  was  done  unto  them;  and  I  did  remem- 
ber the  words  they  said  unto  me  THAT 
THEIR  MOTHERS  HAD  TAUGHT 
THEM  (Alma  57:21).  (Capitalization 
the  author's.) 
.  .  .  they  are  young,  and  their  minds  are 
firm,  and  they  do  put  their  trust  in  God 
continually   [Ihid.,  27). 
Why  did  these  stripling  Ammon- 
ite boys  act  as  one  with  such  un- 
paralleled  faith?  Why  could  these 
youngsters  face  a  great,  trained, 
well-equipped  army  of  enemy 
troops?  Why  did  these  2,060  lads 
march  without  fear  or  worry?  (Sixty 
more  had  joined  them.)  ''We  do 
not  doubt  our  mothers  knew  it," 
they  said,  and  they  knew  that  God 
would  deliyer  them  if  they  were 
faithful  and  they  knew  they  had 
been  obedient.  One  thousand  of 
their  allies  lay  dead  on  the  battle- 
field, 2,060  of  the  army  boys  had  re- 
ceiyed  wounds,  200  of  them  had 
been  hurt  enough  that  they  fainted 
for  loss  of  blood,  but,  true  to  the 
promise  of  their  mothers,  not  one 
had  died  in  the  skirmishes. 
Do  2,060  lads  automatically  de- 
velop this  superior  faith?  Has  there 
eyer  been  in  all  history  a  total  large 
group  of  young  men  so  spiritual? 
Surely,  in  eyery  age  there  haye  been 
individual  young  men  who  stood 
above  the  crowd,  who  acted  like 
men,  who  would  give  their  all  for 
a  cause,  but  was  there  ever  a  total 
group  of  all  who  were  able  to  take 
up  arms,  who  were  so  trusting  in 
God?  In  our  two  great  world  wars 
we  had  numerous  individual  young 
men  who  were  clean,  diligent,  pious, 
and  consecrated,  but  we  also  had 
those  who  did  not  uphold  the  stand- 
ards of  the  gospel.  Today,  in  the 
military  and  in  our  colleges  and  in 
industry  and  business,  we  have  noble 
individual  youth  certainly  equal  to 
the  sons  of  Helaman,  but  in  few, 
if  any,  communities  do  we  find  "all 
who  are  able  to  bear  arms"  in  that 
category. 
Do  sons  grow  strong  spontaneous- 
ly? Do  youth  become  spiritual  and 
remain  clean  and  virtuous  without 
training?  Could  it  be  that  there 
are  many  careless,  unclean,  irreli- 
gious youth  today  because  mothers 
fail  to  train?  The  stripling  sons  of 
the  former  dark-skinned  Lamanites 
were  superior  because  "...  they  had 
been  taught  by  their  mothers,  that 
if  they  did  not  doubt,  God  would 
deliver  them"  (Alma  56:47).  This 
teaching  is  not  a  single  sermon  but 
a  lifetime  of  example  and  precept. 
Here  were  mothers  who  loved  their 
sons  more  than  themselves,  more 
than  clothes,  or  entertainment,  or 
social  life,  or  business  life,  or  lux- 
uries. Here  were  women  who  gave 
themselves  to  their  families— time, 
energy,  effort,  mind,  and  soul.  Then 
came  the  dividends:  a  whole  com- 
munity of  righteous,  noble  sons  to 
sire  generations  of  people  so  full  of 
goodness  and  faith  that  it  was  to 
carry  over  through  centuries.  It  is 
highly  possible  that  some  of  the 
Nephitc    disciples   may   have   been

8  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1958 
the  sons  or  grandsons  of  these  per-  their  hves  in  their  famihes,  using  the 
fectly  trained  youth.     Quite  hkely  Church,   the  gospel   to   the  fullest 
that  their  descendants  were  among  extent  in  that  training? 
the  faithful  who  crowded  around  the  it  is  hardly  likely  either  that  the 
temple    and    heard    the    voice    of  community  of  mothers  of  2,060  sons 
Elohim  and  saw  the  Christ  and  felt  would  act  spontaneously  to  accom- 
the   wounds    in    the   body   of    the  piish  such  a  feat.    There  must  have 
Atoning  Sacrifice.  been    Priesthood    and    Auxiliaries. 
AND   the   thought   continues    to  There   must  have   been    preaching 
^  ring  over  and  over:  What  would  ^^^d  exhorting  meetings.  There  must 
be  the  condition  in  our  communi-  have   been    classwork   with    lessons 
ties  of  youths  if  the  modern  moth-  given,   and   activities  where   truths 
ers,  with  their  freedom  from  house-  were  taught  and  standards  set  up. 
hold  drudgery,  wealth  of  facilities.  No  mothers  can  hope  to  do  for  their 
increased  time,  and  greater  training,  children  alone  what  they  can  do  for 
were  to  concentrate  upon  the  train-  them  with  the  vehicles  which  the 
ing  of  their  children;  if  they  were  Church  gives  to  them, 
to  come  home  from  the  factory  and  If  women  are  less  successful  in 
the   office  and  the  schoolroom   in  their    prime    and    most    important 
those  years  when  children  are  in  the  calling    than    their    sisters    of    two 
home;  if  they  were  to  reduce  their  thousand  years  ago,  is  it  not  a  dif- 
social    obligations,    their    entertain-  ference  only  in  devotion,  consecra- 
ment,  and  selfish  diversions;  if  they  tion,    determination,    sacrifice,    un- 
were  to  dedicate  the  major  part  of  selfishness,   understanding,  and  pa- 
their  time  and  energies  and  powers  tience? 
to  the  creation  of  a  small  heaven  in  God  bless  the  women,  the  won- 
their  home,  total  co-operation  with  derful  women  of  every  time  and  age 
their  husbands,  and  a  limitless  de-  and    place,   who    establish    first    in 
votion,   teaching,   training,   leading,  their  lives  their  Lord,  his  work,  and 
developing  their  children;  investing  their  families. 
  ■  ♦ . 
[Perfect  LPreluae 
Mabel  Law  Atkinson 
I  never  knew  the  mellowed  years  could  hold 
A  sweeter  rapture  than  the  hours  of  youth; 
That  every  shadow  would  be  fringed  with  gold, 
And  meditative  leisure  crowned  with  truth. 
I  always  knew  that  ripened  fruit  must  fall 
And  amber  grain  be  gathered  in  the  sheaf, 
But  never  dreamed  the  harvest  best  of  all; 
That  gentle,  quiet  days  could  be  too  brief. 
For  beauty  lingers  on  the  twilight  trail; 
Companions  journey,  hand  in  hand,  their  eyes 
Seeing  the  light  ahead  that  does  not  fail, 
Illume  the  opening  gates  to  paradise. 
I  never  knew  the  mellowed  years  could  be 
The  perfect  prelude  to  eternity.