EDITORIAL . Motto  Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. V. August, 1918. No. 8. THE RETURN OF THE JEWS. No people on the earth, with the exception of the Present Jews themselves, have more cause for rejoicing Condition of and see more clearly the hand of the Lord in the Jerusalem, redemption of Jerusalem from the oppression of the Gentile Turk, than do the Latter-day Saints. Our own promises, prophecies and glorious future would be impossible of fulfilment without the redemption of Jerusalem and the return of the Jews to that land. How the Prophet Joseph Smith and Apostle Orson Hyde must rejoice in the heavens over the present condition in Jerusalem! Elder Hyde was called upon a mission by the Dedication Prophet to go to Jerusalem and dedicate that of the land upon the Mount of Olives, for the opening Holy Land, up of this last dispensation for the Jews. In Elder Hyde's report to the Twelve, dated at Trieste, January 2, 1842, he says: It was by political power and influence that the Jewish nation was broken down and her subjects dispersed abroad, and it will be by political power and influence that they will be gathered and built up;" and further, "that England is destined, in the wisdom and economy of heaven, to stretch forth the arm of political power and advance in the front ranks of this glorious enterprise." 
 Again, on page 21, in the prayer that was offered by Brother Hyde on the Mount of Olives, on the 24th of October, 1841, you will find the statement that he had gone there for this purpose  "to dedicate and consecrate this land for the gathering together of Judah's scattered remnants, according to the predictions of the holy prophets, for the building up of Jerusalem again, after it has been trodden down by the Gentiles so long, and for rearing a temple in honor to Thy name." On the same page, in the prayer, is this utterance: "Let that nation or that people who shall take an active part in behalf of Abraham's children, and in the rising up of Jerusalem, find favor in thy sight. Let not their enemies prevail against them, neither let pestilence nor famine overcome them, but let the glory of Israel overshadow them and the power of the Highest overthrow of those whothem." protect There take the also a prayer for the other is side. Later. President George A. Smith, Presiding Prayer. Jent Lorenzo Snow and our honored Eliza R. Snow, with a party, went back to Jerusalem and again offered prayer upon the Mount of Olives. While in very recent times our beloved PresPresident Lund ident Anthon H. Lund also visited the Holy on Mt. of Olives. Land and again prayed upon the Mount of Olives. The heart thrills as we read in the daily The Day press accounts of crowding Jewish battallions of Promise led by Jewish officers, going out from England and the United States in the armies of the Allies, to Judea and Mesopotamia; of Jewish gold shed in countless showers over this war of restoration; of companies of Jewish agriculturists and engineers following in the soldiers' wake; of Jewish hopes to rebuild their age-long expected temple once again on Mount Zion! All this belongs of right to Judah and to them, and through them to us, as we are of Ephraim. That great and glorious day of promise sung of by our Jewish convert Alexander Neibaur has come at last, and the Prince of Peace will soon reign over Israel and all the tribes of earth. God speed the happy day! Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in September. BOOK OF MORMON LESSON. A PEOPLE OF PROMISE, THE JEWS. In the 20th chapter of III Nephi, Christ in his ministry among" the Nephites reminds the people, to whom he is speaking, that they are the children of Israel, and as such are heirs to all the promises made to their fathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. He tells them that the Father hath commanded him that he should give unto them this land. He tells them that after the promises to the Gentiles have been fulfilled he will turn to the remnants upon this land and establish them. "And behold this people will I establish in the land unto the fulfiling of the covenant that I made with your father Jacob; and it shall be a New Jerusalem, and the power of heaven shall be in the midst of this people; yea, even I will be in the midst of you." (Ill Nephi, par. 16.) From the very first we have realized that we had on this land of promise also a people of promise. What that shall mean in the days that are to come we may perhaps best learn by analogy; for we have left to us, despite our lack of knowledge in relation to many of the tribes of Israel, both Judah and Ephraim. Our next lesson refers to the war work of Judah, a work in which Ephraim is likewise distinguished, to the extent that opportunity has come to her. It is the purpose of this lesson to bring to our notice some of the other achievements of both Judah and Ephraim, for truly both Judah and Ephraim, are beginning to show forth in mighty power in the earth. We turn to Judah first because he has been scattered far and wide over the nations of the earth, and numbers today about thirteen million in all. Great Britain has always been noted for statesmen and statesmanship, and yet there are eminent judges who declare Disraeli to have been the greatest Prime Minister Great Britain ever had. 
 It is said that even Bismarck declared in relation to the solving of a vexing international problem, "the Jew is the man." It is almost trite to refer to the leadership of the Jew in finance, and yet it is equally as impossible not to mention him. For many, many years governments have been borrowing money from the great Jewish money lenders, while the Jews in their turn have done more than their "bit" in helping to finance great government projects. Breat Britain has sought to pay America the greatest compliment she had in her power by sending her Lord Chief Justice as ambassador. But Lord Reading, as well as being an eminent judge, is also a Jew, and thus reminds us that we have upon the Supreme Bench of the United States another Jew, Judge Brandeis. We can only cite a few instances here, but they will serve to illustrate the facts. Bergson, whose philosophy was at high tide, distinctly in the lime light, when the present war broke out, is of Jewish extraction. The Jews are conspicuous among the noted physicians of the world. In the famous hospital in Vienna are many noted Jews.A young man of one of our southern towns told me that at the New England Conservatory of Music, there were five competitors for the violin solo prize one season, and that of these five, four were Jews, one a Latter-day Saint. In the world of composers there were Rubenstein and Mendelssohn. Today, among thousands, is Mischa Elman and Galli Curci. In the year 1910, the prima donna of the Vienna opera was a Jewess, the chief actor in the Royal Theatre, a Jew, the chief music critic in Vienna, a Jew, and the great pianist Godowski, a Jew. One night the Royal Opera put on a ballet. "The Snow Man," composed by a little Jewish boy of twelve years of age. The Jews dominate the managerial and business end of every great opera house and theatre in the world today. In the drama there were Rachel and Bernhart, both great Jewish. actresses. Both Frohmans are Jews, and so practically are all the great and small managers of both the drama and the motion picture industry. Then, too, in the field of journalism the Jew is a past grand master. It is really amazing that so many of the great and influential newspapers of Europe are owned and edited by Jews, while we have our own Jewish poet, Alexander Neibaur. We have written something of the supremacy of the Jew in the world of finance, letters, art, medicine, statesmanship and philosophy a story that might find many duplicates in every walk of life, had we time and inclination to furnish the facts, but we feel GUIDE LESSONS. 473 we have said enough to establish our first declaration in relation to Jewish leadership and distinction. Perhaps the thought is coming to many of us that all people are capable of making an array of talent, which is quite true; but that which we insist upon in relation to the Jew is that his talent and leadership are all out of proportion to his numerical strength. Now let us turn to Ephraim, a mere handful gathered in the heart of the Rocky Mountains, in number something over half a million. Joseph Smith, their inspired leader, under the guidance of the Lord Jesus, builded a city on the banks of the Mississippi that was a marvel and a wonder to all who saw it. He set the pattern in statesmanship and pioneering as he did in all other spiritual and temporal matters. The march across the continent, the founding of a state, the laying out of Salt Lake City, the building of a tabernacle, tempie and theatre in Salt Lake City are achievements that must always bring to our minds that mighty man of action and of power, Brigham Young. When we think of Brigham Young we always think of him as the builder of a mighty commonwealth; and when we think of his children and grandchildren we think of a group having exceptional talent in art lines, with an unusual number of musicians, particularly Lucy Gates in music and Mahonri Young in sculpture, who are both international art figures. We have a Utah genius in John Browning, the inventor. Is it not a matter of more than passing note that his inventions should be selected by the Government in this crisis? Was it only an accident, do you think, that Hon. George Q. Cannon in pioneer days and now Hon. Reed Smoot should have such power in the Senate, practically making Utah mighty in legislative halls? Is it not a matter of distinct pride that not only Lucy Gates, but Florence Jepperson, J. J. McClellan, Antony C. Lund, and Arthur Shepherd should hold the cultured centers of our land as they have done now for a decade? There are a few blocks in the Twentieth Ward, in Salt Lake, that have given to us five artists of note. Dr. Albert E. Winship wrote that he had been all over the United States, but that Utah county could boast more artists and musicians to the square mile than any other county he had been in, most of them attracted by the famous B. Y. U. to that educational Mecca. Today, Latter-day Saints boys are teaching in colleges from the Eastern to the Western coasts. It is said there are more persons amohg the Latter-day Saints holding degrees from standard 
 colleges than from any other Church in the United States. Dr. John clesA. as theWidtsoe stands Western most famous supreme teacher. in United States educational cirThe vital statistics published by the Church sets her apart and distinguishes her above all states. Judah and Ephraim are coming to their own, no matter how far they may be from full fruition. They are both lights set upon a hill that cannot be hid. The remnants of the Lamanites are still in bondage, but just as surely will their hour strike as the hour has struck for Judah and Ephraim, for they are of Israel and Israel is a people of promise. We have a distinguished Indian half-breed, John Galbraith, who belongs to the Alberta stake. Many persons living in Central and South America, upon the isles of the sea, and having close contact with the American Indian, remark their talents. These things which they now observe are but the dawn of that glorious day of promise that shall not fail to be theirs in the Lord's own due time. No book gives greater and clearer emphasis to the fact that God's promises cannot fail than the divinely inspired volume with which we are dealing, the Book of Mormon. QUESTIONS. 1. From which branch of the house of Israel did the Nephites and Lamanites descend? 2. Discuss some of the promises made to the children of Israel. 3. Why i.s it fair to conclude that God, who is fulfiling his promises to Judah and Ephraim, will do likewise to the remnant of the Lamanites still found upon the earth? 4. How many Jews are to be found in the world? 5. Name some Jews prominent in the world of finance? 6. Name some Jew or Jewess who has attained distinction in some line of achievement not mentioned in the lesson. 7. What city was builded on the banks of the Mississippi River under the leadership of Joseph Smith? 8. What is the approximate number of the Latter-day Saints at this time? 9. How do we know that most of the Latter-day Saints are of Ephraim? 10. Tell of some worthy achievements of Latter-day Saints. 11. Name some of her men and women who have achieved distinction in the world of letters and as orators. GUIDE LESSONS. 
 Work and Business. Second Week in September. LESSON III. Genealogy. Third Week in September. Realizing the fact that some of our sisters have felt discouraged concerning the somewhat difficult and technical lessons given on Surnames for the past two years; and realizing also that others have felt almost justified in setting aside these lessons for the more attractive and really essential work which we are now doing for the Red Cross, the Genealogical Committee of the General Board sent a letter of inquiry to President Anthon H. Lund and General Board of the Genealogical Society of Utah, asking their opinion concerning our genealogical studies for next year. Apostle Joseph F. Smith, Jr., answered our letter, in behalf of the Board. Read the following impressive letter, sisters, and resume your studies with renewed zeal and determination to let nothing prevent us from the glorious work which we have undertaken to redeem the dead without which this people would be rejected: communication. The Genealogical Society of Utah, Historian's Office, 49 E. South Temple St. Sister Susa Young Gates, and members of the Genealogical Committee, General Board of the Relief Society, Dear Sister: Answering your letter of the 14th inst., in behalf and at the suggestion of President Lund and Board of Directors of the Genealogical Society of Utah, I will say that we are very greatly pleased with your labors in instructing the sisters of the Relief Society, in matters pertaining to genealogy and fully appreciate the great work that has been accomplished through your organization. We feel that it would be a deplorable thing should you, for any cause, discontinue the work in this direction. For we consider 
 the work in the interest of the salvation of the dead, (and that of course embraces the research work in genealogy and the knowledge of compiling records,) as the most important labor with which we have to do. We therefore pray you that your efforts do not slacken, for we hope to see the spirit of temple work and record making grow, until it shall find a permanent place in the hearts and lives of all the Latter-day Saints. Again expressing our appreciation, and praying for your continuous success, I remain, Very Respectfully your Brother, (Signed) Joseph F. Smith, Jr., In behalf of the Board. SURNAME BOOK. 1. The Universal Appeal of Genealogy. (1) To the individual. (b) To the family. (c) To the race. 2. Its Vital Necessity to the Latter-day Saints. (a) Impossible to redeem unknown progenitors. (b) Regular system in the study of ancestry. (c) The evolution of the surname in the history of the family and the race. 3. Racial History an Adjunct to Surname Study. (a) The place of birth constitutes nationality. (b) Nations grow out of each other. (c) All peoples merge finally in the three sons of Noah. (d) It is important for Saints to know how and where their tribes and races met and mingled if they are to become saviors upon Mount Zion. 4. The Need of a Surname Book. (a) No printed surname books are now on the market. (b) Our own book. SUGGESTIVE NOTES TO ASSIST CLASS LEADERS. Why should we study surnames? Because genealogy lies at the root of salvation for the dead, and surname history lies at the root of genealogy. 1. It is interesting to each individual to know about himself. (a) One's own origin and beginnings.