[Vol32 | November 1945 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: You Are Wrathall]

ILLUSTRATIONS BY BETTI WILLIAMSON You Are Never Alone Norma Wrathall 
IT was a golden afternoon in late September of the year 1863 that Zina Gleason and her sixteen-year-old daughter Millicent sat on the south porch of the rock house, peeling fall apples for drying. Already the boards, stretched between sawhorses, were filled with fruit, and row it was time for the little girls, Hope, eight years old, and Ruth, six, to clamber up to the flat-roofed shed, and lay the quartered apples in neat rows in the sun.
Zina's dark braids, wound about her head, lent dignity to the calm pallor of her face, and there was serenity even in the sure movements of her strong hands, swiftly at work. Her sweet lips, firm from the discipline of pioneer life, curved only faintly as she smiled and spoke to her daughter.
"Don't lag now, Millie. We've only a few more."
Millicent sighed, and pushed a stray wisp of hair from her warm forehead. "Mama," she said, "won't we ever be through? I feel as if I never wanted to see another apple again. Why do we have to put by so much fruit, anyway?" The freckles stood out on her flushed cheeks.
"You know why, goose. And we're almost through. I'm saving the rest of my sugar for grape jelly. We can be proud of our cellar filled with jars, and of the dried fruits and vegetables in the attic. You've been a real help to me this summer, Millie."
"You can be proud?I'm just tired," sighed the girl, resuming her work. "Mama, how did papa ever manage to get such a large ranch as this?seems like a smaller one would have done, and then we wouldn't have had so much work."
Zina's lips twitched as she answered, for the girls had heard the story time after time, and never seemed to tire of it. "Your father came to this valley as a boy, to herd cattle for one of the ranchers. And his only possession was a fine race horse, a gift from his uncle. He traded this horse for his first five acres of land. Now he owns hundreds of acres, one of the finest cattle ranches in the valley, and you know how proud he is of his horses."
"Yes, especially the pair of bays he drives to Church every Sunday," Millie giggled. "Last Sunday, when Mr. Peterson beat papa driving down Main Street, papa said it was because a gnat flew in Daisy's eye, and put her off her pace for a second."
Zina smiled, remembering the triumphant Mr. Peterson stroking his dark whiskers, while Jacob's reddish moustache bristled in annoyance. Her gray eyes gazed proudly out across the yard, bright with goldenrod, to the fields and pastures beyond where Jacob's cattle grazed?"the land of a thousand springs," the Donner party had called it.
Ruth came scampering from the shed, her sister following, swinging a pan. "Mama, there's a cloud of dust down the road?do you think it's papa?"
ZINA stood up, dumping the rest of her apples into Millie's pan. "We'll stew the rest of these for supper. No, I don't think it's papa. He said he wouldn't be back from town much before dark." She began lowering the water bucket into the built-up well on the porch.
"Maybe it's Indians! Oh, mama, if it is, will you get anything?" Hope began jumping up and down with excitement.
The little girls ran out to the big gate, and in a few minutes came running back just ahead of two squaws. The younger squaw, with a papoose strapped to her back, was unknown to Zina, but she was well acquainted with old "Indian Mary," expert in making woven baskets of native reeds. Hope, suddenly shy, peeped out from behind her mother at the black-eyed papoose, while Zina bargained with the squaws, giving butter, sugar, and some dried fruit in exchange for the mending basket, light and firm in her hands, and smelling faintly of wood smoke.
The usually silent squaws chattered strangely in their own tongue as they went away, and Zina frowned with annoyance as they jabbered and pointed at things about the place. Indians were getting downright brazen nowadays, she considered. Some of them were said to be outlaws and out beggars, and the ranchers' wives had been warned of thieving old Nowans, who came begging and stealing when women and children were alone. But then, you couldn't wonder at it, she thought, as she busied herself getting apples at work. Skull Valley Indians were very poor,
and in bad seasons had hardly enough to eat.
As she worked, she smiled and talked to the baby who lay in the hand-carved cradle which Jacob had made before Millie was born. It was fine to be living in the new two-story rock house, with its two wide porches, convenient well, and cupboards built clear up to the ceiling in the kitchen. The two-room, battle-dotted log cabin of frontier days seemed poor by comparison.
But the baby slept in his cradle, the oil lamps were lighted, and supper dried in the warming oven by the time Jacob returned, laden with parcels. He gave Zina a resounding kiss, causing her pale cheek to color faintly. Jacob was a heavy-set man, his skin ruddy from outdoor life, his tireless energy sparkling in his blue eyes and bristling in his reddish whiskers.
Zina drew back. "Jacob, the children . . ." "Then she saw someone with him.
"I brought Wilmer home with me?got some supper for us?" Jacob was saying, genially.
ZINA welcomed the scout, Wilmer M. Dee, who was dressed in picturesque shirt and trousers trimmed with fringe.
"Mr. Dee, did an Indian make your suit?" asked Ruth, wide-eyed, marveling as he nodded.
It was as they ate the good supper of stewed dried corn, home-cured ham, cottage cheese, and cool milk which Zina kept immoderately fresh in the springhouse, that Jacob made his abrupt announcement. "Guess you'll have to get along without me for a few days, Zin. We're driving out to Lakeside with the cattle early

in the morning. YOU ARE NEVER ALONE 681
Wilmer's going part way to help us get started. We want to get an early start. Peterson's going out, too, with his outfit. He thinks he can beat us with that string of no-good nags of his." He put his hand to his moustache to hide a grin. "Looked to me like he had a pretty good outfit? chuckled Wilmer, "as a matter of fact, Mrs. Gleason, Fm just going as far as the Point of the Mountain."
Zina glanced up in surprise. "Out to Lakeside? Isn't this earlier than usual?" She thought that a fleeting glance passed between the two men, and Jacob answered slowly, "We-1-11, no. Not for this season. The Indians say we're going to have an early winter, and so we might as well get the stock settled. It'll mean more than one trip out, best we can do." "Mr. Dee, how did you learn to talk Indian language?" put in Milli-cent, "And what is it they call you, tell us, please?" Mr. Dee's quietly twinkling eyes became sober, and the creases deepened in his lean, deeply tanned cheeks. "It's a story I seldom tell," he began slowly, "because, you see, many people would not believe it? but I'll be glad to tell it to you folks." "I've heard you have a wonderful power over the Lamanites," murmured Zina, unconsciously using the scriptural name. "It came about in this way," began Dee, "as you know, I've had lots of dealings with the Indians, as a guide and scout for many years. But for a long time, I was handicapped by not knowing their language. You know how an Indian talks our language, a few grunts and one or two words." He paused, and somehow even the children had become very quiet in the mellow lamplight. "Well," he continued, "I made it the subject of prayer.
Night after night I prayed for the power to understand our red brethren. But nothing happened. Then, one time, I went into the hills with team and wagon for wood. My companion, who was helping me, was a young Indian who knew scarcely a word of English. Finally, it was his turn to sit at the front of the wagon and drive the team while I rested. I dozed off to sleep." Mr. Dee's voice became softly husky as he continued, "It was a wonderful thing. I could hardly believe my own ears. But when I awoke, that young Indian asked me a question and I answered him in his own tongue."
They were all quiet for a moment, then Ruth piped up, "But what is it they call you, Mr. Dee?" "Well, the nearest they can come to pronouncing Wilmer M. Dee, is 'Widdem-e-dee." " Everyone smiled, and the talk turned to plans for the morning. As Jacob bade her good-bye before daylight next morning, Zina felt a sense of foreboding.
Accustomed to staying alone at the ranch with the children, she felt a strange loneliness, as she stood on the porch and heard the hoofbeats of the horses die away. She shivered when a coyote howled in the distance.
Then she turned quickly back to the warm, lighted kitchen. SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 It was the third day after Jacob had gone that Ike Harrison brought fresh meat from his butcher shop in RELIEF town, as was his custom at certain intervals. The little girls ran out to meet him, gathering bunches of grass for his white mare, which, as far back as they could remember, had been as weary and woebegone as now. IKE was a skinny little man, with a short white goatee which he had to stroke before giving any kind of an answer.
Zina selected the meat she wanted from his canvas-topped wagon, while Ike stood shooing away the swarm of flies which always gathered, though the meat was clean enough under layers of heavy paper and cool leaves. It was after he had eaten his customary piece of pie that he asked, "Heard about the Indian trouble, ma'am?"
Zina raised her eyebrows. "Indian trouble?
That sounds like frontier days. Are you sure, Ike?" Ike stroked his goatee thoughtfully. 'Tep.
Seems there's been a renegade band come in?been rus-tlin' cattle from the ranches?some trouble maker's stirred them up with talk about the white man stealing the Indians' range.
Guess that's why your husband and Peterson have taken their cattle out to Lakeside already.
Better be careful out here all alone. Well, I've got to be on my way.
Good day, and thank ye kindly, ma'am."
Zina frowned thoughtfully as she watched him drive away, slapping at the indifferent old mare with the harness lines. She hardly believed his story; and yet, why had Jacob and Mr. Dee looked at each other in that odd way when she asked if it was early in the season for Lakeside? And suddenly, she remembered the strange behavior of the two squaws. Had they known of trouble afoot?
Then she shook herself.
Surely there was nothing to fear.
That night the baby had croup, and Zina trailed wearily up and down stairs getting water hot for steam, and warming flannels. At last she lay down beside him on her bed, and was almost immediately asleep herself. It was still dark when something wakened her. She leaned up on her elbow and listened, but the house was quiet to her straining ears, with only the crowing of an early rooster breaking the deep silence. She lay down again, and was just beginning to doze, when she jerked suddenly awake. Her heart hammered in her ears. Was that a sound from the kitchen? She remembered that she had left the outside door unbolted when she had gone to the well for water. It was several moments before she could put her feet to the cold floor, slip into her flannel wrapper, and creep cautiously downstairs. CAREFULLY, she pushed open the stair door, and peered into the. Kitchen. There, in the half light, she saw an Indian bending over her sugar can, his black hair stringing about his neck, and his body bare above the waist. She exerted all her power to keep from screaming, and the suppressed sound seemed to swell and throb in her throat.
Above her panic, words began to form in her mind?there's nothing to be afraid of?it looks like old Novaris?and he's stealing my sugar.
YOU ARE NEVER ALONE 683
The sound of scraping on the bottom of the can enraged her-the sugar, saved carefully for the grape jelly! She put out her hand and encountered the long buggy whip with which Jacob urged his bays to even faster trotting.
Seizing it, she pushed open the door. "Novaris, get out of my sugar!" she called, brandishing the whip.
Then her knees turned to water as she saw the startled, evil face of a strange Indian! One thought was uppermost in her whirling brain-to get him out of the house. "Get out?get out?get out of here?" she heard her voice loud above the hammering of her heart. She wondered afterward just what caused the Indian to turn and run from the kitchen, leaving the sugar in a thin white trail across the floor. She slammed the door after him, but all at once, her arms were so weak she could hardly lift the heavy bolt into position. At last the door was fast, and she could sink to a chair, covering her face with her hands. "Mama, what's the matter?" Millie's warm young hand on her shoulder calmed Zina's trembling.. "Nothing?nothing?just an old Indian stealing my sugar?" she tried to sound matter-of-fact, "but sh?don't waken the children?"
With shaking hands, Zina began winding the dark braids about her head.
Millicent had gone to the window. She gasped, "Mama. Look.
Come here ?quick?"
Never in all her life was Zina able to forget the sight which met her eyes, and long afterward, she would waken in the night and grow cold thinking of it. In the gray dawn light, she could see the dark line of Indians on horseback threading their way quietly down the drive-lane, and toward the lower pasture, where the remaining cattle were kept. "Mama-what'll we do?" Milli-cent's terrified whisper was loud in the silent room.
Zina put her arm around her daughter. Her mind whirled with remembered stories of Indian atrocities, of burned homes, stolen livestock, even?but she dared not finish the thought. ? "They've come to steal the stock ?maybe the rest of the cattle and horses?" "Mama, mama!
They might burn down the house.
They might take us and "Sh?sh?We'll think of something?we'd better dress. But don't make a light?it might attract their attention toward the house. Oh, if only the children will stay asleep?" Trembling, hurrying, they dressed, glancing fearfully out the window at the Indians, now gathered in a group in the lower yard, their dark backs and brightly-colored feathered headdresses plainly visible in the increasing light.
Zina spoke softly, drawing her daughter down beside her. "Do you remember what Brigham Young has taught the people??'In all your troubles, remember that you are never alone?the Lord will hear you if you ask him earnestly.' Kneel with me, Millicent?Dear Father in heaven, please give me strength in this hour of need, and please, please, send us deliverance?" AS they rose from their knees, there was a terrific shout from the yard, and the sound of milling hoofs. Then, above it, came the thin wail of the baby from upstairs, and the two frightened little girls came running to find their mother. In  confusion, trying to quiet their crying, Zina momentarily forgot her own fear. Presently, she held up her hand. "Listen?the noise in the yard has stopped?" "Mama! Do you think the Indians have gone?" "Well, if they have, they've probably-" There was a sudden loud knock at the door. Zina's heart came up into her mouth, and the baby puckered up his face to cry again at the expression on his mother's face.
Drawing a deep breath, Zina opened her mouth to call out, but no sound came.
There was another terrific knock, and then a voice, "Hello?you all right in there, Mrs. Gleason?" "Oh, thank Heaven-Mr. Dee-" Somehow, her fingers fumbling weakly, she unbolted the door, but not until he came in and helped her to a chair did she realize that tears were running down her cheeks. The children, who had been staring in stupefaction, suddenly set up a clamor. "Where's the Indians, Widdem-e-dee? Did you drive 'em away?? Where's papa?" He held up his hand, "One at a time, now. I came in from the Point of the Mountain day before yesterday, and heard the mutterings around town about Indian troubles. Of course, Mrs. Gleason, we knew there was something wrong when we started the cattle out so early in the season, but never did we think anything like this would happen. Well, I was talking to old Ike Harrison in the butcher shop, about you being out here alone?early this morning, just before daylight. I took a notion to ride out here.
Good thing I did." "But the Indians? Did you?" asked Zina. I've?been out there talking to them. As you know, I never carry a gun; it's the best way. They've agreed to wait here until the ranchers return. I think it can all be settled. We've sent a rider out to tell them to hurry in from Lakeside."
That evening, after supper, as Jacob relaxed with a child on each knee, he said, "Well, we made it-thanks to Dee. He certainly does know how to handle Indians?and incidentally?" he stroked his moustache to hide a grin, "we got in just a shade ahead of Peterson's outfit."
Then his face became sober. "But your mother's a brave woman, staying out here, facing danger alone with you children."
Zina looked up from her work. Her gray eyes met his steadily, and the firm lips curved only faintly to smile. Slowly, she shook her head. "No, Jacob.
Never alone," she murmured.
Wilt thou, our Heavenly Father, let thy presence be felt here always, that all who assemble here may realize that they are thy guests and that this is thy house.