[Vol32 | November 1945 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: And For Eternity Chapter Burt]
Jeff would understand; he would help her cover up the way Hugh had deserted her. JEFF went on, almost desperately, "I can't help loving you, Delsa. I've tried to help it and I can't.
Since you've been coming in to look after the children, what was just deep affection has grown into ardent love. But don't worry, darling, please. Now that you know, maybe you won't mind? maybe you'll overlook-"
AND FOR ETERNITY 689
Delsa turned to him and laid her hand on his arm. "Jeff," she whispered, softly, and before either of them knew what was happening Jeff had her in his arms, holding her close, his cheek pressed deeply against the soft luster of her hair. "Darling! Darling! Darling!" he whispered, but he didn't raise her face to his, nor try to kiss her.
Delsa stood quiescent in the circle of Jeff's arms. She wanted to put her arms around him, to lift her face to his lips, to say, Jeff I?m lonely ?and I am alone.
Love me, Jeff; heal the wound Hugh has made." But she couldn't do that. Up to this minute Jeff and all her world had thought she was betrothed to Hugh. How could she say suddenly, 'It's all right? I've just been keeping it a secret, but Hugh and I are no longer engaged.
Hugh wants to marry someone else." If Jeff wouldn't be shocked out of his love for her, he would at least be doubtful of her honesty. He would not be able to comprehend her silence, her deviousness. At last, Jeff's arms dropped from around her and he stood back, silent and contrite. "You're lonely, Jeff," Delsa said miserably, "and I'm lonely. And Fm to blame.
Coming to the house, being with the children, I've reminded you?" Somehow Delsa's lips wouldn't go on. She was suffering at the thought that she was merely a reminder of his dead wife. JEFF shook his head slowly. "No, Delsa," he said. "Let's not fool ourselves. I am lonely, lonelier now than I have ever been. But you do not remind me of anyone or anything. You are you, Delsa, and I love you?not because of a memory, but because of a dream of what might some, day be."
They were at her gate now, and Delsa said soberly, "I am lonely, too, Jeff. I am so lonely that I would find it easy to take comfort in your arms. But I won't do it. You're too good for that, Jeff?you're too good for what I could offer you. Let's forget what you have said and be good friends, just as we were." He said, "I can't forget, but I will let you." "Maybe I'd better stop coming into your house so freely as I have done-" "And make the babies suffer for my clumsiness? No, Delsa, come, please. I'll keep out of your way." He laughed a little bitterly. "Go in; darling. Go to bed and dream of Hugh and when you awaken in the morning, think of this as part of a dream?a dream fostered by the warm spring breeze and the smell of growing things and the madness that comes with the awakening of the earth." She went up the walk and onto the porch. At the door she turned ahd Jeff was still standing there in the moonlight, watching her. She shut the door softly, and was glad that she was indoors and out of the reach of the spring night.
