[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | January | Issue: 13 | Title: FANCY’S GREETING. | Author: [COLUMN 1]]

FANCY’S GREETING. 

In the voice of the great roaring billows,
	Rolling in from the land far away—
In the whispering sound of the palm leaves,
	Being stirred by the breezes at play—
In the note of the bird as it twitters
	To its mate that is soaring above:
We imagine we hear a fond message
	From home—a sweet message of love.

In the low, rippling song of the brooklet—
	In the hurrying buzz of the bee—
In the chirp of the cricket at night-fall—
	In the echoes from over the sea—
In the patter of rain-drops so gentle,
	Which the clouds in their mercy let through:
In fancy we hear loving voices
	Call, “A glad, merry Christmas to you.”

On the beautiful gold of the moon beams—
	On the soft, fleecy clouds in the sky—
On the blue that lies smiling beyond them—
	On the stars that are beaming on high—


On the face of all glorious Nature,
	These words to my vision appear:
“We wish you a bright, merry Christmas
	And a prosperous, happy New Year.”

Let the song that is sung by the fireside—
	Let the tones of the organ that swell—
Let the jingling of silvery sleighbells—
	And the youth’s merry laughter as well—
Let the snow as it falls in great masses
	From the tree with its branches wide-spread,
Or floats like soft down from the heavens,
	Whisper back these fond words in my stead.

May the pictures that smile from their hangings,
	Or on frost painted windows appear—
May the fanciful forms in the fire-light—
	May the rays of the sun bright and clear—
May each image—each fancy that greets you—
	Bear this message from far o’er the blue:
That we, though far off in the tropics,
	Wish a glad, merry Christmas to you.

When the gray of the morning is dawning—
	When the sun slowly rises on high—
We’ll imagine the angels are bearing
	Our message of love through the sky;
We'll imagine once more they are singing,
	And that this welcome chorus we hear:
“We wish you a bright, merry Christmas
	And a prosperous, happy New Year.”
								ALOFA.
Samoa, Dec. 5th, 1892.


[COLUMN 1]
