EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"The Children's Book" by Augusta Joyce
Crocheron is now ready. It is a "Mormon" book
for "Mormon" children and contains nearly 300
pages in short articles of poetry and prose all
new and original. The book is just what is
needed at the present time and is suitable for a
holiday gift. Price $1.50. The book can be ob-
tained at this office. 
	The Quarterly Conference of the Y. L. M. I. 
A of this Stake will be held on Friday the 19th
day of Dec. in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in
this City, and it is desirable that there should be
a punctual attendance of officers and members as
it is anticipated there will be an interesting
session. Brethren and sisters who are anxious
for the improvement of the young people of Zion
are respectfully invited to be present at both
meetings at 2 p.m. and at 7:30 p. m. Mrs. M. A.
Freeze presiding.


The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake, will be held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, in this City Thursday, Dec. 18,
1800. Representatives from each branch Society
in the County are expected to be present and re-
port verbally. As this is a very important period
in the history of the Church, it is most essential
that all duties be performed faithfully and it is
ardently hoped by those who preside over the 
Relief Society, that the sisters make a good
showing by their presence at this Conference.
The brethren are cordially invited to attend.
Meetings will commence at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m.
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding. 
	The Quarterly Conference of the Primary As-
sociation of this Stake will be held in the As-
sembly Hall in this City Saturday Dec. 20, meet-
ing commencing at 10 a. m. It is expected that
those who preside in each Primary in the County
will take an interest in this Conference and help
to make it what it should be a place of instruction.
Every officer who can should make a point of
attending these Conferences for her own benefit
and that she may be more helpful to those with
whom she is associated. Wherever it is practic-
able the children should attend as their help is
necessary to make a Primary Conference bene-
ficial. Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson presides in this
Stake over the Primary Associations.


