UTAH CO., W. S. A. 
	A meeting for the re-election of officers of the
Utah County Woman Suffrage Association for
the ensuing year was held at Provo in the Meet-
ing house on Saturday Nov. 29, at 2 p. m. Mrs.
Susa Y. Gates the retiring President of the Asso-
ciation in the chair. On the platform were
seated Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City and
some of the local officers of the W. S. A, among
them Mrs. Electa Bullock and Mrs. Joanna
Patten; and the Secretaries Mrs. Rebecca H.
Doolan and Miss Eveline Billings, Mrs. Mary
John, Mrs. Marilla M. Daniels, Mrs. Alice M.
Thurman; and Vice Presidents from branch asso-
ciations in other parts were also present.
	The meeting opened with singing, "God moves
in a mysterious way." Prayer was offered by the
Chaplain of the day Mrs. Annie K. Smoot, sing-
ing "O, God our help in ages past." Minutes of
previous meeting were read and approved, also the
Treasurer's report for the past year.
	Reports were given by Mrs. M. A. Webb, Vice
Pres. of Lehi, Mrs. Hannah Lapish, Vice Pres. of
American Fork also Mrs. Elizabeth Brown who


spoke in behalf of Pleasant Grove. Mrs. Webb
and Mrs. Lapish spoke very spiritedly and made
many good points.
	The President Mrs. Gates then made quite a
pathetic appeal to the sisters, giving some very
good reasons why she had not succeeded in ful-
filling her anticipations. The business of re-elec-
ing was then attended to, Mrs. Joanna Patten was
sustained as President for the coming term of
office (one year) and Mrs. Electa Bullock First
Vice Pres. Mrs. Deborah Billings Second
Vice Pres. Mrs. Maria Horrocks Third Vice Pres.
Mrs. Alice H. Wilkin Chairman Executive Board
Mrs. Rebecca H. Doolan Recording Secretary,
Miss Mabel Thurman Cor. Sec. Mrs. Jane Jones
Treasurer. The names of five ladies were pre
sented as members of the Ex. Board whose names
were a guarantee that they were capable of the
work. The business of re-electing having been
completed, the newly elected President Mrs
Patten made some very suitable remarks in an
innocent and unaffected tone and manner.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells addressed the audience for
some time setting forth the advantages for the de-
velopment of women through being connected
with these Associations and urging all to work in
the interest of woman's advancement, referred to
the great need of woman's help in many public
places, where women were to be cared for, and
the necessity of preparation to perform one's part
well. Referred to the practical experience the
women of Utah had in the exercise of the elective
franchise and to the way in which it was taken
from them because they voted according to their
own best judgment in the matter. Mrs. Wells
then read the Constitution and By-Laws recently
prepared by the National-American W. S. A. and
explained some of the items to the ladies present
Thought Utah County with a paid up member-
ship of nearly five hundred ought to send a delegate
 rom their Association to the Convention in
Washington. Spoke also of the Woman Suffrage
Song Book about to be issued in Salt Lake City
	After some deliberation the ladies sand "Praise
God from whom all blessings flow," meeting ad-
journed for one month and the Chaplain offered
the closing prayer.


