UTAH W. S. A.

	A meeting of the Woman Suffrage Association
was held in the 14th Ward Meeting House Satur-
day, Nov. 22, 1890 for the purpose of organizing
the Woman Suffrage Association of Salt Lake
County. The President Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball
in the chair. Mrs. B. W. Smith, who was ap-
pointed to act as chaplain, opened the meeting
with prayer. Mrs. Margaret Mitchell made a few
remarks, said that she had always felt that wo-
men ought to be free and equal with men; that
as members of this Territory we ought to look
around us and do whatever we could to help
humanity; that we have to be governed and there-
fore we want to be a power in that government
and want to exercise our ability in judging for
ourselves how we should be governed.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke on the subject of or-
ganizing the W. S. A. of Salt Lake County; said
that they had to use such material as presented
itself and the very best selections of those who
were willing to work in the cause.
	Nominations for the officers of the Association
for Salt Lake County being next in order, the
following persons were unanimously chosen and
sustained to fill the different offices: Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard, President; Mrs. Louisa Spencer,
First Vice-president; Mrs. Helena F. Wells
Second Vice-president; Mrs. Rachel Miller,
Third Vice-president; Mrs. Caroline C. Raleigh,
Secretary, Miss Emma Finch, Cor. Sec'y.; Miss
Nellie Morris, Ass't. Sec'y.; Dr. Elvira S. Barney
Treasurer; Mrs. Elizabeth McFarlane, Chair-
man of the Executive Board and Miss May M.
Wells, Mrs. Elizabeth Price, Mrs. Clara Field,
Mrs. Nettie Culmer, Mrs. Della Eardley, and Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp, members of the Executive
Board.
	The By-laws of the W. S. A of Utah and the
Constitution of N. W. S. A. were then read by
the Secretary. Mrs. Richards explained some of
the different points in them but felt that there was
no time to make any further remarks.
	The meeting was then adjourned sine die.
		ADA CROXALL Sec.
	Utah Woman Suffrage Association.


The Corresponding secretaries of the National
Council and the National American Woman
Suffrage Association request that the dates of
meeting be stated as follows: National Council
February 22nd 25th. N. A. W. S. A. February
26th—March 1st. The meetings of both organi-
zations will be held in Albaugh’s opera house,
Washington, D. C.


