EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Conference of the Relief Society of the
Cassia Stake convened at Oakley on the 17, of
Oct. 1890 at 10 a. m.
	In the stand were Pres. Haight and Coun-
selors; a few local officers of the Society of
the brethren the Stake Presidency, bishops
and others. The sisters assembled were dis-
appointed in not seeing some of the sisters
from Salt Lake City as expected, but who
owing to unavaidable circumstances were un-
able to come. However, matters being ex-
plained the disappointment was overcome and
all enjoyed the meetings.
	During the morning session Pres. Haight and
her Counselors addressed the Conference, urg-
ing the sisters to be prompt in attending their
conferences and meetings and discharging
every duty resting upon them. Three of the
wards were represented as doing favorably
though some carelessness was manifested.
	Bro. D. P. Curtis spoke at some length giv-
ing instances of a recent visit to several places
in Utah and dewlling at some length on the
spirit of the recent General Conference which
he had attended.

	At the afternoon session reports were given
of two other wards. Sister Rosabel A.
Brim and Annie Bird, Brothers Frank Brim
and M. Pickett occupied most of the time.
Following are some of their topics: Society
meeting at general Conference; many think if
they preform a few of their duties it is all
right; should nourish charity; not magnify
wrong spoken of any one; not called to meet
death for religion but to live it every day; as-
sociations of young girls who go from home to
work; teachings at general conference; people
of complaining, fault-finding spirit; any man or
woman buried in baptism, should walk forth in
newness of life; man's degrading himself, often 
below the beast that does nor abuse nature;
must watch in faith that things which tran-
spire may be known to us preaching will not
unite people without practice; the brethren
generally assist the sisters in the performance 
of their duties.
	Brother H. D. Haight made remarks con-
cerning spirit of hurry and work prevalent 
among the people even to the neglect of
spiritual duties.
	Items of business attended to and Conference
adjourned until March next.
