ONE CHRISTMAS EVE.

	An old brown farm house standing upon a
hilly slope, near a hemlock grove where one
of those low murmuring pebbly brooks rip-
pled along, its undertone harmonizing
perfectly with the sighing and shivering of the
great pines in the back ground of the pretty
picture. Look there is a crowd of children
coming in from a ramble laden with ever-
greens, hemlock boughs, trailing vines and 
bright red winter berries. How merry they
are, chatting gaily, and their laughter ring-
ing out in the clear frosty air. A light snow
is falling which makes the scene even more
attractive. What a picture for an artist these
little folks would make. The long vines they
have pulled from under the thick carpet of
fallen leaves, that had covered and kept them
fresh until the winter holidays, when there are
no flowers in the gardens outside, are wound
around them giving them the appearance of
wood nymphs.
	These village children are familiar with
woods and fields, and happy in their simple
country life, they have no idea whatever, of
city waysland extravagant tastes, they have
not even had a glimpse of the great busy
world outside, its gaiety or wretchedness.
	It is the day before Christmas and within the
homely dwelling great preparations are being

[Column 2]

made for coming festivities. The children left
to their own fancies had wandered away in the
pine woods, and returned home carrying in
their arms and about them the boughs and
vines and berries; and soon they are busy
hanging them around the walls of the long, low,
living room where the meals are always served
and the family gathered in the winter weather.
There on a winter evening many interesting
stories and anecdotes were told and old-fash-
ioned songs sung, and in the great wide fire
place the pine knots blazed high and the re-
flection on the dark oaken paneled walls
made many a fanciful light and shadow, so
weird and strange that they were ever afterward
remembered by the little ones reared in that
happy home. On that particular Christmas
Eve, the ever greens were festooned and
garlanded so heavily and the dark green hung
with shining red berries, so that the dim
shadowy light when it danced fitfully over
and around made a strange contrast in its
 weirdness to the bright eyed rosy cheeked
merry children who fluttered hither and
thither singing and laughing admiring the
decorations and calling the attention of the
older ones to the quaint and pretty designs.
	So rustic seemed this country home with
its simple but tasteful ornamentation that one
might almost imagine it a woodland scene,
and the smell of the fragrant hemlock and
pine was like a perfume from the forest it-
self.
	How different was this home of nearly half
a century ago, plain and primitive in all its
appointments to even the village homes of to-
day.
	There was no chandelier hanging in the great
wide bare hall, only plain wooden pegs for the
hats and coats, and it had no carpet, but a
painted floor with gay colored, warm, home-
made woolen mats, the only really attractive
feature, except the reflector that hung on the
wall, and was only lighted on special occasions.
	The house was unusally gay this Christmas
eve, though these Puritanical New England
folks didn't make so much ado about Christ-
mas then as they do now; still it was custom-
ary to have a holiday week before New Year's,
and visits were interchanged among relatives
and friends, and elaborate dinners were indul-
ged in. There was much feasting and merry-
making and many queer old games for pastime
besides. Who shall say that those were not
"the good old times," of which we sing and
talk and moralize so much? I may have
been too prosy in describing this country
dwelling etc. and perhaps 'twould please the
present generation better to plunge into the
story without preamble, but all this is so
vivid to the writer, and it will do our
boys and girls no harm to know how their
mothers and grandmothers lived many years
ago. As I sit before the blazing fire late on a
winter's night, I can call up many striking
pictures and incidents and remember well the
people that figured in the dramas that actually
transpired, out of which the threads of many
stories might be woven, and I perhaps indulge
too much in reverie and simplify beforehand
what ought to be brought out in the narrative
itself.
	This Christmas Eve was the last one that the
large family assembled there on that occasion,
not one missing, ever spent within those time-
honored walls; for ere another year had flown
the group was broken, and one "only a girl"


[column 1]﻿
sort of restraint seemed to hinder the freedom
felt in times past. Edward felt he must
break the spell and looking up with his great
fathomless blue eyes inquiringly said, "What
about the homestead mother if you are de-
termined to go West? I was in hopes if was
not true but on coming to the village I find
it is quite understood by the neighbors? We’ve
been so happy here these many years, and its
such a delightful place, might be made a
charming summer resort, everything to make
it attractive in that way, if we chose to do it,
there is not a more picturesque spot in all this
part of New England and it abounds iu
sequestered vales and nooks among the hills,
O, I can’t think of its being sold to strangers;
I like the English idea of ancestral in-
heritance.”
	The tender-hearted mother heard him
through and with characteristic firmness re-
plied, “Edward I have thought all this over
and made up my mind that if you would, you
could keep the old home from  going into the
hands of strangers?" "Why mother what do
you mean?” “I mean simply this, marry and
settle down here, not one of your city belles,
they might only fancy the place, beautiful as
its surroundings are for a summer season, but
one of our own villagers, and after awhile you
may see things as I do, and join us in the
West, then you would be more reconciled to
the parting.”
	“Well mother, I'll think about buying the
the place, but as for the village girls, they are
all pure minded and innocent doubtless and
that should be an inducement, but I shall not
marry yet, awhile.  I'd like this strong attach-
ment for the home and its belongings to wear
off a little,before we part with it,if it ever will;
every foot of the land is endeared to me by
some memory or other; the old well- sweep, I
love to hear it creak, as in my school-boy days
when the wind blew from the hemlock grove
yonder,though its not a thing of beauty by any
means, yet, I have made a sketch of it, which
I intend to keep for the sake of old re-
membrances; there will never be any water
that will seem so sweet and pure in all the
years to come I fear, as I have drank from
that old well with its undignified sweep,that we
can see such a distance away. “The new
fangled pumps don’t compare with it in my
opinion, still in new houses I prefer them but
in this place I like things just as they are."
	“I am glad Edward that you have such a
reverence for the home of your childhood, and
I hope you may be able to take it and secure
to me sufficient ready money for my rights in
the estate, so that I can go to the West, and
take the younger children and yet it grieves
me very much that I must part not only with
old time friends, endeared to me by tender
ties of affection, but that more than half my
children must be left behind.  I know how-
ever that in this matter I am right and my
views upon the subject cannot be changed.
The arrangement of leaving the homestead in
Edward’s hands to be disposed of  afterwards
was partially decided upon and mother and
son sat talking of this and other things into
the wee sma’ hours of morning the rain beat-
ing against the window panes, the fierce wind
howling and shrieking without, the old well-
sweep creaking, while in the lull at intervals
the pine woods sighed in a minor key like a re-
quium as it were, for the parting of that happy
family from each other and the home of their
childhood.
	They had spent the Christmas time together
without any particular event of importance
transpiring, some gloomy presentiments, that
might be caused by the knowledge that the
home was to be sold and the household broken
up, that was all; tomorrow some of them must
return to their own homes, and that alone pro-
duced a sort of sadness, such as we have all of

[column 2]
us felt perhaps, after some specially happy oc-
casion, when the reaction comes, as it is almost
always sure to do.
	No sorrow not the lightest had ever fallen
upon Deborah Curtis, yet she had been pen-
sive and thoughtful during the Christmas fes-
tivities; to her perhaps more than to any one
else, the cloud that hung over the gathering
had seemed dark and threatening.
	That dismal Christmas night when the wind
was shrieking as if in mortal agony, and as
she thought all the household were fast asleep
she lay tossing and moaning on her downy
pillows, sobbing out every now and then, "if
he comes tomorrow what shall I do?  But I
am not to blame I did not say he might come
here, besides what will Fred say, he has always
been my champion, my playmate ever since
we went, to school together, and I have been so
proud of him too, and the other girls so
jealous, and now Frank is coming, and de-
clares in that last letter that he will take no
refusal.”
	“Let me see,” and climbing out of bed she
lit her candle opened her drawer and between
her tears and sobs; began to read this terrible
letter that was causing such a commotion in
in her feelings.
	“Yes here it is,” and she read, “I am coming
the day after Christmas when all your big
brothers and sisters are there, even Edward
whom you think will frighten me out of asking
for you, and I shall storm the old castle for
my lady bird, and for aught I know waft her
away on the wings of the wind, if I should
meet with any resistance, from these stalwart
brothers—I give you timely warning, and I
trust there will be no fainting or hysterics
among the women folks.”
	“Wicked boy,” Deborah muttered to herself
as shivering with cold and excitement she
folded and replaced the letter and hurried back
to bed.  Poor child, she fell asleep and dreamed
that Frank Lockwood came with a carriage
to take her away and that Fred Howard
snatched her up in his arms, and would not
let go his hold, and then she woke, the dream
was so real that she could scarcely believe she
was in bed in her own room and the storm still
beating against the window as when she fell
asleep.
	St. Stephen's day the 26th of December a
dismal morning, no getting out in such a storm,
and Deborah was somewhat calmed when she
saw how unpropitious the weather was for
traveling. She tried to summon courage to
speak to her mother, but it was impossible, her
manner seemed so forbidding.  The truth was
Mrs. Curtis was so absorbed in what had
transpired between Edward and herself the
night before that she was oblivious to all things
of less importance.  It never for one moment
occurred to her nor to any one of them, that
Deborah had a lover coming upon the scene to
interrupt their pleasure.  Nevertheless he
came and very unceremoniously.
	As he had asserted in his letter, he dashed
up the lane where the gates stood open really
the main entrance for carriages driving
a span of fine grey horses, and a handsome turn-
out in every respect for traveling. The bells
rang out so wildly close to the house that the 
ladies and children all rushed to the windows
except Deborah, who was ready to faint before
she knew what the matter was.  At the sound of 
the bells Edward was on hand, and seeing a 
total stranger was about to speak, when the
young man jumped out of the sleigh and in-
troduced himself, with the salutation," I sup-
pose you are young Mr. Curtis, and I am 
Frank Lockwood from Athol, I suppose your
sister has told you about me!  "No I never
heard of your existence, but come in you're
welcome, let me take your horses to the barn
you've driven hard I see, a fine team."
	The horses were taken care of and Edward

[column 3]
Curtis led the way to the house but on enter-
ing, with the expectation of finding Deborah
to explain matters, the room was vacated ex-
cept the children and babies and gentlemen
guests; the eldest brother opened up a conver-
sation with the young stranger, and Edward
stepped out to see what was going on, for
from the stranger's remarks he had gathered
that the young man had come a wooing some-
thing after the fashion of olden times on the
defensive, declaring war beforehand; he found
his mother and sisters were engaged in bring-
ing Deborah out of a dead faint.  which
only seemed to complicate things in his mind,
and made him think seriously of sending the 
young man about his business, but finally
concluded not to percipitate matters but wait to
see the scenes unravel.  Frank was very un-
comfortable every time the door opened he ex-
pected to see Deborah, but she came not, and 
the impatient lover grew weary waiting.  No
explanation was made as in fact no one knew 
what to say.  One after another the married
sisters came into the parlor and were introduced
to Mr. Lockwood, but Deborah's name was
never mentioned.  A child came in and 
spoke to Edward, he excused himself, his 
sister had sent for him, and his mother was
also in waiting.  "What has this young man
to say who has thrust himself upon us at this
unseasonable time?" said the mother, "He has
said nothing as yet except to ask if my sister
told me of his coming."  "Will you inquire
his errand Edward," resumed the mother with
the most perfect composure? "As you please
mother, but what does Deborah say?"  "That 
you must persuade him to go away without
seeing her, that she is not engaged to him?"
	Then she gave him encouragement; has
trifled with his affections.  The fellow is
desperate, a veritable hero of romance."  
	There was no help for it, Edward had never
been in love himself, but somehow he felt a
great sympathy for this daring young fellow
who could face a whole house full of relatives
determined to conquer them all.  He thought 
a great deal of his sister, not exactly his style
she was such a delicate, fragile creature but
beautiful and gentle and so sensitive he could 
scarcely see how any man could want her for
a wife, that name seemed to him to imply too
much for one so young and inexperienced,
however if he must "face the music" better
begin right away.
	Edward sent to invite Mr. Lockwood to 
meet him in an adjoining room, and of course
he did so and they talked over the matter
seriously together.  Edward found his sister
had spoken truly when she said she had given 
him no hope of loving him, but Frank was
 one of those men that by some peculiar fascina-
tion compel women in spite of themselves, to 
listen and often imagine it is true love, when up-
on serious reflection they are convinced it is not
the love that is needed for the daily duties of 
life.  It passes for the real article in the 
matrimonial market very often, but when it
 is put in the crucible and tested there proves
to be very little of the genuine material.  If
the experience of others could be valued at its
proper estimate, girls would be more consider-
ate before hand and when they made a choice
it might perhaps be a wiser one.  It is
customary to call marriage a lottery etc. and 
very erroneous ideas of love prevail among
men as well as women. For instance this
happy Christmas was interupted and the guests
dispersed in anything but gay spirits though
the inopportune arrival upon the scene of this
young stranger who fancied himself madly in 
love.  He succeeded admirably in creating a 
sensation and upsetting the household.  The
family party thus rudely broken in upon could
not regain the same feelings of enjoyment
and those who went away with the good bye.
		[Continued on page 94.]


[Column 1]

﻿had gone far away and everything seemed to
change from that time, one went here and
another there, and by and bye the cruel war of
the rebellion came and sad tragedies followed,
but we forbear to name these things now and
come back to the Christmas Eve and for this
once we'll watch these festive merry makers.
	It was a numerous family and the older
married ones who lived at a distance came one
after another during the day before Christmas
each with their little ones; there were three
daughters married whose husbands came with
them and one son with his wife, and another
unmarried son whose employment took him
away from his native village. Late in the
afternoon all had arrived,and the old home re-
sounded with heartfelt rejoicing. All these
were to dine at the old homestead and spend a
day or two or more after at the dear place
they loved so well, and late that night when
the very little ones were sleeping, the younger
children lingered to hear their older brothers
and sisters talk over the days when they were
at home and try to recall incidents and cir-
cumstances and repeat over old stories, each
one in turn filling in a part that another had
forgotten. After the story telling, songs were
sung and every one was required to add some-
thing to the evening's amusement. The stories
and songs were mostly of a legendary char-
acter, and later on a sort of dullness fell upon
the party that none of them were willing to
acknowledge yet all felt more or less, and at-
tributed it in a measure to the nature of the
pastime with which they had passed the hours
away.
	Finally after a lull in the conversation, and
the fire was beginning to burn low, one of the
company suggested it was almost twelve o'clock
and soon they could wish each other "a merry
Christmas," and retire, for it seemed to be
silently conceded that all were tired; and just
when a sort of quiet reigned, another broke in
upon the spell that was apparent with "I
wonder what will happen before another
Christmas Eve" and quick as answers often
come without thought, two or three voices at
once burst forth with the exclamation Edward
will be married,and we shall have another sister
added to our number instead of missing one.
But no one of all assembled there thought that
ere another year had flown, the half-grown girl
who sat there on that night so pale and
thoughtful like one in a dream, would be gone
forever from their midst into a new and very
different life.
	As is often the case after very lively and
rather gay enjoyments a sort of solemnity fell
upon the party, and the merry Christmas, as
it resounded through the rooms seemed to
leave a hollow echo in the apartments, that
was more like a farewell than the tone of glad
greeting such as it was meant to be.
	The wind was howling outside now, though
the day had been rather a placid one with
only a light fall of snow at intervals.
	The evening had passed quickly and there
had been so much sparkle and brilliancy in-
side that the sounds without had not disturbed
them in the least, but when quiet settled down
and the family separated for the night, the ele-
ments seemed in great commotion; the wind
was fairly shrieking and the great elm trees
in the yard, swayed to and fro and crackled,
and the sighs and moans of the pine woods in
the distance were piteous to listen to. To one
full of sentiment these melancholy dirges,
especially on a wintry night have something
inexpressibly tender and significant in them,
and the voices in the wind are full of the
sweetest pathos, yet appealing to the strongest
emotions, that give expression to the human
soul in its deepest distress. Yea, even in the
agony that is beyond expression. They seem
to cry out for the suffering ones and to moan
piteously in the night time while the glad world

[Column 2]

of humanity is wrapped in sleep. This night
was a dismal one, and the young people grew
nervous from the sadness that brooded over
their Christmas greetings. It was as though a
presentiment came that something was about
to happen; even though all was peace and
quietness within and no kuowledge of any evil
shadow lurking about or around had caused
this melancholy foreboding.
	Life was rich with promise to all the house-
hold, and especially so to the little maiden
who was just bursting into womanhood; her
amiable manner and cheerful disposition were
the very life of the old home, nothing could be
brighter or more hopeful than the future
prospects of this young girl. The world to her
was so full of beauty and sweetness and she
had been a favorite with all the household.
	It sometimes happens that the child bursts
suddenly as by revelation into a knowledge of
the forces that have lain dormant in the mind
through all the tenderer years, while in others
perhaps it only dawns upon them through
slow processes of reasoning or bitter experi-
ences.
	But we were talking of Christmas festivities,
and though the wind howls and the woods take
up the echo, the great logs burn brightly and
happy faces light up the Christmas morn.
Snow had fallen very deep and when the hall
door was opened the great bank of light snow
fell in upon the floor to the delight of the
children who were not permitted to go out in
such weather. The morning sun shining in
dispelled the gloom of the previous night and
in the exercises of prayer and reading of
passages from the Bible, which was customary
in this house, the melancholy died away and
the breakfast was partaken of in the most
cheerful mood by all.
	During the day while visiting with each
other the daughters roamed through the house
from garret to cellar, commenting upon the old
styles and suggesting modern improvements.
The mother objected to new-fangled notions
and affirmed that the old home was dearer to
her from association than any other could ever
be however elegantly fitted up, or modernized.
	"I am loth to leave this dear old place
where I have been so many years a happy wife
and mother, or to part with any portion
of my household furniture for all your derision
and making fun of my antiquated notions.
Furniture is not made of such rich wood nowa-
days, much of it is sham, and on a par with
the rude brusque manners of some of our
young people." "But girls" said the mother
continuing "you may each of you select a
piece of furniture today to take with you to
your own home, and remember whatever
happens you must not part with it, let it be as
a memento of your childhood home and of
this Christmas visit." And so they did, and
long after, when many of those who ate their
Christmas dinner together on that day had
gone to "that better land" those who remained
were reminded of the time; they had spent to-
gether with the darling mother and of the
sweet and gentle words she had spoken.
	But we must not forget the dinner which
was a most elaborate affair, and served in the
room decorated by the children with only
natural evergreens and red berries,but so dark
and curiously  woven together that it was
weird enough for a gipsy's camp. Christmas-
trees were unknown in that primitive place
in those days and the gifts that were bestowed
were generally those of love and good-will.
	But the dinner was delicious, and about
forty persons including children sat down to-
gether around that festive board. Turkeys
with savory dressing young pigs roasted whole,
pnddings, pies, cakes and preserves with a
variety of condiments and side dishes. No
wine or sweet cider even were ever served
to the guests in that house, the mistress

[Column 3]

strongly objected; "My boys she always said
shall never be tempted at home to partake of
strong drink," but rosy cheeked apples piled
high in elegant glass and china dishes, made
the table quite ornamental, oranges too from
Florida added to the beauty of the sumptuous
feast, and tempted the already sharpened
appetites of the children.
	Long they lingered at table this happy
family on that day which seemed forever after to
mark an era in their lives; one joke after
another was told and some of them had a very
practical application, but all was in good
nature and jollity, and the daylight faded into
eventide ere the company had realized its
approach.
	The lamps were lighted, the tables cleared
and put back, the shining hearth clean swept
a fresh supply of cragged pine knots piled
high in the great open fire-place, upon the
heavy dog-irons; and the pastimes of the evening
commenced. Each one was to do something,
tell a story, sing a song, relate an anecdote,
or give some pleasing recitation; the progamme
was an impromptu one,yet mostly they agreed,
no one differing with another as to how or why
they should render due regard to the appoint-
ment.
	The hours sped as on the wings of the wind,
and ere the half was told the midnight bell
pealed out in the frosty air. Mrs. Curtis never
encouraged sitting up after midnight not even
for company. One by one the visitors and the
family departod to their rooms with a formal
goodnight, except the unmarried son, who had
won something of a reputation as a practical
business man, and who during his occasional
visits to the home of his childhood, always took
the opportunity to advise with his mother on
his own account, as well as hers. So far since
his arrival there had really been no good
chance of their speaking apart, and he had be-
gun to feel very uncomfortable. This evening
he felt determined to detain his mother afrer
the rest had retired; there was still a blazing
fire, and it seemed to invite the confidence of
those whose hearts need warmth and sympathy.
Bachelors ever do and Edward had never been
married and his life was a sort of Bohemian
kind,that pleased him well,but that his exem-
plary mother thought was simply dreadful.
	He had been a great favorite with his mother
always such a serious steady boy and now
such a finely proportioned brown-bearded
handsome young man with great blue eyes
that seemed to speak volumes in a glance. The
village girls made no secret of their admira-
tion for him,and wherever he went he attracted
the attention of those about him, and influenced
them much as he wished when he chose to
exert his powers. He was a man of strong
emotions and devotedly attached to his mother,
and her interests. in many respects the mother
and son were very similar They had been
accustomed to confer together on financial
family matters, and Mrs. Curtis had always
found Edward a safe adviser. He was fond of
home in his own way and very fond of his
aristocratic looking mother, as well as of her
excellent economy and management of the
homestead with its fine broad acres of meadow-
land, pastures, hillsides and woods,
	"'My mother he had often said to gentlemen
friends can manage an estate as well as most
men; her executive ability is quite equal to
that of any man in our county, and I am
sure she would make a good Judge she has
that sort of judicial manner of weighing things
and giving her opinion when she has looked
on all sides."
	In fact Edward Curtis had said on one or
two occasions if he could find a young woman
with such a well-balanced head as his mother
had he would ask her to be his wife. On
this Christmas night when mother and son
were left alone for a few moments at first a


date of Nov. 6, 1890 and speaks of the various
Conferences in the mission in Sweden, Norway
and Denmark. Of Christiana he says, "Sunday
the 12th (October) three services were held at
which the principles of the Gospel were explained
to crowded houses. The hall will seat about 400
and it was full of people each time. About half
that number were friends and strangers. Nor-
wegian evergreens, interwoven with flowers taste-
fully displayed, formed the decorations of the
room. On Monday we held a priesthood meeting 
and in the evening the Sunday School children
had a sociable which was well attended. Refresh-
ments were served to the children free. On
Wednesday evening the sisters of the Relief
Society held a Fair at which they realized quite
a sum of money to be used for charitable pur-
poses."	*	*	*	Thursday afternoon Brother
Anderson went to Stockholm there he says the
Saints have a commodious hall in Hornsgaten,
"beautiful decorations graced the building," at
the first meeting the hall was filled with people.
It is the largest Conference in the Mission there
are over 1,400 members now, and during the past
six months 99 have been baptized and many are
investigating the principles of the Gospel."
	During the past six months 312 baptisms have
taken place in the mission."
	This seems to be a very cheering statement and
Brother Anderson thinks more Elders are needed
in that land. By this record it does not appear
that "Mormonism" is dying out as some people
imagine, far from it.


