PRIMARY CONFERENCE AND FAIR.

	The Primary Associations of Davis Stake,
met in Farmington, Saturday, Sep. 27th 1890,
to hold their semi-annual conference. Sister
Louie B. Felt General President, Sister Ellen
Clawson Pres. of Salt Lake Stake and Miss
May Anderson were present by invitation.
	There were two meetings held, 10 a. m. and
2 p. m. In the morning the children present
were counted and there were 100 boys and 194
girls.
	In this stake there are thirteen fully
organized associations, all in good working
order.
	There is great credit due to Sister Rogers
and her counselors for the excellent manner in
which they conduct these meetings.
	In one or two things especially that are
worthy of imitation. In opening with prayer,
one of the sisters lead, and the whole congrega-
tion repeat in concert. And in calling the
roll, each ward stands up, and the Pres. or
representative states how many are present
from their association, and then all repeat in
concert a sentiment. 
	There was a nice programme, very creditably
rendered by the children. The ladies from


Salt Lake City addressed the children at both
meetings.
	The Bishop of Farmington and some other
brethren were present, and each spoke a few
words of encouragement and advice.
	After meeting there was a general adjourn-
ment to the Fair, which was held in the old
Court House, and a very nice fair it was.
Such a display of fancy and useful articles.
Four nice rag-carpets decorated the corners of
the room, quilts out of number most of them
sewn by hand, and two of them were particu-
larly handsome. A picture frame made by
Miss Luella King age twelve years was very
handsome and unique, being made of leather,
cut into flowers and leaves and then varnished.
	On one table were some little pieces of
patchwork pinned together just as the liltle
sewer had laid it down, and to which is now
attached a sad story. Edith Hogan a little
4 year old girl was very anxious to do some-
thing for the fair, but she took sick and died
the night before the fair opened; and her
mother sent the pieces of patchwork just as
her little daughter had left them.
	One department was devoted to the boys,
who showed their ingenuity by making rakes,
a cupboard, barrow, hammock, some nice
fencing, and a lot of other things, one boy had
grown an immense sunflower, and there were
also some nice rabbits and pigeons.
	Another room was set apart for fruit, pickles
and vegetables, and a very nice showing was
made. All the bottled fruits and preserves
were donated to the Deseret Hospital.
	And I must not forget the little boy who had
broken his leg, and while in bed made some
splashers, and worked them very neatly with
the etching stitch.
	Between meetings a very nice lunch was
prepared in one of the rooms in the Court
House, where the visitors and workers spent a
little time very pleasantly.
