ELIZABETH B. PRATT.

	The incidents of my life while in the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
50 years of my life I have been a member: I
have been in peril by sea and by land and
among false brethren, who denied the truth
after receiving it. And in affliction often, but
out of them all the Lord has delivered me, I
can truthfully say there has been no principle
advanced by the leaders of this Church that I
have ever doubted for one moment.
	When I was sick and afflicted I have been
raised up by the prayer of faith many times.
	My parents were religious and members of
the Wesleyan Methodist Church, and they en-
deavored to bring up their children in the fear
of the Lord, I was trained in religious habits
and attended their Sabbath school in which I
took great pleasure, I was connected with this 
school 18 years in my childhood as a pupil and
as I became older I was placed over a pri-
mary class as teacher.
	When quite young I often regreted that I
had not lived in the days of our Savior and His
Apostles and as I pondered over these things I
became dissatisfied with that faith and mode
of baptism. This caused my parents much un-
easiness, I often went in private and prayed
to the Lord to direct me aright and I always
felt comforted.

[Column 2]

	I continued to pray and waited for several
years believing that in time I should be
directed aright. In the year 1840 a friend
handed me a Pamphlet published by the
Latter-day Saints which told of a Prophet be-
ing raised up and of angels appearing that the
true gospel was restored in its fulness with all
its gifts and blessings. I investigated those
principles and became convinced of the truth
so I found the "Pearl of Great Price." A
number of the Twelve Apostles were on a mis-
sion to England at the time and many received
the truth through their teaching.
	On the 4th of September 1840 Apostle
Brigham Young, afterwards President, led me
down into the waters of baptism; on the fol-
lowing Saturday I was confirmed. These
ordinances were performed by men called by
divine authority to preach and administer in
"the kingdom,set up in these last days no more
to be thrown down, nor given to another peo-
ple."
	The Apostle Heber C. Kimball pronounced
great blessings upon my head. Said, "I should
be a great dreamer and warned of dangers and
comforted in affliction." I received a powerful
testimony of the truth which was a great bless-
ing to me in the opposition I had to meet with
from my relatives and past friends. Old as-
sociates turned their backs on me, but I re-
joiced continually because I had received the
Gospel of our Savior and had seen the gifts
made manifest that were to follow the believer
and confirm the word. Soon after I joined the
Church I was invited to where Apostle Kimball
was to give a father's blessing, he turned to me
and asked if I did not want a blessing, I was
overjoyed to receive one from an Apostle, as I
had so often thought, Oh, that I could have
lived in the days of the ancient Apostles and
now indeed I am in the presence of one, en-
dowed with the same power and authority.
He laid his hands upon my head after the order
of the ancients, and gave me a father's blessing
he said I should receive the gift of tongues
which I did that night, and by my faithfulness
my father's family should all come into the
Church, one after another came into the
Church in three months my father being the
last to receive it. He disposed of his property
and we took our leave of our native land on
the 21st of September 1841.
	We sailed on the ship "Tyrean," Captain
Jackson went by the way of New Orleans with
two hundred and seven passengers bound for
Nauvoo. As we wound slowly out into the
river we sang "Lovely native land farewell."
	Joseph Fielding was the presiding Elder on
board. I was very sick for five weeks and was
nigh unto death, but was healed by the ad-
ministering of the Elders, and the prayer of
faith. We were seven weeks on the sea, and
did not arrive in Nauvoo until November.
There I became acquainted with the Prophet
Joseph Smith, a great and good man, and to
sit under his teachings,—I felt "That the lines
had fallen to me in pleasant places."
	My father only stayed nine weeks in the
Church after we came to Nauvoo, he aposta-
tized and moved away to Warsaw with the
family intending to return to England. They
tried to persuade me to follow them and gave
me one week to change my mind, but I stayed
on the ship Zion which has brought me safely
thus far on my journey. I returned to Nauvoo
I worked around from place to place; and
nursed the sick, waiting on them for my board,
for all were too poor to pay wages. The Saints
passed through much poverty and sickness also
persecution, but through all this they rejoiced
in the truth, chills and fever were prevalent
there. The Prophet would go from house to
house and lay hands on the sick, and say to
them "In the name of Jesus Christ arise and
walk." Many of the sick had faith to be in-
stantly healed. I was taught the law of Celestial


marriage by the Prophet Joseph, I never
doubted its truth and I felt in time to come I
should enter into that holy order. In July
1843 I was sealed to Parley P. Pratt at Pres.
Young's house, Hyrum Smith officiated, he
brought the revelation on that order and read
it. Sisters Mary Ann Young and Mary Ann
P. Pratt were witnesses. Joseph was sick at
this time.
	When I was first introduced to the Prophet
he held my hand and said, "God bless you."
There was such an influence with his words I
wondered how any one could doubt his being a
prophet. We would meet to worship on the
Sabbath day in a large bowery, he sometimes
addressed the assembly for two or three hours,
the Saints were rapt in profound attention by
the words of inspiration that fell from his lips,
I felt that I could listen to his teachings and
not get tired. Oh, what a blessing to mankind
to hear a true prophet's voice, only think what
a thick vail of darkness would cover the minds
of the people, when there was such a famine
of the word of the Lord. For
He says in Sacred writ, "That He will do
nothing except He revealeth Himself to His
servants the prophets." He laid the plan of
salvation on the rock of revelation, he brought
to light the true Gospel of our Savior Jesus
Christ, by His own word, not a confused mass
of creeds, opinions and ideas of men, but one
faith and one Lord and one baptism, which
makes the Latter-day Saints one in mind, spirit
and action. The Savior says "Except ye are
one, ye are not mine." By the oneness of the
people we know they have the true Gospel.
In it there is no schisms, wherever the Saints
are located, they believe the same Gospel, they
practice its tenets and the elders of the Church
among all people set forth the same principles
as Christ and His Apostles did eighteen hund-
years ago.
	After my father and our family apostatized
and went away I felt very sorrowful, one even-
ing when going to bed I was feeling cast down
and my sister who had been dead a number of
years, came to me and called me by name and
said, "be comforted you are all right, you have
a work to do for me." I wished to inquire
what she meant but she was gone. In two
days after this the Prophet preached on the
baptism for the dead.
		[To be continued.]


