UTAH OFFICERS IN CONGRESS.
	The suggestion of his Excellency, Governor
Thomas, for additional legislation on the subjects
 of granting lands, school lands, irrigation, etc.,
are set forth in detail. The demand for a public
building for Federal officers at Salt Lake City,
is also urged, as a measure of economy, for the
protection of the public records.
	The Secretary presents the governer's recom-
mendations in reference to additional legislation
on the Mormon question, and adds:
	Since the period at which the Governor wrote,
however, great changes have taken place in the
professions of the Mormons and the public decla-
rations of the Mormon Church. There was
handed to the Secretary of the Interior by John
T. Caine, Delegate to Congress from Utah, a
written communication of October 1, 1890, in
which attention was called to the following decla-
ration of Wilford Woodruff, president and highest
authority of that Church.


[The manifesto of President Wilford Woodruff
follows.]
	"Mr. Caine added in his letter that this decla-
ration was entitled to great weight in any con-
sideration that might be given the subject, and
seemed indeed conclusive and "the very result at
which the Government has been aiming so long.'
	"In the conversation which took place when this
letter was delivered, it was objected that Mr. Caine
and the president would have to meet the specifi-
cation of forty cases with more than a general
denial, and that the president was without author-
ity to change the doctrines of the Church; that
this belonged, if to any, to the high council or
general conference.
	"Mr. Young, Mr. Cannon and Mr. Caine have,
with some others, presented the claims of their
Church to confidence and favor.
	"After the conversation with Mr. Caine there
followed (October 6th) a general conference of
the Mormon Church, and the proclamation above
set forth was unanimously ratified. Addresses
were there made to the people on the subject by
the president and leading apostles.
	"What is expected because of these proceed-
ings, is no doubt, a removal of the Utah Com-
mission; the preservation of the elective franchise
to the members of the church in all the States and
territories, where they may be and a test oath
may be required of them; a restoration of the
property of the Church; and possibly the ad-
mission of Utah to Statehood with or without a
test oath against polygamy. The present laws
should not however, be changed on these pro-
fessions alone. These can be unmade by the
same body that has made them. The "revelation"
sanctioning polygamy remains unchanged. The
Mormons,  by their works, must prove their decla-
rations to be made in good faith, abandon poly-
gamy and conform to the practices of our people
in social and home life, acknowledge and prove
their allegiance to the United States Constitution
by obedience to the laws made pursuant thereto
by a loyalty equal in time and strength to their
past disobedience. The present system of laws
against Mormon practices has been constructed
by legislative wisdom, sanctioned by judicial de-
cree, and enforced by the Chief Executive of the
nation. Its object is not attained by securing a
proclamation of obedience from those who have
so long resisted it. Its purposes will be accom-
plished only when the opposing system shall have
lost its power, even if it regains the will, to work
the evils of the past.
	The work of the Utah Commission in super-
vising recent elections is set forth, as presented
in their report previeusly published.


