SOLITUDE AND ITS ADVANTAGES.

	"The law of compensation governs earth."
Even one's disadvantages may result in her
favor No condition of life has been more
lamented than loneliness and yet loneliness has
advantages which cannot be gainsayed. Chiefest
among these the opportunity which it gives
for the accumulation of force. All work de-
pends upon the expenditure of energy and
that energy in some occult way grows from
processes of life. It accumulates or is dissipated
according to the peculiarities of our surround-
ings and our habits of occupation. The de-
mands of family life require a constant ex-
penditure of force. The same is true of the
demands of business. To recuperate the victim
of nervous exhaustion, we confine him to a
darkened, quiet room. We prohibit conversa-
tion, letters or even books. In this semi-
dormant condition the nerve cells gather up
and accumulate nourishment, endurance. It
rests one to be for a little alone. An invalid
of our acquaintance went from a noisy city
street to a country place and for a week slept
both day and night, awaking only for meals.
The recuperative value of such sleep is enor-
mous.
	But our title referred to conditions of health.
Enforced solitude has produced many of our
greatest works. I say enforced solitude be-
cause we are social creatures and normally we
do not elect to be alone. Moses was obliged
to flee into the wilderness from which he
emerged as the most remarkable leader and
law giver of that or any other time. Even
Christ was driven by the spirit into the wilder-
ness. John Bunyan was incarcerated and the
Pilgrim's Progress was the result. Happy
lives have no history. The heart thrown


back on itself sings the enduring song. Are
you then bereft? Is the object for which you
have striven removed? Are you desolate?
Still your physical constitution is unaltered.
You will continue to manufacture force,
energy, which must be wasted or applied.
What will you do with it? Your responsibility 
does not cease because the usual channel for
youor thoughts has been deflected. Is your life
necessarily lonely? Apply the fact to your own
advantage and that of the world, and yours
may, even become an enviable position through
the noble use which you have made of it.
		The Nightingale.


