CHRISTMAS IS COMING.
	That Christmas is coming is everywhere ap-
parent in the donning of the holiday attire by
merchants and shop-keepers, as well as all other
establishments of a similar character. Every 
body who has anything to sell hopes to do a 
thriving business at this season of the year, Salt
Lake City is very gay and showy in appearance
just now, and judging from the preparations that


are going forward old Santa Claus will have a
most enthusiastic welcome. The Book sellers
expect a good share of patronage at such times,
and books are valuable presents and Santa Claus
generally lays in a choice supply and it is to be 
hoped he will not neglect the home authors at 
such a time.
	The Office of the Juvenile Instructor just
across the way from our little sanctum is well sup-
plied and Santa Claus should be notified that since
his last visit it has been removed into new and 
more commodious quarters and has increased in
the variety and quantity of suitable books, home
productions and selections carefully made; also
gifts and toys and almost everything Old King
Christmas needs to load up his sleighs etc.
	C. R. Savage at the Art Gallery near by, the
genial friend of the widow and the orphan, and
the children and old folks, and every body in 
general, is well supplied with every thing in the
art line, pictures especially of the various varieties
photographs etc., books of all kinds and sta-
tionery and the most wonderful tops and games
for the little people, his windows are always 
dressed in an attractive style at such times and
no pains is spared in catering to the public taste
in the way of art and literature.
	D. M. McAllister half way down on the same
block, has a very unique way of displaying his
goods; his show windows having been greatly 
admired ever since he "took to the business," and
it may be expected that Santa Claus will remember
him bountifully when getting in his supplies for
distribution; McAllister keeps the best magazines
and periodicals of the times.
	At the old stand where James Dwyer Esq. held
forth so many years, and catered to the public 
taste Margetts Bros. have a large and carefully
arranged stock of the same line of goods; they
keep all the popular and latest magazines and
periodicals also, and will certainly come in for a 
liberal share of Santa Claus patronage.
	Last but not least we hope, though perhaps
with a small beginning, we trust the Woman's
Store will be a popular and favorite resort for the
ladies, and gentlemen too, who want to make
purchases for Santa Claus. Mothers should look
in at the Woman's Store before purchasing else-
where, and help sustain by their custom the ad-
vancement of woman's co-operative enterprise in
this direction.
	Above everything else let us all remember on
this day of days the poor, the sick, the lonely and 
bereaved ones, the widow and the fatherless and
carry with us everywhere, and scatter at home
and abroad not only temporal gifts suited to our
means, but the good will and charity that seasons
good cheer. The love that surpasses all other
love and makes us like unto Him whose advent we
celebrate.


