WOMAN'S STORE.

	Preliminary steps have been taken towards the
establishment of a Woman's Store in this City at
an early date. A call was made through some of
the daily papers for a meeting to be held on Fri-
day Nov. 28, at 11 a. m. in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, for the transaction of important
business. The call was signed by Mesdames M.
Isabella Horne and E. B. Wells. The meeting
was held as per appointment, Mrs. M. I. Horne
Chairman and Mrs Emma G. Bull Secretary. The
subject of starting a Woman's Store and its
advantages was plainly stated first by the Chair-
man of the meeting and afterwards by Mrs. Caro-
line C. Raleigh, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. E.
B. Wells, Dr. E. S. Barney and others. The
shares were placed at $5.00 each and quite a
number of ladies came forward and took shares
in the enterprise. It is distinctly understood that
this is not a benevolent undertaking, but positively
a business transaction under the direction and
immediate supervision of reliable women, al-
though it will doubtless be a good investment for
means belonging to the Relief Society in its
several branches, and other like Associations,
much better than allowing the money to lie idle.
	Another meeting was held at the office of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT today Dec. 1st at which
further business was transacted and Committees
called for purchasing goods etc., who are actively
engaged in the movement, it is expected the store
will be opened on Saturday 13th or the Monday
following at latest.
	In connection with this commendable enter-
prise it is expected there will soon be dressmak-
ing, millinery and hair-dressing departments in
which young girls may be trained in these active
industrial employments. The management will be
in the hands of women acquainted with business
principles, consequently there is little need of un-
certainty about its success as a safe investment
for capital.
	Those desiring to take shares can pay them at
the store and receive Receipts for their money
until Certificates of shares can be issued. The
name under which this enterprise will be known
is "The Woman's Co-operative Mercantile and
Manufacturing Institution," situated opposite the
City Hall at 123 E. First South Street.


