NOTES AND NEWS.

	The first Wyoming State Legislature met in
Cheyenne on Wednesday of last week. They
at once elected two eminent woman suffragists,
Judge Carey and Gov. Warren, as U. S.
Senators.
	It should always be remembered that the
National American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion is an incorporated body, the papers hav-
ing been recorded in the District of Columbia,
April 16th, 1890. It is therefore capable of
receiving and holding gifts and bequests.
	Mrs. Olive Washburn, of San Francisco, is
about to devote the bulk of her fortune to
founding a Nationalist Colony in California.
Bellamy's "Looking Backward" theories are
to be followed, and all people of good moral
character will be admitted, irrespective of re-
ligious belief. Over $100,000 will be spent in
buildings and improvements. Ex.
	"We learn with great regret that Miss Julia
T. Foster died at her home in Philadelphia,
November 13th. Miss Foster was an earnest
friend and supporter of the woman suffrage
not only in Pennsylvania but nationally, and
those who knew her thus will miss her sweet
face and gentle manners. The warmest
sympathy is extended to her sister, Mrs.
Rachel Foster-Avery."
	"The examination for the Contemporary
History Scholarship of £100 a year for three
years, offered to women by Mr. Stead, the
London critic, will take place next January.
Names should be sent in to him, at the Review
of Reviews Office, Mowbray House, Norfolk,
Street, W. C., before Dec. 1. The examin-
aiton is open to women of any age and nation-
ality."
	In France, in the post-office and telegraph
service, about 5,000 women are engaged, with
salaries from $160 to $800 a year, and
pensions after thirty years' service. Many
women work in railroad offices, for from $200
to $240 a year. About 35,000 women are
teachers in public schools, and almost as many
more are religious teachers, besides those in
private schools. Ex.
	The Swiss universities are Meccas for
women students. The four schools of Zurich,
Basle, Berne, and Geneva have 183 of these
on their rolls, 72 being in Zurich alone, which
first opened its lecture-rooms to women. Of
these, 132 are in the medical department, 45
in the philosophical, 6 in the law. The
Russians are represented by 107 women
Switzerland by only 15. Ex.
	Mrs. Elizabath A. Reed has written a book
on "Hindu Literature: or The Ancient Books
of India," which will soon be issued by S. C.
Griggs & Co., Chicago. It treats of Hindu
Literature, from the earliest songs, of the
Aryan race to the writings of the mediæval
days. The author reviews the labors of
Sanscrit scholars in this vast field of literature,


and then gives a clear concise survey of the
great Indian epics, whose character and scope
are illustrated by copious extracts. Her work
has elicited the cordial interest of such
authorities as Professor Max Muller and Sir
Monier Williams, professor of Sanscrit in
Oxford University.


