(b) The Psalms of David of which the 23rd and 24th are great favorites.
(c) The Songs and Proverbs of Solomon often referred to as wisdom literature.
(d) The Book of Job of which it has been said, "There is nothing choicer in the world of literature."
(e) The stories of Ruth and Esther each of which ranks among the best stories to be found.
D. Historical (a) The greatest volume of sacred history known, and the world is indebted to it for much of its other history and literature, it being a source of both information and inspiration. The Old Testament is wholly a product of the Mosaic dispensation.
E. Human Welfare. (a) An unimpeachable testimony of national life, declaring that heroic loyalty to the Lord is the pathway of prosperity, and that surrender to sin spells captivity.
(b) The strengthening of the northern races through the introduction of Hebrew blood.
(c) The production of two of the most favored women who ever lived.
1. The mother of the greatest prophet ever born. And
2. The mother of the Son of God.
Questions and Problems
1. Give an example of a whole-hearted devotion to God such as is requested by the first commandment.
2. Give specific evidence that the children of Israel had absorbed some of the Egyptian idolatry.
3. What is broadcasted into the universe by profanity?
4. Whose work are we to do in six days?
5. Show that tolerating disobedience in children is a great injustice to them.
6. Discuss the present day crime of careless killing.
7. Discuss: The sixth commandment provides for the preservation of life, the seventh provides for having life worth preserving.
8. Show how industry is related to the eighth commandment.
9. Connect the ninth commandment up with this thought gem: "O to breathe each tale we've heard is far beneath a noble mind."
10. When does a person steal without taking anything?
11. Prove that Christian virtues of returning good for evil,

doing good to those who hate you and loving your neighbor as yourself, were required during the Mosaic dispensation.
12. Give scriptural proof that Elizabeth was the mother of the greatest prophet born of woman.
Work and