[Vol9 | March 1922 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson I - Theology and Testimony - Forgiveness]

Guide Lessons for May LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First WeEEx in May) FORGIVENESS Forgiveness is the mental cancellation of a debt or obligation, incurred through wrongdoing. It is accompanied by selfcontrol and generosity and mercy. The most striking example of forgiveness known is the: prayer of the Redeemer on the cross, and one of the most apt illustration of the folly of unforgiveness is found in Matthew 18:23-35. What Humanity Says: "T pardon him, as God shall pardon me."?Shakespeare, "Richard II." "To revenge is not valour, but to bear."?Shakespeare, "Timon of Athens." "Not to relent is beastly, savage, devilish." Shakespeare, "Richard III." "To err is human, to forgive divine."?Pope. "But to have power to forgive Is empire and prerogative: And 'tis in crowns a nobler gem To grant a pardon than condemn."?Bu?tler. "Virtue is not malicious; wrong done her Is righted even when men grant they err." ?Chapman. "But, thou art good, and Goodness still Delighteth to forgive."-?Burns. "Young men soon give and soon forget affronts; Old age is slow in both."?Addison.  "The kindest and the happiest pair Will find occasion to forbear; And something every day they live To pity and perhaps forgive." ?Cowper. "Being all fashioned of the self-same dust, Let us be merciful as well as just."?Longfellow. "Forgive! How many will say, "forgive" and find, A sort of absolution in the sound To hate a little longer."?-Tennyson. "There is an ugly kind of forgiveness in this world, a kind of hedge-hog forgiveness, shot out like quills; men take one who has offended and set him down before the blowpipe of their indignation and scorch him and turn his faults into him, and when they have kneaded him sufficiently with their fiery fists, then they forgive him." What Divinity Says: "T the Lord, forgive sins unto those who confess their sins before me and ask forgiveness, who have not sinned unto death. "My disciples, in the days of old, sought occasion against one another, and forgave not one another in their hearts, and for this evil they were afflicted and sorely chastened. "Wherefore I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another, for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord, for there remaineth in him the greater sin.: "J, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men, and ye ought to say in your hearts, let God judge between me and thee, and reward thee according to thy deeds."?Doctrine and Covenants, 64:7-11; 98: 40-48; Gospel Doctrine, pp. 421, 422, 423. "And ye shall also forgive one another your trespasses; for verily I say unto you, he that forgiveth not his neighbor's trespasses, when he says that he repents, the same hath brought himself under condemnation."?Book of Mormon, Mosiah 25:31. New Testament: "Forgive, and ye shall be forgiven."? Luke 6:37. "But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses."?Matt. 6:15. "Then came Peter to him and said, Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? 'Till seven times?" Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee, until seven times, but, until seventy times seven,'?Matt. 18:21-22.  Old Testament: "If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, and will heal their land."?II Chronicles 7:14. "And our Father Adam spake unto the Lord and said, Why is it that men must repent and be baptized in water? And the Lord said unto Adam, Behold, I have forgiven thee thy transgression in the Garden of Eden."?Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, 6:53. The withholding of forgiveness in the face of repentance is unmistakable evidence of sinfulness in the one from whom forgiveness is sought. He is in a worse state than the repentant sinner from the fact that he has no promise of repentance; indeed, he is face to face with the divine declaration that God will not forgive anyone who is in an unforgiving state of mind. The unforgiving is not only in a state of theological sin, but is guilty of psychological folly. His heart is hardened and his mind is blinded by the bias of selfishness. Hate always hurts the hater more than it does the hated. Of all holdings, that of grudge holding is the most unprofitable, even family pouting never pays. Apology, which is the simplest form of expressing repentance, will be accepted just to the extent that culture has made its way into the household. At the apex of adolescence. The utmost care should be taken to avoid the exaggeration of the consequences of failure, and strong emphasis should be placed upon the glory of success. This is the age where the imagination may reach over into conscientiousness, and magnify mistakes into sins, and sins into crimes, and the fear of perdition sometimes not only befogs but literally obscures the light of hope. This accounts for the fact that this period is the one in which despair claims more suicide victims than at any other period in life. It is the period when soul-sickness is most prevalent, and the soul then needs more than anything else the tonic of forgiveness in theory and in practice. Forgiveness, however, should neither be taught nor practiced to the exclusion of a high sense of responsibility, resting upon self-respect and the respect for others. The boys were made weaklings, if they were not wicked, who could steal oranges from a fruit stand, eat them, go around a corner into an alleyway, pray God for forgiveness, and start on another raid with their consciences perfectly at ease so far as the former theft was concerned. And yet, religious training concerning God's forgiveness may be carried on counter to ethics, in a direction  exactly opposite to ethics, and produce results just such as this case indicates. Heart Forgiveness and Lip Forgiveness: When forgiveness is whole-hearted, it becomes everlasting, like God's forgiveness, and the offense, if it cannot be buried in forgetfulness, is kept in the tomb of silence, and nothing short of its identical repetition will be permitted to be resurrected in the presence of the forgiven offender or revealed to others in his absence. With the Lord's forgiveness comes the pledge that the forgiven sin shall be held no more in his remembrance, and if the forgiven sin of another fall within the range of one's remembrance, both justice and mercy require that it be not seized and held up by the hand of unkindess. The carrying of other people's faults and the confessing of other people's sins is a self-imposed task that bends us away from the line of spiritual uprightness. Taunting: Domestic taunting makes of fireside forgiveness a sort of social mockery, and should be fought to a finish by faith and works. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Discuss the proposition: Grudge-holding is the most unprofitable of holding. S 2. If the Lord had pursued the petulant policy of refusing to speak to the transgressor even before repentance, what would the first prayer have amounted to? 3. Discuss the cultural and religious value of the habit of apologies and their acceptance in the family ptayer? 4. Apply this couplet to the necessity of self-forgiveness: U "Arise, if the past detain you, Its sunshine and sorrow forget, No chain so unworthy to bind you, As those of a vain regret." 5. Give a practical illustration of Doctrine and Covenants, 64:11. 6. Show that the person who is unwilling to forgive cannot consistently partake of the bread in the sacrament service.