[Vol9 | March 1922 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson IV - Social Service - Intellectual Leadership in the]

LESSON IV. Social Service (Fourth Week in May) INTELLECTUAL LEADERSHIP IN THE HOME "The glory of God is intelligence," said the Prophet Joseph. And also, in revelation, we are given the comman ment to "Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made make you free." The Jews, to whom Jesus was speaking, answefed and said, "We are 'Abraham's seed, and have never yet been 174 RELIFF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, ye shall be made free? Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, every one that committeth sin is the bondservant of sin, and the bondservant abideth not in the house forever; the son abideth forever."?St. John 8:32-35. Thus intelligence means freedom, riches of eternal life, the "Glory of God," whereas ignorance means bondage, sin and death. Our experience bears out in every respect this truth. Light and intelligence makes for righteousness and freedom, ignorance leads to sin and bondage, and is the cause of untold misery.  ' The home is required to radiate truth and intelligence., "But I have commanded you to bring up your children in | light and truth." And this means, of course, first of all, moral and spiritual truth, the "doctrine of the kingdom," but it also means general information that can be obtained from "the best books" "Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth;... Things which are at home, things which are abroad, the wars and perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land, and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms." Doctrine and Covenants 88:79. The ideal home is one that is broad enough in its interests to discuss and direct in all lines of general information. This does not imply that the family should know all about science and art, history, religion and government. That would be impossible. Nor does it imply that the father and mother must have a high degree of scholarship. What is wanted is an inetellectual spirit that will stimulate a desire for truth, a spirit of learning that will radiate to every member of the family group. ' Tt implies, also, that there be enough knowledge of the attainments of our civilization along lines of science, art, literature, history, etc., at least to introduce the younger members of the family to the blessings of God's revealed truth, scientific as well as religious. INTELLECTUAL FACILITIES IN THE HOME Every home should have a library which covers the field above indicated. It need not be a large one. The average home cannot afford many books, but it can afford a few good ones. In fact, twenty five books well selected may cover in a general way the world of knowledge, as it is now attained in our civili-  zation. The principal of the local school, or some well-read man in the community, may be able to offer excellent suggestions to a family planning or developing a home library. One or two good magazines dealing with current questions, such as the Literary Digest or the Atlantic Monthly, besides the publications of our Church, should serve to keep the members of a family well informed concerning the great questions of the day. In the selection of library books and magazines due regard should be taken of the various members of the family. The immature minds with their simple interest in pictures and stories should not be neglected. A recent bulletin of the University of Utah, written by Professor J. H. Paul and published by the Deseret Book Company, entitled Six Years of Home Reading contains a list of books, recommended by the author for the various ages and degrees of intelligence as we have them in the home. The book recommended covers a great variety of subjects. ADVANTAGES OF AN INTELLECTUAL HOME LIFE i] It is a common expression among school teachers that they can detect in school children the intellectual life of the home. Some children come to school with a rich world of information from which they can draw in their study of the problems of' nature, of history and science. These children also have a keen interest in the study of the many problems presented in school life. They are the first to lead out in discussion. Other children have no such background and consequently they lag behind in nearly every subject that calls for wide intellectual experience. What is true in the school room is true in every relation of life where our children come in contact with people. The home training always comes forth for good or for ill. OPEN-MINDEDNESS MUST BE TAUGHT IN THE HOME And lastly, the attitude of the home towards a free and open discussion of all vital questions is sure to give the child a tremendous advantage in his later investigations of scientific, political, economic, and religious truths. One of our greatest leaders of thought, in modern times, John Stewart Mill, attributes his attainments to the training he received from his father in intellectual honesty. He was always taught to let the facts and principles revealed in his study govern his conclusions. In short, he was taught to be open-minded. This is the true spirit of the gospel. We are always open to truth. We adhere to the commandment: "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning even by study and also by faith."  QUESTIONS 1, What scriptural evidence have we to show that to seek intelligence is a divine law given to man? 2. Does the commandment to seek "knowledge and truth" extend beyond that of seeking religious bl Do we have scriptural evidence of this? 3. What is the meaning of the expression: "The bondage of ignorance?" 4. What facilities does the home afford for intellectual training? 5. Is intellectual home leadership necessarily confined to father and mother? 6. Do you think that it weakens the influence of father or mother if a high school son or daughter should assume intellectual leadership in the home along certain lines of science? { 7. State the advantages that come to children reared in intellectual homes. 8. Place the following in the order of their importance from the standpoint of the welfare of the child: Healthy homes. Moral homes. Homes with spiritual atmosphere. Wealthy homes. Intellectual homes. 9. What is the meaning of open-mindedness? How strongly do you think this principle should be advocated in the home? References: Doctrine and Covenants, 88:77-80; 117:122; 93:24-48; = 7; 130:18-19. Deuteronomy 11:19. The following two books contain good supplementary material for the lessons on the home: Cope: Religious Education in the Family, published by the University of Chicago Press, Chicago, Ill. Mosiah Hall: A Practical Sociology, published by Charles Scribner's Sons, Chicago, Ill.