[Vol9 | March 1922 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Alexander Neibaur Susa Young Gates]

Alexander Neibaur Susa Young Gates Alexander Neibaur was born in Ehrenbriestein, France, Jan. 8, 1808. It was then a part of Alsace-Lorraine, but is now German territory. The parents of Alexander were Nathan and Rebecca Peretz Neibaur. They were of the higher class of Hebrews. This is evidenced by the fact that the father was well educated, being a physician and surgeon, as well as a facile linguist. He intended his son Alexander for the Jewish ministry and had him educated for a rabbi to elucidate the Law of Moses; but when the boy was seventeen years old he decided that he did not wish this career, and chose the profession of a surgeon and dentist. He attended the University of Berlin, graduating before he was twenty years of age. He set out on his travels immediately after leaving the University, and became converted to the Christian faith. He finally located for some time in the city of Preston, England, where he met and married an excellent wife by name, Ellen Breakel. Here the couple were found on July 30, 1837, when the first "Mormon' elders came over to open the gospel door to the British mission at the famous "Cock-pit," Preston, England. The story of his conversion is full of interest. It was one morning very early in the city of Preston, when the misty sunshine swept down with as much ardor into the green lanes and narrow city streets of England as is ever permitted to that land of cloudy skies. The women of Preston, in common with their kind, had the custom of going out before sunrise to give their front stone steps and porticos a coat of "whitewash," as it was called. We of America see this custom kept up only in quaint old Philadelphia. It was on one of these mornings that the young wife of Alexander Neibaur was on her knees polishing to the last degree of whiteness her own steps, when a neighbor challenged her attention with the remark: "Have you seen the new ministers from America?" "No," answered the younger woman, still intent on her work. "Well," asserted the neighboring housewife laconically, as befits great tidings, "They claim to have seen an angel."; "What?" rang out an abrupt voice from an inner chamber, as the young Hebrew husband sprang from his couch and put his head out of the window.. "What's that you say?" The information was repeated for his benefit, and hurriedly dressing, the young man secured the address of the American  preachers of this strange religion; and not many hours after he was in close conversation with Elders Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards, Orson Hyde and Joseph F ielding. His was the swift conversion of spirit that demanded baptism on the spot. One of the first questions he asked, was, "You have a book?" And nothing could satisfy that eager, inspired question till he had a copy of the Book of Mormon in his own hands, for he had seen it, so he declared, in his night visions and recognized the Book on sight. He was waiting for the great message. He was advised by the elders to wait and investigate further. Taking the book home with him, he read it through in three days. He said later that he could neither eat nor sleep till he had mastered all the contents of that wondrous volume. When he returned the book he offered himself for baptism, but was advised to wait till he was prepared. He answered, "Gentlemen, I am prepared." And his subsequent life found him always prepared. He accepted the counsel, however, and waited till the following spring. It is related that in one of the gatherings of the Saints in Preston at this time, he heard the gift of tongues exercised. He arose and interpreted the tongue, telling the congregation afterwards that he did not do this by the gift of the Spirit, but naturally, as the former speaker had used the Hebrew tongue, which was, of course, the language of his birth. Brother Neibaur's wife could not see the gospel so quickly nor so easily as did her husband. He sat long evenings reading the Book of Mormon to his wife, and she enjoyed it, she said, as it was a "pretty story;" but she could not see what it had to do with religion or with the Prophet Joseph Smith as such. The final conversion of the mother came after a remarkable manifestation which was vouchsafed to her. She saw, in a dream, the sky covered with small clouds the size of a man's face, each cloud formed around and repeating the face of one man. After gazing at this peculiar phenomenon for some time, the clouds all dropped down to earth; and with that she awoke, filled with wonder and amazement, for it was the face of Willard Richards who was one of the second company of elders to carry the gospel to England. She knew at once the significance of this dream and was filled with the spirit of testimony. The gospel message was clear and beautiful to her ever after that, and she was ready to listen to its teachings and to go forth in the waters of baptism. His baptism occurred on April 9th, 1838, under the hands of Elder Isaac Russell. This step was not taken without many sacrifices and trials. His new friends and former associates: were indeed bitter and relentless in their opposition to the further conversion of this brilliant young Hebrew. He had made his i  friends through his business associations as well as through the genial manner and the honest nature of his life and dealings. He was of considerable promise, and all who knew him deplored the step he had taken and tried to dissuade him from wrecking his life. Alexander Neibaur was a Jew, and he was the first of his race to accept the gospel; but he was also of that small and courageous company who heard the first gospel message borne to Great Britain by President Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards, Orson Hyde, Joseph Fielding and Isaac Russell. There is a story told by the family concerning the father of Alexander which well illustrates the invincible character of his family and of his race. Nathan Neibaur, the father, was a physician and surgeon in the French army under Napoleon Bonaparte; and indeed, Dr. Neibaur was closely associated with that great soldier of fortune through his own brilliant powers as a linguist and as an interpreter. When the First Empire was at the point of decline, Napoleon visited the home of his former attache in Ehrenbreitstein, endeavoring to induce Dr. Neibaur again to enter his service, this time as a spy. Great sums of money were added to other inducements offered to Dr. Nathan Neibaur to come out of his retirement and use his gifts to assist the waning fortunes of the great Emperor. But the spirit of the Jew was as relentless in its own purpose as was that of his proud imperial guest, and it was Napoleon who was defeated at this private encounter of wills. 'Such was also the spirit of his son, Alexander Neibaur. When he was convinced of the mission of Jesus as a Savior, he left his father's roof-tree to become a soldier of the cross; and thus when the gospel star shone upon his horizon, he hesitated not in following its course, though it led him across the sea, into dangers manifold, and swept from him all former friends and associates. His was the spirit that followed Moses and Joshua, and across his fireside altar he might well have inscribed, as did Joshua of old—''As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." In the spirit of dauntless courage and unshaken purpose, the young Hebrew made his careful preparations to join the second company of Saints that took the ship from a foreign land to emigrate to Zion. He sailed from Liverpool, Sunday, February 7, 1841, in the ship Sheffield, under the leadership of Hiram Clark, with a company of 235 Saints on board. He was a student well aware of the value of history and record keeping. He began a daily journal with the sailing of that ship in which he faithfully set down the events, both great and small of that historic voyage, |  where the men and women in the steerage crowded together with little classification or regard to comfort and where the passengers in that section of the vessel were obliged to carry and cook their own food. Arriving in Nauvoo, Brother Neibaur was welcomed by his former friends, Heber C. Kimball, and Willard Richards. Under the hands of Willard Richards and John Taylor he was ordained to the Priesthood, January 18, 1843, and ordained a seventy in 1844. He was honored with the friendship of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and was fired with the same passionate zeal for the gospel and the fearless Latter-day Prophet which ~ characterized the leaders and other faithful members of the Church. He had the extreme pleasure of becoming instructor to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the German and Hebrew languages, and treasured all his life the blessedness of that memory and association. Asked by one of his daughters in later life how it was that he came to accept the gospel, he replied that he was converted to the mission of Christ long before he ever heard a Latter-day Saint elder preach. He added that subsequently he had been visited in dreams and visions and had seen the Book of Mormon brought forth in vision; also that he had become familiar with the endowment ceremonies in the same mystic manner. On this point he once had a conversation with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and told the Prophet many things that had been manifested to him in his early youth. The prophet put his arm affectionately around Brother Neibaur's shoulder and said, "You are indeed one of us, Brother Neibaur." Elder Neibaur was industrious and frugal, one who owed no man and who hewed with justice to the line, while he sunk the plummet of honesty to its foundation in his own soul. He practiced his profession of dentistry when there was a chance, which was not often in that pioneer struggling community. But he could and did work at other things which brought him sufficient to care for his rapidly growing family without assistance from any man. He was as austere in his pride of good birth and clean inheritance as were any of his famous ancestors, but the gospel mellowed this severity and gave softened lines to a character that might otherwise have been cold and intense. With the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, he was as deeply bereft as any man who suffered that matchless blow. His children still tell the tale of that dreadful morning when they heard the messengers ride through the streets of Nauvoo, crying out their loss to the stricken inhabitants of Zion. Bowed to the earth, the family of Elder Neibaur had unusual occasion to fear  the clouds of persecution which gathered so swiftly over the fair city of Nauvoo; for the mother was about to bring another soul into the world, and they were troubled. The atmosphere that brooded over the stricken city of Nauvoo was intensely gloomy and all the people were filled with apprehension. It. Was a time to try men's souls. Many of the leading elders were drawing off, and the spirit of apostasy and rancor filled the air. Alexander Neibaur hated a traitor. He was not a large man, but he was fearless and outspoken in his character. He had sound convictions and the spirit of discernment; so that he knew the wolfish eyes even when the skin of the sheep hung down over the ears of the traitor. One day William Law met him in the streets of Nauvoo shortly after the martyrdom. Law was vicious in his attacks upon those who criticised his own actions, and when he held out his hand to shake hands with Elder Neibaur, it was a brave thing for the Hebrew elder to withhold his hand and say firmly, "William Law, I never give my hand to a traitor." On another occasion he went into the store to buy some vinegar; he had his little stone jug with him. Within, he found a man cursing and blaspheming the name of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Instantly the stone jug was slung into the face of the blasphemer by the swift hand of the Hebrew, and as it crashed and broke on his skull, the fiery young Jew demanded, "What do you know about the Prophet Joseph Smith?" On still another occasion Elder Neibaur was working at his profession of dentistry at a small town called Farmington, Iowa, securing means to carry his family out into the wilderness and away from the murderous mobs in Missouri and Illinois. On the table of the room where he was at work, his client had deposited his pistol. As Elder Neibaur rested for a moment from his work, the man in the chair began to blaspheme in the most awful and bloodcurdling manner the name and memory of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Elder Neibaur rebuked him sternly and rigorously defended the character of the Prophet. The blackguard jerked up his pistol and threatened to shoot Elder Neibaur if he did not hold his peace. Suiting the action to the word he raised the pistol and snapped off every barrel in the face of the elder, but for some strange reason, not one took effect. The brother of the blasphemer came in from an adjoining room, and picking up the revolver he emptied each barrel outside the door in the air. He turned to his brother and asked what could have ailed his hand. Brother Neibaur told him that he guessed his guardian angel must have interfered to prevent his own blood from being shed.  Elder Neibaur worked on the Nauvoo house as well as on the Nauvoo Temple, but he was not a laboring man by nature or constitution; and he was ill many times during his enforced heavy physical labor. On one occasion, he was so reduced that the Prophet himself came to visit him, and promised him help and gave him his blessing. Several days afterwards, Elder Neibaur accompanied the prophet to visit the Church-farm, then in charge of Father Lot. "Can you spare Brother Neibaur one bushel of corn?" asked the prophet of Father Lot. "No, sir, we cannot possibly spare one bushel." "Then, Brother Lot, let him have two or three bushels of corn, for he has got to have it." And Brother Neibaur got it. It was while living in Nauvoo that Elder Neibaur wrote some of his best poetry. He was his own severest critic. And with the modesty of a truly genuine poet, he was loth to advertise his work. One of his poems, now printed in our Hymn Book is the famous "Come, thou glorious day of promise." No lovelier nor more engaging hymn is found than this voice of hope and promise from the pen of a baptized Jew. Another hymn not so frequently sung yet inspiring and poetic in all its tuneful strains: "Let Judah rejoice in this glorious news, The sound of glad tidings will soon reach the Jews, And save them far, far from oppression and fear, Deliv'rance proclaim to their sons far and' near." It is related by one of his daughters that one day he was singing hymns, as was his frequent custom, and some question was asked of her father concerning this hymn, who repeated it for her. "Yes," he admitted, "this was written by your humble servant." When asked why his name did not appear attached to it, _he replied that he had taken the poem to Brother Parley P. Pratt,. Who had edited it in some places. And this small assistance caused the sensitively honest soul of Elder Neibaur to shrink from asserting his authorship. Another exquisite piece of rich Jewish poetry is the Lamentation written at the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch. After the martyrdom, the Neibaurs, in common, with all other Saints, were extremely anxious to get away from the mobinfested spot—-Nauvoo. But the wife was too near confinement to leave until her time was over. Elder Neibaur was ordered out with the militia just before the battle of Nauvoo; but he told the brethren of the situation of his wife. Accordingly, as soon as she 138 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE -was confined, he left her, and was absent for two weeks, in the midst of the danger and uproar of that terrible encounter. The wife was sick as well with chills and fever as with her natural confinement. Only once did the husband come home during the silent watches of a stormy night to have prayers with his loved family. What a scene! The mother sick in her bed with shaking ague still very faint and ill from her birth-sickness, and the little children crying about her with hunger and fear. Who was to comfort, and who was to succor? But this devoted family had learned their lesson of faith and trust, even though life itself were upon the altar. A terse extract from Elder Neibaur's journal at this point shows the conditions of that time and place: 1846, Sept. 1. 'Mob advanced towards Joseph's farm—fired three cannon shots at night. "Quartered at Squire Wells——-Mob moved towards William Law's field firing thirty-five cannon balls— Myself being placed in a cornfield opposite Hyrum's farm to spring a mine.— Two forts erected in the night—On the 12th mob makes an attack to get into Nauvoo.—Brother William Anderson and his son, belonging to the 5th Quorum of Seventy being shot. Mob repelled—with a number wounded."— * * * The Neibaurs lived in the outskirts of the city of Nauvoo. To them came one day a body of the state troops, and down the streets they marched. Into the green, fresh garden of the Neibaurs they turned their horses, breaking down the fence without leave or license, and the labor of a year was trampled out of sight in a few ruthless hours. But the Lord preserved the helpless family and they still prayed and hoped. The day after the battle of Nauvoo, another division of the army came down tpon them, and the leader who was a tall, massive soldier rode up to the Neibaur house with his drawn sword in his hand. "Were you in the fight of yesterday?' he asked of Alexander Neibaur who stood in his doorway keeping his helpless family behind him. "Yes, I was," answered he. "Have you a gun?" again rang out the. Questioning challenge. "Yes, I have.". "Bring it to me. The general wants every gun that was in that fight." "Find my gun, if you want it," replied the sharp voice of Elder Neibaur. The officer looked grimly into the fearless eyes of the young Hebrew,  "Take me to your general," said Neibaur. "I am qui'e willing to see him." And as he spoke he offered the Masonic sign for he was a Mason of high degree. Instantly the officer turned, dropped his sword, and after a few more ineffectual words he swung away, his men filing up the lonely street after him. Then followed the Exodus from Illinois. Ah, the farce of those bargainings of Nauvoo homes; for men who had good homes and thrifty farms sold them for a horse, a wagon, a cow or even for a harness to complete a scanty outfit in which to escape to the great untrodden West. Young Neibaur had a wagon all finished but the irons, and he was trying to complete his work in the midst of the turmoil. Very shortly after this the Neibaur family crossed the river with their scanty effects in company with the other refugees and camped on the other side. The storms beat down upon that assembled host with merciless fury; the water soaked so slowly into the ground that there was a perfect ooze of wet and deep mud everywhere. The young mother with her babe only a fortnight old was taken by courtesy to the tiny tent of a neighbor who agreed to let her sleep under the partial shelter of their own drear canvas roof. During the day she sat under the bows of the wagon which Elder Neibaur had just completed when he was driven out of Nauvoo. And covered as these bows were with old carpets, it was even more shelter than many had on that dismal march. But the chills which had so long afflicted the young mother, took their flight, and she began to mend. This they all felt was a special dispensation of Providence. From here David Fullmer took them up to the Grove. * ok In common with' a portion of their fellow refugees, the Neibaur family spent the winter of 1846-7 in Bonaparte, Iowa: in the spring of 1847 they moved to Winter Quarters. When the pioneers who had been to Salt Lake Valley returned, and word went out that the first company of 1848 would make ready to move westward, the soul of Elder Neibaur was wrought up within him. He had spent some time working and had secured sufficient food-stuffs and other materials to go to the Valley, but he had no wagon or oxen. He was advised to return to his work across the river and wait till he had a complete outfit, but he said, "Brother Brigham, I never turn back after I have put my hand to the plow. Besides, my wife is sick and if I don't get her out of this place, she will die. I have plenty of other materials but need wagons and teams,"  "God be with you, Brother Neibaur, I wish I could see every Latter-day Saint show the same determined spirit. You go to Sister Knight and tell her to let you have her wagons and teams and then you can send them back to her with the returning elders in the summer. You can pay her by giving her a good cow or whatever trade you may both agree upon." When he visited the widow Lydia Knight she was loth to give up her own plan of going to the Valley, but when she knew that President Young had advised it, she said, "Yes, certainly," and thus it was arranged. There was still another yoke of oxen required, and this was obtained from Joseph Young. Thus the teams were made up of one good yoke of oxen as wheelers, a yoke in the lead consisting of one cow and one ox, while a yoke of cows went in between. It was a good outfit, and out of the six cows owned by Elder Neibaur, he paid two, one to Joseph Young and one to Sister Knight on their coming into the Valley. And thus they came, the unaccustomed hands of the Jewish scholar holding the whip which guided the great oxen, while his wife trudged along holding the rope which went over the cow's horns, and carrying a baby in her arms. The pity and the glory of such epics of pioneer travel! When once in the Valley, Elder Neibaur shared the toils and the privations of pioneer life here. He was not fitted for hard or difficult labor, but he was industrious and he did as did his associates, made the best of all his opportunities. He did not go in'o debt nor was he a burden to any one. He taught his family to honor the God of the Former and Latter-day Saints. He taught them lessons of morality, of frugality, and of honesty and independence. Elder Neibaur made the adobes for his own house which was the crude one-roomed, mud-roofed affair of those very primitive days. He added a log lean-to afterwards. Then as his fortunes mended, he later built him a good adobe house on Second South and Second East where he reared his large and industrious family. He was the pioneer dentist of Salt Lake City, he was also the pioneer match manufacturer. He made good matches at a time when such things were the luxuries of the rich, for the poor or the very frugal lighted their candles with twisted lighters or a coal from the fireplace. Elder Neibaur was also engaged each winter for some years in teaching German classes. He was himself an accomplished linguist. He spoke seven languages. English, he mastered, of course. He read Latin and Greek and of course spoke and wrote Hebrew fluently. Then he had-some knowledge of Spanish and knew French well, so that he was  " consulted by the early Utah students and writers of those ays. Elder Neibaur married two good women. He lost his first wife December 14th, 1870, she being the mother of all his children. Four sons and seven daughters grew to manhood and womanhood, and reared large families. Elder Neibaur himself lived till the 15th of December, 1883. He died in Salt Lake City, Utah. He was the father of fourteen children, eighty-three grand-children and thirteen great grand-children. Today his flock numbers four hundred and twenty-seven. Surely he was like David of old, blessed beyond men, for his quiver was filled with his descendants. Shortly before his death his son said to him, "Father you have been telling us of your long and hard experience, and we have listened with intense affection and interest. But let me ask you, is it worth it all? Is the gospel worth all this sacrifice?" The glow of testimony and of truth lighted the torches in the dimming eyes of that ancient Hebrew prophet and poet and he lifted his voice in firm and lofty assurance as he said: "Yes! Yes! And more! I have seen my Savior. I have seen the prints in his hands! I know that Jesus is the Son of God, and I know that this work is true and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I would suffer it all and more, far more than I have ever suffered for that knowledge even to the laying down of my body on the plains for the wolves to devour." Elder Neibaur was paralyzed for three weeks before his death and yet his mind was not dimmed. A short time before the end, his face suddenly lit up and his countenance brightened. He cast his eyes upward as if he could see far into upper distant spaces. "What do you see, father?" they asked. The dying man murmured clearly, "Joseph—Hyrum—" then his weary eyes closed to open in the heavenly home of the Saints and prophets. With the burning testimony of truth on his lips he closed his life mission, laid down his body, and his soul went to meet and mingle with the redeemed of God. He was a soldier of the Cross, and his armor was never removed, only concealed under the common vesture of a toiler among men. He had lived for truth, had struggled and contended for that precious heritage of liberty so long denied his race, and he was prepared to carry on his work of teaching and instructing his kindred dead in the glorious realms of Light and Truth. Who can say what work he has not already accomplished? Who can declare the results of his labors or the weight of his perfect testimony. Of such is the kingdom of heaven.