Homemaking Skills Developed Through the Work-Meeting Program Velma N. Simonsen Member Relief Society General Board WHEN the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society, he stated that the purpose of the organization was "to care for the needy, and to save souls." Through the wisdom of our leaders, a day has been provided whereby both of these aims may be served. This is the work meeting. This day is comparable in its cultural value to other prescribed courses, and may require more thorough preparation than any of the other courses to make it one of the best departments in the Society. It seems that there are two real objectives for each work meeting-first, to plan a very vital program, and second, to get the women to participate in that program. Sisters, the day is yours. Plan it thoroughly and wisely, and don't be guilty of planning something that will just "take up the time." The greatest strength of the Relief Society lies in the fact that direction and guidance are given it by the priesthood of God. Today, the* leaders have charged us to strengthen the home and to teach our members, especially the younger sisters, homemaking skills. Work meeting is our day of opportunity to fulfill that charge. It must be a day of training for homemaking skills. It is said that a man may build a house, but only a woman can build a home. Are mass production and machine-made articles which lack beauty and individuality taking us far afield, and are we losing not only the ability to create, but also the appreciation of fine workmanship? If so, work meeting is our opportunity to develop again these skills and appreciations. We must use this day to instil in our sisters a love for beauty and an ability to create it. It is an opportunity to encourage the incompetent home-maker to participate! I remember a period in my life when, as a teen-age girl, I was careless in the upkeep of my room. My mother conceived the plan of twice a week cleaning everything from the top of my dresser and putting a fine, clean, white dresser scarf on it. It wasn't very long before I saw to it that the rest of the room was as clean as the dresser scarf. And so it is with the woman who has never learned homemaking skills. Let her participate in beauty in Relief Society work meeting and it will carry over into her home. The woman who says, '1 do not wish to learn" creates another problem. An effort must be made to find some activity which will especially appeal to her. Getting people to attend work meetings for the first time may call for a personal contact. The most successful work days are those that meet the needs of the women best, whether it be in making a better loaf of bread or sewing a finer seam. The degree of success you achieve depends upon your attitude toward work meeting and upon your prayerful and thoughtful efforts. It has been said: A task without a vision is drudgery, A vision without a task is a dream. But a task with a vision is VICTORY. Relief Society has given us the task; Relief Society has given us the vision. May the Lord bless us with Victory.