HERITAGE.
	[Suggested by reading Drummond’s
“Ascent of Man.”]

	When the first man and woman had left
the seclusion of the Garden, crossed the
river of Possibility, and stood upon the
shore of Time, ready for their onward
journey toward Posterity, the Angel of
Opportunity appeared to them and said:
	“Man, make a prayer to Nature and
Life. Petition wisely, for whatsoever you
ask shall be the heritage of your sex for-
ever.”
	And the man thought and thought,
then, looking up at the glowing sun, ex-
claimed: “O Nature, do not thrust your
greatest throes upon me, nor persist in
making me remember pain.”
	The angel said to the woman, “Pray
thou also with wisdom.”
	As the woman brought low her head
she softly said: O Nature do not allow me
to grow callous nor empty. Hold me
close to the joys so few, the sorrows so
many, that I may gain strength from
each.”
	Again the Angel bade the man pray,
and once more he stood and looked toward
the glowing sun saying: “O Life, give
me joy and pleasure: Do not unload upon
me the sorrows of others; do not open my
eyes to pangs I cannot assuage. Give me
sweets and the power to cast aside regret.
	“Sister,” said the Angel, “pray.”
The women bent still lower and in a
softer voice uttered her petition: “O Life,
“Do not take away from me the memory
of sorrow, the shell holding the kernel of
joy; do not allow me to become blind to
the debt I owe others. Make me tender;
give a woman’s portion, pain—that I may
attain my full stature.”
	And that the Angel’s promise might be
redeemed, from that hour there was im-
planted in man the overmastering love
of pleasure, and engrafted in the heart of
woman the undying instincts of mother-
hood.—New Lippincott.


An American girl has been chosen to
paint a portrait of Queen Alexandra during
the coming season. She is Miss Ann West
Shaw, a grandniece of Benjamin West,
whose work first gave America a claim to
art.  Miss Shaw is a St. Louis girl.
While in London a few months ago she
painted a minature of the wife of Sir Stan-
ley Clarke, chief equerry to King Edward.
It is said that Lady Clarke’s influence
brought the young artist the commission to
paint the Queen.


