[Column 1]
who are too far from headquarters to get
verbal advice on these matters; and there-
fore present the following suggestions as a
guide to assist in making a conformity in
the gatherings throughout the State.
	Each president of the Relief Society and
each president of the Y. L. N. M. I. A. is
hereby appointed Chairman to organize a
Committee and hold a Peace Demonstration
in a suitable place, hall or house.
	If two or more wards desire to unite no
objection will be raised. The State Com-
mittee would be deeply gratified, however,
if a gathering be held in each ward.
	The Presidents of the Relief Society Stake
organizations and of the Y. L. N. M. I.
Stake Associations are considered members
of the State Committee and will be ex-
pected to use their influence and lend their
assistance to promote the interests of the
movement. 
	It is further suggested that in naming
committees, it would be desirable to con-
sider women of different religious beliefs
and invite them to take part and unite in the
demonstrations.
	The record of each meeting should be
made and forwarded to the Chairman of
the State Committee, Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, Care EXPONENT Office, Salt Lake
City, Utah.
	The Record should contain certain items
of information:
	1st.—Place of meeting.
	2nd.—Number of persons present.
	3rd.—Number of speakers.
	4th.—Names of speakers.
	5th—General tone of meeting.
	6th.—Statement whether Resolutions
were adopted or not.
	7th.—Degree in which the clergy in
your locality responded to invitation to
prepare the public mind for the demon-
stration.
	The Committee on Program suggest the
following subjects as suitable for papers or
addresses: Purpose of the Peace Demon-
stration, what it may accomplish. The
Hague Conference. Fatherhood of God
and Brotherhood of Man. Moral Deter-
ioration Incident to War. The Spiritual
Aspect of War. Peace poems and songs to
be interspersed.
	For schools eighth grade pupils might
write papers on any one of the subjects
given. Lower grades give Peace poems
and songs.
	The Committee on Decoration and
Sentiments have not completed their report
in reference to decorating but will report
later, however they have made a careful
selection of Peace sentiments which are
given here:
	“The pen is mightier than the sword.”
	Take away the sword! States can be
saved without it.—Richelieu.
	Peace hath her victories,
	No less renowned than war.—Milton.
	Where discord roars, Peace shall the
tumult still.—J. Dunbar Hylton.
	A happier gift than heaven’s own fire
	Is heaven’s sweet gift of peace.—Arthur
	J. Lochport.
	Loyalty, Peace and Arbitration.
	“A time will come when the science of
destruction will bend before the arts of
peace.”
	“How lovely are the messengers that
preach us the Gospel of Peace.”
	“Glory to God in the highest, and on
earth peace and goodwill to men.”

[Column 2]
	“Blessed are the peace makers, for they
shall be called the children of God.” 
	“For what does it profit a man to gain
the whole world and lose his own soul.”
	“Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thy-
self.
	“And He shall judge among the nations
and shall rebuke many people and they
shall beat their swords into ploughshares,
and their spears into pruning hooks;
nation shall not lift up sword against
nation, neither shall they learn war any
more.”
	“Provoke not your children to wrath.”
	“Stand therefore having your loins girt
about with truth, and having on the
breastplate of righteousness; and your feet
shod with the preparation of the Gospel of
Peace.”
	“And this I pray that your love may
abound yet more and more in knowledge
and in all judgment.”
	“The peace of God which passeth all
understanding, shall keep your hearts and
minds through Christ Jesus.”
	Respectfully Submitted
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
