MISS ANTHONY IN PHILADELPHIA.
	Fully recovered from her recent illness
Miss Susan B. Anthony enjoyed greeting
several hundred persons at a reception 
given her in Philadelphia last week by the
political science section of the New Century
Club.
	The following concerning Miss Anthony
in the Philadelphia Bulletin will be of
interest to her many friends:
	“I feel new made,” said Miss Anthony
when she was seen at the home of her
niece, Mrs. Helen Mosher James, 4716
Windsor Avenue.
	The hand that has so valiantly fought
for the ballot box and for rights equal to
those of men was very effeminately en-
gaged. Miss Anthony was adorning a
black silk waist with black lace, and while
the needle was industriously employed she
talked.
	Miss Anthony showed but little evidence
of her recent illness. Her heavy white
hair was old-fashionedly parted squarely
in the centre and bunched flat across her
broad brow. Her eyes twinkled behind
her gold-rimmed glasses as she entertain-
ingly kept up the conversation.
	“No, I am campaigning no longer,”
she said. “I am kept busy answering
correspondence. So many women want
me to give them pointers in speech writing
that I am always engaged.
	“I read in your paper the other day of
five girls winning scholarships. It did my
heart good to learn that they were more
than equal to the college men. Then I am
sympathizing with the poor American
girls who have gone to the Philippines to
teach. The Philipino will be allowed to
vote and the teacher won’t have that privi-
lege.
	“I am watching Congress closely, too,”


continued Miss Anthony. “Mrs. Catt and
Miss Shaw, you know, have asked Con-
gress for a congressional commission to
investigate the subject of women’s voting
in Wyoming, Colorado, Utah and Idaho.
Some men say that the women fail to vote.
We want Congress to investigate, and we
will accept the report of such a commision.
The Filipino, Indian and liquor traffic
have separate commissions. I don't see
why the women cannot have one.
	"I have been away from home two months
now and must soon get back. Before I
return, however, I shall visit Mrs. Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton in New York. Mrs.
Stanton will be eighty-seven years old on
her next birthday. She is just four years
older than I am.”—Woman's Journal.


