[Column 1]
LETTER FROM BROOKLYN.
	The Society in Brooklyn was organized
with eleven members by Elder J. H. Gar-
rett, president of the Brooklyn conference,
with Sister Estella Milligan as president,
Sister Sarah McKenna and Sister C. D.
Laine counselors, and Sister Belle Shaffer
secretary and treasurer, on March 6, 1900.
Work was carried on by the officers until
Sister Milligan moved from the Conference.
The society was reorganized on July 27,
1900, with Sister Agnes Rose Lane, presi-
dent, Sister C. D. Laine and Sister Lillian
Stillman, counselor and Sister Belle Shaffer
secretary and treasurer. Since that time
the only change in the organization is the
second counselor, Sister Mary Birchnall,
to fill the vacancy caused by Sister Still-
man moving to Utah.
	The society is now composed of twenty-
four members and our object is the same
as that of other branches of the society
elsewhere. We aim to do relief work
among those who may need it, but make it
a special aim to visit the sick and needy
and also to visit all the Saints and friends
in the conference to help the Elders who
are here as missionaries teach the Gospel.
We hold regular meetings of the society on
the fourth Sunday of every month at the
home of Sister C. D. Laine, at 202 West
23rd St., New York City. These are our

[Column 2]
spiritual meetings and we invite all the
people of the Conference to attend them—
Elders, Saints and friends. The time at
these meetings is taken up by some of the
sisters reading from the Bible and reading
an original composition on some principle
of the Gospel, the subject of the paper is
then open for discussion, and then the rest
of the time is taken up in testimony bear-
ing. We feel that a great amount of good
is done at these meetings by giving us all
a better knowledge of the Gospel truth.
	Once every month the members of the
society meet in a business meeting, and
also once every month we meet at the dif-
ferent homes of the sisters for a sewing
circle. At these we do sewing for those
of our Conference who need help in this
way, especially those with large families.
We have given a number of social gather-
ings to which we invited our friends and
made them acquainted with the members
of the society and also with the Elders and
thereby we think good seed has been
sown that has aided in the missionary work
in our Conference.
	We have in Greater New York a num-
ber of the Saints from Zion, and we appre-
ciate their aid in our society work.
	We have just had the pleasure of having
some of the leaders in Relief Society work
with us: Sister Emmeline B. Wells, Gener-
al Secretary of the Relief Society; Sister
Annie T. Hyde, First Counselor to the
General President, B. W. Smith; Sister Ida
S. Dusenberry, Second Counselor; Sister
Phebe Y. Beattie a member of the General
Board.
	On Tuesday evening, March 4, the
Elders, Saints and friends of the Brooklyn
Conference met at the home of Sister C. D.
Laine and Mrs. Helen Davis, 202 West
23rd St , New York City, to hold their
regular Tuesday night meeting.
	As these sisters who have been men-
tioned, also Sister Christine S. Taylor,
Sister Maria Y. Dougall and others were
there, the meeting was given over into the
hands of the Relief Society, Sister C. D.
Laine, acting president of the society,
presiding in the absence of Sister Agnes
Rose Lane.
	The meeting began by singing, prayer
and the reading of a chapter from the
Bible, after which a few very interesting
and encouraging remarks concerning the
work of women, especially those engaged
in the Relief Society work, were given by
President John G. McQurrie, president of
the Eastern States Mission, and also by
President George A. Goff, President of the
Brooklyn Conference.
	The following named sisters then spoke
in the order given, each bearing a strong
testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel
and of the great work of the Relief Society
all through the Church: Sisters Emmeline
B. Wells, Annie T. Hyde, Ida S. Dusen-
berry, Maria Y. Dougall and Christina S.
Taylor.
	Each said she knew Joseph Smith was a
prophet of God, and that the work he
established was of God. Sister Wells bore
an exceptionally strong testimony that
Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, telling
us of the first time she met him and of her
feelings upon that occasion; her whole
being was so filled with joy that a thrill
went through her like a shock of electricity
when she first shook hands with him.
That testimony has ever remained with
her. Many good, encouraging remarks

[Column 3]
were given for all present and we certainly
had a spiritual feast.
	On Thursday evening, March 6, the
Brooklyn Conference Relief Society and
Elders gave an entertainment in the par-
lors at 250 West 23rd St., New York City,
in honor of our visiting sisters. The enter-
tainment consisted of a short but very
good program, refreshments and dancing.
Speeches were made by President McQuar-
rie, Sister Hyde and Sister Susa Y. Gates.
We had the pleasure of listening to the
beautiful singing of Miss Emma Lucy
Gates and Miss Ruth Wilson, the latter is
here studying. Both were at their best
and all enjoyed their singing greatly.
There were over one hundred present and
all seemed well pleased.
	Monday, March 17, we celebrated the
sixtieth anniversary of the organization of
the Relief Society by holding a meeting in
the A. B. C. Building, 67 West 125th St.,
New York City. There were present the
sisters from Zion, all the Elders of the
Brooklyn Conference, President McQuarrie
and counselors, of the Eastern States
Mission, members of our society and a
number of Saints and friends, about sixty
people present, Sister C. D. Lane presid-
ing. “Singing, Jesus once of humble
birth.” Prayer was offered by Brother
Willard Young. Singing, “Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.”
	Sister Beatie gave a fine talk on the life
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, how, when
and why he organized the Relief Society.
Spoke very feelingly of the life and works
of Sister Emma Smith, the first president
of the society, also of Sister Eliza R. Snow
Sister Zina D. H. Young and Sister B W.
Smith, the present president of the society,
gave some good instructions to the
society here. Sister Dougall also bore a
strong testimony to the truthfulness
of the Gospel and the divine mission of
Joseph Smith as a prophet of God.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates spoke very feeling-
ly of the sacrifices and hardships that the
pioneers of Utah had to undergo. Showed
how so many had suffered for the Gospel’s
sake, and how they had been blessed for so
doing. Urged all to be willing to do the
same and to not think they are the only
ones who had done so.
	Sister Taylor, of Provo, Utah spoke a
short time after which the meeting was
turned into a regular testimony meeting
for all present, especially the sisters. Near-
ly every woman present bore her testi-
mony, a number of whom were not mem-
bers of the Church.
	By request President McQuarrie spoke a
short time and a number of the Elders bore
their testimonies. All felt that the Spirit
of God was with us and we indeed had a
spiritual feast. Sister C. D. Laine ex-
pressed the sentiments of all when she said
that we felt more than blest by having the
great privilege of having the sisters from
Zion with us and that we wished them God
speed on their homeward journey.
	We were asked to remember in our
prayers Sister Lucy Becroft, our lady mis-
sionary from Utah, who had the misfor-
tune some months ago of spraining her
knee.
	 Closing hymn, “O, my Father.” Bene-
diction by President George A. Goff.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
