[Column 1]
LETTER FROM ST. GEORGE. 
	My counselors and myself, of the Relief
Society, Sisters Morris and Bleak, also
Sister Sarah J. Randall, of the Primary,
left St. George, Wednesday, March 19, and
held a Primary meeting in the evening in
Littlefield, Sister Hannah Averson presid-
ing.
	The 20th we traveled on down the Vir-
gen River. The people are making homes
along the river, settling in little patches.
We took dinner with Sister Bodilla M.
Johnson at her home a few miles above
Mosquito Flat, then went on to the town
Mosquit and held a Primary meeting. We
stayed over night at Counselor James
Hughes’ home who made us welcome. At
ten o’clock on the morning of the 21st we
met with the Relief Society and a number
of brethren met with us. We urged the
sisters to live their religion, store grain,
take care of the sick and afflicted, provide
for the poor and needy and comfort the
hearts of those that are called upon
to mourn, to teach the children to pray
from infancy, and they will arise and call
them blessed.
	We went on to Bunkerville and at two
o’clock met with the Relief Society and
celebrated the anniversary of the first
organization. It had not been convenient
to hold a meeting on the 17th, owing to
the people attending the quarterly confer-
ence at St. George. Bishop Bunker,
Counselor Abbott and a number of other
brethren met with us, we truly had a time
of rejoicing. Here seems to be the head-
quarters for raising seedless grapes.
Bishop Edward Bunker is very energetic
and is determined to make it a success. I
trust they will have a packing house in the
near future. We held a Primary meeting
at 5 o’clock, Sister Harriet Earl presiding,
and had a nice time, The children are
very bright.
	March 22 we went on to Overton and
held an evening meeting with the Relief
Society. Bishop John Bunker and ex-
Bishop Jones met with us. We feel very
grateful and encouraged when the breth-
ren meet with us and give us words of
welcome. We rojoiced to mingle our
voices with the Saints.

[Column 2]
	Sunday 23 we had the privilege of talk-
ing to the children of the Sabbath School.
In the afternoon some of the people of
St. Thomas came over and met with us.
We had a very nice meeting and a good
spirit prevailed. Sister Susan Johnson
kindly entertained us.
	We went on to St. Thomas and held an
evening meeting. We had a very enjoy-
able time. President Syphus regretted
that they had not had a Primary meeting.
We told them we could hold one in the
morning if the children would come at 8
o’clock. They said they would come out
any time, so they came at 8 o’clock and we
had a delightful meeting.
	We then traveled thirty-five miles up
the river to Bunkerville and had a lovely
meeting that evening. We rejoiced great-
ly at the good words that Bishop Edward
Bunker and Brother Myron Abbot gave us.
We were kindly entertained at Bishop
Edward Bunker's, and trust that [-]e may
live long upon the earth to do good.
	On the 25th we left the kind people of
this place and arrived at Littlefield, where
we stayed that night. This place is the
corner of Arizona, they have a rock school
house and it seems to be a good place to
make a living. There are many springs
about here and the good people that live
here raise very good fruit.
	On the 26th we left Littlefield for home,
There had been a good bit of snow depos-
ted in the mountains since we left home,
to the joy of the people.
	We arrived home safe that evening,
Brother William Miles having driven our
team and helped us entertain the people.
We were away eight days: held twelve
meetings and traveled one hundred and
ninety miles. I trust we have done some
good in the cause of truth. At our meet-
ing s we read the instructions from the
General Board of the Relief Society about
the 17th of March, and encouraged the
people to plant mulberry trees and work at
the silk industry.
