[Column 1]
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI.
	Here in the great city of Kansas, Mo.,
among her thousands of inhabitants, is a
band of sisters few in number but united
in purpose. That purpose is one that
teaches every true woman to love her
Maker, to honor the priesthood of God, to
prize virtue and purity as her life, to ad-
minister to the wants of the poor and
needy, to visit the afflicted and to love all
God's creatures.
	“The Elevation of Woman” is our
motto, and when woman reaches that
standard, when she can say that her mind
and body are pure, then the day must
come when man must also forsake sin, for
vice and virtue cannot dwell together. For
a wise purpose God has placed us here on
earth. The mission of his daughters is to
become wives and mothers, and when one
is a true wife and mother she has attained
the highest position a woman can occupy
on this earth.
	On the 17th of March the Relief Society
met at 1421 Locust St, at 8 o'clock, with
all the members and their husbands pres-
ent, also the president and counselors of
the Southwestern States mission, eighteen
Elders and the two lady missionaries.
	We sang “We thank Thee, O God for a
prophet.” Prayer was offered by Elder
Charles England. Our president, Sister
Estella Milligan, in a few well chosen

[Column 2]
words expressed her pleasure in being per-
mitted to meet with the sisters on the
sixtieth anniversary of the organization of
the Relief Society.
	Miss Pearl and Mr. William Smedley
then sang.
	President James G. Duffin gave a very
interesting sketch on the organization of
the Relief Society and its progress up to
the present time.
	The lady missionaries were represented
by Sister Sarah M. Giles, who gave in
brief but pointed words our aim in the
mission work: to be true representatives of
the daughters of Zion, to assist our sisters
in gaining the blessings to be obtained
through the Relief Society: one of the
highest aims of which is to qualify the
sisters for the most important and honor-
able position given to woman, that of
being a true mother in Israel, and to train
up her children in righteousness.
	President Estella Milligan then presented
Sister Mary Smedley with a silver bread
tray as a token of remembrance for her un-
tiring efforts while acting as secretary in 
the society. Sister Smedley thanked the
sisters for the token of appreciation and
assured them that the memory of her work
in the Relief Society would always bring
pleasure. She leaves for her home in
Utah, April I.
	The remainder of the evening was spent
in social chat, refreshments were served
and at eleven o’clock benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Adams.
