In an appeal “To the Women of all
Nations” by the women of France, issued
by the Princess Wisznewska she says:
	“Let women enter this Path of Peace
and draw with them future generations.
It is surely in their power to do so, for
they are the first teachers of the young
whose ideas they inspire, and often they
are co-workers with men. They can and
they ought to inculcate by their teachings
and by the persuasive accents of pity,
goodness and tenderness in the young
minds which have been entrusted to them.
It is thus that in all social surroundings
they will be able to contribute powerfully
to transform the warlike spirit and mould
the Spirit of Peace.
	“These mothers loving really their chil-
dren, these patriotic women truly attached
to their country, have undertaken the task
of enobling the human race, of elevating
the National spirit by means of an educa-
tion really worthy of mankind. Guided
by the Central Council of the Alliance
they exchange from country to country acts
of friendship, treaties of Peace whose im-
portance will be recognized in the future, for
hand clasped in hand, mothers, sisters and
wives in France, England, Germany, Russia,
Poland, Norway, Sweden, America and
Spain, etc., etc., invoke, irrespective of
political tendencies, the right of man to
Life, Happiness and Liberty. These noble
women give the example of the most
glorious, the holiest of alliances, that
which is not sealed for conquest by de-
struction and by brutal force, but which is
formed to conquer by the power of Love
and of Peace.”
	Women have, as it were, caught a
glimpse of the dream of universal fraternity.
Hon Charles Sumner, the great statesman
and one of the first and strongest champions
of woman’s emancipation and enfranchise-
ment, in an eloquent address delivered on
Boston Common, July 4, 1845, urged upon
the American nation its duty to take the
lead in a movement for universal peace.
	This year is the third time a call has
been sent out from headquarters to the
women of all lands to make public dem-
onstrations. These gatherings of women
cannot fail to have an effect upon public,
opinion whatever may be said to the con-
trary. Songs, hymns, invocations, addresses
on this subject are sure to produce favorable
results. The rescript of the Czar of Russia
three years ago opened with these words:
“The maintenance of general peace and
the possible reduction of excessive arma-
ments present themselves as ideals toward
which the endeavors of all governments
should be directed.”
	Rev. Charles G. Ames D. D., in an ad-
dress delivered in Boston said: “Shall we
go on sowing dragon’s teeth forever?
There is a more excellent way. We are to
change the animus and objects of de-
plomacy by bringing all the nations into
an alliance. We are to consult together,
not merely how one combination can out-
wit or overpower another, not merely how
to shape our policies according to the
promptings of suspicions, jealousies, old
grudges, traditional hatreds, dynastic and
territorial guides, but to contrive how
we may open the highway of prosperity to
all mankind.”
*    *    *
“The difficulties in the way of general
pacification are great, but as has been well
said, ‘more difficulties are in the way of

[Column 3]
its failure.’ The forces at work for peace
are many and mighty. The clearest
voices heard just now throughout the
civilized world are protests against war.”
	The speaker referred to enumerated the
measures to be considered:
	1. Treaties of arbitration or the set-
tlement of disputes by that method even
in the absence of treaties. Such settlements
already count by scores.
	2. Treaties of reciprocity in trade. The
rivalries of honorable commerce are all in
the interest of good neighborhood; and the
time will come—I believe it will come
soon—when the barriers to international
intercourse will be counted as relics of bar-
barism.
	3. Neutralization of the open seas. I
heard George Hale tell how for eighty
years an argument written on one sheet of
paper had kept both England and the
United States from anchoring vessels of
war on our great inland lakes, and had
made it needless to plant fortifications on
their shores. Why may not this policy be
induced to the breadth of the Atlantic
and Pacific seas which are fast becoming
like inland lakes?
	4. Provisions for international coinage,
or more probably for a monetary unit, to
the immeasurable convenience of a thou-
sand millions, and acceptable to everybody
but the money changers, are among the
possible concessions which local narrow-
ness, pettiness and precedent may yet
make to the growing spirit of goodwill and
good understanding.
	5. But crowning and completing the
edifice of justice and peace must come that
Permanent Tribunal for the settlement of
international difficulties of which we are
hearing so much and are yet to hear more.”
	There are forces at work that are help-
ing to move the world of mankind towards
peace and universal brotherhood. Light
has come into the world and it will in-
crease. Some day the civilized nations
will call a greater Conference in its interest
than has ever been yet, and the customs of
war and the implements of destruction will
be abolished.
	The Latter-day Saints above all people
should be on the side of peace. They do
not believe in the shedding of blood and
our Church difficulties are settled by arbi-
tration. The High Council in every Stake
of Zion exists for this purpose, and to avoid
lawsuits has always been the policy of our
people. Therefore as a people we stand
for peace, yet when our country calls for
men to go out and defend it our men are
ready to serve and as patriotic and heroic
as any citizens of the United States.
	If the introduction of peace flags, peace
symbols and peace literature can effect a
change and convert the youth of the age to
a higher ideal of life and its pursuits than
the paraphernalia and characteristics of
war then positive results may be expected
from the organizations of women; and the
public demonstrations now inaugurated if
kept up annually will keep the thought of
peace in the minds of the people.
	Even the pecuniary losses through wars
to the nations is insignificent compared
with the Death Roll and the license given
to all man’s fiercer passions, and the de-
moralization and degeneracy of peoples, and
incurable diseases fastened upon men and
women.
	The Psalmist David said in days of old,
“I will hear what the Lord will speak, for


He will speak peace unto His people.”
Let those who live in perilous times speak
peace, sing the songs of peace, pray earnest-
ly for peace, Those who profess to be the
followers of the Savior, the Prince of
Peace, should be men and women of peace,
not in words only but in deeds. Speed the
time when there shall be no more slaying
of men nor of any living thing.


