SILK CULTURE.
	Silk is a valuable article, either in its
culture or manufacture; that it does not
stand out as one of the leading industries
of our State today is a silent reproach to
the intelligence, the industry, the patience
of its people, as for many hundred years
the silk worm has been inextricably asso-
ciated among the industrial types of highly
refined people attaining the upper strata of
culture and civilization; the adornment,
the luxury and the fountains of wealth to
nations who have lifted themselves above
the pursuit of those coarser industrial avo-
cations of mankind. It is the jewel of the
great agricultural diadem with which
society has crowned itself, as a splendid
testimony of its highest achievements in
its conflict with the coarse habits and tastes
which have retarded communities in their
aim at refinement.
	In the early days of our country Silk
Culture was the amusement of our grand-
mothers. Before the Revolution the
smoothly woven and splendidly colored
gowns made by those venerable women
were the pride of the household, and the
envy of their homespun-clad rivals; and
consignments of raw silk sent to our
mother country at one time inspired the
hope that the means hdd been found to
thwart her hereditary enemy, France. Yet
all these efforts sank into oblivion, and
our country yielded the main-spring which
has proven to be a powerful agent in the
spread of commerce.
	We can almost say that Nature has
planted the mulberry in the valleys among
our high mountains, and has accompanied
it with a climate so thoroughly adapted to
the silk worm; that the intelligence and
skill of our women should apply it to their
improvement, and no time will ever be
better than the present to avail ourselves
of the opportunity to establish our own silk
industry, and the hope that perhaps in the
future we might throw off a dependence
which annually costs our country more
than eighty millions of dollars, challenges
us to a trial of the silk industry.
	As a result of the work which has been
done since the appointment of our Com-
mission we are able to give the follow-
ing table which we hope will prove an im-
petus to many in the State to set out trees
and utilize the leaves of those already
grown, so they may gain an understanding
of the work, and that the production of the
coming year may greatly exceed that of
the past. Two hundred mulberry trees
will grow very well on two acres of land.
A good medium sized tree will yield 150
pounds of leaves, which will give 30,000
pounds on two acres. As it takes seven-
teen pounds of leaves to make one pound of
fresh cocoons, 30,000 pounds will give
1,765 pounds of fresh cocoons. The 1,765
pounds of fresh cocoons will make 600
pounds of dried cocoons, which, if of good
quality, are worth $600 at once; if they can
be reeled by the same people the silk will
be worth $1200.
	The expenses of cultivating two acres in
trees, feeding the worms, etc., may be
stated as follows:


One grown person, first ten days at $1.50
per day, $15.00; two boys or girls, first
ten days, 25cts per day, $5.00; two grown
persons, second ten days, $1.50 per day,
$30.00; five boys or girls, second ten days,
25cts. per day, $12.50; three grown per-
sons, third ten days, $1.50 per day.
$45 00; sixteen boys or girls, third ten
days, 25cts. per day, $40.00; total $147.00.
	We also give the following extracts from
a letter written by a lady who has had
considerable experience in raising silk in
Springville. While the values are very
low, it will give some idea of the loss we
are annually sustaining:
	“Presuming upon the number of forty
thousand families in Utah, and that each
family raises only twenty pounds of
cocoons, the bounty alone on this would
be $5.00 to each family, which means
$200,000 to the State alone; but let us
carry these figures further: Twenty pounds
of cocoons would produce four pounds of
reeled silk, which at $4 00 a pound is $21.00
to each family and $840,000 to the State. But
if each family should produce forty pounds,
which can be done in every house that has
a boy ten years old to gather the leaves,
this would give the sum of $1,680,000
yearly. I trust this statement will appeal
so strongly to all that they will not allow
this golden opportunity to pass unheeded
and thus prevent employment to hundreds
of our sons and daughters. We have
quality, what we want is quantity to en-
courage capital to establish mills.”
	Since the Commission began their work
many thousand trees have been added to
those planted years ago, and while we feel
greatly encouraged with the work which
has been accomplished we are very anxious
to extend the work as fast as possible,
and every woman who raises a few pounds
of cocoons in her house will some day see
that she has done much towards this great
enterprise which will eventually prove one
of the foundation stones upon which the
prosperity of our State shall stand.
