[Column 1]
MISS HUNT’S VISIT.
	Miss Sarah E. Hunt, of Salem, Mass.,
on her trip westward paid a flying visit to
the Daughters of the Revolution in this
city. Arriving here early Monday morn-
ing, April 28, she was met at the depot by
Mrs. Julia F. Lund and Miss Mabelle
Snow and escorted to Mrs. P. T. Farns-
worth’s residence where breakfast was
waiting. Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith,
Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Clarissa Smith
Williams were Mrs. Farnsworth’s guests to
meet Miss Hunt at breakfast.
	Afterwards an informal meeting was
held in the parlors that were decorated
with the colonial colors, etc. The regent,
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, in the chair.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. B. W. Smith
and the speaker was introduced by the
regent, who mentioned that Miss Hunt
had just arrived from Denver where she
had attended the biennial of the D. R.
and had been elected First Vice-President
General of the D. R. General Society, con-
sequently this was her first meeting in her
new official capacity.
	Miss Hunt gave a sort of resume of the
recent biennial at Denver, the various ex-
cursions planned, the pleasure of the dele-
gates and a general idea of what had been
accomplished, explained her idea of the
legitimate work of the D. R., and spoke
of the sisterly feeling which should exist
among the women thus banded together.
Felt we must do vital patriotic work in the
line of good citizenship, educating the
masses for future usefulness, and meantime
in every possible way depleting the crimin-
al classes among the young.
	The speaker was enthusiastic on the
subject of Junior classes and Mr. George’s
Republic at Freeville, N. Y., said it had
worked admirably and attracted great
attention from educators and men and
women engaged in reformatary work. The
plan is to assist in taking poor boys from
the streets and giving them opportunities
to help themselves in industrial pursuits,
and the motto is, “Nothing Without
Labor,” and to make labor honorable.
They make their own laws, the girls vote
as well as the boys, and they have a court
where those who do wrong are tried,
smoking is one of the things for which
they are tried. Some very incorrigible
boys have been redeemed through the
methods enforced there and the results as a
whole have been gratifying. In the
Republic boys who had never heard the
word duty are taught practical lessons of
their duty to others. The affair is entirely
unsectarian and is practically self-support-
ing, those living there pay in work for
everything they have a nominal price. It
is something on the plan of Hull House,
although it is not for adults only juniors.
Almost all kinds of trades are taught, also
gardening; there is a printing press and a
newspaper is published by the boys on the
grounds.
	At the close of Miss Hunt’s “talk”

[Column 2]
“America,” was sung by the ladies, Miss
Alice Farnsworth playing the accompani-
ment, and benediction was pronounced.
Introductions and good byes and a hurried
leave taking and expressions of good
fellowship and an urgent invitation to the
honored guest to visit us again.
	There were about thirty ladies present.
Mrs. Wells and Mrs. Lund accompanied
Miss Hunt to the station to take the train
for Los Angeles, she will return to Boston
by the Canadian route. She expects to
stop at Spokane and other cities and do
some organizing of the Daughtors of the
Revolution before returning home.


