			JULIA S MCKEE.

	The grim reaper, Death, visited our Relief
Society, November 12 of the present year and
took from us our faithful and beloved first vice-
president, Julia Sophia Raymond McKee.
	She was ill several months with dropsy, but the
strong will which enabled her to conquer many
difficulties kept her in the faithful performance of
her duties until five weeks before her death. Only
one week would she consent to have any assistance
excepting from her granddaughter, Miss Pearl
Riley, who lived with her. Then all that loving
care could do was done to comfort her in her last
hours, She was cheerful to the last, her greatest
desire was not to be a burden.
	Sister McKee was born February 9, 1831, at
Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y She had an
early religious training and records in her diary
that in her seventh year, while returning
from Sabbath School, she saw a stranger preach-
ing to a crowd of people.
	As she drew near to the crowd he prophesied
that a disease would come among them that
would cause the death of many of their children;
and that shortly after this a strange doctrine
would be introduced to them. No one knew from
whence he came or where he went.
	When Julia was in her tenth year she saw the
prediction fulfilled, the scarlet fever being the
disease spoken of and the strange doctrine which
followed was the Gospel as taught by the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Her parents
embraced the same and she was baptized of
her own accord when thirteen years of age by
Elder Theodore Curtis.
	She moved with her parents to Nauvoo in 1845
and passed through the persecutions at that time
without a word of complaint. She was married
to Hugh McKee at Winter Quarters November
2, 1849. He went away to work and during the
year of his abs[-]nce Julia’s mother died and her
father gave her the baby, Annie, which she raised
as her own child.
	They arrived in Salt Lake City September 15,
1852, and cheerfully met and overcame the trials
incident to that early day. Concerning the fam-
ine she says, “During the summer of 1856 I had
very little bread, but the Lord caused weeds to
grow in abundance where they had not grown be-
fore. We had more milk than we had other
years and we lived on weeds and milk. I know
the Lord blessed us in these valleys of the
mountains. During all the time that we were
without bread my children never asked for it, but
ate such as we had and were satisfied.
	Sister McKee was the mother of six children,
one of whom died in infancy. She had forty-six
grandchildren, thirty-six of whom are living, and
eighteen great grandchildren, seventeen living.
	She has lived at South Cottonwood, Palmyra,
Spanish Fork, Santaquin, Goshen and Hunting-
ton. She has assisted the poor and sick and
cared for the dead since she was fourteen years
old. She also labored for a long time as a
teacher in the Sunday School and Relief Society,
and also assisted in religion class work.
	For more than twelve years she has had charge
of the sacrament dishes and furnished bread for
the same, not once failing to have it ready at the
proper time.
	She assisted her husband in caring for and dis-
bursing the fast offerings under the direction of
the Bishop, until her husband’s death three years
ago. Since then she has had that responsibility
herself.
	For eleven years she was secretary in the
Huntington Relief Society and was chosen last
February as first vice-president in the same, filling
these offices with the same zeal and integrity that
has characterized her whole life. She was a good
neighbor and despised gossip and scandal.
	We mourn her absence but rejoice in her rest,
for we know she will receive the reward of the
faithful. 
				MARY  E. WESTOVER,
				MARY S. FOWLER,
							Committee,


