ty in an appeal to the people of this State
to lend their aid to this cause, that this
question of arbitration and peace, and the
sentiment of the Universal Brothetbood of
man may be borne to every soul in our
midst.
	The subject of peace and arbitration
deals with such state and financial questions
as material losses and cost of war, and dis-
cussions should follow along these lines.
	Moral deterioration is also incident to
war and this phase should also be brought
to the public mind. Any cause which would
tend to weaken the race physically must
involve the spiritual well being of a nation.
Thus each phase of war presents a religious
aspect and a realization of this impels us to
particularly request the entire band of
ministers and clergymen and Sabbath
School officers to unite with us in this
work, not only by attending and taking
part in the programs given at the demon-
strations on May 15, but to also discuss
subjects bearing on this question in all
Church gatherings on May 11, the Sabbath
day preceding the demonstration. We
earnestly appeal to all teachers, principals,
superintendents of public and private
schools to devote “morning talks” and
chapel exercises on the morning of May 15,
to subjects in relation to Universal Peace.
Presidents of Primary Associations might

[Column 3]
also give suitable talks at the regular
meeting preceding May 15.
	We appeal to the club women to assist
us by taking active part in the demonstra-
tion effort, to stimulate the desire for peace
and to concentrate public attention upon
those ideals of loving brotherhood.
	Speed the day when “Nation shall not
lift up sword against nation, neither shall
they learn war any more,” but “they shall
beat their swords into plough shares and
their spears into pruning hooks.” Then
shall we approach more nearly to the real-
ization of the “Peace of God which passeth
all understanding.”
	Signatures—Bathsheba W. Smith, El-
mina S. Taylor, Ann M. Cannon, Julia
P. M. Farnsworth, Clarissa S. Williams,
Maria Y. Dougall, Lizbeth Qualtrough,
Emma J. McVicker. Lucretia H. Kimball
Bertha G. Bamberger, Isabel M. W. Sears,
Josephine Spencer, Mary A. H. Cannon,
Virginia Snow Stephen, Elizabeth Cart-
wright, Katie B. Y. Kraft, May Wells
Whitney, Mary F. Young, Dessie W.
Grant, Clara Holbrook, Inez Knight,
Lillian Horne, Alice Richards, Rebecca E.
Little, Janie M. Kingsbury, Edna M.
Ridges, Lucile Jennings, Alice Isley.
	Annie Taylor Hyde, member of the
International Peace Committee. Alice Mer-
rill Horne and Christine Smoot Taylor
members cf the National Council Peace
Committee and Chairmen of the State Peace
Demonstration of Utah.

