A FAITHFUL SISTER GONE.
	We are called upon to chronicle the death of
our dearly beloved sister and mother, Sister
Tryphena Fairchilds, who departed this life
November 24, 1901, at the home of her daughter,
Tryphena Bryson, at Woodruff, Utah, after being
confined to her bed for five years from the effects
of a stroke that prevented her from raising her
body, but she suffered very little until the last two
weeks. All that loving hands could do was done
for her until she passed away, her daughter never
tiring in trying to make her life comfortable
through all the years she could not help herself.
	Aunt Phena, as she was called by her friends,
was in her eighty-seventh year, but her mind was
bright and clear and her countenance as noble as
only a daughter of Zion’s can be, she was affected
in body only.
	The funeral took place November 26, the High
Council of the Woodruff Stake being the pall
bearers. The speakers were Elders William H.
Lee, S. C. Putman, A. C. Call, President J. M.
Baxter, Bishop Peter McKinnon and William
Longherst. All said she had fought the good
fight and kept the faith, that her life had been an
exemplary one. During the years she was con-
fined to her bed she never complained, but always
said she was ready to go when her heavenly
Father saw fit to call her home. She was laid to
rest on the hillside with some of her dear friends
who had gone before.
			BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Tryphena Pomeroy Fairchilds was born June
28, 1815, at Homer, Courtland Co., N. Y. She
lived with her parents. Charles and Polly Pomer-
oy until she was eighteen years of age. She then
married William Lewis, by whom she had two
children. He only lived four years after they
were married and a few months after the father’s
death the little boy died. Now she was left alone
with her baby girl, she had no home and had to
work for her living. Her father was a farmer
and had taught her to spin flax and wool and she
also learned to braid palm leaf hats. She lived a
widow for seven years, then she married John
Fairchilds, a widower with a family nearly all
grown, by whom she had two more children, a
girl and a boy. She lived with this husband about
eight years, then they separated. the father taking
the boy.
	She then went to visit her sister, Lucy Wood,
in Michigan. where she heard two Mormon mis-
sionaries preach. She investigated the doctrine
and embraced it, being baptized January 28,
1858 by Elder Oscar Stodard. Her eldest
daughter being married there was only herself
and daughter Tryphena, but her father and
mother, sisters and brother lived near, yet only
herself and daughter and sister Lucy and family
joined the Church. They with a few friends
wanted to gather with the Saints in Utah, so by
working and saving for many months, she with
the rest started April 18th, 1859, in the company
of James S. Brown, traveling in ox teams driving
one herself most of the way. They arrived in
Salt Lake City, August 29, 1859.
	She worked from one place to another for sever-
al years, making clothes, spinning and weaving,
she spun the cotton and made the warp and made
linsey. She lived in Salt Lake City until 1867,
when her daughter was married to Samuel Bryson.
They lived in Bountiful until 1871, and then
moved to Woodruff, Utah. She taught school
there for a few years. She was second counselor
in the Relief Society for years until circumstances
would not permit. She was always a friend to
the poor and sick. When dreaded diseases were
raging and others were afraid she would go and
take care of them, never thinking of herself.
After her strength was exhausted in that way and
she was not able to stand hard work, she made
quilts and Temple clothes for the sisters. She was
handy with her needle, making very pretty em-
broidery and patchwork. She passed through a
great many trials but never complained, and died
as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.
