[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: 575 The Southern Far East Mission Preston R. Nibley]
THE  SOUTHERN  FAR  EAST  MISSION 
581 
Ewing  Galloway 
WINNOWING  RICE,  LUZON,  PHILIPPINE  ISLANDS 
August  17,  1955,  under  the  direction  of  President  Smith,  the  action  of 
creating  the  Southern  Far  East  Mission  was  again  ratified. 
A  temporary  headquarters  for  the  mission  was  estabhshed  at  149 
Argyle  Street,  Kowloon,  Hong  Kong.  The  first  missionaries  assigned  to 
labor  in  the  Southern  Far  East  Mission  were  Elders  Garnet  E.  Birch,  Rob- 
ert M.  Jackson,  Alexander  K.  Madsen,  Gary  L.  Bradshaw,  Kenneth  Kui 
Sing  Fong,  Ronald  Ollis,  Duane  W.  Degn,  and  Jerry  D.  Wheat. 
In  June  1956,  four  missionaries  were  assigned  to  Formosa;  the  first  to 
be  assigned  to  that  country. 
The  first  baptisms  in  the  Southern  Far  East  Mission  were  performed 
on  April  26,  1956,  when  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Leslie  Dickman,  natives  of  England, 
were  baptized  at  Hong  Kong  by  Elder  Leslie  W.  Degn.  Five  days  later 
eleven  Chinese  converts  were  baptized  in  the  mission  home  in  Kowloon. 
At  the  end  of  May  1957,  it  was  reported  that  there  were  284  members 
of  the  Church  in  the  Southern  Far  East  Mission,  located  in  four  branches. 
Luana  C.  Heaton  presides  over  the  Southern  Far  East  Mission  Relief 
Society. 
Note:  The  co^'e^  for  this  Magazine,  "Pagoda  in  Kowloon,  Hong  Kong,"  was  snb- 
mitted  by  Luana  C.  Heaton,  President,  Southern  Far  East  Mission  Rchef  Society.  See 
also  "Recipes  From  the  Southern  Far  East  Mission,"  page  602.

A  Temple  Rises  in  New  Zealand 
Wealtha  S.  Mencknhdl 
Member,  General  Board  of  Relief  Society 
4  4  T  F  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  Church  has  grown  since  that  time 
I  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giv-  in  New  Zealand  until  we  now  have 
eth  to  all  men  liberally,  and  14,630  members, 
upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given  It  was  easy  for  this  people  to 
him."  How  grateful  we  are  this  accept  much  of  the  doctrine  of  the 
day  that  our  great  Prophet  Joseph  Church,  especially  was  it  easy  to 
Smith,  when  just  a  boy,  was  im-  accept  The  Book  of  Mormon, 
pressed  by  the  above  message;  that  Brother  Matthew  Cowley,  in  his 
it  entered  with  great  force  into  his  book  Matthew  Cowley  Speaks, 
heart,  and  he  did  seek  in  faith,  states  that  he  had  never  met  a  Poly-