[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
Southern Far East. The Southern Far East Mission was to include Formosa, the British colony of Hong Kong, the Philippines, and the island of Guam. Herald Grant Heaton of Salt Lake City was appointed to preside over this mission. The division of the Japanese Mission was ratified at a missionary conference held in Karuizawa, Japan, on July 27, 1955, under the direction of President Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve. President Smith, accompanied by his wife, Mrs. Jessie Evans Smith, had made the journey to Japan for the purpose of supervising the division of the mission and installing President Heaton as president of the Southern Far East Mission. At a meeting of the saints and missionaries held in Hong Kong on cartes 4 HT bw am meee 7 BRE SHE 9889 29 onerse Wy; ie UMM OES LIE Photograph sarmmngniths by Luana C. Heaton CHINESE JUNK WITH PART OF HONG KONG ISLAND IN THE BACKGROUND Page 580 THE SOUTHERN FAR EAST MISSION 581 Ewing Galloway WINNOWING RICE, LUZON, PHILIPPINE ISLANDS August 17, 1955, under the direction of President Smith, the action of creating the Southern Far East Mission was again ratified. A temporary headquarters for the mission was established at 149 Argyle Street, Kowloon, Hong Kong. The first missionarics assigned to labor in the Southern Far East Mission were Elders Garnet E. Birch, Robert M. Jackson, Alexander K. Madsen, Gary L. Bradshaw, Kenneth Kui Sing Fong, Ronald Ollis, Duane W. Degn, and Jerry D. Wheat. In June 1956, four missionaries were assigned to Formosa; the first to be assigned to that country. The first baptisms in the Southern Far East Mission were performed on April 26, 1956, when Mr. And Mrs. Leslie Dickman, natives of England, were baptized at Hong Kong by Elder Leslie W. Degn. Five days later eleven Chinese converts were baptized in the mission home in Kowloon. At the end of May 1957, it was reported that there were 284 members of the Church in the Southern Far East Mission, located in four branches. Luana C. Heaton presides over the Southern Far East Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "Pagoda in Kowloon, Hong Kong," was submitted by Luana C. Heaton, President, Southern Far East Mission Relief Socicty. See also "Recipes From the Southern Far East Mission," page 602. A Temple Rises in New Zealand Wealtha S. Mendenhall Member, General Board of Relief Society 6¢ HF any of you lack wisdom, I let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." How grateful we are this day that our great Prophet Joseph Smith, when just a boy, was impressed by the above message; that it entered with great force into his heart, and he did seek in faith, nothing wavering, for needed wisdom from God many times. We are grateful that on the morning of a very beautiful, clear day in the early spring of 1820, Joseph knelt in prayer, and that he was visited by the Father and his Son Jesus Christ. At that time the Father introduced the Savior of mankind by saying, "This is My Beloved Son, Hear Him!" We are grateful that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints was organized in its fulness under the guidance and inspiration of the Savior through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that it is for all people wherever they are. Missionaries were sent out into the world, and the truths of our gospel have been proclaimed to hundreds of thousands of our Father's chuldren. The beautiful land of New Zealand was first visited by the Latterday Saint missionaries in 1854, but it was not until 1881 that the missiomaries, ffem the "Tisimi> ssi, traveling in pairs, prepared to live in the homes of the people, and to learn the Maori language and teach the Maori the gospel in their own tonguc. 'The membership of the Page 582 Church has grown since that time in New Zealand until we now have 14,630 members. It was easy for this people to accept much of the doctrine of the Church, especially was it easy to accept 'The Book of Mormon. Brother Matthew Cowley, in his book Matthew Cowley Speaks, states that he had never met a Polynesian who had read The Book of Mormon who did not say: "That book came from God. That is our record." It was easy for them to believe in the words of the Lord, "Tf any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God." 'They do this constantly. It was easy for them to accept the genealogical program of the Church, because their dearest interests in life are entwined about their posterity; their children are their prize possessions; they love them dearly. They recite their genealogy from memory for many generations. 'They continually speak of the fact that they are born of goodly parents. Yes, they are eager to go to the house of the Lord and there be sealed as husband and wife and have their children sealed to them for time and all eternity. 'They are eager and willing to go into a temple of God and be baptized by proxy for their ancestors and do their work, that they, too, may be sealed for all eternity.