[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Fiction | Title: For | Author: Atkinson]
[For This I Have Yearned Mabel Law Atkinson]

Did I have to hurry," she laughed as they fell in step and hurried down Maple Street. Kallie drew a long breath. She had to put her heart into this campaign. The Bay View Club expected her to make an outstanding record in this district. "If I do say so, Kallie," Marge was saying, "I'm proud to be your first lieutenant. You were really tops last year." "Here's our first prospect," Kallie said, "1080 Maple Street. Let's see what the book says." She looked at her notes. "Mr. And Mrs. Richard Stark. He's a bank clerk. 'They gave ten dollars last year—they live on the east side of this duplex." Marge rang the bell but there was no answer. 'lhe house seemed dead inside. 'They were walking back down the porch steps when they noticed a note stuck in the mailbox. "Guess this is for anybody," Kallie said, reaching for it. "Dear Postman," she read, "we don't live here anymore. Mr. Stark's address is the Bekins Hotel and mine is Carol Ridgeway Stark, Denver, Colorado." Kallie's throat tightened. The Starks had broken up. But why? What had they quarreled about? Could it have been over money? She wondered with a sick feeling. "Sounds like trouble," Marge said. "Makes me feel—sort of sad." "Me, too," Kallie agreed. "And besides—that's ten dollars we won't collect." Marge sighed. "You get to know so many people doing this, all kinds, and their troubles — but you can't let it bother you," THE HEAVENLY BONUS "No—not too much. But it's hard not to." They stopped in front of the next house. "Mrs. Heaslip lives here," Kallie told Marge. "She's seventy-five — lost her husband a few years ago— she lives on a pension. She's such a sweet little thing I love to call on her. She'll have a cookie or something ready for us. And she gave five dollars last year." "Does she live here all alone?" Marge wanted to know as they walked down the narrow path between the rosebushes leading to a small house. A lilac bush was a splash of purple at the side of the porch, and a little hose, spouting water, twitled gaily on the apronsized lawn. "All alone," Kallie answered. The front door was open, and as they stepped onto the porch, a flutey little voice called: "Who is it, please?" "Hello, Mrs. Heaslip," Kallie called back. "It's Mrs. Edwards of the Heart Drive —it's our annual call, remember?" "Bless you, I do remember, Mrs. Edwards. Come right in." RS. Heaslip came to the door, and Kallie thought how dainty she looked this morning. Her white hair was neatly curled and a little lace collar matched her apron. "This is Mrs. Johnson," Kallie said. "My! You do look pretty, both of you." Mrs. Heaslip motioned for them to sit down. "Now, do stay long enough for a glass of milk. I always have one about this time every morning." 593 "We'd love to, Mrs. Heaslip," Kallie said. "I told Marge about your cookies, that special kind with brown sugar." Mrs. Heaslip beamed. "Well, that's nice. Now first we'll take care of our business." She walked to the bookcase, lifted an old volume of poetry, opened it and took out a five-dollar bill. "I had it put away for you," she said, handing it to Kallie. Her eyes had mischievous little sparks in them. "You both make yourselves at home while I get the cookies." Marge leaned back in the old rocker, picked up a magazine, and began to read. But Kallie couldn't relax. She sat very straight on the edge of her chair, folded the bill thoughtfully, and put it in her purse. 'Then she wrote a receipt for the five dollars, asked Marge to excuse her, and hurried out to the kitchen with it. She wanted to talk to Mrs. Heaslip about so many things because she was so wise and understanding. She hestitated in the doorway, watching Mrs. Heaslip take the golden brown cookies from an old china jar and put them on a small silver tray. "Mrs. Heaslip," she began. "I was just wondering—what happened to the Starks, next door?" Mrs. Heaslip edged another cookie on the tray and dusted her hands on her apron. "Well, now, honey," she said very gently. "I really don't know. Maybe they didn't take the time to get along together." Kallie swallowed hard. "Was it—over money?" she asked, trying to keep her voice steady. 594 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 Mrs. Heaslip puckered her lips and shook her head. "I really don't know. " She looked at Kallie with eves as clear and blue as the morning skv. Kallie bit her lip. "I just wondered," she said. "I thought—mavbe—other people had troubles—like mine. Mrs. Hoag S eves narrowed as She motioned her toward a chair near the table. "Sit down, pet," she said, and her voice caressed her like a soft wind. "You've got a worry. You look real sad this morning, Mrs. Edwards. Would you like to tell me about ue?" "Yes—ves—I would, Mrs. Heaslip. Really—it seems so silly when you say it out loud—but it's so serious to me. It's about my husband — and some money." Kallie knew she could trust Mrs. Heaslip, and almost breathlessly she was unloading her heart; she told her about the bonus and Cliff wanting to spend it all for a fishing trip, and how she had asked him to give her the money, instead, because she knew Cliff would spend it all. Mrs. Heaslip listened without interrupting. Her hands were busy pouring tall glasses of fresh milk. But there was a faraway look in her eyes and a perky little smile made her mouth young again around the edges. "Tll be nght back," she said and disappeared into her bedroom. She returned in a second with a rare old figurine in her hands. "My Charlie bought me this," she said significantly, her eyes holding Kallie's steadily. "I didn't think he could afford it at the time. He bought it fifty years ago when we were on one of our holidays." Kallie couldn't answer. She sat there quietly looking at the figurine as Nits. Heaslip put it on the table between them. She dusted it carefully with a napkin. "Tl tell you about Charlie," she said, "because it might help you to make allowances for your own husband. That's one way to learn things—from each other." She stopped talking and Kallie touched her hand, eagerly. "Do tell me,' ' she coaxed. "We lived in Park City," Mrs. Heaslip went on. "Charlie was a miner. Worked long hours down there in a dark mine. But you never saw a man love light and beauty more than Charlie did. And fun! He could work right along with the steadiest of them for a spell, then he just had to have a holiday in the sun. A smile gentled her mouth and she sat thoughtfully a moment. "Funny thing how Charlie always got a little extra money for his holiday. He always said the Lord gave it to him, and it did look that way. He used to call it his heavenly bonus. We'd be scrimping and saving to live within our income and then out of nowhere some extra money would come to Charlie!" Mrs. Heaslip's smile was very WISE. "It never occurred to him to put some of it away, but I always held out for tithing and fast offering and twenty per cent in the bank. But I agreed on the holiday. Most men who work as hard as Charlie have to have a vacation every so often. THE HEAVENLY BONUS He liked to ride and hike in the sun. It seemed to give him a fresh start." Kallie's throat pinched in as she thought how Cliff loved the sun, too. "Charlie had his faults,' Mrs. Heaslip went on dreamily. "He spent money too freely, and his temper got edgy after he'd worked too hard, but he always took me on the vacations with him." She touched the figurine, turning it so the morning sun shone on it. Her fingers caressed it. "Marriage is a give and take," she said softly. "But it's worth it. My husband was a fine man. We couldn't save a lot of money, just our insurance and the twenty per cent I set by, but our vacations kept us well and strong. "When we're old,' Charlie used to say, 'we'll look back and remember them.' And we did just that." Mrs. Heaslip quit talking and Kallie touched her hand gratefully. They sat there quietly without speaking for a moment. The oldfashioned clock in the hallway chimed eleven o'clock. Cliff would be working hard now on a new case, 595 she thought with a sigh. He had worked steadily ever since they had been married without a change of any kind. He had spent long hours at night searching through stuffy old law books. 'The senior members had given him most of the tedious work because he was the new member. He did need a vacation, she conceded achingly. Heavenly Father must have known that he needed one when he gave him the hundred dollar bill. And she would be contented if they saved twenty per cent. "Mrs. Heaslip," she said, getting to her feet, "may I use your phone? I want to call Cliff." "Of course, dear," she answered. "It's in the hall." Kallie turned at the doorway, smiling over her shoulder at Mrs. Heaslip. "I want you to meet my husband when we come back from our fishing trip,' she said. "He's a very wonderful man." Mrs. Heaslip smiled and her blue eyes were twinkling. "Husbands are very wonderful people," she murmured. "Don't you ever forget that, young lady!"