[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 13 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 


 Fler Choice ARY sat puzzled and uncertain after the two older children had left for the first day of school. She had not mentioned her dilemma to Jim the night before, but had decided to reserve time this morning to think her problem through so she would make the right choice. She had been flattered when Mrs. Juke had called her the day before. Motioning to the children to be quieter so she could hear, Mary had been thilled to be asked to join a group of women who met twice a month as a study group. They were recognized as leaders in the community, and there was flashing in Mary's mind, all the time she was talking, plans as to how she might manage to join this desirable club. Much as Mary wanted to become a member, by the time Mrs. Juke finished her invitation and _ outlined the plan of the club for the coming season, Mary had not been able to see her way clear, so she had asked if she might think it over for a day. Mrs. Juke still sounded cordial and assured her she could let her know in a day or two. Now Mary sat trying to make her plans for the fall and winter which would allow her time to join the club which met on Wednesday afternoon. Over and over Mary considered her schedule and finally admitted to herself that she couldn't attend Relief Society every 'Tuesday and the club on Wednesday twice Page 598 a month. She would have to choose between them. * * * A similar situation confronts many Latter-day Saint women; but when a choice is to be made,. There are always guideposts to point the way. 'These consist of the influence one's choice will have on loved ones, and the words of the prophets. In 1942, on the hundredth anniversary of Relief Society, the First Presidency wrote a greeting to Relief Society in which they stated: We ask our Sisters of the Relief Society never to forget that they are a unique organization in the whole world, for they were organized under the inspiration of the Lord bestowed upon that great Prophet who was divinely called, by a visitation of the Father and Son in person, to open up this Last Dispensation, the dispensation of the Fullness of Times. No other woman's organization in all the earth has had such a birth. This divinely inspired origin brings with it a corresponding responsibility, in consecration to service, and in the loftiest loyalty to the Priesthood of God and to one another. 'The members should permit neither hostile nor competitive interests of any kind to detract from the duties and obligations, the privileges and honors, the opportunities and achievements of membership in this great Society. The prime, almost the exclusive allegiance of every member of this great group, runs in this field to their fellow members and to the organization. Members should permit no other affiliation either to interrupt or to interfere with the work of this Society. They should give to Relief Society service precedence over all social and other clubs and societies of similar kinds. EDITORIAL We urge this because in the work of the Relief Society are intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values found in no other organization and sufficient for all general needs of its members (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 7). Relief Society extends a warm invitation and welcome to every Latter-day Saint woman, whether she, of necessity, works and may not attend regularly, or whether she can join in all the activities of the society. Eternal blessings, earthly joys 599 and satisfaction await each member, as she brings comfort and understanding to others. % OK OK OK OK Mary remained very still for a time as she weighed the advantages and disadvantages of her situation. Suddenly her mind resolved the question and, with a glad countenance, she dialed Mrs. Juke's number. I —M. C. S.