[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Lesson | Title: 625 Work Meeting: Living Economically William F. Edwards]
working  in  the  various  organizations 
of  the  Church.  If  asked  to  work  in 
this  capacity,  we  should  consider  the 
call  an  opportunity,  accept  willing- 
ly, perform  our  duties  conscientious- 
ly. Another  form  of  service  is 
missionary  activity.  This  calling,  too, 
is  a  challenge  and  opportunity  and 
one  in  which,  if  we  are  chosen,  we 
should  embark  in  all  diligence. 
The  true  essence  of  service  to 
God,  in  these  and  in  all  activities, 
consists  of  service  to  our  fellow  men. 
King  Benjamin,  as  related  in  The 
Book  of  Mormon,  said,  ''.  .  .  when 
ye  are  in  the  service  of  your  fellow 
beings  ye  are  only  in  the  service  of 
your  God"  (Mosiah  2:17). 
At  this  time  of  the  year  our 
thoughts  naturally  turn  to  that  great 
area  of  service  connected  with  the 
life  of  our  Savior.  Most  of  us  are 
familiar  with  the  story  of  'The 
Other  Wise  Man,"  by  Henry  Van 
Dyke.  This  is  the  story  of  the 
Persian  nobleman,  Artaban,  who, 
having  learned  of  the  birth  of  the 
Messiah,  sells  all  his  worldly  pos- 
sessions and  buys  three  precious 
jewels.  These  he  plans  to  take  as 
gifts  to  the  Messiah  as  tokens  of  his 
love  and  affection.  Stopping  to 
help  someone  in  need,  Artaban  ar- 
rives late  in  Bethlehem  and  learns 
that  Joseph  and  Mary,  with  the 
baby  Jesus,  have  fled  to  safety.  Arta- 
ban spends  his  life  in  search  of  the 
Messiah.  In  the  process  he  min- 
isters to  the  distress  and  suffering  of 
his  fellow  men.  Three  times  he 
comes  near  to  seeing  the  Savior;  but 
each  time  he  finds  someone  in  need 
of  his  urgent  help.  One  by  one, 
Artaban  gives  away  his  precious 
jewels  in  order  to  help  others.  He 
never  is  blessed  with  the  opportunity 
Page  625

626  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1957 
of  seeing  Jesus  and  feels  that  he  has  by  Artaban.  Yet,  e\'eryday  we  en- 
failed  in  his  mission.  Yet,  as  he  is  counter  many  opportunities  to  serve, 
dying,  he  hears  a  voice  saying:  To   forget   oneself    in   an   effort   to 
lighten   another's   burdens,   to  per- 
For  I  was  an  hungred,  and  ye  gave  me  f^j.^^-^   ^   thoughtful   act   or  to   show 
meat:    I    was    thirsty,    and    ye    gave    me  .     t  i  •     i             •     . 
drink:   I  was  a  stranger,  and  ye  took  me  a"  unexpected  kmdness    iS  to  serve 
in  ...  .  the  Lord  by  servmg  others.     This 
type  of  human  service  does  not  re- 
.  .  .  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  Inasmuch  q^ij-e  a^y  special  calling  but  can  go 
as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  ^^^  ^^  ^.      ^^^^^  ^^^  ^^^  ^j^^  promise 
of   these   my    brethren,   ye   have   done    it  ^  _             ^        ,          .  ^               ^ 
unto  me  (Mt.  25:35,  40).  o^  Jesus  when  he  said: 
T_,  f.  -1  n    1  .  ...  Come,  ye  blessed  of  my  Father, 
Few  of  us  may  be  called  upon  to      ^,,1,^,^^  the  kingdom  prepared  for  you  from 
give  heroic  service  such  as  was  given     the  foundation  of  the  world  (Mt.  25:34). 
vi/ork    n ieeting — Living  More  Abundantly 
(A  Course  Recommended  for  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  3— Living  Economically 
Elder  WiWmn  F.  Edwards 
For  Tuesday,  December  10,  1957 
Objective:  To  understand  that  wise  people,  whether  their  income  is  relatively  large 
or  small,  learn  that  it  is  good  to  live  economically,  because  it  is  a  good  way  of  life. 
npHE  previous  lesson  discussed  the  gets,  and  it  is  equally  important  for 
importance  of  budget  planning,  all,  rich  and  poor  alike.  The  writer 
We  have  all  observed  in  others,  or  will  always  remember  his  first  trip 
have  been  tempted  sufficiently  to  with  members  of  his  family  to  Vic- 
learn  by  experience,  that:  toria,  Canada.     In  the  government 
building  in  this  beautiful  city  these 
One  sure  way  to  make  life  miserable  is  words  are  on  display: 
to  live  in  a  manner  that  you  can't  afford 
(Richard  L.  Evans).  \\ri.u     i.  u      •  ^ 
^  '  Without  economy  none  can  be  rich; 
r^      ,^         ,111  1  1  With  it  none  can  be  poor, 
Un  the  other  hand,  we  have  also  ^ 
come  to  realize  that:  ^^^^  3^^^;^^,^  proverbs  re-empha- 
If  there  is  any  one  thing  that  will  bring      size  this  important  principle  of  sue- 
peace  and   contentment   into   the   human      cesstul  nvmg: 
heart,  and   into  the   family,   it   is   to   live 
within  our  means  (Heber  J.  Grant).  Eat  and  drink,  but  waste  not  by  excess, 
for  God  loveth  not  the  wasters  (Abrabian 
Tht  Importance  oi  Economy  Proverb). 
Living    economically    is    a    basic         . ,       .    .  i.  •    m      lu  ^    \  ■  ^ 
-.       ,       °       ,   r       ,  i  ,  No  gain  is  more  certain  than  that  which 
fundamental  for  happmess  and  sue-  proceeds  from  the  economical  use  of  what 
cess  that  is  logically  related  to  bud-      we  have   (Latin  Proverb).

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
627 
Life  oi  the  Master 
In  this  day,  when  so  many  people 
are  stressing  the  physical  standards 
of  living  above  the  real  joy  of  living, 
it  is  good  to  reflect  upon  the  cir- 
cumstances surrounding  the  life  of 
the  Master. 
The  birth  of  Jesus  was  one  of 
the  greatest  events  in  history.  In 
keeping  with  its  importance,  his 
birth  was  preceded  by  heavenly  di- 
rected preparations,  and  it  was 
heralded  by  angels.  He  could  have 
been  born  in  a  castle,  with  parents 
of  worldlv  fame,  and  showered  with 
wealth.  'Tor  with  God  nothing 
shall  be  impossible"  (Luke  1:37). 
His  mother  knew  that  he  was  the 
Christ  Child,  and  she  was  con- 
cerned over  his  safety  and  comfort. 
But  ''she  brought  forth  her  firstborn 
son,  and  wrapped  him  in  swaddling 
clothes,  and  laid  him  in  a  manger" 
(Luke  2:7). 
Joseph  was  apparently  a  humble 
carpenter.  Mary  cared  for  her  baby 
and  provided  for  his  needs  in  mod- 
est circumstances.  Apparently,  this 
was  the  best  environment  for  the 
growth  and  development  of  Jesus  for 
his  great  mission.  "And  the  child 
grew,  and  waxed  strong  in  spirit, 
filled  with  wisdom:  and  the  grace  of 
God  was  upon  him"  (Luke  2:40). 
Later,  when  Jesus  undertook  his 
mission,  he  tra\'eled  "without  purse 
or  scrip."  Surely,  in  this  experience 
we  find  a  lesson  for  all  families. 
Lessons  From  Book  oi  Mormon 
The  Book  of  Mormon  includes 
many  incidents  where  people  be- 
came strong  because  of  experience 
that  forced  them  to  live  with  ex- 
treme economy  and  to  be  humble, 
and  then  in  a  few  years,  with  pros- 
perity, they  began   to   live  extrava- 
gantly and  lost  their  faith.  In  Alma, 
chapter  4,  we  find  this  whole  cycle 
recorded  in  ten  brief  verses.  In  the 
sixth  year  after  the  appointment  of 
the  judges,  the  people  were  suffer- 
ing because  of  "the  loss  of  their 
flocks  and  herds,  and  also  for  the 
loss  of  their  fields  of  grain  ..."  from 
economic  poverty.  But  this  humble 
environment  was  a  blessing  for  the 
people,  as  "they  were  awakened  to 
a  remembrance  of  their  duty.  And 
they  began  to  establish  the  church 
more  fully.  .  .  ."  The  Lord  blessed 
them  because  of  their  repentant  at- 
titude.   But  within  two  years: 
.  .  .  the  people  of  the  church  began  to 
wax  proud,  because  of  their  exceeding 
riches,  and  their  fine  silks,  and  their  fine- 
twined  linen,  and  because  of  their  many 
flocks  and  herds,  and  their  gold  and  their 
silver,  and  all  manner  of  precious  things, 
which  they  had  obtained  by  their  industry; 
and  in  all  these  things  they  were  lifted  up 
in  the  pride  of  their  eyes,  for  they  began 
to  wear  very  costly  apparel  (Alma  4:6). 
The  Lord  blessed  the  people,  and 
they  became  prosperous.  This  was 
good.  The  unfortunate  mistake  was 
that  the  people  ceased  to  live  eco- 
nomically and  to  remain  humble, 
but  rather  became  proud  of  their 
wealth  and  became  worldly.  Obser- 
vations of  the  working  of  the  same 
cycle  in  more  modern  times  has 
given  validity  to  the  statement, 
"from  shirt  sleeves  to  shirt  sleeves 
in  three  generations."  History  has 
revealed  the  wisdom,  and  the 
Church  in  its  conduct  constantly 
sets  the  example,  of  the  importance 
of  living  economically. 
Thoughts  for  Discussion 
The  following  are  suggested  chal- 
lenging observations  for  discussion:

628 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1957 
1.  To    those  who   have   above   average 
means: 
a.  Have  you  kept  your  sights  on  the 
things  that  are  eternal?  Are  you 
able  to  resist  the  frequent  tenden- 
cy when  people  become  rich  in 
the  things  of  this  world  of  becom- 
ing less  rich  or  even  poor  in  the 
real  values  that  are  eternal? 
b.  It  may  be  wise  to  look  upon  pros- 
perity as  an  opportunity  fraught 
with  danger.  The  danger  is  that 
we  may  become  worldly,  over- 
stress  the  physical,  and  rear  our 
children  in  an  environment  that 
is  not  conducive  to  maximum 
spiritual,  moral,  and  educational 
growth. 
C.  Are  you  depriving  your  children  of 
those  experiences  that  helped  to 
mold  your  character  and  taught 
you  the  valuable  lessons  of  work, 
thrift,  and  appreciation? 
If  you  say  to  your  children 
that  you  can't  afford  something 
that  they  wish,  and  your  children 
know  that  this  is  not  true,  this 
will  only  stimulate  their  efforts  to 
find  a  way  of  persuading  you  to 
give  in.  On  the  other  hand,  if 
the  children  are  taught  by  precept 
and  example  that  it  is  good  to 
live  economically,  not  because  you 
have  to,  but  because  it  is  good, 
they  will  understand  that  many 
things  that  others  have  are  not 
desirable,  and  they  will  support 
you  in  your  family  leadership. 
d.  To  have  above  average  means  is 
a  blessing  if  one  remembers  that 
the  blessing  lies  in  the  increased 
power  to  be  of  service.  It  may 
be  easier  to  be  meek  when  poor, 
but  it  may  be  more  noble  to  be 
meek  when  rich! 
2.  To   those   who  have  below   average 
means: 
a.  One  can  be  very  limited  in  world- 
ly possessions  and  rich  in  values 
that  are  eternal.  The  real  values 
include  good  work  habits,  cleanli- 
ness, honesty,  love  and  good  will 
toward  fellow  men,  and  a  desire 
to  serve. 
b.  Inspire  your  children  with  a  desire 
for  knowledge,  to  excell  in  their 
studies,  and  to  be  strong  in  their 
faith  and  loyal  to  the  Church. 
From  children  thus  taught  will 
come  the  great  men  and  women 
of  tomorrow. 
c.  Always  say,  with  true  sincerity, 
"I  will  share  what  I  have,  and  if 
I  had  more  I  would  give  more." 
The  outstanding  examples  in  the 
teachings  of  the  Master  of  people 
giving  were  not  the  rich  sharing 
their  abundance,  but  the  people 
of  limited  means  sharing  because 
of  the  goodness  of  their  hearts. 
The  gift  of  the  equivalent  of  the 
widow's  mite  is  always  received 
with  complete  appreciation  if 
given  "not  grudgingly,  or  of  neces- 
sity; for  God  loveth  a  cheerful 
giver"  (II  Corinthians  9:7). 
d.  It  would  be  unwise  to  look  upon 
being  poor  as  a  failure  to  receive 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  unless 
this  condition  is  due  to  one's  own 
failure  and  unwillingness  to  do 
those  things  that  bring  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord.  The  Lord 
always  blesses  the  poor  who  be- 
come strong  in  spirit. 
3.  To  all — the  rich  and  the  poor: 
a.  One  is  poor  if  "keeping  up  with 
the  Joneses"  becomes  of  greater 
concern  than  doing  what  is  right. 
b.  One  is  poor  if  he  covets  the  things 
owned  by  others  and  cannot  re- 
joice in  seeing  others  enjoy  world- 
ly possessions  (that  he  may  be 
unable  to  buy  or  chooses  not  to 
acquire).