[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  September  i,  and  September  15,  1897 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
HAWAII:  Hawaii  is  a  grou-p,  or  rather  a  string  of  sunny  islands  of  a  gentle 
tropical  climate  .  .  .  embosomed  midst  the  placid  waters  of  the  Pacific,  2,100  miles 
southwest  from  San  Francisco  and  nearly  the  same  distance  north  from  Tahiti.  An 
offspring  of  the  sea,  the  result  of  volcanic  unheavals,  their  origin  verified  by  extinct 
craters  fastened  here  and  there  amidst  the  hills  and  on  the  mountain  heights  of  the 
group,  and  by  the  still  blazing  fires  of  that  molten  lake  —  the  fiery  Kilauea.  Of  the 
ten  islands  two  are  little  more  than  barren  rocks,  two  are  used  exclusively  as  cattle 
ranges,  and  the  six  principal  ones  are  luxurious  in  bloom  and  beauty.  .  .  . 
— M.  A.  J.  Lambert 
THE  QUERY 
Shadow  and  sun  are  alike  to  the  Giver! 
His  hand  in  wisdom  appointeth  the  way. 
The  glory  He  willeth  beyond  the  dark  river, 
Will  solve  all  the  mystery  shrouding  today.  .  .  . 
— H.  W.  Naisbitt 
THE  WOMEN  OF  AMERICA:  I  think  it  is  not  strange  that  we  pause  for  a 
moment  in  this  enlightened  day  to  pay  a  tender  tribute  of  praise  to  the  silent  suffering 
hearts  that  have  labored,  yearned  and  died  for  the  cause  of  Liberty  and  the  prosperity 
of  our  nation.  Labored  in  silence  and  devotion,  caring  for  no  other  honor  than  to  be 
worthy  wives  and  mothers  of  our  heroes  and  noble  men.  Since  the  day  when  the 
Queen  of  Castile  offered  her  jewels  to  the  dreamer  of  Genoa  to  carry  him  out  into  the 
sea  of  darkness,  into  the  unknown  world,  the  patient,  loving  sacrifices  of  women  have 
not  only  followed  but  lead  in  every  movement  for  the  cause  of  humanity,  and  the 
glory  of  the  New  World.  .  .  . 
— Emily  Ray 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  IN  SAN  FRANCISCO:  Feeling  sure  the  sisters  in  Zion 
would  be  pleased  to  hear  something  of  the  mission  work  here  in  California,  I  shall  .  .  . 
tell  of  the  Relief  Society  organized  by  President  E.  H.  Nye,  June  3,  1897.  .  .  .  Sister 
W.  A.  Rattenbery  was  oppointed  President;  Isabella  Y.  Sewell  First  Counselor;  Harriet 
Simpkins  Second  Counselor;  Chircazade  Woodward,  treasurer;  Ida  M.  Sarll,  secretary 
and  teacher.  There  are  about  twenty-eight  members  in  all,  and  a  more  earnest,  loving 
band  of  sisters  could  not  be  found  on  this  beautiful  earth.  .  .  .  Much  good  is  being 
done,  several  quilts  have  been  made,  besides  the  mending  being  done  each  week  for 
the  Elders.  .  .  . 
—Ida  M.  Sarll 
ADVERTISEMENT:  Mrs.  Kate  Bridewell  Anderson,  formerly  of  New  Orleans, 
and  recently  of  Ogden,  has  opened  a  vocal  studio  in  Unity  Hall.  .  .  .  Operatic  repertoire 
a  specialty. 
Page  596