[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: Dora]
[Dora Jolley Pursues a Hobby of Handwork]

iF or This I Have Y earned Mabel Law Atkinson HERE now, Michael John Terrance, Junior, I think you look handsome enough to please Michael John, Senior, when he comes home, don't you? You know I believe you and I together will make a rather pleasing picture to greet your father on this very special occasion." Margaret Terrance, who ten minutes before had been hoping and even praying that the children would stay asleep until after Michael came, so she could be looking her very prettiest to greet him, held her small son at arm's length as she continued, "Yes, you will do nicely with your hair combed and your face shining. In fact you are adorable, Michael John, Junior." "Pm Mickey, Mother. Don't you know?" "Yes, darling, you are Mickey; but you are also Michael John Tertance, Junior." She gave him an impulsive hug and continued, "And at three-going-on-four, you are a small replica of your father." "What does plica mean, Mother?" "It means that you and Daddy are alike as two peas, though one is small and one is large." Before another question was forthcoming, Margaret held little Michael close and said, "Grow up to be just like Daddy, won't you darling? Just like him in every little way." "I will. I love Daddy, too, Mother." "Now let's finish our preparations. Everything must be perfect for Daddy tonight. If only Tommy and the twins will stay asleep. You see I must get fixed up pretty, too." "You are always pretty, Mother." "Thank you, Mickey; but even you must admit I'm prettier sometimes than others. And this must be one of the times when I'm prettiest. Ncw you sit in the big rocker and look at your picture book while I make myself beautiful. Daddy mustn't miss too much not getting a gift this year." At that moment a cry from the bedroom told her that the baby had awakened sooner than usual from his afternoon sleep. "Oh, dear, just when I needed time more than anything else! Mickey, can you be Mother's big man and rock the cradle? Perhaps Tommy will go back to sleep and not waken the twins." "Sure, Mother. I know how to rock the cradle.", Soon Margaret heard the gentle thythmic creak of the loved old cradle that had soothed all her mother's babies, and the cries ceased. She took one last inspection' of the table, set in the dining room for the occasion, and decided it was perfect. She smiled, knowing Michael would exclaim, "My, my, the prettiest cake ever!" when he saw the white-frosted creation with "Happy Anniversary" done in tiny pink flowers, with five pink candles in the center. Then she slipped quickly into her prettiest afternoon frock, patted her curls in place, and she was ready with about ten minutes to spare before Michael would arrive. She was congratulating herself on Page 605 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 the luxury of these moments when Mickey called from the bedroom, "Mother, 'Tommy won't go to sleep, but he's good as can be, and the twins are awake, too, so may I quit rocking the cradle?" There goes my luck! Thought Margaret. Oh, well, every cloud has a sparkling lining, if we but look for it. Who knows, perhaps a diamond one this time? Her thoughts were racing ahead as she called cheerfully, "Yes, dear, you may stop now." She went into the crib-filled room, kissed Mickey as she thanked him, then lifted Mary and Katherine, plump little cherubs of two, from their cribs, took up wee 'Tommy, and smiling at the dew-sweet wonder in three pair of eyes, said happily, "Tl tell you what! Let's all be waiting at the gate for Daddy tonight. All his family. That can be his gift, his smiling family to welcome him home. Come, only a few minutes to brush curls and put on fresh dresses. Daddy will be starting home by now." ICHAEL, walking home, was taking great strides that spoke his eagerness. Under his arm was a long slim parcel. "Not much of a gift," he mused rather ruefully "but even pennies have to be counted these days." Then a smile illuminated his features as his thoughts raced on, "Four little Terrances and only five years married! I just hope Margaret never regrets taking me instead of Robert Barker. Now he would be bringing her five dozen instead of just one red rose." He sobered at the thought. He was half a block away when he saw them: Margaret holding up two-months-old little 'Tommy for him to see, and Mickey holding the hands of the twin girls. His face broke into smiles again and he held out his arms. 'The three children tan to meet him squealing their delight.