[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 29 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Heaton]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Southern Far East Mission Luana C. Heaton]
nated his  features  as  his  thoughts 
raced  on,  'Tour  little  Terrances 
and  only  five  years  married!  I  just 
hope  Margaret  never  regrets  taking 
me  instead  of  Robert  Barker.  Now 
he  would  be  bringing  her  five  dozen 
instead  of  just  one  red  rose."  He 
sobered  at  the  thought. 
He  was  half  a  block  away  when 
he  saw  them:  Margaret  holding  up 
two-months-old  little  Tommy  for 
him  to  see,  and  Mickey  holding  the 
hands  of  the  twin  girls.  His  face 
broke  into  smiles  again  and  he  held 
out  his  arms.  The  three  children 
ran  to  meet  him  squealing  their  de- 
light. With  a  twin  in  each  arm,  his 
parcel  still  under  one,  and  Mickey 
hugging  one  of  his  legs,  he  came  to 
Margaret,  and  in  a  way  known  only 
to  fathers  whose  love  is  all-embrac- 
ing, he  included  her  and  baby 
Tommy  in  his  already  overflowing 
arms. 
"Tiss  me!  Tiss  me!"  chorused  the 
twins  as  he  kissed  his  wife. 
"You  little  imps!  I've  already 
kissed  you,  but  here's  another,  and 
now  Mother  must  have  one  more, 
too." 
"Better  kiss  Mickey  again,  too, 
darling,"  whispered  Margaret  as  lips 
pressed  her  cheek. 
"Now  you  three  girls  can  walk 
to  the  house.  I  want  to  carry  my 
two  sons."  He  put  down  the  twins, 
picked  up  a  laughing  and  dancing 
little  Mickey,  kissing  him  as  he  did 
so,  set  him  on  one  shoulder,  gave 
him  the  parcel  to  hold,  and  held 
out  his  free  arm,  saying,  "Mother, 
put  my  wee  son  in  this  arm,  will 
you?    There,  that's  fine." 
Margaret  took  a  hand  of  each  of 
the  little  girls,  and  with  laughing 
voices,  tripping  feet,  and  singing 
hearts,  the  happy  group  entered  the 
house. 
"My,  my,  the  prettiest  cake  ever!" 
Machael  caught  the  implication  in 
Margaret's  twinkling  eyes  and  de- 
fended himself  by  saying,  "It  really 
is  the  prettiest.  You  see  it's  the 
only  one  that  has  had  five  candles 
to  light.    Imagine,  Mrs.  Terrance!

FOR  THIS  I  HAVE  YEARNED  607 
Five    long   years!    Think   you    can  sparkling  vase,  she  repeated  softly, 
manage  another  five?"  ''  If  eyes   were   meant   for   seeing, 
''With  flying  colors,  my  dear.  I  then  beauty  is  its  own  excuse  for 
long  to  be  ten  years  married  to  a  being,'  thank  you,  darling/'  And 
certain  Michael  Terrance.  No  fifty  she  drew  him  down  to  her  to  place 
years  married!  Sounds  so  matronly  a  kiss  on  his  forehead, 
and  serene  and  secure."  The  anniversary  dinner  was  a  joy- 
In  almost  no  time  baby  Tommy  ous  affair,  with  Daddy  helping  to 
was  in  his  buggy  near  the  table,  the  feed  Mary  and  Katherine.  Before  he 
twins  were  in  their  highchairs,  and  lit  the  candles,  Michael  had  little 
Mickey  on  his  special  chair  his  fa-  Tommy  in  his  arms.  And  how  four 
ther  had  made  just  the  right  height  pairs  of  wee  bright  eyes  danced,  and 
for  him.  two    mature   pairs    glowed    as    the 
candles  burned! 
^^"piVE  years  married!     Where's  ''Sure  there  are  no  regrets,  Mrs. 
that    box?     Oh,    here,    Marg-  Terrance?"     Michael's    voice    was 
aret,"    Michael    handed    the    long,  music  so  low  Margaret  could  barely 
slim    parcel    to    her   as    he    spoke,  hear. 
"Open  your  fifth  anniversary  gift."  Regrets?  .  .  .  thought  Margaret. 
"But     Michael,     you     shouldn't  Then  time  spun  backward.    Again 
have!    You   know   we   decided   to-  Robert    Barker    was    saying,    "And 
gether."    But  her  fingers  flew  and  Margaret,  there  won't  be  any  chil- 
her  face  glowed  her  pleasure.  dren  for  at  least  five  years.  Just  you 
"I  know,  dearest,  but  I  couldn't  and  I  loving  each  other.   Why  life 
resist  just  one."  will  be  one  long,  delightful  holiday 
"One  perfect  rose!    Oh,  Michael,  for  us,  with   one  or  two  children 
you    couldn't    have    given    a    nicer  perhaps." 
gift."  "Regrets?"  Margaret  said  it  aloud 
"It  should  have  been  five  at  least,  this  time  and  looked  into  four  per- 
if  not  five  dozen."  feet  little  faces,  thinking,  for  these 
"No,  Michael,  one  is  even  more  and  more  I  have  yearned  all  my  life, 
beautiful.  One  perfect  rose  ...  in  For  this  was  I  born.  Then,  lifting 
my  crystal  vase!  I  love  perfection,  her  eyes,  clear  and  shining,  to  her 
and  you  have  given  it  to  me."  As  husband's,  she  answered,  "No  re- 
she  placed  the  rose  in  water  in  the  grets.    Happy  anniversary,  darling!" 
Seed  of  JLace 
Maryhale  Woolsey 
Summerlong,  the  country  lanes 
Were  delicately  bordered 
With  frothy  ''Queen's  Lace,"  airing  as 
"Her  Majesty"  had  ordered. 
But  summering  is  over  now, 
And  all  the  fragile  laces 
Repose  in  tiny  satchels,  packed 
For  travel  to  far  places.

The  Bright  Star 
Chapter  7  (Condusion) 
Dorothy  S.  Romney 
Synopsis:  Kathy  Tracy,  an  orphan  who 
wishes  to  become  an  artist,  hves  with  her 
Aunt  Emerald  Jewel  Tracy  in  an  old-fash- 
ioned house  overlooking  San  Francisco 
Bay.  She  had  planned  to  accept  an  office 
position  offered  her  by  a  neighbor  and 
friend  of  the  family,  Phineas  Fenton,  but 
her  Aunt  Em  suffers  a  partial  stroke,  and 
Kathy  remains  at  home  to  care  for  her. 
During  her  illness  Aunt  Em  mentions 
something  about  a  sea  chest  in  the  China 
house  and  a  Bright  Star,  vyhich  Kathy  be- 
lieves may  hold  the  secret  of  her  parent- 
age. Her  romance  with  Jim  Parker  finally 
comes  to  an  end  when  Jim  becomes  inter- 
ested in  Lina  Carlson,  a  neighbor,  and 
decides  to  marry  her.  In  the  meantime. 
Marc  Hale,  a  stranger,  rents  the  China 
house  and  gives  Kathy  encouragement  in 
the  painting  of  a  picture  which  she  in-
