Leone O. Jacobs Former Member, General Board of Relief Society thirty be about the right time?" Immediately, a warm feeling came over me, the d brighter, and my Spirits rose perOne's friends are endowed with an amazing variety of temperaments and qualities of character, and each one adds much to life and makes of it an interesting 408 and joyous experience. There are the old friends and the new friends, the casual friends, and the close confidants,. Each fills 4 particular niche in one's life. Dear Mary seems always to be happy and full of wit. H er! To be in her presence is to have one's morale lifted Skyward. Always an optimist, burdens aplenty, though they are kept hidden from view. There js wasting precious time and effort on foolish endeavors. Dear Harriet! I am so grateful she is just the way she is. So big-hearted, so free from prejudice and criticism of others. I feel completely relaxed in her company. And so, each one holds a special place in my heart! For old friends I have great affection. I do not refer to old in point of years, but in the length of our association. These are my childhood friends, the friends with whom I attended school, whose lives are known to me and mine to them. They know my family background, my teachers, my weaknesses and strengths, our Church and community activities. I shall never lose interest in these whose lives have been so intimately interwoven with mine. It matters not how divergent our paths have been in the intervening years. "We grew up together," I announce proudly when introducing them to others. "We came from the same town."' How wonderful that as we grow older the events we shared in bygone days remain clear! Precious, vivid memories! THEN there are the new friends one makes from time to time. What a delight, what an unexpected pleasure is each one — an added gem in one's collection of blessings! To some we are immediately and mysteriously attracted, as if by a magnet. With such there need be no period of "setting acquainted." We are right away good friends. A choice experience it is to meet someone whose nature, we sense instinctively, will harmonize with our own! And what a happy prospect YOU, DEAR FRIENDS it is to realize that just any day we may meet some sweet person who will be a joy to us forever. For there is no quota on friendships. We may go on and on gathering them into our familiar circle. The casual friends also bring happiness into our lives. How pleasant to meet acquaintances on the street or at a social function, to receive a warm smile, a handshake, and a "How do you do? So nice to see you." One feels identified with his fellow beings and at one with the world. Then there are the friends one makes while serving in the Church. These are no doubt some of the choicest associations of all. How could individuals become closer than by being partners in the work of the Lord? There is so much in common; one's goals and standards are the same. One's best is expected and one's best is willingly given. The spirit of love is dominant, and a_ bond of fellowship develops that may last throughout eternity. And, lastly, there are the special few who are one's tried and true confidants, to whom one's innermost thoughts are confided, and in whom one puts his complete trust and love. These are as we imagine the Biblical friendship between David and Jonathan. Every person needs one or more such close friends. To be able to talk over one's problems with such a friend is of inestimable value, a stabilizing and sustaining influence. And so, truly grateful I am for friends — the new, the old, the tried, the true, and the ones who are to be. God bless them every one!