MY ENGLISH TEXTBOOK the Prophet Joseph Smith. This was the light that led them and made it possible to endure all things. True, I had no wilderness to fight, no mob violence to meet. But there were other battles to be won, a new language, to meet the challenge of life away from home and parental guidance in a strange land. Soon I found myself looking forward to the evenings when I could sit and read The s. They became my friends, my counselors, my advisors. They were helpers upon whose aid and wisdom I could rely. They were good company and kept me from feeling so alone. The M agazine met so many of my needs. Some day I wanted to marry, have a family, be a good homemaker, besides learning about the gospel through the Magazine. Here were tested recipes, sewing suggestions, budget planning. Reading from this book I came upon this familiar statement: "The women of yesterday thought and thought and then spent, while the women of today spend and spend and then think." I remember the first time I made corn-bread from a recipe in the Magazine. I really felt proud and happy, when the lady I worked for said it was very good. "Did you bring this recipe from Sweden?" I had never heard of cornbread before. I was so thrilled when she asked me for a copy. I, writing English! Many times when in doubt what to have for dinner, she would ask: "Seen any good recipes in the Magazine lately?" If someone should ask me from what department of The did I get the most help in learning a new language, I could not truthfully name one in particular. Each one filled my needs and gave me strength in so many ways. To me it has been a priceless privilege to become acquainted with the at an early age. The Magazine helped me keep in touch with the Church and learn of its teachings. When attending the sacrament meetings, when I first came to Salt Lake City, it seemed everyone talked so fast. I had a hard time to follow the speaker. Not so with my Magazine. Here I could sit down and take time learning every word till I knew its meaning. Sometimes learning a new language can have its humorous sides. I remember the time I had tried a recipe from the Magazine, "Chicken a la King." One day as I was walking to my sister's, I walked by a house with a sign in the window, which said: "Chicken Pox." Chicken 4 la King, Chicken Pox, where was the difference? Anyway, it must be good and homemade, having a sign in the window. It would be much fun to surprise my sister with something good. After the sweet lady had explained to me what chicken pox was, we both had a good laugh. The has introduced me to so many friends, many of them gone long ago. Their influence has been felt in my life. I never read the Magazine without feeling the love and sweet influence of the sisters who edit the Magazine. They have given me a well-balanced understanding of the important things in life. It has contributed to my spiritual growth. Within me has been born a desire to be a better mother, wife, and homemaker. I still fall short of my goal, but I hope I will continue to learn and improve with the help of my Heavenly Father. I like to bear my testimony to you of the truth of the gospel. I want to express the joy that I have in the privilege of living in this wonderful land. I know that God lives, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet, and there is not a doubt in my mind, but that David O. McKay is a true prophet of God. I am so grateful to my Heavenly Father for all the blessings he has showered upon me and mine. They are too numerous to mention and too wonderful to understand. I pray our Heavenly Father to strengthen us in all we attempt to do that is right and proper. May we take from the simple things at hand and build our happiness. May we glorify his name by living lives worthy of his blessings. I pray that I may always walk in humility and obedience before him. This I do humbly and in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. All THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY and a pink ribbon sash. I wore matching bows of ribbon on each of my two long braids. The three of us wore heavy ribbed long black cotton stockings, and black laced shoes. Papa, a bit restless in church, kept pulling at his collar and crossing and uncrossing his legs, much to the annoyance of Mama. When closing prayer was said, he wasted no time ushering us out to our waiting Lizzie. Mama barely had time for a few handshakes and words of greeting. Lizzie needed no coaxing today, just one twist on the crank handle and she purred like a kitten. Papa slid over the side and under the steering wheel. He adjusted the spark, took off the brake, pulled down the gas, and we were off at a moderate rate of speed, about fifteen miles per hour, waving goodbye to our friends. It always pleased Papa as he left our friends behind in their carriages and horses, staring after us. Down Main Street we went without making the usual turn for home. "Where are we going?" inquired Mama, as we passed by our street. "Oh, I thought you might like a little ride," said Papa. "We should have gone home first and changed our clothes," remarked Mama, not wanting to get dusty, and worrying about the breeze ruining her plumes. "We won't be long," said Papa, slowing down a little. It was such a lovely drive down past the depot, across the river bridge, and along the side of the hill. A short distance to the left, the dangerous river wound its way through pasture lands, and chattering magpies flew in and out the willows and bullberry bushes. On and on we went, thoroughly enjoying the scenery. Papa was always happy when escorting Lizzie around. Now and then a little breeze swayed the feathers on Mama's hat, and the sun played hide-and-go-seek through the lacy brim. I loved to watch the shadows dance about on her lovely face. The road was becoming more rough, and she held a little tighter to her hat to keep it from bobbing up and down. "Those look like sheep tracks along the hill, don't they?' inquired Mama. 'They sure do," replied Papa, "and not more than a day or two old." "T think we had better turn back, Ed. It's getting quite dusty," said Mama apprehensively. But Papa was busy scanning the hillside. Then, quite unexpectedly, Peter cried, ""Look out, Papa, some sheeps!"' Papa slammed on his brake just in time to avoid hitting an old ewe and two baby lambs coming onto the road. The sudden force threw Mama against the windshield, brushing her forehead and bending her hat. Her hat pins pulled loose and with them came strands of long black hair. Papa's derby flew off his head and rolled 413 il], luckily Catching in a bush before reachj he river The frightened Sheep took off up the hil] aS Pana ent o Lizzie'. Side, to chase after his hat. He came back, brushing ff dir and try ng to push out the ents. Mama On the point f tea "Just look My new hat!" C cried, More conc Tned about i than the bruise her Orehead, "7 CW We should have 0ne home irst,"' Silently, Papa adjusted his hat e€gs bac " Cranked up Lizzie, threw his k over the side and Started down the road, trying to keep out of the deep Wagon-whee] ruts, "Must have been Some stra TMM the Sheepherd. Sometimes 4n old ewe Will hide under brush to lamb, and if the erders don't notice her, She's left behind," Sa a, But around an d let's at. B lying under a gs out, except Mama, to loo K at the litt] ° move, but Just looked Sa a eh it home With ys?" P I begged lease, Papa." Y you don't 1 Your mother " In her Opinion there ur nice Clean Lizzi la smelly Sheep, But wi Sympathy for the l€ Was definitely Ith three children feeling SO much little lamb, 5 C gave her Consent. "Where Will you keep jt" She asked mmediately € assured her we Would build jt a little en. "Don't feel ba f it doesn't live," Cautioned Papa. "Tt's pretty weak, and we might have trouble feeding tae 414 THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY Gently he picked up the lamb and laid it on the floor in the back of the car. WE were about to start back when we heard a baa, baa, coming from a clump of bushes near a fence. It sounded like a cry for help. Papa, who was in the process of cranking Lizzie, looked toward Mama, then took off down the slope to investigate. "Stay in the car, children, I don't want you to get your clothes dirty," ordered Mama. "Addie!" called Papa, "bring me that white rag under the front seat, this sheep has a broken leg." Reluctantly Mama stood up from the seat, so I could pull out the rag. The sheep was caught in the fence, and in its struggle to get free had somehow broken its leg. Only too happy to be of help, I started on the run down the hill, and as is so often the case on a hillside, I tripped on a stump of sagebrush, which caused my downfall. I arose with the knees out of my stockings, and skin off my knees. "Why don't you watch where you're going?" was Papa's remark of sympathy as I limped up to him with tears running down my cheeks, and handed him the rag. "Now hand me that stick," he said, pointing to one just out of his reach. "Now grab hold of his hind legs while I put on a splint!" Even though the animal was lying flat on its side with Papa astride it, I had all I could do to hang onto those kicking legs. With this act of mercy accomplished, Papa suggested we get back to Lizzie. I lifted up my blood-stained petticoats from my bleeding knees, and followed behind. "Addie, what makes you so clumsy? Just look at yourself. All we need is another stray sheep and the day will be completely ruined," groaned Mama. I took my place on the back seat, being careful not to step on the little lamb. My knees hurt, but I fought back the tears and said nothing. Unfastening my garters, I rolled down the kneeless stockings to ease the pain. No one cared how much I was suffering. "Are you going to leave the poor sheep, Papa?" James asked. "The coyotes will get it, Papa. Don't leave it for the coyotes to get," whimpered Peter. "We have all the sheep we are going to have!" said Mama. '"He'll be good, Mama." Another baa, baa, from the sheep, and James begged, "He wants to go with us, listen! I don't want to leave him for the coyotes." Little Peter began to cry. "Stand up a little, will you, Bess? Let me get that piece of rope from under the seat," said Papa to Mama. "Surely you don't intend to put another sheep in with us?" she asked, rising obediently. With rope in hand he headed for the helpless animal. It had occurred to him that, come winter, it would make good mutton. Why leave it for the coyotes when we could enjoy eating it? The task of tying the back legs together, and carrying it to the Model T was laborious, but he managed. "Open the car door, James, and we'll put it beside the other one," he said. The little hungry lamb instinctively tried to find some much-needed nourishment from the new companion, but it wasn't the right kind of sheep. "Don't cry little sheeps,"' said Peter sympathetically, patting it on the head. "Sheep," corrected Mama. "I don't want to hear you say 'sheeps' again, Peter!"' | WE started for home. Papa and Mama were very quiet. James and Peter lay on their stomachs on the seat watching the sheep, and trying to calm them. At the top of the hill we noticed the old ewe and her twin lambs, feeding contentedly by the side of the road. Papa slowed down wondering what to do, and a little fearful of Mama's wrath. He thought of all the good winter meat we could have just for the taking, and decided to stop. "You couldn't possibly be thinking of taking more sheep?" Mama asked. "Bess, listen to reason, will you? Those sheep will give us all the mutton we need this winter,"' Papa tried to explain. "What would you suggest we do, get out and walk while you load up with sheep?" she retorted. Papa was trying to figure out how he could load all those sheep. He had no intention of leaving them behind. The one with the broken leg would cause less trouble up front beside Mama, he decided. The old ewe and the little ones would settle down beside her. The real trouble began when Papa started to put the crippled sheep in the front. "Lift up your skirts, Bess, and I'll set this cripple one in front," he said. "You'll do no such thing, I'll walk first!" threatened Mama, and out of the Ford she got, tight shoes and all. Papa looked down at her feet and decided to take a chance. He took off his stiff collar and derby hat, and laid them on the front seat, and started for the sheep. "Put a couple of rocks behind the back wheels, James, so she won't roll down hill. Addie, you take off your stockings, they're torn anyway, and you and Peter stand over there by the hill and don't let the sheep go past you." Holding my skirts away from my stinging knees, I did as he bade. We were never permitted to talk back to Papa. It was hard work trying to corner a sheep with two lambs, but we did. Papa grabbed the old ewe's two back legs so she couldn't kick, and tied them together with my black stockings. It took some doing to get those frightened sheep in Lizzie, and by the time we were through, our shoes were skinned, and our clothes torn and soiled. The little orphan lamb again searched for nourishment from the old mother, but the two stronger ones pushed it away. This 416 THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY 'You had better 80 on in the house with Mama and take care of those knees," said Papa, as he helped me over the side of the car. THE old €we, anxious to put her feet on solid ground, almost kicked off my stockings before Papa could get her tied to a tree, where she stayed until a pen was built. There was no fear of the lambs straying down its throat. Peter Spent hours coaxing his new pet to drink, Opportunity. They romped and Played until completely exhausted, then would drop down on the grass to rest and sometimes have a Said it was all imagination. VOLUME NUMBER. & ° IN the beautiful springtime of the year, in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 4, 5, and 6, 1964, the 134th Annual General Conference of the Church was held and commemorated the organization of the Church on the 6th of April 1830. The rapid growth of the Church was revealed by the announcement of a membership of 2,117,451 as of December 31, 1963, with the number of full-time missionaries listed as 11,653. The unity and strength, as well as the continuity of inspired leadership, were demonstrated by President McKay, in his ninety-first year, who presided at all the conference sessions and conducted part of them and in the appointment of Paul Harold Dunn, thirty-nine, to be the new member of the First Council of Seventy. In his opening address, President McKay appealed to the saints throughout the world to live the principles of the gospel and thereby strengthen themselves and their homes: This morning | have in mind giving a warning to all young people relating to three dangers threatening the success and happiness of youth: First — the pernicious habit of smoking cigarettes; second — the increasing number of divorces; third — the tendency to hold less sacred the moral standards. One of the most precious possessions is our families. The domestic relations precede, and, in our present existence, are worth more than all other social ties. They give the first throb of the heart and unseal the deep foundations of its love. Home is the chief school of human virtues. Its responsibilities, joys, sorrows, smiles, tears, hopes, solicitudes form the chief interests of human life. President Hugh B. Brown delivered an address in which he affirmed the meaning of the gospel of Jesus Christ in a world in which so many are frustrated in their search for truth. 418 wnual Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J.