Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for aay [O58. Page 47. And in the Relief Society Flandbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES European Mission, Relief Society Leaders and Singing Mothers at Servicemen's Conference, Bertchesgaden, Germany Upper picture, left to right: Mary Russon, Swiss Mission; Lyle Petersen, Norwegian; Frieda Loscher, 'Austrian; Jean Fletcher, Swedish; Ingred Sorensen, Danish; Ruth Benson, Central German; Emily Myers, North German; Frances Tate, Berlin; Genevieve Gardner, South German; Carolyn Brugger, Servicemen's Relief Society Coordinator, European Mission. Not in the picture: Minnie P. Burton, European Mission; Agnes Jacobs, Bavarian; Marilyn Anderson, Finnish; Edith McIntire, West German Mission. Lower picture: Singing Mothers who presented music for the conference. Sister Brugger reports: "For three spiritually filled days, we met and partook of the spirit of our wonderful leaders. There were two special meetings for Relief Society, one a special workshop for presidents and secretaries, with specific helps given on the annual report. A skit was presented to point out better ways to prepare the narrative section of the report. A question and answer period was informative to all. "On the final morning of this conference, our lovely spiritual Relief Society session was held. Edith McIntire, of the West German Mission, gave a farewell tribute to Minnie P. Burton, thanking her, on behalf of all of us, for the willing service she has given. The Germans refer to Sister Burton by saying, 'Sie ist eine Dame' (She is a lady). This is a German's highest tribute to a woman. A cut crystal candy dish was presented to Sister Burton to remind her of the love and respect we feel for her. Sister Burton, in her remarks, asked that we open the door for the Savior. Sister Maxine Hanks, of the British Mission, expressed the desire that we all have the proper attitudes. Sister Freda Joan Lee, wife of our beloved apostle Harold B. Lee, expressed a hope that we would pray with our children. Each sister who spoke left her testimony and love with us. "Singing Mothers from all parts of Europe blended their voices and gave moving renditions in the Relief Society sessions, and in a general session of the conference. When we left the beautiful Bavarian Alps, we had a renewed desire for service and stronger testimonies, and we were indeed spiritually fed and physically uplifted." Tacoma Stake (Washington), Tacoma First Ward Bazaar Left to right: Rosella Seal, First Counselor; Marion Harris, President; Vera Casto, Second Counselor; Bessie Groom, work meeting leader. Jennie Wheeler, President, Tacoma Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of the Tacoma First Ward proved the worth of hard work in preparing for their bazaar. They made a total of $550. About $140 was earned from serving a turkey dinner the evening of the bazaar, and the remainder came from items made by the sisters during the year. The pillowcases draped over the front of the table were made by Anna Conquest, a sister who is eighty-one years old. She averages a pair of pillowcases a month, but the month before the bazaar she made three pairs. All are solid embroidery. Best sellers at the bazaar were eighteen sets of tea towels, plus some singles; a dozen sets of pillowcases, two dozen cloth balls, detergent bottle covers, eleven doll quilts, four large quilts (with orders for more); two dozen cloth hangers, aprons, and children's clothing. We certainly felt that this fund-raising activity was an outstanding example of diligence and cooperation." Reseda Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Different Occasions Merlene Colarusso, President, Reseda Stake Relief Society, reports: "In recent months, the Reseda Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers chorus has presented a spring concert, commemorated the Society's anniversary, given an autumn concert, and was featured in the stake Inter-Faith social. Maryann M. Mendenhall is chorister, and Carol C. Cook, organist." Whittier Stake (California) ''Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair' September 20, 1963 Left to right: Jean Ann Bowman and Jacqueline Kaline, two of ninetythree models who participated in the fashion show. Rea W. Jorgensen is president of Whittier Stake Relief Society, with Bette McDonough and Alta Ellis as her counselors. Sister Jorgensen reports: " 'Come to the Fair — Our Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair.' With these words, the Whittier Stake Relief Society set the stage for a full evening of festivity and fashion. An ingenious carousel and a giant pink horse delighted both models and spectators as the curtains parted. Musical numbers were interspersed with a colorful narration which kept the fair moving at a lively pace. Models, from toddlers to grandmothers, came on stage in small groups to view the wonder and excitement created with paint and paper. "This fashion fair was the culmination of a summer sewing school held in each ward of the stake. Ensembles for all occasions were proudly worn by those who had taken advantage of this wonderful opportunity afforded them by the Relief Society. Various fashions shown included morning, afternoon, and evening wear, children's apparel, mother and daughter outfits, maternity wear, and accessory magic. As each of the ninety-three models walked down the ramp toward the many gaily decorated booths, a capacity audience of nearly 450 applauded their appreciation for the efforts of these sisters." Florida Mission, Florida West District Visiting Teachers Honored October 27, 1963 Front row, left to right: Carol Jean Sweetwood, theology class leader; Tottie Brown, visiting teacher adviser; Effie Tucker (thirty-four years of visiting teaching); Thursa Adisson (seventy-eight years old, oldest visiting teacher); Sister Wilson Allred, youngest visiting teacher; Stella Herring, President, West Florida District Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Nona Goodson, First Counselor; Florence Ewing, pianist; Dorothy Britsch, Secretary-Treasurer; Jo Ann Norton, Second Counselor; Tura Lee Buzzett, Magazine representative; Mary Etta Williamson, literature class leader. Loree Faircloth, social science class leader, and Gayle Farnsworth, chorister, were not present when the picture was taken. Ollie Hutchinson, President, Florida Mission Relief Society, reports: "The West Florida District honored the visiting teachers at leadership meeting, October 27, 1963. The film 'Unto the Least of These' was presented and enjoyed by all present. We feel that all were inspired by the meeting to be more prompt and faithful in magnifying their callings as visiting teachers. Corsages and Relief Society pins were presented to the sister with the most years of service, to the oldest sister, and to the youngest." Gooding Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Board Front row, left to right: former President Nina Beth G. Cunningham; Education Counselor Rula B. Johnson; Work Director Counselor Ada H. Reid; Secretary-Treasurer Rue Spencer. Back row, standing, left to right: Nellie H. Weaver, chorister; Virgie T. Packer, organist; Viola J. Gold, Magazine representative; Mary G. Lancaster, visiting teacher message leader; Juanita Hendrix, work meeting leader; Lucille A. Gibbs, literature class leader. Ulden Shupe, social science class leader. Sister Cunningham reports: "For the first time in the history of Gooding Stake in Southern Idaho, the full stake board attended the Relief Society Annual General Conference in , with the exception of the theology class leader, which position was not filled at that time. These sisters expressed great appreciation for the wonderful inspiration and helps given by the capable General Board sisters, and by the General Authorities. Each of the stake board members in the picture has served for many years in Relief Society work, and has given faithful and devoted service." Elaine P. Dixon is the new president of Gooding Stake Relief Society. Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Relief Society Annual Christmas Exhibit November 21, 1963 Left to right: Annalesa Strom, a native of Sweden, who demonstrated Christmas customs in Sweden; Evelyn Lewis, Work Director Counselor, Cowley Ward; Helen Snell, work meeting leader, Cowley Ward. Pauline R. Stevens, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each ward exhibited outstanding work and demonstrated the Christmas customs of other lands and served each visitor with a taste of native foods served at Christmastime in that land. The stake Relief Society board served punch and pretty cookies to all who attended, from a beautiful Christmas table. The purpose of this exhibit each year is to help our own sisters and give them ideas for Christmas, and also to mterest nonmembers. It has grown so large we are afraid our cultural hall will not be large enough for one day's display. Between five and six hundred people attended." North Davis Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Annual Christmas Concert, December 21, 1963 Susan W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'Amid the festive holiday splendor of poinsettias and holly, sixty Singing Mothers of the North Davis Stake sang songs of the Christmas season and hymns of praise to the Prince of Peace at their annual Christmas concert. It was an evening long to be remembered by families and friends who filled the chapel to overflowing. "The table in one foyer was decorated to depict an old-fashioned Christmas, with an oil lamp, bowls of shiny red apples and popcorn, and an old Bible opened to the Christmas story. Decorations in the other foyer portrayed "Peace on Earth," with a nativity scene, a Bible opened to Luke 2, candles and poinsettias. "The sisters were dressed in snowy white blouses and dark skirts, each with a colorful red Christmas corsage. As the narrator set the atmosphere for each musical number, colored slides of nativity scenes were shown to bring to our hearts the true spirit of Christmas. "Following the concert, refreshments, consisting of French pastries and fruited punch, were served at two beautifully decorated tables which added to the yuletide atmosphere. Iola Murray was the capable director of this lovely evening. The superb artistry upon the organ by Alice Gailey, and the equally beautiful accompaniment upon the piano by Marvetta Saunders (mother and daughter) were enjoyed by all. Talented guest artists presented special vocal and instrumental numbers. "These mothers have faithfully met at nine in the morning each Saturday to practice for the Christmas concert and stake conference. To be a Singing Mother is a joy and satisfaction which is held in high regard among our members. Susan W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, and her Counselors LaVon S. Reid and Vera Thurgood, and board members were responsible for the planning, decorations, and refreshments for this lovely and successful evening." During the year 1832 et Joseph Smith the Prophng them in 4 body Was in Ohio of faithfy] followey | except for abo WO months In a day Whe €mphasis jg While L0ing to and from Jackson Placed upon Individual responsjounty, Missouy; leven of th bility to do Issionary Work, we fifteen Sections that ake Up this learn through the Proph t Joseph Series of | SSOnS Were received in Smith that no Tesponsible per- | 1832 "Y Consist of s me of the SOn in the Church; free from better-kno Tevelations im the this obligation So Principles Octrine Covenants an Y whic €n shall] b Judged are aspects o se revelations are mention d, and the ttitude O Presented All of l € saints toward those not of the a Ould he Tue Church are indic ted. Studied as Sources Wisdom and One of the great Priesthood fuldance nN life. Includeq for Tevelations of thi sPensation Study this €ar ig €ction 76 Was Teceived in 1832. € saints Which h been called the grandwere imbued With th esire to est and st Wonderfy] revelation learn More about the Zion of the on the qd Stiny of Man that has latter day nd it glory. The €ver been revealed he TINCiples temple to C built in Jackson of j Stice, mercy, and Ove are County, Missour; ound therein, and th € Magna. Of pe Involving the sa]- vation of m on how well the citizens of the kingdom of God, male and female, honor the Priesthood are found in this material. Other aspects of the Priesthood are considered, such as the healing of the sick in the true Church. The loyal saint accepts the interpretations of the revelations from the First Presidency. Several times during this dispensation some interpreters of revelations have been misled in their desire to foster their own interests, and they have departed from the time-tested principles which keep the kingdom of God a house of order. A lesson is devoted to a revelation which has given rise to much speculation. Always the saint has found safety in heeding the guidance received from the leadership of the Church. Concluding this year's lessons is one of the most remarkable prophecies of modern times. One of the functions of the Lord's prophet is to warn the world of the consequences of evil-doing. Joseph Smith's mission as a prophet is confirmed in the prophecy on the American Civil War and the other events mentioned in that revelation. If there has ever been a time when the saints should listen to the prophet's voice it is in this day of prophesied war and other calamities. The 1964-65 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 57 — The Vision (D&C 76:1-49). Objective: To study the origin of Section 76; its teachings concerning eternal progression; the vision of God and Christ; and the meaning of Satan's victory and his defeat. Lesson 58 — The Vision (concluded) (D&C 76:50-119). Objective: To study God's plan for the salvation of all his children who can be saved. Lesson 59 — The Church Independent (D&C 78, 83). Objective: To study some important aspects of the law of consecration and the importance of unity within the Church. Lesson 60 — Individual Responsibility as a Member and Missionary (D&C 79, 80, 81, 82). Objective: To show individual missionary responsibility and that the Lord is bound when you do as he says. Lesson 61 — The Revelation on Priesthood (D&C 84:1-42). Objective: To understand the importance of the Priesthood in the salvation of man; the special blessings available to this generation of Priesthood bearers; and the importance of the Priesthood as reflected in its oath and covenant. Lesson 62 — The Revelation on Priesthood (concluded) (D&C 84:43-120). Objective: To appreciate that the Lord has provided many ways by which man may know and understand the plan of salvation and the place of the Priesthood in the plan. LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 63 — The One Mighty and Strong (D&C 85). Objective: To recognize the importance of adhering to the revelations of the Lord, and how claim to office may be tested. Lesson 64 — The Prophecies on Wars (D&C 86, 87). Objective: To understand the parable of the Wheat and the Tares and to study some prophecies given by Joseph Smith concerning the American Civil War and subsequent world events that witness him as a true prophet. Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Messages for 1964-65 Christine H. Robinson Tue Doctrine and Covenants, containing revelations and instructions given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, is our modern scripture designed to provide specific guidance to all of us in our daily lives. The pages of this remarkable scripture are full of fundamental truths which can help us achieve a higher level of joyous, purposeful living. The 1964-65 "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," as in previous years, present, emphasize, and _ illustrate specific character and personality traits necessary in the foundation of a full Christian life. For example, the 1964-65 messages discuss such important personal qualities and attitudes as obedience, thankfulness, unselfish service, resistance to temptation, the pitfalls and dangers involved in attempting to judge others, the importance of developing our own God-given talents, together with such fundamental truths as the fact that all men will be judged by their own works and that we must seek and understand the work of the Lord as the source of all truth. More specifically, the great principle of obedience is discussed in relation to the fact that all blessings from the Lord are based upon strict adherence to his laws and requirements. Moreover, when we follow the Lord's instructions he is bound to bestow upon us the blessings associated with this obedience. The important human attitude of thankfulness is discussed in relation to the effect it has in enlarging and glorifying the personality. In presenting the divine principle of unselfish service to others, emphasis is placed on the fact that joy and happiness come to those who are deeply concerned and interested in the welfare, success, and happiness of their neighbors. Each of these messages is developed so as to demonstrate how the application of these living truths can improve our own lives and set the foundation for joyous, purposeful accomplishments. Again this year, these living tive examples designed to clarify the principles being taught and to motivate personal application. The 1964-65 visiting teacher messages and their objectives are as follows: truths are supported with illustraMessage 57 — ''Leave Judgment Alone With Me, for It Is Mine and | Will Repay' (D&C 82:23). Objective: To emphasize the importance to us of conscientiously and consistently avoiding the temptation to judge others. Message 58 — ''And He Who Receiveth All Things With Thankfulness Shall Be Made Glorious..."" (D&C 78:19). Objective: To emphasize the fact that thankfulness enlarges and glorifies the personality and radiates a spirit of friendliness. 7? Message 59 —"'Every Man Seeking the Interest of His Neighbor... D&C 82:19). Objective: To deserve the Lord's blessings, and the love of our neighbors, our actions must show genuine interest in and concern for others. Message 60 — **... That Every Man May Improve Upon His Talent, That Every Man May Gain Other Talents, Yea Even an Hundred Fold '' (D&C 82:18). Objective: To illustrate that as we develop the talents with which we have been blessed, our abilities will be magnified and expanded. Message 61 — 'Watch, for the Adversary Spreadeth His Dominions" (D&C 82:5). Objective: To emphasize the fact that Satan is working exceedingly hard to capture men's souls and that we must be eternally on guard. Message 62 — ''For the Word of the Lord Is Truth, and Whatsoever Is Truth Is Light..."" (D&C 84:45). Objective: To explain the nature of truth and to show the importance of searching for it constantly. Message 63 — ''For They Shall Be Judged According to Their Works, and Every Man Shall Receive According to His Own Works." (D&C 76:111). Objective: To be counted worthy and to receive the commendation of the Lord, our lives must be filled with fruitful actions. Message 64 — ''l, the Lord, Am Bound When Ye Do What | Say; But When Ye Do Not What | Say, Ye Have No Promise' (D&C 82:10). Objective: To show that only through obedience to the Lord's laws will promised blessings come. Discussion 4: Home — A Haven of Happiness Objective: To discuss the tremendous import of the state of the home on the happiness of the family. Discussion 5: Using One's Resources to Find Happiness Objective: To appraise ways one can use those things she already possesses to further the happiness of her family and herself. Discussion 6: The Happiness That Comes From Work Objective: To observe the effect of work on one's happiness. Discussion 7: Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness (Part 1) Objective: To discuss the need for improving one's own power of expression as an asset to happiness. Discussion 8: Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness (Part 1) Objective: To point up the great need among family members and friends to understand each other through good communication. LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature — Textbook: Out of the Best Books: An Anthology of Literature. Part I: The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah Preview of Lessons for 1964-65 Dr. Bruce B. Clark F or the first time in its history the Relief Society organization is publishing its own textbook for use in the literature program for the two years ahead. As indicated above, the general title of the work is Out of the Best Books: An Anthology of Literature. Part I, just published, and intended for two years' use during 1964-65 and 1965-66, is sub-titled The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature. Parts II and III, now in preparation, are intended for use in subsequent years. The authors are Bruce B. Clark, Professor of English and Chairman of the English 472 Department at Brigham Young University, and Robert K. Thomas, Associate Professor of English and Director of the Honors Program at Brigham Young University. The principal idea behind the new book and the new literature program related to it is that the best way to study literature is to read it — that the work of literature itself is more important than anything that can be said about it or its author. Therefore, rather than emphasize historical and biographical matters, the new approach will emphasize the selections of literature themselves, often devoting a full lesson to just one or two short stories or poems. It would be desirable and beneficial to the Relief Society sisters if they would obtain copies of the new text and come to meetings prepared to discuss poems, stories, etc., contained therein. Fairly extensive comments on the selections are printed in the text, but these pertain principally to critical analysis and interpretation rather than to historical or biographical background. They are meant to supplement rather than substitute for a reading of the works themselves. Literature is vivid and exciting and provocative and inspiring — but only when it is read. And it should be read not only by the literature leaders but also by all of the Relief Society sisters. The selections in the new book — and therefore the lessons also —are arranged by theme (subject matter) rather than by time or country. In the past, several years have been spent on English literature, including two years on Shakespeare, and several years on American literature. Now the selections will be drawn from world literature — some modern and some ancient, some from one language and some from another, some of one type and some of another. Experience persuades us that the best story or poem for group discussion is one that focuses on some psychological, philLESSON DEPARTMENT osophical, or ethical question, yielding insight into human values, ideals, truths, problems, and frustrations. The new book contains selections rich in such insights, and these insights are emphasized in the textual analysis of the works. Three standards have _ controlled the selection of each poem or story included in the new text: (1) that it be literature of high quality; (2) that it explore subject matter and convey a message of value to the women of the Church and their families; (3) that it be written in such a way as to be understandable and meaningful to the readers for whom it is intended. This third point presents a special problem because the Relief Society membership includes women of such varied background. So that the book can be as useful and meaningful as possible, each section contains some relatively difficult selections and some relatively easy ones. Comments in the lessons in the will suggest ways of using these selections for different groups. Also, the book contains in each section a number of "extra" selections, intended to supplement and enrich the lesson material itself and to provide reading material for use in the homes of the Relief Society sisters. The lesson titles and objectives for 1964-65 are as follows: Lesson 1 — The Appreciation and Criticism of Literature Objective: To develop the insight into literature which comes from an understanding of the principles of literary criticism. Lesson 2 — Literature ''Tasted... Swallowed... Digested"' Objective: To experience the variety and depth of literary insight. Lesson 3 — Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part | Objective: To show how spiritual values and faith in God and man have been expressed through poetry. Lesson 4 — Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part Il Objective: To show further how spiritual values and faith in God and man have been expressed through poetry. Lesson 5 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part | Objective: To demonstrate how literature dramatizes the evil of worldly materialism and affirms higher values. Lesson 6 — Exploring. Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part Il Objective: To demonstrate how literature dramatizes the evil of selfishness and affirms the ideal of unselfishness. Lesson 7 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part Ill Objective: To show how literature exposes the waste of act vaeee and hypocrisy and affirms the worth of genuine righteousness and sincerity. Lesson 8 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part IV Objective: To show how literature recognizes the greater difficulty of seeing faults in oneself than of seeing them in other people. Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government Soe Ss Beet ee Sp eyue sec Preview of leszons fai 1964-65