[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: WORLD’S FAIR AND SILK INDUSTRY. | Author: Unknown]

WORLD’S FAIR AND SILK INDUSTRY.

	THE work for the World’s Fair or Columbian
Exposition is going on in the Territory in various
departments, and all sorts of legitimate ways and 
means are being adopted to raise money whereby
to forward the work of collections and exhibits.
There are many articles in process of construction
and it will not be very long until the women will
be able to report positively on some of the work.
Of one fact we feel assured that no other State or
Territory has made the showing in silk culture
and home manufacture of silk, that has been made
here and almost without capital; simply by the
active energy and enterprise of those who have
not only believed in home industries practically,
but have been willing to go to, and do with all
their might, by the exercise of brain and will-
power as well as their hands, whatever was pos-
sible to forward this laudable industry. A small
beginning certainly, and the results sometimes
discouraging, but when one goes over the whole
ground as we have been doing lately and estimates
the full amount of mulberry trees raised, of eggs,
worms and cocoons; of spinning, weaving, dyeing,
twisting, reeling, and manufacturing into articles,
such as sewing-silk, flosses, embroidery silks,
ribbons, laces, vails, handkerchiefs, dress-goods,
fringes, etc. It is quite a history of work,and has
been done with but very little machinery and
most of that of rude home construction.
The greater part of the work has been done by
women and children in all parts of the Territory,
and much credit is due Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
not only for encouraging this industry, but she
has traveled and worked more for it, we really
believe, than any other person. When Brigham
Young laid out his mulberry farm south of the
City (now Forestdale) and built there Mrs. Zina
Young -went down and took charge of the
cocooneries remaining (there one year until
there was a fairly good start of the enterprise.
She has been the pioneer worker in the silk all
the way through, and deserves the credit. She
was the President of the Deseret Silk Association
organized in 1875, the society having auxiliaries
in every county and nearly every town and
ward in Utah. Most of the people here know of
the great exertions made to raise cocoons and
make a success of this industry, but it languished
for lack of means, which ought to have been
forthcoming from those who had abundance to
have made it profitable and would thus have elderly
women, who could by this means have been self-
supporting when not able to do more laborious
work.
	The Legislature of Utah appropriated
fifteen hundred dollars to buy machinery but
through some mistake of the purchasers it did
not prove of the practical value expected. The
Relief Society has also given means, and
individuals as well have subscribed stock, but
because perhaps of gold and other mines yield-
ing wealth sooner, it has not been sustained in
the last few years as it was previously. Brigham
Young had the utmost faith in it and made the
very first start, sending into foreign countries for
the best seed to produce trees for the food of the
worms, as early in 1856. 
	Women and men have been emigrated from
foreign lands who were skilled in the employment
in various parts of the work thousands of dol-

[Column 2]
lars have been thus laid out, Father Graves of
Provo did more than any other man to further this
important home-industry. The WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT in its volumes contains the record of this
work with many interesting details. Now it is
hoped a new impetus will be given that will en-
rich the Territory and be more advantagous,
than many schemes that are receiving much at-
tention from capitalists and men and women who
are desirous of developing the country. Brigham
Young in his first sermon preached on the Temple
Block said, “The elements are full of silk” and
he was right, for it has been successfully proved,
as to the quality of the raw material. In the
centennial year, 1876 the display of our home
silk, in the Constitution Building attracted great
admiration from tourists and persons crossing the 
continent, who called to see what the people a
thousand miles from civilization had to show as
products of their industry and skill.
	In September 1880 when President Hayes with
wife and party visited the West, while here Mrs.
Hayes was presented from some ladies as a
souvenir of her visit with an elegant lace fichu,
which had been greatly admired by ladies who
had traveled in foreign lands where the most
elaborate and beautiful lace work is on exhibition
in public places.
	Of this fichu the cocoons were raised by Mrs.
Scheneter of this City (German) the silk prepared-
here and the lace weaving done by Mrs. Ursen-
bach formerly of the Jersey Isles. Our  limited
space prevents our saying more now but there is
much more might be written with all propriety
about what the women of this Territory have
done for silk culture.
	The silk portieres that the women of this Ter-
ritory are having made for the Woman’s Building
will be an elegant and appropriate gift. Made of
silk raised and prepared in skeins eleven or twelve
years ago by women for their own personal use,and'
designed and embroidered by our own artists,
these portieres will be effective in representing
our efforts in this direction.


