
GUIDE  LESSONS  FOR  SEPTEMBER  381 
been  ill  for  some  time,  was  sure  that  she  would  not  recover,  and 
so  wanted  to  place  her  eight-year-old  boy  in  a  good  home,  so 
that  she  would  have  no  further  worry  about  his  future.  After 
some  study  and  interpretation  and  treatment,  the  child  was  kept 
with  the  mother,  but  only  after  certain  handicaps  had  been 
removed  and  certain  possibilities  for  adjustment  had  been  created. 
The  handicaps  to  be  removed  were  the  mother's  ill  health,  her 
discouragement,  and  her  strong  conviction  that  her  plan  was  her 
only  recourse.  The  assets  in  the  situation  on  which  the  treatment 
was  based,  were  the  assurance,  given  by  the  physician,  after  an  ex- 
amination, that  the  mother's  health  could  be  restored,  her  willing- 
ness to  be  guided  by  what  would  be  best  for  the  child,  and  her 
strong  desire  to  have  him  with  her.  So  her  consent  was  finally 
gained  to  have  the  boy  placed  temporarily,  instead  of  permanently, 
and  with  renewed  hope  she  submitted  herself  to  medical  treatment 
which  resulted  in  a  gradual  recovery  of  health  and  courage,  and 
later  in  her  economic  independence. 
Questions  and  Problems^ 
1.  Explain  in  some  detail  the  three    processes   used    in    solving   a 
social  problem. 
2.  Why  is  treatment  the  final  test?     Why  is  it  often  discouraging? 
3.  Why   is   the   treatment  of   a  juvenile   offender   likely   to  be   more 
successful  than  the  treatment  of  an  older  offender? 
4.  Why  is  an  understanding  of  the  mental  and  physical  and  emotional 
make-up  of  a  person  necessary,  when  treatment  is  being  planned  for  him? 
5.  Show  how  the  plan  in  the  incident  might  have  failed,  if  the  person 
interested  in  the  mother  had  not  been  skillful  in  changing  mental  attitudes. 
Teachers'  Topic  for  September 
(Third  Week  in  September) 
Household  Arts 
"She  looketh  well  to  the  ways  of  her  household  and  eateth  not 
the  bread  of  idleness. 
"Her  children  arise  and  call  her  blessed,  her  husband  also; 
and  he  praiseth  her."    Proverbs,  31 :27,  28. 
1.  Discuss  the  exchange  of  ideas  in  regard  to  fine  needlework, 
crocheting,  knitting,  netting,  lace-making,  etc. 
2.  Preserving  and  canning  fruits,  meats  and  vegetables. 
3.  The  advantage  of  displaying  work  at  state  and  county  fairs.
