Your Child Is an Individual | Celia Luce teacher lined the children Aw on the playground for a race. "Ready, set, go!" and they were off. "Now," said the teacher at the end of the race, "did you all finish the race at the same time?" "Of course not." "Larry, here, came in first," went on the teacher. "Does that mean that Larry is any better person than ~ Tommy who was near the last? 'Tommy was running as hard as he could and ran a fine race, but he couldn't catch Larry. But Tommy can play baseball better than Larry. Shall we judge the boys in our class by how fast they run or how well they play baseball?" "Foolish, isn't it? But no more foolish than trying to judge the students in this class by how well they read or how well they do their arithmetic. Each of you should be judged by how hard you are working and how much you are improv- _ing, rather than by how you compare with others." _ If we parents could only feel this way and work for such an understanding! Each parent, naturally, would like to be able to say to himself, "See what a wonderful child I have! He is the brightest one in his class." However, usually if a child doesn't progress rapidly in his school studies, the parent's pride is hurt, and the child is made 'to feel that he has, somehow, failed his parents. He may be doing the very best he can, but he has failed anyhow. He is up against Page 584 something too big for him, and so he soon stops trying. He takes on the defeated look common _ to "slow" children. This is unnecessary. Lacking ability to be outstanding in school subjects does not mean that a child is not intelligent. In reading biographies of great men one is surprised to learn how often they did not progress well in school. 'Thomas A. Edison was kept home from school because his teacher reported he was unable to learn anything there. There are many reasons why a brilliant child may be slow in school. Perhaps he has home problems. Often a child from a home where he doesn't feel loved and needed and wanted and secure ' can't think about arithmetic or reading. Or he may feel that effort is useless since no one at home really cares. Bad health can effectively slow a child down. Poor school work is often a danger signal showing the need for a thorough physical examination. Poor eyesight and hearing also may make a child seem backward. A physical checkup should include a thorough check on eyes and ears. R a child's outstanding abilities may not be in the line of lesson work. And children in school are usually judged only by the kind of intelligence that applies to lesson work. Equally important is mechanical intelligence. Some chil- YOUR CHILD IS AN INDIVIDUAL dren who are slow in school are practically geniuses when it comes to making things and working with engines and tools. These children have just as much of a chance to be successful adults as the child who reads well. They should never be branded as slow, but appreciated and praised instead. Then there is social intelligence, and it does not necessarily go with good school work. A person who gets along well with other people is a successful person. He is liked and often advanced rapidly in jobs. He is a leader. Many teachers realize this situation and would much rather talk over a child's problems with his parents rather than send home a slip of paper that brands a hardworking child as doing unsatisfactory work. *R * 585 The child who is working in school and doing his best deserves the satisfaction of a job well done. He should receive praise from his teacher and parents no matter how he compares with others. No parent would deny a child food and stunt him physically, yet many well-meaning parents will stunt a child's personality by insisting that he is a failure in life because he can't be a superior student no matter how hard he tries. Every person on earth has the need to feel important, to feel satisfaction within himself, to feel worthwhile and needed. A sense of failure makes a person stop trying, in fact, makes him almost unable to try. Let us then, as parents, make the most of a child's good points, appreciate him for what he is, and free him to do his best. * i Gn Liew of Brush Alice Whitson Norton If I possessed the gift to draw, I'd paint a garden place All hedged around with hollyhocks And dainty Queen Anne's lace. And sure I'd paint a weathered church, With graceful rising spire; And woods wrapped in a flaming coat Of autumn's vivid fire. But since I cannot use a brush For painting even birds, I'll strive to make my pictures clear Through gracious, shining words. ~~ a Bo Sure to Vote on Vovervber 4th! I