[Vol27 | September 1940 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Secretary-Treasurer]
Another branch, which had worked under great difficulty, was the first to sell its quilt at the Hui Tau; this made the sisters very happy.
"The Relief Society Magazine is being appreciated by these women more and more. We are gradually convincing them of the wonderful help it can give them. In one branch, I was told they have an evening study class with their husbands and use the Magazine for their study material. One sister told me that
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
her husband, who is branch president, uses the Magazine for much of his preaching material. One of the husbands, who is a music director, gets many valuable helps from the music department.
"Just now the feeling of patriotism is strong, and the sisters are offering their services, under the name of Relief Society, to help in any way they can. I have suggested that they use part of their Work-and-Business Day and some of their evenings sewing for the soldiers. They are all enthusiastic, and I am sure that the country of New Zealand will know that there is a charitable organization in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that responds to every call, no matter what creed or color, where human life is concerned."
Samples of hand-made articles exhibited at the recent Hui Tau are
629
on display in the Church Museum Building, Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah: four types of baskets, a small Maori mat, and a taniko. The picture of these accompany this article. The coarse basket is the kind used to carry kumeras and potatoes. Flax grows in abundance in New Zealand. The women prepare it themselves and make their own dyes out of clay and barks?a very long and tedious process. They make very beautiful mats, which are spread on the floor to sleep on. The taniko work is used for belts, head bands, purses, and for decorating costumes. Sister Cowley is to be commended for her zeal in preserving the art crafts of the Maori sisters and at the same time training the women in the European skills. Sister Cowley says, "I am very pleased with the work of the women.
MAORI BASKETS AND TANIKO BELT (Now on display in Church Museum Building, Temple Square, Salt Lake City)
FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY IN JAPANESE MISSION, HAWAII (Seated, third from left, is Hazel M. Robertson, mission Relief Society president)
They are not as fortunate as the women in Zion, who have everything to work with and plenty of skilled instructors, but they are trying hard and respond willingly to requests made of them."
Japanese Mission
HAZEL M. ROBERTSON, Relief Society president of the Japanese Mission, sent the accompanying picture of the newly organized Relief Society in this mission. She wrote on July 27, 1940, as follows:
"I am very happy to report that we now have a Relief Society in the Japanese Mission with a membership of eighteen women. As you perhaps know, the Japanese Mission in the Hawaiian Islands was organized only three and one-half years ago, and all our efforts were turned first to building fine Sunday Schools, Primaries, and M. I. A. Organizations, in order to touch the parents through the children. Our Relief Society has been last but not least in our hearts, as we realize what it will mean in the Japanese home.
"Our mission is now organized on four of the islands, and we hope to soon have a Relief Society on each. We are carrying out the lessons as outlined and find them interesting. Especially are the members interested in the theology, handicraft, and lessons on the home and children.
"The Japanese women are very devoted to their homes and families, and the beautiful lessons outlined by the General Board will help them to carry out their ideals in the home."
Northwestern States Mission (Portland, Oregon)
ANN PARKINSON NIBLEY, president of Relief Society in the Northwestern States Mission, wrote on March 17, 1940, a report of progress of Relief Society work in the Northwest, from which the following excerpts are quoted:
"It has been my pleasure to visit many branch organizations and to
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
hold meetings with all six Relief Society district boards the last few months. I find the branch members anxious to cooperate in every way, and they are doing splendid work. They are holding regular board meetings, traveling many miles to visit branch organizations, holding conferences, and union meetings. These district boards are most assuredly strengthening the branch organizations, which now number sixty-two, with a Relief Society membership of over 1300. Some forty-two of these Societies have been organized within the last two and one-half years.
"Two hundred of our members were gained in last year's membership drive, and 311 were gained in this year's drive, making our total over 1300 members, the same number as were in our mission before Portland and Seattle Stakes were organized from parts of the mission.
"We are directly supervising fifteen Societies, including Anchorage and Fairbanks in Alaska. These organizations are too far removed from district centers to attend union meetings or conferences or to be visited by board members. Our branch officers seem very loyal and are cooperating and supporting the district board members, many of these sisters traveling as far as 150 miles or more each way to attend conferences and union meetings.
"In our mission Magazine drive, more of our branches went over the top this year than in any previous year, six Societies gaining from 108 percent to 200 percent. We also had a mission essay contest this year in connection with the membership drive which met with splendid success. Awards were given to the sisters sending in the two best essays,
631
and to membership coordinators and Magazine representatives gaining special recognition in their departments."
Following are interesting items taken from a letter to Sister Nibley from May Oldroyd, Relief Society president of Fairbanks, Alaska:
"I think you will be interested to learn that we have increased our membership from five to eleven members. We hold our meetings every Tuesday afternoon. Four of us live from five to seven miles from Fairbanks, so it is always dark when we return from our meetings, our daylight hours during November, December and January being from three to five hours long. Because of having so few members and being so far apart, we thought best to take only two divisions of the work outlined. We chose theology and literature lessons with a roll-call report of the reading of other outlined lessons, and an occasional work-and-business meeting. This seems very satisfactory, and it is seldom we have a member absent. Our class leaders are efficient, and we have some very interesting meetings.
"Our Church has been asked to broadcast every fifth Sunday over radio station KFAR for a half hour religious service. It is both a thrill and an opportunity for us. Our branch has conducted two successful programs, and we hope to be able to continue these broadcasts.
"It is surprising how many people are becoming interested in our religion. It seems hardly possible that less than two years ago we were only three small families not even organized into a branch. Now we have from thirty to forty persons attending Sunday School each Sunday.
632
"The branch has rented a hall in which we hold Sunday School, but our Relief Society is not included in this, so we must meet with any lady who will open her home to us. This is a disadvantage, as we do not feel at liberty to advertise and invite others to meet with us in private homes, and eleven or twelve women are all one can entertain in most Alaskan living rooms. We feel like singing continually 'give us room that we may dwell.'"
North Central States Mission (Minneapolis, Minn.)
ALMA M. BROADBENT, Relief Society president of North Central States Mission, submitted the following report:
"For the first time in the history of our mission, we were honored with a visit from one of the General Presidents of the Relief Society, President Amy Brown Lyman.
"On June 18, a reception and luncheon were given in her honor in the Minneapolis chapel, at which members of the local Relief Societies of St. Paul, Minneapolis, Brainerd, Princeton, and Monticello had the privilege of greeting her personally. Flowers in blue and gold (our Relief Society colors) were used as decorations. At the luncheon which followed the reception, the place cards were small envelopes containing a picture of President Lyman. A feature of the luncheon was 'A Hundred Thousand Strong', rendered as a trumpet solo by Wilma Thorup. The program which followed included a musical number by members of the St. Paul Singing Mothers, and a number by the Minneapolis Singing Mothers. Short reports were given by the various Relief Society presi-
 
dents, after which Sister Lyman gave an inspiring address. She spoke appreciatively of the work done in the missions, encouraging the sisters in their work and emphasizing the importance of spirituality, kindness, consideration, and loyalty to each other. She encouraged them to live close to our Heavenly Father and to do their best; in her very words, 'Give the best that is in you. Be the best of whatever you are.' As a closing number, the song, 'A Hundred Thousand Strong', was sung by the entire group.
"Elder Richard R. Lyman, of the Council of the Twelve, and President Amy Brown Lyman also attended inspiring conferences at Duluth, Minnesota, and at Winnipeg, Canada. Following the meeting at Duluth, a dinner was served by the Relief Society members for Elder and Sister Lyman, President and Sister Broadbent, for the mission secretary, W. Ashby Robison, and the missionaries."
Argentine Mission
LORRAINE S. WILLIAMS, president of Relief Society in the Argentine Mission, wrote on June 14, 1940, of activities in this mission as follows:
"Our sisters had no opportunity to study music before being contacted by the elders. But in spite of this, we organized a group of Singing Mothers who furnished the music for our two semi-annual conferences in 1939; they had joy in singing.
"We held a Mothers' and Daughters' banquet the 18th of November, at which there were 127 mothers and daughters in attendance. The food was prepared by the mothers, the tables and decorations by the daugh-
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
ters. The elders served the banquet so that every sister could be seated. A program and toasts were given during the meal.
"All of our Relief Societies hold branch conferences, with the presidents conducting. The Rosario Branch compiled and published a cook book and are selling it throughout the mission. It was an interesting project as well as a means of adding to their funds.
"We feel that the Relief Society organization is truly a blessing to the women of the Argentine. It is a
633
source of development and enrichment of life to them.
"I should like to express my own appreciation for the Magazine. It is truly a friend and a guiding hand always.
"We are trying to store food and clothing for future use. Prices are raising every day, and most of our Saints have but a meager living at best. There are no adequate facilities for bottling or canning foods. These people eat entirely different from us; spaghetti, macaroni, meat, yerba mate and bread comprise the largest part of their diet."
