Relief Society Bulletin Volume 1 September, 1914. Number 9 Issued by the Officers and Directors of the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 1914 HUMAN SERVICE has come to be a consideration of political parties, or social organizations, and of educational institutions. THE RELIEF SOCIETY has been an instrument of human service for more than half a century. It ministers to the immediate material wants of the community. It has been pronounced by many students an Institution for community charity. THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE at Logan aims in a very definite way to make each member of society a more capable producer, a better farmer, housewife, tradesman, agricultural engineer, or business man and thus aims to eliminate want. Its field of work therefore, properly co-operates with the work of relief societies in serving the men and women of the State. While Its courses are distinctly practical, it deals in a broad and fundamental way with the basic industries of the State. Liberal instruction is given in the natural and physical sciences, in mathematics, history, English, economics, literature and languages. The College has been slowly built into an embodiment of the State's idealism. Willes-Horne Drug Company News Building, Salt Lake City. Our Drug Store Is Complete TREATMENT PERFECT. PRICES RIGHT. WE SOLICIT YOUR PATRONAGE. Prompt Attention to Mail Orders, Lambourne Floral Dept. EVERYTHING FLORAL. DECORATIONS. FUNERAL WORK. Etc., Etc. THE L.D.S HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES has an average enrollment of about 100 Nurses in training. The hospital has capacity of 250 beds. The training school is under the direction and supervision of highly trained graduate nurses from schools of national reputation. It gives a three years course in training in nursing in all its branches. For further particulars address the Superintendent of Nurses Dr. W.H. GROVES LATTER-DAY SAINTS HOSPITAL, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 
INDEX TO LESSON STATEMENTS

Title Page Number:

The Grain Question 1
Editorial War 3
Great American Marine Painters 5
Heirship 8
Home Ethics 10
Home Gardening 13
Literature 15
Relief Society Nurse School 18

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY

Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist.

1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah.
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City.
3. WHITE SEWING MACHINE CO., 29 W. First South St. Phone Was. 5234, Salt Lake City.
4. L. C. SMITH & BROS., Typewriter, 379½ So. Main St., Salt Lake City.
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., UNDERTAKERS, 251-259 E. First South St., Salt Lake City.
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City.
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City.
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St. Salt Lake City.
9. L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL for NURSES, Salt Lake City.
10. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City.
11. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City.
12. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City.
13. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main St., Salt Lake City.
14. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City.
15. MORRISON BAKING CO., 158 So. Main St., Salt Lake City.
16. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City.
17. McONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main St., Salt Lake City.
18. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City.
19. JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake.
20. MARION BANKS, Millinery, and Charlton's Suit & Cloak Co., 321 So. Main, Salt Lake.

ADVERTISEMENT: L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER

Ball Bearings Give Greater Speed and Stability to the L. C. Smith & Bros. Typewriter
Ball Bearing, Long Wearing

Because of ball bearing typebars, the keys respond as readily as perfect piano keys. The capital shift works with equal ease—no lifting of a heavy carriage but simply shifting the light typebar segment, thus insuring absolute accuracy.

Another advantage—this machine is complete in itself for all kinds of work: tabulating, billing, large envelopes, cards or paper as narrow as a postage stamp.

WRITE FOR CATALOGUE To L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER CO.
379 SO. MAIN STREET
Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENT: S. M. TAYLOR & CO.

Established 1860 Incorporated 1908

S. M. TAYLOR & CO.
UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS
Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR
The Pioneer Undertaker of the West

53 years in one location
251-253-255-257 East First South St.
Salt Lake City, Utah

MODERN METHODS
COMPLETE EQUIPMENT
EFFICIENT SERVICE

ADVERTISEMENT: L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE

A SUCCESSFUL COLLEGE GROWS

In one year our increase has been forty per cent.

L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

Day Sessions: seven dollars a month
Night Sessions: four dollars a month
RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ORGAN OF THB WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHDRCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Vol. 1. September, 1914. No. 9 Editor Mrs. Susa Young Gates Business Manager Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Advisory Committee Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Mrs. Julina L. Smith Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley Publishers and Proprietors General Board of the Relief Society Office Room 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City One Dollar a Year Ten Cents a Copy Entered as second-class matter on February 18, 1014, at the Post Office at Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. 

THE GRAIN QUESTION. Just after the October conference, in 1876, President Young sent for me to come to his office and instructed me to write an editorial urging the sisters to begin laying up grain against a day of need. I felt very timid about giving this important advice, and went to Sister Eliza R. Snow, but she said: "Yoa have been called to do this and it is for you to comply." I then went to President Daniel H. Wells, who gave me the same answer that Sister Eliza had given and then 1 wrote the article and submitted it to President Young for approval. He was satisfied with it, but dictated another paragraph, which contained advice to the brethren to assist the sisters in this new enterprise. This was the first advice ever given to women to commence the storing of grain for a time of need. President Young said: "I have called upon and urged the brethren to lay up grain against a day of want, and they do not follow my advice they excuse themselves by saying their wives and daughters want the proceeds of the grain to buy hats and bonnets," etc. In fact, he gave me quite a dissertation on the excuses made by the brethren, and then explained that if the sisters were told to save grain they would not sell it. Ever since that time our sisters have continued this work to save grain, and some wonderful experiences have been realized along these lines. In all these years we have not had much need to use the grain stored away for the purpose it was designed, but with the dark cloud hovering over the world as it now does, we can 2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. see the prophetic wisdom of President Young in calling upon the sisters to save grain against a time of need. All Europe and practically the eastern continent are involved in this conflict of war, and there seems little prospect of matters being adjusted at present for permanent peace. The efforts made during the last few years to establish peace among nations and peoples seem particularly significant of the disturbances soon to come which would enhance the value of peace. When the world's greatest advocates for the reign of peace met at The Hague we might have understood (if we did not)  that war was about to come upon the people, and now behold, it is almost at our own door, and, significantly enough, is raging with the greatest fury in Belgium itself. From the first prophetic advice given us by President Brigham Young, we have been doing more or less as the years went by, and have kept on urging the sisters to do what they could in storing grain against a day of need. Heber C. Kimball, who was very prophetic in his preaching and teaching uttered many predictions warning the people against a day of scarcity and famine at one time he said the day would come: when a barrel of flour would be worth a barrel of gold. Some who are not in hearty sympathy with our wheat gathering policy are fond of telling us that it is very little we have done thus far compared with what would be needed if famine really came. But who knows how that little might be increased to a great deal should occasion require it! Miracles have been wrought in this Church and may be again, according to our faith. At all events, let us do all that is possible to increase our measures of grain this incoming harvest, and trust the Heavenly Father to aid and assist us in our undertakings in this direction. This may be the beginning of the very war that the Prophet Joseph Smith prophesied would cover the earth, when there would be no peace found anywhere, and people would flee to Zion in the mountains for safety there would be such confusion and difficulties that people would be glad to come to escape from the dangers of all kinds that threaten the world. Already there has been war in Mexico that has caused our people to flee to the United States. We cannot be too prudent in saving grain, and in fact everything that can be kept, that would supply want. Beans, for instance, are' capable of being kept an indefinite length of time. It used to be that when men went to sea on long voyages for six or seven years, beans were the staple article they carried with them. I feel that we as the women of Zion cannot too strongly urge the necessity of being prepared to assist others and take care of those who may come to us for relief and assistance in  RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 3 the days of trouble that seem now to be drawing near, and are seen through the dark shadows that are threatening famine which nearly always follows when great wars prevail. Wu must be on the alert to assist in every possible way and by all the means in our power, not only materially, but by our faith and prayers, to give relief in every way possible, as the name of our society implies. EMMELINE B. WELLS. EDITORIAL. WAR! WAR! AND WHY WAR? The very air about us today is surcharged with war and rumors of war. The writer of this little article was present in Rome three months ago and was appointed by Mrs. Kate Walter Barrett to act as proxy for the United 'States delegate, Mrs. Lucia Ames Mead, on the powerful and active International Peace Committee. There sat in the elegant parlor of the leading hotel representatives from twenty nations, women of every civilized speech, and all were inspired only with the one thought peace how to bring about peace how to continue peace, and! ! how to educate children with the ideals of peace, so that war would be impossible on this earth! This was the theme of that long day's meeting. Hours were spent in giving reports of the work already done by this great body of peace women, and other hours were consumed in suggesting and acting upon future plans and activities. This committee proposed to the International Executive Body that a cable should be sent to President Wilson, urging him to consider the claims of peace in dealing with the turbulent nation of Mexico, and it was seconded by the whole council with a rising vote. Above all topics, the helplessness of the women, who are and who may be concerned in this struggle, was laid before the President of the United States, Mobile the same thought was emphasized in many sessions of the council. War in the last days was predicted by the Savior, and his  words are repeated for us by three of his disciples Matthew, Mark and Luke. There was to be "wars and rumors of wars." The Prophet Joseph foresaw this condition and portrayed it plainly. But the hearts of women, looking upon their sons and their son's sons, have sunk in their bosoms, and they have sought to avert the dread time when this war should be poured out on every nation. 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. What is war? General Sherman said, "War is hell." And that brief description fits the condition as no other could do. War is madness. Have you ever considered the condition of a man, a group of men, or a nation so filled with the spirit of anger and fury that they lose all control of their reason and become actually mad? There is an old Greek saying, that "Whomsoever the gods would destroy they first make mad." And this terrible condition is as much to be deplored in a man as in a group of men, or in a nation. For men are veritably mad when the spirit of blood-lust is upon them. We hear occasionally of the "psychology of the mob," and the dread dangers that attend such a body of men. What one man will do when he is so furiously angry that he becomes really "mad" is exactly what the group of men will do, moved by the same spirit, while the effect of that madness is multiplied by the number of madmen who comprise that group. Were it not that some sane person or persons give such a crowd of infuriated human beasts a check, there might be no end to their fierce destruction. Consider the Nephites in their final dissolution around the hill Cumorah. The wife of the man who owned the hill some years ago, a Mrs. Sampson, told the writer that bushel baskets of arrow heads were dug up in and around the hill. A gruesome testimony to the truth of the Book of Mormon, and also to the fierce blood-lust which finally destroyed the Nephite nation. Men nowadays discuss this quality of the spirit that sometimes takes hold of groups of men, and suggest ways of utilizing it in such places as theatres and other public assemblies to achieve success for their jubilee enterprises. A man may be quite normal and peaceable in his whole habit of life, but put such a man in the midst of a crowd who are wildly clamoring about any one subject that influences and attracts men, and he is almost sure to be caught up by that spirit and at once he becomes a part of "the mob." He may repent of his silliness or his wickedness afterwards, but while he is a part of that seething mass of humanity, called "a mob;" when they are vitally moved or excited on any one subject, if his own mind be at all receptive, he is is sure to be swept off his feet and become a madman with the rest. So with nations. What this war in Europe may terminate in is, as the old Greeks said, "on the knees of the gods." Rather, let us say, the results are hidden in the bosom of eternity. And yet, how helpless women feel in the face of such world-harrowing calamities. We may have a child a son   preaching the gospel or a daughter studying music out.in  that vortex of war excitement now in the nations of Europe. Our heart contracts, and we mothers know at once how the RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 6 mothers of those Servian, German, French and English soldiers feel at even the suggestion of war. Men may fight ana kill, but women must suffer and weep. What shall we do, we women of the chosen people of God? I know what you will say   pray pray to the God of battles  that he will stay their hands yet a little while. That our son, our daughter, may reach our home in safety and peace. And what of the Servian's son and daughter? Ah. women of the Church of Jesus Christ, let us pray for so many men and  women in the world have not learned how to pray that the God of peace will do what he has to do quickly, and bring his stubborn sons to their knees in every nation and amongst every kindred, tongue and people.  We can pray and wait and  trust. That is the mission of woman. GREAT AMERICAN MARINE PAINTERS. Winslow Homer and Charles H. Woodbury, both New England artists, are foremost among the few marine painters of note in America. Woodbury is still alive. One of his great marines may be seen in the beautiful art room of the University of Utah. This picture is a part of the Alice Art Collection, and was bought through the efforts of Edwin Evans, a fellow artist with Woodbury in the Julian studio in Paris. Homer died in his seventy-fifth year, in 1910. Winslow Homer. "Talent!" said Homer, "there's no such thing as talent. What they call talent is nothing but capacity for doing continuous hard work in the right way." Homer detested hypocrisy and pretense, and preferred as associates his own kin, and the simple fishing people of the neighborhood. He was conscious of his own powers, and therefore paid no attention to criticism, ill or good; he had no desire to please the public. He gave his whole life to art. Homer first saw the light of day in Boston, and entered his long apprenticeship to art there in a lithographing establishment, but at the age of 23 we find him seeking a greater art center, New York, and in April, 1858, Harpers' published his first drawing a street scene with thirty figures in the composition. He was immediately offered a position in Harpers' establishment, but says, "from the time I took my nose off that lithographic stone, I have had no one I would call master, and never shall." He took a private studio in New York, and was RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. able to support himself with his "black and white" work. He got an appointment from the Harpers as artist-correspondent at the seat of the Civil War, going first to make sketches of Lincoln's inauguration, March, 1859, and then to the front with the first troop of volunteers. He departed from all precedent. Unlike the world-famed pictures at the Palaces of Versailes, and at the galleries in all of Europe, which were painted in the studio and depict the gallant commander, his sword high in air, leading the armed hosts to battle,  an unknown thing in  any real battle, Homer made drawings from actual life and on the spot. "Thanksgiving in Camp of 1862," "Pay Day in the Army of the Potomac of 1863," "Soldiers Playing Football. 1865." "The Newspaper Train," "Wounded," "Home from  the War," each wrought a personal touch that electrified readers of war news at home. His first paintings in oil, "The Last Goose at Yorktown," and "Home Sweet Home," were admitted at the National Academy, 1863. "Prisoners from the Front" followed and went over the water to the Paris International Exposition. Homer's candor and truthfulness won friends abroad for the brave young artist. John La Farge, another great American artist, on his deathbed said of "Prisoners at the Front:" "Homer made a marvelous painting, marvelous in every way, ' especially in the grasp of the moment. Homer next returned to Old Virginia, where he painted negro subjects, thereby adding to his fame. In 1880, he began to feel the lure of the sea, and abandoned the illustrated press, believing there was a greater field in oils and water color. Now began a series of paintings in which pattern became a potent influence to guide his brush. These pictures are filled with wonderful designs in line and mass, which carried his work far ahead of What it had been. He crossed and recrossed the ocean, studying the North Sea coast at Tynemouth-on-Tyne, and there painted a wonderful group of sea pictures. Sailors and fishing folk were often painted into these mystic pictures of the sea. His greatest works, however, were painted from American subjects. These he found in the Bahamas, Cuba and at Key West, Florida. But the most wonderful of all are his pictures of the rock-bound sea coast of Maine, painted from the windows of his own studio. In those pictures you are made to feel the power, the weight, and the thrust of the Atlantic billow. The year following Homer's death, two memorial exhibitions were given for him in America Boston and New York viewing with each other in doing honor to this great painter. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 7 Charles Woodbury. Charles H. Woodbury, through his mother, is a relative of the Prophet Joseph Smith, so he told the writer, who visited his studio in the east, and who later received from him a beautiful study of the sea from his own brush. In his studio were boxes and boxes of small color sketches which were very rapidly painted, and which show the great work and dexterity of the artist. Woodbury spends most of his time at sea. There, strapped to the mast, he paints while the seas run high. As an old salt, he never suffers seasickness. Alertness and memory are necessary in a powerful degree to a successful marine painter. He must select his pictures as he watches the waves, for it comes and is gone in a moment. His picture he must paint from memory. He must get his tone from the quick study and keep to that, though for details aside from color he may use dozens of other such studies. It takes years of watchful, alert study and work to prepare a painter to portray the sea. This is one of the reasons there are so few marine painters. Landscapists find difficulty in painting because of the changing lights, but when everything is changing the difficulties are tremendous. Woodbury loves work. He is intensely intellectual, alert, and enthusiastic, high minded, and has a grasp of vision and openness of understanding that act with a velocity akin to lightning. He has a more delicate color-sense than Homer, He is clean in his life, and honest at the foundation, convincing in style. He has won a place among the great American painters, and is always seen in important pictures at the great expositions. Mr. Woodbury has warm friends among the Utah artists, and is planning to stay over in Utah en route to the 1915 California exposition. Note: Two excellent marines by Mary Teasdel may be seen in Devotees and Their Shrines. QUESTIONS. 1. Compare the lives of Homer and Woodbury, and M. M. Young and Lee Greene Richards. 2. What is the main difference in their art field? 3. What preparation is necessary for an artist? 4. Tell something of studio work (Mary Teasdel's Story). 5. Give Rose Hartwell's ideas of what preparation an artist student should make before entering an art school abroad. Reference Book: Devotees and Their Shrines. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. HEIRSHIP. Most of the Latter-day Saints feel that they are sufficiently familiar with the subject of heirship. The ancient customs of Israel, which have been incorporated in the laws of all the civilized nations that of the inheritance of the oldest son seem very simple and easy for all to understand. But it is a curious fact that amongst all of the patriarchs and prophets spoken of in the Bible, or, so far as we know, in the Book of Mormon, not one was the oldest son of the oldest son. In other words, the heir has seldom or never been the oldest son of the oldest sou. Geikie tells us that the mother of Jesus, Mary, was a second wife. Seth, Shem, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, David, Solomon, and so on down the list, as far as we know, all were younger sons. Nephi was not the oldest son, nor did his sons inherit the leadership of his people; but it was the sons of his younger brother, Jacob, who carried down the history of the plates. This, however, does not prove anything except that it seems to be somewhat difficult for the heir to walk in the godly footsteps of his father. The principle of heirship is vital, and we suggest that our sisters take time to become interested in it, with the help of the Bible, and Book of Mormon and, perhaps, they might listen; to a lecture from someone qualified to enter more deeply into this subject. Not the Prophet Joseph, nor his successor, Brigham Young, were the eldest sons. Just now, however, we are obliged to confine ourselves to the point of heirship as it affects genealogical work, in connection with temple ordinances. Heirship in Temple Genealogy has recently become a fixed point. For years the records of families who entered into our temples were constantly subjected to change as to "the heir at whose instance the work was done." Perhaps an example will illustrate this better than any explanation: When the first temple work was done by the Brigham Young family, it was done in St. George by President Brigham Young, and some female members of his family. His name, therefore, appeared at the top of the sheets, as, "The Heir at Whose Instance the Work Is Done." He died shortly after that    1877 and his brother Lorenzo the youngest of the five Young brothers, who were John, Joseph, Brigham, Phineas and  Lorenzo took up the temple work. When Lorenzo assumed charge, he called the Young family together, money was subscribed, and Uncle Lorenzo's son, Franklin, went east to secure genealogical information. Therefore, the sheets bore the names of both Lorenzo Young (when he was present in the Manti Temple), and of his son Franklin W., when Franklin did the RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 9 work. After some years there was an organization effected by some of the Brigham Young daughters, and Apostle Brigham Young was made President, and the temple work was recorded as being done under his heirship. He died, and then it was deemed right to place President Seymour B. Young's name  as the heir, who was the oldest son of Joseph Young Joseph being the second son of Grandfather John Young. In another   few years, the oldest son John M. Young of the eldest son, John, came forward to take part in this work. What was to be done now? The heirship of this family had veered around from pillar to post, from Dan to Beersheba. And the really vital point of it all, so far as genealogy was concerned, was not so much who was the patriarchal heir, but to select the heir, and then never change him, making the heir a fixed point. Relationships are counted from the heir, and when these relationships are constantly changing, confusion is bound to follow. It is not so important to the genealogist of the Young family that John M. Young, or Brigham Young, or Lorenzo Young, or Seymour B. Young, or Franklin W. Young, was the heir, but it is vitally important that whichever shall be named as the Young family heir shall remain unchanged on the temple and family record books forever and a day. Then the Young family genealogist can get the relationships right, and keep them clear, with a straight line running down through centuries of records. This, therefore, is clear The genealogical heir of the family must not be changed. Rule: In temple affairs, for the purpose of establishing uniformity in designating relationships, the genealogical heir of the family is the representative of the family who started the work in a temple this should be the eldest living male of; the family line. Exception: Where a woman has begun the work, having no male members of her family to do this for her, her name should be retained as the heiress. An invariable question which accompanies this lesson is: What shall be done when the rightful heir refuses to do his part? This can be answered in two ways. First Consult the: president of the temple in your district, as to what may be done. Second Form a family organization and appoint a: temple committee, leaving the work in their hands. This latter procedure is usually the wiser, for many obdurate or indifferent men are won over with a little kindness or attention. And if such a one be made president of the organization, he will probably be glad to leave all temple matters in the hands of a proper committee. Do not take up your work with a spirit of resentment in your heart for any member of the family, no matter how dilatory he or she may be. Seek to win over with love and consideration those who are indifferent and stubborn.  10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. Out of this situation grows another genealogical rule: No man has the right to block the way of his family in temple work. If he will not act, other members of his family may be justified in proceeding without his consent, provided they receive permission from the proper authority to do so. Women are sometimes justified in going on with temple work, because their male relatives are too busy, or indifferent, or too engrossed in money-getting to take up this necessary and glorious work. But other things being equal, the righteous woman will use her womanly tact to encourage, persuade and lovingly win her menfolk into activity in this work. If she cannot succeed in this, then she may be justified, by and with the consent of the president of the temple in her district, in leading out as the heiress of her family. But this, only under permission of the proper authorities. Women of proper mind will be glad to shift the heaviest burden of responsibility on to the shoulders of those holding the priesthood. And her joy in the world to come will be in the success which she may have achieved in thus winning her loved ones over to the right. What difference whose the honor? What difference will it make to us who may take the credit, if we have the exquisite privilege of doing the work? If the honor or credit will awaken one spark of true spiritual manliness in the breast of our menfolk, then we should relinquish that trifling honor with a smile and a blessing upon them. Let us close this lesson with the motto of the woman's committee of the Genealogical Society of Utah "We will provoke the brethren to good works, but we will not provoke the brethren while we are thus engaged.", September HOME ETHICS Lesson VIL The Complete Home. The fundamental principle which promotes gentleness, love, and abiding content in the home is consideration for the feelings of others. That principle and the great love prompting their actions cause parents to make the immense sacrifice which they are sometimes called upon to endure for the sake of their children. We believe the training of a child begins in the conduct of its ancestors long before its own birth. That is called heredity. But we know that good parents do everything that lies in their power to give their children strong healthy bodies, good mentality RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 11 and then to impart and to train the religious feelings. It is one of the greatest of misfortunes to the child and one of the greatest omissions on the part of parents not to have religious training from infancy. In childhood faith in Deity is naturally strong and belief in the wisdom and knowledge of parents is unbounded. The impressions made in infancy and childhood are apt to remain forever. No home life can be complete or perfect while there are defective members. And toward the wayward ones there should be exercised enduring patience, abiding faith, and endless love. Those qualities exercised in the home promote tranquility and often work wonders with erring ones. That saying of the Prophet Joseph Smith, "The Glory of God is intelligence," is one of the most frequently quoted of his remarks. That his followers take it literally is evidenced by the church schools which have been established, and also by the great desire to accumulate knowledge which is manifested by Church members generally. To those who have not had the opportunities they desire, it is good to remember that a little knowledge gained every day makes great accumulations in time. Parents have the advantage over their children in the wisdom that comes with the experience of the years. Children in their turn often enjoy educational advantages in the schools, of which their parents were deprived. Each should remember in his daily life and conduct his own advantages and the lesser advantages of the other. Consideration for the feelings of others begets sympathy which enlarges the understanding. There is nothing more beautiful than a home where love for each member prevails, and a determination on the part of each individual to do his duty every day and to attain to the highest within him. That is ideal. But there is sorrow, none the less real because it may be concealed, where a member is deficient. How the instructions of our blessed Savior taught consecration of one's self to the ideal. His golden rule is really the basic idea in ethics. To practice the golden rule and the greatest commandment ofttimes means sacrifice of personal desire, but a spiritual uplift is the result. When we really love, we desire to serve. Our Heavenly Father knew that when he said, "If ye love me. keep my commandments." A teacher in early Utah days, noted for her good instructions, often repeated the axiom to keep her pupils reminded "Good manners spring from the heart." One reason parents so love their children is because of the loving service they give them during the years of helplessness and dependence. Then it is only just to the children themselves 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. that they be taught to render in turn loving service to their parents. The following quotation seems appropriate here "It is: characteristic of human nature that our love for any object is increased by doing loving service for it. If we do not train our children to the loving service to parents, and to each other, we sadly weaken the bonds of family unity. This is doubtless one reason that we often find these bonds strongest, not among the rich, where plenty of servants take away the necessity and often the opportunity of doing kindly deeds to others, but in the home of moderate competence, where loving hands minister to each other's necessities." The Bible in the home should be a strong factor in the training of children. Learning Scripture passages and chapters in childhood is sure to be a comfort in the years to come. Everyone should be able to repeat without mental effort, giving chapter and verse, the Ten Commandments, the Lord's Prayer, the Sermon on the Mount, the Twenty-third Psalm, the Golden Rule, and the greatest commandment also many others, but; particularly those six. The study of the Book of Mormon is fascinating to children when led by a good instructor. The Faith Promoting Series inspires a belief in the happenings of our own times, and what might be our own experience. By letting our minds dwell upon higher things we often are lifted out of our own petty difficulties and attain the habit of cheerfulness and composure. Cheerfulness is often a matter of habit and may be attained by faith in the Divine power, and determination to conquer weakness and besetting sins. "It is easy enough to be cheerful. When life goes by like a song, But the man worth while is the man who can smile When everything goes dead wrong." QUESTIONS. 1. What great principle promotes the qualities so desirable in a home? 2. When should parents begin the religious training of their children? 3. What is the attitude of young children toward things Divine? Toward their parents? 4. How should we feel towards the weaknesses of relatives or friends? 5. What do you consider the fundamental principle of ethics? 6. What effect is produced by the giving of loving service? : RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 13 7. Name the parts of the Bible mentioned in the text that everyone should be able to repeat. Where are they found? What did Christ declare to be the greatest commandment? Give chapter and verses. 9. Relate some faith promoting experiences with which you are acquainted. 10. What effect on our own lives has the contemplation of matters spiritual or highly moral? September HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN Lesson VII. "For the seed shall be prosperous; the vine shall give her fruit, and the ground shall give her increase, and the heavens shall give their due and I will cause the remnant to this people to possess all these things."  Zech. :8:12. May we hope the above quotation has been literally fulfilled, that our yields of both gardens and fields have been most bounteous and fruitful, that in sowing, and with proper cultivation on our own part, that nature has given to us all we could hope to have received? And in this, as in all other gifts from our Creator, we are thankful and appreciative of the same. It is now time, even in the midst of harvest of this year's yields, to begin the preparation for another year of vegetables, fruits and flowers. Fall Planting, or early planting of onion and spinach seeds, etc. The preparation of soil as given in the March and April numbers of the Bulletin will also apply to the soil conditions for fall planting; only this difference: in planting, it should be remembered that the earth is now warmed to a greater depth, and the digging and plowing must of necessity be much deeper, also the planting of seed should be some deeper than in early spring. Onions and spinach, planted sufficiently early to get a good start, and then properly protected, in extreme cold climates, will be ready to continue growing as soon as the warm days of spring come, and thus produce a good early harvest for family and market use. We should begin preparation of tho soil and planting at once, in order to succeed for next spring's early productions. Sweet Peas: Select for planting sweet peas seeds that are well ripened home grown ones are not usually satisfactory, ; unless great care has been taken to secure them from the best sturdy producers of bloom, and well ripened. By trenching, 14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. filling with sandy soil well fertilized, plant on both side of trench, so that your trellis comes in the middle of the two rows, having plenty of sunlight and water. The seeds will soon germinate and push through the soil. When the cold, fall storms set in, cover them with leaves; by this they are well protected and have an early start for spring, and will give you rich returns, by having peas in bloom very much earlier than oy spring planting. Pansies: Pansies may be treated in like manner as sweet peas, only in beds instead of trenches, and not so deep as pea seeds. Pansies planted in August will be early bloomers. Remember how even they must be covered with leaves, or some other suitable covering, in late fall. If you will refer to March, April and May numbers of the Bulletin you will find tables for planting, also kinds of seeds to plant. The "Little Giant" pansy seed is considered very fine. Preserving, Pickling and Jelly-making: Preserving, pickling and jelly-making form an important part in the housewife's busy life, and should be done as far as possible by the adoption of scientific methods, in order that less time and fruit be wasted. Sterilization by heat is the basis of the preservation of food to be bottled or canned. The presence of bacteria is the cause of fermentation and decay. Let us master this by properly cleaning, scalding and sterilizing all utensils, bottles and cans to be used, thus mastering the essential principles. Fruits that are not quite ripe are better adapted for preserving, and especially for jelly-making, than over-ripe fruit. All fruits should be freshly picked, and that of inferior quality should be discarded and used immediately. To sterilize jars, have two pans partly filled with cold water, place jars in one, laying them on their sides, place covers or lids in the other pan now let them heat to boiling point, ; and let boil five or ten minutes. Having attended strictly to this, we are now prepared to bottle our fruit. Use only fresh rubbers it is poor economy to buy cheap; rubbers or use them a second time as a general rule black rubbers are more durable than white ones. Jellies: Acid fruit is most suitable for jelly-making, though in some of the acid fruits there is but little of the substance called pectin, such as strawberries, which causes the fruit to jell, and the pectin must be in the right condition. Such fruits as red currants, black currants, raspberries, strawberries, crabapples, quinces, grapes, etc., are most desirable for preserves and jellies. For further information write U. A. College for Circular No. 25, Vol. II, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Farmers Bulletin 359. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 15 September LITERATURE Lesson VII. (Thirty Minutes.) Ten minute talk on current events. Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin. Subject: Franklin's attitude toward religion. References Altemus edition, chapters 6, 1, and 8. Crowell: edition, pp. 115 to 156. Sentiment: "God helps them that help themselves." 1. Franklin's account of his religious beliefs and practices (Altemus edition, pp. 144-147; Crowell, pp. 115-117). 2. Sermon of the day too narrow to satisfy Franklin. 3. Scheme of a society for extending the influence of virtue. (Altemus, pp. 164-167; Crowell, pp. 133-136). (a) Need of such society. (b) Establishment of society. Name. 4. Religious unrest of the times. Revivals of Whitefield and others. (Altemus, pp. 185-192 Crowell, pp. 150-156.) QUESTIONS. 1. In this discussion on religion, Franklin does not mention the name or mission of the Savior, nor does he say anything about revealed religion. While his beliefs are inadequate and incomplete, he still holds to some principles that are fundamental to the truth. Mention some of these. 2. What does Franklin say about public worship? 3. What was his attitude toward prayer? 4. Would you call Franklin a spiritual-minded man, or a practical man? Why? 5. What were the requirements of those who would join Franklin's creed? 6. What objections have you to the proposed method of obtaining members? 7. Compare this method of bringing people together for spiritual uplift with that used by the Savior; with that used by the Latter-day Saints. 8. A spirit of unrest seemed to be hovering over the whole country at this time. It was a period of revolution, both politically and religiously. What connection had the religious revivals of Whitefield and others with the later introduction of the gospel of Jesus Christ? 9. What evidence can you give as proof that the people were anxious to find the truth? 16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE SCHOOL The Presidency and General Board of the Relief Society announce that the next class in the Relief Society Nurse School will commence Monday, September 21, 1914, and continue eight months, in Salt Lake Cit3^ Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will be the instructor. It is requested that the Stake Presidents will at once consult with their Ward Presidents for the purpose of selecting intelligent and energetic women of suitable age and of good moral character to take this course in nursing. We sincerely trust that members of the Relief Society realize the value and necessity of this Course of Nursing, as it isa fact that 95 per cent of the inhabitants of our country cannot afford to pay the price of a graduate, hospital nurse, and yet our sick of the masses should receive trained and skilful nursing. We can also recommend this course in nursing as a much needed part of every young woman's education. The tuition for the course will be $20.00, and it is expected that the Belief Society organization in each ward will pay the tuition fee for their representatives. However, any student who wishes to pay the tuition herself may do so, if she is willing to accept and sign the Relief Society Nurse Contract, as published in the July Bulletin, page 14. For full particulars write Clarissa S. Williams, 37 North West Temple, or Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, 79 C street. Salt Lake THOMAS HULL ELIJAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH ICE CREAIVI SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST" Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Delivery Phones: Wasatch 32233224 Jensen's Butters "Blanchard" and "Four-in-One" EXCEL IN QUALITY AND FLAVOR W. N. Williams, Supt. Clarissa S. Williams. Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises foods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable. Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges^ Heaters, Qo-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch 207 Salt Lake City Utah Marion Banks FINE Charlton's Millinery CLOAK & SUIT GO. The right place for AT REASONABLE PRICES practical styles in GOODWIN CORSETS Women's Wear This ad. will redeem 10 per cent on purchase at regular price 321 SO. MAIN STREET, 0pp. Walkers Clearance Sale Now On. Come or Send Mail Orders Star Printing Company 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake City, Utah ASK YOUR DEALER FOR Z. O. M. I. Western Scout Shoes The Ideal Out-door Shoe For Men, Youths, Boys, Cheap, serviceable. Used extensively by Carpenters, Iron workers, boy scouts, etc. ''MOUNTAINEER" or "THE LEADER" Overalls are honestly made. They don't rip. We are prepared to supply you with all books recommended for RELIEF SOCIETY CLASSES ALSO ALL RELIEF SOCIETY BLANKS, BLANK BOOKS and RECORDS DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE LEADING BOOK CONCERN No. 6 MAIN STREET A Grafonola for the Ward $25 Upward $10 Cash $5 a Mo. Play over in your Ward House records of the singing of the famous TABERNACLE CHOIR Also any records you want for any occasion  dance popular sacred, etc. Older than the State of Utah Write for Catalogue and FREE calendar. SEE McCONAHAY For Diamonds 64 MAIN ST. The Jeweler===Sait Lake $22 and up BETTER THINGS TO EAT'* CORNER MAIN & 1st SO. 158 SOUTH MAIN ST. CAF WHILE LABORING FOR THE POOR AND AIDING THE WIDOW IN WANT, DON'T NEGLECT YOURSELF AND FAMILY Have they the proper protection in ease of sickness or death of your bread winner or will you be compelled to look for charity? Has he sufficient life insurance to assure you this protection? JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N. STOHL 2nd. Vice Pres. & Mgr. 1st. Vice President. INSURANCE OVER IN FORCE 5 $12,.000,000.00 JOSEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building Salt Lake City, Utah C. VV. NIBLEY RICHAKD W. YOU^G Member Ex. Com. Counsel 