Counsel Relict Society Bulletin Volume 1 April, 1914. Number 4 Issued by the Officers and Directors of the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 1914 HUMAN SERVICE has come to be a consideration of political parties, or social organizations, and of educational institutions. THE RELIEF SOCIETY has been an instrument of human service for more than half a century. It ministers to the immediate material wants of the community. It has been pronounced by many students an institution for community charity. THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE at Logan aims in a very definite way to make each member of society a more capable producer, a better farmer, housewife, tradesman, agricultural engineer, or business man and thus aims to eliminate want. Its field of work therefore, properly co-operates with the work of relief societies in serving the men and women of the State. While Its courses are distinctly practical, it deals in a broad and fundamental way with the basic industries of the State. Liberal instruction Is given in the natural and physical sciences, in mathematics, history, English, economics, literature and languages. The College has been slowly built into an embodiment of the State's idealism. ; Willes-Horne Drug Company News Building, Salt Lake City. Our Drug Store Is Complete TREATMENT PERFECT. PRICES RIGHT. WE SOLICIT YOUR PATRONAGE. Prompt Attention to Mail Orders. Lambourne Floral Dept. EVERYTHING FLORAL. DECORATIONS. FUNERAL WORK. Etc., Etc. Special Notice to Garment Users. It is recommended and advised by the most particular and careful buyers of L. D. S. Garments that TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS be used exclusively because of their superior quality, fit and finish. Be sure when making your purchases to look carefully in the neck of garments for the words TEMPLE BRAND, found immediately below the approved label. If they are not there the garment is not the APPROVED TEMPLE BRAND, manufactured exclusively by the Salt Lake Knitting Works for the better class of trade and discriminating purchasers. If your local dealer does not handle TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS send your orders to Salt Lake Knitting Store, 70 Main Street. Salt Lake City. Post ate free to all parts of the United States. Prices as follows Best grade of combed cotton, gauze weight $1.00 Best grade of combed cotton, medium weight... 1.25 Superior cotton, unbleached, medium weight 1.25 Superior cotton, bleached, medium weight   1.50 Superior cotton, unbleached, extra heavy weight.... 1.50 Best grade Sea Island lisle, gauze weight 1.50 Best grade combed cotton, heavy weight, fleeced  .  .  1.75. . Best grade Sea Island mercerized, light weight   2.0O  Wash shrunk, part wool, medium weight 2.00 Wash shrunk. Merino wool, heavy weight 2.25 Wash shrunk. Utah wool, extra heavy weight 3.00   Wash shrunk, imported part wool, light weight, extra fine 3.00 Pure Australian Wool, medium weight... 4,00 Remember that postage is free, also that there is no substitution for Temple Brand Garments, and if you are not wearing them now you will some day Then regret not having done so before. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE Salt Lake City, Utah. 

INDEX TO LESSON STATEMENTS. PAGE 
Charity and Faith 1 
Tithing in the Relief Society 3 
Genealogy and Testimony 5 
Home Ethics.... 6 
Home Gardening for Women 8 
Literature 12 
Art and Architecture 14 
Report Blanks 14 
The American City 16 

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist. 
1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. 
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City. 
3. SALT LAKE KNITTING WORKS, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City. 
4. CRISMON & NICHOLS, 229-231 So. West Temple, Salt Lake City. 
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., 251-259 E. First South, Sak*Lake City. 
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City. 
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City. 
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St., Salt Lake City. 
9. L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES, Salt Lake City. 
10. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City. 
11. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City, 
12. HOTEL UTAH, Salt Lake City. 
13. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. 
14. CUTLER BROS. CO., 36 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
15. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. 
16. MORRISON BAKING CO., 158 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
17. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City. 
18. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main St., Sa't Lake City. 
19. PORTER-WALTON CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. F. J. NICHOLS C. C. CRISMON GOLD TESTS Melted, Assayed, Purchased Cyanide, Concentration, Amalgamation CRISMON & NICHOLS ASSAYERS and CHEMISTS Office and Laboratory 229 & 231 So. West Temple St. Wasatch 2393. P. O. Box 78 Salt Lake City, Utah Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 years in one location 251=253=255-257 East First South St. Salt Lake City, Utah modern methods complete equipment efficient service SPECIAL NOTICE SONS & DAUGHTERS of the UTAH PIONEERS -THEL D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE was established by your FATHERS for YOU. OPEN ALL THE YEAR. Day and Evening Sessions. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ORGAN OF THK WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

Vol 1. April, 1914. No. 4 Editor Mrs. Susa Yoxing Gate Business Manager Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Advisory Committee Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Mrs. Julina L. Smith Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley Publishers and Proprietors General Board of the Relief Society Office Room 28 Bishop's Building:, Salt Lake City One Dollar a Year Ten Cents a Copy Entered as second-class matter on February 18, 1914, at the Post Office at Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. 

CHARITY AND FAITH. "Charity Never Faileth." This motto has been adopted by the Relief Society, and indeed it seems most applicable for our organization, whose chief work is in that direction. The New Testament abounds in texts upon this and relative subjects and the daily life of the Savior is replete with testimony of His acts of charity and deeds of mercy and kindness, setting for his followers this pattern of going about doinggood. In the lives of the sisters who devote themselves to Relief Society work, we see the resemblance to those who followed the example of the Master; ministering to the wants of the needy and the sick and the sorrowing, and coming into the homes of the people like rays of sunshine. It is truly a labor of love to go among the people with a cheerful countenance, proving that there is a delight in the work of scattering sunshine as well as sowing seed that will spring up and yield good fruit; and persuading those whom they visit to live lives of usefulness and not neglect the duties and obligations that devolve upon all who would have the spirit of the Gospel within their hearts. In this way only can we become recipients of the blessings that follow in the pathway of those that love the Lord. The Savior himself said: "If ye love me, ye will keep my commandments;" and this must not be simply in form and ceremony but from the heart, and with an abiding faith in God and in his Son, Jesus Christ, ^he Savior of the world. 2 BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN "Strong Son of God Immortal Love, "Whom we who have not seen Thy Face By faith and faith alone embrace, Believing where we cannot prove." Faith must be the foundation upon which to build the; apostle says: "Faith without works is dead." In the Relief Society and in the home there is abundant opportunity to manifest our faith by our works. The sisters should not lose sight of the principles of Faith, Hope and Charity, and we might add to these, Mercy, which we are told in the scriptures, endureth forever. Beloved sisters, do not be afraid of being thought oldfashioned if you continue to bear testimony, for in this way your own faith and the faith of others is strengthened. The testimony of the Gospel carries with it light and we help; others even more than we are aware, when we impart of that which we have received. We must not become weary in welldoing, but keep our Gospel Armor bright, being diligent in season and out of season to preserve in our lives and in the hearts of the children of Zion the living testimony of the truth, that we may not be found wanting in energy and in diligence in the latter-day work. It is worth every effort we can put forth, this "prize of the high calling.'' It is difficult to realize all that the Gospel implies, all that it means to this generation now living, the height and depth and intelligence necessary to comprehend it in its fullness. When we look back and take into consideration the principles revealed to the Prophet Joseph and which he taught to the people during the few years of his ministry, we can only exclaim in the language of the Bible, "a marvelous work and a wonder;" and we cannot doubt, if we take time to consider, that he could have been instructed in and prepared for his work only by the Lord himself; for he received thoughts and truths that had been hidden from before the foundations of this world were laid. The Relief Society since its first organization has done a great work, not only materially but spiritually, and the women engaged in this work have grown in grace and in knowledge of right living. Many of those who have been valiant in the work have passed away and another generation is on the stage of action. Comparatively few of the veterans of the Society are now living to instruct and persuade and remind these younger members of the conditions and the struggles associated with the establishment of the Relief Society. But what an education, both temporal and spiritual, the Society has been to the women who have labored in it Those who have devoted! I BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 3 time and effort in helping to build it up and maintain it have been marvelously blessed and benefited, and have received true knowledge, surpassing in many respects the benefits derived from schools and colleges. The writer has sometimes thought that a mission was more beneficial to boys and young men than a college course; and the sisters have a parallel opportunity in the Belief Society if they do their work well and acquit themselves honorably. Let them therefore live up to the highest standard of excellence as a people we should be a; light to the world, "a city set upon a hill." Let us be faithful and true, and cause our light to shine, so that others may follow that light. After all, light is life and we can not attain to great excellence without light. When the Lord created the earth on which we live he said, "Let there be light," and immediately at His command the world became a thing of beauty. Remember the parable of the virgins and be ye among the wise ones who kept their lamps trimmed and burning, that ye may be ready to meet the great bridegroom when he comes. EMMELINE B. "WELLS. EDITORIAL. TITHING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. If the statistics of the various quorums and auxiliary organizations in the Church could be segregated, we feel sure that the officers and members of the Relief Society would prove to be among the best and most faithful of tithe-payers. Not tithe-payers who contribute the greatest amount individually, but tithe-payers who are both diligent and honest in their dealings with the Lord. Women, as a rule, are less selfish, less grasping, and more willing to share their blessings with each other, and with the Lord, than men. The seventy odd years of training which our beloved Relief Society sisters have received in charitable and philanthropic works, have so imbued them with the spirit of true devotion and unselfish principle that tithing is an easy law for them to observe. There is, however, another duty that confronts the Relief Society workers in regard to this principle: it is not enough that we shall be tithe-payers ourselves, we must exercise all our powers in an endeavor to inculcate this principle in the minds of our children and grandchildren. Even then, our duty does not cease. We should encourage our husbands and our sons to be exact and scrupulous in the observance of this law. 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Not by haranguing them, nor by nagging at them, for this policy will defeat the very end we are seeking to accomplish; but with loving tact and tender suggestion, coupled with constant prayer, we may help our husbands and our sons to keep the law. Having done all this, dear sisters, our duty is not discharged completely, for we should teach this principle in our Relief Society meetings, through exchanging our experiences, reading the Scriptures, and discussing the principle. Moreover, when the teachers visit the members, they may tactfully call attention to the observance of this principle by the housemother, and the children. To be sure, it is unwise for the Society teachers to criticize in any way the conduct of the Priesthood, in the home, but they are surely at liberty to admonish and encourage the women to observe the laws of God. Some women suppose that if their husbands and sons pay tithing, nothing is required of them, but the fact that our husbands and sons observe the Word of Wisdom, or keep holy the Sabbath day does not absolve us from obeying these laws. If we have any source of income, such as the sale of eggs, butter, or milk if we earn anything, either on the farm or in the city, ; we are in duty bound to tithe our earnings. Brigham Young once said to Sister Zina D. Young, that he regretted the fact that he had always paid the tithing for his family, and added that if he had his life to live over again, he would arrange matters so that every wife and child should be permitted to pay a personal tithing. Another fallacy is that some of our worthy poor, who are supported or assisted by the Relief Society or the Church, think they do not need to pay their tithing on what they thus receive. These sisters, who are so supported, are as much in duty bound to tithe their income as other women in the Church. A good widow who received ten dollars from the Church asked President Joseph F. Smith if it was required of her to tithe that small charity fund. He replied, most emphatically, in the affirmative; and this should be an example for all such cases. For unless we pay tithing, our names do not appear on the Church tithing records, and if they do not appear, we are under condemnation according to the word of the Lord, as recorded in Sec. 119, Doc. and Cov. Tithing is a principle with promise, and should be so considered and studied by the Relief Society. Has any other principle resulted in greater rewards to the faithful than this particular law? Sisters of the Relief Society, what are your opinions, and what are your practices in regard to tithing? RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN April GENEALOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson IV. Ten minutes talk on Current Events. Note-Books and Family Records. The importance of making correct records of our dead and of preserving these most carefully is amply attested in the revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith. We would suggest that the sisters in the Relief Society begin this lesson by reading the 128th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Especially do we emphasize those sentences in verse 8 which reads: ''Whatsoever you record on earth, shall be recorded in heaven; for out of the books shall your dead be judged, according to their own works, whether they themselves have attended to the ordinances in their own 'propria persona,' or by the means of their own agents, according to the ordinance which God has prepared for their salvation from before the foundation of the world, according to the records which they have kept concerning their dead." The genealogical data should be placed first in a pencil note-book and then copied with ink into the family records. The Genealogical Society have printed a special note-book for the use of the Saints in preparing their genealogical data which materially assists to simplify their work. The penciled note-book may be one of those suggested costing 10c each, or an ordinary note-book, size about 8y2 by 14. This size is selected because of its convenience in taking sufficient data on one page. On the fly-leaf of this book should be the full name of the person who records the data, the address of that person, the date of the beginning of the work in the book, and the date of its completion. These dates give little history clues in the making up of the genealogical data. On the fly-leaf also should be placed the fact of whether it is English names, or American names that are gathered in the book, or whether they are names taken from a traditional source or some genealogical or public library, or a written or printed record. Moreover, on the top of each page of the note-book as well as on each page of the Family Record for temple use, the particular book or register from which that page of information is taken, should always be recorded. This source of information is invaluable for the replacing of neglected data, or for future reference. For instance, if we had searched Vol. Ill of London Marriages, we should not want to search that again, and this recording of the source of information prevents duplication of research and confusion. 6 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN The names of our dead are the symbols in which their images are called up to our own minds and to the minds of those who read these symbols on a written or printed page; indeed these symbols are in very many cases the only earthly remains of our ancestral dead. The bodies of our fathers sleep in the dust, the tombstones in the cemeteries have fallen into the earth or have given place in the centuries to others crowding in upon them. There is nothing left, therefore, of these, our forefathers, except the written church records, or a printed book upon which the symbols that represent the Christian, or surname of the individual may be recorded. How carefully then should the Latter-Day Saints preserve every scrap of paper upon which is written or printed the names of their ancestors. The Family Record for temple work can be purchased from the Deseret News Book Store or the Sunday School Union Book Store at various prices. It is always better to take a threequire book which is cheaper proportionately, because there are more pages for the same price in the three-quire book than in the one-quire book. The binding is the expensive part of it, and there is no student but what will have plenty of names to fill up, not only one, but many, many books with the names of his dead. After the note-book has been carefully arranged and filled, this data may be copied into the Family Record of temple work. All of the rules and suggestions that have been laid down for the pencil note-book in regard to name, address, date of work done, and sources of information, should be followed in the Family Record quite as scrupulously as in the note-book. A sample of the note-book form of preparing data is given on page 15 of this Bulletin. April HOME ETHICS Lesson IV. (Twenty Minutes.) Ten minutes talk on Current Events. (a) Respect and mutual interest in the home. (b) No one person is independent of any and all other persons. (c) The home circle may be compared to an intricate piece of machinery. (d) Parents are responsible for order and system in their homes, or for the lack of that condition. (e) Children pattern largely after their parents. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 7 (f) Respect for right and authority begin at home. (g) Washington and Lincoln merit respect and love. (h) Parents should be the confidants and companions of their children, (i) No worldly pleasure can ever compensate a mother for the loss of one soul from her own family, (j) To our pioneer fathers and mothers we owe respect, love and veneration. Respect and Mutual Interest in the Home. In every complete and perfectly ordered home, there should be mutual interest existing between all the members and inmates thereof. Fathers and mothers, sons and daughters, should be bound together, not shutting out the help employed in the family. Each person is in a large way dependent on every other person. The home circle is, in comparison, similar to a fine piece of machinery, every little cog, brace or balance-wheel, has its duty to perform and is alike important in its own particular place. Order and system, respect and reverence in the home, are largely in the hands of parents, or guardians. Their example permeates every branch and corner of the home nest. Children copy largely from fathers and mothers in what they do; therefore, how necessary it is that the parents plan and achieve right and proper ends. If the interest of the heads of the home be cemented with their children's best interests, all who enter such an abode will feel and recognize the sweet and precious influence. Respect begins in the immediate family; it is gained or lost around the hearthstone. The standard of each household is measured by the true faith, love, honor and dignity maintained in that elementary community. "When we read the histories of foreign countries and their leaders' lives, and compare them with those of our own America, we cannot fail to appreciate and revere our great "Washington, the founder, and Lincoln, the preserver, of our Union. Their example, under the most trying difficulties, is worthy of emulation. The respect, the love, and the united interest, which these two men inspired, even in their colored servants and humblest subjects, are truly admirable and praiseworthy. Respect is essential to success in every walk in life respect; for the rights of others, and for mutual interest engenders respect for ourselves and our own rights. In the home it is necessary to show interest in what the children do, in their friends, their pleasures and in their education; we should show interest in their religious, mental,  8 BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN moral, and social life we should read the literature they read, ; and thus understand what effect their pursuits have upon their characters. We should discuss with them the subjects that lie near their hearts, be companions and confidants to them. Mothers will suffer more regret, more sorrow, over one beautiful soul lost through lack of proper care, than they will receive pleasures in all that the world can ever offer. 'Tis not our province to give lengthy topics along "Home Ethics," but, dear sisters, we do wish to impress you with faith and belief in the importance of proper family life and its great responsibility. As we sit here thinking and writing, our mind goes back over a long life. We see our childhood again, and the worthy, noble, heroic, good men and women, our parents and pioneers, who have left a heritage, better, stronger and more lasting to us, than all the wealth, grandeur or distinction of this world. Their sacrifice of all they possessed on the altar of principle; their unsullied life work; their patient surmounting of difficulties all these are precious bequests to us by our valiant fathers and mothers, the "Mormon" pioneers! Their hope and faith in God, their respect for each other, and their united interest in the Church leaders and in their homes, brought to them success and spiritual victory, and to us, their descendants, these virtues should be as rich heritages. April HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN Lesson IV. (Twenty Minutes.) *'In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thy hand for thou knowest not whether shall prosper; this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good." Eccles. 2:6. The home garden should be situated in the richest and best land to be found in the whole city lot and if it is not, it; should be made so by proper drainage, and fertilization. It should be given plenty of sunlight, and removed from the shade of fences and trees. With these conditions favorably worked out, with good, selected seeds, with care taken in planting, and with the usual average climatic conditions, there is no reason why it should not be a most successful garden. Let taste and space determine first of all what shall be planted.  Asparagus. A perennial plant of the lily family, largely developed by cultivation, and which is grown as an article of RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 9 food. It is propagated in beds heavily mulched, the young shoots being the only portion eaten. It is one of the earliest spring vegetables. It should not be cut after the middle of June, when it should be left to seed and dry down preparatory for the next season's crop; during the cutting season, cut the stalks deep down in the earth, and keep them cut constantly if you wish them to be tender and brittle. Asparagus requires plenty of water and sunshine to create rapid growth. Beets. Beets are well known vegetables, valued as food owing to the large quantities of sugar they contain. There are four kinds of beets cultivated, the common beet, the Chard, the Sea and the mangel-wurzel. They are easily grown, and very profitable for table use.  Peas and Beans. There are many varieties of each suitable for our climate. Peas can be planted much earlier than beans, as they are not so easily nipped by the frost. Stake as soon as they begin to form tendrils. Keep off the ground, as they sometimes mildew; as soon as the first crop yields, plant another, and you will have new peas and beans all season. Let us recommend for your use the Telephone, Marrow-fat, and an early pea called the Tom Thumb. These are of the finest varieties grown. Keep the soil loose and well hilled up around the plants.  Rhubarb. Homely old rhubarb is the best blood tonic, and the easiest grown of almost any plant in the world, once you get it well rooted. The plant bulbs or doubled tuber roots can be taken up and divided year after year and replanted until you and all your friends have rhubarb the season through. In the fall when the leaves have died down, loosen the dirt around the roots, cover with rotted manure, and as soon as the snow is melted in the spring, rake off part of its covering and place old barrels or pans over the top. This gives extra warmth and draws the sun, and before you are aware, the red and green tops are pushing their way through the earth. Give plenty of water and keep the soil loose about the plants.  Sage. Sage is an extensive genus of plants of the mint family which is widely distributed in warm regions, embracing 450 species. Most varieties are perennials of shrubby nature. It is very easily grown, and should be sown in open ground and kept well watered and hoed. It is used extensively for flavoring meat, especially for dressing in poultry, and the leaves are employed in making a slightly stimulating tea. Sage seed can be purchased at any seed store, and should be planted in 10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN shallow trenches and covered lightly. Just pluck the leaves and the stalks will dry down. Parsley. Parsely one of the most used and easily is grown herbs, having almost an endless life. It can be sown on top of well prepared soil, lightly raked in and patted down with a hoe. Keep well sprinkled, but do not get discouraged as it requires some thirty days before you see little Miss Parsely peeping through the ground. Do not pull up, but cut off the tops. It will soon grow again, and can be taken up in the fall, put in pots or boxes, and kept in the kitchen window green all winter for table use. If I only had a piece of ground 2x6 feet, I'd have all the above named things planted on it.  Flowers. Marigold, Phlox, Zinnias, Nasturtiums, BachelorButtons, Lark Spur, Columbines, etc., are the old-fashioned flowers our mothers used to grow. All are grown from seed, and require about similar conditions to make them mature. Let us put on our bonnets, walk out in the sunshine and begin now to plan for our garden, and choose from nature's gift some of its wonderful plant life to fill our lives with new thoughts and new ambition.  Sweet Peas. Just a word about these beautiful flowers. Sweet peas can be grown almost anywhere, where soil and sunshine meet. Like all other plants, success begins with the seeds, although home-grown seed is less likely to be satisfactory than are the home-grown Bachelor-Buttons or Cosmos, or almost any other common garden flower. Preparation of the soil is now the first thing to consider; drainage is also an important factor towards success. It is almost impossible to plant too early. As soon as able to work the ground, one may get ready to plant sweet peas. Let us next consider getting the seed well down in the ground. Dig a trench about a  foot deep and six inches wide now pulverize the soil taken out, see that it is rich and somewhat sandy  partly fill in the  trench leaving about four inches to be filled in later sprinkle either margin of the trench with the pea seed, then cover with about two inches of soil. They are strong and vigorous, and will soon find their way through the covering. Keep the soil loose, adding more as the plants grow, until the trench is filled and on a level with the rest of the garden plot. Stick in at once plenty of good strong willows, and do not over-water. In July, August and September you will be amply paid for all time and money spent, for each day you will be able to pluck great handfuls of these fragrant and sweet butterfly-like flowers. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 11 April LITERATURE Lesson IV. (Thirty Minutes.) Ten minutes talk on Current Events.  Note Because of the great demand for the Autobiography bf Benjamin Franklin, it has been impossible for the publishers of the edition we were using to supply the book stores in sufficient numbers to fill our orders promptly. There was so much delay that another edition has been ordered from a second publishing house. Aside from the notes and explanations, the reading matter in the two books is identical. References to both books will be given in the lessons. AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN. Statement. These literary lessons, as stated in the beginning, have two objects: First, to acquaint ourselves with the life of a great man, and second, to study his method of expressing himself, with the view of improving our own language. In reading and re-reading the "Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin," we are bound to be benefited in our own manner of expression. The importance of speaking properly and well needs no argument. The man who can explain himself perfectly, usually commands what he wants, while, on the other hand, the man who lacks this power is defeated by his own disability. We often hear people say, "I know what I want to say, but I do not know how to say it." It is within the reach of all to study  and to use good language--language that expresses exactly that which is felt and while some have a natural aptitude in this; direction, any person who sets out to improve his own speech may do so. so long as he has access to good books. Power in this direction once obtained, is his forever. In reading over the chapters, let us pay special attention to the choice of words, and the formation of sentences. We shall find that the words are not large and uncommon, but are simple and well chosen, and that the sentences are so clear as to be understood by school children. If we will read them over and over we will unconsciously gather words and expressions that will in time become our own, and our speech will be thus greatly enriched. In chapter one, Franklin tells us exactly how he studied and trained himself in the art of expression. LESSON IV. Subject: Franklin beginning business for himself. References: Extracts from chapters 4. 5 and 6 in Altemus edition, and from page 71 to 115 in Crowell edition. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 13 ''He that riseth late must trot all day and shall scarce overtake himself at night, while laziness travels so slowly that poverty soon overtakes him." 1. Mercantile Experience. (Altemus edition, pages 98100; Crowell edition, pages 71-72). 2. Superintendent of Keimer's printing office. (Altemus, 100-107; Crowell, 73-80). (a) Keimer's plan. (b) Workmen in the office. (c) Break with Keimer. (d) Plans with Meredith for a partnership. (e) Re-employed by Keimer to assist in printing paper money in New Jersey. 3. Sets up business. (Altemus, pages 114-115; Crowell, pages 82-83). (a) Made public printers, (pp. 122-125, Altemus; 88-89 Crowell). (b) Partnership dissolved. (Altemus, pp. 126-128; Crowell, pp. 89-92). (c) Franklin prints paper money. (Altemus, pp. 129131; Crowell, pp. 92-83). (d) Opens stationery shop. (Altemus, p. 131; Crowell, p. 93). 4. Habits of industry and frugality. (Altemus, pp. 119132; Crowell, pp. 86, 87, 94). 5. Courtship and marriage. (Altemus, pp. 134-136; Crowell, pp. 96-98). 6. Thrives in business with his wife's assistance. (Altemus, pp. 143-144; Crowell, pp. 113-115). QUESTIONS. 1. How did Franklin show ingenuity in Keimer's office? 2. What inspiration and benefits did he receive by going to Burlington with Keimer? 3. What does Franklin say about croakers? 4. Discuss Franklin's rivals in the printing business. Draw a comparison between Franklin and David Harry. 5. What was the great secret of Franklin's success in business? 6. Tell the story of the china bowl and silver spoon, as nearly in Franklin's words as you can. 7. What particular inspiration or help do you get from this lesson. b 14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN AprilART AND ARCHITECTURE Lesson IV. (Ten Minutes.) Porches: Use and Possibilities: The bungalow responsible for the popularity of porches. How the porch may be made the means for a natural transition from our indoor winter life to our outdoor summer life. The porch as dining room, living room and nursery. Screened sleeping porches for the poor as well as the well-to-do. Americans are fast learning the possibilities of porches. Formerly the porch was used as a means of beautifying a plain house, and often took on the character of an afterthought. "We are learning that the porch should be a part of the structure, and have its beginning in the foundation, or, at least, be a part of that which gives it strength and support. The porch is valuable in supplying a delightful means of transition from our indoor life in winter to our outdoor life in summer. It is the best means of bringing us into the fresh air. The screened sleeping porch is possible for both the rankand-file and the well-to-do, and becomes the culmination of luxury and comfort. In many of our modern cottages the living-room and dining-room, as well as the sleeping apartments, are convertible, by various devices, into screened porches. The dining porch, perched in some "coign of vantage," may provide a cool living room in summer, and a sunroom in winter, and is not too expensive for the house of the man with moderate means. The screened porch around the kitchen, may serve for the breakfast porch, and it also secures the house from contamination by the disease-spreading housefly, stable-fly and mosquito. REPORT BLANKS. Those who wish to purchase Relief Society Report Blanks should write to the Deseret News Book Store or the Sunday School Union Book Store, where they are on sale for 25 cents a dozen. The Minute-books and Roll-books should also be purchased from the same places, as we do not keep them in the Relief Society Headquarters. Roll-books cost from 35 cents up to $1.25. Minute-books from 25 cents to $4.00, according to size and binding. Both stores carry all these books. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN THE AMERICAN CITY. We would advise our sisters not to purchase the expensive book called "The American City," which was first recommended in our Giude. It is not as suitable as we could wish, and it is very expensive. We hope to have our book of Art and Architecture, written by Mrs. Alice Merrill Horneready for use very soon, and this will contain a chapter or two which will cover most of the ground of home and civic improvement. Therefore, we suggest that the sisters wait for this book soon to be issued. OUR ADVERTISERS. We desire to call attention to the various firms who advertise in our pages, as each and all of them deserve well at the hands of the thousands of women who read this Bulletin. Not only are they loyal in the support they have given this Bulletin, and therefore are loyal to the Relief Society Cause, but also each and all of them are absolutely Tellable and worthy of the united support of the women of the Relief Society. We suggest to those who live in this city, or vicinity, to make their purchases from the firm which we advertise, while those visitors who come from a distance at Conference time, or on all other occasions, should patronize our friends who advertise with us. We would appreciate it if you Sisters would mention the fact to our business firms, that you saw their advertisement in the Bulletin and thus was led to patronize them. Let us be loyal to those who are loyal to us. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief General Board Society FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch 207 Salt Lake City Utah THE L. HOSPITAL TRAINING D. S. SCHOOL FOR NURSES has an average enrollment of about 100 Nurses In training. The hospital has capacity of 250 beds. The training school is under the direction and supervision of highly trained graduate nurses from schools of national reputation. It gives a three years course in training in nursing in all its branches. For further particulars address the Superintendent of Nurses Dr. W.H. GROVES LATTER-DAY SAINTS HOSPITAL, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST' ' Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Delivery Phones Wasatch 32233224: THOMAS HULL ELIJAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH W. N. Williams, Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable. Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishing of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. SEED and NURSERY BOOK FOR 1914 NOW READY This up to the minute Guide Book is brimming full of information that means Dollars to every Planter of Seeds, Plants, Roses, Shrubs and Trees. It gives complete details for Lawn, Garden, Orchard and Farm. Mention this paper and write for FREE COPY. PORTER=WALTON CO. SEEDSMEN, NURSERYMEN & FLORISTS SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. Star Printing Company 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake Citi;, Utah Ask your Dealer For ''MOUNTAINEER 9) or THE LEADER' It Z. C. M. I. Overalls don't rip. See you get them School Shoes They keep the children's feel warm and dryprevent doctor's bills, CUTLER'S UTAH MADE GOODS Command Attention Buy At Home Approved Garments Bleached or Unbleached 75c Light Weight $1.00 Lisle Thread $1.00 Medium Weight $1.25 Heavy Weight POSTAGE PREPAID. Provo Dress Goods==Suitings==Blankets. SAMPLES SENT ON REQUEST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HOTEL UTAH 500 Rooms. Fireproof Opened June 8, 1911 "The very best of every, thing at sensible prices " Rates for room without bath $1.50 and $2.00. With bath $2.50 per day and upwards. Under the Management of GEORGE O. RELF We want your name on our mailing list== To get it we will send you post paid a high grade cut glass jelly dish or a heavy solid gold real stone set scarf pin for $1. MONEY REFUNDED IF NOT SATISFACTORY McConahay, the Jeweler 64 MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY * MORRISON BAKERY CO BETTER THINGS TO EAT'' TWO PLACES CORNER MAIN & 1st SO. 158 SOUTH MAIN ST. WHILE LABORING FOR THE POOR AND AIDING THE WIDOW IN WANT, DON'T NEGLECT YOURSELF AND FAMILY Have they the proper protection in ease of sickness or death of your bread winner or will you be compelled to look for charity? Has he sufficient life insurance to assure you this protection? JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N. STOHL 1st. Vice President. 2nd. Vice Pres. & Mgr. INSURANCE OVER IN FORCE 12,000,000.00 JOSEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building Salt Lake City, Utah C. W. NIBLEY RICHARD W. YOUNG Member Ex. Com. counsel Relief Society Bulletin Volume 1 May, 1914. Number 5 Issued by the Officers and Directors of the GENERAL BOARD OF THE BELIEF SOCIETY 1914 HUMAN SERVICE has come to be a consideration of political parties, or social organizations, and of educational institutions. THE RELIEF SOCIETY has been an instrument of human service for more than half a century. It ministers to the immediate material wants of the community. It has been pronounced by many students an institution for community charity. THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE at Logan aims in a very definite way to make each member of society a more capable producer, a better farmer, housewife, tradesman, agricultural engineer, or business man and thus aims to eliminate want. Its field of work therefore, properly co-operates with the work of relief societies in serving the men and women of the State. While its courses are distinctly practical, it deals in a broad and fundamental way with the basic industries of the State. Liberal instruction Is given in the natural and physical sciences, in mathematics, history, English, economics, literature and languages. The College has been slowly built into an embodiment of the State's idealism. Willes-Horne Drug Company News Building, Salt Lake City. Our Drug Store Is Complete TREATMENT PERFECT. PRICES RIGHT. WE SOLICIT YOUR PATRONAGE. Prompt Attention to Mail Orders. Lambourne Floral Dept. EVERYTHING ELOKAL. DECORATIONS. FUNERAL WORK. Etc., Etc. THE L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES has an average enrollment of about 100 Nurses In training. The hospital has capacity of 250 beds. The training school is under the direction and supervision of highly trained graduate nurses from schools of national reputation. It gives a three years course in training in nursing in all its branches. For further particulars address the Superintendent of Nurses Dr. W.H. GROVES LATTER-DAY SAINTS HOSPITAL, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 