Relief Society Bulletin Volume 1 Number 1 Issued by the Officers and Directors of the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 1914 HUMAN SERVICE has come to be a consideration of political parties, or social organizations, and of educational institutions. THE RELIEF SOCIETY has been an instrument of human service for more than half a century. It ministers to the immediate material wants of the community. It has been pronounced by many students an institution for community charity. THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE at Logan aims in a very definite way to make each member of society a more capable producer, a better farmer, housewife, tradesman, agricultural engineer, or business man and thus aims to eliminate want. Its field of work therefore, properly co-operates with the work of relief societies in serving the men and women of the State. While its courses are distinctly practical, it deals in abroad and fundamental way with the basic industries of the State. Liberal instruction is given in the natural and physical sciences, in mathematics, history, English, economics, literature and languages The College has been slowly built into an embodiment of the State's idealism. NOTE-  The Farmers' Round-Up and Housekeepers' Conference convenes at Logan from January 26 to February 7, 1914. The Utah Dry Farmers' Association, the State Dairymen's Association, the State Beekeepers' Association, and the State Poultrymen's Association meet at the College on the same dates. Reduced rates are announced over all railroads. Willes-Horne Drug Company News Building, Salt Lake City Our Drug Store is Complete. TREATMENT PERFECT. PRICES RIGHT. WE SOLICIT YOUR PATRONAGE. Prompt Attention to Mail Orders. Lambourne Floral Dept. EVERYTHING FLORAL. DECORATIONS. FUNERAL WORK. Etc., Etc. Special Notice to Garment Users. It is recommended and advised by the most particular and careful buyers of L. D. S. Garments that TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS be used exclusively because of their superior quality, fit and finish. Be sure when making your purchases to look carefully in the neck of garments for the words TEMPLE BRAND, found immediately below the approved label. If they are not there the garment is not the APPROVED TEMPLE BRAND, manufactured exclusively by the Salt Lake Knitting Works for the better class of trade and discriminating purchasers. If your local dealer does not handle TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS send your orders to Salt Lake Knitting Store, 70 Main Street. Salt Lake City. Postage free to all parts of the United States. Prices as follows; Best grade of combed cotton, gauze weight $1.00 Best grade of combed cotton, medium weight 1.25 Superior cotton, unbleached, medium weight... 1.2.5 Superior cotton, bleached, medium weight. . 1.50 Superior cotton, unbleached, extra heavy weight 1.50. . . Best grade Sea Island lisle, gauze weight 1.50. . Best grade combed cotton, heavy weight, fleeced. 1.75 Best grade Sea Island mercerized, light weight....... 2.00. . Wash shrunk, part wool medium weight... ... 2.00 Wash shrunk. Merino wool, heavy weight   2.25. Wash shrunk. Utah wool, extra heavy weight... 3.00 Wash shrunk, imported part wool, light weight, extra fine... 3.00 Pure Australian Wool, medium weight... 4,00 Remember that postage is free, also that there is no substitution for Temple Brand Garments, and if you are not wearing them now you will some day. Then regret not having done so before. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE Salt Lake City, Utah 

INDEX TO LESSON STATEMENTS. PAGE 
President's Address 1 
Current Events     3 
Genealogical Department 5 
Home Ethics 7 
Home Gardening 8 
Literary Department 11 
Architecture and Art 13 Instructions 14 

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY 
Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist. 
1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. 
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City. 
3. SALT LAKE KNITTING WORKS, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City. 
4. ELIAS MORRIS & SONS CO., 21 West South Temple, Salt Lake City. 
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., 251-259 E. First South, Salt Lake City. 
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City. 
7. LARKIN AND HULL, 255 South Second East, Salt Lake City.
 8. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City. 
9. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH, Salt Lake City. 
10. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City. 
11. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Bee Hive House, Salt Lake City. 
12. RELIEF SOCIETY HOME, 36 West North Temple St., Salt Lake City. 
13. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. 14. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City. Monuments, Mantels & Tile, Cement Chimneys Mantels and Tile set in all parts of Utah and Southern Idaho Write for free catalogues of Mantels, also of Monuments Elias Morris & Sons Go. "Where the Fire Burns" Geo. Q. Morris, Mgr. 21 West South Temple St. Salt Lake City, Utah Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 years in one location 251=253=255=257 East First South St. Salt Lake City, Utah MODERN METHODS COMPLETE EQUIPMENT EFFICIENT SERVICE THE LEADING COMMERCIAL SCHOOL OF THE WEST L D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Highest Efficiency. Lowest Rates. Ask for our Circular. Phone Wasatch 320 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN.

VOL. I. January, 1914 NO. 1 PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS TO BE READ AT WORK AND BUSINESS MEETING Beloved Sisters of the Relief Society Throughout the World: For years we have toiled and joyed together in this glorious work of love and amelioration of suffering which we call Relief Society work. We have seen the church glorified with the presence of its Prophet and Seer, and we have witnessed the awful scenes which took him from this earth. We have made a part of that historic exodus from inhospitable Missouri into the Valleys of the Mountains. We have watched, nay, we have participated, in the pioneer toils which have made this desert blossom as the rose, and we have followed in the line of colonization which has planted the feet of this people from the soft snowy hills of Canada to the red desert wilds of Mexico. Wherever our people have gone there have been Relief Society workers gathering up their means from each other's scanty stores to minister to those who were sick or in want, giving encouragement to the weary and heartsick, while warning the wayward and thoughtless. We have nursed the sick of our people, robed the dying for their last resting-place, fed the hungry, visited the orphan and succored the needy. This, sisters, is, has been, and ever will be the true spirit and genius of this whole organization. It was inculcated by the Prophet in its beginning and has been reiterated again and again by the leaders of this church who have succeeded him and by the leaders of this organization. We charge you to keep this spirit burning bright in your bosoms. The fact that the lessons which are now to be presented to your consideration dwell more upon the temporal things of the Kingdom than on the spiritual, is not meant to emphasize the temporal side of our work in this Society. For all the gifts and learning of the world are valueless when placed in the scale with the pure things of this Gospel. But, sisters, let us seek to make a portion of our meetings sufficiently attractive to call in the bright and eager minds amongst the younger portion of the community, so that when we leave this sphere of action, the younger women will be  trained in both the spiritual and practical things of this work. 2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN We would have you, while your hands are busy with the shaping of clothing for the poor or the making of articles for disposition in your ward in this meeting, to listen to these words with your spirits. For we would speak to you of Charity. Charity that never faileth. That Charity which counts the gifts and powers of the Gospel of not so much worth as the sympathetic forgiveness and understanding which should exist between the women of our community. Remember that we all may offend, for we are all mortal but let us be; quick to forgive. Our goods to the poor and our bodies to be burned, but, oh, let our souls bow down in prayer for those who offend us. If they need higher light, better understanding of principle, let us kneel before the Throne of Grace in their behalf. It may well happen that the beam is in our own eye, not in our neighbors; and prayer for him will do more to remove the beam from our eye than all other means. We would have you keep in mind the foundation principle of this organization as of the Church namely, that we must: get and keep the spirit of testimony in our hearts, while we seek to awaken and develop in the minds of others that same elevating spirit. The women who have born the heat and burden of the day, beginning with the present President of this organization, have been women who have partaken of that spirit of testimony in their early youth. But it is not enough that you have that spirit in your own heart, you must constantly and faithfully try to impart that spirit to the members of your household and to the members of this Society. Invite the young women into your Society; urge them to speak and take part in your lesson work. You may need the fresh young vigor and enthusiasm of the girls of this church in your work  but they need your sweet testimonies far more and the fruitful examples that you set before them in this organization. Manifest an abiding reverence for the priesthood  as held by the men of your household and the household of faith. Seek their counsel and take it. You can not err here or hereafter in following their counsel. Teach your sons and daughters this saving principle. No more inspiring lesson has been taught this Board while preparing these lessons for you than the instructions given us by our venerable and honored President, who declares that we must keep before our eyes continually, in all this lesson work and in all our labors, the genuine spirit of the Gospel, which is the spirit of testimony and of obedience. We wish every memof the Society to receive her inspired message. It is this message which we are now endeavoring to pass on to you in this RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 3 address. Words are weak, but they embody thought and it is her thought which we are conveying to you. Let these reflections garnish your thoughts by day and comfort your evening meditations. Sisters of the Relief Society, your lives are a living example of charity, pure and undefiled. Of such is the Kingdom of Heaven. SAMPLE LESSON FOR THE CURRENT TOPIC. Local Topics (Three Minutes) (Prepared Dec. 6, 1913.) Ten Minutes' Talk on Current Topics. Utah Day for All Salt Lake City Merchants. Dedication of Mesa Chapels. Utah Marble for Capitol Building. Shop Early. Schools. Theatres and Moving Picture Shows. Town Topics. While it may be unavoidable to speak at times of crime and scandals as a part of the daily news, the conductor of Current Topics should lead away from sensational subjects and to a consistent interest in that which builds up truth and righteousness in the earth. The human mind can contain but one thought at a time see to it that the momentary visitant; of your mind be of clean habits and pure influence. The schools of your own district should come in for earnest attention. The mothers can make or mar the efforts of good or weak-minded teachers and build up or tear down the schools of any district. Censor your own Moving Picture shows. Be sure that the INDIRECT effect of a film is not evil. More harm comes from veiled suggestions than from open exposures or teachings. Study your play-houses, and protect, if you can, the young from the pernicious effects of loose-moraled plays and shows. Add local topics of interest to your locality. It is good to read of the progress of our church affairs, both local and general. National Topics (Three Minutes.) Suffrage Methods in Washington. Denver Lies Under Heavy Mantle of Snow. 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Shall Religious Songs be Sung in the Schools of the United States? Does Cold Storage Affect Prices. Money Markets Unsteady. Message of President Woodrow Wilson. Let the members of the Relief Society understand that one of the good things hoped for in this department will be that discussions on various phases of public policy and public men can be taken up without engendering feeling or producing strife. There should be no contention of any sort in the meetings of this body. Argument, the Prophet told us, brings the spirit of evil into our midst. But we should all acquaint ourselves with the vital issues of the day, whether religious, political or social, and discuss them in that spirit of broad charity and human sympathy, which was so beautifully portrayed to us by President Joseph F. Smith in his sermon at our last Conference. It is well to keep abreast of the day in the study of our money markets. We hope to become trained in the administration of our financial resources, whether they be great or small. And Ave may well begin by following the methods of our brethren, who observe these questions closely. Every citizen of the United States should read carefully any message that is sent out by the President of the United States. And this recent one is short, simple and easily undertsood by the mass of the people. You may or may not agree with all its items and recommendations, but you should become familiar with it. International Topics (Three Minutes.) The Mexican Situation. Votes for Women as An International Issue.  Ludwig of Bavaria the New King. Secretary Bryan Negotiating Treaty with Denmark. Great German Firms Will Exhibit at Panama Exposition. Emperor William Recovers From Long Illness. These topics are only selected as models or suggestions. It is important that the current topics of international interest shall be taken, and in order to comprehend the tenor and drift of them it would be necessary to begin by giving a brief explanation of the general condition in any one country or a single situation in that country. After that, it would only be necessary to touch lightly upon the subject to bring it up to date.  BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 5 General Suggestions: The topics here selected are but indicative, yet it will be seen that they cover the various phases of current progress.  "We suggest that your topics be grouped for the beginners into several heads, such as War, Education, Government, Religion, Art, Ethics, Music and Philanthropy. These may be varied, added to or set aside as conditions and circumstances may require. Indeed, this is but suggestive after all. "Whatever is said, or whatever is brought forward, let us remember that the spirit of argument, or dissension must be strictly avoided. Get light, get information, but get it from the standard of the. Gospel. In every phase of these Current Topics, as of all Relief Society work, try to bring out of every discussion, from each piece of news, local, national or international, the germ of truth, and adapt every truth to your own local needs and conditions. "We trust this will prove of benefit to all concerned. SECOND MEETING Ten Minutes Talk on Current Events. GENEALOGY Testimony Bearing. Lesson Statement for First Lesson (Twenty Minutes.) THE SPIRIT OF ELIJAH. "I will turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to their fathers." Malachi. Ch. IV. Ver. 6. (a) Its effects on the church. (b) Its effects on the world. (c) Genealogical societies of the world, (d) Genealogical Society of Utah. What is the Spirit of Elijah? The Saviour told His disciples that He had come to them ' ' in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the children to the fathers." (Luke, Chap. I, Verse 17.) All of His friends who write of Him in the New Testament, Matthew,  Mark, Luke and John, repeat more or less of this important message which He delivered in the beginning of His short career.  And it was surely true witness the fact that the graves were opened at his death and many came forth. While we know from both Peter and Paul's testimony that baptism RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN  no other ordinance workwas a very important and probably frequent part of the Temple labors in that city of Jerusalem, where Jesus lived and died. Paul uses this fact as an argument to the doubting saints at Corinth, saying "else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the deed?" (I Cor. Chap. 15, Verse 29). It might be remarked in passing that these pregnant words are used in every formal burial service of the Christian world, and yet none of the ministers believe the words they utter. What are the effects of this spirit of Elijah on this church? It had a most powerful effect on the mind of the Prophet Joseph Smith, for he said, "that the greatest responsibility that rested upon the Saints was to seek after their dead." He laid the foundation, built and dedicated the Kirtland Temple, and laid the foundation of the Navoo Temple and revealed and established all the ordinances now practiced in our Temples. It had that same effect upon the mind of his successor, President Brigham Young, for he laid the foundations of the temple in Salt Lake City in the first years of poverty and struggle which this people endured in these Valleys. He built also the Temple in St. George, laid the foundation stones of those in Manti and Logan, and left his testimony with the people on this subject. His successor, President John Taylor, was likewis engaged in completing Temples. He dedicated the Temple at Logan, and told the people at that service that no matter how much they could do for their dead in their earthly conditions, "our dead could do far more for us in their condition on the Other Side." His successor was President Wilford Woodruff, and no man in this church was more earnestly committed to this work of vicarious salvation. He was so vitally engaged in his spirit and feeling in this work that he received more than one important revelation on the regulation and further9,nee of the ordinance work in the Temples. He dedicated the temple in Salt Lake City, and had charge of the dedication of the Manti Temple, although President Lorenzo Snow conducted that service. President Woodruff stated in the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple that he "now turned the key for the world to favor Zion." ; President Lorenzo Snow was the head of the Salt Lake Temple for years and his devotion to that work was known to all people. His successor, President Joseph F. Smith, was a faithful worker in the old Endowment House for many years. He is as devotedly engaged in the advancement of this work-as any one of his predecessors. He has assisted in the dedication ceremonies of all the Temples in Utah and has dedicated the  RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 7 site for the Temple in Canada, the land where his mother received the Gospel, and he is filled with the spirit of encouragement and assistance in this glorious cause. What are the people doing to carry out their part of this mission?  The people of the world always "wiser in their generation than the children of light," have received liberally of this spirit of Elijah or Elias, and they have organized Genealogical Societies in every country and in most of the states of the United States. They are publishing books, by the thousands, establishing libraries, and have gathered millions of the names and   dates of their dead which are our dead for we are of their kith and kin. They have done and are doing their full part what are we doing? The authorities of this church organized a society on the lines followed by the original New England Society at Boston, Mass., and in 1894 the Genealogical Society of Utah came into existence. It was formed for the "assisting of the Saints in securing and preparing the records of their dead.'' It has headquarters in the Historian's Office of this city, has a good, if small, library of books, publishes a magazine devoted to the interests of this work, which is sent as an exchange to every similar society in the world and which should be in the home of every Latter-day Saint, and it is this Society, which has prepared and issued this series of lessons for the Relief Society. The leaders of this people are alive and awake to their duty and responsibility to the dead, but what about the people? Each Ward and the Saints composing the Ward must answer this important question for herself and themselves, and the sisters composing the Relief Society. (See Doc. and Gov., Sec. 127 and 128, Compendium, Baptism for the Dead and Spirits in Prison.) THIRD MEETING Ten Minutes Talk on Current Events. HOME ETHICS Civic Pride (Twenty Minutes. Topic 1. Personal pride in making one's own homestead clean beautiful. . Topic 2. Our share and responsibility as citizens in making and maintaining a good water system:  8 BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Topic 3. What we could do to improve the streets and thoroughfares near us. Topic 4. How we can help in making parks and playgrounds. Topic 5. Our responsibility and share in beautifying the grounds upon which church buildings are erected. Assignments (a) Make a sketch to show how the grounds upon which your Relief Society Hall stands could be laid out in lawns, walks, trees and flower beds. (b) Make a sketch showing how grounds upon which your Stake Tabernacle is erected could be beautified. (c) Make a design of a new public park for your own town, with details in lawns, trees, flower beds, swings, etc. (d) Write a five-minute statement as to what methods could be best employed to rid neighboring thoroughfares of weeds. (e) Write a five-minute paper on how to secure pure water for your town. (f) Enumerate all the trees that will grow in your locality. (g) Name the wild shrubs and trees that grow in the mountains near by. (h) Tell in three minutes what could be done in reforesting desolate hills that were once timbered. LESSONS IN HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN Twenty Minutes. LESSON 1. ''While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease." (Gen. Ch. 8, Ver. 22.) (a) City Gardens, Flowers, Kitchen Gardens. (b) Country Gardens, Flowers, Kitchen Gardens. (c) Study Bulletins and Catalogues. (d) Study of Soils. (e) Wasted Grounds about the Homes of Relief Society Women. (f) Gardening for Women Pays: In Money, in Health and Character-building. Children should assist. (g) Ideal Home Companionship. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 9 Perhaps no promise in the Scripture is more precious nor comforting to the human family at large than that one made to Noah which heads this lesson. There is another one which complements this: "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread." (Gen. Ch. 3. Ver. 19.) Those who eat without labor are the sick ones of this earth. Some people work at that which hath no profit but the man or woman who workswith; head and hand in the earth, bringing forth seed and fruit, flower and vegetation, develops forces which bring health, happiness, upward growth of character and joy unspeakable. When the pioneers settled these western vales, Brigham Young told the people to choose one acre and a quarter, which was enough ground to grow sufficient fruit and vegetables for that family to become independent. Not taking land which would not^ be cultivated and profitable, but enough for the raising of summer and winter vegetables for the family's use, while the beautifying of the home with flowers was as faithfully taught. Few men and fewer women are so closely occupied that one hour in the early dawn could not be given to the planting of a flower and vegetable garden about the home. . If parents and children united in this love-labor, no home for lot would be too small, none too large, in city or country, the cultivation of few or many such valuable adjuncts to family life. How is it today? Let each answer this question in city or in country. How much land have you about your home place? How much of a flower garden have you? How many vegetables do you raise? Acres and acres of wasted land lie about our city lots, while miles of ground lie idle or cluttered with weeds around the neglected homes in our country towns. Whose fault is this? No matter whose the fault, the remedy lies with the mothers and daughters of this people. Few tables are spread with the  luxuries of the varying season's vegetables grown by the family. A city lot, six rods by three, with a large house on it, is made to produce all the lettuce, onions, asparagus, rhubarb, beets, carrots, summer squash and herbs the family use, while on this same lot there stands three varieties of productive cherries, three plum trees, two fine peach trees, two apple trees, and some good grape vines. All the trees are fruit trees and made to yield. Women make as good gardeners as men. One grandmother, aged 76, raised all her vegetables, except winter potatoes. She lives in a southern town, is a widow, hires a man to do the spading and ploughing. Dr. Romania B. Penrose, eighty years young, raises as fine a garden in her city lot as can be found anywhere. 10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Let any woman present who has done similar work here state her experience. When the still, cold months of winter are upon us, let the bulletins and catalogues from the seed houses occupy a portion of our leisure time. From these we may gleam much help and inspiration for our coming season's planting. It is a part of wisdom not to begin this work we are outlining with too big plans and calculations. If a woman is alone, or has children too young to assist, let her firmly decide to select only a few plants to start her first year's gardening. Better make a success of carrots and marigolds, than to try so many things that nothing succeeds. Study the nature of the soil in your neighborhood. You^ State Agricultural College will supply you with all the information you wish on this detail. Read U. E. Bulletin 257, and acquaint yourself with the conditions in your own section. You may begin this work only to comply with this lesson requirement but you will also find yourself engaged in an occupation; that will eventually bring health, worldly prosperity and happiness to yourself and loved ones. Gardening for women pays. It brings you in close contact with mother earth, keeps you young and spry, drives out blues and melancholy, brings the dawn and the stars to your doorstep, and opens an easy channel between you and your Heavenly Father and Mother. They were the first gardeners. It may not pay you to raise vegetables to sell in country' towns, but it will give you the wealth of the land in your own: homes, it will build up your shattered nerves, and above all, it will teach your children habits of thrift and industry, ifyou will gather them about you in your gardening, there will be a companionship grow up between you and your dear onesthat pays large dividends of affection. Children should be taught to raise flowers and vegetables as they are taught to raise standards and flags. Mix your gardening with brain. A great painter, when asked how he mixed his paints said he ''mixed them with" brains." No force in the universe gives such rich returns to human beings as do the processes of life in field and garden. Intelligence plus industry in agricultural life pays the largest: interest known to physical existence. Associate with plants and flowers, with babies and home folks if you would be truly cultured. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 11 FOURTH MEETING. Ten Minutes Talk on Current Events. LITERATURE Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin (Thirty Minutes.) The object of this course is to give Relief Society members an opportunity to study from first hand sources the life of one of America's greatest men. This can be done by reading the story of his life as he himself has told it. In reading the book itself we achieve two things: first, we learn from Franklins own words how he won his way from the humble walks of life to positions of trust and fame; second, we acquaint ourselves with one of the best books ever written. The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin is regarded by eminent critics as a literary masterpiece. In speaking of Franklin one writer says: "Benjamin Franklin is the best example of a self-made man that history affords. No other American has achieved greatness in so many directions. He was a writer, a scientist, an inventor, a statesman, a diplomat and a philosopher. "In science he made the discovery that electricity is the cause of lightning and he wrote papers on electricity that won the admiration of Europe. He invented the stove, the lightning rod and the water organ. He organized the first police force and the first fire company. He was one of the greatest statesman of his age and is perhaps the ablest representative our nation ever sent abroad." The autobiography was written in Franklin's 79th year. It tells the story of his life up to the age of 51 years and is intensely interesting from start to finish. It has been so popular that over 50 editions have been disposed of in this country and it has been translated into French and German. This course of study will consist of ten lessons. The first nine will be taken from the autobiography and the tenth will consist of a discussion of the great things Franklin did for this country after his 51st year. The edition of the book used by the committee in arranging the lessons is published by the Henry Altinus Co. of Philadelphia, and can be had at the Deseret News Book Store for 25c per. copy; 30c postpaid It will be necessary for each ward association to have at least one copy of the book and it would be gratifying if every member of the Relief Society would purchase A copy for her 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN own library. Money could not be invested in a better book. Every school boy reads it or parts of it, every parent should read, study and own it. Sentiments will be placed at the head of each lesson and should be learned by everybody. They will be taken from "Poor Richard's Almanac," by Benjamin Franklin, and are known the world over as Franklin's Proverbs. Ancestry, Parentage and Youth. Reference: Chap. I. Autobiography. "Early to bed and early to rise. Makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise." 1. Ancestry  (a) Origin of family, (b) Nationality. (c Type of People. 1. Religion. 2. Occupation. (d) Franklin's Father. (e) Franklin's Mother. 2. Parental Training and Direction  (a) Father puts children out to learn trades. (b) Studies them to see where their inclinations lie. (c) Franklin's love of books leads father to make printer of him. (d) Corrects son's style of writing. (e) Establishes custom of instructive table talk. 3. Schooling  (a) Grammar school. (b) School for writing and arithmetic. 4. Learning a Trade  (a) Taken from father's shop and apprenticed to his brother, James, in the printing business. (b) Advantage of change. 1. Contact with well-informed men. 2. Access to books. 3. Through being allowed to board himself saves money to buy books and gains time in which to study. (c) Disagreement of brothers and separation. 5. How Franklin Taught Himself  (a) Studied "Spectator" (by Addison and Steele), and imitated it. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 13 (b) Studied Arithmetic, Navigation, Philosophy, Rhetoric and Logic. (c) Studied Socratic method of discussion and practiced it. 6. Anecdotes  (a) Building a wharf. (b) Anonymous writing for newspapers. Questions. 1. "Why did Franklin write the story of his life? 2. How does he acknowledge God? 3. Discuss Franklin's ancestry. 4. Describe character of his father. 5. Describe character of his mother. 6. Discuss method of Franklin's father in bringing better table talk into his home. 7. What do you think of plan Franklin adopted to educate himself? to become an author? 8. How may the method of Socrates be used to advantage by all? 9. What does Franklin say about vanity? 10. How did Franklin show honor to his parents? ART AND ARCHITECTURE "The Bungalow" (Ten Minutes.) "Is your house honest?" Utility the necessity of Art. Derivation of the name, "Bungalow." How adapted by the English. The California Bungalow. The essentials of the true Bungalow in regard to character of openings, shelter, etc. Compactness in kitchen and adjoining parts of the house. Study of pleasing proportions; the element of art in the placing of windows, doors and chimneys. Accessories and surroundings that add beauty to an artistic Bungalow. The motive which should dominate all home building is a feeling of domestic architecture. A sense of privacy should be expressed in every home. Not only should this idea be conveyed through the individuality shown in the selection of furniture14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN pictures, floor coverings, light fixtures, etc., but the exterior should impress even the passerby with dignity, good breeding and in a measure, with the sanctity of the family circle within its walls. The main lines of a successfully-built home should (if built with the best art), indicate frankness, honesty in construction and even directness of purpose. All this very naturally tends toward the making of a beautiful home life and such influences reach out to all those who pass under its roof. The spirit of honesty, characteristic of Pioneer land marks appears to be again entering into its own. Utility is and has always been the foundation of all true art and no more beautiful types of architecture can be found in the length and breadth of the state than the historic Lion House, "White House, Beehive House or the old Historian Office, which were built during a period of study of fitness and when simplicity and originality, and an undivided purpose abounded in the hearts and homes of the Saints. Reference: Young "Woman's Journal for January, 1914. Assignments. What is the derivation of the word, "Bungalow?" What application did the English make of the East Indian name and idea of the Bungalow? By whom was it borrowed from the English? How was the California Bungalow developed? What are the essential characteristics of the true Bungalow? Illustrate as to openness, shelter and compactness. What means do we of the mountains employ to adapt the California Bungalow to our own uses? What are the effects of the steep roof on height of ceilings, house-work and economy? What is the real foundation of the best architecture? What materials would be most profitably used in building a Bungalow in your town? Plan a Bungalow to suit your own family needs. What opportunities for beauty are afforded by such openings as windows, doors and the placing of chimneys? Sketch surroundings that you would like that you could make for your home. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 15 INSTRUCTIONS. In presenting the GUIDE AND BULLETIN to you, dear sisters, we ask for your co-operation and assistance in making this trial year a success. You can do this by accepting the Lessons we have prepared, insofar as your varying circumstances will permit. We repeat what was said in the GUIDE, that all the Lessons, with the exception of the Lessons on Geneaology, are optional with each stake. You may wish to take a part of the Lessons only, and that, too, is quite agreeable with the General Board. But at least, we do ask your loyal support of the ideas contained herein, and if you should find anything in any one Lesson, or any set of Lessons which you object to, may we ask you to state that objection to us. We are giving you a certain number of GUIDES AND BULLETINS this year free of charge. But we must ask you to take care of them, for we will not be able to supply more than those first sent out, unless it be in some case of actual need. For it would be extremely expensive to make a reprint  of this or the other book hence our request. We suggest that you appoint Stake and Ward Committees in the various Lessons we have given which you may desire to take up. For instance, let there be a Committee on Geneaology in your Stake Board and in the Wards. Also Committees on Ethics, Home Gardening, Art and Architecture, Literature and Current Events. These committees will have an especial oversight of the topics and will also enable you to bring in the various talented women in your Stake and Ward to work in their several specialties. Remember, also, that these Lessons can be shortened by choosing only one or more of the sub-headings which will give you the most applicable line of thought. Our Lessons are arranged for four meetings monthly, the first for business and the work which has always occupied your time. The second meeting is devoted to testimony-bearing and Genealogy. It is vitally important that your Testimony meetings shall not be interfered with in any way. But it was thought possible to combine the subject of Geneaology with Testimony-bearing, as one supplements the other. The topics of Art and Architecture have been designed to give some practical and helpful suggestions for those who do not live where architects abound, and we have hoped that any and all of you would get at least a few suggestions which would be helpful in your own lives. It may be that few of our beloved sisters can benefit by these ideas, but there are those of the younger generation who will eagerly seek help 16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN in the forming of their home ideals and in the actual building of their houses. It is for such that we have planned. In the lessons on Art we have aimed only to give a brief idea of the lives and works of our foremost American painters and artists. To those who love the beautiful these Lessons will appeal.  The Lessons on Home Ethics ethics being the study of  manners and morals have been designed to bring free discussion into our midst regarding the betterment of our home lives and home surroundings. The Parents' Classes of the Sunday Schools have led the way, and most of our sisters are already awake and alive. While we may not be able to reach these high points and ideals ourselves, we can be reading and talking of them so that our children and our grandchildren will receive this inspiration. The same is true of the work in Literature. One of the simplest and most useful books ever written in the domain of history has been chosen for your consideration, and Franklin's useful life will furnish many texts for our home circles. Thus we have sought to reach out and bring in all classes of women, interesting them in the glorious work of the Relief Society. The Current Events has been tried successfully in several Stakes and has proven so good that we now suggest it to you. But do not take too many subjects, nor too much time in this weekly resume of the world's events. Ten minutes will be sufficient if the one who conducts the exercises is familiar with her subject. In the Home Gardening for Women we have tried to awaken our sisters to some home conditions which have been neglected of late to introduce them to the wealth of nature; which lies at our doors for the planting and the garnering. It may be that few will take up this work, but those who do will be well rewarded for their pains. Indeed, we may say that we have sought to greet and meet you all in some one avenue of study and work. We do most earnestly pray that our efforts will not prove fruitless. It will be remembered that a series of Lessons on Genealogy are to be given at the next April Conference in this city, under the auspices of this Board. And we particularly ask each stake to choose two delegates to attend that Convention who have bright, quick minds, are ready and apt in taking notes and preparing lessons. For it is expected that they will go back to their Stakes prepared to assist in teaching Genealogy to the Stakes and Wards from which they come. We ask the Stake Presidents to take this matter up at once and be prepared to send such delegates for this coming Conference. ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST" Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Delivery Phones: Wasatch 3223-3224 THOMAS HULL ELLJAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. . Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH W. N. Williams. Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt. Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable. Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. Next Door South of Z. C. M. I.  THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH AT YOUR SERVICE THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES Preparation to make a life as well as a living. Courses in general science, liberal arts, commerce, and preparation for business THE STATE SCHOOL OF MINES Preparation for all branches of Engineering. A school in the west where a great country is in the making where the building of highways railroads, power plants, canals, and commercial and industrial structures of all kinds must push forward rapidly to keep pace with an expanding population; a school in the heart of one of the biggest mining regions of America, where are the greatest copper mines of the world, and the most extensive smelting plants. THE STATE SCHOOL OF EDUCATION Preparation for Teaching in common schools and high schools. A school that has drawn favorable attention from educators of high standing in our country, for its sensitive and sensible attitude in relation to modern educational theory. THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE Offering a combined course in Arts and Medicine (four years.) THE SCHOOL OF LAW A young departOffering full preparation for the practice of law. A young department with high standards, thorough methods, and some novel advantages. All the work in these several schools is fully up to the standard requirements, and is accepted in full by the best Universities in the United States For full particulars, address UNIVERSITY OF UTAH, Salt Lake City. Utah Z. C. M. I. GIVES SATISFACTION FOR 365 DAYS IN THE YEAR You should have the Utah Product day spirit. Then you will save money by purchasing Z.C.M.I. Factory SHOES & OVERALLS. We manufacture the following serviceable ShoesWestern, Scout, Summit, Bannock, Wyoming, Also School Shoes for Boys the famous Mountaineer and The Leader OVERALLS That dont ripare honestly made It is worth something to know you can depend upon the institution where you do your trading. That they are Strictly reliable, and that you can with safety send your children to buy knowing they will be given as good treatment as though you came in person. Our prices are never high, as low as possible consistent with the quality of the goods. Should you feel dissatisfied after making the famous a purchase, let us know. We have a reputation to up hold. 500 Rooms. Fireproof Opened June 8, 1911 "The very best of every, thing at sensible prices." Rates for room without bath S1.50andS2.00. With bath $2.50 per day and upwards. Under the Management of GEORGE O. RELIEF BURIAL CLOTHES Relief General Board Society FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch 207 Salt Lake City Utah RELIEF SOCIETY HOME FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS ROOMS REASONABLE Employment Bureau in connection with home. 36 West North Temple St. Phone Wasatch 4478 J. Star Printing Company 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake Cit^, Utah WHILE LABORING FOR THE POOR AND AIDING THE WIDOW IN WANT, DON'T NEGLECT YOURSELF AND FAMILY Have they the proper protection in ease of sickness or death of 3'our bread winner or will 3"ou be compelled to look for charity'? Has he sufficient life insurance to assure you this protection? JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N. STOHL 1st. Vice President. & Mgr. 2nd. Vice Pres. INSURANCE OVER IN FORCE $12,000,000.00 JOSEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building Salt Lake City, Utah C. W. NIBLEY RICHARD W. YOUKG Member Ex. Com. 