Relief Society Bulletin Volume I November, 1914. Number 11 Issued by the Officers and Directors of the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 1914 HUMAN SERVICE has come to be a consideration of political parties, or social organizations, and of educational institutions. THE RELIEF SOCIETY has been an instrument of human service for more than half a century. It ministers to the immediate material wants of the community. It has been pronounced by many student an institution for community charity. THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE at Logan aims in a very definite way to make each member of society a more capable producer, a better farmer, housewife, tradesman, agricultural engineer, or business man and thus aims to eliminate want. Its field of work therefore, properly co-operates with the work of relief societies in serving the men and women of the State. While its courses are distinctly practical, it deals in a broad and fundamental way with the basic industries of the State. Liberal instruction is given in the natural and physical sciences, in mathematics, history, English, economics, literature and languages. The College has been slowly built into an embodiment of the State's idealism. Willes-Horne Drug Company News Building, Salt Lake City. Our Drug Store Is Complete TREATMENT PERFECT. PRICES RIGHT. WE SOLICIT YOUR PATRONAGE. Prompt Attention to Mail Orders. Lambourne Floral Dept. EVERYTHING FLORAL. DECORATIONS. FUNERAL WORK. Etc., Etc. THE L. HOSPITAL TRAINING D. S. SCHOOL FOR NURSES has an average enrollment of about 100 Nurses in training. The hospital has capacity of 250 beds. The training school is under the direction and supervision of highly trained graduate nurses from schools of national reputation. It gives a three years course in training in nursing in all its branches. For further particulars address the Superintendent of Nurses Dr. W.H. GROVES LATTER-DAY SAINTS HOSPITAL, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. INDEX TO LESSON STATEMENTS. PAGE

Remarks Pres. Emmeline B. Wells.... 1
Editorial 4
Genealogy and Testimony 5
Home-Ethics 6
Home Gardening for Women 6
Literature 8
Art 9
October Conference 10
Notices 14

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY

Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist.

1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah.
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City.
3. WHITE SEWING MACHINE CO., 29 W. First South St. Phone Was. 5234, Salt Lake City.
4. L. C. SMITH & BROS., Typewriter, 379½ So. Main St., Salt Lake City.
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., UNDERTAKERS, 251-259 E. First South St., Salt Lake City.
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City.
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City.
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St. Salt Lake City.
9. L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES, Salt Lake City.
10. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City.
11. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City.
12. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City.
13. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main St., Salt Lake City.
14. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City.
15. CUTLERS, 36 S. Main St., Salt Lake City.
16. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City.
17. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main St., Salt Lake City.
18. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City.
19. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City.
20. JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake.
21. MARION BANKS, Millinery, and Charlton's Suit & Cloak Co., 321 So. Main, Salt Lake.
22. SCRACE'S BAKERY, 24 S. Main, Salt Lake City.

ADVERTISEMENT: L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER

Ball Bearings Give Greater Speed and Stability to the L. C. Smith & Bros. Typewriter
Ball Bearing, Long Wearing

Because of ball bearing typebars, the keys respond as readily as perfect piano keys. The capital shift works with equal ease—no lifting of a heavy carriage but simply shifting the light typebar segment, thus insuring absolute accuracy.

Another advantage—this machine is complete in itself for all kinds of work: tabulating, billing, large envelopes, cards or paper as narrow as a postage stamp.

WRITE FOR CATALOGUE To L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER CO.
379 SO. MAIN STREET
Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENT: S. M. TAYLOR & CO.

Established 1860 Incorporated 1908

S. M. TAYLOR & CO.
UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS
Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR
The Pioneer Undertaker of the West

53 years in one location
251-253-255-257 East First South St.
Salt Lake City, Utah

MODERN METHODS
COMPLETE EQUIPMENT
EFFICIENT SERVICE

ADVERTISEMENT: L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE

A SUCCESSFUL COLLEGE GROWS

In one year our increase has been forty per cent.

L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

Day Sessions: seven dollars a month
Night Sessions: four dollars a month

RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ORGAN OF THE WOMAN'S BELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Vol. 1. November, 1914. No. II Editor Mrs. Susa Young Gates Business Manager Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Advisory Committee Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Mrs. Julina L. Smith Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley Publishers and Proprietors General Board of the Relief Society Office Room 28 Bishop's Building-, Salt Lake City One Dollar a Year Ten Cents a Copy Entered as second-class matter on February 18, 1914, at the Poat Ode* at Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. 

The following beautiful and characteristic remarks were made by our President, Emmeline B. Wells, at the Relief Society conference, Oct. 3, 1914. That portion which dwelt upon the grain question will appear later in our Magazine My beloved sisters and brethren, I think we can all say and feel that we have had a great deal of good in this conference, both in the way of speaking and of singing and music, vocal and instrumental. And really it seems to me that we have had what we might call a genuine treat at this conference, because today we have had the President of the Church, the man above all others who stands at the head of this Church and kingdom here upon the earth, and we all, of course, love him, and love to hear him, and we are glad that he approves of some of our work any way, and he really cannot possibly have a conception of all that is done. That is impossible. But some who have visited many of the Stakes of Zion and many of the conferences of the Relief Society, and heard our sisters testify and report in our general conferences from year to year, have a very good idea of the work and we don't know it all. Those; in their own localities who call upon the sick and minister to them and who prepare them for burial, and who do all that  beautiful work and it is the finest work in the world, the very best work, the best charity that can possibly be because they  do both, they administer to their temporal wants, and they help to make them really what they ought to be made after death, personally clean and beautiful, beautiful in the robes 2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN that are given to the saints, and which we all prize so highly, I am quite sure. * * * * You remember at our last conference, and also in the conferences that have been visited during the present year, and I think there have been 130 visited, some of them a very long way off, we have said that we wanted to know the number of certain things. I hope you will remember that still. We do want to get the number of quilts that have been made, the number of yards of yarn carded, and a number of other things that I wont mention today, but I think you have all  heard it until you are well aware of it, we want that reported. We have not had an opportunity to do it at this conference, but we will, perhaps, next April. And next April I think that we will be able to report a great deal of work, that has not been done yet, necessary work, essential work, in the several stakes and in the missions as well, because they are included also along with the Stakes of Zion, and we know that a great deal has been done abroad, and especially in Great Britain and in Scandinavian countries, Norway, Sweden and Denmark, a vast amount of work has been done by the organizations of the Relief Society that has never been reported, as well as the work of the Relief Society on the islands of the sea, and at one time we had Relief Society branches, you know, in Africa. I don't know that we have any now. At any rate, we want to keep our organizations as perfect as we can. We want to accomplish all the temporal work that we can, that is necessary; but above all things in the world, Ave want faith and charity, and especially in the hearts of our children and of our young people and  of each other faith and charity. You remember the words that the Prophet Joseph gave us. You have all read them, I am sure. At any rate, the larger part of you have. The majority of you have read the minutes of the first organization, that have been published seven times in the Woman's Exponent, also distributed in leaflets, etc. The words of the Prophet Joseph, in the Relief Society, in the beginning, that charity was one of the things that we should be full of, full of compassion for each other. The word "compassion" was used. Full of meekness for each other. And you know the scriptures say it. We should forgive each other, and not hold grudges against each other, but forgive even before forgiveness is asked, and then you would be ready when forgiveness is asked. But we can forgive. We are obliged, almost, to forgive our enemies we have to. It seems necessary because we pray for; them, and if we pray for them we must forgive them. Teach 'these things, faith, charity and mercy. The scriptures say RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 3 mercy endureth forever, and you all know the little passages that we apply in our meetings to each other, and I am sure that it is not possible for any president who is here today, or any president of any ward in all the Stakes of Zion, to tell all the beautiful things that have been done and felt and realized. Compassion is well for the sick, because they need it, those that are in want, and those that are weak in the faith, they need it. We need to remember them if they have been a grieved, and if there is anything the matter, and visit them, and make them feel better, in the wards and in all the Stakes of Zion wherever they are, or the missions throughout the church. Let us do all these little things, and while we are doing the great things, let us also remember the little things, and I do hope and pray that we may all be spared to meet again in our conference next April, and we shall know, next April, a great deal more than we know now concerning that which is abroad in the world, because I realize, and you realize, no doubt, that great things are taking place in the world, great changes. There will be greater freedom, at any rate, in some of those countries after these wars for after the nations; have been subdued by war, and they have to pursue peace and I hope that you will all pray that we may not have war our m own land, not even in Mexico, because that. has been a grievous thing. I prav the Lord will be with us all during the conference that is before us, that commences tomorrow morning, and that be present in the tabernacle at as many of us as possible will opening of that conference, for that will be, perhaps, something will be thing that will give us an idea of what the conference throughout always is. The opening meeting gives the key-note of the conference, generally, and will in all probability tomorrow morning, and I hope that we will all be able to be there, and that nothing will prevent us, and that we shall all, and many more of us, come together again in our Relief Society conference next April, and have something wonderful, all of us, to tell each other there, and after we have had an opportunity of attending the conference here. May the Lord be and abide with the Relief Society throughout the world as well as with all those that love the Lord and obey His commandments. Amen. And the others, too. Amen. 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN EDITORIAL. "OUR THANKSGIVING." It may seem somewhat selfish for the people of the United States to be offering up thanks for peace and plenty, when the whole civilized world is filled with riot, carnage and distress. It may also seem selfish in the individual, who dedicates one day a year to the public giving of thanks for personal peace and prosperity, while his neighbor may be suffering poverty and sickness. Distress, like health, is a relative condition; the poor of any land may well be thankful for such blessings as they possess, while the rich and prosperous may sometimes bear other burdens quite as grievous as poverty or sickness. Only the Creator of us all may decide fully which are our blessings, and which are our distresses. A trial that may seem most grievous to be borne can easily have a pure and exalting effect upon the individual or the nation. Riches and success too often produce most lamentable effects upon persons as well as upon peoples. All in all, every person on this earth has reason to give thanks to the Creator for life upon the earth. Life is the greatest gift of God to man. How it shall be used and developed to the highest point, is a lesson which has as much to do with sickness, distress and poverty as it has to do Avith prosperity, health and success. When the sisters of the Relief Society offer up their thanks, this Thanksgiving month, let us be grateful lor some of the large gifts which belong to us all alike. Let us be grateful for life upon the earth for comparative health, or. for an instructive faith-promoting illness; for the bounteous crops of garden and farm, whether our share thereof be much or little; for liberty of conscience, and for the agency which permits us to travel ever upward, albeit we ever go in a zig-zag and irregular climb let us be thankful for citizenship in this wonderful country, where the will of the individual is subordinate to the good of the whole people. Above all, let us give thanks for a membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, where liberty, love, and peace are daily possibilities, no matter what circumstances or conditions may surround us. For all these things, then, we offer up our thanks to the Giver of all Good, while we pray for similar blessings to descend upon all God's children everywhere. BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 5 November GENEALOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson II. Ten Minutes Talk on Current Events. Preparing Sheets for Temple Use: "Whatsoever you record on earth shall be recorded in heaven, and whatsoever you do not record on earth shall not  be recorded in heaven." Doc. and Cov. 128: 8. In preparing this lesson, the class teacher will need to secure blanks from the temple in her district. There are three kinds of blanks issued for recording information to be used in our temple ordinance work. They are Baptismal sheets, : which are used also for endowment purposes; marriage sheets, which are used only for names of the dead who are to be sealed adoption sheets, which are used only for the purpose; of recording the names of the two parents and the family of children who are to be adopted to the parents. Each member of the class should have a sample sheet of all three of these record sheets, that this lesson might be prepared intelligently and carefully. Let the class teacher read the instructions on the baptismal sheet first, and then ask the class to prepare the sheet according to those instructions, and the same plan should be followed with all of the other sheets. You will observe several points; first, that all the men's names are put upon one sheet together for baptism and endowment purposes, and that all of the women's names are arranged in like manner. The marriage sheets have only the names of the couples to be sealed, without adding their children. The adoption sheets are arranged for recording one family thereon. Where there are but one or two children in a family, more than one family can be written on one sheet. Another point to be noted is that the numbering of these names is the clue by which the genealogist keeps order in his records. The numbers should be copied from the written family record, and not numbered on the sheet itself. For instance, if John Young is numbered in my temple record as 15, I should copy that number on my temple sheet, no matter whether he were first, last, or in the middle of the sheet. This allows the genealogist to know at a glance where the names belong m his record when he receives the sheet back from the temple. If the genealogist has several record books at home, and they are lettered a, b, c, etc., he should know exactly where the sometimes happens that the particular John Young belongs. It genalogists carry their numbers only up to 5,000, and then 6 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN begin at number 1, so that the number of the book as well as the number of the name should be noted on the temple sheet. The blank forms are reproduced in miniature in your Genealogical Lesson Book, to which please refer. November HOME ETHICS Lesson III. Christ, Our Example. "If a man say, 'I love God' and hateth his brother, he is a liar for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how; can he love God, whom he hath not seen?" In the centuries far back, when Britain was unknown, when the Germans were defying Caesar's staunch legions, Christ lived and was crucified in a small, despised section of the Roman empire. Though Christ never crossed the borders of his native country, save in his infancy, and though few ever beheld him in the flesh, he is today worshipped by millions upon millions of men. He is worshipped for his divinity, and for his atonement. He is known by us through those sacred books, the Bible and the Book of Mormon. Our knowledge of him is illuminated by the witness of the Spirit, to the extent that he appears to us as indeed our Elder Brother, our Teacher, and as the great Exemplar. Through the study of the gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, it is borne in upon us that living up to the teachings of Christ would, in the ages, cause men to approach the wisdom and power of God. The almost astounding truth is that his teachings, though of the highest ethical form, are not only workable but practical, and we discover that if we will, we each can order the conduct of our daily lives after the manner of the Son of Man. Let us read his life as recorded by the apostles, seeking to fasten into our hearts his every act and teaching, so that we may know how to emulate his example. Was he frank, sincere, just, reasonable, humble, patient, long-suffering, forgiving, generous, kind, thoughtful, courageous, truthful, sympathetic, willing to bless and comfort? Was he serene, calm and unruffled, in trial? Let each member recite at least one of his sayings, that will be a guiding principle in life. Let each member relate an incident in the life of Christ that came as a blessing to some one else, and remains an example to us for better living. HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN. "Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 7.season thereof, all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving Doc. & Gov. Sd, 11 also see Job 14:7, 8, 9. ; The spirit of thanksgiving is conducive to health and happiness. Appoint one of the sisters to prepare a paper on Thanksgiving. Tell when it was first observed in America, what its prime object was, and if, in her opinion, one still observes Thanksgiving in the same spirit as originally intended.  Native Currant Bushes. Native currants, otherwise known as black, yellow or wild currants, should always be found in the farm or home garden space. They should be given proper attention by not over-crowding. Keep well preserved and cultivated; do not allow suckers to grow and divide the strength of the main or original plant. In Lovell, Wyoming, the writer saw cultivated native currants, both black and yellow, almost as large as ordinary marbles, and the family producing them said that they were not able to supply the demand. They sold at a very good price, too, thus proving again the assertion, that it pays to produce the best of anything we raise or make.. Native currants thrive in almost any climate where vegetation will grow. Try planting a few bushes this fall. If you do not like the fruit yourselves, you can dispose of it at a very profitable figure to your neighbor or at the market. Rose Slips, Geranium Slips, etc., etc. You may, if you Lave a fine rose bush, still have another by cutting off slips or the strong undergrowth of the bush. Place it in moist sand, cover with a glass, put in a darkened place, and leave to germinate. Just the tips should be planted; or, take a long limb, bury it in the ground, leaving it attached to the original rose tree, cover all but the tip of the limb deep in the ground. In the spring, cut off and plant. Geraniums that have been growing in the gardens all summer are too large to move into the house. Just take slips, placing in pots or boxes of moist sand and keep in a cool, dark place. They will soon put forth new leaves and bloom in early winter, and supply you with garden geraniums for the next spring and without extra cost. Petunias, and many other varieties of flowers that are propagated by slips may be treated very successfully in the same manner as the rose and geranium. Bulbs: Hyacinths, Narcissus, Tulips, Snow-Drops, etc. November is the month in which to plant your bulbs. Convert the children to the idea and have the boys assist you after school hours to spade up the ground. Get old fertilizer from the barn yard, and mix with sand. Use a spade and work over very thoroughly or, better still, get leaf mold or soil from the; mountains, work the soil until it is pulverized and free from lumps. Drainage, too, must be considered in selecting the place for bulb planting, as too much standing water will cause 8 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN the bulbs to rot. and disappointment will greet you instead of flowers. Bad drainage may be overcome by placing small cobble rocks about fifteen inches down in the bottom of the flower bed, which allows the water to seep between the rocks and thus prevents the rotting of any of the bulbs, which is so often the ease. Select good, solid bulbs free from rot and avoid dry, inferior looking ones. It is impossible to produce good healthy blooms unless good seed is used. The soil may be properly prepared, and in the most thorough manner, the moisture may be ample, the season perfect, but with poor seed, you have corresponding results. Osage Orange, or Mock Orange, is very fine for hedges, but does not grow as rapidly as some others. It also has the disadvantage of producing the mock fruit, which, although children love to pluck, sometimes destroys, when they do so, the symmetry and shape of the hedges. We recommend to our readers Farmers' Bulletin No. 183, TJ. S. Department of Agriculture. By sending your name and address to the Department, or to Senator Reed Smoot or Congressman Joseph Howell, you will receive this bulletin, which contains valuable information. We hope you have received the Pure Fabric Bulletins, sent out by the Utah Agricultural College of Logan, and this, as well as all other literature sent to our presidents, must be preserved for future reference. We are indebted to the A. C. College for this and many other publications. November LITERATURE Lesson IV. (Thirty Minutes.) Ten minute talk on Current Events. Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin. Subject: Franklin's Interest in Education. Sentiment: "Experience keeps a dear school but fools will learn in no other and scarce in that." 1. Franklin as a student. a. Early struggles for knowledge. Altemus, pp. 3544. Crowell. pp. 14.23. b. Language studies. Altemus, pp. 175-176. c. Scientific studies. Altemus, pp. 266-273 Crowell, ; pp. 223-228. 2. Franklin establishes Academy, which later becomes: ; RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 9 the University of Philadelphia. Altemus. pp. 209-213, Crowell, pp. 169-173. a. Development of the scheme. b. Financial basis of the school. 3. Establishes free charity school. Altemus (see note. p. 213.) (Reference to this school is found in the Altemus edition only.) Two years after the academy was established a free school v/as advertised in "Franklin's Gazette," as follows: "Notice is hereby given, that on Monday, the 16th of September, a free school will be opened, under the care and direction of the Trustees of the Academy, at the new building, for the instruction of poor children, gratis, in reading, writing, and arithmetic. Those who are desirous of having their children admitted, may apply to any of the Trustees." A year later the following notice appeared in the same paper '"The charity school opened by the Trustees in the Academy, now teaches reading, writing, and arithmetic to a hundred poor children, most of whom, though from eight to thirteen years of age. had never been sent to any school before nor did it seem likely many of them would ever have been sent to any school if it had not been for this institution." QUESTIONS. 1. Discuss the subject, "Franklin, a Self-Made Man." 2. What is really the important thing in acquiring an education? 3. Compare Franklin with the type of man who is anxious to educate and inform himself only. 4. What do you think of Franklin's "free school?" 5. What great scientific discovery was made by Franklin as a result of his extensive experiments? 6. Amiat honor came to him through this discovery? ART. Whistler Innes: James A. McNiel Whistler is the greatest modern artist. He discovered to Europe the wonderful Japanese art. He  was not appreciated by his countrymen, Americans, nor yet by the English, among whom he made his home. The French, after long years, gave him his proper place. He was always appreciated by a few who were a source of consolation to the 10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN   great artist, whose life is art and art was his whole life led through long years of harsh jeering, taunting, acrid criticism, before he converted the world to his greatness. His etchings are marvels of beauty, and he is as wonderful in painting as in etching. Whistler has had a tremendous influence on the art of today. His art is subtle, delicate, original and spontaneous. To those who can not understand him, it is useless to explain,  for art can not be explained especially the highest art for  that can only be felt. (Read the October Bulletin on Whistler, Sargeant and Brush. Read Hafen's letter and Mary Teasdel's story in "Devotees and their Shrines," for references to Whistler; also the introductory and extracts by Whistler, on pages 17, 18, 41, 94, 103, 109.) George Innes was the greatest American landscapist next to Whistler. He was indeed an artist. His work in studios was very independent. He studied nature closely, sympathetically, and was wonderful in feeling. He was emotional when contemplating nature. In his early life he suffered from epilepsy, but grew stronger through later years. Read Hafen's tribute to George Innes, in his letter. Innes died several years ago, but as he becomes better known, he will be recognized and given his right place among the greatest Americans. George Innes was a dreamer, but his visions were in the highest, loftiest realms of the beautiful. No American should be ignorant of Whistler, Sargeant, Innes. Winslow, Homer, Brush and Woodbury, and no Utahn should neglect to learn something of John Hafen, John Fairbanks, J. T. Harwood, Edwin Evans, Cyrus Dallin, Mary Teasdel, Rost Hartwell, M. M. Young, Lee Greene Richards, Donald Beauregard, A. B. Wright, Wesley Browning, Myra Sawyer, and those noble pioneers, Weggeland. Ottinger and a score of others whose names could well be added. OCTOBER CONFERENCE. The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall October 2, 3, 1914, President Emmeline B. Wells presiding. At the opening session a brief and affectionate address of welcome was made by President Emmeline B. Wells. The response was given in the same gentle spirit by Elizabeth W. Layton of St. Joseph Stake. An eloquent address concerning her new duties was made by the new General Board member, Sarah Eddington.  Four Stake reports were made all very encouraging as  RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 11  follows: Shelley Stake, by Mary F. Freeman; Blackfoot, by Juliet Blackburn Summit, by Sarah Lewis Hyrum, by Louisa; ; Allen; Malad, by Elizabeth Jones; Morgan, by Nettie Durrant; Nebo, by Eliza Dixon; North San Pete, by Wilhelmina Erickson; Josepa, by Ellen K. Makaiau (interpreted by Ellen F. Genison. This last report, being given in Hawaiian by our native Relief Society President at Josepa, was both striking and ' interesting. At the second session. Friday, at 2 p.m. Relief Society Insurance was clearly and simply explained by Elder John D. Giles, who impressed upon the sisters the value and importance of the new movement. The report of the International Council at Rome was given by Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams. Susa Young Gates spoke on the "Mormon" Women in Europe. It is hoped that we shall have these reports published in full in our magazine in one of the early numbers. The address by Ida S. Dusenberry on "Simplicity, Sympathy, Charity." was feelingly given, and the beautiful sentiments found an echo in the listeners' hearts. Officers' meeting at 10 on Saturday, Oct. 3rd, was held in the Assembly Hall of the Bishop's building. Reports of the following missions were given Northwestern States, by Sister: Margaret Sloan. Six branches. Anaconda, Tacoma, Portland, Spokane, Vancouver, Butte. This mission is newer than the others, but is already in a most fluorishing and prosperous condition. The Bulletins are freely used, and good results have followed all efforts put forth, forth. Northern States, by Sister Mary E. Ellsworth. Five branches. Winnipeg. Milwaukee, Rock Island, Bloomington, Chicago. Central States, by Sister Lottie Beninion. Both of these two last reports were extremely interesting and instructive. The Bulletins are eagerly sought for in the mission Relief Society work, the lessons on genealogy being the best material ever used in those missions to attract and hold the interest of strangers as well as new converts. The Relief Society branches in the Northwestern mission has twenty-two mothers' classes studying genealogy and ethics. Sewing for the poor as well as mending for the elders is also a feature of their work. In the Central States mission there are ten branches, one in Texas,  consisting of 300 members probably the largest single Relief Society in the world. The average attendance is also large, being 85 per cent of the membership. Many of these sisters travel four and five miles to attend meetings, but few are absent. 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams spoke, of the New Report Blanks. She said: "The blanks have been arranged and would be ready to mail out to the branches of the Society in November. The work has been done on these blanks by a committee from the General Board and it has been tedious. We were assisted by Brother John Wells of the Presiding Bishop's Office." Sister Williams also reported that the Outline Guide Work will be continued along the same lines next year as we followed this season. In regard to the annual dues, she said that in accordance with the decision made in April, 1914, annual dues are to be paid January 1st, each year. She spoke of our new magazine. Said the Exponent had ceased publication and the Bulletin was temporary. Now, we are to have a magazine to be known as the Relief Society Magazine. It will consist of forty-eight pages, will be illustrated, and the price will be one dollar a year. It will be issued monthly. It is necessaary to get in subscriptions as soon as possible in order to determine the number to be published. We shall expect the stakes to send us as many subscribers as we sent out Bulletins, and as many more as their enterprise and generosity can secure. The circular on the magazine was read. It will be sent to all the stakes. Remarks were made by President Emmeline B. Wells, who asked the sisters to pray for peace, and for mothers and children who are bereft. She invoked blessings on all present. Closing session, Saturday afternoon. The first address was "Attitude of Utah Woman to Peace," by Emily S. Richards. The points dwelt upon were: Women as a rule are for peace. They bear the brunt of war. All men and women should unite to prevent war, and to establish an international commission of peace. Sister Richards was listened to with marked attention, and her words were timely and interesting. The inspiring remarks by President Joseph F. Smith will appear in our January Magazine. President Wells' remarks appear in this Bulletin. A few timely remarks were made by Sister Emma A. Empey, explanatory of the nurse class work. President Louisa Benson of Oneida Stake moved a vote of thanks to the musical director, Lizzie Thomas Edward, to the organist, Edna Coray, to the members of the choir and to all soloists, for the beautiful music furnished during the conference. Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams read affectionate sentiments from the members of the Relief Society choir, expressing their pleasure and gratitude for the work done by the choir leader. Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward, from the members of the choir, and the organist. Sister Edna Coray. After which two exquisite bouquets of flowers were presented to these sisters. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 13 The music furnished throughout the whole conference was of a high character and pleased all with the lovely strains and sounds, both of instrument and voice. The following is the program: Soprano Solo Lizzie T. Edward Organ Solo Edna Coray Soprano Solo Pearl Larson Solo Willard Weihe, accompanied by John J. McClellan Chorus L. D. S. U. Quartette Selection Schettler Trio Baritone Solo Alvin Keddington Tenor Solo Alfred Best Contralto Solo Evangeline Thomas Congregational hymns and special choral numbers, the most beautiful being the ''Bridal of the Birds." and the "Pilgrim's Chorus," were interspersed throughout the meetings. Three genealogical classes were held at 4:30 p. m. Friday and Saturday, and Monday, at which there was a large and appreciative attendance. These classes were taught by Elder Nephi Anderson, assisted by Sisters Susa Young Gates and Lillian Cameron. The subject matter was a Review of Family Group Forms. Numbering, Heirship and Relationship. There was a general feeling that the lessons for the coming year should cover the same ground taken in the past year, in a slower and more detailed manner. A few stakes, notably Ogden and Utah, have completely finished the outline already given, and are ready for new material. But the rest of the stakes desire more time and more careful consideration of the lessons already given. A meeting of stake officers was held on Tuesday at noon to discuss our new insurance work. It was decided to send out a qualified agent from this board to assist the stakes in getting this work started. It was urged upon all the stakes to appoint insurance agents at once in every town, at least, so that they may be prepared to go to work at once. If our agent is desired Stake Presidents should acquaint the General Secretary with that fact. The usual noon luncheon was served and the same fellowship, and sweet comradeship that marks all Relief Society work, attended every meeting and parting of this splendid conference of October, 1914. President Emmeline B. Wells was in her happiest mood, and she was ably assisted and sustained by her counsellors and the members of the board. We had the President of the Church with us. and he was filled with the spirit of inspiration and encouragement. All in all, it was a conference long to be remembered. AMY BROWN LYMAN, General Secretary.  14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN NOTICE. All Presidents of Stakes are urged to take up the subscriptions to our new magazine at once. "We have the full subscriptions of only two states as yet, and it is vitally important that we should have every Stake fully represented and in our office as soon as possible. Please take up this work, dear fellow workers, in the genuine whole-hearted manner that all our Relief Society work is done. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. All communications relating to the general business of the Relief Society should be addressed to the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Bro'wn Lyman, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. All communications containing membership dues or general funds should be sent to the General Treasure^, Mrs. Emma A. Empey, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. All communications containing subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine or relating in any way to the business of the Magazine should be addressed to Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Business Manager Relief Society Magazine, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. All literary contributions should be addressed to Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Editor, room. 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. RELIEF SOCIETY AND YOUNG LADIES MUTUAL CAFETERIA. We are pleased to note the fact that the Salt Lake City Stake Relief Society and Young Ladies Mutual Improvement have joined in a commendable effort to provide a quiet cafeteria for busy women at the Old Social Hall on State street,  where excellent food, well cooked the writers bear testimony to the cooking  is served daily. Prices low, five and tea cents only for each article. Rest rooms above in the Art Gallery are also provided. Success to the cafeteria. OUR ADVERTISERS. We desire to call the intimate attention of all our readers  and they number tens of thousands to the business firms which have advertised in these pages. We have sought the patronage of the best firms only, the highest class dealers in this community. Those who have stood loyally by the Relief Society should in turn receive the loyal and hearty support of every member of the Society. We urge this upon one and all. THE RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN COMMITTEE. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 15 RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE SCHOOL The Presidency and General Board of the Relief Society announce that the next class in the Relief Society Nurse School will commence Monday, September 21, 1914, and continue eight months, in Salt Lake City. Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will be the instructor. It is requested that the Stake Presidents will at once consult with their Ward Presidents for the purpose of selecting intelligent and energetic women of suitable age and of good moral character to take this course in nursing. We sincerely trust that members of the Relief Society realize the value and necessity of this Course of Nursing, as it is a fact that 95 per cent of the inhabitants of our country cannot afford to pay the price of a graduate, hospital nurse, and yet our sick of the masses should receive trained and skilful nursing. We can also recommend this course in nursing as a much needed part of every young woman's education. The tuition for the course will be $20.00, and it is expected that the Relief Society organization in each ward will pay the tuition fee for their representatives. However, any student who wishes to pay the tuition herself may do so, if she accept and sign the Relief Society Nurse Contract, is willing to as published in the July Bulletin, page 14. For full particulars write Clarissa S. Williams, 37 North West Temple, or Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, 79 C street. Salt Lake THOMAS HULL ELI.JAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. Relief Societies' Headquarters For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods. Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request. CUTLER^S, 36 Main Street SCRACE'S BAKERY and CAFE Fresh Bread, Cakes and Pastry Daily Headquarters for Relief Society Visitors. A GOOD PLACE TO EAT. E. L. SAUNDERS, Prop. Phone Wasatch 1230. 24 So. MAIN STREET THE I UTAH STATE It is the our NATIONAL pose of this BANK SALT LAKE CITY Bank at all UTAH times to ren= der helpful ser= vice, and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. Utah State National Bank Your Account is Cordially Invited. JOS. F. SMITH, Pres. ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST" Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Delivery Phones:. Wasatch 32233224 Two Packages One Quality No housewife should style herself particular or exacting who doesnt use Jensens Butters. "Four-in-One" "Blanchard" ONE PRINT W. N. Williams, Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable. Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Qo=Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207. 67 South Temple Street Salt Lake City Utah A Grafonola for the Ward $25 Upward $10 Cash $5 a Mo. Play over in your Ward House records of the singing of the famous TABERNACLE CHOIR Also any records you want for any occasion  dance  popular sacred, etc. Older than the State of Utah Wrtte for Catalogue and FREE calendar. When you buy a Diamond of McCONAHAY you don't spend the money you save it. 64 MAIN ST., Salt Lake City. $22 and up We are prepared to supply you with all books recommended for RELIEF SOCIETY CLASSES ALSO ALL RELIEF SOCIETY BLANKS, BLANK BOOKS and RECORDS DESEBET NEWS BOOK STORE LEADING BOOK CONCERN No. 6 MAIN STREET ASK YOUR DEALER FOR Z. C. M. I. School Shoes They keep the Children's feet warm and dry. Our RANCHO SHOES Will stand the ammonia of the barn yard. "MOUNTAIN" and "THE LEADER" Overalls don't rip. Star Printing Company 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake City, Utah Marion Banks FINE Charlton's Millinery CLOAK & SUIT CO. Up=to=Date Styles AT REASONABLE PRICES for Ladies and GOODWIN CORSETS Misses. This ad. will redeem 10 per cent on purchase at regular price Moved to 242 South Main Street LIFE INSURANCE and the RELIEF SOCIETY Two Great Institutions working in the same great cause  the service and comfort of humanity. Life Insurance provides against poverty and want and distress. If more of our people provided life insurance for their families the burden of the Relief Society workers would be made lighter. JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N. STOHL 1st. Vice President. 2nd. Vice Pres. & Mgr The Beneficial Has Insurance of over $14,000,000 JOEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building DC. W. NIBLEY RICHARD.> VOUNG Salt Lake City, Utah. Member Ex. Com. . Counsel Beneficial Agents everywhere will gladly explain how insurance ''Western Insurance helps you to save, at the same time it is protecting your family' for Western People'' 