[Vol56 | January | Magazine Page 65 | PDF Page 66]

--- PAGE 65 (PDF page 66) ---
Lesson Department

The poet Milton wrote, "They also serve who only stand and wait"—applicable whereenduring patience may be the needed virtue; a virtue manifest in the faithful soldier, waiting and watching through the long hours of the night, or the captain of a ship, who, not thinking of himself, waits until all passengers are safe in the lifeboats; a virtue which was not evidenced in the undependable watchman on the tower. (D&C 101:44-55.)

NOT WHERE, BUT HOW

Question for Discussion

If those who follow also serve, what is the human denominator which makes a difference in the quality of service?

Much less, perhaps, has been written about the requirements for effective "followership" than about the qualifications of those who lead. Yet, "followership" also is important, and there is a factor in the rendering of service, wherever that service may be, which may make the difference between the partial or total success of any enterprise. It also may make the difference between personal growth and complacent mediocrity. Willingness to accept counsel, to do whatever one is called to do in the service of the Lord, as opposed to reluctant, half-hearted compliance, may be the differing factor. Who thus, it is not where one serves, but the spirit and diligence with which one serves that are all important. Nor is there any place, in the service to the Church, for honor-seeking or an attitude of jealousy, on the part of either those who lead or those who follow.

For Class Consideration

Discuss the importance of attitude in the service a woman renders (a) her family; (b) her friends; (c) any position she may hold in the Church.

Only when wisely directed leadership is matched by wise and dedicated "followership" may we hope for completely successful results. The application of this principle is clearly evident in the successful operation of a ward or stake Relief Society.

The message of the beautifully expressed address commemorating the coming of the Mormon pioneers 100 years before, delivered by President Clark at a session of the General Conference of the Church, October 5, 1947, is relevant to this statement.

Speaking of those who were of that "great trek, the mightiest trek that history records since Israel's flight from Egypt," President Clark pays impressive and humble tribute to:

". . . especially to the meekest and lowliest of them, those great souls, majestic in the simplicity of their faith and in their living testimony of the truth of the restored gospel, to those souls in name unknown, unremembered, unhonored in the pages of history, but lovingly revered round the hearthstones of their children and their children's children who pass down from generation to generation the story of their faith and their mighty works, and the righteousness of their lives and living, those souls who worked and worked, and prayed and followed, and wrought so gloriously.

"I would not take away one word of praise or gratitude, honor

69