[Vol56 | January | Magazine Page 7 | PDF Page 8]

--- PAGE 7 (PDF page 8) ---
Our Children—"The Loveliest Flowers From God's Own Garden"

tell you what a youngster said to his mother when Sister Smith and I attended a stake conference in New York. Sister Smith asked all present to tell their mothers and fathers that they loved them, and for the parents not to push them away, when they came to tell them. This little child went to his mother and said, "Mama, I love you, and don't you push me away, like the good lady said." With whom rests the fault? The desire to help is born with every normal child and parents have no right to complain. There can be no such thing as household drudgery when all assist with the tasks, and through the association in the discharge of these duties comes the sweetest companionship that can be experienced.

DEVELOP SYMPATHETIC UNDERSTANDING

If I had to suggest one thing which I think we as parents are most lacking, it would be a sympathetic understanding of our children. Live with the children; follow their paths, try with them to read "books in the running brooks/Sermons in stones and good in every thing." Teach them that the flower of youth never looks so lovely as when it bends to the sun of righteousness. Know everything that aims at the interest of the children, be a good sport with them, remembering always in the beautiful words of Wordsworth, "A child, more than all other gifts that earth can offer to declining man, brings hope with it and forward looking thoughts."

As I look back on the history of our people, I see a past that is full of glory; looking ahead, I see a future full of promise. We have faith that we shall not prove false to the memories of the men and women of the mighty past. They did their work and left us the splendid heritage which we now enjoy. Our highest aim is through the medium of loving companionship, to train our children to appreciate their inheritance. We may thus, in our turn, have the assured confidence that we shall be able to leave this heritage unwasted and enlarged to our children's children. I am sure if we teach these things to the sisters of the Relief Society we shall see the fruit of companionship of parents and children, and what a great joy we will have in teaching these things that the Lord feels so important because he has stated, that we as parents will be held responsible if we fail in our teaching the gospel truths to our children. President McKay said:

I know of no better way to bring about harmony in the home, in the neighborhood, in organizations, peace in our country, and in the world than for every man and woman to try to eliminate from his or her heart the enemies of harmony and peace such as hatred, selfishness, greed, animosity, and envy.

Now may the Lord bless you good sisters as you go into your different stakes and wards, and may his Spirit be with you and guide, guard, and protect you in the service of our Master, and I leave my blessing with you, and I am sure that President McKay would like me to express his love for you, also, and I ask these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen.

7