[Vol56 | April | Magazine Page 250 | PDF Page 250]

--- PAGE 250 (PDF page 250) ---
From Near and Far

Speaking as a nonmember of the Church, I would like to pay tribute to The Relief Society Magazine. It certainly meets the spiritual and inspirational needs of women the world over. May I tell you as a wife and mother I have grown in skills and knowledge. Most important, with a humble heart, I can bear testimony that every issue bears witness of "By their fruits ye shall know them."
                                                           Marian Pappas, Binghamton, New York

I have been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine since I can't remember when, and I read it during my growing-up years. My mother, a widow with nine children to support, still found enough money to subscribe for the Magazine. I read the Magazine almost through before I put it down. I especially love the poetry. I took nurse training before my marriage, and the lessons on nursing have helped me to review my training so that I can better care for my children.
                                                           Bertha Rollins, Selma, Alabama

Each year I have become more thrilled with the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. In the January 1969 issue, the article on the Giant System in genealogical research is greatly appreciated. I have been privileged to work as an officer and teacher in the Relief Society at various times, as well as in callings in genealogical work. There is a great need for Relief Society sisters to be more mindful of their "living" dead. Too often this work is set aside for a future day which does not arrive.
                                                           Lucille M. Struiksma, San Diego, California

May I express my appreciation for the lovely Relief Society Magazine. The stories and articles, as well as the lessons, are an inspiration to me. I read the entire Magazine from cover to cover.
                                                           Lucille Tilton, St. David, Arizona

I am not a member of your Church, and yet I receive The Relief Society Magazine. It was a gift to me from one of your nicest members—Marilyn Grant. She is a delightful person, warmhearted, devout, honest, and kind. When, out of her kindness, Marilyn made me a present of a subscription, I found the Magazine to represent much the same values and qualities my friend has. As I read the Magazine and put it away, it refuses to remain away. I find myself reflecting on some of its lessons and modifying my behavior along some of its tenets. My dear friend is away now as she has been for two years and will be for two more—for her husband's work has taken the family to Holland. However, each month when I receive my Magazine, it is almost as if Marilyn had returned for a visit. Thank you for this publication.
                                                           Carolyn Orr, Campbell, California

It is hard to find a Magazine with the good in it that The Relief Society Magazine has. I belong to the Lutheran Church, but am happy to read material of such high quality, and I will pass the Magazine along to be read by others.
                                                           Miss Alice Tribham, Galesburg, Illinois

I am one of your long-time readers, as well as a member of Relief Society for more than fifty years. I enjoy the Magazine in my leisure hours, which are many now. I think the Magazine does a great service for women, and I send wishes for many more years of service.
                                                           Magdalene C. Stephens, Salt Lake City, Utah

I greatly enjoyed the story in the February Magazine "A Day for Diddle Daddling," by Alice Morrey Bailey. There is naturalness and reality in this story and effective representation of characters. Love to you, Alice, and all your "diddle-daddling" friends.
                                                           Rosa Lee Lloyd, Salt Lake City, Utah

242