[Vol56 | September | Magazine Page 681 | PDF Page 685]

--- PAGE 681 (PDF page 685) ---
Gramps' Best Behavior

The afternoon simply flew; she was glad of that. And surely I haven't even had time to think about David's grandfather, Naomi thought as she sat down on the davenport to relax and await her guests. I just hope Gramps and he will like each other.

She didn't have long to wonder. At a quarter to five she saw them turn in at the driveway and stop. She hurried out the door to find Gramps already waiting for them.

"Hello," Myra called happily. "How are you?"

Gramps opened the car door. "Fit as a fiddle. This must be..."

"This is David Stewart, and his grandfather—and this is Gramps and my mother," she said.

"Well, now it's mighty nice meeting you both," Gramps said, extending his hand.

"We're delighted to meet you. Please come in," Naomi said cordially.

"I hope you don't mind my tagging along with David and Myra," Mr. Stewart remarked as he crawled from the car.

"I should say not," Gramps cut in before she had a chance to answer. "Understand you're a history teacher?"

"Yes."

"History's my favorite subject." He chuckled. "I've lived through quite a speck of it."

"You and Grandfather will hit it off famously," David said. "If it's history, Grandfather is interested."

Just for an instant, Naomi saw a frightened look in Myra's eyes, but she quickly recovered and smiled at David.

"Shall we go in?"

"It seems like yesterday Myra was a little tyke, and I carried her around piggy-back. Now here she is a young lady." Gramps volunteered on the way to the house.

"Oh, Gramps," Myra said, her face coloring slightly. "It's really been quite awhile."

"I guess it just seems that way to an old man," he said sadly.

She slipped her arms around his waist. "It's nice to remember, Gramps. And it was fun," she whispered.

Naomi smiled. How quickly she responds when she thinks she has hurt him!

"My father-in-law will show you two to your room," Naomi said, "and Myra can share my room. I'll help you with your load, dear."

"Might as well put your bags in your room now," Gramps said, leading the way to the stairs. "Right this way."

Naomi turned to her daughter when they were alone in their room. "I hope you understand. Gramps wouldn't miss seeing you, and he wanted so much to meet David—I couldn't break his heart."

Myra sat down. "I know, Mom. I felt like a traitor asking such a thing. I just don't want anything to go wrong."

"Nothing will. You are the last person in the world Gramps would want to hurt."

"I know that, Mother. He wouldn't mean to, but I keep remembering—Darrel Murch."

"That was several years ago. You didn't really care for him, did you?"

657