[Vol56 | November | Magazine Page 879 | PDF Page 880]

--- PAGE 879 (PDF page 880) ---
**Heart Room for Home**

It happened this way. You know how I want sterling silver and how expensive it is. Well, I was passing this loan place down on Broadway and here was a sign in the window about sterling silver. I went in and it was fabulous. Everything, guns, guitars, jewelry, sewing machines—all jumbled in together. I asked about the silver and he showed it to me—some heavy Swedish stuff with a crude design, and I was disappointed. It was not a pattern I could use at all, and there were only eight place settings. Getting the other four would be practically impossible, so I was disappointed and about to go. Then I asked him if he had any more sterling and he said some, but not full sets of anything, and he took me upstairs. He had lots of odds and ends and I looked at them all. Then I saw this!"

It was a very ornate pattern built around a solid shaft, and so tarnished it was hard to appreciate it. Rosemary had raced for the silver polish and was at work on one of the forks. They all watched with intense interest as the beauty of the piece came forth, the satin finish of the shaft, the ornate pattern jumping to bold relief by her polishing of the high parts.

"You leave the tarnish in the low parts," explained Rosemary. "It adds richness."

"But there are only three place settings and a few pieces," objected Mary Ann.

"The serving spoons and the sugar shell and the butter server," said Rosemary. "But it is a good American company and a retired pattern. I can add to it indefinitely, and I got it for less than half price! I'm going to every loan place in town."

"It is brand new," observed Mary Ann. "Some little bride registered for it, and when hard times came she had to pawn it and then couldn't redeem it."

"I don't want to think of that," said Rosemary. "It was meant for me, and I'll have more of it. Now, Tommy, what's with you?"

Mary Ann hadn't noticed until then how subdued Tommy seemed.

"I met my girl and I know her name. It is Lisbeth King."

"Classy!" pronounced Rosemary. "How did you meet her?"

"She dropped a book leaving class and I picked it up for her. It was the first time she looked into my eyes. She said thank you—very warmly."

"And then?" prompted Rosemary.

"And then I made a dumb fool of myself. I said: 'Will you marry me?'"

"You didn't! Any girl would think that terribly romantic. What did she say?"

"She turned all iceberg. If looks could kill! She said: 'I beg your pardon!' like a duchess."

"Did you expect her to gush? At least she is no pick-up."

"It's worse than that. She's engaged. She has a diamond the size of a hen's egg."

"Oh, Tommy! I'm sorry. Too bad for it to end that way!"

It was a relief to Tommy's parents, listening in. Maybe next time Tommy would go at it a little more rationally, now that he had done a right-about

845