[Vol56 | July | Magazine Page 492 | PDF Page 492]

--- PAGE 492 (PDF page 492) ---
June 1969

As pointed out a year ago, no individual or family can exist in isolation. In many significant ways a woman's first responsibility is to herself and to her family, but she also needs to function meaningfully with other people—as a friend and neighbor, as a Church worker, and as a citizen of the community, the nation, and the world. Moreover, in all of these things she needs to find a happy balance between work, recreation, relaxation, spirituality, and cultural fulfillment.

Each lesson in the Cultural Refinement program for this year will focus upon community involvement that is meaningful, wholesome, and well balanced. As in former years, each section of the text will include more material than can easily be covered in a single lesson. This is done intentionally so that each class leader may choose those selections that she responds to with enthusiasm and that she feels are especially appropriate to her group. It is far better to cover one or two selections thoroughly and in such a way that they really touch the lives of the women than it is to cover all of the selections hastily and superficially. Any selections not used in the Relief Society lessons are still available for excellent enrichment readings within the home.

The year ahead will be the fourth year in which music and painting are used to supplement the literature in each lesson. Once again we encourage class leaders to harmonize the music and art as fully as possible into the lesson goals for each month rather than use them merely as decoration. We know that this is difficult, but the challenge can be met with careful advance planning, i.e., by careful allocation of time, by using them either as introductory or concluding material, or by using them as special assignments.

Once again we also urge class leaders to get as many Relief Society sisters as possible personally involved in each lesson. If the lesson is simply a monthly presentation by the teacher to women who have not read the material and do not participate in experiencing it, the lesson probably will not be very meaningful. All Relief Society sisters should be encouraged to read the selections in advance, participate in presenting them or at least in discussing them, and then take them home to their husbands and children for family enrichment. With this approach each lesson can be deeply meaningful and permanently useful.

The overall theme for the year is "Woman's fulfillment through service to others and involvement in the lives of others" and the outline of individual lessons is as follows:

Lesson 1—The Meaning of Freedom

"My soul standeth fast in that liberty in the which God hath made us free."—Book of Mormon (Al. 61:9.)

Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1969
Southern Hemisphere: March 1970

Objective: To demonstrate that the free agency of man—his right to choose—is at the base of all meaningful liberty.

476