[Vol56 | October | Magazine Page 785 | PDF Page 790]

--- PAGE 785 (PDF page 790) ---
Make Your Own

Baby's Book

Grace Diane Jessen

Every child treasures the stories, the pictures and mementos that tell of him alone. When these bits are bound together under one cover that can expand with the years as he grows and learns, they become doubly precious. You can make a book for your baby (or a grandchild or a friend) that will be more cherished than any book purchased in a store, because a bit of your love, your personality and creativity will remain stamped onto the pages forever. This book will be less expensive in terms of dollars and cents, but more precious to the one who receives it because you make it just for him.

The following directions tell how you can make a basic baby book. You may wish to make many changes or additions to fit your own ideas, and, of course, many pages can be added as the child grows.

MATERIALS NEEDED

First, purchase these materials from genealogical supplies:

One inexpensive "Book of Remembrance" cover. (These cost about 50¢ and are available in different colors and designs.)
One personal record page
One personal health record page
One pedigree chart
One portrait pedigree chart
One dozen sheets of plain heavy bond paper. (This has prepunched holes as do the other genealogy pages.)

Assemble your old greeting cards, appropriate pictures from magazines, a few packages of baby and flower seals, or a package of baby gift wrapping paper. These items can be used as you desire to add decorative touches to the pages or you may prefer to draw your own if you have artistic talent. You will need a fine felt-tip pen in a bright color for writing page headings and also a bottle of glue or rubber cement.

PROCEDURE

Begin by using one of the heavy plain sheets for the inside cover page. Use a stencil or write as neatly as possible "This is the story of" followed by a blank line if the book is for an unnamed baby. Write in the name in large, attractive letters if you know it. Trim the page with flowers, birds, pictures, or whatever appeals to you, but make the name the focal point of the page.

Page two is the personal record sheet, trimmed, if desired, with tiny flowers in the upper margin. Under the heading "Important Events," mother may wish to write such details of baby's birth as his measurements, attending physician, and time of arrival.

Page three is the personal health record which may be decorated similar to page two.

758