[Vol56 | February | Magazine Page 108 | PDF Page 109]

--- PAGE 108 (PDF page 109) ---
A Day for Diddle-Daddling

back, but Etta had stirred us up with shame and we kept on. I made a little bet with myself that I would finish the dishes before Mama came back with the eggs, and I won, even though washing dishes for twelve people, counting Papa, Johnny, and Tom, and the three hired men took just hours and hours. On top of that there was the cream separator and the milk buckets and the strainer, and all of them had to be scalded.

Janie wanted me to finish because she didn't want to mop the kitchen floor until I quit spilling dishwater on it, and I didn't blame her. We were at that time using separated milk to mop the floors because Mama had read somewhere that it made them shine, and it did, but it made the mop sour, so I was glad when she gave up that idea.

It was nearly noon when Mama got back to the house, and when she came in she was only to get a rag to be dipped in bluing to mark the thirteen eggs she had in her apron.

"That old hen wants to set," she said by way of explanation, "and all I could find was enough eggs." Mama always used thirteen because if one spoiled she would have a dozen chicks. "What day is it today?"

We got the calendar and figured out when the hen would come off in twenty-one days, but while Mama was fishing in the rag bag to find a scrap she could spare for the bluing, she ran onto something else.

"Well, I never!" she said. "Here is that crepe de chine I lost last summer."

She pulled it out, somewhat worse for the wrinkling, but it was pretty for all that. "I meant to make me a waist out of it, but there was too much and I didn't want to spoil it." She looked at the pink pile in her hands, then measured it off from her fingertips to her nose. "I do believe there's enough for your Fourth dress in this piece, Callie."

I stood stock-still, afraid she would change her mind.

"What's the matter, Callie? Don't you like it? It will be beautiful when it is pressed."

"Mama, I love it," I breathed.

"Well, all right, then. Here, Jennie. You mark these eggs and then you and Lucy go out and set the hen."

"Mama, I'm scared. She'll peck at me. I never set a hen before."

"Well, you can't learn any younger," said Mama. "Just pick her up by her back."

She didn't even notice that Jennie had turned white as a sheet. I would have offered to show Jennie how, except that I was afraid I would break the spell and Mama would think of something else to use that material for. "Shall I get the catalogue?" I asked.

"Yes, do," she said. "We'll pick out a pattern. I do hope we have some thread to match it."

We got the newspapers out and looked through the catalogue. The prettiest dress had puffed sleeves and a scalloped overskirt and a sash. "Oh, Mama! That's the dress I want. Can you make that one?"

Mama considered it for just ages, I thought. "I think so," she finally said. "If we use some batiste for the top part of the under-

109