[Vol56 | June | Magazine Page 427 | PDF Page 432]

--- PAGE 427 (PDF page 432) ---
June 1969

Grady, who had advocated that drastic move, and the little scene played out in the parlor which had moved her and Kim to take his father.

"I'd take you in a minute, Dad," Emily had said. "But you know how Victor is—never wants me out of his sight a minute. Life would be miserable for you with us."

"I didn't say—I didn't want. . . ." began her father, and Mary Ann had ached with the trembling anguish in his voice. She had been sitting beside the window, ostensibly an in-law aloof from the thinly veiled battle that raged back and forth in the room, with Father Freeman the unhappy subject of this little, turgid knot of indecision. Up to then Mary Ann had loved both her two sisters by marriage, but this conversation was bringing out traits which were anything but pretty. Victor Dodd had always seemed to Mary Ann to be a nice, uncomplicated, unselfish man.

"I would, too, Dad, but you know I have my own job," said Francine.

Kim and Mary Ann were overdue back to their own jobs, of course.

"The whole answer is to sell this place," pursued Emily reasonably. "And put Dad into a rest home."

"No! No," protested her father. "I can get along. As soon as I am well, I can. . . ."

"From a broken hip?" asked Francine. "I'm not trying to be cruel, Dad, only realistic. I agree with Emily. The place must be sold. There are many good homes with wonderful care, people

of your own age as friends, but we'd have to sell the place to keep you there."

"No! No!" Father Freeman was moaning, shaking his head back and forth in negation.

"How can you think of such a thing, France? Emily?" said Kim, echoing the feelings in Mary Ann's heart.

That sweet place! Every red stone of it, every square inch of its building was a product of Father Freeman's loving hands, the blaze along the rock wall, the walk he had built to see there when he had brought his bride to the thick-walled stone house he had built, the weeping willow dipping its long slim fingers in the bright little brook that bubbled from the spring against the hill back of the house, into and out of the pond where even now the ducks were diving in pastoral peace.

Dad was more than a little artistic the way he had landscaped the place, with the flagstone walks winding gracefully under the trees and over the arched bridge, by the rustic bench. The stream circled a knoll, with fruit trees, all prize stock, to the garden behind, the corrals out of sight and the acre of lucerne, and the meadow beyond.

It had always been a show place from the first crocuses and violets as early as February, through rose time with its bowers and arches, until the last cushion mum which bordered the walks and bloomed from July to October. The children thought it a fairyland. Sell this place? There had been a little silence, then, and an apple thudded

416