[Vol56 | February | Magazine Page 133 | PDF Page 134]

--- PAGE 133 (PDF page 134) ---
Fort Worth Stake (Texas) Singing Mothers Join Large
Group for "Hemisfair Performance" August 9-10, 1968

Lucille W. Molen, President, Fort Worth Stake Relief Society, reports: "Thirty- three sisters from the Fort Worth Stake joined the large combined group of Singing Mothers who performed at the 'Hemisfair in San Antonio, Texas, in August. The sisters began rehearsing in April for this event. Margaret Porter directed the group, and they were accompanied by Joan Wooley. Director of the combined groups was Montess A. Anderegg.

The sisters expressed appreciation for this opportunity and felt that it was a worthwhile and inspirational activity.

"Our stake was organized last September and we are working very diligently to get the Magazine in each home. We love it dearly."


Western States Mission Relief Society Presidency
Holds Conference

Left to right: Mildred Rose, Education Counselor, Western States Mission Relief Society; Edith Hall, Homemaking Counselor; Carrell Thorpe, President; Arline M. Scott, Supervisor; Janet Luke, Secretary.

Sister Scott reports: "Each year the presidency of the Western States Mission Relief Society visits each of the five districts in the mission and holds a conference on Saturday and Sunday. This year, as in previous years, instructions concerning Relief Society procedures were discussed. District fashion shows were held, and many items which could be used for bazaars were demonstrated.

"A Singing Mothers chorus from each district sang at the conferences, and reviews of the past year's work were given by the officers of the district boards.

"We feel that these conferences benefit Relief Society in the mission very much, and we enjoyed them also."


Italian Mission Holds First Relief Society Conferences
May 11, 18, June 8, 1968

Members of the Italian Mission Relief Society Presidency, left to right: Chiara Banchetti, First Counselor; Wanda Duns, Supervisor; Marilee Swift, President; Joanne Gerstner, Second Counselor.

Sister Duns reports: "Four Relief Society conferences were held in the Italian Mission to insure that all sisters of Relief Society would be able to attend at least one session. The sessions were held in Palmero, Sicily; Milan; Pisa; and Taranto.

"President Duns and I were able to attend three of these meetings and address the sisters. Approximately twenty sisters attended each meeting.

"At each conference there was a discussion period, a luncheon prepared by the mission Relief Society presidency, addresses by the presidency, a demonstration of homemaking meeting ideas, and a bazaar featuring the lovely handwork of the Italian sisters."