[Vol56 | January | Magazine Page 5 | PDF Page 6]

--- PAGE 5 (PDF page 6) ---
Our Children—"The Loveliest Flowers From God's Own Garden"

trees—barren and unfruitful." While some children will go wrong in spite of the best training, and some will go right even where their surroundings are most unfortunate, nevertheless, an immense amount depends upon the family training, and just through this family training comes the companionship of which we are speaking.

WHAT DO THEY MEAN TO US?

If I were to put the question here today, there is not a shadow of doubt what the answer would be—"What do our children mean to us?" Our children—"The loveliest flowers from God's own garden," as one old writer expressed it. The attitude of our Heavenly Father toward this great privilege of parenthood is shown in the story of Abraham, upon whose head was pronounced the blessing of all worldly wealth and honor, but the triumph of triumphs, the crowning blessing, was the promise of a posterity numerous as the sands upon the seashore.

From the inspiration of the gospel we draw the impelling motives for our aims in life, and we get a proper sense of values if we live up to its teachings. This has taught us the real significance of the question: "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" (Mark 8:36.) What doth it profit us, though we gain the whole world, and lose the souls of our children? So you mothers see that this privilege of parenthood, this blessing of children, carries with it the gravest responsibility of life. Our duty is hard, our tasks are great, but greatest of all is our reward.

Into the woman's keeping is committed the destiny of the generations to come after us. Surely she who can train her sons and daughters is thrice fortunate among them, and if she has succeeded so far, she has accomplished it through the establishment of a companionship with her children. It can never be done through any other medium.

WHAT OF THE WORLD?

Since the world began there have been only two classes of people, one who declares that our times are the worst the world has seen, and another one which claims our times are the best. I believe we as a people belong to the latter class, with some reservations. Surely we appreciate our blessings, but we are not blind enough not to see that there are many great and real dangers to be reckoned with, and those which concern us more than all others combined have to do with our children. The only real protection or adequate defense can be afforded by the home and its influences. But there is no denying the fact that some of our young people, especially girls, have gone in for crime professionally, on a scale extensive enough to be alarming. There is at least one sure cure: training the girls in the home. Girls are not trained in the home today as they used to be. A girl should be taught some useful household tasks, or, at the very least, given by teaching and good example, a good standard of morals. Many girls of

5