Volume 51 Number 7 1964, a! Lessons for October | "ea 'relies society ' Fora CGromdehild Dorothy J. Roberts You cannot hear the rhythmic hum Of the ancient spinning wheel that turned Nor see the smile shaping her face As the homemade tallow candles burned. But you see triumph on her brow, The head erect, the well-brushed hair, Features molded by her faith. Even the work-worn hands are fair. Fearlessly she faced the day, Trusting the one source of supply Given by a mightier hand For her own industry to ply. Keep this image in her mind; This is beauty faith has made Out of substance such as we, When the willing hand obeyed. Keep her memory in repair, Forever potent as a seed; Save some fragment of her strength For the moment of your need. 
The Cover: J State Capitol, Salt Lake City, Utah Transparency by Gordon Warner Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: @ Spinning the Thread of Time Photograph by Leland Van Wagoner Art Layout: @ Dick Scopes IIlustrations: fj Mary Scopes The April Magazine, like all the other issues, is a thing of beauty. | had to sit and ponder the cover picture before dipping inside, for there were the bright red hills of home-——-Utah. The lovely cover of each Magazine holds fascination and invitation to me, and so | go inside for complete reading enjoyment. The first prize story ''Moment of Trust,' by Mary Ek Knowles (January 1964) was excellent. And in April | am happy to see the work of Evelyn Fjeldsted again with her short essay "Springtime Again.'' Her writings possess real music and beauty. Alice Gubler Sabin Yakima, Washington After reading Margaret Russell's article ''Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!"'" in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine, my heart was filled with joy when | thought about the number of sisters in the gospel | have gained since becoming a member of the Church. Being an only child, | never knew the joy of having blood brothers and sisters. But since becoming a member of the Church, | have had that longing fulfilled. For eighteen months | was president of the Kanderau Branch Relief Society. Another sister and | used to travel twenty-two miles each way to attend our meetings. Recently we were made into a dependent branch and my husband is branch president. As yet we do not have an organized Relief Society, so you can guess how much | look forward to receiving my Magazine. Mary Sykes Muir Whakatane, New Zealand | enjoy so very much the beautiful covers and frontispieces of The Relief Society Magazine. They bring back such lovely memories of the places in Utah which were so common to me as a young girl. The picture of the South Fork of the Provo River in the April issue is especially beautiful. Eileen Mecham Cleland Rawlins, Wyoming 482 We enjoyed so much the article "What Does Your Speech Reveal?'' by Myrtle E. Henderson, in the March issue of the Magazine, and we think it would be a big help towards speech improvement if we could have this kind of material regularly. We surely enjoy the Magazine. Ruth Capp Vale, Oregon The Magazine came yesterday, and it is such an excellent collection § of stories, poems, and articles that | want to thank you for myself and all the sisters who read it. The article 'The Family Goes Back to School' (by Elaine Reiser Alder, May 1964) seemed to have been written for me personally, as my husband and | are looking forward to going to Brigham Young University next fall. The poems and stories paid such a beautiful tribute to mothers that every mother should be privileged to read this issue. Sharon R. Hawley Norfolk, Virginia We become as one through the Relief Society Magazine. | have a son serving in New Zealand on a mission. A dear sister there who is a Relief Society president has been very kind to him. In correspondence with me, and telling about their bazaar, she referred me to the September issue of the Magazine and the Monument Park Stake displays. In turn,! Called her attention to the July 1963 Magazine wherein the Mount Ogden Stake bazaar is featured. Again we become as one. Ethel T. Lewis Ogden, Utah | think the Magazine is wonderful and the lesson material superb. | want especially to thank Christine H. Robinson for the effort and research she puts into our visiting teacher messages. | often use excerpts from her messages in my talks before the Parent Teachers Association meetings. Rayella Richardson Santa Barbara, California Alberta H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society


VOLUME 51 JULY 1964 NUMBER 7
Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford
Special Features
484 Victory Over Wilderness Alberta H. Christensen
490 Disciplining Children in the Latter-day Saint Home Nell Folkman
508 A Tribute to Relief Society Presidents Lois Tanner
509 The Young Go Visiting Teaching Ella K. Hundsman
Fiction
494 Don't Leave Me Helen B. Gibbons
502 Momentous Decision Beatrice R. Parsons
523 Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 6 Hazel M. Thomson
General Features
482 From Near and Far
499 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon
500 Editorial: The Intent of The Heart Marianne C. Sharp
529 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker
560 Birthday Congratulations
T 3me - inside and Out
Thoughts for a Summer Day, by Caroline Eyring Miner, 511; Diet As a Way of Life, by
Margaret F. Maxwell, 512; How to Remodel a Fitted Suit, by Bonnie S. Hansen, 516; "Train
Up a Child," by Dorothy Hicks, 517; Delilah Davis Pike — Her Hobbies Bring Happiness, 518;
The Sego Lily — Flower of the Pioneers, by Celia Luce, 519; I'm Writing Five Books, by
Janice Dixon, 520; Acceptance, by Irene T. Irving, 522; Growing Old, by Lizzie O. B. White,
522; Violets Are for Remembrance, by Carol Mattson, 528; Humble Values, by Alice R. Rich,
557.
Lesson for Ocfober
536 Theology — The Vision Roy W. Doxey
542 Visiting Teacher CMhersissatignee —H. R"oLbeianvseo n Judgment Alone With Me,"
544 Work Meeting — Introduction Winnifred C. Jardine
546 Literature — The Appreciation and Criticism of Literature Robert K. Thomas
551 Social Science — The Application of Divine Law to Life Ariel S. Ballif
555 Notes on the Authors of the Lessons
481 For a Grandchild — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts
Our Pioneer Centenarians, by Bertha A. Kleinman, 488; Let Me Remember, by Mabel
Jones Gabbott, 489; Faith, by Catherine B. Bowles, 493; Night is My Friend, by Lael W.
Hill, 498; Alchemy, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 507; Her Letter, by Evelyn Fjelsted, 510; Grandmother's
Chair, by Carolle Denton, 517; Prayer, by Nellie B. Schmidt, 543; To My Dear
Sisters in Relief Society, by Marion Mallorie, 556; Come and See, by Christie Lund Coles,
557; Potential, by Pearle M. Olsen, 558; Faith's Magic Wand, by Ida Elaine James, 560.
Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1964 by
the Relief Society General Boord Association, Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Solt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire
4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2,00 o year; foreign, $200 o yeor; 20c a copy, payable in advance.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No bock numbers con be supplied. Renew promptly so thot no copies
will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered os second-closs matter February 18, 1914,
at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879, Acceptance for mailing at speciol rote of postage provided
for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918, Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is
enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.


Victory over wilderness Alberta H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society LOoKING westward from my window, I see a wide and beautiful valley. It is peopled and prosperous. Commerce and_ industry speak through structures of brick and steel, outlined against the sky. There are parks and municipal rose gardens. In full summer foliage are sycamore, oak, and the flowering hawthorne. Orchard fruit is maturing and the fields beyond are amber with: ripening wheat. And yet, a mere one hundred and seventeen years ago this valley floor was a barren waste. Only the gray sage and sand and mountains rimmed the inland sea. What brought these dormant acres into productivity? What wand of magic urged the green blade above the arid loam? Unity of effort wrought this miracle. Men and women whose faith was stronger than sorrow, than hardship, than self-denial, won this victory over wilderness. 484 "The world owes much to men and women who have felt that God had a work for them to do," writes Dr. J. Leonard Arrington. The Mormon pioneers believed that God had a work for them to do, a pattern to follow. Such belief was basic to their pioneering, underlying all early Mormon settlement of the West. It gave purpose and meaning to an incredible march over hundreds of miles of rough and roadless land: to the dream of establishing a commonwealth in a desert. Such dedication to conviction led thousands of converts in the Eastern United States to exchange the comforts of home and established living, for the uncertainties of pioneer life. It led thousands of converts in Europe to hazard an ocean voyage and life in a faraway and unfamiliar land. A deep and substantial faith that the Church leadership was an inspired leadership gave them additional courage, for the pioneer trail did not always end with arrival in the Salt Lake Valley. Many of those early pioneers were counseled by the Church to leave their so newly established homes in the mountain valleys, and to explore and settle other and even more forbidding regions. Almost beyond belief is the pioneering of the San Juan River Basin, and the crossing of the Colorado River through the perilous Hole in the Rock. Only the willing of spirit and the brave of heart would have attempted that pioneering assignment, and only the obedient, the willing and dedicated could have brought it to fulfillment. Tuis belief in the truthfulness of the gospel and in the divinely ordained mission of the Church fortified my own paternal grandmother in the early years of the Church, as she left home and friends in Blaenvon, Wales, to go to America. She would be traveling with five small sons but without her husband. My grandfather had emigrated months before in order to obtain employment and money to send for the family. The little boys were recovering from whooping cough when the "Dreadnought" left port, and the youngest child, dying en route, was buried in the Atlantic. Yet grandmother did not regret her decision, nor was her faith diminished by the nearly four-month journey by ox team across the plains. When we speak of pioneering, we often think only of the strong and vigorous men who cut a new path through the wild, unsettled frontier. But to establish the foundation for continuing family and community life, women were also needed and more than strength of sinew was required. 485 JULY 1964 What of the women in the Mormon pioneering experience? What role did they play? Whether by ox team or handcart, the women assumed their share of the burdens of the trail, often walking part or all of the way. My own grandmother walked about two-thirds of the distance across the plains, carrying her infant son (my father) in a Paisley shawl tied firmly around her waist, while helping the boys "drive the loose stock they were bringing with them." Once in the valley, the role of the women was of major importance. All facets of their natures were challenged by the many and stern realities of pioneering life. They were not only wives and the bearers of children, but they assisted materially in the economy of the struggling settlements. They carried out, collectively, many special assignments given them by President Brigham Young and immediately succeeding Church Presidents. All who are familiar with the fascinating story of Relief Society through the years, know of its cooperative efforts in promoting home industry that the communities might become as selfsustaining as possible. Sericulture, cooperative merchandising of articles made locally by the women, the gleaning and storing of wheat — all assigned projects — are evidence that pioneer Mormon women were considered a real factor in the temporal as well as the spiritual development of the Church. The various angles of the silk-culture venture, and the many ways by which that more profitable assignment of gathering and storing wheat was 486 accomplished, constitute some of the most interesting chapters in the history of Relief Society. But it is not these cooperative efforts, only, valuable as they were to community and_ the Church, that warm my heart and kindle my loyalty. I am thinking of them, today, in their more individual and intimate role of pioneer wife, pioneer mother, and pioneer neighbor. They possessed the ability to evaluate life experiences objectively, and to cut irrelevance away. Things of secondary importance needed to wait until primary needs were met. Food, shelter, and clothing were important for all—for a neighbor as well as for oneself. And thus a sharing, one with another, and a neighborly watchcare, were nourished in the community. I think of the woman who took a neighbor's baby, nursing it with her own child for many weeks, until the stricken mother was well enough again to care for her own child. I think of the dried fruit, the clothing, and the many loaves of bread willingly shared with neighbors who were in greater need. In spite of the wisdom and need to satisfy physical demands first, our pioneer women did not overlook the need for beauty. They could not. Inherent in women's nature is the desire to beautify home — surroundings. Moreover, those pioneer women were refined, cultured women. Many of them had come from well-established homes and were familiar with the refining influence of the arts. They brought bits of beauty with them from faraway places, carefully protected during the long trek—the Staffordshire vase from England, the little brass kettle from a Scottish highland home, the precious china set, and the jet-beaded cape from Boston. And they created beauty. Even in the log cabin and the early adobe houses, there were braided rugs adding interest and color to the hearth; there were the pieced quilts, attractively designed and finely stitched. Flowers grew from seeds brought all the way from "back home," and there were flower arrangements, made by skillful fingers from human hair, framed or protected under domes of glass. I think of the adaptability of those wise women. Changing what could be changed, but accepting the inevitable as such, without loss of faith, without resentment. There were lean years when harvests were meager. There were epidemics of sickness, demanding faith and courage. There were babies to bear in crowded and often isolated homes. I think of my own grandmother, a loved and dependable midwife. According to her biography, she was interested in nursing and medicine even as a young girl in England. Because of her keen interest, she was often allowed to observe the town physician render medical services, even to such operations as the amputation of a limb. It was as if she were being prepared for the important role she was to play years later, in the pioneer communities of Utah Valley. I envision her horse and buggy journeys through many years, and through all seasons and all hours of day or night, to assist in the birth of a child. I VICTORY OVER WILDERNESS think of the assurance her confident skill must have brought to the anxious household. I think of the pioneer mother's resourcefulness in creating what could not be had otherwise. She improvised, used every resource available, with nothing wasted, that her growing family might be neatly clothed. Curtailment can be a great motivator, stimulating creativity and eventually placing emphasis where it should be, upon the doing, rather than upon merely having. I recall hearing my mother relate many times, and with the light of satisfaction in her eyes, of making her own hats all through her teen years. She would glean the wheat straws from the fields. Then, braiding them into three, four, or even eight strands, would sew them into attractive hats. To the end of his long life, my father could not see any of his six daughters wear a widebrimmed summer hat, without referring to the attractive hats that mother used to make and wear. He would add_ nostalgically, "With drooping brim and flowers and a bow." I think of the pioneer wife concealing from her husband, for he already had burden enough to bear, her loneliness for family and friends back home, who had not been able to see the light of the gospel message. In these days of material abundance and _ uncertain values, I think of the great reserve of inner strength, unconsciously developed by such self-discipline. Victory over the wilderness was more than triumph over land and drought, it was also victory over the wilderness within oneself. Many of 487 those pioneer women must have learned, as all who would be happy must learn, soon or late, that happiness comes from within, and that it can be nourished by small and simple joys. Family solidarity is developed when children are taught, in early youth, to share in essential family projects. It can give them the feeling of being important and needed. I have heard mother tell of making tallow candles each fall for winter use; of cording, spinning and dyeing yarn; of the many pairs of socks she knit, even as a young girl, for her father and brothers. In spite of the need for strict frugality and in spite of much self-denial, pioneer life was not generally somber. It was challenging and vital and faith-promoting. Through thousands of _ stories cherished by descendants of that stalwart vanguard, come vivid pictures of those early days. There was the jolly quilting bee, the corn husking party, the basket-lunch social. There were children making gifts and Christmas tree ornaments from practically Our Pioneer "nothing." There was the indispensable town band, the singing in the parlor, the melodrama presented by "all home talent," for the Church encouraged the development of cultural arts. There were the long winter evenings of listening to father read or of hearing grandmother or Aunt Martha tell, over again, how the gospel message first came to their door. No child could ever forget that. And then there was prayer — the family prayer, more precious than all to remember. It was a long prayer. Sometimes a child wondered if it would ever end. But it was impressive, sincere, and simply stated. It was a prayer of gratitude for the blessing of life, for a more abundant crop, or for rain, or that the neighbor boy had been restored to health, and for each other. I can hear my own father's mellow voice, reaching through the years with these always final words: "'... And help us to remain faithful to the end." Family prayer — what a fitting prelude to sleep and to the challenge of another day! Centenarians Bertha A. Kleinman A Centenary hails you at your journey's ending, Where crystal waves caress a far-flung shore, When you embark beyond the world's contending, To share a haven-refuge evermore. Long have you trudged the endless furrows, tilling The stubborn soil for other hands to reap, Mingling your tears with gracious rain distilling, Prayerful for scanty fare and wearied sleep. Roses—my gardens teem with their abundance, Where feet of yours have trod the rugged space, Yours be the attar of their sky-born fragrance, That wafts like incense at the throne of grace. 488 Let Me Remember Mabel Jones Gabbott Let me remember as the days grow long How brief a time is summer, how sweet her song. How children take delight in barefoot days, The garden's joyance in the hot sun's rays, The full maturing of flower and fruit, And garnering of good from leaf and root. From early freshness, through the heat of noon, To lingering twilight, summer goes too soon. 489 Nell Folkman Former Director Psychometric Services, University of Utah And they shall also teach their children to pray, and walk uprightly before the Lord (D&C 68:28). THIs is a tremendous responsibility that the Lord has given us: to teach our children to walk in paths of truth and light so they will be able to return to him. As influences outside the home increase, we recognize the need to make our teaching inside the home more effective. The artist who paints a masterpiece must have two qualities. First, he needs the ideas and inspiration in his mind so that he knows what he wants to create. Second, he must have the skills necessary to transform his ideas and inspiration into the finished product. So it is with us as we seek to train our children. We have the gospel of Jesus Christ as our guide and inspiration. We know that we want to teach our children the gospel so that they may have a rich, rewarding life on this earth and an eternal life with their Heavenly Father. And 490 we, too, need the skills — the skills of effective teaching — to transform these beautiful principles into the lives of our children. There is no absolutely right or wrong way for a particular family to rear its children. We are all individuals with our own values and ways of acting. Our children, too, are individuals with their Own personality patterns. We cannot develop specific rules which will guarantee results with all children. What we can do, however, is to develop guidelines which will enable us to think more intelligently about these problems and_ their solutions. From the generalities of gospel teachings, we can emphasize certain specific beliefs that have particular bearing on the way we teach our children. These can be used as a basic Philosophy upon which to base these guidelines. 1. The Gospel of Jesus Christ Is a Gospel of Love Psychologists tell us that the love a child feels is given to him in the first few months of his life has a great deal to do with his whole outlook on life. The child who feels loved and feels good about himself has the capacity to love and feel warm toward those around him. The unconditional love of parents for each child is the strong foundation upon which all other teachings rest. 2. Children Are Born With the Capacity to Grow and Develop Through Learning and Training Perhaps this is so self-evident that it might seem unnecessary to include it. However, this concept is an important part of our Heavenly Father's plan. If the child were not a dynamic, growing individual, he could not take part in this marvelous plan. It is important for parents to realize that the child is learning and developing every moment of his life. Regardless of what we do or do not do, the child continues to learn something. It is our responsibility to make sure that he is learning the right things. 3. Children, As Children of God, Are Essentially Good Christ taught that "Except ye... Become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven" (Mt. 18:3). In latterday revelation, the Lord also tells us: But, behold, I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the foundation of the world through mine DISCIPLINING CHILDREN IN THE L. D. S. HOME Only Begotten; Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children, until they begin to become accountable before me (D&C 29:46-47). To say that children are basically good does not mean that they do not misbehave. It does mean that misbehavior results from different understandable causes (which we will talk about later) rather than from an inherently bad nature. It is clear that a parent who looks upon the small child as a child of God will react differently to his misbehavior than will one who sees the child as bad. 4. Free Agency Is Basic to Man's Development One of the main purposes of man's mortal life is to afford him the opportunity to choose between good and evil. The responsibility of parents is to teach their children not only the difference between right and wrong, but also how to make the choice. The child first learns to be obedient to authority. He accepts right choices because he knows that someone who has authority over him (his parent, teacher, the policeman, or others) will approve his doing so, or punish him if he does not. However, there is no particular virtue in refraining from stealing an apple when the policeman is watching. It is only when we refrain when we know nobody will find out, that it becomes a right choice. Witn these four principles in mind, we need next to define the word discipline. Many parents equate it with punishment. However, Webster defines it as "training that develops self-control, 491 JULY 1964 character, or efficiency." Thus, it becomes a way of teaching rather than a way of punishment. Parents who use this definition of discipline in their philosophy of child training will react differently to problems which arise with their children than will parents who see discipline primarily as punishment. We can more easily teach children what is right if we try to understand causes of misbehavior. Why do children misbehave? There are many reasons. Many times a small child does things that are wrong simply because he doesn't know any better. He has not yet learned what is right. Discipline, in this case, would consist of teaching him the right way. Sometimes the child misbehaves because he has learned that he can get what he wants (and often what he wants is simply attention) by doing something he knows to be irritating or wrong. He prefers punishment to no attention at all. If we give the child sufficient attention and love when he is good, he will not have to resort to bad behavior to get it. Often out-of-bounds behavior results as a natural consequence of a child's curiosity and his exploratory activities. He finds an 'object useful for hammering, so he hammers (sometimes on the furniture). He discovers that crayons make lovely marks, so he makes these marks (and _ it doesn't matter to him where he does it). Here is where channeling behavior is so important. We do not want the child to feel that hammering or drawing with crayons are in themselves unde- 492 sirable activities—only that there are certain ways we use these tools and certain ways that we do not. So we teach him the acceptable ways. There are many other causes of misbehavior: a child doesn't feel well, he had a bad day at school, or he is overtired. The point is, if we try to understand why a child misbehaves, we are in a better position to devise ways to teach him, not only to stop his misbehavior, but also what constitutes right behavior. Often what a child needs is someone who has the patience to show him how to do something right. Children learn slowly, and too often the busy parents assume that a child is being perverse or bad. Children learn faster by rewards than they do by punishments. We should capitalize on the actions we want repeated rather than emphasizing the behavior to be eliminated. This can be done by approving successful and cooperative behavior and by helping the child see where he can do better. Another method of teaching might be termed diversionary tactics. Under this category would come such things as supplying a pounding board when the child starts hammering the furniture; appropriate places to draw instead of the wall. But to make it work, parents have to make sure the diversion is as attractive as the forbidden object it replaces. Letting the child suffer the consequences of his own acts is often one of the best methods of discipline. If the child does not get his work done before the time of an outing, he stays home. If he picks a fight, he doesn't get too much sympathy over the resulting black eye. Of course, this method cannot be used when a child is in real danger. We would not let him run in front of a car just to teach him a lesson. Deprivation of privileges is another good way to teach. If a toy is not taken care of, it is put away and can't be played with for awhile. If a child cannot get along with his friend, he has to play by himself. Do not underestimate' the power of words in teaching. Explanations and reasoning are often effective with children old enough to understand. Let the child know what he has done wrong, but don't stop there. Go on to help him understand what would have been a better way to behave in those particular circumstances. If we are thoughtful about the teaching of our children, we can incorporate into our plans several ideas which will make it easier, and the administration of punishment more effective. 1. Let each child know that you respect him as an individual with rights. Take into account his individuality, his personality, his needs, his age, and his condition in deciding what rules must be followed, what punishments meted out. 2. Have as few rules as _ possible. As each child matures, encourage DISCIPLINING CHILDREN IN THE L. D. S. HOME him to help make the rules. Make sure demands are reasonable. Then be consistent in seeing that these are obeyed. 3. Decrease the forbidden and uninvestigated by replacing many "don'ts" with such ideas as: "You may do it over here." "Let me show you a safe way." "You may do it while I am with you." This makes it easier for the child to accept the fact that there are things which must remain forbidden. 4. Find opportunities, consistent with his maturity and experience, for the child to make his own decisions. Give him guidance, help him see vari-.- ous consequences, and then let the choice be his. 5. "Let the punishment fit the crime." Make sure the child sees the relationship between the punishment and what he has done wrong. Punishment, when necessary, should be promptly and _ justly administered. Moderate punishment is usually more effective than that which is overly severe. 6. Give punishment in love. Never threaten to withhold love as a punishment. Differentiate between disapproval of the act and disapproval of the child. "Reproving betimes with sharpness... And then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reprovel" (D&C 121:43). If we parents can develop thoughtful attitudes and loving and prayerful hearts, we can become equal to this challenge which our Father in heaven has given us. Faith Catherine B. Bowles There is recompense on the path of life Though thorny the road. There will always be A bright colored rainbow to light the sky Over trials, to smooth the path to eternity. 493 Lucretia filled a steaming bowl with cornmeal mush for Jim, taking care not to spill on her bright rag carpet. The new cabin had a sweet smell about it, a neatness and warmth, but there was no pleasure in the pretty room for her this morning. She went and stood unseeingly at the tiny window. "Aren't you going to _ eat, Crishy?" Jim's face was clouded but his voice tender. "'You need it, for the baby's sake as well as you own." She could not even look at him. Her eyes were red from sleeplessness and frustrated weeping. "T couldn't swallow a bite." They had talked half the night. Now there was nothing left to say. Jim ate his mush and milk in silence while Lucretia nervously busied herself about the room, smoothing the fresh straw 494 Helen B. Gibbons mattress on their bed, pulling up the clean quilts. With the dipper from the bucket, she watered the geranium on the window-ledge. Half her mind kept silently insisting, I won't go! I can't go! But the other half yearned for the sweet safety of her husband's approval. Without turning to look, she could see his square bronzed face, and _ his light, bright hair. Even in homespun work clothes he looked magnificent. She had often reflected that this handsome outer form was but the mirror image of his powerful inner character. She loved him so much that an estrangement now was pure agony. "Surely we won't leave Jamie," she pleaded softly at last. ""Must we so soon forget our promise?" Jim frowned, but he kissed her before he spoke. "Don't Crishy. Don't torture yourself. We have been called on a mission. Everything will work out all right, the way it's supposed to. Don't worry." He pulled his long arms into an old, warm coat, and started out the door. "T''ll be back as early as I can." Lucretia nodded numbly and watched him hitch the team to the wagon and set off toward the east mountains for a load of winter firewood. The wagon wheels stirred up circles of dust, rolled along by canyon breezes. The first glint of sunlight flashed over the hill, and in its gleam the silhouette of a rough headstone caught Lucretia's eye. Seeing it, she ached anew, and an involuntary sob slipped past her throat. They had laid Jamie there so recently, a boy too young, too wonderful to go so soon. Jim and Lucretia had lovingly hauled the granite slab to mark the fresh-turned grave. For days Jim had chiseled at the stone, briefly to state its purpose: JAMES PHILLIP CURRIE 1850-1864 it had been Jamie's wish to remain near them, so they had placed him there above the family farm. His very last words had been a plea, coming from the depths of the nightmare he had suffered so long: 'Don't leave me, Mamma, Pappa! Please don't leave me behind!"' Lucretia had held his feverracked young body in her trembling arms. Hot tears spilled out upon the light, bright head. "We'll keep you with us, Jamie."' Now Lucretia climbed the hill again and knelt beside her son's resting place. DON'T LEAVE ME People say that doing something over and over makes it easier. That's not always true. Laying Jamie away was not easier. It had been hard to see little Clara placed into a makeshift coffin and buried beside the trail on the plains, but it was even harder to lose their only other child, Jamie. Poor Jamie. His nightmare had begun in Nebraska, when cholera hit the camp. Many people grew sick, and almost every day another grave was planted beside the road. The company would pause and sorrowfully conduct a simple funeral—a prayer, a few brief words, a sacred song accompanied by Sister Hancock and her violin. Then they would move on. When precious little Clara, with her chubby face and happy heart, took sick, Jim took Jamie away to another wagon, away from the sickness. From afar, the boy would watch the family wagon with big, frightened eyes. "How's Clara today?" he would call. The news was always bad. It grew worse. One day, the rough marker on the grave beside the trail bore little Clara's name. Next day the company moved on, and the Currie family, weeping and turning back to catch a last glimpse of their baby's headstone, rolled on to the Valley and left behind a little girl in her eternal sleep. It bothered Jamie. It bothered him a lot. "Why did we have to leave Clara there alone?" he would ask. Some nights he woke up crying, and the nightmare was always the same. JULY 1964 "Don't leave me! Please don't ever leave me!"' On THE chilly hillside Lucretia smoothed the dirt over the little mound that was Jamie. She could so vividly remember every detail of his bouncing, vibrant self. He had been wild with excitement as the new cabin rose to completion. He worked as hard as any man to help his father with the construction. Lucretia shivered a little, but smiled, remembering Jamie on this plot of earth he loved so passionately — the big, old cottonwood trees, the fertile fields, the secret yields of berries along the banks of the singing, ice-cold creek. "Tt's our canyon, and our valley, and we will live happily ever after," he gaily said. No one dreamed that he would have to live his whole life out in fourteen years. At least, he savored every minute, enjoying life with a contagious zest. When Jamie fell into his final sleep, many lights went out in Lucretia's heart. "T must get to work," she scolded herself aloud, starting down the well-worn trail to the cabin. "I must not sit here thinking." She walked carefully because of the baby. She walked, but she wanted to run to get away from the memory of Jamie's nightmare. It hurt to remember his frantic pleas. She did not like to remember, but she could not forget. The fever struck and Jamie grew delirious. Then the old fears returned and multiplied. "Don't leave me behind! Please don't leave me!" It became, in 496 his delirium, almost a_ panicstricken scream. The morning sun now flooded the valley, and Lucretia caught her breath at the lovely view which lay before her. This was home to her—a real home at last. She had put her roots down deeply here in this green - and - gold landscape. Here, with their own hands, they had built their cabin beneath the shady trees. Here was the good soil that filled their winter stores. Here were dear friends as neighbors. Why can't we stay? Why do they have to call us away? With a kind of fury, she attacked her work, as if to quiet her unhappy thoughts. Threshing out dry beans for winter storage, Lucretia pounded the pods almost too vigorously. At the scrubbing board, she wore clothes thin. Why? Why? Yet even as she questioned, her conscience smote her. She and Jim had never before refused a call. Lucretia hated herself for her feelings, but most of all she hated the call itself. TuHey had been asked to move to the Muddy River to help establish some settlements there. The Church needed cotton, and a safe way-station between California and St. George. Jim and Lucretia, young and strong, were called to the Muddy Mission. The Muddy! Even the name sounded dreadful, but it was worse when Lucretia talked to her cousin who had _ recently come north on a visit from St. George. Her cousin said that the country was hot and dry, with no shelter or shade from the sun. It was bad enough at St. George with flies and filth and hunger, everyone ill from chills and fever. Her cousin said things were even worse toward Las Vegas Spring where the Muddy River lay. The land was tortured and rough, and quicksand lay on river beds. Worst of all, there were Indians on the Muddy, primitive, dangerous marauders. To go to such a place and begin again! To abandon this lovely cabin! To bear a child in the wilderness where chills and fever crept into the settlements on the dread night air! To break a promise and leave Jamie behind! There was no solution. Lucretia worked in gloom, feeling quite miserable. She was outside in the afternoon sun when Sister Hancock hobbled up the road carrying her ancient violin case. Lucretia had always loved the violin. Long years ago in her prosperous home in the East she had played such an instrument. Her love for music had been a bond between the two women—Sister Hancock, aged, crippled, but ever cheerful, and the younger Lucretia. Sister Hancock's violin was a fine instrument, and her most valuable possession, for she was very poor. "Lucretia," she cried, embracing her young friend, "I'm proud to hear that you've been called on a mission."' Lucretia dared not answer, not knowing what to say. It did not matter. Sister Hancock preferred to do the talking most of the time anyway. "T envy you and Jim. You're young and you can really do things. Now me, I'm no good at all any more." "Oh, Sister Hancock, you always do good." DON'T LEAVE ME "No. I guess my time is almost up. That's why I came over here today. The happiest days I ever spent were working to serve the Lord. I just kept wishing that I could do something for the Muddy Mission, too, and in the night I thought of it." "You did?" "It's my dear old violin. I'd consider it a favor if you'd take it and make music for the saints on the mission. It would be almost like part of me going to. Serve the Church. I won't need it much longer anyway. Take it, dearie. Take it, with my blessing." Lucretia hesitated, but Sister Hancock was firm. She carried the musical instrument inside and gently laid it upon the table. "But it's all you have — you will need it for yourself." "Rheumatism's been getting worse. I'll never last the winter out, and I'm kind of glad. It will be a relief to discard this old aching body, and go where they say you will be forever young. Perhaps there will be music there for me to make." It was difficult to speak, and Lucretia struggled to keep her voice steady. "Thank you, dear Sister Hancock. Ill always treasure it." "Just you play it well for other folks and I'll be content." The aged visitor stayed awhile. She dozed a bit and talked a lot. Lucretia needed merely to smile and nod and listen to her lonely neighbor's reminiscences. She was glad, for her heart was in turmoil. Strange how cheerfully Sister Hancock could speak of discarding her old, aching body. Poor, dear little soul. 497 JULY 1964 iT crew late and her visitor departed. Lucretia finished her work and built up the fire to fix supper for Jim. Then she wandered outside to watch for his wagon. Sitting on the bench beside the cabin wall, she huddled in her shawl to look and to think. Up on the hill, the granite headstone was almost indistinguishable in its' setting. It blended with the background until she had difficulty determining which of the many stones was Jamie's. Just before the sun set, it cast a lovely, soft glow over the hillside for a moment. In the unreal-looking light, everything seemed different. Sitting there -waiting, thinking, half-praying, Lucretia experienced a_ strange feeling. The lovely, soft glow engulfed her heart with a kind of peacefulness. She felt better than she had in many days, for suddenly, everything looked different to her. Jamie! The hill does not hold Jamie at all. He's gone on ahead to the better place Sister Hancock anticipates, where there is sweet music for her to play. Why didn't I think of it before? Why couldn't I see it? Wagon wheels crunched over the rocks, and in the twilight Lucretia ran to meet her tired husband with his load of wood. He 'reined in and climbed down with open arms. "Oh, Jim, forgive my doubts," she cried. '"'Of course we will accept our call. I want to go to the Muddy with you. We have our work to do." "T knew you would, Crishy. I knew it all the time." He smoothed her soft curls with roughened fingertips. '"'We won't be leaving Jamie," Lucretia explained—as much to herself as to Jim. "We'll just be getting nearer to where he is now." Night Is My Friend Lael W. Hill Night and | are best of friends. | go with him in laughter; He stars the way my dream ascends To heaven's highest rafter. | tell him all | dare not say, He shares my tree of sorrow; Not anyone knows me today As he will by tomorrow. Night and | are proven friends. My love is in his keeping, And when my heart must break, he lends His dark arms for my weeping. 498 Ramona W. Cannon MRS. CORA STAVIG, Sioux Falls, South Dakota, wife of Dr. L. M. Stavig, President of Augustana College, was chosen American Mother of the Year, during the five day ceremonies in New York City in May. Mother of four sons, all professional men _ successful in their chosen fields, Mrs. Stavig, was cited for her contributions to international understanding through ''people to people" diplomacy, and for her leadership in marriage counseling and adult education. MRS. LURENE ELDREDGE WARNICK, Pleasant Grove, Utah, wife of Merrill Warnick, former president of the National Dairy Council and former president of Timpanogos Stake, represented Utah. She is the mother of eight outstanding children, is a leader in educational and cultural affairs in her community, and has long been prominent in Relief Society work. MRS. EMMA LAVERA WILLIAMS CALVERT, Caliente, Nevada, mother of seven children, and President of Caliente Ward Relief Society, attended the meetings as the Nevada Mother. Widowed when her children were young, she educated her family through her own efforts, and sent four of them on missions, and at the same time played an active role in the educational and civic affairs of her community. MRS. JERRIE MOCK became the first woman to fly solo around the world when she set down her single-engine Cessna 108 plane, ''Spirit of Columbus,'' at Port Columbus, Ohio, April 17, 1964. The thirty-eight-year-old housewife was greeted by her husband, Russell Mock, and their three children. The aviatrix, also the first woman to fly the Pacific Ocean solo, logged about 200 hours of flying time, via Bermuda, the Azores, Casablanca, Tripoli, Cairo, Dhahran, Pakistan, India, Thailand, the Philippines, Guam, Wake, and Honolulu — more than 22,858 miles. Joan Merriam Smith became the second aviatrix to circle the globe. She landed her Piper Apache at Oakland Airport May 13th. MRS. RUTH G. VAN CLEVE, a career government attorney, was sworn in on April 16, 1964, as director of the Office of Territories, the first woman to fill such an important post in the United States Department of the Interior. With the Department since 1950, she has given outstanding service as assistant interior solicitor in the Division of Territories, Wildlife, and Parks. DAME SYBIL THORNDYKE, England's beloved older actress, performed in the stellar role in ''Measure for Measure,"' in London, June 15, 1963, at the closing performance of the fabled ''Old Vic'' theater—home of Shakespearean drama for many generations. A picture of Dame Sybil, surrounded by the cast as she made the farewell speech following the final curtain, was shown in various countries at exhibitions honoring the four hundredth anniversary of Shakespeare's birth (April 23, 1564). 499 EDITORIAL From childhood one is cautioned when angry to count ten before speaking, to learn to control one's temper; that ''pretty is as pretty does."' One hears in Sunday School of the choosing of King Saul's successor—David—and is told how, one after another, the handsome sons of Jesse were brought before Samuel, but the one to be chosen was none of them. The chosen one was a mere youth, and the Lord admonished Samuel, '"'Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature... For the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart' (1 Samuel 16:7). As the years of one's life lengthen, one draws inevitably closer to the end of this earth life and a return to the realms of the eternal. Which of the kingdoms has one prepared herself through earth life to inherit—the celestial, terrestrial, or telestial, or even a kingdom without glory? The trite words of youth, ''pretty is as pretty does,'' take on real significance with reference to cleansing the soul of ugly, dark evils and lightening the soul toward perfection. One woman said, ''! Am not afraid of being judged by my actions; I'm afraid of being judged by my thoughts."' This feeling may be shared by the many. What is the difference — or is there one between a sister who pays her tithing with joy in her heart at the opportunity of returning to her Father one-tenth of the means he has bestowed upon her, and the sister who pays grudgingly? One sister who nurses another with gladness in a spirit of love; and a second sister who nurses another, seemingly cheerful but inwardly unhappy, and doing it from a sense of duty alone? A sister who speaks heartfelt, friendly words to an VOLUME 51 JULY 1964 NUMBER 7 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer acquaintance; and a sister who speaks friendly words whlie silently criticising and even disliking the one she is addressing. It may well give one cause to ponder that the Lord knows the intent of the heart. No matter how loving, understanding, and forgiving Heavenly Father may be, what can he do about a proud heart, a contemptuous or disdainful spirit? Each individual woman has her free agency and, if a change of heart is to occur,. The miracle must be wrought by the possessor of the heart. This is a life of temptations and trials and tribulations. The Heavenly Father's plan makes the individual subject to them; but in a time of dire distress it is up to each woman, whether she possesses the spirit of Christ "'thy will not mine be done,"' or whether she harbors the spirit of rebellion and resentment and demands, ''What have | done, why should this happen to me?'' What had Christ done but give his all of suffering in love that every one might live? If repentance will overcome the spirit of hypocrisy, haughtiness, pride, and criticism, it will come through accepting the will of the Lord, and studying and pondering on the life of Christ which will flood the soul with love for him. As one's love for Christ increases, so does one's love for fellow man. It is inevitable. This love makes strong the spirit of charity. Christ's example shines far ahead, but it may become the wellspring of one's own actions, day by day, hour by hour, minute by minute, crowding out the evil intent of the heart. The way is not easy, but the end will be glorious to one whose "charity never faileth."' —M. C. S Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Eina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva Barlow Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Miomentous Decision Beatrice R. Parsons Wen she woke that morning, Louise knew that something specially nice was going to happen. Of course! The Miltone reunion! Oh, she must hurry. Very soon the kitchen would be buzzing with activity. She dressed quickly, brushing her graying hair with deft strokes so that it framed her face in a slightly old-fashioned hair-do. She had worn it almost the same way when she and Hal were married. Now Hal Avery was gone. After thirty-eight years, she didn't want to change it, since he had liked it that way. She hurried downstairs, her eyes, behind the shining lenses of her glasses, as bright blue as her neat house dress. But standing at the doorway of her spotless kitchen, she paused to smile at herself. 502 "What's your rush?" she asked, and her voice made a murmur of sound in the silent house. ""There isn't anything you can do to get ready for the Reunion. Soon your daughters will be here to take over. And your daughters-in-law. They will look after even the tiniest details of the picnic at the park." Slowly, she made herself a slice of toast. The milk from the refrigerator was cool and sweet. There was strawberry jam. But she wasn't really hungry. Breakfast was always a lonely time without Hal. She sat quietly, staring out of the window, not quite knowing the taste of her food. The kitchen windows opened on to an expanse of green lawn. Her son George insisted on paying old Max Net- heir houses had €arly in the 1900's on land that had once been the M. Louise's &tandfather had ed the land which his father be Ore him had ¢ Sen when h first Came into the Valle he Ouses half-circle. New eve One hb heir first names 4ny of her neighbors She Shivered a little in Spite of | morning sun flood. Ing the kitchen, The day was here eorge, h Pain that Pushed at her heart Was Ike a dul] knife "T've 80t to be Sure," she told George quietly, Jy Was Teally the most Momentoys decision She had €ver had to Make, [f Only Hal] Were her. To a Vise he ut it Was because Hal wasn't here that She had ¢ face he fut Te all by herself. Drew a lon breath and Promised: " ll thin It Over, Corge. J] d tever js best," Bur wh t quesWwW de Porches arge roo " and a Winding Stairase. The young Cleaning woman who did ext ork in al] the hous €S aroun the hal "Circle, haq Pointed Smiling] "Nobod has a dining room nowadays, Mrs.. Tr a great, big dining table. Ho hard you must have worked When al] your family were home. Ta good girls were Married, he had to Wipe the dishes, " The young woman had laughed and said brightly, "We thing, if you JULY 1964 daughters to live you won't have to cook unless you want to." Louise paled. "I'd be sure to push the wrong button in those total-gadget kitchens of theirs, and end up frying the laundry and washing the pancakes."' The young woman had giggled, and said flatly, '"Well, one thing, you'll never miss this kitchen." So it wasn't the kitchen. Or the dining room. Or the upstairs bedrooms that must be vacuumed and dusted every week in spite of the fact that nobody slept in them. The house was just too big for just one person. So why couldn't she make up her mind te..TM. She was called from her reverie by the sound of cars driving up to the house. "Goodness," she said, putting her uneaten breakfast away, "'they're already here!" She hurried to the door to be kissed, hugged, smiled over, and loved by her children and grandchildren. THEN, as her daughters and daughters-in-law bustled about the kitchen, she picked up the invitation to the Miltone Reunion and read it over again. It was very nice, with small pen-and-ink drawings of the oxen and covered wagon that had carried the first Miltone into the valley. Her name was first on the list, because she was the oldest. Then there were her sisters, Constance, Ruth, and Madge. Her children were listcd with their husbands and wives — Leah, Melinda, Helen, George, and Stanley. There were the children, and all the cousins, nephews and nieces. So many of them, Louise had decided, that she had insisted on 504 sharing the reunion with several of her old friends from the neighborhood. "It's nice to share," she had told her daughters when they questioned her idea. "'"Some of the older ladies don't get out much. You have plenty of room in your cars." Because they were nice, generous people, they hadn't objected. Leah had laughed and said, "I can't see what difference a dozen more can possibly make. We'll only need a gallon of salad and a bushel of potato chips, to say nothing of a few hundred sandwiches."' Louise slipped the invitation into a drawer, ready for her scrapbook and went to help with the sandwiches. The first one was lifted gently from her hand. Helen smiled at her. "There's plenty of help, darling," she said reprovingly. "As the matriarch of the Miltone family, this is your big day. We can't let you get worn out even before we get to the park." As though putting tuna-salad sandwiches into little waxed bags could wear her out! Standing there, her hands listless at her sides, she considered that word matriarch. It did make her feel old! She thought whimsically, let's face it, Louise Miltone Avery, you are a Senior Citizen, age sixty-seven. She giggled a little, remembering something George had said, when, at sixteen, he had brought home his first secondhand car. How proud he had been! How angry when everyone laughed. His brown eyes had shot sparks. "There's a lot of life in that old chassis even yet!" Well, she wasn't useless, yet. She reached for a salad bowl. Mellie took it gently from her hands. "T'll do that, darling. Just don't bother with a thing."' She kissed her lightly on the cheek. "Just sit down and rest."' Rest, when her hands were just itching to help. Rest when her body was straining to contribute. Like George's old car, she wasn't quite through. SHE opened the cupboard and got out a dish. Her daughter-inlaw took it from her, and patted her arm tenderly. "Do sit down, Mother Avery. You've earned a rest." Louise hoped her smile didn't look grim. Maybe she had earned a rest, but she didn't want it. "T'll get the silver ready," she said, and opened the drawer. Leah was beside her. 'Mother, let me do that."' She took the silver carefully away, and pushed a lock of graying hair from her mother's forehead. Her voice was soft, 'Oh, darling, we'll be so happy to have you come live with us." Helen said urgently, 'She's coming to us. Glen and I have a room in the basement, and her very own bath." Melinda said hastily, 'Our house isn't as grand as yours or Leah's, but we have a room." George, retrieving a huge basket from the table, said firmly, "Mother is going to live with us." For a moment — just as she had when they were children — Louise detected the beginning of a sharp quarrel. Stanley, who had always been the peacemaker, settled the argument quietly. "You're coming to all of us, darling. A few months or weeks MOMENTOUS DECISION at a time, just as you like. That way, you'll be free to do whatever you like, visit your friends, go on trips." There was true love and devotion in all the faces before her. Her happiness was uppermost in all their minds and hearts. George smiled and gathered up his basket. ''Let's get this show on the road. Or all the relatives and friends will be at the park before we get there." Such a rush and bustle fol-. Lowed. There were children to be collected, cars to be packed. Leah stayed behind to see that everything was shipshape. Then she locked the door. Louise, being helped into one of the cars, remembered, enviously, that once she had been the last out of the house. Why, once she had been convinced that a Miltone reunion could not go on without her! "Now," she told herself dubiously, "I do believe that it goes on in spite of me!" She sniffed a little at her small, unfunny joke, and one of the children hurried to roll up the window so "Gramma" wouldn't feel a draft. THE reunion was. Everything they had hoped and planned. The day was fresh and clear. The sky was like bluish whipped cream where tiny clouds crossed it. The lawns were green and lush on which the children played. The softly rustling leaves of the huge elms pooled the chairs, where the older ones sat, with charcoal shadows. The long tables, with their gay paper cloths and _ napkins, groaned with the weight of goodies. The paper plates were piled 505 JULY 1964 high for children and alike. When Louise tried to help, Leah ordered tenderly, "I'll wait on you, darling. Sit with your sisters and friends. ['ll bring you each a plate." They were heaped with fried chicken, salad, chips, and sandwiches. Constance, wiping her lips with her napkin, confessed, "I always make a piggy of myself over Mellie's fried chicken. She's almost as good a cook as you were, Louise. I remember all those wonderful dinners we had at your house." Ruth sighed. "I never liked cooking, although I did manage to feed four healthy children and a husband. Even my cooking tasted good when there was a family to eat it." "When I fix myself something to eat, now that Fred is gone," grownups said Madge, "it's never as good as I expect. It's no fun, eating alone." She sighed. "Sometimes, just to get a really good meal, I go downtown to a restaurant." Mellie, bringing dishes of ice cream and cake, added lightly, "When Mother comes to live with us, there won't be many restaurants in her life. T've got a husband who thinks home cooking is the biggest thing in his life. My, how that man does enjoy a family dinner." She rushed away, pride in the swing of her body, and Louise was suddenly aware that her sisters and friends were studying her quietly. "So, you've made up your mind," said Constance briefly. "Honestly, I do believe you're right. Everyone of us here knows how dull and lonely it can be, liv- 506 ing alone. No wonder we stuff ourselves on fried chicken when there's company to eat it with." Company to eat it with! Louise told herself that she was silly to lie awake now that the reunion was over and everyone was home in bed, and to keep saying to herself: Company to eat it with, Goodness, that phrase didn't even make good grammar. But it did make sense. Meals were better when a person had someone to eat with. Well, after tomorrow — after she had made a call to George to tell him that he could go ahead with his plans for listing the house — Louise Miltone Avery would have a lot of company to eat with. Every meal would be a pleasure. But! Gracious! She found herself sitting up in bed, reviewing all the preparations for the reunion. Why, the girls hadn't allowed her to do a thing! And when she lived in their homes, they'd be more insistent than ever that she wouldn't get tired, wouldn't do a thing to help. They would decree in their devoted way, that she be put upon a shelf marked not needed any more, and her hands, as well as her mind and body, would deteriorate into uselessness. "But if not! If not." She scarcely dared to let such a thought enter her mind. If she had something to do — something really worthwhile. Something she could contribute.... The next morning as_ she dressed, those night-thoughts kept tugging at her mind. They followed her as she made her toast, got out the carton of milk. As she sat down before the paper napkin she had put at her place, she felt a little guilty, knowing that Hal didn't like her to skimp on breakfast. Well, she wasn't hungry, perhaps because of the picnic yesterday. She put the toast crumbs out to the birds, the milk carton back in the refrigerator. A thought crept persistently into her consciousness — It's no fun to eat alone. Sue had a wishful idea. If there were only some way for old friends and sisters to get together over lunch. She went to the dining room door and glared at the big table. Why, that awful, inanimate piece of furniture seemed to be coaxing for a white linen cloth, rosesprigged china, fine silver. She could almost hear her girls saying reprovingly, ""But, Mother! All that work. Getting lunch for other people. You mustn't slave over a hot stove." She broke off, laughing loudly and clearly. Oh, that silly cliche! Since when has a stove like mine been hot — except under the pots! Besides, she had always loved to cook. She was sure their next objection would be expenses for groceries. Well, she thought about that. MOMENTOUS DECISION Everyone could contribute to the food, or eat at a nominal expense. "If it doesn't work," she told herself brightly, ''no harm will be done. At least I'll give it a try. I'm sure my sisters will love it." So would her neighbors. And each could take a turn if she wished! Her hand went out to phone George. She drew it hastily back. George was inclined to be severe. Stan was the one she would call. He could tell the others. "It isn't that I'm not grateful - to think you all want me, son. I'm sure you'll understand, and so will the others when they think about it. Just tell them I feel gay and happy and excited about having this plan. Someday I may accept your invitations." She knew by Stan's voice that he was surprised, a little shocked, and even worried. But when he put up the phone she was sure he understood. And, peacemaker that he was, he would pass his own understanding on to the others. Her finger shook a little as she dialed Constance. As the phone buzzed while she waited, Louise knew a vast delight. Loneliness was flying away. Once more she had something to contribute to the world that had been bent on passing her by. Alchemy Vesta N. Fairbairn The spirit More easily Than flesh is bruised and hurt, And only touch of love can heal C The wound. 507 508 Lois Tanner FRELIEF Society Presidents come in assorted sizes and shapes. Bishops revere them, stake presidents honor them—husbands put up with them. One of the prime requisites for her job is a strong back and a pair of willing hands. She is endlessly toting things like turkeys, boxes—always full—chairs, dishes, trees, casseroles—and occasionally—babies. The trunk of her car rotates between looking like the inside of a supermarket, a moving van, a china closet, a junk collector, and a rag bag. Some Relief Society presidents are weil-organized, some are half-organized, and some just "'play it by ear.'' All end up with approximately the same results. Relief Society presidents probably appreciate their families more than any other women on earth—because their moments are so precious. Each day is a challenge, to accomplish the impossible and still be home in time to meet that 2:45 school bus. All Relief Society presidents are most comfortable on their knees. And few there are who are not on very intimate terms with their Heavenly Father. Discouragement is her greatest enemy. Faith, her best friend. She is qualified for nothing in particular and everything in general. She is part business executive, janitor, teacher, psychologist, speech maker, counselor, cook, and defender. Her chief feminine virtues must be compassion, wisdom, enthusiasm, and courage. Relief Society presidents are a peculiar breed of womanhood. To them, a confidence is a sacred trust, a problem, something that can be overcome. No Relief Society president ever concerns herself with the prestige of her position, she is much too busy. Once in a while, a Relief Society president gets tired, but she never allows it to show. To do so is fatal. Rather, she quietly finds a day off and spends it praying for strength. Her rewards are treasures unperceived by others. These she stores in the very depths of her soul to draw out in quiet moments and enjoy. A sister's humble testimony, a project well done, a witness of renewed faith, a few grateful tears, the touch of a dear hand, the love she has earned from her faithful sisters. \ The Young Go Visiting Teaching Y ) j \ | <A. ~, | oe, Ella K. Hundsman On a beautiful autumn day in 1963, two Relief Society visiting teachers knocked on the door at the home of Brother and Sister Townsend Sampson in Glenwood Ward, Sevier Stake, Utah. Sister Sampson opened the door and welcomed the teachers with a special greeting, because the Sampsons were not able to get out much. However, this visit was indeed a surprise. The visiting teachers were Wayne Oldroyd, three years old, son of Mr. And Mrs. Jerold Oldroyd; and Brenda Parsons, four years old, daughter = "27R¢, Old974 one ren eee ne of Mr. And Mrs. M. L. Parsons. The teachers seemed to be well prepared. They had brought Relief Society Magazines with them, and the message was given in much detail, and with enthusiasm, although Brother Sampson remarked later that he could not recall exactly what it was about. However, both Brother and Sister Sampson knew that the lesson was good, since it came out of The Relief Society Magazine. The children asked for a pencil and wrote a message on some paper which they had brought with them. Brother Sampson said it was written in shorthand. Both children attend Relief Society meetings with their mothers and enjoy it very much. 509 Her Letter Evelyn Fijeldsted The rose you coaxed and trained to grow, Is rambling all along the fence; The pansy plants from sheltered grounds Are radiant with shy eloquence. The perennial poppy late last fall, Sent the winds to carry seed, And tiny plants are thriving now, Where only rain could meet their need. The leaves have cast their summer show, With scintillating lights and shade. And honeysuckle trumpets blow perfume, Down where the garden rocks were laid. When evening shadows softly fall, Sleepy songbirds seem to Say, The things that | would write to you — ''Come home again — this time to stay." 510 Caroline Eyring Miner The Day's Demands TRC man ever sank under the burden of the day. It is when tomorrow's burden is added to the burden of today that the weight is more than a man can bear." These are the words of George MacDonald. I often marvelled at the ease with which my mother could fall asleep. As soon as her head touched the pillow she was '"'dead to the world." You might be talking to her one minute and then you'd be startled to find her sound asleep the next. It was a wonderful quality, for she was tremendously vigorous, never idle a moment she was awake, and she needed the refreshment of profound sleep. I think it was more than that as I contemplate it now. She was at peace with the world and with herself. During her waking hours she did her best at helping lift. The world's burdens, and she knew she would do the same on the morrow. She took care of the day's demands, and then laid her burden down as she did her body at the close of day. She did not need to lie awake counting the undone tasks of an idle day, nor the accumulated problems of many days past or to come. "Cast Thy Bread"' 'Suid thy bread upon the water, and after many days it shall return to you multiplied many fold. Such is the general message of a bit of scripture. I can think of many examples of this. When I was a little girl, mother would send me to my aunt's for a start of live yeast when her own had died out. Then, in due course, mother's yeast was the mother lode for many neighborly starts. When her own yeast gave out, she borrowed from one who had borrowed a start from her. Much earlier than this, a similar cycle went on with fire. You lighted another's fire only to find that that person eventually returned the favor to you, when your flaming torch turned to gray ashes. Many times I have given geranium starts, or chrysanthemum starts to my neighbors, and in a few seasons have found my bread coming back to me many fold when my starts were gone, and their starts supplied my garden. Too Great Expectations OMe people are perpetually disappointed in the actions of their fellow men. They expect more of them than they get, or than it is possible for them to do. Parents are sometimes unrealistic in their expectations of their children's accomplishments. They seem to expect adult accomplishments from them, as indicated by the fact that they exhort them to "be like daddy," or "be a little lady," or "that's a little man," or "that's a little lady." Instead of just "'great expectations,' we sometimes expect too great expectations. It is wise to be realistic and not expect too much from others — adults or children. "Remember they aren't much better than you are," I heard it quipped recently. Greater harmony may be expected in our homes with more tolerance and with realistic expectations. To expect too little of children is unwise, of course. To do things for them because they cannot meet expected adult standards is crippling. How else can they learn, except by doing and by doing at their own level? Expectations, with just a little reach for accomplishment, are the ideal. If Judy can do a satisfactory job of washing the silverware, she may be expected to advance to plates and cups, and if Ray can keep his bed made, he can be expected to vacuum his room and keep it straightened up. Expectations, but not unrealistic or too great expectations, are the desirable goal. 511 as a way Of life Margaret F. Maxwell Ir seems in the past few years you can hardly open the pages of a favorite magazine or newspaper without being bombarded with some new, magical, and presumably painless way to slim down overnight from size 18% to a trim 12. You are cajoled by glamorous "before" and "after" pictures, and frightened by terrifying statistics. And so, resolutely, you embark on the banana and skim milk, the prune and cottage cheese, or the high-fat, lowcalorie diet. You count calories grimly for a few painful days or wecks, lose a few pounds and then weaken — and presto! You are nght back where you were to start with. "Oh, well," you sigh. "Being fat runs in the family." Or, better still, "I eat absolutely nothing! And still I put on weight." Is this the story of your life? If vou have been using these excuses 512 for allowing those extra pounds to creep up on you, ever so gradually, over the years, it's time you took a good look at yourself in the mirror, and then decided once and for all to do something about it — and permanently. Being overweight is simply a matter of taking into your body more food than it requires. Unneeded food is stored by your body as fat. And, on the other hand, if you eat less than your body requires, you are bound to lose weight. It is as simple as that. You need' not take a calorie list to meals with you, or meticulously put down the calorie count of every bite you put imto your mouth. Learn a few basic principles of right living, plus a few easy "tricks of the trade," and you're on your way to vibrant health and a new, slim figure. First of all, don't make dieting so unpleasant that it becomes a regime to which you cannot stick. Your new diet pattern must become a way of life, a new set of habits that you will maintain permanently, not just for a ten weeks' crash program, after which you heave a sigh of relief and go back to your old cating habits (and, incidentally, your old weight). So if you don't already know them, start by getting acquainted with the four basic food groups: milk, meat and eggs, vegetables and a and bread and cereals. Foods chosen from each of these groups should be included in your new diet program each day, both to maintain that glow of health that makes life worth living, and to help take off weight and keep it off. Group 1: Milk. Weight watchers favor skim milk, either liquid or powdered, a pint (or its powdered equivalent) each day. If you simply don't like skim milk, don't despair. Add powdered skim milk, at least one-half cup to other foods on your menu during the day. Mix it with whole-grain hot cereal; stir it up m cottage cheese, or treat yourself to a "malt" about a half-hour before mealtime to cut down your appetite. Make it this way: To one glass' of hot water (as hot as you enjoy drinking), add one-half cup powdered skim milk. Stir briskly until dissolved. Add eight drops noncaloric liquid sweetener (a real boon to weight-watchers), and cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. Try it! It's so delicious vow'll have the whole family joining you, and they'll never believe how few calories it contains. Cheese is also included in Group 1. Cottage cheese, the dieter's old standby, makes a good addition for DIET AS A WAY OF LIFE lunch, with or without fruit, either as a salad or plain. Group 2: Meat and Eggs. Get into the habit of eating a boiled or poached egg for breakfast cach morning. Do you know that you can double your egg calorie count simply by scrambling or frying it? As with the much maligned potato and bread, it is what you put on it that counts! Preferably at dinner, include one small serving of lcan meat. Beef, lamb, and poultry rate lower _ on the calorie scale than docs pork, and liver is exceedingly nutritious, as well as low in calories. But throw away your frying pan! Roast, braise, boil, or broil all cuts of meat for minimum calories. Group 3: Vegetables and Fruits. Go heavy on greens! With the exception of green peas, the green and the leafy vegetables and tomatoes are so low in calories that you can practically stuff yourself and not gain weight. But caution. Put a teaspoon of butter on your asparagus, two tablespoons of mayonnaise on your chef's salad bowl, and you may as well stop deceiving yourself about being on a diet. If you are one of those who think there is no use even tasting a green salad unless there is plenty of dressing on it, here are a few hints. First, try your salad (particularly coleslaw) with plain salt and vinegar, or salt and lemon juice as a seasoning. If that doesn't appeal to you, you might try either of the following low-calorig mayonnaise substitutes. 'The first is simple. It can be mixed on the spot as vou make your salad. LOW-CALORIE MAYONNAISE Blend together 4% cup skim milk, 4 tsp. Mayonnaise, and 1 tsp. Salt. 513 JULY 1964 Pour over shredded cabbage or other greens and toss to blend flavors. The second recipe has the unbelievably low total of three calories per teaspoon of dressing. THREE-CALORIE MAYONNAISE Beat one egg. Add 14 cup vinegar, 144 tsp. Salt, 1 tbsp. Mustard, and 1 tsp. Liquid non-caloric sweetener (or 6 saccharin tablets dissolved in vinegar). Beat until frothy. Add 14 cup mineral oil, a little at a time, beating thoroughly after each addition. Continue beating until mixture is very thick and will stand up in a rounded peak. Add more vinegar, salt, or sweetener to taste. Add more mineral oil to make about 1 pint dressing. If stored in refrigerator, it will keep indefinitely. So fill up on greens! Make a big green salad your mainstay for lunch, and eat cooked or raw tomatoes, asparagus, green beans, spinach, or other green vegetables for dinner. But you need not omit the heavier vegetables entirely. Occasionally, include a small serving of beets, carrots, green peas, and squash as variations on your vegetable menu. A small baked or boiled potato seasoned with salt and a teaspoon or less of butter or other shortening may also be a part of your diet each day. Fruits are essential for the dieter, both for food value and to serve as a pleasant substitute for rich, heavy desserts, which as you know have no place at any time in a reducing diet. Include each day one serving of citrus fruit or juice, or a cup of tomato juice. You may also cnjoy one or two small servings of fresh or canned fruit besides this. Avoid 514 dates, figs, raisins, and prunes; they are high in calories, and when eating canned fruit packaged in syrup, pour off the syrup before eating the fruit. Group 4: Bread and Cereals. Each day you may include either three slices of whole wheat bread or two slices of bread and one serving of whole-grain cooked cereal. You may allow yourself up to three teaspoons of butter or substitute during the course of the day; part of your allowance may be used on bread, and part as a seasoning for vegetables. Tat is all there is to it! Learn to be satisfied with small servings of the basic foods; cut off visible fat, pour off syrup from fruit, and, please, no seconds! Dieting is never easy at first; you have become accustomed to loading your stomach with excess food for so long that by now it is probably stretched. For a few days or weeks, it will expect and demand its usual oversupply of food. But if you are determined, in a few days you will find that smaller helpings of food will satisfy you. Eat slowly; take time to enjoy your food. 'This, too, helps to give you that full feeling. You may eat your daily allotment of food at any time of the day you wish; however, common sense will tell you that if your food is divided pretty evenly among three meals, vou will get through your day with less hunger and more energy. But remember — this eating pattern is not a trick diet guaranteed to take off twenty-five pounds in two months. This is a new way of life, and you must adopt it with the determination that you are never going back to your old eating habits again. While vou are trving to lose weight (and do check with your doctor before starting any diet), you must not only eat the essential foods specified, but you must also absolutely omit (no cheating now) candy, sodas, sundaes, soft drinks, rich desserts, cream, gravy, olives, bacon and other fat meat, and all fried foods. And hold to an absolute minimum any use of sugar and salad dressing. Between meals nibbling? Sometimes it can be helpful, if you mbble the nght things at the nght time. About a half hour before mealtime (especially if you are feeling particularly famished), try a steaming cup of beef or chicken bouillon; it has only seven calories to the cup. Or, once a day, a powdered milk "malt." These may help you to hold the line at mealtime, and say "no" more easily to the temptation foods. And, for a bedtime snack, a tall glass of hot lemonade sweetened with saccharin is a warming and cheering way to end your day. And, when cooking, particularly desserts, get into the habit of making a few substitutions which materially cut the calorie count of dishes without altering their taste or appearance. In virtually all recies, skim milk can be substituted for whole milk, and evaporated milk can be substituted for cream, reducing not only the calorie count but the cost of the dish. For high calorie dairy sour cream, substitute a like amount of evaporated milk soured by the addition of one tablespoon of vinegar for each cup of milk. Sour milk may be made in the same way, by the addition of one tablespoon of vinegar to one cup of skim milk. And, when a recipe calls for whipped cream, substitute whipped powdered milk made as follows: DIET AS A WAY OF LIFE POWDERED WHIPPED MILK TOPPING "2 ¢. Ice water 7, €. Powdered milk 7, C. Sugar, or 1 tbsp. Liquid non-caloric sweetener, or 24 tablets saccharin 2 tbsp. Lemon juice Chill small bowl and beater in refrigerator for one half hour before mixing. Put ice water and powdered milk in bowl. Beat until fluffy. Gradually add sugar, and then add lemon juice. Let stand in refrigerator a few minutes before using. Makes one cup whipped "cream." So, finally, you have your weight down to the desired level. It has been a long struggle, and you certainly don't want to have to go through that again. So, how are you going to hold the line? First of all, if you don't now own a bathroom scale, invest in one, if possible. And once you have your weight down to where you want it, get into the habit of stepping on the scale to check yourself once each day. Make it the same time every day, as your weight fluctuates normally from two to three pounds during the course of the day. Probably your most flattering time to weigh will be first thing in the morning before breakfast. Then, if you discover that you have put on a pound, do something about it immediately. Don't wait until the pound has become ten. It's no chore to take off one pound, but it can be real misery to get rid of more. Good luck to you on your new program! And as your scales and your mirror tell you of new beauty and the robust energy and health that goes with right choice of foods, vou will be glad you stopped counting calories and got acquainted, instead, with good nutrition. 515 How to Remodel Bonnie S. Hansen 1 had such a nice Tattersall plaid suit. The jacket was not worn badly, and when we moved to a much colder climate, my need for winter clothes increased. I had pondered over and over the problem of this fitted jacket, which had shoulder pads and wide shoulder seams. One day I took a piece of tailor's chalk and started to mark where I would like to change the jacket, and this diagram represents the resulting outline. I removed all the buttons, sleeves, and collar, and altered the front as illustrated in the diagram. Now the remodeled new jacket and the altered skirt make a very useful outfit which is quite stylish. The old skirt needed a slight 516 alteration. It had a 3-inch side vent on each side, and I sewed up these openings. Also, it had to be taken in a little on the hips for a better fit. The top, or weskit, as it turned out to be, was faced with the same material as was used in making a new blouse to go with the outfit. The color used for the blouse and facing matched one of the colors prominent in the plaid. I top-stitched the weskit all around the edges, but it could have been made so that a narrow edge of the facing might be seen on the outside. New buttons in a color to match the facing were used. In the plaid design of my suit, the background color was navy blue, with a small plaid of red and gray, and I used red facing for the weskit, red material for the blouse, and red buttons. "Train Up a Child" Dorothy Hicks T rain up a child in the way he should go," the book of Proverbs instructs, ''and when he is old, he will not depart therefrom." My husband and I unwittingly put this instruction to the test recently and found that it, like the other instructions given in the scriptures, really works. We had occasion to go out early one evening, and left instructions with the baby sitter to put the children to bed. It was late when we returned home, and all three pajama-clad cherubs were snuggled under their blankets, sound asleep. Peace! It's wonderful! We thought. For once we could get a good night's sleep! Unfortunately, my husband tripped over a chair in the dark and awakened the baby, who had to be quieted with cuddling and a bottle. This accomplished, we again. Headed for the bedroom and that longed-for good night's sleep. Just as Morpheus was about to carry us off, a pair of plastic-soled feet came pattering toward our room. They belonged to our three-year-old daughter, who whimpered that she had had a bad dream and wanted to make sure mommy and daddy were home. She was reassured that all was well and was requested to go back to bed. "But I can't, Mommy," she said. "I haven't said my prayers yet." There in the darkness, we knelt together to help her thank her Heavenly Father for her blessings and ask his protecting care over her during the night. When the prayer was finished, she pattered back to her bed and fell peacefully asleep. HIer parents knelt a moment longer to thank the Lord for this example of a child's faith, and to request continued guidance in training up this child and her brothers in the way they should go, so that when they are old, they will not depart therefrom. Grandmother's Chair Carolle Denton in the rhythm Of the heartbeat, Feel the rocking of the chair. Tc the anthem Of remembrance, Dream your dreams while rocking there. Love abiding, Fears go hiding, When the rocking tune is sung. Movement sighing, Lullabying, Rocking chair for old and young. 517 * Oe, te atte 'meer. O* we + 7S Delilah D avis Pike — Her Hobbies Bring Happiness < Delilah Davis Fuller Pike, Sait Lake City, Utah, has made a lifetime hobby of making articles of exquisite handicraft. She is an expert in designing and stitching quilts, and her afghans display a discriminating use of color and integration of patterns. She crochets bedspreads, tablecloths, doilies, and edgings in intricate and lovely designs, many of them being her own creations. She has made many decorative pillows and other gift items. At present she is compieting a project of making a quilt for each of her five daughters. Much of her work has been contributed to the displays for bazaars in the Eleventh Ward of Grant Stake. She has served as a visiting teacher for more than fifty years. Her home and her garden are beautifully cared for, and she takes special pride in growing roses. 518 The Sego Lily — Flower of the Pioneers Celia Luce THE people were hungry. It was early spring in 1848 in Salt Lake Valley. Nearly 2,000 pioneers had very little food and faced starvation. The Indians were hungry, too. They dug thistle roots and the sweet bulb of the sego lily. Hungry pioneers watched them and began digging the sego bulbs, also. The sego lily was used for food by pioneers in early settlements all over the State. My grandmother, Lorena Washburn Larsen, lived in early days in Manti. In her autobiography she describes how they used to dig the sego bulbs. "In my childhood days our whole group of children used to go east of town, each carrying a sego digger. It was a piece of wood sharpened on one end, and flat on the other. We would go just east of town and look for Segos, which were quite plentiful. When we found them we each went. To digging by putting the sharp end of the stick into the ground close beside the sego and pressing down on the flat end of the digger. When the stick was far enough in the ground to suit us, we just pushed it to one side, and up came the segos. Then we ate them. Oh, how we enjoyed hunting them." In Utah this lovely flower, the State flower, is called the sego lily. In most of the West it is called the mariposa lily. Mariposa means butterfly in Spanish. Sego or mariposa lilies come in many shades. Utah's state flower has the scientific name of Calochortus nuttallii. Some of the bright lavender or red-orange ones are named Calochortus Kennedyi. Under any name it is a beautiful flower. 519 Writing | Five Janice Dixon Look at my book!" my four-yearold son, Danny, might say to you if you were a visitor in our home. He is very proud of his book, a book all about him. You would be lucky to get away without seeing all five scrapbooks, one for each of our children. Just another photo album, you might say. It is a photo album, but we use heavy, bound scrapbooks and make them an up-to-date life coverage of each child separately. This way there is no fighting for pictures when the children get older. We divide the pictures equally now. We also include important happenings 520 Books & in their lives, such as birth certifcates (photostats), blessings, special letters from grandparents, and an anecdotal history of each child. In Danny's book you might read: "Today your father went in a plane to New Mexico. Danny watched the plane soar into the sky. "Where's Daddy going?' he asked. "Down to New Mexico,' I answered. 'No, Mommy, he's going up to New Mexico.' " We are careful to include full dates on every picture and incident. First words are interesting to all children, they want to know exactly what they did when they were babies. Writing them at once in their scrapbooks taxes the parents' memories less, and the little stories can be told the same way twice and not forgotten. Charles, now eight, still giggles over the story he wrote when he was two and a half, about his grasshopper: My Daddy bring me a grasshopper. My grasshopper jumps on the rug. No, no, Ste'en. Don't eat my grasshopper. My put my grasshopper in bottle.. My grasshopper eats grass. My give my grasshopper more grass. Where my grasshopper? No, no, Ste'en. Don't eat my grasshopper. No, no, Ste'en. My grasshopper — all gone. When our fifth baby was born, we wrote each of the children's reactions to him and included them in each scrapbook. It read something like this: "Today we brought Douglas home from the hospital. Two-year-old Lucy ran to the car to meet us and thought it was wonderful that we brought a little doll for her. 'Then he cried, and it took us some time before she would come close to him again. Four-year-old Danny was also pleased with the baby and wants to hold him all the time. Six-year-old Steven doesn't admit that he likes the new baby, but he has brought eleven of his friends in to see him with the announcement, 'Look what mama layed!' Eight-year-old Charles figures it's an everyday occurrence, and after one look at the baby, he shrugged, 'Just what I expected,' and went off to play." We try to include one or two of the children's best drawings for each I'M WRITING FIVE BOOKS vear. The rest of the pictures and drawings are very carefully glued into an old magazine which gives each one his own inexpensive, yet permanent scrapbook of drawings. I was getting ready fora party. I made a special apple pudding dessert which Charles especially likes. "Mother," he said, "when are you going to start that recipe book?" What recipe book? "When I get married I want my wife to know - exactly what I like!" And so, we have added special recipes to Charles' book. The children have used _ their scrapbooks so much that they have torn some of the pages in the books. Celluloid tape becomes brittle with time, but I have learned one good way to repair these books, and all other books. Use plastic glue and paste it on the tear. Put wax paper on both sides and close the book. Let it dry over night. 'Then just peel off the wax papers and. The tear is fixed, stronger than ~before. The books are used so often that the regular mounting corners do not hold. We glue the items in permanently and use the mounting corners only for color and decoration. We include the child's ancestral history, with pictures as far back as we can collect. Because each child was named for someone in our family, we tell them stories about their namesakes, and write it in their books. We want our children to be proud of their names and their heritage. We feel we have accomplished this partly through the individual books for each of our children. 521 . Arity, love, faith, and tolerance ate th strengthen our understanding. Acceptance f life's Problems, With a fy] attempt at solution, INCreases mental and €motiona] Stature. Tayer, our definite link with God, Will, when the time is right Ting calightenment an Inspiration, Through the span of trial and "TTOr, we reach the " Carning to endure and the and our fel]? Progtess of oy OW men. Thus Cternity beckons Oo enefit of Ourselves T Second estate has been fulfilled and Life's demands are strenuous, but Gog', lan told us long ago that they woulg be — thus the Constant challe 8¢ to our exist ce, The deer C of grace employed in Meeting our obligations will determine the sum OF spiritual] Strength and ignity — the Mcreaseq Knowledge and love that we acquire ough our Sacrificial] experience. This wil] be the sence of our earthly Existence added "nto ourselves to endure hrough life eterna] — 4 blessed Privil WHEN One grows old, he rapidly — th at minutes, hours by years. 522 UnderBGG me ra ae mf / Age standin, 7 fi "i jie to So 2 yt —— 7 ° Ph \ = \ Ste ef-s Wen., ' Sy ote ewer Oo. 4 eel! I Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, travel across the plains with their own outfit, in the company of Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena's fiance dies at Winter Quarters, and still bitter and sorrowing, she refuses to take an interest in Lon, who has loved her since their first meeting. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, and, later, they decide to go to San Bernardino, California, with the saints who plan to settle there. Selena and Lon also are in the company, but are separated for - most of the journey after the division of the company. Alfred Quale, who travels with the Blodgetts and Selena, continues an ardent courtship of Selena who appears to enjoy Alfred. Chapter 6 Wirth the heat and discomforts of desert travel behind them, the Lyman company moved on in the last stages of the journey to California. There were new problems, however. The way was rough, tongues and reaches were broken out of the wagons, and stops had to be made for repairs. The timber along their route came in handy many times. The animals were greatly weakened by the long, arduous trip, and sometimes as many as twenty oxen were yoked to a wagon to pull it over a particularly steep place. This, of course, slowed the journey. Near the end of the trip Brother Pratt and his missionary group decided to leave the Lyman group and forge on ahead. He rode back bidding goodbye to all with whom he had traveled thus far. "So you're going on ahead?" Josiah asked, having heard the plan. "The other missionaries and I are anxious to be on our way. Since there is no particular reason for the rest of you to make great haste now and every reason to give your animals a little time to rest and eat, we are moving on in the morning to the Chino Ranch." "The Lord bless you, Brother Pratt," said Josiah, shaking the 523 JULY 1964 hand of this man whose journey had barely begun. "He always does," answered Brother Parley. "Our appointment is to teach the restored gospel to those waiting to hear it in the Islands of the Sea. We must get started with all diligence as soon as possible." "It takes great faith to go, Brother Parley." "Tt will take great faith to stay in California and build up that part of the Lord's vineyard," answered Brother Pratt. "It doesn't matter where we labor, Josiah." SeELENA sat nearby, listening. The words had a familiar ring. She had heard them many times before, but they had never struck her with such force. Nauvoo, Great Salt Lake, California, perhaps the locality didn't matter nearly as much as other things which she had been overlooking. Her mind was drawn back to the conversation between this apostle of the Lord and _ her brother-in-law. "Yes, we plan to send a wagon back with supplies as soon as we get to Los Angeles,' Brother Pratt was saying. ""We know how low the food supply is. It seems a bit un-Christian to have such concern for the people far away in the Islands and at the same time fail to take care of our own." Josiah reached down from the wagon and shook hands with the man on horseback. "Good luck to you, Josiah. May we meet again." Elder Pratt touched his hat and nodded slightly toward Belle and Selena. They watched him ride away, knowing they had been in the presence of a great man. 524 The rich grasses were welcomed by the animals, many of whom were so thin that their ribs could be counted, and by their owners, giving them assurance that they would have enough animals to make a beginning when they arrived. And at long last they did. It was June 11, 1851, when the company paused on the edge of the San Bernardino Valley and began looking for a place which would be their permanent settlement. Food supplies were at a low ebb, but the missionary who had gone ahead with Brother Pratt returned with his wagon loaded. The newcomers were as interested in the talk about their entrance into California as they were in the food he had brought. "What are people saying? What is their attitude?' The questions were asked many times, but the missionary understood, knowing their concern as_ to whether the experiences suffered by Church members in Missouri and Illinois were to be repeated. "The news is geod," the missionary told them. 'The feeling seems to be very favorable concerning our making a permanent settlement. The Angelenos are agreeable, even anxious that we do stop in the San Bernardino Valley, thinking that it will provide a buffer for them."' "Buffer?" Josiah replied. "What do they mean?" "Well," replied the missionary, smiling, 'I've heard several of them say this settlement by the Mormons is going to be a big help in keeping the Indians from sweeping in from their desert haunts to plunder their settle- ments. You will be between the Indian territory and them, and they are taking some comfort in this fact." Knowing Selena's constant fear of Indians, Belle watched her but could tell little as to whether the missionary's message was having much effect upon her. Outwardly Selena appeared unmoved by the words, which was just as she wished it to be. She knew well enough that, even though the long journey had been completed successfully without the loss of one human life, there were many other problems besetting the leaders, and her small ones were best kept to herself. As the Lyman company caught up with the advance group, a grove of sycamores offered the first haven of shelter in California to the new settlers. There was plenty of water and feed and the near -starved animals were turned out for their well-earned days of eating and drinking. They must be in a condition to do the farm work that lay ahead. For the leaders there was also the immediate question of where to make the permanent settlement. "Like to come along, Lon?" asked Brother Rich. "We've got to see Williams as soon as possible and settle the details if he's still willing to sell his Chino Ranch." Lon wondered at Brother Rich's statement. He had thought the purchase all but completed. Oh, he well knew there was little money to complete the transaction, but Lon had not anticipated any change in the attitude of the seller, as Brother Rich evidently did. And Brother Rich proved to be entirely correct. YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING "Then you have changed your mind entirely about selling the ranch?" Lon noted the note of deep disappointment in Brother Lyman's voice. "I have your letter here, written by your own hand in December, last. You were more than a little anxious to dispose of your holdings. Here, read it for yourself." "Tf know what it says," Williams replied, brushing the proffered sheet of paper aside, "that 'I make this proposition in consequence of ill health, and not being able to manage things as I would wish.' But the months have passed, my health is considerably improved, and as I said, gentlemen, I have at the present no wish to sell." '"'Why can't we just homestead, Lon?" This was Belle talking. She wasn't ready even now, thought Selena, to want to move on to land already under cultivation, not Belle. If the land had ever felt the point of another's plow it would be, in a measure, spoiled for Belle. ""Why can't we just take up some land — of our own?" "All the productive land around is pretty well taken up," Lon replied. '"'We must have land that will sustain this large group of people. There is one more possibility right now, Josiah," he said, turning again to her husband. "J. D. Hunter, who was a captain of the Battalion, is now Indian Agent in Southern California. His suggestion, when he met us after leaving Williams' place yesterday, was to go see the Lugo brothers and make an offer for the Rancho San Bernardino." 525 JULY 1964 Belle's hopes began to rise. Not that she was averse to having her baby in the wagon box. This wouldn't inconvenience her much more than all the traveling had done. It was just that she liked things done in an orderly fashion, and it seemed right and proper to her that her child be born in the permanent settlement, now that they had reached California, and not in some temporary camp. "You said brothers?" asked Josiah. ""Then that means we have more than one to deal with in attempting to buy their land." "That's right," agreed Lon. "Hunter says there are three of them, Jose del Carmen, Vincente, and Don Antonio Maria Lugo. But he also says that Don Antonio is the boss of the outfit and what he says goes. So all we have to do is convince him that the Mormons need his ranch more than he does, and after this is done, there is the small matter of getting the money to make the down payment." E arty in July a copy of the Los Angeles Star was circulated throughout the camp. The piece in which they were most interested read: The statement that three hundred wagons from Deseret had arrived in the Valley of San Bernardino was an exaggeration. The actual number is one hundred forty. They are not all Mormons, but many of them are, having crossed the plains in the fall of 1850 and wintered in Salt Lake. A large portion of the Mormons will make this Valley their permanent residence. A few will go on to the Sandwich Islands, while others will locate at San Diego from which point the supplies for the Salt Lake settlements will be forwarded. We learn that they are negotiating for the purchase of the Rancho San 526 Bernardino, from the family of Don Antonio Maria Lugo, by whom it is held. This is the site of the Old Mission of San Bernardino. Here, probably, this interesting people will make their first establishment on the shores of the Pacific. Lon closed the paper and folded it. "This is quite different from the newspaper notices we received in Illinois and Missouri. It is a relief to see this in print. At least we're not labeled undesirables from the start, though it may very well come later," he added. ""You've been pessimistic about this whole thing from the beginning, Lon. Are you sorry you came?" asked Josiah. Lon looked past Josiah to a shady spot in the grove where he could see Selena and Alfred sitting close together on a huge log. She was laughing gaily at something Quale had said. Lon watched for only a brief moment, then he looked again at Josiah. "Not sorry, exactly, but I find myself wondering whether I did myself any good in coming." WJoOsIAH understood. "I don't understand Selena," he said. "I doubt if she understands herself. She will say something that makes both me and Belle feel that she's seen enough of Quale. Then I see her with him like this and wonder whether she will be telling us they are getting married." "When that happens,' Lon said quietly, "I'll take one horse and a pack and hit the trail back to Salt Lake." "Lon! You wouldn't! You couldn't pull out and leave the settlement!" "The big job was getting here, Josiah. I stayed to see that finished. You say I can't leave. When Selena decides to make her decision, I've already told her this, that if it is in favor of Quale, I'm ready for the return trip." A few days later Lon left the camp for a time. He had been called to accompany the leaders to the northern part of the State in an effort to raise money for the down payment on the ranch. Josiah, too, had had a chance to make the trip and would have liked very much to go, but thoughts of Belle being left without him at that time, made him decide to stay in camp with her. Josiah thought it best not to mention to Belle that he had been asked to make the trip. If he gave the slightest inkling that he wished to be going along, he knew how insistent she would be that he do so. This was going to be his first son (it had never occurred to him that it might be a girl), and whether Belle thought it was necessary or not for him to be present, Josiah had no intention of being away when his son was born. KEEP your eyes open, Lon," Josiah told him on the morning Lon rode over to say goodbye. "T've always wanted to see some of the gold diggings. How far are you going?" "There are a number of Mormons working in both San Francisco and Sacramento. We plan to visit Mormon Island and any other mining camps where we hear of members of the Church being located." Lon removed his right glove, holding his reins lightly in his left hand and leaned down to YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING shake hands with Josiah. "Good-bye, Josiah," he _ said. '""See you in a few weeks." "Good-bye, Lon. I'll take good care of Selena while you are away." Lon replaced his glove and glanced toward the wagon where he could see Belle and Selena watching. "T have an idea," he said, "'that you're going to have plenty of help." He touched his hat in a farewell gesture to the two women and rode off at a gallop. The parting puzzled Josiah, but then he could not know, and Lon would be the last to tell, of his attempt to see Selena the evening before. Lon had decided that perhaps he had been too reluctant to make a good fight for the girl he loved. Yet he had a great fear of pushing himself in where he might not be wanted. Then, suddenly, he had decided to make an attempt to see her alone before he had to leave. He had shaved, cleaned up the best he could, and walked through the grove toward Josiah's wagon. There was a full moon lighting the valley and Lon breathed deeply of the fresh night air. The white trunks of the sycamores stood out plainly in the moonlight. And then Lon saw them. He hadn't intended to spy but when he saw Quale take Selena in his arms, Lon stood transfixed. It was a_ lingering kiss, and Lon suffered the agony of every second. Then he had turned, moving quickly and silently, glad that they had not noticed him, and returned to his own camp and a sleepless night. (To be continued) 527 Violets Are For Remembrance Carol Mattson Miay I relate my experience which happened because of my overwhelming success in following the instructions given by Irene Dunlap in her article '"'Let's Grow African Violets," June 1963. On the death of my sweet mother November 12, 1961, a dear and thoughtful neighbor presented us with a beautiful, blooming African violet. I gave it all the tender, loving care to which Sister Dunlap referred, until approximately April 1963, when I could see all my efforts were in vain and unless something was done, my plant would not live to continue to be a living tribute to my mother. (The Magazine to which I refer had not yet been received by me.) I am not one with a green thumb and do not have house plants, but I became attached to this little plant as it was an everyday reminder of my mother, so I wanted desperately to have it live. I took it to a specialist in the raising of African violets, supposing it would be no problem to get a start. After looking sadly at the plant, he remarked, ""There's no life left in this plant, why don't you just buy another?" I explained its importance to me and was crushed when he said, "They are just like people, after they get so old, they die, too!" I had only one plant, and more determined than ever I came home and cut the remaining leaves off and put them in water, hoping to get a start within a month or so, and when I had only one leaf left, my Relief Society Magazine came and opened new avenues on plant culture to me. I followed the instructions on propagation to the letter, as well as I could with what I had left — one leaf! It has taken many months of tender, loving care, but I am now enjoying the fruits of my labor, and my plant has come into its own, and possibly this week it will blossom. There are several starts which I am going to take off as instructed. 528 JULY 1964 Yakima Stake (Washington), Yakima Ward Singing Mothers Present Program of Christmas Music, December 22, 1963 Front row, left to right: Edith Dyson, Evelyn Smith; Doloris Holden; Margaret Webster; Dorothy Throssell, chorister; Marie Peyton, organist; Edna Dearinger; Jane Wilks; Jean Rude; Barbara Blackhurst; Jeanette Bowman. Back row, left to right: Lynn Bos; Connie Creek; Olga Paradis; Mabel Brack; Joan Balholm; Carole Clifton; Luella Howell, President, Yakima Ward Relief Society; Margaret Nichols; Rosemary Coalwell. LaVern G. Jackson, President, Yakima Stake Relief Society, reports: ""The Singing Mothers of Yakima Ward presented a program of Christmas music, December 22, 1963. At this time the Christmas story was told in scripture and song, narrated by Archie Buys. The Singing Mothers also furnished the music for the Yakima Stake service held on Christmas day. These Singing Mothers enjoyed their weekly practices and look forward to presenting the music for sacrament meeting each month." Southern States Mission, South Georgia District Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Seated: organist Gertrude Robertson; next to Sister Roberston, standing: Katie Henry, President, South Georgia District Relief Society; at Sister Henry's right: Mary Joy Crouch, conductor of the chorus. Rene Welch, fifth from the right on the front row, and MarDean Bell, ninth from the right on the third row, are counselors to Sister Henry. Elva G. Ravsten, former supervisor, Southern States Mission Relief Society, reports: "These sisters have furnished music for many occasions — district conferences, inter-faith socials, and just recently for the district Relief Society conference. They are a very happy group, and they love to sing. Many have been inspired by the beautiful music they have rendered. Sister Robertson is indeed an inspiration to the sisters. Her many years of studying and teaching music are now being shared with this group of mothers. Avis Waters is the assistant conductor. Avis and Mary Joy are daughters of Sister Robertson, and they have furnished duets and trios for many funerals, as well as church meetings. The Southern States Mission is very proud of these sisters, as well as of the Singing Mothers in all five of the districts throughout the mission. These sisters love the gospel, and they love to share it with others." The new supervisor of Relief Society in the Southern States Mission is Mamie Priscilla Adams Hunsaker. Clearfield Stake (Utah) Poster Display Sets Theme for Visiting Teacher Convention, February 7, 1964 Left to right: Ora Barlow, President, Clearfield Stake Relief Society; Opal Wood, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Barlow reports: "This spiritually rewarding visiting teacher convention used as a theme "Truths to Live by From the Doctrine and Covenants— Jewels of Strength.' Beautiful music was rendered by the Singing Mothers under direction of the stake music department, with Mary Blood and Evelyn Butler as directors. "The poster display set the theme for the convention. It was prepared by Opal Wood, and represents the eight visiting teacher messages for this year. The messages are presented in poster form, with corresponding pictures, along with a miniature model of the Prophet Joseph Smith, as shown in the shadow box, praying in the sacred grove, depicting the channel by which all the revelations were given. "Sister Mary Ann Adams, who is eighty years old and has been a visiting teacher for fifty-eight years, was honored, and also her granddaughter Carol Adams Kilburn, the youngest visiting teacher in the stake. All visiting teachers who have served for more than twenty-five years were also honored. At the close of the convention, a delicious luncheon was served to approximately 200 sisters." 530 + CON, Egy, JULY 1964 Scottish Mission Visiting Teachers at Convention March 14, 1964 At the right, former mission presidency: standing (wearing white sweater), Rachel Wilde, Secretary-Treasurer; Helen Easton, Counselor; seated: Kathleen S. Farnsworth, former President; right of Sister Farnsworth (front): Elizabeth McKittrick, Counselor. Sister Farnsworth reports: "A delightful convention and social honoring the visiting teachers of the Scottish Mission was held March 14, 1964, at the mission home. The sisters who attended felt that this was a great success, both in spirit and in numbers present. Most of the sisters present were newly called to serve as visiting teachers. Representatives from most of our twenty branches enjoyed the program and received valuable instructions. Members from each branch present participated in the program which consisted of a tribute and a response; a play 'The Improper and the Proper Ways to Do Visiting Teaching;' 'The Key,' a parable of visiting teaching; a question and answer game on visiting teaching; musical numbers; and the film 'Unto the Least of These.' As a special favor, a daffodil corsage (buttonhole) was pinned on each visiting teacher. Refreshments were served. The mission board members were hostesses for this convention." Ruby Mildred Haight, wife of the new mission president, David B. Haight, is the present supervisor of Relief Society in the Scottish Mission. Bonneville Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention November 21, 1963 Left to right: Fay Geary, President, Thirty-Third Ward Relief Society (whose ward had the largest number of visiting teachers attending the convention); Mary Bateman, who has served for fifty-two years; Jeanetta Christensen, who has a record of thirty-nine years of one hundred per cent visiting teaching. Lucretia M. Evans, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society, reports: "The visiting teacher convention was held in conjunction with leadership meeting. Five Relief Society General Board members living within the boundaries of Bonneville Stake, paid glowing tributes to the visiting teachers, each relating some event to stress the importance of the visiting teacher in the Relief Society organization. "Special tribute was given to our stake visiting teacher message leader Melvira Barlow. Awards of ceramic dolls, typifying visiting teachers, and made by the stake work meeting leader Merelda McKay, were presented as follows: Thirty-Third Ward for having the highest percentage of visiting teachers in attendance; Alberdina Gruman of Douglas Ward for fifty-five years service as a visiting teacher; Mary Bateman of Garden Park Ward for fifty-two years as a visiting teacher; and Jeanetta Christensen of Yale Ward for serving thirtynine years without interruption. "A delectable brunch was served to 251 sisters following the program." 532 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 533 PERE v0, g 9 MS RES A SSPE! UE South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers and Visiting Teacher Message Leaders, at Leadership Meeting January 24, 1964 Standing at the left, front: Betty T. Erekson, Secretary-Treasurer, South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society; Momo T. Ushio, First Counslor; Luella W. Finlinson, President; Helen P. Erekson, Second Counselor. Sister Finlinson reports: "The South Cottonwood Stake is very proud of the visiting teaching record established by its eight wards in 1963. Each ward had 100 percent visiting teaching for every month of the year. We know that this was accomplished only through the faithful cooperation of each individual visiting teacher and the devoted supervisors who ably assisted the presidents in this accomplishment. We know that there is a definite correlation between a successful visiting teacher program and the strength of a ward Relief Society organization. We are thrilled with the attendance at visiting teacher meetings that these wards have had. Our stake average for the year was sixty-one per cent, with an over-all forty-five per cent average attendance at the other meetings. This represents an increase of four per cent over 1962. The following presidents of the wards who accepted the challenge a year ago are: South Cottonwood, Mary D. Twitchell; Second, Evah C. Green; Third, Phyllis N. Jensen; Fourth, Patricia E. Martinson; Fifth, Raymona P. Erickson; Sixth, Marion A. Reed, Seventh, Maxine H. Nelson; and Eighth, Mary W. Lovell. "At the leadership meeting each ward was given an open-book trophy, with its record of the past year's visiting teaching record of 100 per cent engraved on one page. On the other page was engraved its 100 per cent Magazine quota record. The parent ward, South Cottonwood, has had a 100 per cent visiting teaching record since 1949, and the Second Ward since it was divided in 1952." 534 Weber Stake ( Utah), Ogden Second Ww at Anniversary Party, > Dora Wder, elghty-two, 535 Ws, gSawwW2) NS ', f~ Ey _ Se & a =% THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 57—The Vision Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 76:1-49) For First Meeting, October 1964 Objective: To study the origin of Section 76; its teachings concerning eternal progression; the vision of God and Christ; and the meaning of Satan's victory and his defeat. INTRODUCTION Of all the revelations received by the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning man and, particularly, his destiny, probably none other equals Section 76. In discussing the latter-day books of scripture, President Wilford Woodruff made the following statement: When I read these solemn, these eternal declarations made through the mouth of Joseph Smith, my heart swells with gratitude and praise to God, my heavenly Father. I consider that the Doctrine and Covenants, our Testament, contains a code of the most solemn, the most Godlike proclamations ever made to the human family. I will refer to the "Vision" alone, as a revelation which gives more light, more truth, and more principle than any revelation contained in any other book we ever read. It makes plain to our understanding our present condition, where we came from, why we are here, and where we are going to. Any man may know 536 through that revelation what his part and condition will be. For all men know what laws they keep, and the laws which men keep here will determine their position hereafter; they will be preserved by those laws and receive the blessings which belong to them (Journal of Discourses 22:146-147). On the day this great revelation was received, February 16, 1832, the Prophet wrote his own evaluation of what the Lord had made known to him. The purity of this revelation witnesses the fact that that document is a transcript from the records of the eternal world. The sublimity of the ideas; the purity of the language; the scope for action; the continued duration for completion, in order that the heirs of salvation may confess the Lord and bow the knee; the rewards for faithfulness, and the punishments for sins, are so much beyond the narrow-mindedness of men, that every honest man is constrained to exclaim: "Jt came from God." (DHC Il-252-258). The foregoing statements suggest to the reader what is in store for him as he reads Section 76. Surely, when one compares the ideas of the post-death life, which were extant in the Prophet's day and which are also present today, with this revelation and related revelations, one must acknowledge that man's. Uninspired conceptions of the future life were truly narrow and severe. How, actually, is it possible for man to know of the future except from him who knows the future of mankind? This whole problem of why man exists, whether or not there is purpose in life, and man's destiny, has piqued man's curiosity over the ages. There comes to most people at some time in their lives serious consideration of these important questions. HOW RECEIVED While Joseph Smith was revising the Bible by inspiration, aided by Sidney Rigdon as scribe, the Lord touched the eyes of their understandings (D&C 76:19) and, in open vision, they beheld the glories of the eternal worlds, and the darkness reigning in the regions of the damned. The work of "translation" in the gospel of John, fifth chapter, verse 29, was the impetus for the inquiry which brought forth the Lord's answer to their query regarding the resurrection of the hosts of mankind, both good and evil, mentioned in that verse. (Ibid., verse 15.) This revelation brought forth the truth regarding man's destiny. In general, "Christianity" taught that hope for the blessings of heaven was denied those who did not believe in Jesus Christ, and that an everlasting LESSON DEPARTMENT doom awaited the unbeliever regardless of the opportunity or lack of opportunity for acknowledging Christ. Such a_ belief would raise questions regarding the resurrection of all people, rather than a favored few. The flood of truth received through this revelation regarding a resurrection for the "evil" as well as the "good" brought the true gospel's message of hope to the world. An account of some details concerning the receiving of this revelation is given by Elder Philo Dibble, as follows: The vision which is recorded in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants was given at the house of "Father Johnson," in Hiram, Ohio, and during the time that Joseph and Sidney were in the spirit and saw the heavens open, there were other men in the room, perhaps twelve, among whom I was one during a part of the time— probably two-thirds of the time,—I saw the glory and felt the power, but did not see the vision. The events and conversation, while they were seeing what is written (and many things were seen and related that are not written), I will relate as minutely as is necessary. Joseph would, at intervals, say: "What do I see?" as one might say while looking out the window and beholding what all in the room could not see. Then he would relate what he had seen or what he was looking at. Then Sidney replied, "I see the same." Presently Sidney would say "What do I see?" and would repeat what he had seen or was seeing, and Joseph would reply, "I see the same." This manner of conversation was repeated at short intervals to the end of the vision, and during the whole time not a word was spoken by any other person. Not a sound nor motion made by anyone but Joseph and Sidney, and it seemed to me that they never moved a joint or limb during the time I was there, which I think was over an hour, and to the end of the vision. 537 JULY 1964 Joseph sat firmly and calmly all the time in the i glory, but Sidney sat limp and pale, ingly, 'Sidney is not used. To it as I am" (Juvenile Instructor 27: 303- 304). ETERNAL PROGRESSION The first ten verses of Section 76 reveal the great blessings that are promised the faithful. The revelation opens with the proclamation that beside Jesus Christ there is no Savior. There follows a message of assurance to those who will accept him as_ their Savior. It is based upon the revealed truth that Jesus is infinite in his knowledge, his ways, and _ his Purposes, which never fail. (Verses 2-3.) Notwithstanding the Lord God has passed through an earth life eternity. (Verse 4.) The ultimate destiny of the exalted is eternal progression, Who <" For those who are determined to endure faithfully, there is the premise of increased knowledge concerning God's ways, his purposes, even the hidden things of his kingdom. In this life man may learn many of the mysteries of the kingdom. But even so, he 538 learns only an infinitesimal] amount of what there is to learn, VISION OF GOD AND CHRIST Following the reason for receiying the "Vision" (D&C 76:11- 18), again the eyes of Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon were Opened to understand God's glory. Latter-day Saints are the most richly blessed people in al] the world. No other people have so much support for their belief in God and his Purposes. In addition to the grandeur of the First Vision received in the spring cf 1820, this revelation stands as a monument of assurance that men in cur generation have received a sig one of the latter days: we give of him: For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father— That by him, and through him, and of him, the Joseph Smith was not alone in receiving this testimony. Two men, seeing the same things, give lie to some claims that the testimonies of J oseph Smith were or, as the scriptures he mouth witnesses shall] every word be established" (II Cor. 13:1), Many things may be learned from this testimony: (1) Joseph Smith was not a fraud. He subsequently went to a martyr's grave in defense of his knowledge of God and his purposes in the eternities; (2) earth's inhabitants are the begotten sons and daughters of God; (3) not only are we of this earth his children, but also other worlds are inhabited by his spirit offspring; (4) the real basis for the brotherhood of man, which, if accepted, could bring peace and_ understanding among men, must be founded upon this knowledge: (5) a true understanding of why we should be obedient to gospel principles is discovered in our relationship to God and the purpose of this life. THE PAST Section 76 reveals the past as well as the future. (Verses 12- 13.) Next in vision these brethren beheld the time when Lucifer rebelled against the Father and the Son and thus became the fallen one. (Verses 25-27.) He is known as the one who sought to take the kingdom from the Fa'her and the Son. (D&C 76:28, 29, 36-38.) His purpose is to overcome those who follow righteousness. Lucifer's efforts are expressed in terms of warfare, even assaults from all quarters— he "encompasseth them round about" (verse 29). The notion that Satan exists only in the minds of men is denied by this revelation. The testimony of the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon is that Lucifer is a real spirit-being whose influence is felt for evil and whose mission is to despoil, lead into degradation, overcome the saints, and, eventually, claim as his own all who will succumb LESSON DEPARTMENT to his enticements. Chapter 28.) (2 Nephi SATAN'S VICTORY—SONS OF PERDITION Section 76 (verses 30-39) gives the answer to two questions regarding the class known as the sons of perdition. Who are the sons of perdition? What is their fate? Concerning the first question, the revelation says that they have known God's power and then, knowingly, deny that power (verse 31). When one is endowed with the Spirit to know the existence of God, having great understanding of the principles of exaltation, and then denies this knowledge, he sins against the Holy Ghost that opened the heavens to him. This constitutes blasphemy against the Holy Ghost and puts the Savior to open shame. Such a person brings upon himself everlasting condemnation. (Verses 31-35.) Jesus said that all sins might be forgiven, including speaking against him, but to sin against the Holy Ghost was unforgivable. (Matt. 12:31 - 32.) Why is this so? Even though the Son is manifest in a vision or dream, it dces not impress the soul as does the testimony of the Holy Ghost. It is Spirit speaking to spirit that gives greater conviction than a vision; therefore, the condemnation is_ greater. (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: I[mprovement Era, July 1955, pp. 494-495.) The Prophet Joseph Smith says of this class: All sins shall be forgiven, except the sin against the Holy Ghost; for Jesus will save all except the sons of perdition. What must a man do to commit the unpardonable sin? He must receive the Holy Ghost, have the 539 JULY 1964 heavens opened unto him, and know God, and then sin against Him. After a man has sinned against the Holy Ghost, there is no repentance for him. He has got to say that the sun does not shine while he sees it; he has got to deny Jesus Christ when the heavens have been opened unto him, and to deny the plan of salvation with his eyes open to the truth of it; and from that time he begins to be an enemy. This is the case with many apostates of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 358). It should be noted that when this sin is committed it is done in full. Knowledge and not in ignorance. FATE OF SONS OF PERDITION As already noted, the sons of perdition will never receive forgiveness in this world nor in the world to come. (D&C 76:34.) It should be remembered that the sons of perdition discussed in this lesson are those sons of God who have come to mortality and not the unembodied spirits who followed Lucifer in the premortal world. Both of these classes—the mortal sons of perdition and the spirit sons of perdition — suffer the second death, which is complete, or total banishment from God's presence forever. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 24.) Adam became spiritually dead when he sinned, as do we, but the spiritual or second death suffered by the sons of perdition, comes by _ blasphemy against the Holy Ghost. This penalty brings death as to things pertaining unto righteousness. (D&C 29:41.) Repentance is not possible for these persons because they have lost the power of turning from their sins since the atonement of Christ is no longer effective for their salvation. 540 ALL RESURRECTED Due to a misunderstanding of Section 76, verses 38 and 39, some have believed that the sons of perdition will not receive their bodies in the resurrection. This belief dces not agree, however, with what the Lord has revealed about the resurrection. (Verses 16-17.) The interpretation of verses 38 and 39 of Section 76 is expressed by President George Q. Cannon: A careful reading of these verses, however, and especially of the preceding paragraphs, will show that the Lord does not, in this language, exclude even the sons of perdition from the resurrection. It is plain that the intention is to refer to them explicitly as the only ones on whom the second death shall have any power "for all the rest shall be brought forth by the resurrection of the dead, through the triumph and the glory of the lamb." This excluded class are the only ones on whom the second death shall have any power, and "the only ones who shall not be redeemed in the due time of the Lord after the sufferings of his wrath" (Juvenile Instructor 35:123, Feb. 15, 1900). NO GLORY KINGDOM Latter-day Saints are prone to consider that there will be only three kingdoms after everyone is resurrected, because three degrees of glory are mentioned specifically in the scriptures. (I Cor. 15:40-42.) The Lord has revealed that the place of the sons of perdition is also known as a kingdom, but it is of no glory. (D&C 88:24.) The exact conditions of that kingdom are unknown. That it is a place of endless duration is clear. No man living can understand the fate of this class because the Lord has said that only those who are partakers of that punishment will understand its end, width, height, depth, and misery. (I bid., 76:44-48.) Notice what the Prophet said: Say to the brothers Hulet and to all" others, that the Lord never authorized them to say that the devil, his angels or the sons of perdition, should ever be restored; for their state of destiny was not revealed to man, is not revealed, nor ever shall be revealed, save to those who are made partakers thereof: consequently those who teach this doctrine, have not received it of the Snirit of the Lord. Truly Brother Oliver declared it to be the doctrine of devils. We therefore command that this doctrine be taught no more in Zion (DHC 1:366). SATAN'S DEFEAT Despite the fact that there will be few who will become sons of perdition, Satan will have gained a victory over that number. On the other hand, his victory over the vast host of mankind will be only partial, for all of the rest will find some degree of glory in the kingdoms prepared for them. Many will not have realized their full potential as scns and daughters of God, but only a measure of God's honor. The judgment rendered at the time of the resurrection will be just, for it will be according to one's works. (D&C 19:3; 128-8.) The creeds of men, developed over the centuries without revelation from heaven, have pictured God as banishing the sinner forever in a hell where punishment is endured eternally. This doom was believed to be incurred by the vast majority of mankind. The notion that there were only "heaven" and "hell," without an intermediate state of preparation for immortality or resurrection, gave rise to a doctrine of salvation incompatible with the teachLESSON DEPARTMEN]} ings of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The saved were wafted into heaven, while the sinner went to hell, lost forever. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 453.) THE GOSPEL PLAN In contradiction to this erroneous and unjust concept of God's justice, the message of The. Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints proclaims the doctrine that our Father in heaven is solicitous for all of his children and has provided the means whereby they may receive, if not all, a part of his glory. This, however, comes only by their placing themselves in accord with divine laws either in mortality or in the spirit world. We learn: And this is the gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us— That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness; That through him all might be saved whom the Father had put into his power and made by him; Who glorifies the Father, and saves all the works of his hands, except those sons of perdition who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him. Wherefore, he saves all them (D&C 76: 40-44). Except Questions for Discussion 1. What incident gave rise to the Prophet's inquiry of the Lord which brought forth Section 76? 2. What superior evidence is given in this revelation about the existence of God? Give the contributions to our understanding of God and our relationship to him from Section 76:22-24. 3. What is there in Section 76 to establish that it contains information about the past as well as the future? 4. Discuss: To what degree will Satan's efforts succeed? 541 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 57 — '"'Leave Judgment Alone With Me, For It Is Mine and I Will Repay...""' (D&C 82:23). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, October 1964 Objective: To emphasize the importance to us of conscientiously and consistently avoiding the temptation to judge others. THE tendency to pass quick judgment on others is one of the most common of our human weaknesses. It is so easy to observe the actions of others and to come to quick conclusions regarding their motives and_ intentions. Consequently, all of us are prone to fall into the error of quick, unqualified and, certainly, unjustified judgments. This is a human frailty against which we have been frequently warned and about which we should be constantly on guard. As the Lord says, we must leave judgment alone with him, for he alone can know the reasons for human actions and what lies in the human heart. President McKay in discussing our proneness to judge told the story of "A poor old Frenchwoman who was walking along the banks of the Seine River. She had a threadbare shawl around her shoulders. She stooped and 542 picked up something and put it under her shawl. A policeman a short distance away saw the act. He hurried over to her and said, 'Let me see what you are holding under your shawl.' "She drew out a piece of glass, saying, 'It is only a broken piece of glass. I picked it up because, perhaps, some barefoot boy might cut his foot on it.' '"'What a lesson to the policeman who misjudged her! Yes, I know he was doing his duty, but he thought she was taking something which did not belong to her, when her act reflected the nobility of a great soul" (Pathways to Happiness, page 148). What a lesson to all of us! How often in observing an action or an attitude on the part of one of our neighbors or friends have we been prone to impute motives and reasons which, because of our lack of full information, are wrong and misguided. Let us remember, that in our limited knowledge, it is impossible for us to know the circumstances which _ prompt others' actions. The Lord alone knows the _ capabilities, the thoughts, the needs and desires, which motivate human action. In the Book of Psalms we read "... He [the Lord] hath prepared his throne for judgment. And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister judgment to the people in uprightness" (Psalms 9:7-8). The Savior said, "Judge not, that ye be not judged" (Matt. 7:1). The scriptures repeatedly emphasize that by the judgment we mete to others we also shall be judged. Undoubtedly, the best way to overcome our proneness to judge others is to form the wonderful habit of looking for their good qualities rather than for their faults. A certain individual had fallen into the habit of criticizing and complaining about an acquaintance with whom he was in close association. In discussing the problem with a friend, he was asked, '"'Does not your associate have any good qualities?" To which came the reply, "Yes, he in generous to a fault." This appraisal started him thinking about the man's good LESSON DEPARTMENT qualities. Each time a negative and fault-finding thought entered his mind, he immediately tried to think of a good quality with which to replace it. As a consequence, this approach soon revealed that his associate possessed many fine qualities. It wasn't long before the two became fast friends. One of the results of fault-finding and attempting to judge others is that it establishes a negative point of view, which clouds our vision and cankers our souls. On the other hand, looking for the good in others is the positive approach, and enhances and manifests the good in our own personalities. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Emphasized the importance of leaving judgment to the Lord and of the fact that the Lord judges us with mercy and love. He said: I have a feeling... That when the time comes for passing judgment... For every good deed we have done, we shall receive the full reward that it is possible to bestow under the rules and laws governing, and having in mind justice. And I have the further: feeling that for every ill thing we do there will be imposed upon us the least penalty that may be bestowed having in mind the principles involved,— eternal justice seasoned with mercy and love (Clark, J. Reuben, Jr.: Conference Report. April 1958, pages 48- 49). PRAYER Nellie B. Schmidt Blessed are they who have learned to pray, For they shall walk in the light; For prayer is the key that opens the day And the lock that guards the night. 543 WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine Discussion I—Introduction (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meetings) For Second Meeting, October 1964 Objective: To decide what happiness is and what some of Wat better study for Latterday Saint women to engage in, than that concerning the pursuit of happiness? For in their positions as wives, mothers, grandmothers, sisters, and neighbors, it is their charge and obligation to create a climate within the home that will germinate and nurture seeds of happiness. This achieving happiness is a noble calling, for Lehi in 2 Nephi of The Book of Mormon made the statement so dear to the hearts of the Latter-day Saint people, "Men are that they might have joy."' Modern day prophets have reiterated this principle. Joseph Smith said that "happiness is the object and design of our existence." Brigham Young added, "To make ourselves happy is incorporated in the great design of man's existence." John Taylor told the saints of his day that 'it is 'life and the pursuit of happiness' that ought to occupy the attention of all intellectual beings."" And President David O. 544 the bases for its achievement may be. McKay has said, "Happiness is the end and design of life." Latter-day Saints know that when we were given our bodies and permitted to come to this earth to accept the challenge of life here with its temptations and pitfalls and were given our free agencies to choose between good and evil, we were also given the opportunity to achieve full and unlimited happiness. This year in our home management discussions we are plotting a course for ourselves and our families that will lead us to that happiness and joy about which the prophets have written. No person on earth has such an opportunity and yet such a responsibility as does a mother for bringing happiness into a home, for it is through her that a home builds its spirit of happiness. It is from her candle that the others take their light. Each day as she sends her family out from the home she has the oppor- tunity to do so with a cheery word, a bright hope, a promise. And when she welcomes them home at night it can be to peace and serenity, warmth and love. Benjamin Franklin tells the story of a workman building a house who always appeared so cheerful and merry, regardless of the circumstances surrounding him, that it was finally asked of him the secret of his constant flow of happiness. "It is no secret," he replied, "I have one of the best wives; and, when I go home, she meets me with a smile and a kiss.... She has done so many little things through the day to please me that I cannot find it in my heart to speak an unkind word to anyone." Another husband has described it this way, "When I put my key in the front door lock, I feel that a burden is being lifted from me. When the door closes behind me and I know I am inside my home, I can throw off the struggle of competition. When I hear my wife call from inside 'Hello,' the front door closing behind me has worked a miracle." Abraham Lincoln said of his home, "Here is my heart, my happiness, my house. Here inside the lighted window is my love, my hope, my life. Peace is my companion on the pathway winding to the threshold." There can be no doubt that homes are the wellsprings of happiness. If the mother is happy, then the whole family will likely be happy and will make a happy place for themselves in the world. Today, let us be about the business of bringing happiness into our homes. The time to be happy is now. The place to be happy is LESSON DEPARTMENT here. And we can all be as happy as we make up our minds to be. Let us resolve right now that whether we feel happy or not, we will look as though we are and speak and act so. Let our conversation today in work meeting reflect it — in the tone and in the content. Our actions here at work meeting should reflect happiness — the harder we work and the more we accomplish, the more joyous we will feel. Courtesy and kindness shown to others will encourage gladness. Creativity and ingenuity (two objectives of work meeting) kindle happiness. Participation in a worthwhile program or project always brings more happiness than being a spectator. After succeeding today, then let this same attitude pervade our homes through the ensuing weeks. Let us live as though we believe that homemaking is the noblest profession of them all, attacking our work with joy, rejoicing in the goodness of our husbands and children and grandchildren, recognizing our blessings and not our ills, striving for a communion with our families and neighbors that is sweet and constant. And, above all, we must try every day to be helpful to others, for as surely as the sun rises every morning, the way to be happy is to make others happy. Happiness begets happiness. If we will live as though we are happy and give every appearance of it, happiness will walk beside uS. Let us live for this blessing of happiness, for if we are desirous of a righteous blessing and live worthy of it, we will surely receive it. 545 LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 1—The Appreciation and Criticism of Literature (Textbook: Out of the Best Books: Objective: For Third Meeting, October 1964 An Anthology of Literature, Part |—The Individual) To develop the insight into literature which comes from an understanding of the principles of literary criticism. You may learn through trial and error to become a competent seamstress without formal instruction—for an ill-fitting jacket is a powerful spur to improvement, and experience does teach. But no one ever created a lovely, satisfying dress who did not understand the principles of good sewing. A mere awareness of the characteristics that a well-mado garment should have is no guarantee that you can make one to match your ideal. It may, however, give you a feeling of security when you are trying to decide which of two suits is the better buy. You can teach yourself to recognize real value through trial and error, but it is an expensive and frustrating process. How much better to be instructed by someone who will share her own experience. The young woman who has been taught by her mother in basic principles of clothing selection and care is truly fortu- 546 nate, for this is a continunig responsibility which she cannot escape as a wife and mother. The ability to judge excellent fabric or shoddy construction comes with experience. No one is born with it. All must learn to compare and evaluate. The satisfaction, however, which comes from knowing that you can discriminate skilfully in both making and buying clothes for yourself and your loved ones is a deep and abiding one. Actually, of course, comparing and evaluating are necessary in all that we do, but sometimes we fail to see this clearly—especially when we are dealing with intangibles. It is hard to discern a feeling or a quality, and for this reason most of us can talk more easily about material than _ spiritual things. But this does not mean that we can neglect to develop spiritual awareness. It is not enough that we have vague spirit- ual aspirations. Our eternal salvation depends upon our ability to make precise choices. While it may demand real effort, spirituality can be developed, and the lessons which are provided each month in Relief Society are eloquent testimony that spiritual discernment can be developed. DEVELOPING LITERARY SENSITIVITY A similar sensitivity needs to be developed in considering literature, and it, too, can be both taught and learned. The trouble here is that we do not think it important to discriminate precisely in literature. We are reluctant to accept a sales clerk's glib description of a dress without trying it on and checking its construction. We also recognize the profound necessity for each person to work out his own spiritual salvation, but we may be content to read non-religious books' uncritically or sit by while a teacher talks about literature. Perhaps we think that because we are reading or listening only for enjoyment that we can be passive and undiscriminating. Such an attitude is frightening because it is just while we are in such a passive state that we are most susceptible to influence. We are also apt to be overawed by those who tell us what various literary works mean, and we are tempted to let others make our literary judgments for us. This is both unnecessary and unfair, unfair to the authors and works we study and, most of all, unfair to ourselves. We lose the growth which critical development brings. No vague appreciation of literature provides this. We must learn LESSON DEPARTMENT to discern, to become critics, in order to help ourselves and our families to choose the best guides for life, and few influences are as potent as the material we read. FOUR MAJOR CRITICAL METHODS The first section of the text for this year gives a detailed account of the four major critical positions which you will need to be aware of if you want to develop critical sensitivity. The discussion there is mildly technical in order to provide the background for the basic understanding of critical theory. You can become a competent critic—and know the thrill of being able to make your own judgments—if you focus on the method which each position stresses. A. Emphasizing the Message. The first approach emphasizes the message of the work. It is referred to as the Platonic method, after the Greek philosopher. What does the poem or story say to you? Since what the poem seys to you will be determined, in large part, by what you bring to the poem, you find yourself judging it on the basis of your experience and beliefs. If the poem is about nature, and you bring a deep love of nature to the reading or hearing of the poem, it will mean more to you than to one who doesn't share your enthusiasm for the out-of-doors. It may well mean something to you as a Latter-day Saint that it will not mean to fricnds of other religious faiths. The standards which you use in evaluating this poem are set by your experience and convictions before you begin reading. Let us 547 JULY 1964 illustrate this in examining a poem by this first approach: THE CROSS OF SNOW In the long, sleepless watches of the night, A gentle face—the face of one long dead— Looks at me from the wall, where round its head The night-lamp casts a halo of pale light. Here in this room she died; and soul more white Never through the martyrdom of fire was led To its repose; nor can in books be read The legend of a life more benedight. There is a mountain in the distant West, That, sun-defying, in its deep ravines Displays a cross of snow upon its side. Such is the cross I wear upon my breast These eighteen years, through all the changing scenes And seasons, changeless since the day she died. The poem is obviously one of loss, the loss of a loved one who apparently died by fire. While you have not had an exactly comparable experience you probably have lost, by death, someone very dear to you. You reflect that your loss also took place long ago, but it is still vivid, and you appreciate the author's symbol of the cross of snow—with all its suggestions of suffering — for it describes your own feelings well. Faith in a hereafter, however, partially tempers your sorrow, and you do not quite identify with the despairing tone of the concluding lines. This poem appeals to anyone who has experienced the death of a loved one, but you would have to share the author's religious convictions, which do not appear very hopeful here, to identify with this poem totally. 548 B. Finding Critical Standards Within the Work. The second approach stresses the form of the work rather than its message and requires some knowledge of literary types. It is often called the Aristotelian method, after Aristotle, pupil of Plato. This approach focuses on the form in which the poem is written. Let us demonstrate this by considering the same poem we looked at earlier. You still do not care who wrote it, but you do care about its structure and the relation of part to part in the poem. You note immediately that it is a sonnet. You check to see if the poem is unified by a strong but single emotion, and find that it is. You also note that the author has handled the two-part nature of the sonnet well. The first eight lines develop the situation; the last six give it symbolic and memorable expression. The images are consistent and precise. The author's constant guarding of a saintly memory is conveyed effectively by such words as "watches," "halo," ''benedight," and '"'changeless." The suddenness of the catastrophe is beautifully illustrated by the uninterrupted phrase from the middle of line five to the middle of line seven. And nothing is more impressive in setting the despairing tone of the poem than the position given the word changeless in the last line. Coming as it does, it forces you to emphasize it, and in so doing leaves exactly the impact necessary to conclude this tightly controlled poem. C. Emphasizing the Author. The third approach tries to illuminate the work by considering the author and the background of the poem. This is often referred to with reference to the name Longinus, a Greek philosopher, and emphasizes research. If we consider the conditions under which a poem is written, we may be able to understand allusions and references which would otherwise be obscure. The author's experience may add richness to our interpretation of his work. If we look at the same poem we have been examining, we need to know immediately that the author is Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and that he is writing in memory of his beloved wife whose dress caught fire from the candles of the Christmas tree. Although Longfellow tried desperately to smother the fire, and received severe burns himself, he was not able to save her. With the possible exception of Nathaniel Hawthorne and Mark Twain, no wellknown American writer had a happier marriage than Lonegfellow. He adored his wife, and her death seemed to him to have a terrible appropriateness in that she died as so many other saints had done—by fire. The fact that it occurred near Christmas was also suggestive to him and probably helped in the choice of his concluding symbol—the cross. D. Acknowledging the Verdict of Time. The fourth position is a very practical one, named after Horace, the Roman. It suggests that you check to see what other people have thought about the work you are examining. If a poem continues to be read and discussed year after year, if it gives pleasure and inspiration to succeeding generations, it cannot LESSON DEPARTMENT be discounted whether it seems to qualify for praise under any other position or not. Unfortunately, this approach cannot be used with much success to evaluate contemporary works. We need the perspective of time to compare and evaluate by this standard. Even the eighty years which have elapsed since Longfellow wrote "The Cross of Snow" are not enough to know whether it will truly last. We do note that it ls appearing more and more often in anthologies today, while some other poems of Longfellow like "The Village Blacksmith'— once extremely popular—are rarely reprinted. Perhaps, in conclusion, the use of these four approaches can be effectively illustrated by considering The Book of Mormon. Under the Platonic method we can check the "message" of this work by standards which we bring from our study of other scripture. No book, not excepting the Bible, is better able to defend itself on the basis of what it has to say to all Christians than The Book of Mormon. From the Aristotelian point of view, that is evaluation on the basis of form, The Book of Mormon is equally impressive. Its title page states clearly what it claims to be, which is essentially Hebraic history. We need to be aware, however, that Hebraic history ls a very special kind of account. To the Hebrew, history is God's dealings with his chosen people, no more, no less. It is not recorded to satisfy curiosity; it is written to change lives, to bring its readers to a knowledge of God. Theology, therefore, is presented in answer to human problems. 549 JULY 1964 Digressions on philosophy, geography, economy, or any other concern which does not specifically reflect God's dealings with his people are rare in any Hebrew history —and they are just as rare in The Book of Mormon. If we take the standards by which we judge from the work itself, this book is precisely, and triumphantly, what it claims to be. At first glance, the abridged nature of much of The Book of Mormon would seem to make reference to particular writers in it unusually difficult, but real persons can be seen in looking at the different writing styles of such small books as "Enos" or "Jarom." As an example, consider the headlong impetuosity of Enos. His verbs are particularly vivid: "sunk," "cried," "swept," 'did pour out," "labored." Contrast this with calm, exacting Jarom. Unlike Enos, he is very careful with his diction. Note his description of the Lamanites in verse six. How careful he is to give us their attitude as well as their actions. They not only killed; they "loved murder." There is an authentic ring to these statements. These are such actual people that when Jacob tells us "'to be carnallyminded is death, and to be spiritually-minded is life eternal,' we can almost hear him say it. He is as real as our own beloved leaders today. Although the Book of Mormon has been in print for fewer than 150 years, demand for it has never slowed. By Horatian standards— which insist that the test of time cannot be discounted—The Book of Mormon is doing very well. When generations yet to come find this book significant, The 550 Book of Mormon will have passed its ultimate critical test as a literary work. SUMMARY The important thing to remember about this lesson is that anyone can begin to become an able critic of literature if he recognizes the necessity for discernment and works at developing his critical sensitivity devotedly. You simply begin where you are. To start, don't worry about what the author means; (1) find out what his work means to you. Then (2) try to see how the work is put together; look for the ''recipe"' of the poem or story. (3) Add to this, as you are able, information about the author which will give richness to your analysis. Then complete your development by (4) seeing what others have said. Throughout the lessons which follow we will try to demonstrate the use and significance of these methods. They should help you appreciate President McKay's comment that "the value of good reading consists, first, in selecting good books and, second, in seeing clearly what is_ therein written." Questions for Discussion 1. Why is it necessary to be "critical" of literature? Why won't simple appreciation do? 2. What is the special strength of the first critical position for Latterday Saints? 3. What is the danger of focusing on the life of the poet rather than on his poetry? 4. Note how beautifully such a work as The Book of Mormon stands up under the four critical approaches. Why, on the other hand, will most modern writings not be remembered a hundred years from now? JULY 1964 to follow. His acceptance of the Father did not come _ simply through delivering a message and teaching truth. It included a dayby-day performance of the principles of eternal life. He tested out the reality of the first and second great commandments — love of God and love of fellow men. He placed the great stress on service. In his growing to maturity, Christ went through the usual experience of living with people; he participated in church services; he exercised his trade; he met people in a business way and had his place in a family. His mother pondered in her heart (Luke 2:19) all the things that happened in relation to his divinity for he was the Son of God. THE IMPORTANCE OF LEADERSHIP Christ's example of leadership set the pattern for all men, and, particularly, for the Church in this, the dispensation of the fulness of times. He knew the sorrowing and suffering of all the people. He healed the sick, raised the dead, and counseled people in their struggles, both temporal and spiritual. He personally stood the test of temptations in the areas of the greatest human weaknesses, the craze for power and wealth, the urge of the appetites, and the test of faith and humility in relation to the use of the power of God. The Savior's living testimony of his teachings is of major lmportance in this lesson. The simplicity of his teachings and living makes his example one which each member of the Church can emulate. The effective functioning of the Church government depends upon a lay leadership. The responsibility of each 552 member is to be prepared in the divine pattern of leadership. Essential to this is a sense of dedication to the great principles that Christ exemplified in his life. President Rudger Clawson once said, "When the men holding the Priesthood live up to the ideals of the Priesthood, the Church advances rapidly; when they falter in their duties the progress of the Church lags" (Widtsoe, Priesthood and Church Government, page 111.) The Church organization, as we know it, is the structure or instrument through which the Priesthood or power of God can function, but the proper and effective functioning of Church government depends upon the degree of righteousness of the people involved. No ornamentation of the physical structure of the Church can substitute for this. LEADERSHIP DEFINED Leadership is the key to the successful functioning of the Church organization. <A_ leader is commonly referred to as a person with the ability to visualize, organize, and energize. In plain words, a leader must have vision, be able to see relationships and implications of the course being proposed. He must be able to develop organization sufficient to meet the demands of the objectives involved, and must have the energy to stimulate the members of his group to action. In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, the leader must also have the spiritual quality necessary to communicate with divinity and receive divine guidance in his particular assignment. Great leadership in the Church comes from a realization of the possibilities or potential of the calling in relation to what can be done for the membership and the part this work can play in building the kingdom of God on earth. A true leader in the Church does not look upon his assignment or calling as a status symbol, but as a challenge to use his talents in the service of the group. He is motivated by love and dedicated to the task of bringing the group to the goal and purpose of the Church, which is perfection and exaltation. Leadership in the above situation is not based on force or violence. It comes "by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned" (D&C 121:41). This describes the leadership of the Savior. As has been already pointed out, Jesus was a doer of the Word. Leaders in the Church must be members whose lives are consistent with the pattern set by Jesus Christ. DECISION AND TRUE VIRTUE People in leadership positions are expected to set the proper example, providing for the members the evidence of the effectiveness of the principles of the gospel in daily living. Nevertheless, each person is responsible for the decisions he makes in relation to divine counsel. In every human contact, in business, in recreation, in school, family, or Church, the rules of right living must be the same. Decisions are made on the basis of the real values in one's standard of living. True virtue is expressed in decision-making which is done on the basis of full knowledge, knowing the right and the LESSON DEPARTMENT wrong and choosing the right. While there may be some variance as to what is right among the different cultures of the world, there can be no question as to what is right and truth in the revelations of God. He is the Author of all that is good and true. As has been pointed out in previous lessons, revelation or divine law is the wisdom or counsel of the Creator given as direction by which man, the creation, can, by his own choice, reach the height of his _possibilities. There are those who argue that right is a matter of interpretation, expediency, or intellectual justification. Too often these arguments are an effort at rationalization to relieve one's mind from criticism of personal behavior. Virtue is not limited to one area of behavior. It applies to all our decision-making where right and wrong are concerned. The pattern of virtue is formed in the numerous small decisions one makes from day to day. THE IMPLICATION OF CHOICE Being confronted with problems is the spice of living. Decision-making is the evidence of the character of the individual. Almost every moment that we are awake we are required to make decisions. The freedom and right to make these decisions by ourselves is a priceless heritage and blessing. To be an accepted member of any group, one's decisions must be controlled, influenced by, or at least in conformity with the values and standards of the group in which he desires membership. One's 553 JULY 1964 claim to acceptance in the Church is based on this sound principle. Church standards are the same for all members whether it be in family relations, in activity on a social plane, in dealings in business operations, or in participation in Church opportunities for service. The action of an accepted member of the kingdom must be motivated by love, guided by wisdom, tempered with justice, consideration, and kindness. He must perform his service with a sincere desire for the improvement of others. LIVING THE GOSPEL Madame Marie Curie, a very famous scientist, discovered and applied a method of extracting radium from raw ore. She was able to secure the first ounce of this precious metal. Its dollar value was fantastic and she was poor, but she dedicated her findings to the welfare of mankind. She gave her ounce of radium to the medical profession to be used in the treatment of human ills, an example of true service for the welfare of mankind. Such outstanding examples of dedicated service can be found in many different fields. Others of less magnitude can be observed in various areas of everyday life. The importance of such examples is to illustrate that human beings are capable of the pattern of conduct Jesus exemplified in every moment of his life. He was the perfect example of human living. There is ample evidence to show that behavior such as he exemplified can be performed by all of us, not occasionally or by chance, but regularly and by choice, recognizing the value of such behavior. 554 Honesty is a habit and virtue grows out of it. Being honest with oneself in relation to the standards and values that have formulated one's philosophy of life, is essential to virtuous living. In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the standards and values come from God and are contained in the divine law that directs the Church. SUMMARY As previously pointed out, divine law is the counsel of God given to provide direction in the lives of human beings that will assist them in the development of their greatest possibilities and lead them toward perfection, and in the direction of Godhood, man's greatest potential. The function of Church government from the beginning of time has been to give direction to human association. How to live together successfully has been the major emphasis. In the city of Enoch the people achieved perfection enough to be translated. The people "were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them" (Moses 7:18). All the sons of Adam had been taught the basic principles of right living, but evidently only the few in Enoch's city put the principles into practice. Another example is found in The Book of Mormon, 4 Nephi, where the people accepted the divine way of life and lived together in peace for 200 years. Sacred literature is full of suggestions for right living. There are many who have knowledge of the facts of divine law, but until they apply the principles in their lives, they will not produce right- eousness. To the degree that we live the teachings of the Savior, to that degree will we become perfect in our human relations and thus become different from the world. The function of Church government is to produce a standard of behavior like that of the people of Enoch, and the Nephites in 4 Nephi, and to develop the perfection in human conduct patterned after the example of the Savior. "Be ye doers of the word." THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Do the principles of the gospel interfere with the things you enjoy doing? 2. Is there a difference in your religious behavior and your regular activities in life? 3. What is the relationship between your religion and effective participation as a citizen? 4. In what way were the people of Enoch's time or the people in 4 Nephi different from us? References New Testament, the Four Gospels The Book of Mormon, 3 Nephi; 4 Nephi Pearl of Great Price, Moses 7:18 NOTES ON AUTHORS OF LESSONS Dr. BRUCE B. CLARK Mik. Bruce B. Clark is Professor of English and Chairman of the English Department at Brigham Young University. Now forty-six years old, he was born in 1918 in Georgetown, Idaho, the son of Marvin and Alice Budge Clark, and a descendant of four pioneer families — the Clarks, Budges, Woolleys, and Athays. Perhaps most notable among his ancestors was his great-grandfather, William Budge, the young Scotch missionary instrumental in converting Karl G. Maeser to the Church. (Karl G. Maesar was called by President Brigham Young in 1876 to organize the Brigham Young University, and William Budge was for many years the LESSON DEPARTMENT President of Bear Lake Stake and of the Logan Temple.) In 1935 Brother Clark was graduated from Montpelier High School in Montpelier. Idaho. He then attended the University of Utah for three years before interrupting his education to serve a mission in the Northwestern States from 1939 to 1941. Following this mission, he returned to the University of Utah to graduate with a B. A. Degree in English in 1943. During World War II he served for three years in the U. S. Army, most of this time in Hawaii as a director of publications at an army post. After the war, he resumed his education, receiving an M. A. In English at Brigham Young University in 1947 and a Ph. D. In English and Philosophy at the University of Utah in 1951. Since 1950 he has been on the English faculty at Brigham Young University, serving as department chairman since 1960. After filling many other Church positions, he was called to be a bishop in 1954, and after serving seven years in this capacity, was called in 1961 to the High Council of his stake, in which position he served until May 24 of this year, when he was again appointed a bishop. In addition to his work on a Relief Society literature text, Brother Clark has written many other articles and public addresses, mostly on literature and religion, and is now completing a critical biography of Oscar Wilde for a New York publishing firm. He is a member of many national and state professional organizations and _is listed in Who's Who in America. His wife is Ouida Raphiel, formerly of Campti, Louisiana, and they are the parents of six children, ages seven to sixteen. Dr. ROBERT K. THOMAS Dr. Robert K. Thomas, a son of Zeph and Maud Rencher Thomas, was born at Sunnyside, Utah, on July 22, 1918. He moved to Oregon at the age of eight and remained there through college and the first year of graduate school. In 1947, Dr. Thomas was graduated from Reed College in Portland, and in 1949, he received his M. A. Degree from the University of Oregon. After additional graduate 555 JULY 1964 study in American Literature at Columbia, he returned to Utah and Brigham Young University in 1951. In 1957, he received a Danforth Teacher grant for further study toward a Ph. D. In 1960-61, he was selected by the student body as Professor of the Year. In the same year he was appointed Director of the Brigham Young University Honors Program. In 1962, Dr. Thomas coached the team which represented Brigham Young University on the TV "College Quiz Bowl." Dr. Thomas has served as stake Sunday School superintendent, high councilman, and a member of a bishopric. He served on the high council of the Brigham Young University Fourth Stake until May 24 of this year when he was called as bishop of a B. Y. U. Ward. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Phi Kappa Phi. On December 24, 1948, Dr. Thomas was married to Shirley Ann Wilkes in the St. George Temple. The couple now have three children, Cornel, twelve; Ryan, eleven; and Angie, nine. WINNIFRED CANNON JARDINE Wiwnirrep Cannon Jardine, a daughter of Winnifred Merrill and Clawson Young Cannon, spent most of her "srowing up" years in Ames, Iowa, where her father was a professor at Iowa State College. It was there she received her college education and was graduated in Home Economics Journalism. After graduation, she was a staff member of the Martha Logan Test Kitchen, Swift & Company, Chicago; a member and, later, head of the Home Economics Department, American Meat Institute, Chicago; Director, Home Economics Department, Radio Station KMBC, Kansas City, Missouri. She was married to Stuart Bryson Jardine in the Salt Lake Temple in 1946. They, together with their family, have lived in Salt Lake City ever since, except for four years spent in Colorado Springs, Colorado. They are the parents of four children: James, Stephen, Mark, and Ann. Mr. Jardine is an agent with The Equitable Life Assurance Society. Since coming to Salt Lake, Sister Jardine has continued to work in her profession. She was an instructor in foods and nutrition at the University of Utah, and has been food editor of the Deseret News and Salt Lake Telegram for the past fifteen years. She has also been a food consultant and free lance writer, having stories published in such magazines as The Relief Society Magazine, The Improvement Era, The Children's Friend, Better Homes and Gardens, Better Living, Farm Journal, Town Journal, Sunset Magazine, and Successful Farming. Except for her teaching, she has worked entirely from her home. She is a member of the Utah Home Economists in Business, Utah Home Ecoomics Association, and the Utah State Nutrition Council. Sister Jardine has been a member of the YWMIA General Board and has written various lessons for the MIA manuals. She has been both a ward and stake YWMIA president, has served on both ward and stake boards of the Primary, has been a Relief Society class leader, and is at the present time theology class leader on the East Mill Creek Stake Relief Society Board. TO MY DEAR SISTERS IN RELIEF SOCIETY Marion Mallorie Farnborough, Hampshire, England Something wonderful stirs at my heart, When I think how united we are. We each play a valuable part, Each one in a different way. And yet we are all working together And to one Heavenly Father we pray. Ours is a beautiful labor, Each one has a beautiful task— To fulfill the commandments of Christ, And to give unto those who will ask. 556 Humble Values Alice R. Rich RANDMOTHER Maren rocked comfortably before her Charter Oak cookstove in her kitchen-living room and watched the sun set over the western marsh lands as its orange and red changed to drab, that late November day. A heavy wind whipped loose snow against the window panes, but she was cozy inside, with evening chores all done. In the attached shanty she had her coal and kindling, and from the ever-ready pump, under the sheltcring caves, she had her water buckets filled on the wash bench by the back door. Her aloneness was compensated by these humble comforts. She was warm inside in the love and thoughtfulness of family and neighbors. Her side table was gay with cards and letters and a small planter of Philodendron from dear ones who had remembered her recent birthday. Only today Mary Ellen, her young neighbor had brought over baby Stephen, to show her his first tooth. On his chubby feet he wore the white and yellow bootees that Maren had knitted for him. Mary Ellen had needles and yarn with her to get instructions how to make some bootees for a friend who was preparing for a new baby. Later in the day, Marsha came to bring her. Mail from the village Post Office. Along with her Relief Society Magazine, there was a letter from her granddaughter, now living on_ the family farm where Maren and her young husband had homesteaded, and where they had reared their family of nine boys and girls. The letter was full of everyday activities and happenings, lovely reminders of her own bright and active days there. After a long quiet evening of reading and thinking, Maren banked the fire and prepared for bed. Sincere appreciation welled up in her heart for all the blessings that were hers today. In her prayers she thanked a kind Maker for her wonderful gifts. She felt that heaven could not be very different. LESSON DEPARTMENT WORLD'S FAIR — MAY TO OCTOBER — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours There will be several tours to the World's Fair including the Hill Cumorah Pageant. Tour leaving July 12, includes Hill Cumorah Pageant, World's Fair, Montreal and Quebec, Canada EUROPE — AUGUST, 1964 HAWAII JUNE 17 — OCTOBER 12 TOURS Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 Come and See Christie Lund Coles '"'Come and see,''she says. ~ and | go, because her face is like white wings, poised for flight. 'Come and see,'' he says | follow, because his eyes are like twin stars. Falling on night. '"'Come and see,'"' they say. | must hurry; though | may not see, I'm sure their innocence can glimpse infinity. 557 SACRED MUSIC FOR THREE PART LADIES VOICES ~<aABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen.20 eeETERNAL LIFE—Dungan 25.---GOD OF ALL NATURE—Tchaikovsky elGO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD—Madsen illHEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn =! IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Ma eaIN HIS STEPS—Wilson o>. LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen aeONWARD CHRISTIAN SOLDIERS—Sullivan -TWENTY THIRD PSALM—Schubert Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Please send the music above.. Ee.30 teen 25 ~ronenanll 25 dsen _.25 See 25 meeinenne.20 [] On Approval [] Charge [] Money Enclosed Name i 1 1 1 1 indicated | { i salt tak 13 {4! 1 | | | _— — eee we se ee ee ie OE eee eee ees 15 E. Ist South e City 11, Utah -An all-wise loving Father Potentials Pearle M. Olsen planted well the seeds of gifts and talents deep within | each one of us. Celestia! Settings | nurtured growth in some degree, and, then, through birth, we brought them, sleeping, when we came to dwell upon this mortal earth. And they remain in embryonic state until his truths impel to action. Then the dormant seeds begin to feel uneasy — swell, and burst the shell of stored potential. Aptitudes therein assert themselves — endeavor to excel on past performance, and compel us on to justify their timeless origin. Goals To set goals for ourselves ls admirable; however we need to remember it is through the work, the struggle, the hope we expend in striving for the goal, that we attain growth. We must not give up because the destination appears always to be moving into the distance. Both the journey and the arrival are important. —Nancy M. Armstrong BEAUTIFUL HANDY WORLD'S FAIR TOURS 24 days — July 23 to August 15: DURABLE World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. A sure way of keeping alive the valuable 'in- > struction of each month's Relief Society Maga- 27 days — August 29 to September 24: zine is Wy, 2 hongsamely a RS me -: Mountain West's first an inest bindery an printing house is prepared to bind your editions WORLD S FAIR into a durable volume. And Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. BLACK HILLS PASSION Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 PLAY Advance payment must accompany all orders. = Please include postage according to table listed All New York tours include: Show at below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Jones Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Show and a special event ticket at Zone land2 55 Zone6 90 World's Fair, etc. Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 = Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5.80 BLACK HILLS Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. 8 days — August 16 to August 23: re EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, Black Hills Passion Play Tour. A Esther James Tours PESERET_[PeEws PRESS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 99-8051 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 SPECIAL 10 DAY TOUR July 28 Fly to World's Fair for 3 days. Bus to Hill Cumorah Pageant, Sacred Grove, Kirtland Temple, Carthage Jail, Nauvoo, Liberty Jail, Winter Quarters Cemetery. SPECIAL HOLY LAND TOUR October 8th CONDITION one room or your whole house ELECTRICALLY! The proven way! ALL PERSONALLY ESCORTED Whichever way you air condition electrically, you'll enjoy these and many other advantages: Feel "Fresh as a Daisy" Rest Better Sleep Better Enjoy Filtered air. Now: New low rates for electricity for air conditioning or space heating in total electric homes. "Let Us Help You Travel Worry Free" Call or Write Murdock Jravol, Inc. (Your Experienced Travel Counselor) if it's electric, it's better! 14 South Main Salt Lake City 328-3161 ° UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. — fo] 559 DB ithdley Congratulations Ninety-four Mrs. Ida R. McEldowney Norwalk, California Ninety-three Mrs. Emma Goss Carter Brewster Centerville, Utah Mrs. May MacFarlane Brinton Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Marie Egley Beck Ovid, Idaho Mrs. Sarah Isabell Brown Sneed Elwood, Utah Mrs. Lauretta Mattinson Borup Layton, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Clara Ashford Martin Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eva Martell Hodson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Louisa Hofer Reichman Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Lucy Debenham Walker Fields Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Helen Hess van Ordstrand The Dalles, Oregon Mrs. Lily Ingram Parker Kennewick, Washington Mrs. Rachel Brown Jackson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Leota Bilyeu Aronogo, Missouri Mrs. Anna Hansen McCafferty Ephraim, Utah Mrs. Marcia Armstrong Jolley Provo, Utah Mrs. Catherine Adams Whitesides Burley, Idaho Faith's Magic Word Ida Elaine James They seemed like gnats before her eyes, Or sand that stings and challenges When every trouble multiplies No matter how one tries and tries. She dreamed of roses — there were none — Just sandburrs, worries, when she woke, But with her mind she painted one; Where loomed a desert, drew an oak. Where was no joy, this, too, she sketched Upon the barren plain of mind — And stars to shine where darkness stretched, So cleared her eyes that had been blind. Where heartache had been better known, These things she claimed became her own. 560 For Homemakers Everywhere THE ART OF TEACHING CHILDREN by Daryl J Hoole Just off the press! The author of the very popular The Art of Homemaking has now penned this extremely helpful and informative volume. Here is an invaluable aid to parents who need guidance in raising children in true Latter-day Saint homes. Here is a practical, experience-tested guide that will thrill every reader! Delightfully illustrated. $3.95 THE ART OF HOMEMAKING by Daryl V. Hoole Now in its sixth edition! This LDS best seller has made homemakers out of thousands of housewives! Here are practical suggestions to take drudgery out of housekeeping and make your home a haven of bliss and order. You'll be a much better wife and mother after reading this one. Illustrations add to the volume's value. $2.95 MAIL ORDERS FROM: — Deseret Book Company a> = 14 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah — a Dear Sir: Enclosed please find check [J money order (_] I have an account, please charge Cl}. Amount enclosed $- --; for books numbered = 1 2 COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN Seem 777 SO. MAIN ST. ORANGE, CALIFORNIA nn ee ee Ve Ee; WF ran Gily__ -------------Filip...----2a0-State --------- Residents of Utah include 3'/2% sales tax. RS. July 1964 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Eyecatching SUGAR Cartons Among your grocer's prominent display of home-grown, homeproduced U & I Sugar you'll soon be seeing the new look in U & I's carton sugars. The attractively new and "sweetly feminine" one pound Powdered Sugar carton is just one more attraction. Watch for the new Brown, Fine and Superfine cartons too! SUGAR COMPAN SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH UTAH-IDAHO; 