House of 2oith Carlton Culmsee Into the gray earth goeth the black seeds. Out of the gray earth cometh grass and blossoms. Into the hogan of mud goeth the silver blackened by the hands of many. Out of the hogan cometh the silver reborn Into beauty as new as dawn on the old hills. Out of the hogan of mud and the bower of brush Cometh blankets warm against the wind, Strong against the years, Beautiful as the red mesa in the moonlight. ''May it be beautiful below me. May it be beautiful above me. In beauty it is finished."' (The Relief Society Magazine, July 1938) The Cover: §— Navajo Shepherd, Transparency by Lucien Bown: Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: @ Nativity Scene, Photograph by Ray Loomis Art Layout: §% Dick Scopes IHustrations: 9] Mary Scopes Sy ae gap ane |. Enjoy very much to receive every month The Relief Society Magazine. It is thanks to my best girl friend Ann Reynolds, who lives in Ogden, Utah, that | get it. I! Like very much the stories, recipes, and lessons. | was very happy to meet President. Belle S. Spafford wher she was traveling in Europe. I! Felt her sweet spirit and could see that she was inspired by the Lord in all that she does. I am twenty years old and a member of Relief Society for almost two years now. | would like to tell all my sisters who are working for Relief Society | love you all and pray that God will bless each of you with his Spirit and with the blessings that you need. Elaine Gasquy Liege, Belgium The article by Olive W. Burt concerning the patchwork skirt (June 1964) was of special interest to me, since | spent a couple of pleasant evenings working on the skirt in Mrs. Burt's home. 1! Have since made a skirt of my own. Helen Fletcher Collins Dugway, Utah | feel | must write in explanation of an important point in my story ''Mama Lives in the Kitchen'' (February 1964), brought up in the April ''From Near and Far' section. In writing the story | did not mean to imply that the mother was "overwhelmed by kitchen work,"' or even felt that she was. Her kitchen was the heart of the house — and a sunny, happy heart it was. The fifteen-year-old daughter in the story thought her mother was abused because she was a romantic-minded girl whose ideas about marriage ended with the wedding... Perhaps | did not emphasize my point strongly enough, and | am grateful! To Sister Robinson for bringing it up. | enjoyed the April issue very much, especially '"'More Blessed to Receive"' (story by Nita Ellis), with its compelling theme. Lael J. Littke Monterey Park, California 562 ht The evening after | had read the story "The Storm," by Lila Spencer in the April Magazine, | was walking with a dear friend who had been denied the privilege of meeting two of her grandchildren. ''It just doesn't pay to get attached to anything,'' she said. For a moment.! Was at a loss for words. Then! Remembered the story. "The Storm." '"'No love is ever lost," | said, "'no love is ever wasted."' | pointed out that her grandsons were better off for having known her love through the years, and that she herself had grown from giving it. Thus, this grandmother was cheered and comforted: | cannot count the times that | myself have been comforted, cheered, and inspired by the Magazine. Donna Monzello Reseda, California The article ''How About a Get-It Done Day?" (by Vera Stocker, in the April Magazine), inspired this letter and others that | have written this morning. | read with emotion the story "More Blessed to Receive,'' by Nita Ellis, and can understand, because | was on the receiving end this past winter while family and friends waited on me, when | would rather have been up and doing for them. The Magazine contains such choice material. Recently, while visiting a friend, someone called at the last minute and asked her to give a spiritual thought in MIA that night. She asked me for suggestions and | immediately thought of the April Magazine | had just finished reading, and suggested the short thought ''Application,"" by Louise Murray. In my teaching in Church and at home | frequently find myself referring to stories and articles in the Magazine to enrich the lessons. Rosalie S. Wells Promontory, Utah | really appreciate the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. As a mother and wife # need the help that the Magazine gives me. Mrs. Melvin Billings Provo, Utah rhe Relief Society ". — Sl ey ee _—— > ee — 

Volume 51 August 1964 Number 8 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 564 For the Blessing of the Lamanites Boyd K. Packer 572 Singing Mothers Present Music at the American Mother Rainbow Awards Luncheon Marianne C. Sharp 580 Our Board Goes to Conference Marjorie M. Reeve 592 Promotion Posters for The Relief Society Magazine Gertrude Keeler Fiction 575 Mr. Lewis and the Ravens—Part I Ilene H. Kingsbury 588 The Someday Vacation Alice Gubler Sabin 604 Your Heart to Understanding—Chapter 7 Hazel M. Thomson Generai Features 562 From Near and Far 583 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 584 Editorial: "Compassion Becometh a Woman" Vesta P. Crawford 586 In Memoriam—Alice Bitner Castleton 587 Notes to the Field: The Relief Society Annual General Conference 587 Picture Kit for the 1964-65 Theology Lessons Available 587 Visual Aid Packet Available for 1964-65 Literature Lessons 611 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 640 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 596 Raw Apple Cookies Florence L. Mecham 596 Butter Mints Dorothy Scott 597 Pretty Pillows, Useful, Too Shirley Thulin 602 Gleanings From the Summer Nancy M. Armstrong 603 Pauline B. Wale's Hobby—Seventy Years of Quiltmaking 618 Theology—The Vision (Continued) Roy W. Doxey 624 Visiting Teacher Message—'And He Who Receiveth All Things With Thankfulness..." Christine H. Robinson 626 Work Meeting—Health and Its Influence on Happiness Winnifred C. Jardine 628 Literature—Literature "Tasted... Swallowed Digested' Robert K. Thomas 633 Social Science—The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations Ariel S. Ballif 561 House of Earth Carlton Culmsee Maria's Return, by Lottie H. Singley, 570; Nijoni (The Beautiful), by Helen Fletcher Collins, 571; The Evening and Morning of the First Day, by Carolle Denton, 574; Sequel, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 586; The Happy Children, by Linnie F. Robinson, 595; A Plea for Loveliness, by Alice Lowe Corbett, 601; I Stood on a Hilltop, by Vilate R. McAllister, 610; Lonely, by Catherine B. Bowles, 625; Golden Wedding Anniversary, by Ida Elaine James, 639; The Goodness of a Child, by Christie Lund Coles, 639. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Soints. C 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magozine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

For the Blessing of the Lamanites Elder Boyd K. Packer Assistant to the Council of the Twelve In March of this year almost two hundred teen-age Indian boys and girls gathered in Sandy, Utah, in a youth conference of the Indian Student Placement Program of the Church. They represented almost twenty Indian tribes, and they came from reservations spread over a wide area from Mexico on the south to Canada on the north. For the school term they had lived with non-Indian Latter-day Saint foster families throughout Utah and Arizona. The theme of their conference, selected by the students themselves, was "Our History Foretells Our Future." Those who visited the conference and observed the display of talent and leadership during the two days of activity would have agreed that a brightening future awaits these young people. In many ways they reflect the development and progress which is being achieved to an increasing degree by Indian people throughout the land. In fulfillment of Nephi's prophetic words (see 1 Nephi 15:13-14), the Lamanites in our day are, indeed, being restgred to their rightful place in the House of Israel. By their obedience to the principles of the gospel, they are beginning to 564 receive the blessings promised to their ancient fathers. In devising a theme for their conference, the Indian boys and girls gave recognition to the illustrious history and achievement of their forefathers, recounted in The Book of Mormon. Following the time of the Savior's visit to this hemisphere, the NephiteLamanite remnant reached a peak of perfection and righteous achievement. Fourth Nephi records: "And it came to pass the people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and_ disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another ''And now, behold, it came to pass that the people of Nephi did wax strong, and did multiply exceedingly fast, and became an exceedingly fair and delightsome people '"'And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God. "There were no robbers, nor murderers, neither were there Lamanites, nor any manner of -ites; but they were in one, the children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God" (4 Nephi: eeig, 16, 17). Topay thousands of Lamanites are coming into the Church. More than one hundred Lamanite branches have been organized among the stakes and within the missions. In many of these branches the leadership is provided by the Lamanite members. They are the branch presidents, the teachers, the auxiliary leaders, the music directors. With increasing effectiveness and with characteristic humility and devotion, they are carrying forward the program of the Church. Lives are being transformed. In some cases whole Indian communities are being affected. In the small Paiute Indian settlement near Cedar City, Utah, a beautiful new chapel points its spire to the sky. The building, faced with colorful native stone, is 2 monument to the dedication and energy of the members of the Cedar Indian Branch. Much of the work on the new chapel was done by the branch members themselves. To provide a lovelier setting for their chapel, the Indian people have undertaken a community improvement project. Homes and outbuildings are being painted; yards are being improved; fence lines and empty lots are being cleared of weeds and debris. A new sense of pride and industry seems to pervade the little community. The development taking place FOR THE BLESSING OF THE LAMANITES among these people has been reflected in yet another way. Recently the branch presidency was reorganized, and Franklin Benn, an Indian elder, was installed as the new president, the first Indian to serve in this capacity since the branch was organized. A growing number of Indian boys and girls are accepting calls to serve on full-time missions. At the time of this writing there are more than thirty Indian missionaries laboring in the two In- - dian missions. An added number are serving in other missions throughout the world. The Muddy River Indian Branch in the Moapa Stake, with a membership of fifty-five, has three missionaries in the field. If one were to visit the Pomo Indian Branch in the Santa Rosa Stake (California), the OmahaWinnebago Branch in Nebraska, or the Cattaraugus Branch in New York, he would find capable Indian members serving as Relief Society presidents, Sunday School superintendents, and branch leaders. Miore than six thousand Indian boys and girls are attending special Semimary classes which are being conducted across the Nation from New York and North Carolina to California and Oregon. Forty-seven Indian students were enrolled in the Brigham Young University during the 1963-64 school year, and there were hundreds in other institutions of higher learning. But the work is only beginning. There is a great deal yet to be done, and all of us share in the responsibility. Brigham 565 AUGUST 1964 Young charged the membership of the Church in his day to press forward with the work of redeeming Indian Israel. Speaking to a group of the saints in the Provo area, in 1855, he said, "Now, if this people, male and female, feel to school them [the Indians], spend time and pains to instil into their minds correct principles, to divide lard with them and will go to work and restore them to the knowledge of the truth the Lord God will bless them, and they will have nothing to fear. If you live up to this you will rise, while those who do not will go down. If this people will observe this covenant, and follow it one and all... Thousands and hundreds of thousands will embrace this Gospel, and for ought I know scores of thousands will become members of this Church" (J. D. 9:228-229). Nephi, seeing in vision the important role which the non-Indian members of the Church would have to play in this great latter-day work, said: '"'And after our seed is scattered the Lord God will proceed to do a marvelous work among the Gentiles, which shall be of great worth unto our seed; wheretofore it is likened unto their being nourished by the Gentiles and being carried in their arms and upon their shoulders" (1 Nephi 22:8). The work in behalf of our Lamanite brothers and _ sisters must go forward. They have waited long years for their restoration to the blessings of the gospel. The Lord has placed a direct responsibility upon the members of the Church to see that the great work of redemption does not falter. Every Latter-day Saint should be a friend and a champion of the Indian people. We must be certain that blessings are not withheld because of any indifference or intolerance on our part. Our patient labor in behalf of Lehi's seed can help them to reclaim their inheritance in this land. "And then at that day will they not rejoice and give praise unto their everlasting God, their rock and their salvation? Yea, at that day, will they not receive the strength and nourishment from the true vine? Yea, will they not come unto the true fold of God? "Behold, I say unto you, Yea; they shall be remembered again among the house of Israel; they shall be grafted in, being a natural branch of the olive-tree, into the true olive-tree" (1 Nephi 15:15-16). And behold, ye are the children of the prophets; and ye are of the house of Israel; and ye are of the covenant which the Father made with your fathers..- (3 Nephi 20:25). o: * BS - of Gusher Branch, Utah, Indian Relief Society (Ute) Front row, left to right: Emma Cireech; Eva Burson; Maryetta Reed, visitor; Vonnie Dahlberg; Stella LaRose. Back row, left to right: Uintah Stake Relief Society Presidency: Norda Cook, Second Counselor; Elouise Turner, President: Helen H. Walker, First Counselor; Sister Hardinger; Vera Olsen, former president, Gusher Indian Mission Relief Society; Zelda Reynolds; Bertha Slaugh; Mary May Murray. Most of these sisters subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine and enjoy it very much. 567 District and Branch Presidents, at Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society Convention Holbrook, Arizona, July 1963 Front row, left to right: Ester Belabody, President, Moencopi Arizona Branch Relief Society; Helen Sekaquoptewa, Oraibi, Arizona, First Counselor in the Mission Relief Society Presidency; Bonne Marseing, President, Tuba City District; Vera Price, Supervisor, Arizona Indian Relief Societies. Back row, left to right: Elizabeth M. Baird, Supervisor, Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society; June Young, Chinle, Arizona, President, Central Navajo Relief Society; Martha D. Paice, Supervisor, New Mexico Indian Relief Society; Alice Overson, President, Keams District Relief Society; Judith Chamema, Counselor in the Indian Branch, Holbrook, Arizona. Some of these sisters traveled more than 150 miles each way to attend the convention. Ee. "a i care. 2 iia pe MS... 0s, llamas: td Omaha-Winnebago, Walt Hill, Nebraska, Relief Society Handwork and Sewing Projects 568 Albuquerque, New Mexico, Relief Society Work Meeting Committee (Navajo and Pueblo) Northern Indian Mission, Wolf Point, Montana, Lamanite Relief Society Displays Bazaar Items Front row, left to right: Vonda Rae Beauchman; Velma Tramblee. Back row, left to right: Emma Beauchman; Leonara C. Red Elk; President, Wolf Point Branch Relief Society; Evan A. May; June N. Ashton (former editorial assistant, Relief Society Magazine) President, Hi-Line District Relief Society; Louise R. Christensen, missionary. Many of the sisters were absent when this picture was taken. As the temperature was 25 degrees below zero (in November 1963). Beautiful handwork and quilts are specialties of these sisters. 569 +. ~~, % 4% a nes: 4 % %; ' m, n, ee G Bis % i ' ' yas — Fs, Wittig te Be 7 4,, i Poppi, ey a. Tucson Branch, Arizona, Lamanite Relief Society (Papago) Seated in front, teft to right: Lucille Palino; Margaret Tso; Ruth Norris. Standing at the back: Irene Leonard, President, Tucson Lamanite Branch Relief Society; Bahe Billy, President; Tucson Lamanite Branch; Rafaela Garcia. Faithful Lamanite sisters hold all the offices in the branch Relief Society. The sisters are very artistic and skilled in their native crafts. Maria's Return Lottie H. Singley (Through The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints' Indian Student Placement Program, Maria has lived in the home of Mrs. Singley's daughter, Carma S. Crosby, for the school period during the last five years. She is as dear to the family as any child could be.) How could one help but love her, This child of the desert plain; Maria, lovely Maria, is our little Navajo's name. She ran as fleet as a young fawn, Wind wafting her raven hair; The light in her eyes did pirouettes, Her feet balleted supple and bare. Her teeth shone as white as goat's milk, As | cuddled her quivering form; Neither could speak as we clung cheek to cheek, Oh, Maria! My Navajo born. 570 {joni (The Beautiful) — Helen Fletcher Collins As a Navajo garment -. The circling distant hills Will be my purple velvet blouse; Vermilion cliffs, my swirling skirts. Upon my feet will be moccasins, Red and yellow sand fastened With white thongs from the ribboned granite. Rom the turquoise dome | shall cut Blue sky-stones for my squash-blossom necklace, Desert lakes strung on tenuous wires ea _Of rivers that run beneath their own beds. | "—- My concho belt will be little towns % "Spaced along reservation highways 4 * Or half-hidden on Indian pony trails.: 4 From the dawn and the dusk | shall fashion a * Silver rings and bracelets and bangles; %. Sheer walls of a thousand painted canyons =. _ Will cover me with a striped shawl. An 'the smooth black night { shall brush my hair with moonbeams _ And dress it with a band of stars. singing Mothers Present Music at the American Mother Rainbow Awards Luncheon Counselor Marianne C. Sharp.. The song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads. THe Singing Mothers of New York and New Jersey Stakes, under the baton of Sister Ellen Neilson Barnes, gave a spiritually moving and impressive experience on May 8, 1964, to the hundreds assembled in the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria, New York, at the Rainbow Awards Luncheon of the American Mothers Committee, Inc. This luncheon honored the American Mother of 1964, Mrs. Cora Stavig, and the other forty-nine State Mothers. These hundred singers, a third of the group which sang at the New York World's Fair on June 24 and 25, were invited by the American Mothers Committee, whose able and gracious President is Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, to provide musical selections at the luncheon. Five numbers were rendered: "America the Beautiful," 'Dear Land of Home," ''Give Me Your 572 Tired, Your Poor," "No Man Is an Island," and "You'll Never Walk Alone,' with Melva Barborka, soprano, Louise Pratt, harpist, and Clara Neu, accompanist. Mrs. Barnes typifies the ideal Singing Mother conductor. She conducted the numbers in an impressive but restrained way which focused the attention on the glorious music which poured forth. No applause was allowed between the numbers, but an encore "Come, Come, Ye Saints" was called for, followed by a standing ovation from the densely standing audience. The Singing Mothers were grouped at the back of the dais and hidden by elegant draperies which parted to reveal the Singing Mothers. A backdrop depicting a rainbow set off the four rows of Singing Mothers in their white blouses. The ballroom presented a Relief Society Singing Mothers at the Awards Luncheon For the American Mother of the Year Waldorf-Astoria, New York City, May 8th The conductor Mrs. Ellen Barnes stands in the center (in dark dress); Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, President, American Mothers Committee, Inc., is seated at the left of the WaldorfAstoria sign; seated at the right of Mrs. Lewis is the American Mother of the Year, Mrs. Cora Stavig of Sioux Falls, South Dakota: Mrs. Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and a Director of the American Mothers Committee, is seated third from the left in the second row. The Singing Mothers in the picture are Relief Society members from New York and New Jersey. Beautiful rainbow setting with each of the tables, seating ten, being ringed by rainbow-colored candles. There were four graduated rows of officers and honored guests seated on the dais. A highlight of the luncheon was the Procession March of the Mothers, each carrying a candle. In addition to honoring American Mothers, special citations were made to "Three American Patriots": Mr. Russell De Young, Chairman of the Board, the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company; Mr. Conrad Hilton, President, Hilton Hotels and Hilton International; and Mr. Frank F. Samford, Chairman of the Board, Liberty National Life Insurance Company. President Belle S. Spafford has served on the Board of Directors of the American Mothers Committee Inc. For eight years. Mrs. G. Stanley McAllister, Chairman of Music, is the wife of the President of the New York Stake; and Mrs. David J. Wilson, a VicePresident, is the wife of Judge David J. Wilson, and was formerly a member of the Relief Society General Board. The attractive program includ- 573 AUGUST 1964 ed the following information on Relief Society: The one hundred-voice Relief Society Singing Mothers Chorus singing at this Rainbow Awards Luncheon is from adjacent metropolitan areas of the New York and New Jersey Stakes of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They are a segment of the large Singing Mothers Chorus of Relief Society women that will present four concerts at the New York World's Fair June 24 and 25. Director of the chorus is Mrs. Ellen Neilson Barnes, graduate of the New England Conservatory of Music, and concert pianist, teacher and _ choral conductor of Washington, D. C. There were eighteen women present when Relief Society was organzied in Nauvoo, [llinois, in 1842. Today there are 262,000 members of this organization in 6,353 chapters in fiftytwo countries of the world. Almost half of these chapters have Singing Mothers Choruses, with a combined total of 42,000 singers. For special programs and concerts, the singers in several chapters may be brought together as a combined Singing Mothers Chorus such as is singing today. Music, especially the song of the heart, is an integral part of the Relief Society program, and is regarded as indispensable to the cultural development, spiritual growth, and joy of Relief Society members. Honorary Presidents of the American Mothers Committee are Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower and Mrs. Daniel A. Poling. A statue of "The Mother" by Avard Fairbanks is _ presented each year to the Mother of the Year. This year the presentation was made by Dr. G. Roy Fugal, Chairman of the Advisory Committee and son of Mrs. Lavina C. Fugal, Utah Mother of the Year in 1955, who was chosen American Mother of that year. The Evening and Morning of the First Day Carolle Denton | look into the dark of night, My eyes wakeful for revealed light. The midnight be my soul's release, And sunrise tell me thou art peace. The shadows now on every slope Are lessening, and | gain hope That thou wilt measure and wilt find More light within my life, my mind. Thy sun came near in time of youth, And touched the days of life with truth. The rays that reached my heart have told Thy love... In syllables of gold. | look to find the dawning light & Has faded all the shades of night. Thou art the sunshine and the peace That bring my soul a bright release. 574 Mister Lewis and the Ravens Part I Mik Lewis was the only man in that pioneer community § in Southern Utah, who was called Mister. All the rest wore a kindred sort of title — Brother. The lilt of their phrases may not have matched in cadence, accent, or guttural or nasal twang with those of their townsmen; but that distinctive title of Brother denoted a consanguinity not racial, not linguistic, but theological. Mister Lewis, therefore, was not to be identified with the other males of the settlement. Quite obviously he was the odd one. First, he had no wife or child. Second, he was not a professed Christian. In addition, he lived on the valley side of town, in the midst of his fields; whereas the rest of the inhabitants lived in a compactly planned Ps ecmmmgp yen gridiron of lots and blocks and fences and ditches. Their contiguous living tended to stylize them. They conformed to a pattern believed safer, saner, and more economical than was usually practiced in frontier lands. Mister Lewis did not conform. If you had met any man thereabouts you could tell after a short conversation and a scrutiny of his hat and shoes whether he was from Dixie, Sanpete, Orderville, or Iron County. But if you met Mister Lewis you would have guessed, rather incorrectly, that he was a "Sydney Duck" or a refugee from an area of global unrest afar off — ousted, as the oldtimers expressed it. His ways were of the hermit — offish best described him. One could not determine precisely 575 AUGUST 1964 that he had crossed the road to avoid a greeting, but somehow he was on the opposite side, passing almost stealthily where but a moment ago he was approaching head on. His eyes veiled his thoughts, his seclusion obliterated his past. * *e Ke K AWN aproned, bonneted woman stood at her gate hoping at last to stay Mister Lewis in his march toward the fields. As she saw him coming now, of course across the way, she wanted to open the gate and run to him with open arms, as one might toward a long lost child. But if her impulse was to cry to him gratitude deep and reverent, her feet remained embedded in the soil. His demean held her in her own dooryard. She could not ascertain whether he had noticed her, or even knew that this was her house. He shambled on, peering into his puzzling past, remote and inaccessible. The woman believed she must do something immediately to get his attention or he would be beyond hailing sound. Too late now to run after him, she thought, so she called loudly, 'Mister Lewis! Thank you for bringing your cow here every morning and night! The milk was all little Hebe could keep on his stomach!" The inexorable pace of Mister Lewis plagued her. His only acknowledgment that he had heard her was to flick a stone from his path with a stick he carried. The woman accepted this vague response as more than was to be expected of him. At least he knew she was indebted to him. She must think of some 576 way to repay his kindness. He moved forward now with a vigor much as if he followed a plow. His thoughts remained _illusive and uninterrupted. She glanced toward the earth a foot or two along the fence line. There was a hollow there, a smoothed-out spot where the red sand had become a path for a pail of milk. It was this hollow that bore direct connection with Mister Lewis. As the woman thought about it she could not understand how a man as remote in his thinking and as reluctant to converse as Mister Lewis was, could have found out, in the first place, that her seven children were down with diphtheria. How he found out was not her business, but it seemed most unusual. This, too, before the orange flag of quarantine was nailed to her gate to cry its message. However, after that information had seeped through to him, he became a person of determination. The fatherless children could not get out of bed to care for themselves, then, obviously, someone must aid them. As he was mortally afraid of the disease that daily sent homemade varieties of caskets to the cemetery, he could not bring himself to touch the gate, let alone go inside the house. His plan of helpfulness, then, must be one worked from a very safe distance. He rightly guessed that fresh food was desperately needed. After multiple schemes had _ been weighed, he had solved it all by driving his milk cow across the fields to the town, toward the homesteader's gate. Across his shoulder were slung two tin buckets, recently fashioned by himself. They resembled coal scuttles in size and shape; however covers were welded on with little beads of solder in a bumpy decoration along the joinings. The spouts were uncovered. It was through each tapered opening that the milk was received in practiced jets from the source of supply, and from which it flowed when the vessel was tipped forward. In true scuttle fashion, a horizontal handle, much resembling a dresser drawer pull, aided in the transfer of milk from one bucket to another. Mister Lewis had designed these unorthodox milk cans sometime previously, when he found that the covers to his regular cans kept getting lost or dented. Now he had a chance to prove his inventiveness. THe first day of his proposed beneficence saw him ushering his cow along the valley roads toward the settlement. As before stated, his milk buckets were slung over his shoulder, one in front, the other dangling down his back. Townspeople whom he passed said Mister Lewis looked as if he were a dairy on the hoof. This time they were right. His reasoning was that it was easier to take the milk to the homesteader in this manner than to fill the buckets with milk on his property and then trudge with it slopping out the spout all across lots. Besides, a certain saving in feed was guaranteed. Ditch banks were overgrown with luxuriant lucern tufts which afforded excellent forage. Such bounty from private fields was considered pubMISTER LEWIS AND THE RAVENS lic property. A leisurely return, after the milking, afforded abundant energy for another milking. As Mister Lewis approached his goal that first day, he bethought himself to gain the attention of those within the house without actually going to the door and knocking upon it. From his past he recalled a halloo, a sort of wail, a screech in three syllables, a blood-curdling cry. He drew a deep breath and tried it. As he had not voiced this alarm since he was in the American Civil War, the result startled even himself. Instantly, the homesteader opened her door with the frightened question of what added catastrophe was upon her now! When Mister Lewis saw her he ceased his signal of arrival and halted the cow. He put one of his buckets on the ground near the fence and placed the other near the animal. As his head ducked to the flank of the cow and his hands grasped the udder, he half shouted to the amazed woman still standing in the open doorway, "Just heard you have sickness. I'll come by night and morning with some milk. Leave the bucket on your side of the fence." 'That was all he said. The woman said, "Mister Lewis, you are a good man." She turned toward her door. And went in. She closed it softly behind her. The fever-ridden children saw that their mother was crying. Perhaps that awful yelling outside was too much for her, they thought. However, they knew that their mother had never been afraid of anything in the whole wide world. Weakness in- 577 AUGUST 1964 duced by contagion proved too much for prolonged contemplation. No one asked her what was the matter. Out by the gate all was silent except for the metallic zing of the milk as it rhythmically struck the spout of the bucket. Left, right, left, right went the forceful stream into the deepening liquid. When the level showed to the spout, Mister Lewis arose from his crouched position and gently lifted his offering and carried it to the empty pail by the fence. He tilted the container, controlled it by the handle at the back, and let the milk run into the waiting spout. As the stream dwindled, he jiggled the bucket to free the last drops, then gently slid the full bucket under the lowest pole of the fence. With a business-like motion, he picked up his empty bucket, clicked his tongue at the cow, and grasped the rope which was attached to her halter. Without a backward glance or a repeated yell, he turned and went to his house. THE woman knew how long it took to milk a cow. When enough time had elapsed she went out of her house and walked toward her gate. Already Mister Lewis was beyond earshot. She leaned forward toward the steaming milk. She grasped the handle of the bucket, steadied it with her other hand, and dragged it toward her to clear the pole of the fence. She hefted it off the ground and carefully balanced it so that noi a drop would fall. She carried it into the house. This pattern of approach, yell, 578 milking, under-the-fence procedure, and carry to the house went on day after day, morning and night, until the children were strong again and until they grew to expect the warning cry and the delicious milk. Weeks passed. Mister Lewis never failed them. As one crisis after another came and went, the perpetual supply of food on the hoof was given the credit for recovery. Also, as this was a household of faith, an evening prayer was offered in behalf of Mister Lewis, who perhaps was not in the habit of praying for himself. As the mother leaned on the gate and glanced first at the passing figure of Mister Lewis, then at the hollow in the sand, she thought a prophecy to herself. She thought: May the ways of Providence guide my children to feed Mister Lewis when even the ravens have failed him. THE little boy simply could not open the screen door. The basket of eggs he carried was too heavy to be held in one hand while bracing the door with the other. Two factors were present, besides the heft of his load. The first was the coil spring on the door. The second was the perspiring palm of the pale child. It slipped off the knob every time he grasped it. His condition forbade a show of strength. His pride entered here, too. Humility and embarrassment came near felling him at his repeated failures. One month before this he had possessed strength to throw that spring as if it came from a watch. Now his hands sweated, his knees buckled, and his head swam. He tottered. The proprietor of the store, to which the spring and the door belonged had tried other sorts of wires, girlish in coiled power, but ever and ever he was calling after customers, "Shut the door!"' Depending upon the sex or refinement of the offender, he added an expletive for emphasis. Only last week he had attached a spring, a gate-sized thing which he attached to the door with great screws. It bade fair to tear the door apart. To prevent this, the man had crossbraced it with two iron bars. The boy, Hebe by name, decided to set the eggs down, open the door, prop it open with his leg, then twist himself about, pick up the basket, and squeeze himself through. He hoped to do all this before anyone saw him. Therefore, with his plan in mind, he rested, paused, drew a deep breath, wiped his trembling fingers across his shirt, hitched up his pants, and turned to grasp the door handle. He jerked with his whole weight and strength. The door loosened first from the top corner, then reluctantly from the lower edge. The boy inserted his knee in the space then shouldered in his body. The bear trap was open at last. He turned himself about to pick up the basket of eggs. They were nowhere in sight! He cried out involuntarily. He squeezed himself out of the door and it shot to a close behind him. He took a step or two to the end of the porch. There was his basket as if it had taken legs and walked! He picked it up and turned to try the door again. He looked about him to make sure no one was near. MISTER LEWIS AND THE RAVENS This time he put the basket next to the frame of the door where he could see it at every move. At this try he knew more exactly how much strength to use. He opened the thing, put his knee in, and stooped to grasp the basket. As he did so, a pair of manured boots cast a shadow at his feet. As if caught in the act, the man straightened up and dusted off his pants leg with the hand that had almost grasped the basket. The boy knew who had moved the eggs the first time. The squinted, crafty glint in the prankster's eyes matched his shiftless gait and his asthmatic gurgle. He was self-satisfied at having caused mischief to one who could not possibly pay in kind. He became emboldened as the boy, in speechless surprise, stepped aside to let him pass. In doing so, the lad lost his leverage on the spring and the door banged shut in a volume of sound that shook the walls. At that instant the tormentor opened the door and stepped inside. As he did so he threw a hook latch into an eye of a screw. The boy did not see this motion, but proceeded again to attempt an entrance. His tug at the handle brought the most startling of results. First, from within came a great horse laugh of triumph. The boy determined to give up his errand and return home. He picked up his basket, but at a deafening sound of fury from within, from quite another voice, he paused stupefied. He peered through the two thicknesses of rusted screen. He was fascinated by the promise of tumult and catastrophe. (To be concluded) AAMoNG many of the blessings of being a stake board member is the privilege of going to Relief Society General Conference each fall. Our stake was organized in October 1956. We had just missed being able to attend conference. Immediately we made plans for the following year. We were ready to leave early on a Saturday morning. Friday evening a telegram arrived telling us that conference was cancelled because of the flu epidemic. Another long year to wait. Now each year we make plans in November for the coming trip the next fall. Board members make plans early, always using the positive approach. When a new member comes on the board, she is asked to plan to go to Salt 580 President, Kansas City Stake Relief Society Marjorie M. Reeve Lake City for the Relief Society Annual General Conference. Traveling a round trip of 2500 miles in a car is about the best way to get acquainted with one another. The trip takes two days each way. It is looked forward to with anticipation, to meeting friends—yes, but most of all to be spiritually fed. What a thrill it is to kneel in prayer night and morning with these sisters. The driver knows how careful she must be. We have, indeed, a precious group. We are always busy doing something. Eating is such a pleasant, fattening pastime for women, and believe me, we do plenty of it! We plan it for weeks. Hot postum, bouillon, chocolate, soup, crackers, cheese, tomatoes, car- rot and celery sticks, sandwiches, chips and dip, and fruits of all kinds. Well, you name it, we take it. One year a board member was expecting her ninth child and was unable to make the trip. She colored hard-boiled eggs and put our names on them. Easter in October! We felt so appreciative that we carefully peeled the eggs and sent the shells back to her, arranging them in her cleverly decorated carton. Last year one ward bazaar was to be held soon after our return. We crocheted two afghans while riding to and from Utah. If a sister became ill from looking down while working, she soon found herself driving, so the other five could work. No shirkers are allowed to make the trip. The second morning at 7:30 A. M. We were going through a small town in Colorado, just two blocks ahead of us was a 60-mile sign. The driver started to resume speed, and soon we heard a siren (the only time we have been stopped). The policeman was overcome at seeing five women busy at work with materials spread all over the car. He just cautioned us to drive carefully, and wished us a safe journey. We were so impressed with this courtesy that on the way home we wanted to thank him. It was noon when we arrived at the police station and the policemen were home to lunch. We explained to the receptionist that we wished to thank the officer, not knowing this small town had more than two or three on duty. Each rider naturally gave a different description of the officer. The confused receptionist phoned for the OUR BOARD GOES TO CONFERENCE chief, as she seemed to think he might fit the officer whom we so feebly described. He arrived in due time, probably leaving a hot meal. As soon as he got out of the car we knew he was not the man in question. We have often wondered if our officer friend may have been rebuked because of his kindness to us, and our desire to reciprocate. Songs have been composed, plans for the Relief Society year made, and once a complete PTA skit program was organized. We have learned a great deal as the years have passed. For instance, at first our songs after the first line or two were finished with la, la, la, all wishing we could remember the words. Now we take song sheets, pamphlets, and songbooks. Our singing has improved tremendously. We have learned, when leaving on a Sunday, how far we must travel before stopping for sacrament meeting. Our first theology lesson is given in the car, and a testimony meeting follows. We always plan an evening in the temple. The first year that I sat in the temple with these dear sisters, I cried most of the time. It is indeed a thrill to be able to sit in the house of the Lord with sisters with whom you work so closely and love so dearly. THE return trip is most inspirational. As we drive up through the scarlet-covered mountains, our hearts are overflowing with the glorious things we have been told, the inspired program for the coming year, the well-portrayed playlets, the beautiful reception. All these have filled our hearts. The board members stand outside the Tabernacle for hours to be able to 581 AUGUST 1964 attend the Church General Conference. I actually weep when thinking of the testimony it gives those who have always lived in the mission field. I pondered, did I truly appreciate this while I lived in the Bee Hive State? A long dream has now come true. Our stake Relief Society Singing Mothers are going to be able to attend Relief Society General Conference in 1964 as a group! We are going to sing Wednesday morning at the Officers Meeting. Plans have been made— temple excursions, a planned trip to the Brigham Young University, and General Conference. Yes, we must keep busy. We plan to have a stake opening social on the chartered train. Each ward and branch will present a part. It will be conducted on the order of a road show, going from car to car. Some husbands and children are going, as they are new converts and will be sealed. What a wonderful wedding we can all attend. If you wish to strengthen your stake board, go to conference. Partake, as we do, of this great and glorious program. Listen to our dear presidency. The sisters in your stake need this strength you receive, don't deprive them of it. Yes, our board goes to Relief Society Conference. We couldn't afford to miss it. We need to be spiritually fed, we need to have our batteries recharged. What a thrill it is! But the biggest thrill is to return and kneel in prayer with your family and thank the Lord for the safe trip, and the support of the loved ones left at home. Our Singing Mothers Pep Song (Lively March Tune) We're gonna — go, go, go to Salt Lake City. Come on, Singing Mothers, let's go — — We're gonna sing, sing, sing in Salt Lake City, Relief Society Conference, you know — — With great anticipation, with plans and preparation, We'll have a wonderful time — — We'll have to practice often, our husbands we will soften To get out ev'ry nickel and dime — We're gonna go, go, go to Salt Lake City, Come on, Singing Mothers, lets go — —! Some eyes see beauty where others do not think it can be found. For what are you looking? There is the great difference. 582 — Zara Sabin AN V. Wo mans Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RUTH LYONS has received the highest "Golden Mike'' Award from McCall's Magazine for her outstanding service to children's hospitals throughout the United States, in providing them with therapeutic playroom and playground equipment, bought by funds secured through an appeal over radio and television stations. Other award winners were Marty Camp for her service in the field of education; Ella Harllee for her program ''Focus on World Affairs'; Lucy Jarvis for an enlightening program on world affairs; Helen Kimball for her direction of a program to awaken public awareness of the plight of displaced children; Marlene Sanders for her broadcasts on community problems; and Alice Weston for her broadcasts on alcoholism. THE PRESIDENT'S Commission on the Status of Women in the United States has reported that one in ten women does not marry; one of three workers in the economy is a woman; and more than half of all women in the fortyfive to fifty-four age bracket are in paid employment. GINA BACHAUER, a renowned Greek pianist, is winning international acclaim and adding to her laurels as one of the greatest of living pianists. The vigor of her technique makes her a ''dazzling performer,'' and her repertoire ranges from Mozart to Stravinsky. She has appeared in hundreds of concerts throughout the world. In March she appeared in the Salt Lake Tabernacle with the Utah Symphony Orchestra in a rendition of Bach's "St. Matthew Passion." RISE STEVENS, famed mezzo soprano, has been appointed one of two general managers of the new Metropolitan Opera National Company. This is a joint project of the Metropolitan Opera and Kennedy Center in Washington, D. C., designed to give America's best young singers performing experience, and people throughout the country the opportunity of hearing live opera of top quality professional performance. For the 1965-66 season, 220 performances have already been planned. MARIE SKORA, wife of the American Consul General in Caracas, Venezuela, has presented a showing of woodcuts and other etchings in several United States galleries, including the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D. C., and also in national art exhibits in several Venezuelan cities. Her work is considered of excellent artistic quality. FRAU ROSEMARIE STRAUSS, of Vienna, Austria, is a city planner who believes ''Clean cities are not enough. They must be full of beauty, too A city must have a soul.'' She has campaigned for both cleanliness and beauty ever since her city began rebuilding itself out of the mass of rubble it became during World War I. During the International Congress of Town Clearing in Vienna, in April, the world's greatest flower show also opened there, in a grand park built especially for the occasion. EDITORIAL... Enlarge your souls toward each other, if you would do like Jesus bear with each other's feelings. As you increase in innocence and virtue, as you increase in goodness, let your hearts expand, let them be enlarged toward others (from an address by the Prophet Joseph Smith to the Relief Society, April 28, 1842). I. Has been said that compassion is that high intergrity of spirit which will not let one ''pass by on the other side'' when the shelter of one's presence is needed. There is no pathway of life so free from shadows that it does not require the light of a woman's face and the ministry of her willing hands. A recognition and an understanding of the problems, the disappointments, and the grief of others is necessary to the full and free exercise of compassion, for in true compassion one must enter the life of another, feel the sorrows of another, and say or do that which will make the burden lighter. Compassion is an awareness that ''pity and need make all flesh kin."' After the feeling must come the doing, the giving, the bestowal of some element of healing and help. Often the mere presence of a sympathetic person in a place of trouble or sorrow can be of great benefit. It is as if the compassionate woman might be saying, '"! Am here. Lean a little on me. Let me do some of the lifting." Compassion can be expressed over distances through letters, telephone calls, gifts of books, and personal remembrances. One homebound woman, possessing neither physical strength nor financial resources, made telephone calls to other homebound sisters and offered compassionate solicitude and comfort in words of uplifting cheerfulness. Another sister, instead of saying ''! Do not know of anyone who needs me," expressed a more discerning and sympathetic attitude. Knowing well that in mortal life someone always is in need, she accepted the personal responsibility of ''seeking out objects of charity.'' Her swift and eager footsteps brightened many doors, and she bestowed freely her gifts of food and Volume 51 August 1964 Number 8 e Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor e Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer raiment, and the comfort of her presence. For her, and for other compassionate women, these Biblical promises apply: For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love, which ye have shewed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints, and do minister.... Wherein God, willing more abundantly to shew unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel... Which hope we have as an anchor to the soul, both sure and steadfast (Hebrews 6:10, 17, 19).. There is, perhaps, a most natural compassion when one kindly answers the needs of a loved one, for then the wellsprings of the heart flow freely from the deep fountains of family love or devoted friendship. It is a more difficult compassion that we must cultivate toward the stranger — toward one alien to us in circumstances or belief or habit. Then it is that our compassion must be widened and disciplined and partake of the spirit of the Good Samaritan who did not ask the name of the needy one upon the highway. Too much indifference toward the welfare of others is continually demonstrated before us. Many could be rescued from spiritual or physical harm by those who are so concerned for the welfare of others that they would, at every opportunity, be their brother's keeper, the one to come swiftly when help is needed. The gracious, compassionate woman has learned that among the Heavenly Father's family upon the earth, there are those in certain places along life's journey who stand in particular need of a woman's compassion. These are they who are at the beginning or at the end of life — the children and the aged, for they are defenseless and wait before us in the pleading of their most vulnerable years., it is to them with special concern that the compassionate woman responds 'Yin accordance with her nature."' — V. P. C. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Eina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva Barlow Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles In Memoriam ALICE BITTNER CASTLETON Mrs. Alice Bitner Castleton, a member of the General Board of Relief Society during the presidency of Amy Brown Lyman, from 1940 to 1945, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, May 23, 1964. She had, previous to her call to the Board, been a ward and stake Relief Society president and she gave freely of her devotion, knowledge, and Relief Society experience to the General Board, serving on committees for community activities and, especially, on the literature, social science, and plays and pageants committees. Sister Castleton is remembered with much love and appreciation by"those who were her companion members of the Board. Her solicitude for the welfare of others and her ready willingness to be hetpful in word and deed endeared her to friends and associates, and she is remembered as a lovely and devoted woman who exemplified the qualities which Relief Society women hope to achieve in their own lives. The General Board extends sympathy and love to the-members of her large family and to her many friends whose lives have been enriched through association with Sister Castleton. Sequel Dorothy J. Roberts We have borne this sound before, This closing of brief childhood's door — First in his mother. Now in him The eighth year showed up, tall and trim, To turn the knob and take away The little lad of yesterday. His want once filled the emptied lap; Now perched on edge, he twirls his cap. Hushed, the siren of his ''whys?'' Resisting the rush of our goodbyes. Now, turn-about, our bread returns — Regret for each brief leaving, burns. Only his eyes need assurance; there Is no one like him, anywhere. Now, not as he had been, bereft, Heels drumming anguish as he left — Impelled, he lopes across the lawn, And with one longing look, is gone. 586 Notes to the Field The Relief Society Annual General Conference The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 30 and October 1. The general session will be held on Wednesday, September 30, from 2 to 4 P. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, September 30, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, October 1, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, September 30, from 7 to 10 in the Relief Society Building. Picture Kit for 1964-65 Theology Lessons Available A picture kit for use as a visual aid in presenting the theology lessons for 1964-65 is available at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, price $1.00, plus 10c for postage. The kit consists of black and white pictures of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Newel K. Whitney, Lorenzo Snow, Wilford Woodruff, Orson Hyde, and Joseph F. Smith; and colored pictures of Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, Frederick G. Williams, and Edward Partridge. Visual Aid Packet Available for 1964-65 Literature Lessons Appropriate visual aids can be of great assistance to a class leader. If wisely used, they can enrich the lesson material by adding interest, strengthening a point, and clarifying an idea. They also can be used effectively in introducing or concluding a lesson. A picture packet of carefully planned visual aids for the 1964-65 literature lessons may be obtained from the Department of Audio-Visual Communication, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, 84601; or from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. The cost is $3.50 postpaid, and the packet will be available September 1, 1964. It will contain eight sheets, consisting of a literature evaluation chart; portraits of three authors (Browning, Galsworthy, and Burns); reproductions of three paintings ("Tintern Abbey," The '"Syndics" and "The Vigil'); and a Grecian urn. 587 LLIE, you aren't eating your = supper." Mother looked at me in concern. I choked. 'Really mother, I just can't seem to swallow tonight." Nancy eyed the food before her. "'Me, too. How come your stomach gets all tied up in knots when you're excited?" "That's 'cause you're thinking too much, like me.'"' Tom reached for his fourth muffin. '""When I shut my eyes, I can just see the fish splashing and the sun shining on the water. I almost can't eat either, just thinking about it." "Now look here." Daddy put down his fork. "We can't take a pack of starved coyotes along with us. You young ones better relax and eat your supper. You'll need energy to help finish packing. We're going to get an early start in the morning." "Don't urge them to eat," Grandma said. 'There were times when I was a child that I'd get too excited to eat. Just the thoughts of going places did it to me." We looked gratefully at Grandma. She always understood. We had plenty of energy to help finish loading. Daddy didn't 588 need to worry. After all, ever since I could remember, we had been going to go to Yellowstone someday. It was going to be someday when Daddy had enough vacation time coming to make the trip worthwhile; and someday when there weren't too many bills to pay, and someday when Daddy and Mother didn't have special meetings to interfere, and a hundred and one other reasons. Well, believe it or not, that someday had actually arrived. It was no longer a dream but a reality. Daddy had rented the biggest camper he could get. It had two bedrooms, if you can call them rooms, one for Grandma, and one for Daddy and Mother. It had a gas refrigerator and stove and running water and — well just about all of the comforts of home. Daddy said he just loved to rough it. Nancy and Tom and I had sleeping bags. We wanted to sleep under the stars. Daddy put in a tent, ''just in case." I washed the supper dishes and Grandma wiped. "You're excited, too, aren't you, Grandma?" I grinned. "You only nibbled instead of eating." She winked at me. "Tom and your daddy don't need to think they're the only fishermen in the family. I reckon we women folks might even show them up a bit." The look on her face gave me a merry feeling. One thing troubled me about fishing. That was worms. Tom had a bait can full of them. I couldn't tell Grandma I'd never touched a worm. I'd have to figure out some natural way to get someone else to bait my hook. I don't believe Mother cared much for worms, either. She was packing embroidery work and gathering up some magazines to read. As she reached for her Relief Society Magazine, an unopened letter fell to the floor. She picked it up and looked at the postmark. The letter was two weeks old. Quickly she tore it open. For a minute I thought she was going to faint. She dropped into a chair and sat staring at the paper. It was an important letter, for sure. Mother straightened. '""Who put this inside my magazine?" She held out the letter like it was a document from the President of the United States. We all looked at each other. The air was very tense. "Ellie? Tom? Nancy?" As she looked at each of-us, we mutely shook our heads. Dappy cleared his throat. "I'm sorry, dear. I am the guilty one. I picked up the mail one day when I was on an errand. I was afraid of misplacing your letter, so I slipped it inside the magazine you had left in the car. I must have forgotten it." Whee! That let us three off the hook. "Is there any damage done?" Daddy asked. THE SOMEDAY VACATION "No. None at all." Mother looked like she was going to cry. "We'll just have to postpone our vacation a couple of days, that's all." Two days! I wanted to howl. Tom and Nancy let out a wail. ~ Grandma spoke up. ''Did somebody die, Janet?" Mother smiled weakly. 'No, nothing like that. I have an important meeting day after tomorrow, that's all.". Well! It must be a Relief Society meeting! All of us knew from previous experience that when Mother had a Relief Society meeting to attend, nothing could turn her aside. Grandma wasn't one to be put off so easily. "What is it, Janet? Are you the main speaker at the meeting?" "It is a special meeting for the Relief Society presidencies in the stake."' Mother had herself under control. Calmly she turned to Daddy. "Jim, you've been wishing you could get away from the office long enough to fix the pasture fence and spray the wild parsnips. This will be a perfect time to do it." Turning to Nancy and me, she smiled. "Do you girls remember the cute pink curtains we saw down town the other day? How would you like to get them tomorrow? I'll help you pretty up your room." We had wanted the curtains very much, but right now they didn't seem important. WWJANET." Daddy looked like a little boy as he approached mother. "Is this meeting so important that we have to change the family plans?" "All Church meetings are important, or they wouldn't be 589 AUGUST 1964 called."" Her voice was very even. "Gee, Dad, that's a tough break for you." Tom plunged his hands deep into his pockets. ""To think of that camper going to waste for two whole days in our backyard." His voice quavered. "We have to learn to put first things first, Son. Now come on, all of you. Let's have family prayer and you can scamper off to bed. Sounds as if we've things to do tomorrow." We all kneeled down together and Daddy asked Grandma to pray. Grandma's' prayers' always sounded pretty direct. I thought I knew exactly what she had in mind when she said, "Help us all to see things in their true order of importance." Danpy and mother usually discussed things after we had gone to bed. Most of the time we went right off to sleep, but tonight we turned out our light and forgot to close our door. By being really quiet we could hear almost everything they had to say in the living room. Daddy said, "But, Janet, if we postpone our vacation 2 couple of days we won't have time to go to Yellowstone. My vacation starts tomorrow." Mother sounded too cheerful. She said, "Then we can pick a place closer to home. Yeu'll get something accomplished around here, and we will save on expenses." "Oh, Ellie,' Nancy sobbed. "Did you hear that? Not go to Yellowstone after we have waited all our whole lives!" I tried to comfort her. "Nancy, I think Daddy is trying to help 590 Mother figure out some right way SO we can go." "But, Ellie, Daddy and Mother always agree on everything. They always do everything they're asked to do." "That's why everybody likes them." I said. "I guess they're the best people in the whole world besides Grandma. Nancy, let's go to Grandma's room and talk to her."' We tiptoed down the dark hall. Mother was saying, ""Too many people use their families for an excuse for not taking Church assignments. I've always believed that when we do our duty in the Church our families are blessed, and we can enjoy them that much more." Daddy said, "You are right. The two are inseparable, but still there are times when choices must be made." ''Sakes alive," Grandma whispered. We almost bumped into her sitting in her doorway. "Shhh!" she gathered us to her. '"'"Seems to me we've some figuring to do."' We snuggled against her. "Grandma, what are we going to do?" Nancy sobbed. "Hush, child. [I'm thinking. Your mother wants to go to Yellowstone as much as any of us. She has so much loyalty that she doesn't know what to do with it alle: "TI wish she hadn't found that letter, then she would have been happy until we got back." "Yeah. Remember the time she forgot a meeting and the whole family went swimming. It was a blast!"" Tom whispered. "Tom! Where did you come from?" I asked. "TI wasn't sleepy so I came to Grandma's room. It would take a written excuse from the King of England to keep mother from that meeting." "Not from the King, from the bishop," I said. "Killie, that's it! You young ones scamper off to bed so we'll be ready to leave in the morning." Grandma fairly pushed us toward our rooms. Through the partition wall between our bed and Grandma's reading table, we could hear her dial her phone. We couldn't hear what she said. Minutes later there was a knock on the front door and we heard Daddy say, "Come in, Bishop, what a pleasant surprise to see you tonight." Nancy and I hurried out into the hall. Grandma and Tom were there ahead of us peering through the bannister into the living room. 'Brother Sorenson," the bishop boomed, "the camper in your yard reminded me that you are going fishing. I have some fancy lures I thought you might like to try." He put a little box on. The table. "That's mighty thoughtful of you, Bishop," Daddy said. "I guess we won't be leaving for a couple of days." "Couple of days!"" There was surprise in the bishop's voice. "Understood you were going in the morning." "There's a Relief Society meeting Wednesday," Mother said. "Yes, I know. Haven't you a couple of counselors, Sister Sorenson?" THE SOMEDAY VACATION Mother hesitated. "Why, yes. But this is a presidents' meeting." "So it is. But, remember, there are three people in the presidency. Your counselors will be glad to go alone this time for this planning meeting. We must not make service in the Church a burdensome thing. When it is done right, it is very joyous. All our organizations are_ patterned after a perfect plan. Our - families are part of this plan. It is built around them. Now, go with your family and have a happy vacation." "Thank you so much, Bishop. I will call Sister Hansen tonight." There was the happiness of a burden lifted, in Mother's voice. "My blessings go with you. We love you both for your faithfulness. Goodnight." With a handshake, the bishop was gone. We were hugging each other in the dark. There was a moment's silence, then Mother said softly, "Isn't it strange that he should come by tonight!" "Strange and wonderful," Daddy said. Mother sat down at the telephone and Daddy started for the hall. Swift as rabbits we fled for our rooms and into our beds. Daddy turned the hall lights on and came whooping up the stairs with a bound that shook the rafters. "Look out Yellowstone, here we come!" Bursting into our room, he gave us each a resounding goodnight kiss, and playfully tucked us in, including Grandma. 591 Gertrude Keeler [Address Delivered at the Magazine Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1963] Our specific need, as Relief Society Magazine representatives, is to have facility in expressing pertinent ideas before our groups with appropriate, artistic, and well-chosen posters, charts, placards, or objects to add impressive selling points for the Magazine. Many of us feel a need for a clear, legible handwriting or for skill in the use of a simple and attractive printed alphabet. We may resort to stenciled or ruled lettering, but we may discover our finished product lacks variety and originality. It may appear squared, heavy, and uninteresting. A simple, workable alphabet done in freehand lettering is not difficult to do, is not stiff or formal, and is effective in arousing attention. I can almost hear someone say "I can't draw a straight line."" Any skill requires some practice, so just be patient and keep trying. You will find in the illustration given here, a simple Gothic alphabet of capitals, small letters, and numbers. Also there are variations you might try. Guidelines can be drawn with ruler or yardstick for uniformity in height and proportion. These lines can be erased after the poster is finished. Art gum will not mar inked lettering. A general layout or arrangement of words and ideas for emphasis can be planned carefully to insure interesting and attractive designs. We should avoid a crowded appearance of letters or margins. Readability is important, so lettering should be simple and properly spaced. Room size and distance from speaker to group determine the size of the poster and the letters, spacing, and colors to be chosen. Strong contrasts between background and lettering make wording clear and distinct. Large posters and lettering, of course, are appropriate for large rooms. Pertinent words or thoughts to be emphasized can be painted in contrasting colors. Warm, advancing colors, such as red, yellow, or orange, are good for central ideas. Cool, receding colors are best for backgrounds, such as blue, gray, violet, soft green, black, and white. Plan the wording carefully to avoid trite, overworked, or superfluous words or designs or fussy decorations. Keep the message brief. The eye can read short sentences and single words at a glance. Lengthy, wordy posters are seldom read in their entirety. Choose thought-provoking statements. 592 - AaBbCcDdEeFft GgHhliJjKkKLIMm NnOoPpQgRrss It UuVvWwxrxYy Zz 1234567890 ABCDEFGHI ABCDEFGHISKLMNG ABCDEFGH Consider your poster as an over-all design with balanced units. Place the central ideas in a conspicuous place on the sheet. Pay attention to spelling, grammar, punctuation, and use of capitals. Do not mix capitals and small letters indiscriminately. Avoid extreme styles of lettering until a simple alphabet is mastered, then use your imagination and individuality to make posters distinctive. Simple, amusing cartoons are effective and can be worked out easily. See the April issue of the Instructor (1963) for an interesting article and instructions for drawing faces with a variety of expressions. From these suggestions, we might make animated figures representing Relief Society Magazine covers. Experiment, be creative. It is fun. Try it. AUGUST 1964 POSTER MATERIALS 1. Paper A. Stiff 16-ply paper, size 22" x 28", about 15c per sheet. All colors available. B. Construction paper. Limited colors available. Size 18" x 28", about 10c per sheet. C. White butcher paper in a roll. Lightweight, useful and inexpensive. 2. Pens, erasers, etc. A. Wide felt tip pens. Standard colors, approximately 59c and 79c each. Speed ball pens, all sizes, 15c each. India ink 40c, pen holder' 15c. Art gum eraser good for removing guidelines. Yardstick and foot ruler for guidelines. Wax crayons are good for construction and butcher paper posters. Show-card paint (opaque), all colors. Use with brush. This medium is more difficult to manage. \ A | - ] rl a > |e AY %, v 3 2 xy 2 amMmoo Ww EXERCISE 1 Copy these letters, using guidelines and following numbered strokes as indicated. <lg8 EXERCISE 2 Draw faces in these balloons, using guidelines for eyes, nose, mouth. Guidelines should be erased later, when faces are drawn. EXERCISE 3 Read this message. Reword for a poster. Use concise, effective statements. "The Relief Society Magazine should be in every home. It is helpful for homemakers. It has interesting articles, poetry, and stories to interest the family. Are you a subscriber?"' 594 inside and out AUGUST 1964 Raw Apple Cookies Florence L. Mecham 1 c. Butter or shortening 2 c. Sugar 4 eggs 4 c. Flour 3 c. Grated raw apples (or put them through food grinder) 4 tsp. Soda _ 4 tsp. Cinnamon Cream shortening, then add sugar, and cream until well blended, add unbeaten eggs and mix with mixer on medium speed for about one minute. Add one cup of flour and grated apples. (Don't drain the juice off the apples, add it, too.) Turn oven to 350° to preheat. Add the remaining 3 cups of flour, soda, and spices, then vanilla. Mix well with spoon. Add raisins and walnuts. Drop small teaspoonsful onto well-greased cookie sheet and bake at 350° for 12 to 15 minutes. (For chocolate cookies, add 3 tbsp. Cocoa.) This recipe is also nice for loaf or layer cake. Yield: 8 dozen medium-sized cookies. 596 2 tsp. Allspice 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Chopped raisins 1 c. Walnuts Butter Mints Dorothy Scott 3 c. Sugar 1 sq. Butter (1% Ib.) coloring 1 c. Hot water dash salt peppermint flavor Stir sugar, butter, hot water, and salt together in a pan and bring to a boil. Cover with a lid for 3 minutes. Take off lid and wash down sides of pan with brush dipped in water. Cook without stirring to 248°, on a clear day. Pour on buttered slab and cool enough to handle. Add few drops flavoring and coloring and pull until it loses gloss. Stretch into a rope and cut into pieces. Store in an airtight can. (edly Fills useful too! Shirley Thulin Pillows, pillows, pillows! Some are pretty, some useful, some just for fun. Make these easy pillows and _ start right away to enjoy them. HANDY TRAVEL PILLOW The neatest trick in a long while is this pillow bag made of ribbons. Toss it on your bed as a pillow with pajamas inside, make it as a welcome gift, or as a traveling aid. The pillow bag may be used as a laundry bag for nylons and lingerie, as well as a daytime hiding place for pajamas. It is convenient for traveling, holding clean clothing on the way and light laundry when returning. Materials Needed: To make the pillow bag, you will need 9 yards of grosgrain ribbon 1 inch wide, and 6 yatds of woven edge taffeta ribbon 3 inches wide. Cut the 3-inch ribbon into four strips 14% yards long. Cut the 1-inch ribbon into 6 strips 1144 yards long. Procedure: Starting with the narrower ribbon, top stitch the strips together lengthwise at the edge, alternating widths. Now sew the outside edges together to form a tube. Gather one end tightly together, and attach a six-loop bow made from one of the remaining 114 yard lengths of the l-inch ribbon. At the other end, fold the top narrow ribbon strip in half and _ stitch on the inside, making a hem to hold the remaining 114 yards of grosgrain ribbon which is used as the drawstring (figure 1). SICK-ROOM PILLOWS Pillows can play an important part in the caring for a person who has to remain in bed for awhile. There are several different sick-room pillows. All of them should be made with removable covers, for easy cleaning. Back-rest Pillows. There are two back rest pillows which are handy to put at the patient's back while she sits up. The first one is a pillow arm chair, and should be made of a sturdy fabric such as denim. You could also use a heavy plastic material. Make back first. From a piece of material about 22 inches wide and 26 inches long, cut a rectangle, rounding the top two corners (figure 2). This is the front of the back rest. Now cut a similar rectangle, only make it 31 inches long (figure 3). This is the back of the back-rest. Cut 2 triangles about 26 inches long and about 12 inches wide at the base (figure 4). This forms the sides of the back-rest. The bottom of the back-rest is a piece 22 inches long by 12 inches wide (figure 5). I — 222 > — a ro = 1 7 | /. A } ' ] e "J Cut 1 26" Cut ] 31" (fig. 2) (fig. 3) AX front of back rest al back of back rest 26" _— 2S Cut 1 12" v (fig. 5) | Sa 71ers bottom of back rest 597 side of back rest AUGUST 1964 Sew the two straight sides of the triangle pieces to the 26-inch sides of the front piece. Now join the back of the back-rest to the front and sides by sewing it along the slanting side of the triangle and along the rounded top of the front of the back-rest. Now sew the bottom of the back-rest in place, leaving an opening for the stuffing. Be sure to take deep seams all around. Stuff this pillow very firmly, or use a solid piece of foam rubber. Make arms of back rest. Cut four rectangles of fabric 26 inches long and 7 inches wide. This makes the sides for two arms (figure 6). You will now need 2 pieces 66 inches long and about 8 inches wide. These can be pieced. They form the top, front side, bottom, and back side of the arms. K 26" > i) Cut 4 i (fig. 6) arms of back rest Stitch one arm together by beginning at one corner of the folded rectangle. Begin also at the end of the long strip. Now sew the strip all around the four sides of the rectangle (figure 7). Now sew the two ends of the long piece together. Next, sew the other rectangle on the other edge of the long piece in the same way, leaving an opening for the stuffing. Make the other arm the same way. Now you have two arms, or pillows, which are long and narrow. Join them at a corner edge to the back rest with heavy thread in an overcasting stitch (figure 8). (fig. 7) making the arms for the back rest joining the pieces of the back rest 598 Triangle back rest. This pillow serves somewhat the same purpose as the arm-chair pillow, only it is a simpler one. You will need one rectangle 26 inches long and 25 inches wide, and one rectangle 31 inches long and 25 inches wide. These make the front and back. Cut a triangle the same as for the arm-chair pillow, also a bottom. Stitch this pillow together the same as the back-rest for the armchair pillow. Also stuff this pillow very firmly. Elbow Pillows. It is very comforting to a bed patient to have small soft pillows on which to rest arms or legs. These can be used to vary a person's position while lying down, when the patient is too sick or too weak to hold his arms or legs in various positions by himself. These pillows can be placed under the elbows, knees, or at the back, or under the person's neck. They are simply made of a soft material, such as flannel, or other soft cotton, and are made in various sizes, not over 14 inches square. They must not be stuffed very full. Old nylons or shredded foam rubber make good stuffing for these pillows. Square ones are best, but they can also be round. KNEELING PILLOWS If you are one who still scrubs her floor on hands and knees, or if you kneel in your garden, you will enjoy using this pillow. Use a strong fabric, such as upholstering fabric, or denim. It should be made of a dark-colored cloth. You can buy some squares of foam rubber which make ideal stuffings for these pillows. You can also stuff them with used nylons, or other soft materials. Make your kneeling pillows about 24 inches square. This means, then, that you will need two squares about 25 inches square, allowing for seams. Now you will need a long piece (which can be pieced) 100 inches long and about 5 or 6 inches wide. Sew this pillow together the same as the arm pieces to the arm-chair pillow. FANCY BED AND SOFA PILLOWS Whether square, round, triangle, rectangle, or heart-shaped, fancy pillows always add a certain pleasure to a bedroom or living room. These pillows also make wonderful gifts, either for birthdays, Mother's Day, or for a shower. In choosing the fabric for your fancy pillows, remember that the prettier, the better, so satins, taffetas, velvets, or bright corduroys are good. The colors can be bright or pastel, mixing or matching, and the sizes can vary from tiny ones about 8 inches square to large ones 40 inches square. To make a professional looking pillow, stitch a cording all around your pillow. This is very easy to do and will add greatly to the appearance of the finished product. You will need a heavy string, or you can buy cording at drapery departments. Cut a narrow strip of your fabric about one-half inch wide, or more narrow, for daintier pillows. Using your zipper foot, machine stitch the strip around the string, sewing very close to the string, and leaving the seam on, to be sewed in with the pillow seam (figure 9). Stitch (fig. 9) string making cording When you sew the cording on the pillow, be sure to put the covered string part inside between the two right sides of the pillow back and front, and the raw edges of the seam edge even and horizontal with the edges of the pillow material. Then pin or baste so that you will stitch along the same stitches that you sewed the string inside the material with. Thus, when you turn the pillow to the right side, the cording will be neat all around the edge of the top of the pillow. You can also put a cording all around the bottom edge if you desire (figure 10). Cording gota (fig. 10) SS THE HOME-—INSIDE AND OUT Shiny Satin Pillows. Buy different shades of satin that complement your room, and shades that pick up the hints of color in the wallpaper, or in the drapes, or even in your favorite painting. Make these pillows about 16 inches square. If you want to make the cording around the edge, it will add attractiveness. Sometimes a cording of a contrasting color gives a pleasing accent. You also could sew a fringe of matching or contrasting color in with the seam. Stuff these pillows with discarded nylons, and make them sturdy and plump. If you want an even fancier satin pillow, cut the top square of the pillow larger and then shirr it before sewing it to the back square. Make a Tube Pillow. A very useful and attractive pillow for your couch is the tube pillow. You will want two just alike, one for each end of the sofa. You can make them of corduroy or velvet. Just make the pillow as long as your sofa is deep, so that it will fit along the end, by the arm of the sofa. You will need a piece of material as wide as your sofa is deep, usually about 22 to 26 inches, by 22 inches wide. The pillow should be about 7 inches in diameter. You will need two round pieces 7 inches in diameter for the ends. Stitch the rectangle on to the two round pieces, making a tube with the ends. You can sew a tassel to the center of the round end, if desired (figure 11). (fig. 11) alan age ee tube pillow BABY PILLOWS These pillows are attractive and appropriate to give at a baby ~-hower. They are just for show, since, in most cases, it is better for babies not to sleep on pillows. These pillows may be placed in the corner of the crib or carriage. The favorite shape for a 599 AUGUST 1964 baby pillow is a heart (figure 12) but it could be round or square as well. Make a pillowcase or cover, to slip over the pillow. This should be made of a soft dainty cotton, or batiste. Pure white is prettiest, but it could be a pale pink, or blue, or yellow. It should not be very big. About twelve to sixteen inches square is a good size. Draw tiny flowers, dainty birds, or other designs on the front of the pillowslip. You can trace these designs from magazine pictures, or buy an iron-on transfer pattern. Embroider the design with pastel shades of cotton thread or white. Stitch lace or satin ribbon where desired. The back of the pillow is made of two pieces 7 inches by 12 inches, if the pillow is going to be twelve inches square. Along one of the twelve-inch edges on each piece, make a tiny hem (figure 13). Y id A mm || 12" small hem (fig. 13) wy baby pillow Now, putting right sides together, sew both back pieces to the front piece by lapping over the tiny hemmed edges in the center, making sort of a split down the back (figure 14). J: fig. 14) back of pillow cover Now turn right sides out and stitch two or three tiny white snaps along the split to keep it closed until wash day. Make the back of the pillowslip the same style no matter what shape you are making the pillow. Make the pillow of white cotton, and make it the same shape as the pillowslip, only a little smaller so the cover can go on easily. SAD OR SUNNY PILLOWS This is a-child's just-for-fun pillow, but it also is practical. During the day it holds his pajamas. On one side of this pillow is a bright sunny face and on the other side is a sad face. The child will love to display the face which best suits his mood for the day. After seeing this cheerful pillow, each morning, the sunny face will most always win out. Make a funny face. This pillow can be made of unbleached muslin or other suitable material. Draw a big circle for the pillow and make big comical features, a sad face for the back, and a happy one for the front (figure 15). Make the eyes and the mouth large. You can make the features from suitable colored felt or paint them on with your textile paints; embroider the face with six-strand cotton thread. Place the front and back together, right sides together, and, beginning at the eye, pin along the seam line around to just at the opposite eye. Now take a strip of brown or black felt three inches wide and cut a fringe about two inches deep for the hair (figure 16). Place this with the fringe THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT os = = ~~ XS iS (fig. 15) inside between the front and back of the pillow and continue to pin the seam on around, catching the unfringed edge of the felt. Machine stitch all around, leaving an 8-inch opening at the top of the head to push the child's pajamas into. You can sew snaps along the opening or a zipper. Sad or sunny pillows ee a Ni (fig. 16) If you would like to use yarn in place of the felt fringe, sew 2-inch lengths of yarn along a one-inch strip of cloth and sew the same as with the felt fringe. A Plea for Loveliness Alice Lowe Corbett Oh, bid me not turn loveliness away, Nor rob the heart of time to heed the cries Of paeans caroling above the day— Sweet, haunting melody that never dies. Oh, why would you entreat me not to sing? The voice that beckons me, shall it be still When through the night each bright remembering Bursts with unyielding strength the bonds of will? The spirit soars. Through eager eyes of hope Time's bitter trials loom as kin to earth; Bare, hulking shadows, transient in their scope As frost, that sun-killed, flees the soul's new birth. Beauty is truth, eternal, come what may; Nor life, nor loveliness, shall pass away. 601 So Much for So Little NEON there was unused seed in the cup when I cleaned my parakeet's cage, I began throwing it in the back yard for the birds. When snow arrived, I put a board I could easily sweep off near the door and added extra seed and bread to the diet. When I go out each morning, no birds are in our tree, nor can I see any nearby, yet the door will scarcely be closed before a colorful variety arrives to reward me. No longer is dishwashing a prosaic task. 'Through the window while I work, I watch birds happily pecking, hopping, flying; hear their gay chittering, sense their gratitude for my small thoughtfulness. Often our smallest kindness is manifoldly rewarded. If, in no other way, we are rewarded by a feeling of well-being. Longfellow expressed the idea beautifully in Evangeline: "That which the fountain sends forth returns again to the fountain." Trifles "Trifles make the sum of life' (Charles Dickens). | Woh of us has moments of high beauty we would like to live again. Each of us has moments of bitter, black despair when we must seek the only help that can sustain us. Mostly, though, our days are filled with trifles. Let us add the trifles of a day and find what makes the sum of life. For salutation, take the dew-touched rose you picked this morning to enjoy its fragileness and fragrance, remembering its name is "Peace." For surprise, take the call from a friend who, knowing of a joy that has come to you, just wants to say she shares your happiness. For chuckles, take the words of a precious little boy, just turned six. He haunts the school grounds, a block away from home, so anxious is he for that first great day; yet dashes home to ask excitedly, "Mommy, did you remember to get me in a car pool to ride to school?" For loyalty, take the tiny brown Chihuahua who always looks at you with eyes full of devotion, never seeing faults that human beings do, and yet is ready to forgive your thoughtlessness beyond the "seventy times seven.' For satisfaction, take a look at bottles filled this day with sun-gold peaches that make the taste buds tingle in anticipation of wintertime enjoyment. For refreshment, take the gentle soothing rain that covered everything with freshness after weary weeks of dust and heat. For color, take the rainbow arched across the sky at sunset. For benediction, take your evening call to Mother to hear about her day's events and learn tomorrow's plans. 'To her "goodnight," she adds, "God bless you, dear." Trifles? The total sum is far from commonplace. 602 Your Heart to Understanding anger CHAPTER 7 Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, travel from Winter Quarters to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake in the company of Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena, whose fiance died at Winter Quarters, cannot overcome the great sorrow and bitterness of her loss. When the wagon train arrives in the Valley, Belle and Josiah are married, and, later they leave with a group of saints to settle in San Bernardino, California. Selena and Lon, who has loved her since their first meeting, also join the company but are separated for most ofthe journey after the division of the company. Alfred Quale, who has traveled ail the way to San Bernardino with the Blodgetts and Selena, continues his ardent courtship after the company arrives at San Bernardino. Much difficulty is encountered in securing title to the land, and Lon volunteers to journey to the gold camps to secure money for purchase of the land. 604 Et was a long trip north that Brothers Lyman and Rich and their little group of men had mapped out for themselves. But everywhere they found members of the Church, the response to their request for financial help was gratifying and immediate. The brethren were willing, and even anxious, to ease the needs of the group waiting in San Bernardino Valley. To Lon, saddened though he was by his own personal problem, the trip was a revelation. In the same camp with drunkards and gamblers were to be found converts to the revealed gospel of Christ who gave their last bit of gold dust to aid in the establishment of the new settlement. A request from the two apostles was to them a call from the Lord, himself, and Lon found their faith strengthening his own. Selena had been somewhat puzzled by Lon's apparent disinterest in her when he left the camp, and with Alfred Quale's proposal of marriage the previous evening, she was seriously considering marrying him. "Come on, Selena, away from the wagon for a bit," he had urged. "I have an important question to discuss with you, and it isn't for Belle nor Josiah to hear." Selena had known the time had arrived when Alfred planned to ask her to marry him and wondered just why he had chosen this particular time, when the affairs of the camp were in a rather uncertain state. As they walked out along the trail through the grove, Alfred wasted no time. "We can be married right away, Selena," he had said. "I expect to come into a bit of money, a sort of legacy you might call it," and he had laughed in a strange, mysterious way. He certainly wasn't a man who would be sharing all his dealings in detail with a wife, Selena had thought. But then he would be around, and with the Indians constantly besieging the camp in their never-ending begging for food, this trait in her future husband had become important to Selena. Unlike Lon, who was leaving in the morning for a lengthy trip north, Alfred wouldn't always be jumping in response to what he considered to be a call from authority, letting his own affairs take care of themselves. This YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING problem would always be with her, she knew very well, if she married Lon Holiday. The thoughts passed with lightning speed through her mind, as did also the fact that Alfred hadn't really asked her. He had apparently assumed, in his selfassurance, that she could not possibly refuse him. "We're two alike, Selena. I hate this idea of empire building that seems to possess the others. We can leave here together, Selena, and go north where the empire is already underway. The bishop can perform the ceremony, then, when the leaders get back, we can be on our way." This last puzzled Selena. "If we wait until they return, I should very much like to have Brother Lyman marry us. But I don't understand your wanting to wait until they come." "T just can't walk away without a proper goodbye, my sweet. I shall always owe the two brethren who led us here a great debt." Selena was not sure whether Alfred was serious or whether there was a bit of sarcasm in his words, but his plan held out to her a means of escape, and she had decided to take it. But upon one point she was determined to insist, to wait until the apostles returned to have their marriage performed. "Since you plan to remain until Brother Lyman is back, Alfred, you can have no serious objection to having him marry us," she said.. "All right, if that's the way you want it. I had thought to be ready to leave almost immediately, but I presume that giving in to you on this won't give 605 AUGUST 1964 you the idea that I intend always to give in to your whims. But since that's settled, come here. I've been waiting a long time for this:"' Alfred had pulled her to him and kissed her, long and hard. Selena resisted an impulse to pull away, watching the bright, full moon high above the sycamores. Upon her return to camp Selena decided against telling Belle and Josiah. There was plenty of time to do so before the men returned from the north. She went directly to bed after Alfred returned to his own wagon, her thoughts a whirl of confusion. The gospel meant a good deal to Selena, and she knew what she was planning was fundamentally wrong. But she felt she just couldn't remain in the San Bernardino settlement. WHEN the wagon left Sycamore Grove for San Pedro to meet the south-bound brig Fremont which was carrying the supplies the brethren had sent for the camp, Josiah went along. "T'll be just fine, Josiah," Belle had insisted. "You'll only be gone a few days, and itll give you a chance to see a bit more of California." He met Lon and learned that Brother Lyman had not returned with the others, having stayed north in an effort to raise more money. Brother Rich had gone to Los Angeles with the funds already obtained and would return to the Grove from there. Most of the wagons had returned to the grove before Brother Rich put in an appearance. A gun shot was heard in the camp 606 that night. Josiah remembered it later, wondering just what it was. By noon the next day he knew. A stranger came into camp asking for Alfred Quale. Josiah paused from pulling burrs from the tail of his horse and nodded his head in Alfred's direction. A heated argument followed, and though Josiah couldn't hear it all, he heard enough. That gun shot the night Brother Rich brought the money into camp was probably a signal. Quale had planned with this man and others to waylay Brother Rich out somewhere along the road. Suddenly the man swung at Quale. Josiah watched, but made no effort to intervene. A short few minutes later the man looked at Quale on the ground, blood oozing from Alfred's mouth. "Next time when you say New Road you'd better mean New Road. You knew all the time Rich would come on the Old Road that's seldom traveled. You had ideas of getting it all for yourself. That's why I'm here, right in your camp, to let them know just what you are." The man jumped on his horse and was gone. By morning Alfred Quale had left also and never again was seen in the camp of the saints. One week later Brother Rich performed the marriage of Selena Baldwin and Lon Holiday. BELLE and Josiah offered a prayer of thankfulness, took a good deep breath apiece, and relaxed. But for Lon this was to be the beginning of days and months running into years during which he was to wonder over and over again whether the time would ever come when Selena would ever feel deep love for him. Selena, herself, found a measure of comfort in knowing that she had not left the Church, as Alfred had planned for her to do. There was a great strength which she drew from Lon. But there were to be many, many times, when she would hate herself for her own weakness; for her inability to return the love she received from Lon; for the hurt she caused him in return for his unceasing goodness to her. She recognized all of these, and yet remained powerless to act as she would have done, had she no memory of a burial in the cemetery at Winter Quarters. Negotiations were finally completed, and then came the day when the Mormons moved onto the Rancho del San Bernardino. The originally planned 80,000 acres proved to be in reality 35,509. The purchase price af $70,000 changed also, to $77,500, yet it was a day of great rejoicing when the settlers were at last on their own land. One square mile was set aside as the site for the town. "We will pattern it after the City of the Great Salt Lake," Brother Rich declared, "with a temple block in the center of the city." INow the work began in earnest. Homes must be built, land cleared and plowed, and fences built. The fences intrigued Belle. "T've never seen anything like it, Josiah," she said. 'Live willow posts, driven in the ground, and then they say that the posts will continue growing to form a YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING hedge-like land." It was on an afternoon when they were nearing completion of the first section of the fence, and Josiah had gone for more posts, that Belle felt her first pain. She simply stood her axe by the fence, asked Lon to tell Josiah she had gone to the wagon, and walked calmly toward it. Belle had always handled everything quickly and efficiently, and with as little fuss as pos-- sible. She had no intention of doing otherwise now. She knew she must get Sister Tenny and was glad that it wasn't far. The pains were becoming a bit more bothersome. Josiah returned with the posts, and by the time the fence was finished the baby had arrived. Belle, as _ usual, worked things out well on schedule. Only then, according to Belle's wishes, did Sister Tenny call to Josiah, "Come and see your son," after walking some distance to the end of the section of fence. Josiah's face paled. "Lon! You said " Josiah turned toward his friend. "T said all she told me, Josiah. She never once mentioned that she was leaving to have the baby." Josiah dropped his axe and ran, but at the wagon box he stopped and climbed in carefully, moving to the bed where Belle lay, cheerful and smiling. "Belle! Why didn't you say something? Why didn't you call me?" "Land sakes, Josiah. You'd have become excited as you are now, and you never would have finished the fence today." fence around the AUGUST 1964 Josiah turned to the baby, his face filled with the wonder of him. "My boy! My son!"' he said. "Well, Josiah Blodgett!" said Belle spiritedly. 'You might remember that he belongs to me a little, too." Lon withdrew to go and tell Selena. WHEN the news came that the Indians were planning an attack, _all work on homes ceased. Along with her fears, Selena suffered a great disappointment. Lon had spoken of the home he planned to build. "'What kind of trees are there in the mountains, Lon?" she had asked.. "You name it, Selena, and it's there, cedar, pine, hemlock. There is a sugar-pine with light, almost white wood and straightgrained with no pitch. That is what we will use for the finishing. There'll not be a house in all New England made of better materials." "Oh, Lon!" she cried. "Really? No soft adobe with the dust blowing from the cracks?" "No adobe, Selena," he said, thinking how very beautiful she was when she was excited about something, wondering for the hundredth time whether he could ever bring that light into her eyes. The thought of a beautiful home could do it, but her husband couldn't. Now, in the face of the Indian scare, all efforts were united in one big undertaking, that of building a fort. There were those in the group who had lived in Kentucky, and the fort was patterned after others they had seen there. But it was a big task and all building on individual homes ceased. It was Juan Antonio who brought the news. He was to be the best friend the Mormons had among the Indians. At one time the lands of San Bernardino had belonged to this Cahuilla Chief and his people. Now they lived on a small bit of land in San Gorgonio Canyon. Juan Antonio met with Brother Rich and Brother Hunter, the Indian Agent, telling them of Chief Garra's invitation to attend a convocation of chiefs. "Who is this Garra?"' Brother Rich asked. "He's an independent chief with a band of renegade Indians, and he is the scourge of Southern California. He killed eleven of a group of Californians who sought refuge at Pauma during the Mexican War. Juan Antonio, here, aided the whites in driving Garra off at that time. There have been feelings between the two ever since. Personally, I am surprised that you have been invited, Juan," Hunter said. "Garra has set himself a big job," replied Juan Antonio, his English almost as perfect as his physique. He stood tall in the group of men, his white teeth flashing in contrast to the copper tones of his skin. "He needs all the Indians he can get, and plans to drive out all the Americans from San Diego to Santa Barbara." "The news has traveled fast," said Hunter. "San Diego County has enrolled every able-bodied' man, and Los Angeles County has a large volunteer group on its way now to station themselves at the Chino Ranch." "Yes," agreed Brother Rich. '"'We've been asked to send our own quota to join the men at Chino. Seems wisest to send those without families and the other men could stay here with the women and children and keep on with finishing the fort." General Bean, commander of the militia in Southern Califomia, called at the fort and commended the Mormons for their undertaking. "Your fort is a wise move," he said, watching the beehive of activity. There were over one hundred men busy cutting and splitting the trunks of cottonwood trees, fitting them close together, and setting them three feet down into the ground. The finished wall looked to be about twelve feet high, with the outer walls of the houses making a part of the fence. Others of the settlers were making the ditch from Garner's Springs to bring water through the fort. "You will be well prepared for any move Garra may make," added the General. '""We're trying to keep track of him enough that we can anticipate his plans. Usually we have succeeded, but he was ahead of us at Agua Caliente, and twelve men were lost." "But how can you know?" asked Brother Rich. 'Where do you get any information about his next raid?" "Juan Antonio is our best help," said the general. "His braves have gone right into Garra's camp without being detected, a time or two. He's a wicked Indian, Garra. No respect for any YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING man's life, except perhaps _ his own. We have plenty of evidence against him. All that remains to be done is to take him into custody." "Quite a large order, isn't it, General?" asked Josiah. "From what I've heard there isn't a horse in the state than can stay with his." "It's true, all right," answered the General. "I've lost him on more than one occasion for that. Very reason. Had a good mount under me, too. When he is taken the law won't be the winner nearly as much as the man who gets that white horse." It was soon after the move into the fort and into the small cabin Selena and Lon shared with Belle and Josiah that Brother Rich and Brother Lyman both came to see Lon. Selena knew instantly that something important was in the air. She withdrew to the end of the room where her bed was, dropping the curtain down between herself and the men. It won't matter what they want, Lon will be ready and willing, she thought, half angrily. He thinks the greatest honor in life is to be worthy to suffer for the Church. The voices came easily through to where Selena lay, as Brother Lyman said, "It's not an easy task we're asking, Lon. Juan Antonio brings us word that Garra is set up for his next raid. It is to be against the Weaver Ranch at San Gorgonio."' 'What we had in mind, Lon," continued Brother Rich, "was this. A white man could ride into the Weaver Ranch without Weaver thinking it might be Garra and 60? AUGUST 1964 starting to fire. You are to go with Juan, warn Weaver and his men, and give them time to move out and go into hiding. Juan's braves, those whom he can really trust, will join you then in the ranch house. When Garra arrives and sees the Indian ponies, he will think that Juan and his men have decided to join him and will walk right into the trap." There was a long moment of silence. Selena's heart pounded at the danger Lon would be in. "'We realize there are a number of things that could go wrong, but we have given a great deal of thought to this, and it looks like the best plan in order to have the least fighting and the fewest possible lives lost." Again the brethren fell silent, waiting for Lon to speak. "T don't blame you for being hesitant," Brother Rich said. "You have every right to turn the proposition down, but Juan Antonio has great respect for you, Lon. He asked that we would send you with him. Your wife will object to your going, of course. But this may be the means of saving many, many lives, Brother Holiday." Selena knew exactly the hurt look that would be in Lon's eyes. She wanted to rush past the heavy curtain, throw herself into his arms and beg him not to go. But the habit of keeping a stern grip on any show of emotion was strong upon her. She gripped her arms hard, feeling her nails sink into her own flesh. Lon's voice was even when he = spoke. "There'll be no problem in that quarter, Brother Rich. I shall be ready as soon as the horses are."' (To be concluded) i Stood on a Hilltop Vilate R. McAllister | stood on a hilltop with autumn, And noted how far the eye Could penetrate leafless landscapes, How reachable was the sky. The sun slanted in through windows Once darkened by summer shade, And | marveled at lengthening vistas The shortening days had made. My soul had a new horizon; In height and in breadth it grew, As | stood on a hilltop with autumn, And contemplated the view. FROM THE FIELD General Secretary-T reasurer Hulda Parker Ali material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine tor January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Insiructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES: ee oe:. — Neto Stake (Utah), West Ward Visiting Teachers Achieve a 100 Per Cent Attendance, November 1963 Gladys Wilson, President, Nebo. Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Nebo Stake Relief Society presidency, in their desire to improve the attendance at visiting teacher meetings, urged all the visiting teachers of the stake to attend their meetings. In response to this special emphasis on attendance, the attendance at visiting teacher meetings throughout the stake increased. The West Ward achieved 100 per cent at the November meeting. The Relief Society stake presidency later had a photographer take their picture and frame it to hang in their Relief Society room. Each of the nine wards was presented with a Relief Society souvenir plate to hang in the Relief Society room." 611 AUGUST 1964 Highland Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Ward Relief Society Presidents Conduct Evening as Well as Daytime Relief Societies Left to right: Marriam Gwynn; Birdie Horman; Grace Wilcox; Eva Sipkema; Betty Stohl; Marion S. Porter. Ruby M. Blake, former president, Highland Stake Relief Society, reports: "These six ward presidents have been holding night, in addition to daytime Relief Society, since October 1963, and have interested forty women who would not have been able to have attended daytime sessions, because of employment outside the home. "'A special anniversary social, sponsored by the Highland Stake Relief Society Board, for the sisters who attend the six evening sessions in this stake, was held on March 2, 1964." The new president of Highland Stake Relief Society is Eva A. Sipkema. Lewiston Stake, Moscow (Idaho) Second Ward Relief Society Students Attending the University of Idaho Front row, seated, left to right: Vicki Nuffer; Gail Nystrom; Marjean Moore, Education Counselor; Barbara Workman, President; Linda Galley, Work Director Counselor; Connie Wright, Secretary-Treasurer; Laura Dufiey. Second row, standing, left to right: Jeanette Hoffman; Jeanie Rock; Joan Butler; Marilyn Mecham; Carole Priest; Laureen Anderson; Darlene Steiner; Marva Whiting; Glenda Knighton. Back row, standing, left to right: Carol Watts; Karon Green; Ruth Ann Loveland; Carolyn Woodruff; Dawna Sherwood; Lenore Johnson. Norma M. Kunkel, President, Lewiston Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Moscow Second Ward is a student ward for students, both married and single, who attend the University of Idaho.. Until this year very few of the single sisters were members of Relief Society. Now the single sisters have their own session of Relief Society which meets on Sunday morning. Assistant officers and class leaders have been chosen from their own membership. One member of the ward presidency presides at each meeting. The work meeting lessons are presented at the regular Relief Society meeting on Sunday morning, but once a month the single sisters join with the married sisters for work meeting activities Wednesday evening. "We are pleased with the enthusiasm with which this program has been accepted by the sisters of both sessions and are proud of the achievements being made by this Relief Society." Yuma Stake (Arizona), Yuma Second Ward Honors Literature Class Leader February 1964 Seated, front, left to right: Eva McGovern, Secretary-Treasurer, Yuma Stake Relief Society; Elva B. Fife, First Counselor; Effie Pearl Bass, ward literature class leader; Louise S. Westover, President, Yuma Stake Relief Society; Mary A. Butler, Second Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Elsa M. Blair, President, Yuma Second Ward Relief Society; Cerise Cox, Second Counselor; Mary Elmer, First Counselor; Judy Larson, Socorro Mesa; Delma DeHart; Sybil Barrett; Grace Price; Florence Keil; June Deering; Clara Bass Laurinas, daughter of Pearl Bass; Jackie Sackett, granddaughter of Pearl Bass; Aldyth Quilter; Faye Curtis. At this meeting, Sister Effie Pearl Bass, eighty-six-year-old literature class leader, inspired the sisters in attendance with her impressive literature lessons given without notes. Recognition was also given to her for her outstanding record of devotion to Relief Society. She has taught literature and social science lessons for fifteen years. Now confined to a wheelchair, she lives with her granddaughter, who reads the lessons to her. A wonderful example of courage and devotion, she is truly a master teacher and inspires the other sisters to seek out. The best in literature. 612 &a _ d Diclaae tee. Coca NOTES FROM THE FIELD AUGUST 1964 Cedar West Stake (Utah) Presents Tableau ''Mothers of the World'' December 6, 1963 Bernella Jones, organist, is seated on the organ bench; Cora A. Condie, conductor, stands at the left of the organist; Elva Miles, President, Cedar West Stake Relief Society (wearing dark dress) stands behind the pulpit; Counselor Lucy Lunt (in dark dress) stands behind President Miles; Counselor Iris Corry stands among the Singing Mothers, sixth from the right, on the next to the back row. Sister Miles reports: "This was a very outstanding event. The program was in two parts and the first part consisted of choruses, vocal solos, and a string ensemble; the second part presented tableaux depicting mothers of different lands accompanied by lullabies of those lands. The program was very well received by a large audience. "This group of Singing Mothers sings frequently in our stake conferences." Southern Far East Mission Relief Society Singing Mothers At Luzon District Conference (Phillippines) March 1, 1964 Virginia Quealy, Supervisor, Southern Far East Mission, reports: "This was the first appearance of the Singing Mothers in the Philippines. The chorister was Carol Smithen, and the pianist Mary Ellen Edmunds. Branches represented were Manila, Clark, San Juan, Cavite, and San Fernando. "We practiced about three months for this, beginning with sisters who could not even read music, let alone pick out the parts. It was inspiring to observe them trying to learn the words and music so diligently. We had one 'grand' practice before the conference. About forty-eight sisters joined us. It was thrilling—white blouses, dark skirts, and small corsages made of red satin ribbon." Sevier Stake (Utah) Annual Holiday Fair and Guest Day November 16, 1963 Madge G. Parks, President, Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our annual holiday fair and guest day proved to be a great success from all standpoints. This occasion has created a great deal of interest in our stake and has been the means of gaining a number of new members for Relief Society. An invitation to 'Be Our Guest' was sent to every sister in our stake, along with a program for the day. The local newspaper and radio gave us help in advertising. The response was wonderful — nearly 600 persons attended throughout the afternoon, including many of our non-Latter-day Saint sisters. "All of our eleven wards and two branches participated in this affair, and it was one of the highlights of the year. Each ward prepared a display and gave demonstrations on outstanding articles, as well as demonstrations on foods and their preparation, with tastes for everyone. Our Lamanite sisters had a display of fine handiwork and articles they had made. The displays were many and varied, and the only word to describe them is 'fabulous.' There were fortyfour banquet tables filled with choice items, all in keeping with Relief Society standards. The stake board members did an outstanding job on the displays pertaining to their departments. Each one depicted beautifully the lessons, Magazine, music, record keeping, and work meeting. Our stake work meeting leader and counselor, Myrtle Seegmiller and Leola Pearson, had a lovely display of work meeting items and Christmas decorations. All of our stake board members stood by and were prepared to answer any questions or explain any and all phases of the Relief Society program. Light refreshments were served to everyone. 614 615 NOTES FROM THE FIELD AUGUST 1964 Southwest Indian Mission, Chinle Branch (Arizona) Relief Society Members Who Sponsored a Rummage and Bake Sale Front row, left to right: Louise Yazzi; Louise Brown; Yanabah Begay; Sister Tosie; Anne Dick. Back row, left to right: Bonnie Vandiviere, President, Chinle Branch Relief Society; Pauline Dawes; Colleen Hilquist; Margaret Flake; Agnes Deadman; Hazel Lewis, missionary; Susie Little, missionary; Selina Begay. Elizabeth M. Baird, President, Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society, reports: "The group in the picture is smaller than usual. It has been difficult to get all of the sisters of this branch together for a picture, usually at least twenty are in attendance. I quote from a letter from the president of the branch: 'We had our clothes washed and ironed, and they were all good clothes. We had a large rack to hang all of our nicest ones on. It looked like a small store, with the clothing and delicious baked goods. The Lord really blessed us, and it brought us together in a feeling of love for each other and the gospel.' " June Young (not in the picture) is the president of the Chinle District Relief Society. North Box Elder Stake (Utah), Outstanding Attendance at Corinne Second Ward Literature Meeting, April 1963 Nina H. Beecher, President, North Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Corinne Second Ward Relief Society, under the direction of President Grace Jeppesen and her counselors Lila Wright and Lorna Reader, is busy compiling information and collecting pictures for a Relief Society History Book. It will contain historical accounts, as well as photographs depicting the progress of the organization. "The above picture will add to the interest of the book, as it shows an outstanding attendance at the April 1963 literature meeting. There were forty-one out of fifty enrolled members present, and twenty-seven children enjoyed activities in the nursery. Present when the picture was taken were all members of the immediate past presidency, the present presidency, and all class leaders. Also present was Sister Ellen Mangum, age eighty-four, the eldest Relief Society member in the ward." Northern Far East Mission, lwakuni (Japan) Relief Society Bazaar October 27, 1963 Left to right: Pauline Johnson, President; Velma J. Bell, First Counselor; Janet Koford, Second Counselor; Zella Cleary, work meeting leader. Seated: Lynn M. Champagne, Secretary. Former members Wendy Olmstead and Marjorie Perry also contributed to the success of this bazaar. Peggy H. Andersen, Relief Society Supervisor, Northern Far East Mission, reports: "This group of women is representative of many small groups of service-connected Relief Societies operating throughout the Northern Far East Mission. Even though their numbers are small, sometimes three to seven or eight women, still they carry out the full program of Relief Society each year. These groups are made up of wives of American servicemen serving in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines in the Far East. They are a great strength to the mission and have been instruments by which many converts have been baptized into the Church in this mission. The example of the faithful serviceman and his family does more than any other thing to convince people of the divinity of the Church. Some of these small groups of women are located in very isolated areas of Japan, and their association together through the program of Relief Society is a tremendous strength to each of them. They are a fine example to the Japanese Relief Societies also and are assisting in the program among the local people." 616 617 NOTES FROM THE FIELD ree Wes 5) \ ww) THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants ~ Lesson 58—The Vision (continued) Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 76:50-119) Objective: For First Meeting, November 1964 To study God's plan for the salvation of all his children who can be saved. INTRODUCTION Jesus Christ was crucified to save the world from sin. (D&C 76:40-42.) By this redemptive act he made it possible for every man to be resurrected from the grave. (Ibid., 88:27-32.) In addition to universal salvation — the resurrection — the atonement of Christ provides a spiritual life for the individual who will be obedient to the fulness of the gospel. This spiritual life brings the obedient back into the presence of God from which they were excluded by sin after arriving at the years of accountability. ([bid., 29:41; John 5:24; 11:25- 26; D&C 68:25-27.) MANY MA AIC TLOAIC All who have lived, do live, or ever will live upon this earth are the begotten sons and daughters of God. God's solicitude for them is boundless. Through his merciful plan provision is made for the salvation of all men, ex- 618 cept the sons of perdition. Contrasted with the erroneous notion that belief in Christ without works is sufficient for a place with God, the plan just mentioned appeals to us as one of justice and mercy. This is more evident when we realize that those who have not had the opportunity to accept Christ may do so in the spirit world. To say, however, that all men are to be saved does not mean that all will receive equal status with God. Considering the differences that exist in knowledge, faith, and righteousness, it would be unjust to save everyone on the same level. In declaring this doctrine, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: My text is on the resurrection of the dead, which you will find in the 14th chapter of John [Verses 1-2] — "In my Father's house are many mansions." It should be — "In my Father's kingdom are many kingdoms," in order that ye may be heirs of God and joint-heirs with me. I do not believe the Methodist doctrine of sending honest men and noble-minded men to hell, along with the murderer and the adulterer. But I have an order of things to save the poor fellows at any rate, and get them saved; for I will send: men to preach to them in prison and save them if I can. There are mansions for those who obey a celestial law, and there are other mansions for those who come short of the law, every man in his own order. There is baptism, etc., for those to exercise who are alive, and baptism for the dead who die without the knowledge of the Gospel (DHC VIl:365). We have just learned that Jesus taught that there are gradations in "heaven." Paul also received a vision of the kingdoms of glory for resurrected man. (I Cor. 15:40-41.) The principle of reward and punishment is given in this New Testament scripture: "He which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly; and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully" (II Cor. 9:6). CELESTIAL KINGDOM In verses 50 through 53 of Section 76, the Lord reveals those who are eligible to receive the highest heaven mentioned in the scriptures. In the words of Joseph Smith, entrance into the celestial kingdom is possible for those who follow these instructions: 1 will proceed to tell you what the Lord requires of all people, high and low, rich and poor, male and female, ministers and people, professors of religion and non-professors, in order that they may enjoy the Holy Spirit of God to a fulness and escape the judgments of God, which are almost ready to burst upon the nations of the earth. Repent of all your sins, and be baptized in water for the remission of them, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Holy Ghost, and receive the ordinance of the laying on of the hands of him who is ordained and sealed unto this power, that ye may receive the Holy Spirit of God; and this is according to the Holy Scriptures, and the Book of Mormon; and the only way that man can enter into the celestial kingdom. These are the requirements of the new covenant, or first principles of the Gospel of Christ; then ''Add to your faith, virtue; and to virtue, knowledge; and to knowledge, temperance; and to temperance, patience; and to patience, godliness; and to godliness, brotherly kindness; and_ to brotherly kindness, charity [or love]; - for if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful, in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ" (DHC 1:314-315. See also II Peter 1:5-8). CELESTIAL EXALTATION. As there are three kingdoms of glory, celestial, terrestrial, and telestial, so there are many gradations or levels of reward within these great heavens. In the celestial kingdom there are three heavens or degrees. The Lord has told us that in order for us to receive the highest of these, we must meet all of the requirements of the gospel. In the celestial glory there are three heavens or degrees; And in order to obtain the highest, a man must enter into this order of the priesthood [meaning the new and everlasting covenant of marriage]; And if he does not, he cannot obtain it. He may enter into the other, but that is the end of his kingdom; he cannot have an increase (D&C 131: 1-4). The highest of these three degrees in the celestial kingdom is attained by those who receive exaltation. (Ibid., 182:21-24.) In addition to obedience to the first principles of the gospel, noted 619 AUGUST 1964 above in the scriptures and the Prophet's statement, one must enter into temple marriage (the new and everlasting covenant of marriage), remain just and true, and receive the seal of the Holy Ghost. (Jbid., 132:19.) This truth mentioned by Paul (I Cor. 11:11) emphasizes the necessity that every Latter-day Saint understand the importance of temple marriage, the sealing of husband and wife by the authority of the Holy Priesthood. Without this ordinance, though one is married by the civil law, there is no exaltation. 2D RTliIicimMmc Al? Section 76 continues the description of the celestial kingdom by indicating that there will be those in that glory who belong to the Church of the Firstborn. Keeping in mind that this refers to man's condition after the resurrection and not in this life, we learn that all things are given to the obedient by the Father. They become priests and kings, having received a fulness of the Father's glory as the Church of the Firstborn. To enter into the preparations for this glory the Melchizedek Priesthood is necessary for the male and the blessings of that Priesthood are received by his faithful wife in the temple marriage. When "all things" are bestowed upon them, they become gods, even the sons of God, joint-heirs with Christ. (D&C 76:54-61; 84:35-38; Romans 8:16-17.) EXALTATION —— THE GOAt Latter-day Saints are prone to refer to the attainment of the celestial kingdom as the highest 620 objective available in the gospel plan. From the foregoing discussion of eternal life, it should be evident that entrance in the celestial kingdom will not necessarily bring a fulness of powers and glory. If, in using the term celestial glory or kingdom, is meant exaltation in that kingdom, then that is the highest objective. On the other hand, if one ignores that there are different degrees in the celestial kingdom and the highest "heaven" is possible only by obedience to all of the commandments, including temple marriage and its covenants, the expression is misleading. CELESTIAL GLORY All who receive the celestial kingdom receive celestial glory for they are in the presence of God and Christ forever. (D&C 76:62.) These are they who shall come with the Christ at his coming and will receive the first resurrection. Their bodies are celestial, like God's body, compared with the sun in_ brightness. (Verses 63-70.) Exaltation in that kingdom is given to all who will meet the requirements — keeping all the commandments. Position in the Church does not necessarily qualify one for this great blessing. President George Albert Smith expressed it this way: One of the beautiful things to me in the Gospel of Jesus Christ is that it brings us all to a common level. It is not necessary for a man to be a president of a stake, or a member of the Quorum of the Twelve, in order to attain a high place in the celestial kingdom. The humblest member of the Church, if he keeps the commandments of God, will obtain an exaltation just as much as any other man in the celestial kingdom. The beauty of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is that it makes us all equal in as far as we keep the commandments of the Lord. In as far as we observe to keep the laws of the Church we have equal opportunities for exaltation. As we develop faith and righteousness our light is made to shine as a guide and blessing to those with whom we mingle (Conference Report, October 1933, page 25). OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL One of the most informative revelations received by _ the Prophet Joseph Smith was given by vision in the Kirtland Temple on January 21, 1836. The Prophet said that he saw the blazing throne of God in the celestial kingdom which was like circling flames of fire. There he saw some who had not received an opportunity to receive the gospel in this life, and the explanation of their being in that kingdom. A "voice" declared that all who died without an opportunity to know the gospel and accept it while on the earth will have the privilege in the spirit world. If they would have received the gospel while on the earth, given the opportunity, they will be heirs of the celestial kingdom upon acceptance of it in the spirit world. The great truth is proclaimed that the Lord "will judge all men according to their works, according to the desire of their hearts" (DHC II:380-381). ACCORDING TO WORKS To every man there is given opportunity. But all men will not abide the full law that will bring the greatest blessing. Some will have lost the opportunity for LESSON DEPARTMENT exaltation and the celestial kingdoin because they did not abide the law to which they were responsible in mortality. The merciful plan of the Father is described by Joseph Smith as follows: But while one portion of the human race is judging and condemning the other without mercy, the Great Parent of the universe looks upon the whole of the human family with a fatherly care and paternal regard; He views them as His offspring, and without any of those contracted feelings that influence the children of men, causes "His sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust." He holds the reins of judgment in His hands; He is a wise Lawgiver, and will judge all men, not according to the narrow, contracted notions of men, but, "according to the deeds done in the body whether they be good or evil," or whether these deeds were done in England, America, Spain, Turkey, or India. He will judge them, "not according to what they have not, but according to what they have," those who have lived without law, will be judged without law, and those who have a law, will be judged by that law. We need not doubt the wisdom and intelligence of the Great Jehovah; He will award judgment or mercy to all nations according to their several deserts, their means of obtaining intelligence, the laws by which they are governed, the facilities afforded them of obtaining correct information, and His inscrutable designs in relation to the human family; and when the designs of God shall be made manifest, and the curtain of futurity be withdrawn, we shall all of us eventually have to confess that the Judge of all the earth has done right (DHC IV:595-596). SALVATION OF CHILDREN In the same vision in the Kirtland Temple revealing an opportunity for everyone to hear the gospel either in this life or in the 621 AUGUST 1964 spirit world, the "voice" declared the following to Joseph Smith: And I also beheld that all children who die before they arrive at the years of accountability, are saved in the celestial kingdom of heaven (DHC IT:381). This truth is in harmony with and gives meaning to verse 67 of Section 76, wherein it is given that those in the celestial kingdom will constitute "an innumerable company of angels." TERRESTRIAL KINGDOM The next vision seen by Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon was that of the terrestrial kingdom. Differing from the celestial kingdom as the moon differs in glory from the sun, those of this kingdom will also consist of an innumerable host. (D&C 76:91-92, 96-98, 71.) Those of the terrestrial kingdom are described as 'honorable men of the earth, who were blinded by the craftiness of men." They lived the law to which they were responsible on the earth, but they did not receive the fulness on the earth nor in the spirit world. In this kingdom there will also be those who "died without the law." (Jbid., 76: 72-75.) In addition to those mentioned, there will be some Latter-day Saints who were honorable in their lives, but who were indifferent to the fulness of the truth. Expressed in the language of the revelation, they were "'not valiant in the testimony of Jesus; wherefore, they obtuin not the crown over the kingdom of our God" ([bid., 76:79). It was their privilege to obtain that crown, but the spirit of apathy toward the work 622 of the Lord gained ascendancy in their lives. Terrestrial beings will have the presence of Jesus Christ. (D&C 76:77.) In the absence of specific scriptural statement it is reasonable to believe that there are degrees within the terrestrial and also that advancement within that kingdom is possible. (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Articles of Faith, page 409.) TELESTIAL KINGDOM In the lowest of the three degrees of glory — the telestial there will be innumerable gradations or degrees. (D&C 76: 98; I Cor. 15:41.) In this kingdom will be assigned those who are described as the wicked of the earth — liars, sorcerers, adulterers. They are those who reject the gospel and the testimony of Jesus and the prophets. They are the followers of manmade systems, who persist in their abominable ways. (D&C 76:99-106, 81-85.) It is these who will come from their graves in the first part of the second or general resurrection at the end of the millennium. Although coming under this condemnation, they have been cleansed in the spirit world and are prepared to enter a glory "which surpasseth all understanding." (Verse 89.) In their kingdom they will receive the Holy Spirit through the ministry of terrestrial beings, and of angels appointed to minister in the telestial world. (Verses 86, 88.) The number who will inherit this glory will be as numerous as the sand upon the seashore. (Verse 109.) The specific ordinances, if there be such, to enter into the telestial and terrestrial kingdoms have not been revealed. The initiatory ordinances of water baptism and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, and other ordinances known to the Latter-day Saint, are for the celestial kingdom only. GREATNESS OF THE GOSPEL An example of the magnanimity of the gospel is given in the case of the terrestrial beings, some of whom are honorable "Christians" who believe that the greatest reward of obedience is to be in the presence of Jesus Christ. If honorable, they will receive their present desire because they live only that law which will give them the terrestrial glory. On the other hand, those enlightened '"Christians" who did not live their law, will find themselves in the telestial kingdom, yet the '"unenlightened" heathens living their law will be given the chance to accept the terrestrial law; if they do, then their place of future abode will be the terrestrial kingdom. When reference is made to these groups of terrestrials and telestials, it should be remembered that the Lord will give to all men an opportunity to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. The LESSON DEPARTMENT chance for celestial glory is open to all. (D&C 1:2; 128:5.) CONCLUSION It is very gratifying to us who desire the salvation of mankind, and whose work it is to labor for their uplifting, who have been specially called of God and appointed to work under the Captain of our salvation for the redemption of the whole human race, to know by the revelations of God that the time will come, in some future state of existence if not in this, when every soul that can be redeemed will be brought out of darkness and sorrow, and hell, and death, and be placed where they can enjoy existence, to glorify God and obey His commandments.... The laws of God are eternal; they are forever and ever; they are inflexible; and it is only by obedience to law that exaltation can be secured. In this condition we are learning to be obedient to law — such law as God has revealed; also to the wholesome rules and regulations that are established in the governments under which we may live (Penrose, Charles W.: Conference Report, April 1901, pp. 42-43.) 43). QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Discuss the doctrine that men will receive different rewards. 2. Indicate some of the things necessary to obtain celestial glory, to receive exaltation in the _ celestial kingdom. 3. Discuss the importance of temple marriage. | 4. Is it necessary that one hold a high office in the Church to be exalted in the next life? 5. Who will inherit the terrestrial kingdom? The telestial kingdom? Note to Class Leaders: For visual aid kits for the theology and the literature lessons see page 587 of this issue. 623 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 58 — ''And He Who Receiveth All Things With Thankfulness Shall Be Made Glorious' (D&C 78:19). For First Meeting, November 1964 Objective: To emphasize the fact that thankfulness enlarges and glorifies the personality and radiates the spirit of friendliness. THe blessings associated with thankfulness are among _ those available to all of us. A thankful heart is a gracious, joyous heart. Thankfulness is a frame of mind. It is a point of view — an attitude which enriches and gladdens those who possess it and warms the hearts of those with whom it comes into contact. The Lord has promised that those who receive all things with thankfulness "shall be made glorious" and shall receive blessings an hundred fold. This is undoubtedly due to the marvelous effect that an attitude of thankfulness has upon the individual who possesses it. It is a truism that as we look for blessings they seem to magnify before our eyes and we discover additional reasons to be grateful. The attitude of thankfulness radiates friendliness, cheerfulness, love, humility, meekness, and mercy. These are some of the character attributes which the Savior found so desirable when he said those possessed 624 of them should be bounteously blessed and should inherit the earth. The Greek philosopher Plutarch wrote that, "the worship most acceptable to God, comes from a thankful and _ cheerful heart' (Edwards, Useful Quotations, page 641). Isaak Walton suggested that, ""God has two dwellings; one in heaven, and the other in a meek and thankful heart" (Ibid., p. 641). A thankful heart is a priceless possession but one which is readily within the reach of all of us. Its possession is not dependent upon season, age, learning or wealth. Like any other good habit the attitude of thankfulness can be cultivated through regular and consistent practice. If we will consistently express our gratitude on every possible occasion we will find that an attitude of thankfulness will develop naturally. The simple practice of saying, "thank you" and meaning it, costs so little in time and effort and means so much to those to whom it is expressed. If we want the rich blessings that come with thankfulness, we should develop the habit of expressing gratitude to our loved ones in the home, to our friends and associates, as well as to our Father in heaven for his many blessings to us. Henry Ward Beecher portrayed the influence and contagion of thankfulness with this illustration: "If one should give me a dish of sand and tell me there were particles of iron in it, I might look for them with my eyes, and search for them with my clumsy fingers, and be unable to detect them; but let me take a magnet and sweep through it, and how it would draw to itself the almost invisible particles by the mere power of attraction. — The unthankful heart, like my finger in the sand, discovers no mercies; but let the thankful heart sweep the day, and as the magnet finds the iron, so it will find, in every hour, some heavenly blessings" (as quoted by PresiLESSON DEPARTMENT dent Hugh B. Brown in Continuing the Quest, page 450). If we would be worthy of our Father in heaven's love, an essential aspect of our thankfulness must be our expression of gratitude to him for his countless blessings. All that we have — our lives, our talents, our health, the material things we enjoy, our assurance of salvation and our hope for exaltation — are his gracious gifts to us. The prophet Alma, in The Book of Mormon, admonished, "And now I would that ye should be humble... Asking for whatsoever things ye stand in need, both spiritual and temporal; always returning thanks unto God for whatsoever things ye do receive' (Alma 7:23). Thankfulness to our Father in heaven for his many blessings lays the foundation for the development of a thankful heart in all our relationships with one another. This is the key to abundant and glorious living. Lonely Catherine B. Bowles Just a touch of human kindness To know that someone is near Would fill the heart with sunshine That brings love and hope and cheer. Not worldly goods are needed But a love that makes one glad, A little bit of something That will fill the heart when sad. 625 WORK MEETING Molding a Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine Discussion 2: Health and Its Influence on Happiness (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) For Second Meeting, November 1964 Objective: To examine common-sense ways of maintaining HEALTH and happiness are often mentioned in the same breath. And well they might be, for while it is possible to have happiness without good health, more often than not happiness seems to hinge upon the observance of good health habits — practices within daily living that enhance feelings of buoyant good health, abounding energy, and zestful living. President Belle S. Spafford in remarks at the presidents session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1963, counseled the mothers of the Church to take good care of themselves physically in order that they may remain well and strong to care for their families. She appealed to the sisters to get sufficient sleep and rest, to eat properly, and to refrain from pushing themselves beyond their physical endurance. To promote good health within 626 good within the family. The family and the general feeling of well-being that goes with it, we need to observe a few rules with persistence and determination. Family members who fail to do so may suffer from malnutrition, exhaustion, and fatigue, and may be so irritable, cross, and unreasonable as to offer serious threats to family happiness. Four rules of health that go a long way towards keeping a family in a state of general good health and, consequently, in a state of happiness are as follows: 1. Proper Food and Correct Eating Habits To provide the wide variety of proper foods needed for the nourishment of the family, menus should be planned regularly around the Basic Four Foods. The following should be included in each day's menu: A. DAIRY FOODS — milk, cheese, ice cream, and other milk-made foods can supply part of the milk. B. MEAT GROUP — meats, fish, poultry, eggs, or cheese — with dry beans, peas, and nuts as alternates. C. VEGETABLES AND FRUITS — include dark green or yellow vegetables; citrus fruit or tomatoes. D. BREADS AND CEREALS — enriched or whole-grain. Added milk improves nutritional values. A wide variety of these foods eaten in reasonable and moderate amounts is the best possible protection against nutritional disease. Meals should be eaten at regular hours each day. The body is set for sustenance at certain times, and when there is a break in that routine, tempers become short, patience is exhausted, and family equilibrium is upset. It would be well to serve family members only enough food to maintain proper weight for height. Overeating is a common failing. Stress the eating of fruits and vegetables and avoid too frequently serving rich desserts and excess sugars and starches. Provide snacks of vegetable sticks, fruit, fruit drinks, and milk, cheese, deviled eggs, etc., rather than candy, cookies, and cake. Serve an adequate breakfast and encourage all family members to eat it. Breakfast should include 4% to % of the total calorie needs for the day. Tests have proved that children and adults, alike, are more compatible, less accident prone, better students and workers, and have quicker reactions if they have eaten an adequate breakfast. Special effort should be made to have family members eat together at a well-laid table and in an atmosphere of peace and harmony. LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. Regular Exercise and Fresh Air Daily exercise and fresh air are important to good health and a feeling of happiness. Walking to work, to church, to market, to school, on errands, etc. Provides opportunity for exercise. Exercise develops muscles and improves the general tone of the body. Games, walks, outdoor chores, such as gardening and mowing the lawn are all good forms of exercise. 3. Adequate Rest This should include two things — sufficient sleep at night and adequate rest during the day from tensions and drive. Both are important to good health and to a general feeling of peace and happiness within oneself. Adequate sleep — depending upon the individual — is necessary for all adults, and an hour or two more is needed by young people. Authorities say that for optimum health the regularity of sleep should not be broken too often. Mothers often think they are too busy to take an afternoon rest, and yet the more one has to do, the greater the need to plan for regular rests in order to accomplish the work. 4. Regular Medical and Dental Care Physical defects in family members should be_ corrected, then regular check-up visits made. Departing from these four basic rules of healthfal living can bring on unhappy and even tragic practices. Latter-day Saint parents must be vigilant against the formation of any addictions in themselves and in their children, and they must be alert to signs 627 AUGUST 1964 pointing toward them. Even. In times of stress, it is usually best to depend upon our own good health and good health habits to carry us through. We should use medication only on the advice of a physician and withdraw from its use at the earliest possible time. Whenever our bodies become fatigued and weary, we should give them rest rather than stimulants. We as Latter-day Saints, should respect our bodies — giving them proper food at proper intervals, getting sufficient rest and sleep, exercising and getting fresh air, and visiting the doctor and dentist at regular intervals for check-ups. LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 2 — Literature ''Tasted... Swallowed... Digested "' For Third Meeting, November 1964 Objective: To experience the variety and depth of literary insight. From experience we have learned that as various foods come in contact with the taste buds on the tongue we are able to detect the bitter from the sweet, those that are pleasing to the taste, and those that are distasteful, those that, when swallowed and digested, will produce nourishment and strength to our bodies versus those that will make us ill. We have learned, too, that because of the many integral parts of the body we need a wide range of variety in 628 foods to meet our various needs for nourishment. In a like manner, as we subject ourselves to variety in literature, we develop specific tastes (likes and dislikes). From the thoughts that are kindled and stimulated in our minds as we swallow and digest that which we read, we develop the ability to appreciate that which is beautiful, appropriate, and educational from that which is sensual and demoralizing. As we need variety in our food to sustain and nourish our bodies, so also do we need variety in literature to feed, stimulate, and sustain our minds to meet our many intricate needs for our direction physically, emotionally, socially, morally, and spiritually. FOUR APPROACHES TO LITERATURE In our first lesson we discussed the four possible critical approaches to literature. In the first one — the Platonic method — we look for "message" or meaning, using standards which we bring out of our own study and experience. The second — the Aristotelian — stresses the form or structure of a work itself. In the Longinian, or third approach, the author and _ his background are studied for additional insight, and in_ the fourth, or Horatian, we try to find out what reaction this work has called forth from intelligent readers over the years. FORM AND STRUCTURE — ARISTOTELIAN APPROACH The six examples of literary art which are presented as a supplement to this section of our text — "Of Studies" by Sir Francis Bacon,' "What Makes a Great Book," by Mortimer Adler, "Ode on a Grecian Urn," by John Keats, "The Celestial Omnibus," by E. M. Forster, "Poetry," by Marianne Moore, and "Flower in the Crannied Wall," by Alfred Lord Tennyson — have in common literary excellence, but little else. They are almost disconcerting in their variety. Reading and reacting to them can be emotionally exhausting and should be _intellectually stimulating. In the first place, note how different effective writing styles can be. The balance and cadence of Bacon, "to THE LESSON DEPARTMENT spend too much time in studies is sloth; to use them too much for ornament is affectation," is echoed by the sonorous parallel structure of Sir Thomas Browne in "The Celestial Omnibus': "though it had solaced the vigils of Charlemange, or measured the slumbers of Laura."" One suddenly remembers that these men lived and wrote in the day that the King James version of the Bible was translated. How perfectly appropriate this majestic - style is to convey profound truth. Contrast this with the fluid loveliness of the sounds in Keats' "Ode on a Grecian Urn": "What leaf-fring'd legend haunts about thy shape." What a different age and attitude they suggest. The beauty which is identical with truth for Keats is confessedly of the earth, but all that the physical universe can convey is suggested here. Once more, contrast Marianne Moore's ''Poetry" with either or both of the above selections. Gone is the grandeur of Browne and the ardor of Keats. Instead, we have a series of prosy particulars which are as unornamented as a contemporary skyscraper. There's a_get-thingsdone flavor to Miss Moore's poem that is distinctively modern. Note the shape of each stanza: I, too, dislike it: there are things that are important beyond all this fiddle. Reading it, however, with a perfect contempt for it, one discovers in it after all, a place for the genuine. Hands that can grasp, eyes that can dilate, hair that can rise if it must, these things are important not because a high-sounding interpretation can be put upon them but because they are. From the long opening lines we rapidly pare away at a thought 629 AUGUST 1964 until its kernel is exposed; then we go on without pause to the next large generalization which begins the second stanza, and this is dissected in turn. How scientific! How typical of the strength and weaknesses of our present culture. The foregoing comments on structure, sound, and shape use what is essentially the second critical method discussed in our first lesson. In this approach the form of a work is stressed, and the relationship of part to part within the work becomes extremely important. It should be noted, however, that the form tells us something about the time in 'which the material was written, and in doing so adds an overtone of the third method, in which the author and his background are emphasized. =) 9 ee ey ee m~ el aE a Wot at a. In Mortimer Adler's famous short essay he suggests that a book's "greatness" is not so much conferred as revealed by time, but we cannot be sure of the excellence of a work until "men everywhere" turn to it again and again. This is as clear a presentation of the Horatian approach, or the fourth critical method discussed earlier, as we could ask for. Yet, since a statement of critical principles is never a substitute for critical practice, it will be useful to consider the selections in this section in the light of their continuing appeal. Chronologically, Sir Francis Bacon's "Of Studies" is first. Three hundred years of discussion have not dimmed the sharpness of insight and nicety of distinction which characterize 630 this short essay. The diction may sound a bit old-fashioned on the tongue, but the proverbial wisdom expressed here is not outmoded. It has the convincing ring of distilled experience. John Keats' "Ode on a Grecian Urn" is only about half as old, but the problem to be considered here has less to do with age than with what the English critic Matthew Arnold calls the "historical fallacy." How much importance shall we give to a work as an expression of its time? The values of the Romantic period in English literary history are still being debated. To what extent is the fame of this poem dependent on our view of the attitudes expressed in it, or can this work transcend its time and stand on the ageless pedestal of perfectly executed art? As indicated in the discussion in our text, '"Flower in the Crannied Wall' reflects a point of view and a literary technique that are clearly in question in the minds of some well-trained critics, yet are not without vehement defenders. Adler's "What Makes a Great Book" is forceful statement, but it may not distinguish itself memorably when viewed in the perspective of many similar assertions over the last few hundred years. "The Celestial Omnibus" and "Poetry" are still too new to be evaluated in terms of continuing effect. The extent to which Miss Moore's poem has been anthologized since its first printing, however, suggests that many people find this among the most persuasive of all poems about poetry. Our grandchildren will be able to estimate its living power. THE MULTIPLE WAY TO MEANING Perhaps we shall never get at the total meaning of a poem, essay, or short story unless we bring to bear as many critical approaches as possible, for what a work says is its complete impact. But some material lends itself to excerpting better than others. Bacon's "Of Studies," for instance, has unity and coherence, yet almost any line is meaningful out of context. We can all 'taste' the idea that "crafty men condemn studies, simple men admire them, and wise men use them." Such an assertion states its meaning, and we examine it in terms of its logic, its literal sense. Similarly, the striking comment by Miss Moore that poetry provides 'Imaginary gardens with real toads in them" can be lifted from its source effectively, but we can hardly take it literally. There is a quality to Miss Moore's line which is not in Bacon's statement. Part of the meaning of the poetic line is metaphorical, that is, one thing is being presented in terms of something else. We say that Bacon's line denotes, or points to a concept, while Miss Moore's line connotes or suggests several things. This is not to say that Bacon's idea may not start a whole train of mental associations. We may begin to wonder about the way our children are reading, or about our own reading speed or comprehension, but an emotional reaction that takes us off in several directions is not demanded at first reading as it is in Miss Moore's definition. The contrast between "imaginary garden" and "real LESSON DEPARTMENT toads" will suggest different things to different people, but all of them can be considered as legitimate parts of this line's meaning. If we analyze impersonally, we may be logically wrong or logically right, but if we react personally we can only be described as sensitive or insensitive. The more you bring to a work, the more connotative meaning it has. "Of Studies" and "Poetry" can be "swallowed" as well as '"'tasted," but neither demands it. A poem such as Tennyson's ''Flower in the Crannied Wall," however, must be swallowed or rejected, for it is not composed of a series of concepts or suggestions which can stand alone. A single idea is developed metaphorically. Each detail helps to build the final "meaning" of the work. You can reject this development, of course, as the one English teacher in our discussion of this poem does, but the poem is more than the sum of its parts and, in fairness, must be considered as a whole. E. M. Forster's "The Celestial Omnibus" can be both "tasted"' and "swallowed," but it really needs to be "digested." It repays multiple reading with multiple meaning. In this selection a series of attitudes toward literature are not only examined, they are also evaluated. Contrasting points of view are conveyed in diction, style, and statement. This story is so constructed that each character is a developing symbol, and this adds richness and levels of meaning to the entire work. Note, for instance, how Mr. Bons begins to reveal himself when he mentions the 'seven Shelleys" he owns. 631 AUGUST 1964 TRUTH VS. MEANING In "Ode on a Grecian Urn" Keats asserts that "Beauty is truth, truth beauty." Such a statement has poetic meaning, this is, it sums up the intent of this entire poem as adequately as any few words can, but even this statement about truth need not be ''true" to us if we judge its claim on the basis of standards not in the work itself. If we remember the distinction we set up in our first lesson between the so-called Platonic and Aristotelian approaches to literature, you will recall that only under the Platonic method are the message, or truth of a work, and its meaning the same. Under the Aristotelian approach we are not looking for truth so much as we are looking at relationships. If these relationships are skillfully presented — as they are in Keats' poem — we call these relationships the poem's "'meaning." We have voluntarily restricted our standards for judging to those which we find in the work itself. As might be expected, this approach is popular with those who do not have strong philosophical or religious beliefs. As members of the Church, we have such encompassing. Beliefs that we are seldom at a loss to establish standards for judgment. It might well be argued, therefore, that for many of us the burden of Keats' "Ode" is meaningful but untrue. Judged by standards set up in the work itself the exclusive identification of truth and beauty seems inevitable. The various images which are presented so graphically are wonderfully evocative. This is physical beauty at its acme. But viewed from a shghtly higher level, this is hardly all we "know on earth" or "need to know." At best, Keats' statement seems partial. To say this, however, is not to say that we can afford to ignore it. To appreciate the depth which Keats sounds in this poem is in itself instructive, for it lets us see how shallow our vision of the whole is in comparison with this beautifully plumbed __halftruth. The Mosaic law may be only a school master, but we hardly understand the New Testament concept of self-sacrificing love unless we have assimilated the Old Testament idea of fairness. So it is with our critical appreciation. If we insist that truth and meaning must be identical, we are not being fair either to our own basic beliefs or to a work which falls short of presenting them _ All the sensitivity which we develop in extracting meaning that is limited by the work in which it occurs, will be even more useful in appreciating the profound truths of the restored gospel. QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What is the advantage of viewing a literary work from several critical perspectives? 2. On what basis may we surmise that some works will survive the time in which they are written? 3. What is involved in understanding the total meaning of a literary work? 4. Why should we study works whose "truth" seems to us to be limited? Note to Class Leaders: Longfellow's wife was not fatally burned at Christmas time as stated in the October Literature Lesson but on July 10, 1861. 632 SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government Elder Ariel S. Ballif Lesson 16 — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations For Fourth Meeting, November 1964 Objective: To point out that the place of honor for the Priesthood in the home is claimed on meritorious behavior.-... Govern your house in meekness, and be steadfast (D&C 31:9).... I exhort you, masters, fathers, and husbands, to be affectionate and kind to those you preside over. And let them be obedient, let the wife be subject to her husband, and the children to their parents (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses 1:69). Let the father be the head of the family, the master of his own household; and let him treat them as an angel would treat them (Ibid., 4:55). THE organizational strength of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is found in the authority placed upon worthy male members. The same power, the Priesthood of God, which makes for the success of the Church, is a powerful factor in the health and success of the Latter-day Saint family when this power is properly applied to the life of the holder, and exercised in righteousness for the family as a whole. By tradition and by the teachings of the Church, the father is the head of the family. The responsibility of control (or direction or authority, whichever term one chooses to use) of the family is, therefore, in the hands of the Priesthood. That alone is not the important point, but the responsibility such a position of leadership demands is of vital concern. The foundation of the Priesthood power or authority is love. Love is expressed in thoughtful consideration of others and in assuming the _ responsibility for their well-being and individual expression. The head of the family, then, must be able to justify his leadership by his thoughtful and loving direction, through counsel and _ patience with each member of his family. In fact, his measure of success in his calling both as a father and as an elder in Israel is found in the success he attains with the members of his own family. Thus, in a period of social change the father becomes a pillar of stability for those about him, a strength in his wisdom and counsel. However, in all phases of his leadership, he and his wife are one, especially in the family responsibility. Among the important things expected of the Priesthood bearer in the role of a father should be: (1) Full acceptance of the opportunity of teaching and training the children. Too often this has been left solely to the mother who has certainly been 633 AUGUST 1964 very successful in many cases; but a man holding the Priesthood cannot excuse himself by leaving the teaching of his children to his wife. Together they must assume this responsibility. (2) He should accept the responsibility for the degree of order and discipline of the home, both for the group and for each member individually. The members of the family learn responsible activity at home more effectively than anywhere else in society. Every child should learn to respect the rights of others, to respect leadership, and even more important, each child should learn, first, to be a good follower if he is to become a leader. There is no place for brute force or whips. A firm hand and steady, at the proper time, will build character instead of trouble in the life of a child. Leadership in the family is not an excuse to force obedience on intelligent human beings. Priesthood cannot rightly be interpreted as dictation or unrighteous dominion. On the contrary, the Priesthood entails the responsibility to see that the best in human expression and experience is obtained through love, counsel, consideration, understanding and companionship for all members of the family. (3) A third obligation on the head of the family and the bearer of the Priesthood is to develop the spirit of at-one-ness spoken of so often in the scriptures. This can be accomplished by the development of unity and commonness of purpose made possible through love and understanding. The idea expressed in "if ye are not one, ye are not mine," applies first to the family as the basic unit of the Church. The 634 Priesthood does not simply represent authority to direct in the home, but it is the responsibility to direct, persuade, encourage, and lead in wisdom and charity to a common understanding and unity. The influence which the Priesthood should develop in the home makes an ideal setting for the active presence of true Christian principles in family life. The essence of the Christian spirit is love and the real power of the Priesthood is love. Love provides the ideal soil in which family experiences may thrive. Love cannot be a one-way affair for husband or wife or parent or child. It must be a mutual thing for balanced development in all members of the family. U J r TRITART IN FAMILY Government is designed to give meaning and direction to group association. The word govern implies steering, direction, regulation and/or control. In our discussion of the head of the family we have pointed out that the responsibility for directing and regulating family life is in his hands. How he does it is of most importance. The Prophet Joseph Smith gave us the key when he pointed out that he taught the saints correct principles and they governed themselves. The Prophet at another time indicated that "The government of God has always tended to promote peace, unity, harmony, strength and happiness" (Smith, Joseph Fielding: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 248). This is the objective of Church government and must be the same for the family. The home is the anchor spot for establishing in the minds of the children the truths of the gospel. It is true that all men have their free agency. Each person must make his own decision from knowledge, experience, faith, and understanding. Knowing the law is important, but the blessings come from living the law. Performance is what counts. God never fails to recognize right living. The head of the family, if he is in tune with the Spirit of God, can receive special enlightenment in the direction of his family. To the honest and true Latter-day Saint, the only real restriction and restraining influence in the functicning of Church government is the restraining influence that comes from knowing, and being fully aware of the damaging results of wrong decisions. As has been said before, true virtue is knowing the gocd and the evil and choosing the good. The great challenge to the Priesthood bearer and his wife is expressed in the two questions: Are you teaching your family the truths of the gospel in an effective manner? How does your performance measure up to the standards taught by the Church? Every day parents are setting the pattern of living that may automatically become the pattern of their children. What they do overpowers what they say. Daily decisions, actions, and even thoughts become influences on children from their birth to adulthood. SOME COMMON AREAS OF PATTERN SETTING 1. Respect for law and order HAWAII Tours to October 12th TOURS TO OAKLAND TEMPLE Preview and Dedication October through November TOURS TO THE ROSE PARADE in Pasadena, California December through January Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 is fundamentally established in the home environment. When a parent boasts to the family that he broke a traffic law without being caught, he is suggesting to young ears that the evil is in being caught. Irreparable damage may be done to the child's attitude toward honoring, obeying, and sustaining the law. 2. If in teaching the Word of Wisdom in the home, the emphasis is placed upon careful selection of wholesome foods, the use of wisdom in all these things, the child will learn through a pesitive approach to such teachings that good results from healthful living. Contrast the above situation with the example of having on your shelves or even scmetimes on the table, things not in harmony with the revealed word. This last situation raises questions in the minds of grow- 635 Rg 4 * } BEAUTIFUL MUSIC FOR LADIES THREE PART VOICES oeABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen 20 weETERNAL LIFE—Dungan 25 a. GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR—Berlin __ sas ween illIN THY FORM—Madsen._._ _..20.. LleHEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn __ 002. 0.25 wealIF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen 2 LET ALL MY LIFE BE MUSIC—Spross rr. LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT for Joy—Stephens 20..- llLORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen _ ____ 20 nsLORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER—Verdi -----ilLORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen 20 ae. PRAIRIE LULLABY—Rich __ 20 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 i I \ Please send the music _ indicated i ' \ \ ( i [J On Approval above. 0) Charge (J Money Enclosed A>rZ Qa Qa = C w" 7) i w f=] ' ———— <i eae es ee i eee ee Mm~iM—~mmMm—= aE a > a oe ee eS ee ee) ee ee ee Se ee ee Ge oe Gee ee ee ee ee oe eee eS ee 15 E. Lst South] / Salt take City 11, Utah) ing children that may result in unnecessary experimentation. 3. Honesty is too often given a secondor third-rate place in our teaching emphasis. Do you ever feel so tired and worn out, or for another reason, suggest to your child that he answer the door or the telephone and say you are not at home? Young offenders who have been apprehended for stealing and lying have been quite upset when offered a drink of coffee because drinking the coffee would be breaking the Word of Wisdom. To them, breaking the Word of Wisdom is more serious than dishonesty. This, it is hoped, is an extreme case, but just such an attitude could be created at home unless honesty is the standard policy in our example to our children. 4. Is your pattern of religious worship tied only to attendance at religious service on Sunday? Or do you have a reverent attitude at your work and in your home, thus creating a peaceful environment for your family every day? 5. Does your application of charity begin at home and spread to your neighbors and friends? Being as concerned about the welfare of each member of your family as you are for your own welfare, is the proper beginning for the application of the first and second great commandments. Love overcomes selfishness, pride, and hate. It fills men's hearts with peace and understanding. Love of fellow men is the real testimony of one's love of God. "BY PERSUASION AND LONG SUFFERING" The intricate task of directing one's family in accordance with the divine plan is a test of faith and a real measure of one's understanding of the gospel. The responsibility of the Priesthood is far reaching. Psalms 127:3-5 says, "children are an heritage of the Lord:... Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them." Being cocreators with God in bringing children into this world makes fathers and mothers accountable to the Father for the welfare of his spirit children and their successful return to his presence. Parents are responsible for the material necessities of life for the family members. Doctrine and Covenants 83:4 says, "All children have claim upon their parents for their maintenance until they are of age." In Timothy 5:8 we read, "if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel." But material things are not the most important requirements. In Section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants, verses 25-26, the Lord says, "inasmuch as parents have children... That teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents." And again in Section 93:40, "I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth." These instructions cover the temporal, intellectual, and spiritBLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR 8 days — August 16 to August 23 Includes Earthquake area, Mt. Rushmore and Elitch Gardens BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY 27 days — August 29 to September 24 WORLD'S FAIR and NEW ENGLAND AND CANADIAN FALL TOUR 29 days — August 29 to September 26 LABOR DAY TOUR 3 days — September 5 to September 7 Includes Southern Utah's beautiful parks OAKLAND TEMPLE PREVIEW TOUR 4 days — October 3 to October 6 Includes preview showing of Oakland Temple and San Francisco HAWAIIAN TOURS October 17 to October 31 14 days in the Islands, 7 days in the Outer Islands Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 -80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, ay — PESERET [PeEews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 637 ~~ Come With Us To THE HOLY LAND including the MIDDLE EAST COUNTRIES Istanbul—Beirut—Cairo—Luxor Jordan—Israel Athens—Rome 21 Day All Expense Personally Escorted Leaves—October 8th Call or Write Murdock Jravel, Inc. (Your Experienced Travel Counselor) 14 South Main Salt Lake City 328-3161 Special for Mormon Weddings Reception Invitations, Napkins, Albums, etc., featuring L. D. S. Temple designs. (Conventional styles 100 for $5.95.) Write for FREE catalog and samples. In raised lettering only $95 (Catalog airmail for 25¢ — Oakland Temple Designs) REXCRAFT - Rexburg, idaho - 83440 638 ual well-being of the family members. The instruction to all who hold the Priesthood is to accomplish all that the divine plan includes in the spirit of love and kindness, long-suffering, patience and persuasion. (D&C 121:39- 46; 4:6). These instructions apply to activity involving the Priesthood and its _ functions. This surely would involve the operation of the Priesthood bearer within his own family. SUMMARY In summary we can say that the father is rightfully the head of the house, honoring his Priesthood galling and performing his duties in love and kindness. He must also recognize that the family is a joint agreement with his wife and she shares with him in all the values and blessings that the Priesthood implies. It should be understood that the honor and glory of the Priesthood come through worthy performance of every duty with an eye single to the glory of God. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. How can a family share in the benefits of the Melchizedek Priesthood? 2. What is the place of leadership for a wife and mother in a Latter-day Saint home? 3. How important is your behavior, and pattern of life in the development of your children? 4. How early do children become influenced by the attitudes of their parents? REFERENCES Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 68, 83, 93, 121. Book of Mormon, Alma, Chapter 58. Widtsoe, John A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapter 7. @ Is your family grown or mostly grown? Sj e Do you want to become a technically competent, contributing member of society? Adult (Cc education in @ Would you be proud to serve as a registered nurse with an Associate of Arts degree? AUFSING LL R@ @ Are you in need of dignified, remunerative employment? ) 4 EVENING CLASSES IN SALT LAKE CITY " BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY COLLEGE OF NURSING Through the B. Y. U.-Salt Lake Adult Education Center offer a two year associate degree career in NURSING FOR MATURE WOMEN WHO ARE HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATES FOR COMPLETE INFORMATION WRITE OR PHONE salt lake city, wtah, S4id3.. FIRST CLASS STARTS SEPTEMBER 29, 1964 J BY SALT LAKE ADULT EDUCATION CENTER 200 Worth Maine 328-0325 Golden Wedding Anniversary Ida Elaine James You left me, and | managed half a smile. | dusted half the staircase; all the while My mind half on my work... Around noon | perched on the piano bench, played half a tune; Your dear words running through my head, Walked half way round the yard instead. At dusk, the long day almost done, Upon my window sill sat half a sun. The moon came, full and whole, my sweet, And you came home to me, | am complete. Christie Lund Coles Where can one find the goodness of a child, Its innocence, its trust, its guileless charms, Who, even as a mother reprimands, Weeps for the reassurance of her arms? 639 One Hundred Five Mrs. Lizzie Dell Merrill Hillsboro, New Hampshire One Hundred Mrs. Chloe C. Spencer Aurora, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. Annie Ericksen Benson Logan, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. Mina Vernettia Williams Twitchell Spokane, Washington Mrs. Ellen Morris Marriott Ogden, Utah Mrs. Harriet L. Bronson Woodland Ogden, Utah Mrs. Josephine Robinson Harris Provo, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Alice Spillett Gregory Union, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Rachel Fowles Peterson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Chelnecha Damron Barron incom, Idaho Mrs. Lillie Potthouff Strache Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Fredonia Lloyd Baker Bicknell, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Anderson Maxwell Paragonah, Utah 640 Ninety-two Mrs. Elizabeth Sorensen Goshen, Utah Mrs. Laura Ann Ewell Dennis Visalia, California Mrs. Malina Morrill Lee Torrey, Utah Mrs. Emma Jacobs Williams Cardston, Alberta Canada Mrs. Sarah Isabell Brown Sneed Elwood City, Pennsylvania Ninety-one Mrs. Emily Jane Boyack Booth Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Violet Lunt Urie Cedar City, Utah Mrs. Daisy Nelson San Francisco, California Mrs. Annie Blight National City, California Mrs. Clara B. Lee Holbrook, Arizona Ninety Mrs. Francis Cask Kirk Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Elizabeth Fletcher Jones Orem, Utah Mrs. Myrtie May Van Doozer Savage Azusa, California Mrs. Abigail Kekoolani Honokaa, Hawaii Mrs. Amelia A. Cross Holbrook, Arizona New from Deseret Book Relief Society Reading Course Volume OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS —An Anthology of Literature, Volume I (The Individual and Human Values) by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Here it is! The first in a series of analysis of fine world literature. Out of the Best Books, Volume I, is the exciting, new Relief Society course outline for the '64-'65 and '65-66 years. Great literature from the pens of men like Robert Browning, William Wordsworth, Robert Burns, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and many others come to life with more meaning in this exciting volume. Here is a valuable addition to every LDS library! $2.9° T Deseret Bc Book | COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Deseret Book Company 44. East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Dear Sir: Enclosed please find $3.10 for my copy of Out of the Best Books Volume I. Money Order (1, Check((], I have an account, please charge [_] a I — Z SS ML Residents of Utah add 312% sales tax. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Have you ever seen a bonafide check for $19,433.17? Neither had Mollie Hobson. Life had little to offer Mollie but hard work and loneliness. Well past fifty and a widow, her last boy, Jerry, was forced to seek employment asa farm worker in a community a considerable distance from home. Jerry failed to mention his purchase of a $10,000 Beneficial insurance plan, but in the few blinding seconds before the fatal automobile accident which took Have you ever seen a check for hilife, peiMapacthetnalieeaee that fortunate purchase flashed $19,433. 77? Through his mind. Since the policy carried accidental death benefits doubling the face amount, the proceeds would have been $20,000, except for the fact that in settling proof of death, it was discovered that Jerry had misstated his age as somewhat younger than his actual age. It was necessary, therefore, to deduct $550.56 to adjust properly the discrepancy in age. A grateful mother will now enjoy some modest comfort and freedom from worry thanks to the foresight of a loving son and the wisdom and miracle of life insurance! From the Beneficial Life files BENEFICIAL LIFE Srscrance GE Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Over 600 million dollars of life insurance in force. 