Volume 51 Number 1 January 1964 Lessons for April Happ x New Year | Hi arprpy New Year to each and all! A glad, prosperous year ahead is our wish for you. Success in your undertakings, happiness in your homes,. Peace in your lives, and joy in your souls is our prayer for you. Faith in great abundance, a deep, abiding testimony, a motivating desire for greater spirituality, a stirring longing for gospel knowledge is our hope for you. "Lift up your hearts and be glad, for I am in your midst, and am your advocate with the Father; and it is his good will to give you the kingdom." This great promise given by the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith is a promise to the worthy who are willing to work in his kingdom. The Lord speaks of the gospel as the "voice of gladness" and as "glad tidings of great joy."' His instruction "that ye are chosen out of the world to declare my gospel with the sound of rejoicing" gives us the realization that only in righteous living is there true happiness and cause for rejoicing. How full of joy our lives are meant to be! Yet joy and happiness are of our own making. The secret of happiness lies within us. Some do not understand that to possess happiness one must pay the price in loving kindness, in devoted service, and in uplifting goodness. All of us have experienced failures and have made mistakes. Let us bury them in the unretraceable past, keeping only the wisdom derived from such experiences to guide our future. The New Year will be prosperous and happy if we make it so. The first day of the calendar year is one of the oldest of festivals. Its celebration is well-nigh universal. Dear sisters all over the world, as you celebrate the New Year, as is your custom, remember that our beloved Relief Society binds us together in a great, loving sisterhood. Its organization under the inspiration of our Father in heaven was for this purpose and to make us "'one'"' in his service. The New Year is rich in the promise of glorious opportunities. Let us make the most of them! Affectionately, weeny foe nok ate I have been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine ever since it was printed, and my mother always took the Woman's Exponent, so it is needless to say how much I appreciate the publication. It is part of my life. I have had responsibility in Relief Society almost all my adult life. I appreciate the wonderful articles and sermons in the M agazine. The poetry and stories are excellent. I have a little slogan that I think applies to Relief Society: There's a wealth of satisfaction in a labor well done, and a sense of great achievement when many work as one. __Mrs. Janette Crapo Miller St. Anthony, Idaho Truly The Relief Society Magazine is a missionary in very deed. It has opened the door for me into conversations which have led into wonderful gospel discussions with those of other faiths on many occasions. —__Ethel Lewis Ogden, Utah I must thank you for the wonderful article in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine, by Mary M. Ellsworth, "A Message to Young Mothers," a most inspiring and practical article which my friends and I have enjoyed. _Mrs. Claren Jorgensen Corte Madera, California Thank you for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. They are so pretty, with their colors, that they put sunshine into my days. After we finish our lessons on the Doctrine and Covenants, I hope we can study another of our standard works. —Patricia A. Leader Troy, Montana I am especially impressed with "A Message to Young Mothers," by Mary M. Ellsworth in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I am going to try hard to follow the counsel given in this article. Thanks to Sister Ellsworth for the profound wisdom she displays in this article. Her lovely family is fortunate to have a mother with ideas of this kind. Also, I want to say thanks to Maxine Grimm for the article on "Ironing Out the Wrinkles," and I have been trying to use my ironing time to iron out my weaknesses. —Joan Garrard Oakland, California Many thanks for The Relief Society Magazine and Mary M. Ellsworth for the inspiring "Message to Young Mothers" in the October issue. Most of us try to grasp and absorb fragments of wisdom to help us over our trying times, but these fragments are sometimes hard to find and to call to mind when we really need them. So here we have been given a whole storehouse of practical help which I, for one, am going to keep in front of me to memorize and draw upon when the need arises. —Nina Panes Scarborough Ontario, Canada I wish it were possible for the sisters who write all the wonderful things in our Magazine to visit the Relief Societies and let us meet them. Our Magazine could not possibly be the help and inspiration it ls to so many mothers, old and young, if it were not for our wonderful sisters who are planning for our benefit. To me the Magazine is a messenger, bringing a message of courage, help, and good will. —-Lola B. Walker Monterey, California 

 VOLUME 51 JANUARY 1964 NUMBER 1 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features Happy New Year! General Presidency Purpose of the Relief Society Joseph Fielding Smith John Fitzgerald Kennedy Award Winners — Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest The First to Go — First Prize Poem Alice Morrey Bailey 10 Verdure — Second Prize Poem Hazel Loomis 11 Quo Vadis? — Third Prize Poem Margery S. Stewart 13. Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest 14 Moment of Trust — First Prize Story Mary Ek Knowles 25 The New March of Dimes The National Foundation 35 What Is a Work Meeting Leader? Sylvia Lundgren SCO OO Fiction 20 Carol's Christmas Adelle Ashby 29 The Lost Star Hazel K. Todd 43 Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 7 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 2 From Near and Far 25 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 26 Editorial: The Day of the Lamanite Marianne C. Sharp 28 Notes to the Field: Bound Volumes of the 1963 Magazines 50 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 80 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out 37 Playtime Recipes Janet W. Breeze 38 Ear Huggers Are Nice Shirley Thulin 40 Stretching the Food Budget — Part IV — Dried Beans Marion Bennion and Sadie O. Morris 42 Della Gleed's Hobby Is Making Gifts Lessons for April 57 Theology — Missionary Service Roy W. Doxey 62 Visiting Teacher Message — "Wherefore, Be Not Weary in Well-Doing" Christine H. Robinson 64 Work Meeting — Planning the Family Wardrobe Virginia F. Cutler 66 Literature — Sinclair Lewis, American Self-Satirist Briant S. Jacobs 72 Social Science — The Opportunity and Responsibility of a Calling in Church Government Ariel S. Ballif Poetry Give Me These, by Elsie F. Parton, 5; Exile, by Gilean Douglas, 49; First Heartaches, by Gladys Hesser Burnham, 79; Camoes, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 79; Precious Moment, by Verda P. Bollschweiler, 79. The Cover: Winter in Grand Canyon, Arizona, by Claire W. Noall, lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press; Frontispiece: Snow and Shadows, by Harold M. Lambert; Art Layout by Dick Scopes; Illustrations by Mary Scopes. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Purpose of the Relief Society President Joseph Fielding Smith of The Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963] As I stand here looking into your faces, this brings to me wonderment, and I wonder if the Prophet Joseph Smith saw in vision the sight that I am beholding here this morning. On the 17th day of March, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith met with a number of the sisters of the Church in Nauvoo and organized them into a society which was given the name of "The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo."' Besides the appointment of officers, the Prophet Joseph Smith gave the sisters general instructions, quoting from The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants. The detailed instruction of this opening session was not recorded, but it had to do primarily with the responsibility devolving upon the sisters of the Church in the care of the poor, the sick, and the afflicted. That this organization was by revelation, there can be no doubt. This truth has been abundantly demonstrated throughout the years and today its value and necessity are abundantly attested. No bishop in the Church could carefully and efficiently care for the many wants of his ward without the help that comes from this wonderful organization. 4 In his journal, March 24, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote that he again met with the Relief Society. The record states that there was a very "numerous attendance." On this occasion the Prophet pointed out in some detail the purposes of the organization, saying that knowledge of the pure principles of humane, philanthropic benevolence could flow continuously from _ the bosoms of the sisters in behalf of strangers, the distressed, the widows and orphans, and make their hearts rejoice. He said: Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel usage that they received from the barbarians of Missouri, has hitherto prevented their extending the hand of charity in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst of the persecution, when the bread has been torn from their helpless offspring by their cruel oppressors, they have always been ready to open their doors to the weary traveler, to divide their scant pittance with the hungry, and from their robbed and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with the more needy and destitute; and now that they are living upon a more genial soil, and among a less_ barbarous people, and possess facilities that they have not heretofore enjoyed, we feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts, the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated (DHC IV, 567-68). From this humble start under the most difficult conditions, when the membership of the Church was small, we have seen this Society grow until it spreads over most of the civilized countries of the world. The good that has been accomplished in the care of the poor, care of the sick and the afflicted, and those who are in physical, mental, or spiritual need, will never correctly be known. This, however, need not be our concern. The main interest lies in the fact that all of this has been accomplished through the spirit of love in accordance with the true spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is clear to see that without this wonderful organization, The Church of Jesus PURPOSE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY Christ of Latter-day Saints never could have been completely organized. We, the Brethren of the Church, honor and respect our good sisters for their unselfish devotion to this glorious cause. We stand to lend encouragement and in every way possible to lend assistance where assistance is required for the success of the Relief Societies of the Church. Our prayers ascend in your behalf. May the spirit of the Lord be with you always to buoy you up and give you strength and courage in this wonderful department of the Church, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ, Amen. Give Me These Elsie F. Parton Give me a pen, the ardent pen of hope, That | may write no word of doubting fear, That weak men may be strengthened in their trust And strong men stand convincing and sincere. Oh, give to me the fallen crumbs of faith That lie unheeded on the marbled floor, That | may mold them into firmer shape And give them power, greater than before. Give me a pen, the ardent pen of hope, That glowing words may rouse some weary mind And light the flames of courage in some breast When hopeless eyes have made the vision blind. Oh, give to me the scattered crumbs of hope That | may place them in a crystal bowl And find in each, a gleaming ray of light To brighten and enrich the downcast soul. Give me a pen engraved with charity, That | may write with eloquence my part And give to men a symphony of love, A joyful melody within the heart. Give me a spacious world that | may plant In fertile soil, the leaven of these three, Where men may reap the fruitage of these vines— Strong faith, firm hope, and boundless charity. On Friday, November 22, 1963, while riding in an open car in Dallas, Texas, President John Fitzgerald Kennedy, age forty-six, was shot and fatally wounded. His young wife Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy was in the car with him. President Kennedy, a native of New England, and son of a distinguished and closely knit family, was of Irish descent, the first Roman Catholic to become President of the United States, and the youngest man ever to preside as Chief Executive. His untimely and tragic death cast sorrow across many nations as leaders of the Free World grieved for their departed champion. A sad symbol of lost leadership was the riderless horse which followed the caisson in the processions of the final rites. Mrs. Kennedy, thirty-four, mother of two living children, Caroline, six, and John F. Kennedy, Jr., three, evidenced great devotion, selfcontrol, and courage of a high order during the days of mourning and the final rites. She walked behind the flag-draped casket on its journey from the White House to St. Matthew's Cathedral, as did some other members of the family and the visiting heads of States. At the graveside she lighted a torch which is to burn perpetually at the head of the grave. Immediately following the announcement of President Kennedy's death, President David O. McKay of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints issued a statement for the Church: "I am deeply grieved and shocked beyond expression at this tragedy. In behalf of the Church in all the world I express sincere sympathy to Mrs. Kennedy and children and all of the close relatives and friends. The entire nation feels a sense of humiliation that such a tragedy could come to a President of the United States. Only a few weeks ago it was our privilege to entertain the President and now to think that he has gone we are stunned as well as shocked. It is terrible to think that such a tragedy could occur in this age of the world. Our prayers go in sincere and earnest appeal to the Almighty that he will comfort the nation in this hour of tragic grief." President McKay appointed First Counselor Hugh B. Brown to represent the Church at the funeral services in Washington, D. C. In Salt Lake City, Utah, the Tabernacle Choir presented with beauty and solemnity a memorial concert, and, on the day of the funeral, President N. Eldon Tanner presided at a moving and impressive memorial service in the Tabernacle. Vice President Lyndon Baines Johnson of Texas took the oath of office an hour and a half after the death of President Kennedy, an impressive demonstration of the wisdom of the Founding Fathers in their provision for continuity of office in the Presidency of the United States. Former Presidents of the United States, Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower attended the services and diplomatic representatives and heads of States from ninety-two nations. The body of President Kennedy was laid to rest in Arlington National Cemetery, across the Potomac, not far from the Lincoln Memorial and the sad and brooding statue of the Great Emancipator. President Kennedy's statement of courage and patriotism voiced in his Inaugural Address, less than three years before, was many times repeated: "Ask not what your country can do for you, but rather ask what you can do for your country." Tue Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1963 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1963 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15,1963. The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "The First to Go." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Hazel Loomis, Casper, Wyoming, for her poem "Verdure." The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Margery S. Stewart, Pacific Palisades, California, for her poem "Quo Vadis." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and inspirational leader. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at' the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Mrs. Bailey appears for the fifth time as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest; Mrs. Loomis is a first-time winner; and Mrs. Stewart is a third-time winner. There were 330 poems entered in the contest for 1963. Entries were received from thirty-six of the fifty states, including Hawaii, with the largest number, in order, coming from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Oregon, and Washington. England, Canada, Australia, Wales, Scotland, and Peru were also represented among the entries. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes also to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are published in this issue of the Magazine. 8 FIRST PRIZE POEM One has gone ahead, alone, ISdom, Out beyond the known, Adam drew the firs Cold Mortal] breath rank th aIr which yields both life and death —_ C see or fee! The first ¢ know C some quest, the first t go me drea " SOMe wil] to learn, Path Which m Y ha NO return, he require, What Priceless lures han his life, that he €ndur Stretchin hirst, the arctic's jc farned one, the Sacrific S so Sublime is Precious Oil of time? I] rer has ¢ Mbed the earth Ned its Oceans, Circumsc bed its 8irth, ut beyong th Fagon belt. Itars Wher his SONS have knelt, ion' flag UPON the Poles, €vealing newer, farther 80als n tr dition's ancient bars nd | 8ing on the stars t d IMpels 4n to Stand r ever Od, some far-off land, Owerin Mountain Peak, an OCean floor? Hat instinct leads him to an UNMarkeq door To Dick and pry, to fumble and to knock Until the 8rudgin Stores of truth Unlock? HT The Seeker fter truth Proclaims his find Mong th right ventures of the Mind. Measures Weighs, and bends his Scrutiny O UNnSee ntinent " his tin S Stirred b ailure Cath, diseas 4nd pain Nd one by o thes enemie are Slain. € forms his €Oories tests; Cir flaws nd Proves the mig ays of n ture's laws, His Silhoy iS bold @84inst the light righter q n, and he the hining knight Ose Sharp tiletto Point ¢ Slit the tent ignora e€, and through it ened rent All men Pour. Ang C0n they, too, hall fly MOng the tars f he has Pierced the Sky, Hazel Loomis SECOND PRIZE POEM So small between the pink pearls The fire opal clouds and the mare's tail swishing high, | ran barefoot in the curling sands. Every part of me was Sabbath then. Praise rose from the flesh — cool shadows Fanning sun the bleeding currant bushes Where |! Came To mother's singing steps. Father close on prophet wheels, Blue dancing from his eyes To pleasant sheets of green... Falling in swathes With each purring round. | ran, the sun safe in my arms, To father's chuckling boost on Jetta's back Fast strapped — |! Now was Sweeper of the Sky Chief Rider of the Dappled Mare! The lamb — soft days with Jetta — She was lute and David — Jubilee Of hooves and hair — of clinging mane — my horse And | lived there. Time wore ribbons as | swung From cliff to cliff Below the green valley where weasels raced, Snakes grew long, and dragon flies Fanned willow fronds. Four fingers young. | wrote my name And sifted rocks the ants had made. | watched The stovepipe for the reindeer swoop. Awaited The lingering orange and the doll with hair. The world grew and |, too, With barns stuffed green — With cows and buckets and milk foam Washing the golden paths. Night came purring on lion's feet — until A coyote's siren ripped the shrouds apart And morning broke as bulls locked horns To fight it out on crimson sod, While | stood puny on the green lawn. Ample squaws with smiling teeth And midnight eyes Clothed in blankets striped with fire, came And going carried the sun the stars and me To the slender road up the giant hill. Farewell, my green and gallant freedom Farewell. Margery S. Stewart THIRD PRIZE POEM They say that Peter Fleeing his cross, Plodding through midnight On the Appian Way, Was halted by an angel, Who asked gently, ''Quo Vadis? Quo Vadis, Peter?' and the words Made a gate. When | was a child Pondering this story | was resolute, No two words would keep me Or hold me from going Where the cross was not, Would send me to the Irrefutable hammer and the Splintering wood. With all my childish strength | leaned down years Urging Peter on, past angel, Past anguish... Slow blood Rusting on the nails.. Oh, hurry, hurry, Peter! What manner of angel Brings a riddle at the hour Of one's death? But | have learned That all disciples come Soon or late To that same midnight and The angel's cry Even | Most shabby follower. Quo Vadis is a gate Opening to a touch... To where? To what? Without him what way is there? Peter's answer was his turning back. 11 12 JANUARY 1964 - This year's award in Me. Other Poem articles, and three I y s (many of them Serials of her C urch work auxiliaries She j I and ¢t een represented In The Poems. She Was born in r un IVersities, Mrs. Husband was killed; aS poems. At Present Nnday Scho Active the Stake ol teacher. " Stewart has bee frontispiec Poem T Work has app lonal Circy ation, Many Contests. 1 art €xPresseg joy: "7 have €njoyed the ] Constant Challen as a Continuing ve gained through Writing and the of €xpression " T ue Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1963 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1963. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Mary Ek Knowles, Ogden, Utah, for her story "Moment of Trust.' The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Lael J. Littke, Monterey Park, California, for her story "Mama Lives in the Kitchen." The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Myrtle M. Dean, Provo, Utah, for her story "Someone to Cheer for Johnny." The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. AW ar(l winners ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY SHORT STORY CONTEST The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1964. Seventy-three stories, the largest number ever submitted, were entered in the contest for 1963, including submissions from Canada, Australia, Wales, and England. Mrs. Knowles is 4 fifth-time winner in the contest; Mrs. Littke is a first-time winner; and Mrs. Dean is a fourth-time winner. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 13 Vioment Mary Ek Knowles First Prize-Winning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Bubp came to Donna while she was fixing Patti's hair in rollers and listening to her read from the third grade reader. He asked, "Mom, can you let me have five bucks tomorrow?" Donna had hoped that this moment would not come. She was aware of her son towering over her, tall and handsome with his brown eyes and crew cut. Bud was only sixteen but he had always acted quite adult and sensible—until he fell in love with pretty Candy Thompson. "Five dollars!" she cried, stalling for time, wishing that Sheldon was not in Portland on business. He would handle this problem calmly. She was inclined to become emotional. Her head was already beginning to ache. ''Whatever for, Bud?" "The Spring Hop is tomorrow night and I'm broke." There was almost a note of surprise in Bud's voice. Donna remembered that for over a month, ever since Bud 14 earned fifteen dollars helping Mr. Brown move to his new hardware store, both she and Sheldon had been warning him, ""Remember to save your money for the big dance."' And she remembered with a hot rush of anger the way Bud had said casually, "Ah, don't worry, Mom. I know what I'm doing," as he continued to spend and spend money on popular Candy. Now she said firmly, "Your father and I warned you that if you spent your money foolishly, you would have to take the consequences." "But, Mom!" his voice cracked a little. "Things came up." "Tike malts and hamburgers at Hoddy's," she interrupted, 'and sessions at the bowling alley and two trips to the city." "But, Mom, if you want to keep a popular girl like Candy, you have to show her a good time!" She remembered that this was her head. Aren't the Ye) mi you have acted like o nN addi the fifteen dollars, y have Spen 0) And Bud Is So completely daffy t your Week] allowabout her th t he's knocked off ance % his even eel, Donna Orried "You on't | have the Maybe andy Would never date Ive bucks, then?" im Lain; and Bud — he ha "No, ud." She turne Iway, ken discipline like g ead because She could not gs Man, but this was different. Now to see the White Stricke look 6 €one would ave to Suffer Is face and there 48 a pound. €Cause of him. Ing in her forehead. € finished the last roller "T've Zot to Set five bucks " ff to b d, arling," € said Somewhere!" There Was despera_ "Did I read al] right, Mommy?" 10n in S Voice as he Walked out She asked. Of the room. "Vou read beautifully " She atti askeq < Isn't ud goin Issed her small daug ter, think O take Cand O the dance?' Ing ho UNComplicated Were "He can't, Patt has spent Problems yw th nine-year old. All of hig money," "But, Mo Y, Candy a ai Jp Was after eleven When she New dress for the dance, J OY told went to h b me." Joy w S Candy's InN€-year-: JANUARY 1964 Sheldon in Portland, but he would not relent, either. They had always been firm with Bud, knowing he was in that difficult age where he was constantly testing them, demanding more and more that they give in to him, yet unconsciously, inconsistently, hoping they wouldn't give in, so that in a world where true values are taken lightly, he could depend on their unshakeable discipline. At breakfast Bud looked so worried that her heart ached for him. She wanted desperately to give him the money. What was five dollars! But she knew it wasn't the money involved. He must take the consequences of his mistakes to become a mature, responsible adult. Bud got up from the table and a few minutes later when she lifted the receiver to telephone her grocery order, she heard him talking to Freddie Smith. She heard Freddie say, "So I charge high interest!' The gang resented Freddie. They called him Shylock because he demanded his pound of flesh for each penny loaned. Bud was really desperate if he would appeal to Freddie for a loan! Mrs. Olafson, the cleaning woman, came then and Donna went with her to the basement to give instructions. When she came back upstairs, Bud had his jacket on. He said, ''Mom, listen. I " And then Mrs. Olafson called from the basement. Donna went to the top of the stairs to 16 see what she wanted, and when she returned Bud was gone. She was extremely busy after that. She was in the presidency of the Relief Society, and she called the members of the luncheon committee in regards to the opening luncheon and social. At eleven she was going to the ward to quilt, and so she prepared an oven meal for dinner, but busy or not, all the time she was hurrying and working she worried about Bud. How would he handle the situation with Candy! Swe was quilting when she discovered her coin purse was missing. Marge Griffin asked if someone had change for a dollar. Donna said, "I have twenty dollars worth of change," and reached into her black leather bag. There was no coin purse. She began a frantic search, taking everything out of the large bag. Marge said, "Never mind. Sister Stacey has it.'' Donna said, "Oh fine."" And she sat there, a sinking feeling in the pit of her stomach, retracing her movements since the day before. She had gone to town and shopped. As she neared home she remembered that the cleaner would be returning Sheldon's slacks. She had stopped at Carter's grocery store and had the twenty dollar bill changed. She could remember hastily cramming the bills and _ small change into her large coin purse. The cleaner had driven up just as she stopped the car. She had paid him a dollar bill and forty cents. Then she had gone into the house, carried her handbag to the bedroom. Then Sister Landley had telephoned to ask the name of the poem that the stake Relief Society president had read at the monthly leadership meeting. Donna could see herself carrying the bag into the hallway, placing it on the table, and taking out the slip of paper on which she had written the name and author of the poem. She had left the bag there while she had checked a book of poems in the library to see if she had that particular poem. The purse was still on the hallway table until she left this noon. She thought, Bud would have seen it when he telephoned Freddie. The contents were tumbled about, the money quite visible in the transparent plastic coin purse. But Bud would never steal from me! She quickly pushed the thought out of her mind, horrified at such disloyalty. But where was the coin purse! Her handbag was one of the new, large carry-all type, with straps, open at the top. Her arms had been loaded with bundles. Maybe after she paid the cleaner she had thought she was dropping the coin purse into her handbag, but instead had dropped it on the ground. Sue hurried from the ward to her home, and once there she looked carefully from the curb to MOMENT OF TRUST the front steps but found nothing. And then, as she took her door key out of her handbag, she remembered seeing the plastic coin purse in her handbag when she had gone through the same motions the day before. Maybe, absent-mindedly, once she was in the house, she had put the purse somewhere else. She began a thorough search through drawers, coat pockets, jackets, cupboards, the linen closet. She pushed back her dark hair with a trembling hand. Maybe her memory was playing tricks. She could have thought she put the coin purse in her bag, but instead had left it at Carter's. She could even have paid the cleaner with loose change from the bottom of her handbag. She hurried out and walked the half block to the store. Mrs. Carter distinctly remembered her putting the coin purse in her bag. It had been a crazy hope. She had known all the time she had paid the cleaner with loose change from the coin purse in her handbag. She walked slowly home. Candy Thompson came towards her. Candy was so young and pretty with her glossy blond hair and blue eyes. "Mrs. Gardner," she said gaily, "will you please tell Bud to call for me at seven tonight? We're going to double date with Betty and Archie." "Tl tell him, Candy.' Donna smiled stiffly and hurried home, afraid she was going to burst into tears, remembering Bud saying 17 JANUARY 1964 desperately, "I've got to get five bucks somewhere!" But if he did succumb to temptation, he would only take five dollars, not the coin purse. But maybe there hadn't been time to do anything but grab the purse. Could he have hastily hidden it somewhere? She went to Bud's room. Her heart sank when she saw the closet in confusion, as if things had been hastily moved to find something, or to hide something. She had always respected her children's privacy, but now she searched everywhere for the purse, hating herself. Finally, trembling with exhaustion, she gave up, went to her room, and sank down on the bed. The evidence against Bud confronted her and she cried quietly. It was her fault Bud was a thief. She should have let him earn the money. The attic needed cleaning. There were any number of jobs he could have done. She heard the front door open and Bud's and Patti's voices. Should she accuse Bud? Or would he admit the theft on his own? What had he wanted to tell her this morning? She heard music. She walked slowly down the stairs. In the hallway below Bud was teaching Patti to dance, counting patiently, his big feet slowed to her small ones. Donna reached the foot of the stairs, her throat tightening. Patti cried, "Look, Mom, Bud is teaching me to dance!" 18 Bud laughed, "Me a dancing teacher!" How could he be so gay! Better get the matter over with now. She said thickly, "Bud, I want to talk to you."' He stopped dancing, "Yeah, Mom?" She began, "Bud, how could and then she looked at her son with his wide grin, with his clean freckled face, his honest face, and shame washed over her. Bud was not a thief! Even with all the evidence against him, she did not believe it! She knew then that this was the moment of trust that all parents know at least once in their lifetime. That moment when overwhelming evidence is cast aside in favor of love and trust and blind faith Bud asked, ''You sick or something, Mom? Got a headache? Want an aspirin?" She stammered, 'There isn't any. I have to "' She stopped. But there was a whole box of aspirin on her bedside table! She had had a headache and had made a quick trip in the car to Wight's drugstore just before she went to bed. She had taken her coin purse out of her bag, slipped it into the pocket of her coat! Her worry about Bud had completely driven the incident out of her mind. Her coat pocket was shallow. Could the purse have fallen out unnoticed on the seat? She turned and ran out the back door. Bud called, 'Mom! Where are you going? I want to tell you something important." She opened the car door, felt along the front seat, her hand trembling. It was when she opened the other door that she saw the coin purse. It had slipped off the end of the seat onto the floor next to the door. Fortunately, she hadn't had occasion to open that door or it would have fallen out. She _ leaned against the car, her legs shaking. "You lose something, Mom?" Bud was standing by the car. She looked up at her son, so tall and yet so young, so terribly vulnerable and _ impressionable. Yes, she had almost lost something precious. If she had failed that moment of trust in her son and had accused him, a bond between them would have been destroyed forever. Maybe Bud had borrowed the money from Freddie and it would take a year's allowance to pay it back, but Bud was not a thief! Bud said, ""Mom, I had to have the money for the dance, and I MOMENT OF TRUST knew you wouldn't give it to me." He grinned. "Old - brick - wall Mom. So I had to use the old brain, you know? I sold my track shoes to Skinny Peters. I almost tore the closet apart finding them. Hope it's okay?" Suddenly Donna's little world, which since yesterday had been spinning crazily, righted itself. Bud had got the money by his own ingenuity. She began to cry with relief. '"Well, gosh, Mom, I'd outgrown them!" Still she cried. "Mom, did I say something wrong? I mean, calling you a brick wall? I'm glad you and Dad are like a brick wall, and." "ft k-know and I'm h-happy you sold the sh-shoes and." "Then why are you crying? Gosh!" "Because I ]-love you and.' Bud shook his head. '""Women are sure dopey." "Especially mothers, Bud," she laughed shakily. "Especially mothers."? Miary Ex KNOWLES, Ogden, Utah, is well-known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine. Four of her prize-winning stories, as well as other contributions, have previously appeared in the Magazine. She has received recognition from several magazines of National circulation where her stories have been featured. She is a member of the Blue Quill writers' club in Ogden, and a former State President of the League of Utah Writers. After receiving the letter telling her about winning the first prize in the contest, Mrs. Knowles replied: "Since winning the first prize before (1961), many things have happened to me. In August of 1962 my wonderful husband died after a long illness.... Then the following January my dear father died.... But, of course, there is much to be grateful for, my three wonderful children, my adorable grandson and granddaughter, my good friends, and my good health." 19 Carol's Christmas Adelle Ashby quilt around her. She didn't turn the light on. The glare of it would add a sharpness to the night, a sharpness and an awareness with which she didn't want to have to cope. The hour was late, but it wasn't dark outside. The first snow of the season floated earthward, and the moon was bright. She watched the whiteness grow in depth on the boughs of the gnarled apple tree just outside the window and wanted to be out. She knew the coolness of the winter night would help her separate her thoughts, but she didn't get up. She just sat there, quietly, not wanting to wake Hal. She sat there, remembering his warning and remembering Michael's eyes. Michael's eyes bothered her most. It was too late for Hal's warning, but maybe it wasn't too late to do something about Michael. If she only knew what the look in his eyes was trying to tell her. Sometimes Carol thought he was enjoying the (| AROL sat up and pulled the 20 pre-Christmas festivities, but whenever she looked in his eyes, she knew he wasn't. And she wanted him to so very much. Sometimes he would look up and almost say something, but the words didn't come. Carol knew that part of the trouble was his loneliness for his parents, but there was something else... Something dark and deep. It was wrong to force a new kind of Christmas on him, Carol thought, and she could hear Doris say, "Honestly, Carol, you make so much of Christmas! There's no need to, you know.... No one does nowadays." Carol pulled the quilt up around her more snugly, and, in so doing, was reminded that even in the everyday things, she hadn't advanced much... Not by most standards, especially those set up by Doris. The bright patches of the quilt shone out in the path of moonlight that played across her bed. She loved the ties, the memories of long ago that the patches brought to her and she loved the old lace curtains in the living room, the doilies and the chairbacks on her furniture, and the braided rug in the hall.... So it was with Christmas at Carol's house. She and Hal had always made candy and gingerbread men, and poured wax candles, even before their six children came along. What was the word Doris had used? Quaint. "Quaint," Carol repeated aloud, and Hal stirred and let his breath out in little mumbles. AROL looked at him and smiled. "Dear Hal," she whispered, "you shouldn't spoil me so. If you didn't always let me have my own way, I would not get into some of the things I do." She slid down between the sheets and slipped into his arms. Then she remembered what he had said when she had asked him about taking Doris' children for Christmas. "Honey, you're asking for trouble." "Oh, Hal, really... It's just for two weeks. Doris and Jim will be back the 27th. And I can't enjoy Christmas knowing those three are going to be alone." "They wouldn't be alone. Grace offered to take them. As soon as Millie told me her mother was worse and she would have to go home for the holidays, I called Grace. Anyhow, it's more her place.... She is Doris' own sister, and youre." "I'm just their sister-in-law. I know, but they're your sisters, and vour nieces and Mike's your nephew -.. And it will be fun to give them a real Christmas. Besides, Grace CAROL'S CHRISTMAS " she hadn't finished, not out loud, but she said it to herself.. Grace is just like Doris... They would have the same kind of a Christmas with her... Pies from a bakery, cold cuts from the grocery, and the shimmering, aluminum Christmas tree with every blue bulb and every icicle in its proper place, and never the touch of a child. "Tt will just be too much," Hal had continued, "nine children! You must be out of your mind to think you can manage. Carol had giggled. "Nine children!" she mimicked.... "Six of them are ours, remember? Anyhow, I wish it were a dozen! Oh, Hal, I want Susan and Janet and Michael to have what we have, just for one Christmas. They've never made popcorn balls, or gone Christmas tree hunting... Or dipped candles. It will be so much fun to teach them." "Tt will be just plain work." "Will you mind?" "No, Carol, I won't mind, except that I don't want you to wear yourself out." "Then it's all settled. Anyway, the children know us better. Grace and Dave only get here once or twice a year. And I bet they'll be glad they won't have to make the long trip on the icy roads." Hal had put his hat on then, and as he bent to kiss her, he had said, "T don't know why you always have to take on the worries of the whole family, but it seems you do, so go ahead. Just remind me to remind my dear sister not to take a second honeymoon trip again unless they are sure they will be back before Christ- 21 JANUARY 1964 got the children, and everything had Susan and Janet had been having the time of their lives, with Carol's two girls their age, but Michael. - - - Carol went to sleep then, with Michael's dark, searching eyes swimming betore her. Tt next few days were SO full of laughter and wrapping and baking and sewing, have time to think. Right about all the children being 4 handful, but for the most part they They popped mountains of fluffy white corn and strung some of it on They made platters of rich, nutty fudge and crisp amber They glued yards of red and green pape strips together for chains, and several evenings they go around and see animated figures and bells and trees __ _ and everyone laughed and sang Christmas carols, and talked at hurt had grown too big. One evening she had Hal take some of the children shopping and 22 she put the little ones to bed. When the shoppets came home they went in separate rooms and shut the doors to wrap their treasures. They stuck more Santa seals on the packages than necessary, and used miles Carol went m. Hesitated to intrude, but she knew she had to. "Mike.. - 1 guess things are pret ty hectic around here, aren't they?" "Sorta * "Ts there something like to tell me?" "No C Carol looked at him and felt his word hang heavy in you would He didn't answet. He just cleared and she knew he was ~ "We used to C cut one ourselves, but they won't let us do that any more, SO we start out early and visit nearly every place in towm where they sell trees, and we stand HE stopped. She knew Michael was crying - - didn't go. Instead she went over to him and put her arm across the back of the couch behind him. "Mike, please, tell me. Are you homesick?" "Sorta." he let the tears come then, and wiped them on the back of his hand. "I'm sorry. Maybe Aunt Grace. "Aunt Carol, do you always buy a green tree?" "Yes." And then she remembered the trees Doris always bought.... "But we don't have to. I mean, we could buy a silver one, and get all blue bulbs and." "No, please get a green one. Aunt Carol, are green trees old-fashioned?" "T suppose they are ' "Is being old-fashioned bad?" "I I don't think so. Maybe in some things it is. I mean, it would be pretty silly to keep a horse and buggy when you can have a car or it wouldn't be wise not to take the best of the new things, and the best of the old things...." "Mom always says that you... That you make more work for vourself because you're old-fashioned...." "I guess I do." Carol thought of all the bread and rolls and cakes she always baked, and the quilt tops she stitched and the fruit she canned. "I guess your mother's right, it sure can complicate things, sometimes." "Aunt Carol." Michael wet his lips and began again. "Do you have a Star for the top of your tree?" "No anangel. An angel with long, silvery hair."? CAROL'S CHRISTMAS "Mom says that a star should always be on the top of the tree. We made a lot more work for you, didn't we?" "You mean by coming here? Goodness, no. I wanted you. Aunt Grace was coming for you, but I wouldn't let her." "Really?" "Really. I kinda thought. I hoped you'd like to make popcorn balls and ornaments and... But I guess all that is pretty silly, isn't al "Aunt Carol, may I hang a couple of bulbs on the tree?" "You may do more than that. Uncle Hal always puts the lights on and the children have to do the rest." "All of it? The icicles, too?" "Especially the icicles." "What if we get them all bunched up?" "Who cares? Looks pretty." "With them all bunched up?" "Especially when they re bunched up. AROL left the room then. She said it was time to bathe the other children, but she really had to leave because her throat was tight, and her voice wouldn't act as it should. Maybe it isn't right to rear a child without letting him decorate a tree, but it isn't right to confuse him, either, and that's what she knew she had done. Confused Michael, and filled him full of doubts and questions. Carol bathed the children and dressed them in soft flannel nightWe think it still 23 JANUARY 1964 clothes and brushed their hair, and wondered what was going on inside Michael. She wondered what he meant by asking about the star. The angel had been in her family for generations, but maybe having a star was important, though she couldn't see why. Long after everyone was tucked in for the night, and long after she should have fallen asleep, she lay wondering about it and then it came to her. The story of the Wise Men, and the story of the Christ Child. And, along with remembering the story, a shame came over her. Somehow she had become so involved with the cooking and the making, that she had forgotten. Quietly, she slipped out of bed and went into the living room and went over to the little table where she kept her books. She found the Bible and turned the pages, and there in the dimly lighted room, she turned to the Christmas story, and then went to Michael's room. He was sitting on the edge of his bed looking out into the night. "Michael...." Softly her words went to him, and he didn't move as he answered her. "What?" "T've been thinking. Know, about the star." "T have, too." "Would you like me to read the story to you?" "You don't have a Bible. I looked in your bookcase, and I couldn't find one. Aunt Carol, could we go get mine? Mom told me to be sure and read the story each night before bedtime like we do at home." "T have a Bible, Michael. Mike, you know about my being old-fashioned? Well, I guess I'm really not old-fashioned enough.... I had forgotten about the very first Christmas." Michael turned on the night light and took the book from Carol. "May I read it?" And as he read the words in hushed tones, Carol knew that it didn't matter what color the Christmas tree was, or if the candles were homemade. It didn't even matter if the children were allowed to put the icicles on the tree, so long as they knew what Christmas was for _ so long as they were told the story.. You New Serial to Begin in February A new serial YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING, by Hazel Thomson, of Bountiful, Utah, will begin in the February issue of the Magazine. The setting for the story is picturesque San Bernardino, California, in the early days of its settlement, and presents the dramatic development of Selena Baldwin from a frightened and fearful girl into a woman of strength and courage who contends valiantly against a comings. Hostile environment and her own shortMrs. Thomson is a gifted and experienced writer whose serial "Because of the Word" delighted the readers of the Magazine in 1961. 24 BELLE S. Spafford, General Presiident of Relief Society, and First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, represented Relief Society at the meetings of the National Council of Women of the United States, in New York City, in October. President Spafford delivered a keynote address at luncheon, on October 9th, in which she emphasized the duties of membership, saying, " we must see ourselves as a united body of women working together to serve society, equally responsible with our elected officers for the maintenance and _ success of the Council, unique among women's organizations." Mirs. Maria Goeppert Mayer, born in Germany, now an American citizen, shared the 1963 Nobel prize for physics ($51,158) with Dr. Eugene P. Wigner. The only woman besides Madame Curie (1903) to win the Nobel physics prize, Mrs. Mayer was honored for research showing that atomic nuclei are built of onionlike layers of neutrons and protons held together by complicated forces. Her theory has explained many nuclear properties. Irs. Maria Isabel de Atiles Moreu of Puerto Rico won the Lane Bryant individual award for volunteer service and was given $1,000 at the announcement meeting in New York City in November. The award was in recognition of Mrs. Moreu's work in establishing rehabilitation centers for handicapped children and adults. Mlle. Denise Legrix of France won the _ International Volunteer award for her fundraising campaign which resulted in the building of France's first orthopedic center for handicapped children. VWALENTINA Tereshkova, the Soviet cosmonette and first woman in the world to make a space flight married, on November 2, 1963, Soviet Cosmonaut Andrian Nikolayev, in one of Moscow's two "'palaces of marriage."' Valentina expects to make more difficult space flights in the future. A FEW women, for the first time in history, will be added to the very special group of men permitted to attend the Ecumenical Council of the Catholic Church as lay auditors or delegates, Pope Paul VI has announced. 25 VOLUME 51 JANUARY 1964 | TT s* i: yr = Fi gt ew ~ a if Y ire i Ci. Es a Pm 2 es _. Om, ' oh ey f, y) 7 ' if y; / ' } A" 1 / ir The work of the Lord among the Lamanites must not be postponed, if we desire to retain the approval of God. Thus far we have been content simply to baptize them and let them run wild again, but this must continue no longer; the same devoted effort, the same care in instructing, the same organization of priesthood must be introduced and maintained among the house of Lehi as amongst those of Israel gathered from gentile nations. As yet, God has been doing all, and we comparatively nothing. He has led many of them to us, and they have been baptized, and now we must instruct them further, and organize them into churches with proper presidencies, attach them to our stakes, organizations, etc. In one word, treat them exactly, in these respects as we would and do treat our white brethren. (Gospel Kingdom, page 247). These words of President John Taylor, in 1882, are seeing fulfillment today, and, in the instructing, Relief Society women may and are taking a prominent part. The Nephite prophets loved the Lamanites. Enos plead with the Lord that if the Nephites were destroyed and the Lamanites survived, that the Lord would preserve the record of the Nephites ''that it might be brought forth at some future day unto the Lamanites, that, perhaps, they might be brought unto salvation." Then Enos said, after the Lord covenanted with him to do so ''wherefore my soul did rest."' If mothers in Zion today would have their souls rest, they will heed the teachings of The Book of Mormon and extend toward the Lamanites that charity which never faileth. Our prophets today reveal that now is the time for loving service and guidance to the Lamanites. This generation has been offered this blessing. Relief Society has been asked to be an advocate of the Indians — to foster enlightenment to Indian women, to assist, work with, and encourage them both by teaching and training them. But, as the gift without the giver is bare, so Relief Society members must do all they do in the spirit of true charity. One will recall the wonderful promises made to the Lamanites and strive humbly to be instrumental in the Lord's hand to assist in preparing the Lamanites for their 26 ff iAlile & imo T ie ret resales i mations C Pisses Tire Ouro Nite * Ute ae Set ome Colivesey ucts Pazar, Sere tary reestine; great joy as they assist their Lamanite sisters, extending the hand of sisterhood and love to them. Receive the Gospel, and they will 80 forth and build the New Jerusalem, and we shall heip them. (Journal of Discourses, 15:282). TOSS TTSD Z)) e mh 9) 7) =~ e) my = 9) n C 2. 00000000000000090000009000000000000090000000000000000006 Bound Volumes of 1963 Magazines Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1963 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret New Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.75, leather $4.20, including the index. A limited number of 1963 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1963 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. The New March of Dimes Fight Birth Defects -Fight Arthritis The National Foundation Your March of Dimes and dollars are now working harder than ever. There are more than seventy March of Dimes Centers in fifty-one cities across the United States. Typical of such centers are the Birth Defects Special Treatment Center at the L. D. S. Primary Children's Hospital in Salt Lake City, Utah, and the Juvenile Arthritis Special Treatment Center at the University of Utah. In these centers each working day finds dedicated, skilled men and women continuing the fight against Birth Defects that strike a newborn child in America every other minute of the day, and against the Nation's Number One Crippler — Arthritis, which now afflicts eleven million Americans. In our fight against Birth Defects, your March of Dimes contributions are also supporting a broad range of studies to determine why Birth Defects and Arthritis occur, how they may be prevented, and the best means for correcting disease and disability. Despite polio's headlong rush to oblivion, thanks to the Salk and Sabin vaccines which you literally bought and paid for through the March of Dimes, there are still many partially or completely paralyzed victims who need help and further rehabilitation. Give to the 1964 March of Dimes and your treatment centers will be able to continue in their search for hope and help for the child born less than perfect. Give generously to your 1964 March of Dimes. 28 Ve. Hazel K. Todd Wri strange anticipation the welldressed young woman stood alone in the falling snow before the old house in the trees. She had come through the sagging gate, down the snow-filled path where, as a child, her dancing feet had sped. The taxi that had brought her from the airport was rapidly disappearing into the white mist down the country road, taking with it the driver who had raised an eyebrow questioningly as he deposited her expensive luggage at the porch. But how could he know by looking at the old house sleeping there, of the Christmas warmth it had held within its ancient walls! The woman stared at the great carved door. How could she hope to find the something of Christmas she had lost, that used to be here in this silent old house! For the parents who had brought her here as a child were gone, and the grandparents who had hung the great tree with tinsel and angels were gone, too, these twelve years. And she, Joan Mason, an_accomplished dress designer and owner of the old house, alone, was left. For a minute she turned and stared back the way she had come. But the taxi had already disappeared in the mist of falling snow. Slowly she opened her purse and fumbled Fite PR ATA EAT aU STM. " ayo Cems. A wee "Lease fo y Srieh tase in it to bring out an ancient key tied with a red string. For a few seconds she gazed thoughtfully at it and then she fitted it into the black lock of the door. It turned easily with the generations of years of experience behind it. The door swung open and she stepped inside. Standing there with her back to the door, her eyes traveled expectantly over the old familiar things as if already the lost essence should sing out, "You are here! At last I am found!" But they were silent, the things she had known, the red plush sofa, the bookcase with its glass doors and its rows of books, the elaborately framed pictures of her ancestors on the wall, the mantel where she had hung her Christmas stockings long ago. In the great fireplace wood lay unkindled. With a warm tingle of old familiarity she turned to the carved bird on the mantel with its match-filled wings. In a few minutes the fire was blazing comfortably. She had hung her wraps in the hall closet and put away the groceries that she had bought in the village on the way. Now she sat before the fire in the old rocking chair where her grandmother had rocked. 29 JANUARY 1964 Vinson would be surprised if he could see her here. She went over again the words she had scribbled so hurriedly on a sudden impulse: Dear Vinc, I won't be able to go on the house party. I hope you'll forgive me. I've gone to find something of Christmas I had once and lost. —Joan She never would have thought of writing the note or of coming, if the letter hadn't arrived in the mail yesterday morning from the Grays, the aged couple who were the caretakers of the old home that had come to her as an inheritance from her grandparents. The letter had simply stated that an unexpected opportunity had come for them to spend the winter in Arizona, and they were enclosing the key. In all the years the old place had belonged to her she had paid no heed to it, except for the checks she mailed for its maintenance. But yesterday, when she opened the letter, the key with the red string unleashed a stream of memories that rushed and tumbled over each other until she wept softly into the folds of the scarf in her hands. She saw her grandfather placing the great log on the fire. She danced around the Christmas tree while they hung it with wonderful treasures from an old brown box, candles with real fire, popcorn, and homemade chains. And the star at the top, a great silver star painted on a smooth board and wound with tinsel and beads. And her grandmother had wrapped it and unwrapped it very carefully each year, because, as she had explained to Joan (who was Joanna then), it represented the 30 Baby Jesus when he was born in Bethlehem. So deep in the midst of clamoring memories was she, that the knocking at the door might well have been her grandfather, his arms filled with the Yule log, demanding admittance. As in a dream, Joan rose and started across the room. Then she halted. This was not her grandfather! Someone to see the Grays. She was about to return to her chair when the knock came again. It roused a curious impulse, and she found herself at the door looking down into the small, heart-shaped face of a child. She was a quaint little girl with long dark braids hanging from a queer little knitted cap with a peaked top. She wore a long gray coat and heavy overboots. In her mittened hand she carried a brightcolored sand pail that might have been from a different world. At sight of Joan the child's brow puckered in a puzzled expression, and she brushed her free hand over her cheek in an odd little mannerism. Joan looked at the child with curiosity. At least this was something new and different. "Won't you come in?" she asked, still holding the door. The child hesitated. "But where is Mrs. Gray? I wanted her to help me find the star." Joan looked at the bucket, wonderingly. "I am very sorry," she said, "Mrs. Gray isn't here any more." The child's face fell. For a moment Joan thought she was going to cry. Quickly she tried to make amends. "Perhaps — perhaps I could help you." She looked at the bucket again. "Did you say a ster?" The little face brightened hopefully, and she smiled. "Oh, didn't you know about the asked in deep surprise. Then, when Joan still looked puzZled, she added so very earnestly, "You know, the Christmas Star, the Jesus. Star. Mrs. Piney says that People have lost the Star because they don't remember Jesus any more." Joan stood a moment staring at the child without saying anything. "She says it must be found again," the little gir] continued, oo a Suppose it must," Joan whispered slowly, "What did you say?" "Oh, you must be cold," she said, brushing the snow from the peaked cap and the ong coat. "Please come in and sit y the fire. Let me take your coat and cap." The little girl sat on the low stoo] where she, herself, had sat so many times long ago. She placed the bucket carefully on the lap of her brown dress. "What — what were you going to do with the star?" Joan asked with her eyes on the bucket. The child looked up quickly with frank blue eyes. "If I had a Christ. Mas tree I would hang it at the tiptop where everyone could see it." Joan struggled with the strange emotions inside her. She gazed at the little girl in wonder, while she searched carefully for words. But THE Lost STAR She could find none appropriate. "I guess it must have tumbled from the sky," the little girl went on, completely unaffected by Joan's silence. "It must be in the fields. But Mrs, Piney is so old She could not walk in the snow. But you will go!" she finished brightly. Joan looked out the window. The white dusk was gathering. The short winter day would soon be Over. The snow was falling steadily with thick white flakes. What did you do with a strange child with some long-ago charm who wanted you to go in the snow some place to hunt for an imaginary star that had fallen from the sky because people had ceased to think of Jesus! Piney will not 80 to sleep tomorrow." "Who is Mrs. Piney?" "She takes care of me. She cooks the food and sews my dresses." Joan looked over the drab brown dress buttoned under her chin, at the bulky Stockings, and the oldfashioned coat She had hung over the chair by the fire. Her mind drew a vivid picture of Mrs. Piney and played: 31 JANUARY 1964 "Oh, I will come tomorrow!" said the child happily. Then again there was a knock. A half-fearful, startled look crossed the little girl's face, and she turned her stool with her back to the door. Joan arose and walked to the door, half expecting some unreal person to be standing there. It was a man, tall and lean. Yet in his face were the same frank blue eyes as those of the little girl. At sight of her he looked surprised and lifted his snowy hat, displaying dark hair grayed at the temples. "TI beg your pardon," he said apologetically, "but I was looking for a little girl. She comes over here occasionally, even though I have told her she must not bother the Grays." Joan looked at the man, her mind filled with questions. There was no sound from the little girl even though Joan was sure she must have heard. There were drawn _ lines about the man's eyes and mouth, and Joan thought she detected a hint of bitterness about him. She stepped back from the door. "Please come in," she said. "The Grays are in Arizona. I own this place and I came to — to see about it,' she finished lamely. He entered and she saw him stiffen slightly. "There you are, Mitzie," he said quite sharply. "Why did you run away when Mrs. Piney was asleep?" The little girl began to cry then, sobbing, with her tiny face buried in the skirt of her brown dress. "You must come with me at once," the man said quite sternly, crossing to her. 32 Even though the present dilemma was no concern of hers, Joan felt desperately the urge to do something. She put out her hand instinctively. "Please," she said, "do not scold her." And then her face flushed. "I mean, Mitzie was certainly no bother." "She knows she must not run away," the man said, taking her by the hand. "But, Daddy, I wanted to find the star!" Mitzie wept, standing and clinging to her father's leg. Fle put his hand on her head. "Mitzie, you must stop talking such nonsense." He turned to Joan. "I am away a lot," he said. "The woman who takes care of her is old and sentimental." Mitzie let go his leg and held her face in her hands. But he was holding her coat, and she ceased her crying and put her arms resignedly into the sleeves. Joan stood by, confused with the strange drama she had so suddenly found herself a part of, and yet there was something.... "IT was thinking," she said, staring at the child in her quaint coat and cap, and then at the man, "that — that perhaps, you, too, have lost the star!" He looked at her with sort of a quizzical weariness. For a moment he hesitated, and then he walked to the door, holding Mitzie's hand. He turned then, with a half-bitter smile flicking the corners of his mouth. "Mitzie's mother died," he said, "seven years ago on Christmas Eve, the night Mitzie was born." They went out the door, then, into the mist. Mitzie turned slightly, and, for 4 brief moment, looked at Joan with a half-pleading, sad eXpression on her tear-streaked face. And then the door closed on them and the snowy night, and they were gone. For a time Joan stood staring at the door. What a paradox! She had come two thousand miles here to find something that was to be peace and serenity, joy and thanksgiving. Instead, she had met @ Jonely little girl and a man, bitter and miles away from his own child, a child who wished for a Christmas tree on which to hang the Jesus star. Suddenly an idea came surging over her, like a light, along the path of old memoriesWhy not make a Christmas for Mitzie! A huge sparkling tree with candles and popcorn and paper chains! The old brown box! Where was it! And the star, the silver star with the tinsel and beads! Mitzie's star! Burning with excitement, she raced from one corner of the old house to the other, digging in closets and cupboards and drawers until she found the box in the cubby hole at the top of the stairs. With her heart drumming at her ribs, she lugged it down the stairs to the middle of the old parlor floor before the fire. How she cried over each golden treasure, unwinding long chains of paper and_ tinsel, bright cherub, laughing with delight at the glass birds and the tinkling bells. Happily she gazed over the room, mentally setting UP the tree, hanging it with splendor. Her eyes rested for a second on the old organ, and she rushed to it and sat down on the worn velvet bench. From THE LOST STAR one old carol to another she sang while a tender peace settled about her. She came to the words, "Star of the East, oh, Bethlehem Star." Her fingers paused. Her foot ceased to pump the old bellows. The Star! The Star that meant losing yourself for others. Yes; it was the star that she had lost! But she had found it! She leaned her head down on the ivory keys and wept tears of sweet release. So, all the next day she worked and listened for the knock that would She refused to accept the possibility that she would not be able to come. But noon passed and the wind came up, blowing the loose snow ito drifts. She saw it through the window, piling along the fence beyond the apple trees. She went outside and let the wind whip at her, trying to imagine in which direction Mitzie could live. The early winter dusk was settling. There was not time to wait longer. She must call a taxi. She had barely retraced her steps into the house and reached the phone when the knock came. With her heart racing in anticipation, she hurried to the door. But it was not Mitzie. It was Mitzie's father, standing there in the blowing snow, with the bitter lines on his face, tightened. "[m sorry, he said, "to bother you again. But Mitzie slipped away while I was gone. You see I let Mrs. Piney 8° home this morning, and I just realized today that she had done nothing about Mitzie's Christmas." He looked away into the snow. "T have never been 33 JANUARY 1964! Id & quick] We must find her. It is Much too hasn't Worrying you a ut the colq Where can look?" Star again. He can't seem to get a It out of her Mind." SO Cit was a hopeless task, Wading Was the only through the fields in Place she could be. | Was sure " Joan felt ]; i d face €ach oth: 'nto the room a dhe eo "We ould cal] the police from Stared in amazement. Your home. T is nearer than Mine," "It was for Mitzie," She said. "Th he said. Star at the top of the tree. Jt; er star Wind, hey saw / > 4, too, had lost Itzie Standing there. She was te star, lost It in a whir] of parties 8azing at the Silver star at the top and night clubs, and making mon_ of the tree. Ey, and friends who didn't kn Ww they came y+ Shing forward true Values, and. " She Paused sha turned to hem, her face alight and wiped the tears from her eyes. Wit rapture, completely unaware "Mitzie helpe me find it And of the anxiety sh ha Caused Wanted her to have it, too, a rea] " Ook!" she cried, "The far! I hay, Christmas Such as she h never found the Jesus Star! It IS on th nown." top of your tree!" "Yes, Mitzie, darling " her father Sur dropped into the rocker an said in p nitent tones, as he gent] Put her head On the acy doily of took the sand pail fro her hand the arm and wept and set jt the He stood meekly before her holdt Ing his hat " e el, °4n reached for the other hand t adequate father " t is the star we had al] three Jost @ child eye, had. Ave let my Mitzie. But uly it jg Only the Own selfish 8tief deny her both faPicture of jt. He real] Jesus star is er and mother." "Fy esitated. Ji, People's hearts," "Las night J kept thinking of what "And we will keep it there for. You said about my losing the star ever," Mitzie's father Said. Nd I realized you were Tight, so 7 hen he Walked to the doorwa let Mrs. Piney 8° home fo, Christand taking the Sprig of mistletoe mas, and | €cided to Make Mitzie from j " he Carried it back to han a real Christmas " it from danglin Joan Was Wiping her eyes 8 Christmas bell ' OVer their heads. 34 What Is a Work Meeting Leader? Sylvia Lundgren = the innocence of youth and the dignity of mature sisters, we find the delightfully blessed lady called the work meeting leader. Work meeting leaders come from various backgrounds, but all have the same possibilities to teach, inspire, and uphold the standards of the Relief Society and the home, and to enjoy every hour spent in planning and executing the plans, and to protest only with new ideas when one work meeting is completed and the next one comes into view. Work meeting leaders are found everywhere — in department stores, variety stores, antique shops, supermarkets, attics, basements, back yards, kitchens, and even in city dumps. They are planning, always planning how to inspire all members to use their own talents and make the most out of what they have. Presidents love them, counselors counsel with them, chairmen work with them, and husbands and children wonder what they are doing with all that junk. 35 JANUARY 1964 Cauty with 4 Creative ind, Wisdom with NSers — the hope of the Relief Soci ty, with SCissors needles and thread jn her Pockets, When she Ses long-range Plans, her Relief 5 lety is active and happy with their 4Ccomplishmen Ss, but whe She plan for nly one Month, an Maybe tha Just before work meeting, she is Not successfy] and Relief Society Spirit begins to ] work meeting leader Is q Composite. She has 4M appetite for Work. Meeting luncheons, the disposition of an angel, the cy; aboratory, the "GIy @f an atomic bom} | esigner, the enthusj Osity of a Tesearch > the imaginat: thusiasm Of a fj ing she draws o UP their own € is not enthy a Magica] Creature. She has the Privilege "Se any and al] Who have talent. She c | can be Teached in no Other Way. Sh fee] needed | ave, your Tength and Piaytime Hecipes the Ho rissce an Janet W. Breeze Teacuinc a child the joy of creativity can be even more rewarding if "raw" materials are used. Paint and clay can be purchased in a store, but it is much more fun to see how they are made. The following "kitchen-type" craft materials can be stored to use another time. Put the finger paint and the soap bubbles in small jars, and the play dough in a plastic bag. Finger Paint 2 c. Laundry starch (or flour) 1 c. Soap flakes (neither detergents nor soap powders will do) Water to make a thick, slippery consistency. Color with either poster paint or food coloring. Use on wet, non-absorbent paper. Real finger paint paper is slick on one side. Glazed shelf paper can be used and so can oilcloth. One advantage of oilcloth is that it can be washed and used again. Homemade finger paint requires periodic thinning with water. Play Dough 1 c. Flour 2% c. Salt 1 tsp. Powdered alum (preferable) Or 1 tbsp. Salad oil as a binder Food coloring added to enough water to make desired pliable consistency. Knead as you would bread dough until workable. Soap Bubbles Add % c. Liquid dishwashing detergent to % c. Water Carefully stir in 1 tbsp. Sugar (try to avoid suds.) Bubbles are blown by dipping straws, empty thread spools, or funnels, into the mixture to obtain a film over the opening. The last inch of a straw can be cut vertically into fours, making it possible to blow larger bubbles. Lee) sf 37 Har Huggers Are Nice Shirley Thulin IF your little girl has lost her warm ear-hugging hat, you can make this attractive one to replace it. Little girls love these hats, and they are ideal to wear with a pony tail. You can make one from felt, wool, or corduroy. If you use wool or corduroy, you will have to hem or bind the edges. You will need two pieces of material each about 16 inches long and four inches wide, some bright metallic or colorful rickrack for the trim, and two ties abcut 10 inches long. To make a pattern to guide your cutting, make a line 16 inches long on heavy paper. Find the center of the line and make a mark. Four inches straight up from this mark, make another mark (Figure 1). 16" Figure 1 38 EAR HUGGERS ARE NICE Figure 2 Now, starting from one end of the 16-inch line, draw a rounded line curving up from the end to the center mark (Figure 2). Make another rounded line from the center mark to the other end of the 16-inch line. To be sure it is the same as the first curved line, it would be best to fold the paper in half and check. Seam along top, joining front and back sections Figure 3 You will now have a semicircle with the base 16 inches long, and four inches through at the widest part (Figure 3). You will need two of these semi-circle pieces, one for the back of the hat and one for the front. Figure 4 Make four small darts in the back piece on the straight edge to shape the back of the head (Figure 4). The two center darts should be two inches long and about % inch deep, two outside darts, one inch long and \% inch deep. The darts should be about 34 inch apart. How to make seam: Machine stitch the two pieces (front and back pieces) together along the rounded edge, then stitch the trim all around the straight edges. Now make the two ties and stitch one to each end. The ties can be yarn, braided, or bias tape, or a string made of the same material the hat is made from. To trim the hat, you can make it as simple or as fancy as you wish. Just a single row of rickrack does nicely, or you can use lace, angora yarn, several rows of metallic trim, or even a leftover piece of fur. 38 Part IV-Dried Beans Marion Bennion, Ph. D. Chairman, Department of Food and Nutrition Sadie O. Morris, Ph. D. Department of Food and Nutrition Brigham Young University Dried beans and peas have been old friends to many homemakers for years. They have found them a bargain — an inexpensive source of protein, calories, B vitamins, and iron. The addition of a little meat or cheese to bean dishes makes the protein even better quality. The water lost in the ripening and drying of beans must be replaced in soaking and cooking and this process has required hours of time. In this day of busy time schedules the modern homemaker has sometimes found this inconvenient. However, at the present time there are many short cuts which may be used to decrease the time required in preparation. A rapid method of soaking beans is to start by boiling them in water to cover for two minutes, removing from heat and letting covered pan stand one hour. The beans are then ready to cook in the water used for soaking. When hard water only is available the cooking time may be reduced by adding a small amount of baking soda to the soaking water. Do not use more than % tsp. Baking soda per pint of water. Larger amounts will cause the beans to be soft and mushy and will reduce the nutritive value. For one cup of small red or pinto beans, use about 3 cups of soaking water. After soaking add one tsp. Salt and boil gently about two hours. The use of a pressure saucepan for cooking at 15 lb. Pressure after soaking will reduce cooking time to 5-10 minutes. If a pressure saucepan is used only 2 cups of water are required in the soaking process and no soda should be added. If the beans tend to form a great deal of foam during cooking, a tablespoon of drippings or other fat added to the cooking water should prevent this. After the beans have been cooked they may be used in a variety of dishes. 40 Dry Bean Recipes SAVORY BEANS AND MEAT BALLS 1 lb. Ground beef 14, c. Finely cut onion 22 ¢. Evaporated milk 24 c. Bread crumbs 114 tsp. Salt \% tsp. Chili powder Y& tsp. Pepper 1 tbsp. Shortening 14 c. Finely cut onion 2 c. Baked beans 14, c. Catsup 2 tbsp. Brown sugar 14 tsp. Dry mustard Mix meat well with onion, milk, bread crumbs, and seasoning. Wet hands and shape into 12 balls. Brown meat balls in shortening and finely cut onion. Spoon off any drippings around meat balls in skillet. Add mixture of baked beans, catsup, brown sugar, and mustard. Cover and cook over low heat for 10 minutes. Makes 4 servings. BAKED BEANS 2 cups pinto or other dried beans 14, pound salt pork 1 medium onion 1 tsp. Salt 14 c. Molasses % tsp. Dry mustard 1 tbsp. Sugar Wash beans and discard imperfect ones. Cover with 6 cups of water, boil 2 minutes, cover and soak 1 hour before cooking. Cook in soaking water until tender, about 2 hours, covered. During last 45 minutes of cooking add salt pork. Drain and pour beans and salt pork into baking pan. Bring drained liquid to boiling point and add salt, molasses, mustard, and _ sugar. Pour mixture over beans and add enough more water to cover beans. Cover pan and bake 3 hours at 300° F. Then uncover and bake % hour more. Serves 6. CHILI 2 tbsp. Bacon drippings Y% ¢c. Chopped onion 14 lb. Ground beef 214 c. Cooked dry beans % ¢. Minced pepper 2-214 cups canned tomatoes 1 bay leaf, crushed 2 tbsp. Sugar 3-5 tsp. Chili powder salt and pepper Brown onion in drippings. Add meat and cook slowly for a few minutes, stirring occasionally. Add remaining ingredients, season, and simmer until meat is tender and flavors are blended, about 30 minutes. Serves 4. BEANS AND BACON CASSEROLE 3 c. Cooked dry beans 1 c. Canned tomatoes 2 tbsp. Chopped green pepper 34, ce. Chopped onion 14 tsp. Salt 14 tsp. Chili powder garlic salt 4 strips bacon, fried, but not crisp Combine all ingredients except bacon. Turn into greased baking dish. Arrange bacon strips over top. Bake at 350° F. For 1 hour. Serves 4. 4] JANUARY 1964 Delia Gleed's Hobby Is Making Gifts Dewi Bowcutt Gleed, Malad, Idaho, is so versatile and so busy with her needle and her crochet hook that she is known to Relief Society and to her fully cuts and sews. In addition to her duties as work meeting leader, Mrs. Gleed has served for many years as a faithful and beloved visiting teacher. 42 Why would she do such a thing?" Ben demanded after Pixie and Tutu had left the room. "Why would my little daughter want to look like that!"' Luana smiled, wistfully. '""She's fifteen, darling," she said. '""Have you forgotten how it is to be fifteen? How you yearned to attract a special girl?" "T wouldn't have looked at a girl with hair like that!" he stormed. "Of course not,'' Luana agreed. "Pixie didn't want hair that color. She tried to be a honey-blond, and turned out to be an orange one." "Her own hair is_ pretty enough," he came back fiercely. "She's the cutest girl on the whole island. She looked like a little princess when she danced with Phil at the Gala Room." His voice was calmer. "I was so proud of them, Luana... Fine, upright children — natural as the sunshine."' "T know," she answered, ''but try to understand why she did it, Ben. There is a boy she wants to notice her. He is attracted to a pretty blond." "Then he isn't the right boy for her," he interrupted. "She can attract her own kind in her own way. She is pretty enough." Luana nodded, but her eyes did not quite agree with him. "Yes her own shade of hair is best for her. It is for any girl. But we must help her in other ways, darling. She must have braces on her teeth this year." Ben paced back and _ forth across the room. At last he stopped before Luana. "Do you think I haven't thought of that?" he questioned. "We'll get the braces, if I have to sell the plantation to the corporation." 43 JANUARY 1964 "No — not that!"' Luana said. "This plantation is our home. I don't want you to work under pressure. I want to live here always. I want to make our living here." Ben bent his head. He was quiet for a moment. When he looked at her again, his eyes were steady and confident. "We'll get along," he said. ""We always do, sweetheart. I'll talk to Pixie now." Luana touched his cheek. "Be gentle with her. She loves you dearly and wants to please you." His brows puckered together, thoughtfully. "T want to say something that will make her realize that it's not the color of her hair that wins love — it's what she radiates — it's what she really is." "She needs to know that," Luana said, ''but now — we must do something about her hair. We could take her to a good beauty salon." "Could they change it to her own color?" he asked, hopefully. "T think so. They retouch it some way, but it's expensive," she added. "It won't break us," he smiled, "but she needs a lesson. Something that will remind her that mistakes cost money sometimes." "How about making her pay for it out of her baby-sitting money? She has been saving for a camping trip." "That's it!"' Ben said. "'Call the beauty salon and see if they can take her right away. I'll drive her there. I don't want anyone to see her with hair like that!" 44 THE twins were up at five o'clock on their birthday. They came romping to Luana's and Ben's bedroom, their ruddy faces glowing with joy. "Look, Mama," Benjy whispered, snuggling his face against hers. '""'We're thirteen, Mama. Are you awake?" "Yes, dear," Luana answered, as she pulled Bo down beside her, too. "Happy birthday, my darlings." "Can we start on the picnic early?" Bo asked. ''We told Sam Henri and Hiki and all the others we invited that we would start at six." Luana sat up. "Well! That is early. You boys take your swim right away. Then you can help with the lunch. Let's see — we decided on peanut butter and coconut sandwiches and big red apples...." "And tuna sandwiches, too," Bo added. "And bananas and grapes so Toki can eat, too," Benjy said. "That's right," Luana agreed. "Toki is part of our family now. We'll need a big jug of poi and potato chips." "And one of our birthday cakes," Bo chimed in. "'We have two cakes, Mama." "Yes — we'll have the other one for our family. You remember that Daddy likes our family dinner after party guests have gone home." "Are we having a luau, too, Mama?" Bo wanted to know. "Not a real luau," she explained. "Our pig will be roasted in the roaster — not cooked under the ground on hot coals." "Oh, sure," he laughed. "TI remember."' "Y wonder what I'll get for my birthday?" Benjy mused out loud. Bo looked at him, disdainfully. "Come on, dopey!" he yelled as he dashed toward the lagoon. Luana watched them as they ran through the sky-blue jacarandas and the brilliant pink flowers that were opening their petals in the early sunshine. Everything is so fresh and alive, she thought. She drew a long breath, loving the fragrance of the flowery, sweet-smelling morning. She could see the dazzling blue sky and the bright blue water of the lagoon reflecting the great white cotton-puff clouds drifting lazily against the sun. This was her own picture of paradise, she told herself with a long rapturous sigh. This was morning on the Pacific, on the long blue swells that washed the shores of the Hawaiian Islands. Midnight, moonlight, and bluevelvet twilight were equally entrancing, she thought, remembering that she had chosen early dawn for her own painting. That is when the wind kisses the waves and they linger breathlessly for that kiss. She had named _ her painting "Kiss of the Wind." It was more than a title. It meant her love for all that was dear to her — for all that Hawaii had given to her — her family, her home, her friends. "Thank you, dear Heavenly Father," she murmured as she turned from the window and hurried to the kitchen. KISS OF THE WIND By six o'clock they were ready for the drive to the rolling hills only three miles away. It was an ideal place for a picnic, with a broad valley view. Philip led the party in his own jeep. Benjy and Bo were with him. Ben followed, with the rest of the family in the station wagon. They were to meet their guests at the valley-top. When they arrived at Hill Slope, they parked their cars beside the fields of yellow poppies. Margaret stood _ entranced. "Such color!" she exclaimed. "It is an artist's duty to give this glory to the world!" "Tt is indeed!"' Tutu said. "Each place seems lovelier than the last one," Margaret went on. "T can't decide which to choose. But I must do so soon." "There's a good view of Haleakala, the world's largest extinct volcano," Ben told her. "There — to your right." "Oh, yes! It must be thousands of feet to the rim," she said. "Ten thousand,"' Ben answered. "We will take you there before you leave. But now — let's picnic!" Soft cool air floated over them as they started up the valley. "What long grass!' Margaret called out. ''And so green!" Benjy and Bo were far up the valley with their young friends. Luana could hear them laughing and whistling to each other. When she heard a loud whooping and yelling, she knew they had reached the first big hau tree — one that would be just right for climbing and swinging. 45 JANUARY 1964 When the rest of them reached the big tree, the children were completely hidden in its tangled, leafy branches. They climbed like monkeys, laughing and calling to each other until they reached the _ tiptop branches. Then each of them straddled a long limber branch and came swooping down with a wild yell that echoed across the valley. "Try it, Aunt Margaret!" Benjy came running to her after he landed on the grass. '""Mama did once. It doesn't hurt. Does it, Mama?" Luana laughed. "Once is enough!" she said. "That's a good sport for sturdy boys. Not ladies. Let Aunt Margaret wait until we make our slide. That's thrilling enough for girls." "It sure is," Emma Lu spoke up. "I haven't done anything that crazy for three years." "Let me take Toki up the tree, Emma Lu," Benjy coaxed. "He'll like it." "He's happy right here on my shoulder," she said. ''He might get lost in those branches." "Yes — he might,' Benjy agreed with a reluctant shrug. "He sure might." A\FTER the second ride in the hau tree they started up the trail again. As they walked along, each gathered ti leaves. They were long shiny leaves that grew close to the ground. Ben, who was walking ahead of the others, called back that he had found a place for the slide. He was standing near a smooth grassy hillside with an incline 46 that was not too steep. "That's a sissy slide," Bo protested. "This is steep enough," Ben insisted. "And not too steep for Tutu." He looked meaningly at his twin boys. "We must remember that it was Tutu who taught us how to slide this way. When she was younger she could take the steeper slides. Now she needs an easy, gentle slope like this. I'll go first, to smooth the grass. Then we'll let Tutu slide after me, because they go faster as each one goes down. Phil — help me carry Tutu." They crossed hands and made a carriage for Tutu. She put an arm around each of their shoulders, and off they went up the hillside. When they reached the top of the hill, Ben sat down on his ti leaves. He pulled the long stalks up in front of him. Then he moved himself forward until he began to slide down the hillside through the tall, wet grass. He waited at the bottom of the hill so he could catch Tutu. "That was fun!" she laughed. "Try it, Margaret. It's getting slicker now." Margaret's ride was faster than Tutu's. A little wet pool of mud was forming at the bottom of the slide. By the time it was Luana's turn, the grass was packed down and very slippery. "Slick as a ski hill!" Luana laughed as Ben caught her at the bottom. "Your turn, Emma Lu." "Not me! The Mainland has made a sissy out of me," she called out. JANUARY 1964 gled Banner," and tears glistened in Margaret's eyes as she looked from one face to another, Hawaiian, Japanese, Filipino, Chinese, and Haole. "Such devotion,' she murmured. ''All Americans," Luana answered. "They know all five verses. Listen!" As the sun turned coral in the west, they went happily homeward. Philip led the way. They were still singing as they rode down the valley road. Gaity colored lanterns were lighted in the garden, where the table was set for the birthday cake. There were thirteen candles for each boy. Family presents were piled high on _ two little tables beside the big one. Benjy jumped for joy when he saw his new steel guitar. He gave everyone a hug and a kiss. But Bo was very quiet as he unwrapped his large painting set. Luana, watching him closely, wanted him to be pleased with it. She hoped he would understand that they had given him an expensive set because they appreciated his talent and wanted him to develop it. His fingers moved across the pallet, then he carefully lifted each tube of paint and each box of crayons. He felt the quality of the drawing paper. At last he looked at Luana and Ben and his blue eyes were luminous. "Thanks," he said in a quiet voice. "How did you know I. Wanted this?" "We know what you need," 48 Luana answered. 'You have a wonderful talent, Bo. We are so glad you are pleased with your present." "It's — the — greatest!" he said with a kind of rapture in his eyes. "Anybody home?" a_ strong, manly voice called from the lanai. Everyone turned to greet Elder Farnsworth, the branch _president. He was a tall, slender, kindly man with gray hair streaked by the sun. His dark eyes were deep set and sincere. Everyone in the branch loved him dearly. He had an understanding heart and seemed able to discern what troubled people without questioning them. "Happy birthday, boys," he said, smiling at Benjy and Bo. "I'm not really an uninvited guest. Your brother Philip invited me." "T surely did!" Philip said, coming forward to stand beside Elder Farnsworth. "I thought this would be a good time to tell my family, when we're all together. You see, Mother and Dad," his eyes met theirs, "I have been asked about going on a mission. Elder Farnsworth has come to talk to you about it." L. UANA was not sure how she got through the next half hour. She was gracious and cordial to Elder Farnsworth. She was humbly grateful that Philip was worthy to be called, but, later, she lay in bed wide-eyed and sleepless. Where was the money coming from to send Philip on his mission? Ben slept restlessly beside her. She slipped out of bed without disturbing him. She would go to her lagoon where she had always gone to think and pray when she needed help. It was one of those Hawaiian nights with a_ great, lustrous pearly moon that turned the white sand into glistening crystal. A soft, feathery wind rippled the blue velvet waves in enchanting rhythm. No one could see this lagoon in the moonlight and not yearn to see it again and again and again. | Her heart beat up into her throat! There, on the beach, was a woman sitting before an easel, painting a picture of her lagoon. It was Margaret! Luana stood in stunned silence as she realized that Margaret, too, had decided that this particular place would make a perfect painting for the contest. The white sand was cold beneath Luana's feet. She shivered, although the night was warm. Covering her face with her hands, she tried to hold back the resentment that almost choked her. She was ashamed of the thoughts that tumbled through her mind. KISS OF THE WIND Margaret did not need the money from the contest the way Luana needed it. She did not have a teenage girl who needed to have her teeth straightened; no daughter who must have a _ pretty wedding; no son who had been called on a mission; no twin boys who needed lessons in art and music. Margaret's husband was a successful business man, and Margaret's paintings had sold for large sums of money. Didn't Margaret realize that Ben was striving to hold on to this plantation? Why, oh, why, Luana asked herself with a sob, did this contest mean so much to Margaret? Why did she work so desperately now in the middle of the night? Quietly Luana knelt on the sandy beach, lifting her heart in prayer. She asked her Heavenly Father to free her from selfishness and resentment and cruel jealousy of Margaret. Her heart cried out in remorse. She could not bear to feel this way. Her Heavenly Father must know that she was not asking to win the contest for herself, but only for her husband and her children. (To be concluded) Gilean Douglas And now | go from water — from the sound Which has caressed me through the nights and days. My feet will turn to distant, arid ways — And sometimes stand quite still on desert ground Because the wind through dusty palms has sighed Like sleepy water on an ebbing tide. 49 4 FROM THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker ation in this department should be sent through take and 3 Rel presidents. Sce regulations governmg the submittal of matival 1 the Foel 1 the Magazime for January 1958, page 47, and RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES SOD, oy F Central German Mission, Rhine-Ruhr District Singing Mothers Present Music for District Conference March 1963 Seated at the right in the second row: Ruby Mae Richards, former president, Central German Mission Relief Society; seated, front row, at the right: Katherine M. Miller, chorister. Sister Richards reports: "This fine chorus furnished the music for the March district conference at Duesseldorf. Sister Miller is the wife of the building supervisor in Essen. We are very proud of our chorus, and especially proud of Sister Miller. She has had years of experience as chorister in her stake in Ogden, Utah. With her talent and her sweet, loving personality, she had our sisters singing like angels, in spite of the fact she could speak only a few words of German. "Also participating at the conference as organist was Sister Koehler; also present was Martha Amenda, President of the Rhine-Ruhr District Relief Society." Ruth Watkins Benson is the new president of the Central German Mission. 50 | May 12, 1963 Mary Jane Rahlf, President, Torrance Stake Relief Society, stands second from the right in the front row; Kathryn L. Squire, former president, stands at the left in the front row; Norma I. Gagon, chorister, stands next to Sister Squire; Jean L. Terry, accompanist, is seated at the piano. Sister Rahlf reports: "This conference marked the third one at which our Singing Mothers have been privileged to perform. In October 1962 they ccessful musical, and are planning 4 Christmas musical produced a very su for 1963 under the very able direction of Sister Gagon. Our membership totals forty-five, but we are expanding rapidly with renewed en ae § Bee ee er op ee Re: _s. Eb | { cabal, Oe "wiyest >, Wee Ella O. Davis, Secretary-Treasurer, Delilah Marshall, First Left to right: d Counselor; Anna O. Smith, former Counselor; Ella H. Rinderknecht, Secon President. Sister Smith reports: "The table arrangement was done by Hazel Henderson, in colors of blue and gold. Most of the grapes she made of wax. For speci occasions, Sister Henderson has made beautiful table arrangements for the Relief Society Stake Board." Lola Gibbons is the new president of Mount Logan Stake Relief Society. 51 JANUARY 1964 Napa Stake (California) Relief Society Presents 'Singing Mothers' Night' May 17, 1963 Front row, left to right: Florene Williams, chorister; Thurza Foster, organist; Karen Murdock, soprano soloist; Marjorie Remington, pianist. Second row from the back, left to right: Sarah Neerings, Education Counselor; Dorothy Blaisdell, President, Napa Stake Relief Society. The program consisted of a number of offerings by the Singing Mothers, as well as vocal solos and piano solos. The presentation was beautifully rendered and very well received. Singers participating represented the following wards: Fairfield, Napa, Napa Second, Vallejo, Vallejo Second, and Vacaville. Pocatello Stake 'Idaho! Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference May 5, 1963 Marilyn Rishton, chorister, stands at the right on the front row, and Mary Merkeley, accompanist, stands at the left on the front row. Enily S. Romish, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: 'This group of fifty-three Singing Mothers presented the music for the morning session of the stake quarterly conference. The Church Authorities present, along with Pocatello Stake President Roland K. Hart, praised the Singing Mothers for their lovely appearance, and for their singing. We are particularly proud of the many young mothers in this group. This was the first conference in our new stake and ward building. It was less than a year ago when ground was broken for this building. Sister Lila Walch attended the conference as the representative of the General Board of Relief Society." Montpelier Stake 'Idaho! Honors Ward Officers and Class Leaders at Leadership Meeting May 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: ward presidents: Elma Boehme, Geneva; Elda Rohner, Montpelier Second Ward; Ora Bunderson, Montpelier Fifth Ward; Helen Lindsay, Dingle Ward; Zora Peterson, Montpelier Third Ward; Naomi Bacon, Georgetown Ward. The other sisters in the picture are counselors, secretaries, and other officers and class leaders. June R. Shepherd, President, Montpelier Stake Relief Society, reports: "Ward and class leaders who attained a record of 100 per cent attendance at stake leadership meetings during the year were honored by Montpelier Stake Relief Society at the closing meeting. Each sister was presented with a lovely corsage made by Evelyn Kunz, stake work meeting leader. Montpelier Fifth Ward Relief Society also received special honors for having eighty-five per cent of their officers and class leaders in attendance at leadership meetings all during the year, and also for having had a record of perfect attendance of executive officers. This ward was presented with the book The Mormon Story for their library." 4 JANUARY 1964 Nam Stake (Idaho) Handwork Display ot "Friendship Day" May 3, 1963 Alta Fuhriman, President, Nampa Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our stake Relief Society had a 'Friendship Day' as our last event of the season. We had printed invitations made, and enough were given to each ward so that each sister could receive one and also receive extras to be sent to her friends and neighbors. For our program, the stake Singing Mothers furnished two numbers. One was a special arrangement of the familiar Latter-day Saint hymn 'Come, Come, Ye Saints.' The literature department arranged and directed the literature presentation which the General Board gave at the Relief Society Conference in October 1962. We are happy to say it was very well done. We had a guest book to be signed by each one attending, one side for members, and the other side for guests. We had ordered 150 copies of The Relief Society Magazine so that we would have a copy to give to each of our guests. We were pleased that we had so many guests that we ran out of copies of the Magazine, yet sorry that we did not have enough for all. "After the program everyone was invited to see our handicraft fair on display in the cultural hall. It was there, also, that we served refreshments of homemade cookies and frappe punch. We were thrilled with the success of the day. There were over 600 in attendance. Many favorable comments and expressions of appreciation were received from our guests, as well as from our members." Oe Ones, Cea {Calif ia) Inter-Faith Social May 24, 1963 Left to right: Mary S. Grasteit, President, Orange County Stake Relief Society; Ruth Bell, Work Director Counselor; Mary Middleton, work meeting leader; Kathern Markes, Education Counselor. Sister Grasteit reports: "We held our first Inter-Faith Social on May 24, 1963, and were very pleased with its success. Our program was on the Relief Society. To a narration on the history of Relief Society, we added film slides, and each class leader gave an over-all view of the purpose of her day at Relief Society. Our Singing Mothers added great inspiration to the day, climaxed by a special arrangement of 'Come, Come, Ye Saints.' Everyone was invited to remain seated after the benediction, and the Singing Mothers sang 'Come to the Fair' as a musical invitation to join in the cultural hall for displays and refreshments. "Each of the class leaders, along with the Magazine representative, planned her display table to show the educational value of Relief Society. We have ten wards, and each ward was assigned one table for the work display. The tables included actual demonstrations of bread making, cake decorating, candy, and sweet rolls, plus how to make yarn flowers, organza _roses, and flower arranging. Other tables were filled with such items as smocked pillows, pixie dolls, mosaics, children's clothes, and the Christmas table, as shown in the picture. Our serving tables were decorated with beautiful floral arrangements of organza roses, which had been made by our board members. We had an attendance of 450 women, of whom more than fifty per cent were nonmembers of the Church, with at least thirty different church denominations being represented. The vistors were thrilled and amazed at the wonderful program of Relief Society, and many expressed a desire to attend." 54 yep a LEAL IOI ROW Gadd SER, We gacidwn cP te Sra = 55 JANUARY 1964 Kanab Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers at Convention May 17, 1963 At left: Estella Jackson, Fredonia Ward, age eighty-six, who has served sixty-nine years as a visiting teacher; at the right: Denise Parks, Page Ward, nineteen years of age, a recent convert to the Church, who has served as a visiting teacher for a few months. Cecil M. Fisher, President, Kanab Stake Relief Society, reports: "On May 17th we had a wonderful visiting teacher convention. We were thrilled to honor Estella Jackson, who has served for sixty-nine years as a visiting teacher, and is still active in that calling. We feel that this is a most outstanding record. We also honored Ruby Swapp from the Kanab North Ward who has been a visiting teacher for fifty years. Also honored was Denise Parks, Page Ward, nineteen years of age, a new convert to the Church, who has been a visiting teacher for a few months, and is continuing in this work." Attractive programs, featuring the Relief Society emblem on the cover, and listing the names of all the visiting teachers in the stake, were distributed at the convention. The number of years of service of each visiting teacher was listed, as well as her ward or branch. 56 So mT ke — pm oe md = rT — — THEOLOGY e¢ The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 55 — Missionary Service Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 71, 73, 74, and 75) For First Meeting, April 1964 Objective: To realize that the restored gospel, through the missionary program, is the key to happiness in this life and eternal joy in the life to come. Introduction Following the four November 1831 conferences, Oliver Cowder and John Whitmer left for Jackson County, Missouri, in obedience to revelation. (D & C Section 60. ) Joseph Smith resumed the revision of the Bible with Sidney Rigdon acting as scribe. (DHC I:238.) A month before this, Ezra Booth, mentioned in Lesson so, Relief Society Magazine, August 1963, apostatized and set out to bring harm to the Prophet and to the Church. His efforts to do both of these apparently met with partial success. In the first instance, it was some of his efforts and his participation in mob action against the Prophet that brought physical i. Arm to the Prophet. (DHC lI:261-265.) His attack against the Church and its members was made in a series of nine letters published by the Ohio Star (Rayenna, Ohio). They consisted of slanderous denunciations and falsehoods concerning Joseph and the Church. (Section 71.) In view of these efforts of Satan to thwart the work of the kingdom, the Prophet and Sidney were called by revelation to preach the gospel in the regions adjacent to Kirtland. (D & C 71:1-3.) An indication of the message delivered by these two missionaries on this special mission from December 1831 until the 10th of January 1832, is given in the Prophet's journal. He said it was a vindication of the cause of the Redeemer, that the day of vengeance was coming upon this generation, and that prejudice and darkness caused some to persecute the 57 JANUARY 1964 true Church. Much of the bigotry caused by the apostate's letters was allayed through this mission. The revelation counseled these brethren to confound their enemies both in public and private, with the promise that their opponents would be shamed. (Ibid., verse 7.) It is worthy to note that when the Lord's servants are attacked, it is tantamount to attacking the Lord. (Ibid., verse 8.) Preach the Gospel The commandment to participate in debate was given to the Prophet because of the unusual circumstances noted above. The Lord, on the other hand, had counseled his servants to preach the first principles, to obtain the Spirit that it might convey the truth to the hearer, and thus make known the message of the dispensation. (D & C 33; 34; 42:12-17.). An experience of the Prophet in October 1833, is an excellent example of the present counsel of the General Authorities that missionaries should not indulge in debate or argument, but they should preach the simple principles by the Spirit. While in Canada with Sidney Rigdon at the house of Freeman Nickerson's brother, the latter desired to match his Bible learning with that of the Prophet in an attempt to disprove Joseph Smith as a prophet. One night the opportunity came when Freeman Nickerson placed the Bible on the table and said, "There! Now, go to it!" The Prophet took up the challenge by telling the simple but powerful and convincing account of the restoration of the gospel. The Spirit of the Lord 58 was so manifest in his testimony that opposition no longer remained. By the aid of Freeman's brother, meetings were held that resulted in fourteen baptisms, including the Nickerson who was determined to show the Prophet wrong. (Evans, Joun Henry: Joseph Smith an American Prophet, pp. 86-88.) Lack of Success in Opposition The Lord's work was not restored to fail. As pointed out in an earlier lesson (Lesson 51, Relief Society Magazine, September 1963), the kingdom of God is on the earth in the form of the Church, and the Lord has planned that it shall never be destroyed nor given to another people, but it shall stand forever. (Daniel 2:44.) In Section 71, an aspect of this foreknown eventuality is given in verses g and 10: Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you — there is no weapon that is formed against you shall prosper; And if any man lift his voice against you he shall be confounded in mine own due time. It is apparent that this assurance of defeat for those who lift their voices in opposition to the Prophet includes not only the experiences of the missionaries of 1831-32, but of any time. To speak against the Prophet of this dispensation is the same as warring against the Church which he established, and also against God. Published opposition was not the only "weapon" used against the Prophet and the saints. Physical persecution has been a common means of attempting to thwart the purpose of the Lord. Despite the adversary's "weapons," the work of God has rolled on until today the voice of opposition is largely submerged by the prophesied, inevitable progress of successful endeavors. Commandments Are True Obedience to truth js the prescription for happiness here and eternal joy in the life to come. The Lord admonished the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon to keep the commandments for they are true. (D & C 71:11.) The knowledge of truth is given by the Spirit which the missionary is counseled to receive and to teach by. President Joseph F, Smith stated the importance of adhering to the truth in these words: Our hope of salvation must be founded upon the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, for we cannot build upon error and ascend into the courts of eternal truth and enjoy the glory and exaltation of the kingdom of our God. That cannot be done (Conference Report, October 1917, page 3). Section 73 Section revelations Covenants. Sionary work not far from Kirtland, Joseph Smith Bible which was interrupted by the - This was an undertaking which began in New present, however, it should be known that many important contributions have been made to our understanding of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Bible as a result of that "translation." An interesting expression, "gird up your loins and be sober," is found in verse 6 of Section 73. The admonition "gitd up your Joins" means to be prepared for a journey, or for a certain work. In this sense it is found in the hymn "Come, Come, Ye Saints." Ip this scripture, we are informed that it is to be understood as used by Peter, "Girg up the loins of your minds" (J Peter 1:13). In Other words, the mind should be free from those things which deter one from the work at hand. To be sober means to be of a serious mind. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 431.) Section 75 — Introduction At the conclusion of 4 conference held in Amherst, Ohio, a number of the elders asked the Prophet to inquire of the Lord concerning their specific duties in bri ging people to 4 sense of their condition. In Tecording this fact the Prophet quoted a scripture that emphasizes that everyone sins and, therefore, is in need of repentance. (D&C 33:4; DHC I:242-243.) The opening verses of Section 75 may be applied to the thousands of missionaries of this dispensation. In these five verses the missionary jis commissioned to proclaim the Lord's gospel in Carnestness, eschewing idleness, and to be mighty in that proclamation. The earnest missionary's message should be deliycred as the sound of 4 trumpet. This expression alludes to the sounds of this instrument that can be heard far and wide with mighty blasts. BE.) JANUARY 1964 Such an allusion seems to carry with it the importance of the message out shame or diffidence on the part of the Lord's servant. 'The following testimony of President Brigham Young is typical of those who have received the truth and made it a part of their lives: made up my mind to declare the things that I understood, fearless of friends and were nothing to me, for it was my duty to rise before a congregation of Strangers and say that the Lord lives, that He has h he may use words and sentences in an awkward style, he will convince and Convert more, of the truth, than can the most polished orator destitute of will influence the hearers so that they will feel it (Journal of Discourses 4:21). Missionaries are promised by the Lord that if they labor faithfully, they "shall be laden with many Sheaves, and Crowned with honor, and glory, and immortality, and eternal life'? (D & C 75:5). Missionary Assignments Section 75 contains many missionaly assignments. (D&C 75:6-17, 30-36.) The names of some of these elders are well known in our history, such as Orson Hyde, Orson 60 Pratt, Hyrum Smith, and others, but some are mentioned about whom little js known. This does not mean, however, that their labors were not as acceptable to the Lord nor that their reward will not be as great as the well-known. The promise of eterna] glory is for all the ormance in accordance with his (On pages Doctrine Pray to the Lord that he might give the Comforter which would teach area, people, and the particular circumstances at the moment of contacting the Prospective investigator, Divine guidance is the answer in all of these Cases; nonetheless, the missionary is to study the people and the culture. The key to receiving the benefits of the Holy Ghost is Prayer. The Lord does not give if the person does not knock. The missionary is given the promise that through his faithfulness the Lord will be with him to the end. (Ibid., Verses 13-14.) by their faithfulness they shall overbeing lifted up at the last day. (Ibid., verse 16.) These promises enforce the truth that constancy and en devotion to duty are the keys to receiving eternal life, or exaltation. President Anthon H. Lund said: "Our religion is one in which we are called upon to show our faith by our works." As an example of this truism, missionary calls made upon the Church membership are most appropriate. 'The question as to how much pay will be received for this service is far from the mind of the Latter-day Saint. The impelling motive is one of duty that the glorious message of the gospel may be shared with others. Distance or place is not a consideration, but rather it is, "I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord." Missionary Procedures In missionary language, the "going from house to house" is known as "tracting." (D&C 75:18.) When the missionary is received into a house, he is counseled to leave his blessing with that house. (Ibid., verse 19.) The gospel is the blessing, although the prayer in the home for the benefit of the host is a direct way in which this counsel may be followed. The missionaries in the day of judgment will be judges of the houses that reject them, and it will be more tolerable for the heathen in that day than for those who rejected them. (D & C 75:21-22.) As President John 'Taylor has pointed out, judgment, under God, is committed to Christ; then to the Twelve Apostles; and then to the saints, including certain officers in the Priesthood. (Mediation and Atonement, Chapter 22.) President Charles W. Penrose said: LESSON DEPARTMENT The great judgment that is to come will not be altogether performed by one individual sitting upon a great white throne and passing judgment upon the millions upon millions of the earth's inhabitants. God's house is a house of order, and the Lord will have agents appointed as he has now behind the veil as well as in the flesh, and when the great judgment comes, all will be judged according to their works, and the books will be opened, and the Book of Life will be scanned and the man's acts and the women's acts upon the earth will be disclosed, and we will all confess '1 our souls that the judgment is just and righteous, because it will be uttered and delivered by one having authority and the seal of God will be upon it. (Conference Report, October 1916, page 24). Another testimony to this effect is given in the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 44°. The idea that it will be more tolerable for the heathen in the day of judgment than for those who reject the gospel, suggests that since the heathen will be assigned to the terrestrial kingdom (D & C 45:54; 76:72), the willfully corrupt may be in a lesser kingdom. Unless the missionary does his work faithfully, he may be accused by those whom he neglected. (Ibid., 4319-20.) Assist in the Work The members of the Church in 1832 were placed under the responsibility of assisting the families of the missionaries who could not sustain them. (Ibid., 75:24-25.) In case there were some who could not go on missions they should provide for their families and "would in nowise lose his [their] crown." However, they were admonished to labor in the Church. (Ibid., verse 28.) Activity in the kingdom is an essential in obtaining the blessings of heaven. 61 JANUARY 1964 In keeping with the commandment to provide for one's family, the virtue of industry is demanded. Idleness is a sin. There is always something for the person to do in the Church; there is always opportunity to improve one's mind by study; idleness means neglect and waste, both of which are opposed to the spirit and letter of the gospel. (Ibid., verse 29.) Section 74 — Background While translating the Bible, a question was raised about one of Paul's statements concerning an aspect of marriage relations. Section 74 is an interpretation of I Corinthians 7:14. It appears that in the Corinth Branch of the Church there arose the question of whether or not the convert should leave the nonmember husband or wife. Paul's counsel was that this should not be done because a sanctifying effect was brought into the home by the member of the Church. It was maintained by some that if the wife should leave her husband because of his not being a member, she should also leave the children. Paul RE VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Message 55 — "Wherefore, Be Not Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, April 1964 Weary in Well-Doing" (D & C 64:33). Declared against such a doctrine, which brings us to the real message of the Section — "little children are holy, being sanctified through the atonement of Jesus Christ" (Ibid., 74:7). This passage and others in our modern books of scripture (Ibid., 29:46-48) have cleared away some of the false doctrines that grew up during the period of apostasy regarding the salvation of little children. By revelation to Joseph Smith, children who die before the age of accountability — eight years — are saved in the celestial kingdom through the atonement of Jesus Christ. (Lesson 20, Relief Society Magazine, October 1959.) Questions for Discussion 1. Explain: "There is no weapon that ls formed against you that shall prosper." 2. Discuss: Truth will triumph, and it must be lived for one to receive eternal life. 3. Define the gospel as the power of God unto salvation. 4. Why is it necessary for the missionary to seek divine guidance in his work? 5. What responsibility is attached to the missionary work? Objective: To show that great accomplishments come through doing small things well. When the Lord gave the instruction "Be not weary in well-doing," he emphasized the fact that great 62 accomplishments come out of doing small things well. In the same verse in the Doctrine and Covenants, he said, "out of small things proceedeth that which is great." As we admire and applaud the honors which come to certain individuals as a result of their great accomplishments, we are prone to overlook the fact that these outstanding achievements have _ come only as a result of their having done well a great number of small and, often, tedious routine things. 'This is true of a priceless piece of art, of a fine symphony, or of a beautiful building architecturally. Only when minute care is given - to the small details, can the finished _ product be great. The story is told that when _ Michelangelo was working on one | of his great masterpieces, a friend | called and observed him at his work. | Some weeks later this friend visited | the master artist again, but could see | very little change in the painting. | When he commented thus, Michel- | angelo pointed out that he had changed slightly the expression of | the eyes, had added a little color | here, and changed a line there. "But these are small details," the friend replied. "Yes," the artist responded, "but perfection is composed of details, but perfection is no detail." In avoiding "weariness in well-doing,' we should recognize the joy | that comes from doing well the little, good things. It is a truism that no one can really accomplish great things without being good, and most frequently true goodness springs from the simple little things. Recently a prominent newspaper published an editorial praising the LESSON DEPARTMENT life of an outstanding woman who had passed away. 'The editorial emphasized the fact that her life had been beautifully meaningful, because in many little ways she had brought inspiration and encouragement to others. She had consistently put service above any consideration of personal comfort or convenience. Over a long period of years, on a firm, self-imposed schedule, she had frequently visited the ill and shut-ins. On a birthday in her late eighties she acknowledged the gift of a box of candy by saying, "This is wonderful, Ill take it to some of the old folks I'm visiting." Most of these "old folks" were younger than she. This is the type of selfless, dedicated "well-doing" which distinguishes a life and makes it great. Someone has said that the requisite for great living is the ability to do common things uncommonly well. All of us can wisely profit by applying to our lives the divine instruction of not wearying in well-doing. James Allen in his book The Heavenly Life, page 39, sums up this thought with these lines, "Lay up each year thy harvest of welldoing, wealth that kings nor thieves can take away. When all the things thou callest thine, goods, pleasures, honors fall; thou in thy virtue shall survive them all." Let us follow the admonition of the Lord when he said, "Wherefore, be not weary in well-doing," recognizing the fact that "out of small things proceedeth that which is great." 63 WORK MEETING Ti. E Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 15 — Planning the Family Wardrobe Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, April 1964. Objective: To help each family member feel well dressed regardless of family income. Mioruer,. I need a dress for next Saturday night, and there is a lovely one in the shop window that I'd like to buy. May I have it?" Are you ever confronted with such problems? If so, what is the wisest thing to do? 'To say yes, and try to adjust other expenditures through the month, or does such a question cause you to stop and think and wonder how you can do some intelligent planning to avoid such emergency calls? I hope the latter is the case, because wardrobe planning is the theme for this discussion. Many people spend too much for clothes and still "have nothing to wear." The percentage of the family income spent for clothing may be as low as five per cent and go as high as twenty-five per cent, but the amount spent does not alone determine how well dressed the family will be. People sometimes buy clothing because it looks well on the model in the shop window, because of sales persuasion, because of high style, because they think it a bargain, or because they need it immediately and have no time to look further. 64 Such unwise ways of spending the clothes budget do not bring the satisfaction possible where buying is done according to a_ previous plan. Cowper described the results of such buying thus: Dress drains our cellar dry And keeps our larder lean; puts out our fires And introduces hunger, frost, and woe, Where peace and hospitality might reign. But apparel oft proclaims the man, so you had better have a carefully worked out plan. A full larder and tranquility will be your reward, and you will have the consciousness that everyone in the family is well dressed. How do you start? Here is the first step: go through every closet and drawer that contains clothing to be sure you know what each member of the family has. 'The older members of the family might help in this by going through theirs with you. Sort the contents as you look them over in three piles. Keep those that are in good condition that will be worn and enjoyed. Put aside those which would be worn if they were mended or dyed or re modeled. Box for disposal the mistakes, the misfits, those which will never be worn again which can be given away with profit. Step number two: have a notebook, write the name of each person in the family, allowing sufficient space to list each person's needs. Make three divisions for each (1) Sunday best, (2) everyday, (3) special; what you have and what you need. It will then be easy to list what each person has that is usable, and the process of sorting and listing will suggest possible needs for the year ahead. Step number three: have a family council and discuss your plan, stressing these items: a. A Sunday outfit is important for every individual in the family. Psychologically, one is more likely to act his best if he looks his best, and surely one should be at his best on the Lord's Day. Check your list and see what the family can do to get in condition for Sunday wear and decide what is needed for the year ahead. B. Appropriate daytime clothes for school or work are essential. One can forget about how he looks if he knows he is appropriately dressed and can then concentrate on his work. Drip-dry shirts and blouses, easy-to-care-for skirts and trousers, and no-iron underwear lighten the task of caring for these clothes and should be a major consideration in planning for the year ahead. C. Sportswear and clothes for special occasions are important, but come third on the list and should not swallow up most of the budget. A swimsuit for one, tennis outht for another, a cub scout or party dress for others are examples. Special interests determine what should be included. D. Where the money will come from and the amount that can be allocated for clothing require careful study. How LESSON DEPARTMENT much money will be needed for the year ahead? Make an estimate. What can each do to help get what is needed? Here is a splendid opportunity to encourage initiative in earning and in learning how to make and care for clothing. Step number four: learn the basic rules for thrifty shopping. 1. Shop with a list; buy only the items planned for; know what you want, and don't depend on a saleslady to tell you what to get. 2. Have a color plan, a basic color could be decided upon for each family member. 'Then, whatever is purchased can be coordinated in various combinations. 3. Buy at the end of the season, and get what you need at a fraction of the cost paid by early-season shoppers. 4. Look for good-quality fabrics and simple, beautiful lines that will bring satisfaction. 5. Learn to sew and make your own clothes; a clever woman with a needle and thread can stretch the budget twice the distance. Perhaps most important of all, the homemaker must become clothes conscious to know how clothes can lift the soul, if they are flattering in line and scale and texture. And don't forget color. Just because a woman is advancing in years doesn't mean that she should shift into neutral. Color is important for all ages. The homemaker by her own appearance can set the example. By taking stock of herself she can encourage family members to take stock of themselves. An attractive mother in a well-kept home can set the tone for high family morale. Careful wardrobe planning can be of inestimable help in this, as well as in balancing the budget. 65 LITERATURE @ LI. America's Literature Taw" aaleianalet Lesson 47 — Sinclair Lewis, American Self-Satirist (1885-1951) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 855-866) For Third Meeting, April 1964 Objective: To study and evaluate middle-class United States of America during the 1920's as represented in the life and writings of Sinclair Lewis. "Mirror, mirror on the wall, who is fairest of us all?" The relatively unknown writer, Harry Sinclair Lewis, created his most telling mirror of the 1920's on his typewriter; rather than proclaiming the most beautiful and fair, he caricatured himself and those whom he had known best among the 2,500 people of Sauk Centre, Minnesota, his typical, all-American home town which he was to make immortal. His five major novels which appeared during the 1920's had a magic in them which neither he nor his publishers could foresee or control. His novels sold far into the millions, exceeding even his fondest dreams for the fame and money he knew one day were to be his, all earned, to be sure, by his two index fingers pecking at the keyboard so steadily that his hands and wrists became sore. Then, as now, few critics list his name among America's greatest writers. He himself was painfully aware that his mimicking transcriptions of reality often seemed nearer a journalistic tran- 66 script of everyday living than the great literary art or style young Hal had once dreamed of achieving. While many loyal writer friends and literary critics defended his work and praised it highly, he founded no such literary school as did Howells before him or Hemingway after him. How, then, are we to account for the magic of his appeal? A full accounting would be presumptuous, so devious are the patterns of public taste, but some appeals are obvious. The first and greatest is as immediate as a yellowed high school year book or a family photograph album. A second appeal may have been the emergence of a new identity for the Nation as it struggled to find itself among the complex and multiple cross-currents of our modern age; this he vividly portrayed in his writings. A third appeal may have been the "revolt from the village," the smugness and mediocrity of small town life, which found, in Lewis, a major spokesman. He sometimes cruelly satirized the shortcomings of established institutions — social, intellectual, patriotic, economic and religious — for smugness, complacency, and mediocrity which he found to be their dominant characteristics. In detailing with meticulous and penetrating realism the human foibles of middle-class America, Lewis was both idealist and realist, hating his drab, stereotyped home town yet loving it. 'The seeds of all his villains and heroes lay within himself, there tossed about and torn apart by the raging conflicts which he always tried so desperately to resolve by writing them out of himself. The Lewis Family Life Lewis' father, Dr. E. J. Lewis, was a stern, methodical, parsimonious man, proud of his Puritan ancestors and dedicated to the virtues of responsibility and hard work. A school teacher before he began "reading medicine" in a Minnesota doctor's office, he believed strongly in education as a tool necessary for success. Lewis' mother was a fellow teacher, reared in Waseca, Minnesota, who gave birth to Harry, her third son, in 1885. She was sickly with tuberculosis and pleurisy, and died when he was six. A year later Dr. Lewis brought a stepmother into their home. She often read to "Hal," gave him the companionship not to be found in his father, and earned Hal's lifelong affection. When the oldest brother left a Chicago dental school in mid-term he returned home to work in the flour mill and to marry, but he was never to be much either in the family or in Hal's life. It was his brother Claude who was the father's LESSON DEPARTMENT favorite son, Claude who followed his father's footsteps, to medica] school and a profitable medical practice in St. Cloud, Minnesota, Claude who was wanted and_successful, Claude whom the gangly, lonely, and teased Hal envied as a boy and whom he tried to impress for sixty years of his life. Without a strong sense of belonging in his home, scorned by the one gitl to whom he made puppylove advances, left out by Claude and the older boys whom he so admired because of his being the "'little brother' who always wanted to tag along, cast out by boys of his own age save for one lone friend, Hal found comforting escape in keeping a diary and in the English literature books which his father kept in the house but never mentioned. 'The beauty and idealism of the romantic poets best filled his needs, while nature was far more real to him in the pages of his lifelong passion, Thoreau's Walden, than were the rolling Minnesota prairies. Little as there was to do in plain Sauk Centre, decades before the advent of organized recreation, lonely Harry did less. Over six feet before he was sixteen, he was so awkward at dancing that he never learned, yet he attended the school dances by sitting in a corner and reading a book the entire evening. When he was seventeen his parents sent him to Oberlin Academy in Ohio, a Congregational school, where he experienced a_ religious ferment and strongly desired to become a foreign missionary. But after a summer in Sauk Centre he forgot this dream, while his father decided on Yale as best preparation 67 JANUARY 1964 for his professional future. Here, as at Oberlin, he attended practically no social functions, often walked alone in the fields, and during the summers traveled by cattle boat to Liverpool and Panama. With a school chum he spent a month as janitor at Helicon Hall, an experiment in communal living dominated by the socialist reformer and novelist, Upton Sinclair. With no funds from his father until he returned to school, he made a meager living doing hack work for various magazines, then returned to Yale, from which he was graduated in 1907. He toyed with the possibilities of studying law and medicine, but, instead followed the pattern of his greatest college interest and decided to become a writer. Sorely disappointed in Harry's evident irresponsibility, Dr. Lewis gave him no financial or moral support. Completely on his own, Harty wrote magazine articles and corrected copy in newspaper offices, finally settling in New York City where, in 1914, he married Grace Hegger, a talented and_ beautiful young girl who was supporting herself by working on the staff of Vogue magazine. In 1917, his first son, Wells Lewis, was born. Before his first great success in 1920, when Main Street was published, he wrote four novels which were mildly praised. After the phenomenal sales of Main Street guaranteed both his fame and his fortune, Lewis began the great decade of his life, sustained by the wide acceptance of his best novels, Babbitt (1922), Arrowsmith (1925), Elmer Gantry (1927), and Dodsworth (1929). Although Main 68 Street has been translated into nearly every European language, it is usually considered that Babbitt and Arrowsmith constitute Lewis' best work. Exemplifying his nonconformity, he declined the Pulitzer Prize (for Babbitt) in 1925. It was through the character of Babbitt, an American businessman, that Lewis truly pictured himself. However, In 1930, when he was the first American to be offered the Nobel Prize (for Arrowsmith), he accepted. Though before his lonely death in Rome in 1952 at the age of sixtyseven he was to write over twenty novels, innumerable short stories and essays, his best work was done by 1930, impossible though it was for him ever to admit it. Homeless Harry After Main Street made Sinclair Lewis a Great Personage his success was undeniably proved to his family and home town in terms they could understand — money. Throughout the remainder of his life Lewis returned often, but never could he stay long, neither there nor any place. Having achieved success, he continued to pursue success even more relentlessly; all he ever gained from his endless self-driving were fame and money. He was a bundle of restless, nervous energy which | never exhausted itself. An "amusing, ardent person, condemned to perpetual vitality," he spent his life searching for the romantic ideals of peace, goodness, and beauty which he had first loved in his lonely childhood; not finding them in the world about him, he attacked human weakness wherever he found it, both in himself and in others, more and more frequently exploding in violent tantrums at those who, in the slightest, opposed his will or doubted his literary greatness. Sinclair Lewis inspired genuine love in Grace Hegger, his first wife, and in Dorothy Thompson, his second, though both left him, alcoholism being a contributing factor. He loved jokes and plotting out actions and conversations which amused others. Though stingy at times, he was often most generous, both with his own family and with struggling writers. When he so chose, he had a boyish charm and whimsical warmth which gave those near him delight. Most often in his earlier years he could be tender and gentle to adults; never could he communicate with children, including his own. Main Street Everything in Lewis' life was secondary to his writing. His writing he always loved; to the end of his life he frequently lost himself in the intensity of work, successfully using his writing as escape from the personal problems he could neither face nor solve. And when he combined his continuing drive to know life as it really was with Sauk Centre (called Gopher Prairie in the novel) which he loved so fully that after his youth he could not bear living there — only then was such a conflicting combination ready to produce Main Street, which appeared In 1920. The novel centers about Carol Kennicott, wife of the complaisant village doctor. Having been brought to Gopher Prairie as a new bride by her husband, who knows her talents LESSON DEPARTMENT and her restless desire to improve her world, Carol increasingly feels trapped. The physical makeup of the town reveals the same clutter, conformity, and subservience to established values which she sees in its inhabitants: Main Street with its two-story brick shops, its story-and-a-half wooden residences, its muddy expanse from concrete walk to walk, its huddle of Fords and lumber-wagons, was too small to absorb her.... The skeleton iron windmill on the farm a few blocks away at the north end of Main Street was like the ribs of a dead cow. She thought of the coming of the Northern winter, when the unprotected houses would crouch together in terror of storms galloping out of that wild waste. 'They were so small and weak, the little brown houses. 'They were shelters for sparrows, not homes for warm laughing people. Dyers Drug Store, a corner building of regular and unreal blocks of artificial stone. Inside the store, a greasy marble soda-fountain with an electric lamp of red and green and curdled-yellow mosaic shade. Pawed-over heaps of toothbrushes and combs and_ packages of shaving-soap. Shelves of soap-cartons, teething-rings, garden-seeds, and patent medicines in yellow packages... Notorious mixtures of opium and alcohol, in the very shop to which her husband sent patients for the filling of prescriptions... A small wooden motion-picture theater called "The Rosebud Movie Palace." Lithographs announcing a film called "Fatty in Love." Howland & Gould's Grocery. In the display window, black, over-ripe bananas and lettuce on which a cat was sleeping. Shelves lined with red crepe paper which was now faded and torn and concentrically spotted. A score of similar shops and establishments. Behind them and mixed with them, the houses, meek cottages or large, comfort- 69 JANUARY 1964 able, soundly uninteresting symbols of prosperity. In all the town not one building save the Ionic bank which gave pleasure to Carol's eyes; not a dozen buildings which suggested that, in the fifty years of Gopher Prairie's existence, the citizens had realized that it was either desirable or possible to make this, their common home, amusing or attractive (from Main Street, pp. 33-37 passim. Copyright 1920 by Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc.; renewed 1948, by Sinclair Lewis. Reprinted by permission of the publishers). From the street and all that it symbolizes Carol flees, distraught at the thought of making her home and future in Gopher Prairie. Evoking no responses from her husband, she finds stimulating ideas and conversation with Miles Bjornstam, a drifting jack-of-all trades, and Guy Pollock, the local lawyer, who more fully defined the force which stultifies the village: She asked impulsively, you stay here?" "You, why do "I have the Village Virus." "It sounds dangerous." "It is, more dangerous than cancer that will certainly get me at fifty unless I stop this smoking. The Village Virus is the germ which — it's extraordinarily like the hook-worm — it infects ambitious people who stay too long in the provinces. You'll find it epidemic among lawyers and doctors and ministers and _ college-bred merchants — all these people who have had a glimpse of the world that thinks and laughs, but have returned to their swamp. I'm a perfect example. When I first came here I swore I'd 'keep up my interest.' Very lofty! I read Browning and went to Minneapolis for the theaters. I thought I was 'keeping up.' But I guess the Village Virus had me already. I was reading four copies of cheap fictionmagazines to one poem. I'd put off the Minneapolis trips till I simply had to go there on a lot of legal matters. I 70 decided to leave here. Stern resolution. Grasp the world. Then I found that the Village Virus had me, absolute! I didn't want to face new streets and younger men — real competition. It was too easy to go on making out conveyances and arguing ditch cases. So — That's all of the biography of a living dead man..." (Ibid., pp. 155-157). Chapter XI (text, page 856) details Carol's increasing disillusionment when she joins the 'Thanatopsis, a women's study club, and attempts to inject into their circle her new ideas about really studying a few great writings and about bringing all forces of the community together to build beneficial projects in a spirit of unselfish cooperation. Rather than listening to Carol, each person speaks in tones of mutual distrust, self-interest, and entrenched prejudice. As she raises her hand to vote for the measure she abhors (pressure of the group being the true mechanical dominance which forces her hypocrisy) she begins to realize how effectively she has been checkmated in her efforts to liberate and improve her community. Increasingly convinced that she will suffocate if she stays in Gopher Prairie, Carol leaves Will and runs away to Washington, D. C., where for two years she tries in vain to discover or create a set of values to replace those of Minnesota provincialism. Neither glad nor sorry to be back, she is soon expecting her second child but still unwilling to submit to the village, even though she knows she has been beaten. One evening before retiring, Carol leads her husband to the nursery and points to their daughter. "... Do you see that object on the pillow? Do you know what it is? It's a bomb to blow up smugness.... Think what that baby will see and meddle with before she dies in the year 2,000! She may see an industrial union of the whole world, she may see aeroplanes going to Mars." "Yump, probably be changes all right,"' yawned Kennicott. She sat on the edge of his bed while he hunted through his bureau for a collar which ought to be there and _persistently wasn't.... "I do not admit that Main Street is as beautiful as it should be! I do not admit that Gopher Prairie is greater or more generous than Europe! I do not admit that dish-washing is enough to satisfy all women! I may not have fought the good fight, but I have kept the faith." "Sure. You bet you have,' said Kennicott. "Well good night. Sort of feels to me like it might snow tomorrow. Have to be thinking about putting up the storm-windows pretty soon. Say, did you notice whether the girl put that screwdriver back?"' (Ibid., pp. 450-451). And the subduing of Carol is complete. Of What Value, Sinclair Lewis? As stated by T. K. Whipple, 'Sinclair Lewis is the most successful critic of American society because he is himself the best proof that his charges are just." At his own true and idealistic core Sinclair Lewis was a typical middle-class American who passionately opposed all forms of tyranny over men's minds and spirits. Though _ his sympathies for oppressed minority groups is revealed elsewhere, his best novels reveal and expose the most widespread, most dangerous threat to basic freedoms: the self-tyranny LESSON DEPARTMENT of established prejudice and smugness, hypocritical lip service to the enduring economic, social, and religious ideals, while at the same time worshipping bigness, quantity, and material "success."" Most ironically, Lewis himself loved these very proofs of boosterism and measurable success which he satirized most brilliantly. Though Sinclair Lewis idealized 'Thoreau's economic simplicity and integrity, in his inner heart's immediate worldly desire, Lewis loved best what he satirized. Lewis had a sensitive ear which allowed him to catch the idioms of American speech as no writer has done since Mark 'Twain. The speech of his characters is loaded with cliches rarely found in the dictionary but still alive and current: "you tightwad," "roughneck," "why sure, you bet," "I feel punk," "I work like the dickens,' "common as mud," "that takes the cake," "I stuck to it through thick and thin." Sometimes sentimental, at times overly caustic, Lewis had a remarkable ability to mirror architecture, detail of decor and design, to lampoon and reveal folkways of American middle class. But always behind the irony of Lewis there is an idealism which conceives of a better society than the one his writings reveal. Out of this gap between what was and what should be came the endless torrent of nervous energy which, controlled and directed, produced his best works, but when applied to social problems not entirely absorbed by his imagination, yielded inferior writings. M7 JANUARY 1964 Thoughts for Discussion 1. The life of Dr. E. J. Lewis, Harry's father, was dominated by a stern sense of duty. Do you feel this sence of duty was inherited by his son, or was it repudiated by him? Z. Do you feel that Lewis' evaluation of middle class America during the early 1920'S ls valid? SOCIAL SCIENCE ¢ Divine Law and Church Government Lesson 13 — The Opportunity and Responsibility of a Calling in Church Government Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, April 1964 Objective: To stress the importance of each and every calling to the successful operation of Church government.. When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God (Mosiah 2:17).... By love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself (Gal. 5:13-14). If thou lovest me thou shalt serve me and keep all my commandments (D & C 42:29). A wise man said, "Human. So0- cieties are happy in proportion as they have their treasure in that class of goods which are not lessened by being shared." The gospel of Jesus Christ requires from each member a personal investment of time, intelligence, talent, and wealth. This investment is in the development of the kingdom of God. In this kingdom (society) the welfare of others is the major treasure and service is the medium of exchange. Every member has the opportunity for full participation in 72 service to his fellow men. There is no limit to one's sharing in this treasure; therefore, as the wise man suggests, there is no limit to his happiness. Human weaknesses, selfishness, covetousness, and greed are the obstacles in the way of the realization of this ideal. A Lay Leadership The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints depends upon a lay leadership. Every member in good standing is eligible to hold office. Service in this respect begins very early. Young people ten and twelve years of age are frequently called to positions (Sunday School class officers, deacon presidencies, secretaries, etc.). The Church does not have a trained or professional ministry. It does have a program of training for leadership that begins formally with the deacon age and _ continues throughout the life of the individual. Because of this opportunity for training, the Church can and does tightly expect an improved leadership from each new generation. An important part of this leaderp training is the formulation C an attitude of willingness to serve. Church need to acceptance of any call to serve. T comes from continued teaching an Numbers Involved in Leadership From the six members present at the organization of the Church on has been a tremendous increase 0 the number of administrative units in the government of the Church. The number of stakes has reache 387 (November 1963 ) and the wards and branches in stakes NOW number approximately 3,588, and there are 73 missions. The importance of the above statistics in this discussion is the increase of officers and teachers Tt quired to operate this great orgaly 'zation. An average size ward (55° members) needs approximately 250 officers and teachers tO complete the organization for their regular activities. In addition, } approximately 120 leaders to office the stake organization properly. LESSON DEP ARTMENT stitute a tremendous army of active members, numbering approximately forty-five pet cent of the total membership. It is the practice of the Church to give one assignment to a person. Also, it is customary to change the assignments from time to time. This gives more people opportunity for service with a wider experience in Church government. The Call to Service We believe that the leaders of this Church are called by divine authority and may enjoy the blessings of inspiration and revelaHon in carrying out their assignand may have hands laid upon h receiving the blessings of heaven to assist him lm carrying out his callin 73 JANUARY 1964 the knowledge of the gospel to other members. The personal life of the teacher or leader can have more influence on the testimony of the members than the vocal ex. Pression of the lesson in class or in meeting. 2. The Personal Interview. Each person suggested for office in the ward should be approached, in regard to the calling, by the bishopric. Officers of organizations may Suggest names of desired persons, but the first contact should be made by the bishopric only. After the interview with the bishopric, at Which time they satisfy themselves that this person is right with the Lord, properly prepared for leadership, and the assignment being considered is the proper one for this person, then and not until then, the bishopric should refer the person to the officer in charge and the member of the bishopric assigned to that organization. The officer in charge should then interview the new appointee and explain in detail the responsibilities and obligations of the calling. Every help should be given the new officer or teacher to assist him in successfully meeting this new opportunity for service. Many people who serve success. Fully in the Church are not highly trained for their assignments; but any member who is willing to work and put forth a sincere effort to know what the assignment requires, and who is humble enough to recognize that he is being called to the Lord's work, asking in faith for divine help, can fill well any assignment he may be called to in this Church. 74 The Member's Part in Accepting a Calling It should be clear that any calling in this Church is a real opportunity. - First, it is an opportunity for service. It is doing something for others with an unselfish motive, voluntarily putting forth an effort for the betterment, relief, or general welfare of someone else. (2) It is an opportunity for self-improvement. One cannot do anything for others without receiving a greater benefit for himself. This may express itself in mental and spiritual growth as well as developing in him greater human understanding. (3) It is an opportunity for closer association and better communication with God. One cannot sincerely and conscientiously accept a part in the Lord's great program without feeling his influence in every righteous effort one puts forth in advancing his work. In accepting a call, one must realize that, for him, this call js the most important assignment in the Church. To the extent that one excels in carrying out one's assignment, the work of the Lord excels. It is the unified effort of all officers and teachers that makes the Church program succeed. Responsibility of Church Members. The responsibility is not only on the officers and teachers for the advancement of the work of the Lord. To be a good follower is an essential qualification for group membership. There are so many assignments in a ward, involving so many different people, that each person, no matter what his special calling or area of service may be, must also be an active participant as a ward member. In fact, one quality of good leadership is being able to identify oneself effectively with the group in a variety of ways. It is important that all ward members accept the opportunities for training provided by the organizations of the Church. By their participation in the program, growth and development, both spiritually and mentally, are assured. At the same time, the activity of the membership provides the sustaining and stimulating influence that officers and teachers need to help them make their efforts vital. Importance of the Sustaining Vote The members of a ward find it quite simple to raise their hands when the names of people are read to fill the various offices in the Church. Sometimes the presiding officer, so familiar with this procedure, does this assignment in such a routine way that the members, without thinking, raise their hands to sustain. 'This is not a healthy situation to have in any ward. However, more frequently, the lack of thought in the process of sustaining leaders is on the part of the members. 'Their indifference is clearly expressed in their failure to support the sustained leader with their participation in the activity involved in the discharge of his duty. Sustained by Action. When a member of a ward raises his hand to sustain a person in office, he is exercising one of the most important duties and privileges given to the membership of the Church. In the 20th Section of the Doctrine and LESSON DEPARTMENT Covenants we read, "No person is to be ordained to any office in this church, where there is a regularly organized branch of the same, without the vote of that church" (verse 65). The vote of a member should be carefully thought through before it is expressed. 'This is not a democratic process in the common meaning of the term. We believe the leadership is divinely called and operates under the inspiration of the Lord. Therefore, when the appropriate officer proposes and presents people to be sustained, the membership have the privilege of raising their hands for or against the recommendation. Usually the presiding officer will explain that the majority rules, but he would give consideration to the objections of the dissenting individual, after the meeting. By a member's raising his hand to sustain, he approves the selection, the assignment and he fully agrees to support the leader in carrying out the duties of his office. The responsibility of the sustaining member is met by his activity in helping to make the officer or teacher successful. Proper action ls more important than words or signs. "Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness" (D & C 58:27). Active support in the Church requires doing many things without having to be commanded. This admonition applies to both officers and members. A case in point could be the accomplishment of the home teaching program. 'There is much room to do good over and above the re- 75 JANUARY 1964 'J SACRED MUSIC FOR WOMEN'S THREE PART CHORUSES FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD, | GO—Madsen.20 IF YOU LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS —Madsen -- 002..00eeceeeee IN THY FORM—Madsen HEAVENS ARE TELLING Se 25 LORD, GOD OF OUR 25.20 FATHERS—Armbruster ___ 25 Ae LORD iS MY LIGHT—Allitsen.25 Po, LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen.20 _- MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR GOD—Madsen 20 —_ O LOVELY LAND, AMERICA—Madsen: 20 me OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert.20 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah! | 1 Please send the music indicated above. | CL] On Approval [] Charge L] Money Enclosed | 1 Name Address.: City and State Da Made 15 E. Ist South | / Salt Lake City 11, Utah | quirements in the discharge of this assignment, yet at times pressure must be exerted to get the visits made before the month ends. 'There are examples in other organizations illustrating the need of one's sustaining action as well as the uplifted hand. Limitations in Church Callings At the time a person is called to serve in any office in this Church, careful instructions should be given as to his duties and responsibilities. A true quality of leadership is to recognize the extent of the responsibility of the office. 'The individual also should seek diligently to know his duty in the office to which he has been called. (D & C 107:99- 100. ) There is a close and interlocking relationship with every activity and function in the organization of the Church. It all comes under the direction of the Priesthood and insures the orderly operation of the kingdom. When duties are clearly defined and the directions followed, effective operation of the program is assured. 'This still leaves room for the expression of the personality and the initiative of the leader in executing his assignment. The secret of success in all Church work is being in tune with the Spirit of God and keeping in mind always the purpose and objective of the plan of life and salvation — which is to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man. 1. Many Called But Few Are Chosen. In the 121st Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we are reminded that to be chosen, one must be in tune with the Lord. The things of this world can and do become so important that they interfere with the discharge of our assignments in the Church. The rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven and can only be controlled upon the principles of righteousness. One cannot serve the Lord satisfactorily in any office or calling in this Church unless the principles of righteousness and the purpose of the Church hold first place in one's thinking and acting. 'There is no place for substitutes, or halfway marks in this particular. The inability to achieve this dedication is why "many are called but few are chosen." 'They may not be chosen because of their failure to use the opportunity and knowledge with which they have been blessed to pursue the work of the Lord. (See D & C 95:5-6.) 2. Love, the Guiding and Ruling Principle of Authority of the Church. Once again we return to the oft referred to and divine characteristic of love of fellow men. In the following quotation, the importance and power of love as the dominant motivation in the Priesthood is forcefully presented. No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meckness, and by love unfeigned; By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile — Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then Showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reLESSON DEPARTMENT LET US HELP YOU TRAVEL WORRY FREE To HAWAII and SOUTH PACIFIC (New low fares) EUROPE 21 Day Excursion Tours (Save 30%) BOOK OF MORMON LAND TOUR—Jan. 16th THE HOLY LAND including Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel Turkey, Greece and Italy (With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon—March 5th) HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT August '64 including World Fair in New York (With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon) (Authorized Agent for all Domestic and International Carriers) MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. (Bonded) (Your Experienced Travel Counselor) 14 South Main Street 328-3161 Salt Lake City "There is no substitute for experience' proved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever (D & C 121:41-46). To execute one's calling properly in this Church, a person should study and follow the counsel of Section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants. My WORLD'S FAIR TOURS 21 days — June 21 to July 11: World's Fair, Church historical places (does not include pageant). > 27 days — July 13 to August 8 World's Fair, Church historical places. Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also, Quebec and Montreal, Canada. Eo 24 days — July 23 to August 15 World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. —— All tours include: Show at Jones' Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway Show and a special event ticket at World's Fair, etc. —— Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 78 COLD MEDALLION HOME A wonderful new way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. _— s 3 Summary The opportunities and responsibilities involved in a calling in Church government are about equal in their bearing upon the person involved. The opportunities result in growth and development of the individual. 'The responsibilities require service to others; assisting them in their pursuit of happiness, understanding, and perfection. This unselfish dedication to service increases the efficiency and effectiveness of the person and builds confidence and competency in his leadership. 'The compensation is great in net returns to the individual accepting a calling. The true value of service is derived from the consecration of time and talent to the work of the Lord which, in simple terms, is the uplifting of mankind. References Doctrine and Covenants 58:121. WiptsoE, JoHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 16; 18. TaLMAGE, JAMES E.: Articles of Faith, Chapters 10; 24. SmiTH, Henry A., "Dynamic Leadership of the First Presidency Accelerates Pace of Church-Wide Activity," Church News, December 29, 1962, page 6. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what way does the law of consecration apply in this lesson? 2. What human characteristics interfere most with service in behalf of and consideration for the welfare of mankind? 3. What is the importance of a lay leadership in the plan of salvation? What are the opportunities that arise out of service in the Church program? 5. What is the proper procedure for notifying a person of his selection for an office in the Church? 6. What is the problem involved in this quotation 'Many are called, but few are chosen''? —— Gladys Hesser Burnham When YOU were I kisseq smal] and by them MPs and SCratches Came etter ang hey Mende Well: u der and hea iS My kisses ren' ed Surprise, " my darling Spoke — M alive: 79 ~ s, ee al % Py ff } Pe 4 vs FOAL, (f Uy a One Hundred Mrs. SOPHIA HARSCH Nauvoo, Illinois Mrs. ANN ELIZA ALLEN COOMBS Centerville, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. RACHEL MIDDLETON JENSEN Ogden, Utah Mrs. ANNIE M. ROBERTS SMITH Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. CHARLOTTE THOMAS KAY Ogden, Utah Mrs. Louisa HAAG ABEGG DONE Tucson, Arizona Ninety-three Mrs. Mary LAMBERT HUSSEY Ogden, Utah Mrs. NANCY ELIZABETH C. WALKER Augusta, Georgia Mrs. MIRINDA SNOW FRANDSEN Provo, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. AMELIA HEPPLER HANSEN Richfield, Utah WO — Nh (YeGpta hddaliiveb d 7 Mrs. FRANCES LATHROP LEBO Bakersfield, California Mrs. Nancy B. WALKER Augusta, Georgia Mrs. OLIVE LOUISE HARRIS VINCENT Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. LORETTA TUCKER JOHNSON Berkeley, California Mrs. ABBIE JANE MOYER WILLDEN Price, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. ROSATHA DOUGLAS REVOR Ogden, Utah Mrs. ELIZABETH BURT SHIPLEY Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Mary LEE WILSON MYERS American Fork, Utah Mrs. DELLA BUNKER LISONBEE Delta, Utah Mrs. SARAH P. STEVENSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. JESSIE BOWERS SMITH INMAN Phoenix, Arizona INTERNATIONAL DIRECTORY OF WOMEN'S ORGANIZATIONS The first comprehensive listing in handy reference form More than 300 National and International Women's Organizations Includes names, addresses, convention dates and places, and other useful information. Sponsored by the National Council of Women of the United States Hard Cover — Price $2.50 per copy Order from and make check or money order payable to: NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES 345 East—4e6th Street New York City, New York 10017 ROSE PARADE Leave December 27 Return January 3 By way of Las Vegas fa HAWAII Next Hawaiian Tour Depart February 1964 fp MEXICO — 1964 <-> WORLD'S FAIR — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours — Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles _.39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.45 Over 1800 miles.87 600 to 1000 miles.54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. A PESERET[fPews PREsS — 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah am P ~T 4 N f RUA f wrkk SC THY "QQ qi CW 1 Cc a) i. F I aw J yi OC t+ Y J \ y wy | { 1. ANSWERS TO GOSPEL QUESTIONS Volume IV by President Joseph Fielding Smith A new volume in President Smith's 'Answers to Gospel Questions" series. This book is full of the profound scripture-backed wisdom of President Smith and answers many of the complex doctrinal questions of our time. $2.75 Volumes I, 1! & Ill also available at the same price. 2. LATTER-DAY PROPHETS AND THE DOCTRINE & COVENANTS Volume | (Sections 1 - 41) by Roy W. Doxey Here is a brilliant text that offers commentary on the nts t first forty-one sections of the Doctrine and Covenants as found in the addresses of First Presidencies, Quorums of the Twelve, and Presiding Patriarchs of the Church from Joseph Smith to the present. This is the first of a series that the author is writing. $3.95 Deseret Book is Your Headquarters for the Best in Church Literature The, poet je and Cove Se edt ewes cdenennucescarscautimecstll re - - < = lg comes" | Deseret Book 44 East South Temple mt Pn? Le Salt Lake City, Utah } 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL Gentlemen: Enclosed please find a } SALT LAKE CITY check [] money order (] Ihave an if 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN account, please charge []. Amount en- 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA " closed._ for the encircled Se _ = hn C — ea ee numbered books: ] 2 " Seas; — | a CC i City =: oe ___ cnZone --.----Sita. _.____._ somes. Sag Residents of Utah please add 2% sales tax 
