
DECEMBER 1964 Lessons for March Three Shepherds Eva Willes Wangsgaard In after years when they were asked What part of that strange sight Cut deepest, setting them apart Through time beyond that night: "It was the light,'' the first one said, 'Such radiance as would seem That all the suns of all past years Were caught within one beam."' 'It was the song,'' the second said, "Blest music of the spheres That poured through heaven's open door Still rings within my ears." 'lt was the message,'' said the third. ''Poor shepherds as we are — The Son of God, the way of peace, Are ours beneath his star." The Cover: Madonna and Child, from a painting by Domenico Ghirlandaio Courtesy National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., Samuel H. Kress Collection Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: HM Three Shepherds, H. Armstrong Roberts Art Layout: J Dick Scopes Illustrations: HM Mary Scopes The Magazine are no emb of the Church especially enjoye th serial "Your Heart to jnderstanding,"" y Hazel M Thomson orked on 4 Primary stake poard with this dear sister many years ago. She is a very onderful person Mrs. Eva Kohkonen Helsinki Finlan | have just read the first chapter of "The Turn of the Wheel," bY Mabel Heidelbere: Germany). Myself, 1 relived piace 'S grea While | many! Erved in the Relief Society presidency Mary Stevenson Salt Lake City, utah Many thanks for The Relief Society i j o much, and my friends who are not meme wonderfu sisters in this branch of Relief Society i It is good to know that we have sisters in many \ands. Marion Hanna Portadown, Armagh Northern \reland 882, am mos grateful to my faithful Magazine epresentatlv Maudene South, f m_ the gden Fifty-third Ward W made it possib! For the Magazine to follow me to Tahiti, where \ a with my husband o is a Church pbuilding superv! Every ideas of things t } am busy gathering and pres g lovely Tahitian flowers to mak parchmen correspon ence ards as illustrated in the n | have been taking The Relief S0- ry thirt five years, i it. The many C hem in Book of embrance Percilla ndeen E| Monte alifornia lam writing to tell you of my deeP gratitude for The Relief Society Magazine, and 

Volume 51 December 1964 Number 12 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 884 Effects of Home Influence WN. Eldon Tanner 898 The 1964 Relief Society Annual General Conference Hulda Parker 931 Christmas Seals — A Needed Gift James E. Perkins Appointments to the General Board 895 Edythe Kimball Watson Ellen Neilson Barnes 896 Kathryn Smith Gilbert Verda Fox Burton 897 Myrtle Robison Olson Alice Colton Smith Fiction 902 Turn of the Wheel — Chapter 3 Mabel Harmer 932 The Christmas Gift Kathryn E. Franks General Features 882 From Near and Far 908 Editorial: "Who's on The Lord's Side, Who?" Marianne C. Sharp 910 The 134th Semi-Annual Church Conference 912 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 960 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 914 Christmas in Gold and Green 917 Strawberries Decorate a Holiday Table 918 "Golden" Pictures Made From Keepsakes Beatrice S. Poelman 920 Christmas Comes in Color Florence S. Jacobsen 923 The Christmas Tree Wears Roses 924 Old-Fashioned Hardtack Candy Fran Dunford 925 A Table Tells the Christmas Story 926 Grand Junction Stake Gift Bazaar 928 A Candy House for Christmas 934 Lucy Andrews Lives in a World of Handiwork Lessons for March 935 Theology — The Revelation on Priesthood (Continued) Roy W. Doxey 940 Visiting Teacher Message — "For the Word of the Lord Is Truth." Christine H. Robinson 942 Work Meeting — The Eternal Family Alberta H. Christensen 946 Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part II 951 Social Science — The Value of Church Activity Ariel S. Ballif Poetry 881 Three Shepherds — Frontispiece Eva Willes Wangsgaard Christmas 1897, by Enola Chamberlin, 894; The Shepherds, by Lela F. Morris, 911; May There Always Be a Christmas, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 913; A Word, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 930; Again Tonight, by Christie Lund Coles, 958. CER Se Soe RA eS. EE EO Ee ED ee RD PE ORR Gere ae 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a. Copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Monuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts A ger ee — 

President N. Eldon Tanner of the First Presidency (Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964) 1 stand before you, my brothers and sisters, in all humility, and pray that the spirit of the Lord will be with us, as it has been through this meeting. I wish to congratulate this chorus of Singing Mothers for the lovely singing they have rendered for us this afternoon. I have appreciated and been inspired by the lovely talks that have been given. Though this is a humbling experience, it is indeed a privilege and a joy to bring greetings and blessings from-the First Presidency to you assembled in this great Relief Society conference. Ten thousand leaders of the greatest women's' organization in the world! What an inspiring sight! What a lovely sweet spirit we have had with us today! And what a wonderful work you are doing for the members of the Relief Society and for all who need 884 your help, and for the Church as a whole; and, in fact, your influence is being felt throughout the world. ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY You have been reminded time after time that your Relief Society was organized under the inspiration and direction of a Prophet of God. Your devoted leaders, Sister Spafford, Sister Sharp, and Sister Madsen are carrying on under the direction of a loving, inspired prophet today. You all know how President McKay loves and respects the mothers and women in the Church, in fact, all womanhood. I quote from one of his statements: "A beautiful, modest, gracious woman is creation's masterpiece; when to these virtues a woman possesses, as guid- ing stars in her life, righteousness and godliness, and an irresistible impulse and desire to make others happy, no one will question if she be classed among those who are truly great."' President McKay is truly a prophet of God and what a strength you must feel in knowing {hat he loves you and is praying for your success and well-being every day. Also, with the association of your Advisers, the General Authorities, and with the President of the Church himself, you have the guidance of the Priesthood, which is not enjoyed by any other women's organization in the world. The work and accomplishments of this great organization have been outstanding throughout the years. I should like to refer to two real contributions and accomplishments this year with which I am personally acquainted. THE SINGING MOTHERS First, is the Singing Mothers who sang at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City in May, at the time of the Awards Luncheon of the American Mothers Committee Incorporated. The other is the Singing Mothers who sang in July at the New York World's Fair. As Sister Tanner and I attended the Singing Mothers Concert at the World's Fair, we were deeply impressed, in fact, we were thrilled to be members of the Church to which they belonged. Though the people were there to see the sights of the World's Fair, they remained by the hundreds to hear the chorus to the end, and, at the EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE close, they gave a standing ovation of appreciation. The women were inspired; they had fasted and prayed; they sang more beautifully as a result of the Spirit of the Lord which accompanied them, and which was felt by those who listened. I have here today a scrapbook which contains news clippings from 372 newspapers, scattered throughout forty States of the Union, and one from Canada. | cannot show you these so you can see them, but it certainly is encouraging to me and helps me understand how this great work is appreciated throughout this country. We see pictures that these big newspapers in California and other States use — space like this where the pictures of the Singing Mothers are shown. Here is another one, and they are scattered throughout this book. Here they have given another space for the picture of the Church Pavilion at the Fair. I could show you several others, but you cannot see them from where you are, but it does show how the influence of the Singing Mothers has been felt throughout: this country. As I look through the book, I find a number of articles from each of the following states: California, Indiana, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Texas, and others. Though I cannot vouch for the statistics and the figures which are given here, I want you to know what the world is saying about our Singing Mothers and the effect they are having in different areas. I want to read these, because then you know just what is being said about the 885 DECEMBER 1964 work of this great organization, the Singing Mothers, whom the world knows. From the Toronto Telegram, Canada, May 9, 1964: None of the women drink or smoke and they are encouraged to keep their figures by diet.... They are taught how to dress, sit, walk, apply makeup, and generally present their best self to the world.... From instruction by Relief Society members, Mormon women make their own clothes and put on a fashion show.... They study the finest literature in courses rated at university level.... Another of their sayings is "Under the refining influence of Mormonism, we develop gifts within us." From the Washington Post, in Washington, D. C., by Ann Wood, May 10, 1964: One hundred and twenty women from the District, Maryland and Virginia, have been meeting every Monday since early March to rehearse for their appearance today with the Singing Mothers Chorus at the New York World's Fair; and, wasting no time, have spent all of the scheduled three hours singing each Monday. Under the direction of Ellen Barnes, who commutes the rest of each week to Boston, New York, and Philadelphia, to rehearse the two hundred women in other sections of the chorus; the women came from as far away as one hundred seventy miles to participate. Members of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints (Mormon), the women began last Monday with a prayer "to go forth as a missionary group and further Thy work here" and then rehearsed today's program of religious, patriotic, and popular favorites including, "How Lovely Is Thy Dwelling Place," "Give Me Your Poor, Your Tired," and "You'll Never Walk Alone." Mrs. Barnes, looking calm and composed, in spite of her hectic schedule, commented that a spirit of service is a major reason for the quality of the Mormon singing groups. B86 Now we go to the Boston Sunday Globe, Massachusetts, by Mary Sarah King, May 31, 1964: The Relief Society, which has been described as 'Mormon Angels of Mercy," is the oldest national women's organization in America. It started one hundred twenty-two years ago, and it now has five thousand five hundred chapters around the globe, comprising 262,000 members in fiftytwo countries. One of the activities for self-improvement and _ self-expression, the chorus of Singing Angels, enables its members to sing "for the sheer joy of singing" — a vital part of the Mormon religion. Mrs. Ward C. Lowe, Newton Center, President of the Relief Society, pointed out that of three hundred mothers, who form the Boston chorus, seventy-five percent are converts, "mainly of old Yankee stock." When writing their stories on the appearance of the Singing Mothers at the Fair, the reporters also included much general Church information, such as membership statistics and growth, and missionary work, aims and ideals, etc. I should like to read just a little of that. From the Patriot Ledger, Quincy, Massachusetts, by Dorothy Newell, Patriot Ledger Religion Editor, May 29, 1964: An intense love for God and their fellowmen has earned respect for Mormon missionaries in this area. In Weston where a ward has been organized only a few years almost a hundred percent growth has occurred in two years. The Mormons offer no ease in Zion that might appeal to non-members. Instead, it would seem emphasis on tithing, strict Sabbath observance, temperance, and church attendance would be a deterrent rather than an attraction. In addition there is the unorthodox acceptance of a temporal leader as "the Lord's appointed prophet," and the Book of Mormon as the "Word. Of God." Nevertheless, the Mormon wards and branches are thriving on a weekly schedule that dwarfs the programs of most Protestant and many Roman Catholic churches. Then I come to the St. Paul Pioneer Press, St. Paul, Minnesota, by Georgann Koelln, May 9, 1964: Mother's place is in the home, according to the basic tenets of the nation's oldest women's organization, the Women's Relief Society of the Mormon Church. Members of the organization's two St. Paul chapters are doing their best to make that place a more interesting one, and the experience of motherhood a more enriching one. Now we come to this big paper, the New York Herald Tribune, by Louise Sweeney, July 2, 1964. They start out by saying: Bach chorales, cranberry relish, and compassion are all part of a program the Mormon church has mapped out for its women. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (known as the Mormon Church), established a woman's Relief Society one hundred twenty two years ago, and it is still going strong. Just a few days ago, one of its channels, the Mormon Singing Mothers, gave a series of concerts in the Church's World's Fair Pavilion; but it is not all Bach and Brahms in the society. In one of the groups' four weekly meetings each month, members learn how to do everything from baking bread to burping a baby. Mrs. Belle Spafford, President of the Society for the past twenty years, explains the homemaking sessions. "If I am not interested in baking bread, but I have a little girl who needs a coat lined, there is something there for me." The something may be learning the thread: count in a sheet or the cheaper cuts of meat. It may even be a course in world literature, EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE which is. On the agenda for the coming year. There is just no limit to the society's tie-ins between the art of homemaking and the other arts. An article in the current Relief Society Magazine is titled, "Emily Dickinson: Occupation - Housekeeper." Readers may bridle at describing the concise poet as a housekeeper, but they can't quarrel with the recipe given for Emily Dickinson's gingerbread. Now I could go on and read. In fact; I had several others here. The Women's Editor of the United Press International, Gay Pauley, wrote a syndicated article which appeared in many of the newspapers; and from which they selected the words for the headlines on the stories, which seemed to carry a general theme, such as: "Mothers Give Pleasure With Music," 'Singing Mothers. Have Lighter Hearts," 'Music Is Good for Women, Good for the Home." The opening statement of her story, and she was quoting Sister Spafford, is: "Singing is good for a woman, good for the home. Women who sing have lighter hearts and happier viewpoints."" I was thrilled to see what a wide coverage the Singing Mothers Concerts were given and how favorably they were reported. Now, Sister Spafford, as President of the Relief Society, is also making her influence felt in the women's' world. Organizations, where she is being listened to and highly respected by women who are in very important positions. The executives of these organizations include leading women from all parts of the world, who are beginning to recognize the high standards of Relief Society and the effect it has on its members and on the community as a whole. B87 DECEMBER 1964 AMERICAN MOTHERS RESOLUTION Now, I should like to read a resolution. This resolution was passed by the American Mothers Committee Incorporated, at the Waldorf-Astoria and signed by Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, the President of this organization: Whereas the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints contributed most generously to the success and pleasure of the annual conference of the American Mothers Committee Incorporated, Waldorf-Astoria, New York, May 3-8, 1964. Be it resolved that the American Mothers Committee in convention assembled expresses its sincere appreciation for the inspiring presentation of the New York Singing Mothers at the 1964 Awards Luncheon at the Waldorf Astoria, which markedly moved the audience, and which furnished the highlight of the occasion. I should like to read an excerpt from a letter from Mr. Ralf Brent, who is president of the WorldWide Broadcasting Association, which is addressed to Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, a copy of which was sent to Sister Spafford: At your American Mothers Committee luncheon at the Waldorf, I saw something which happens all too rarely these days in the United States. I saw an audience of a thousand people become emotionally involved: in some simple basics of life which are often forgotten or ignored. Our veneer of sophistication about our way of life has become so thick that we rately dare to dig into the strength of the grain underneath. When the Singing Mothers sang Emma Lazarus' magnificent words, taken from the base of the Statue of Liberty, I realized how many of us no longer believe that. This is the country of ''the poor, the tired, and the tempest tossed." This magnificent experience made those of us who were there believe again. It must be done over and over. Everyone in America should have been able to share this renewal of the true American spirit. Then he goes on to say to the President: "Dorothy, you are without doubt one of the great women in America and in the world. I cannot tell you how tremendous your American Mothers luncheon was. I cannot explain to myself why we did not broadcast it. Is there a tape available?" THE INFLUENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY Now the work that the Relief Society organization is doing and all that will be done can only be accomplished by the individual members doing their part, and, in fact, one of the great strengths of this Church is the individual testimonies of its members and the lives they live. The old saying that "the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world" is certainly true to the extent that the influence in the home determines more than anything else. The ideals, the ambitions, the attitudes, the vision and success of that individual. I should like to quote from a talk given by President McKay at the time of the dedication of your lovely Relief Society Building: In more than one instance in the life of fiery youth, this lingering influence has proved a safeguard in the hour of temptation — an influence in its restraining power greater than the threat of the law of the land, the ostracism of society, or the fear of violating a command of God. In a moment of youthful recklessness the youth might defy one or all of these forces, and do what his hot blood bade, but at the critical moment, the flash of a mother's confiding trust, the realization of her sorrow if he fail to be true to it have given him power to refrain from indulgence that might blight his entire career. Not only the mother, but the entire influence of home also influences society. Indeed, home is the foundation of civilized society. Words uttered and the doctrines taught around the fireside are the influences that shape the destinies of empires.. Of all human influences those of home are the most far-reaching in their results. "There are many men ay owe their honor, their integrity, and their manhood to the influence of pure minded sisters" (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1956, pp. 805, 806). Now as members of this superior organization and as mothers in Israel, as wives and those who are neither wives nor mothers but members cf thefamilies which make up the community, you have a marvelous opportunity and a. Heavy responsibility of making the: family and community life exemplary in every way. Every daily paper and magazine we pick up today seems to carry amazing and startling reports of juvenile delinquency, vandalism, hooliganism, and youth riots, etc. The causes or contributing factors to all of these are listed as follows: too much money, too much leisure time, boredom, unrest, lack of responsibility, etc. But the home environments are listed as the principal contributing cause. One of the reports of the White House Conference for Children and Youth points out that among the principal contributing causes of crime and delinquency in youth are faulty family relationships and_ unwholesome home _ environment. The report further emphasizes the fact that the bad example of adults is one of the worst contributing causes of drinking, dishonesty, and delinquency. EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE J. Edgar Hoover places great emphasis on the influence of the home and appeals to parents to have a high religious and moral standard of living. Just the other day I read an article, entitled, "Wild Youth: a World-wide Problem," by Geoffrey Lucy. He listed startling examplesof what is going on in different parts of the world. He said that in France, four fifteen-year-old girls wrote statements on separate sheets of paper, saying that one would commit suicide, another would steal, the third be good, and the fourth take a lover. The girls then drew lots, and a few days later, each one carried out the ''promise" she had drawn. In. Britain last spring, this writer reported, eight hundred "rowdies" and four hundred of their girl friends journeyed to Clacton on scooters and motorcycles. And indulged in a threeday riot which scandalized the country. The author related the incident of a seventeen-year-old boy in Brazil who drove his car at full speed through traffic lights in Rio de Janeiro just to see what would happen. He and his fifteen-yearold girl friend were killed, as well as another motorist who was involved in the collision. The author says that the greatest amount of rioting, vandalism, and all kinds of delinquency is found in large cities, and, particularly, in countries where they are most prosperous. He points out that they have much money, but they seem to have neither idealism nor a desire to learn. They are characteristically aimless except when they are 889 DECEMBER 1964 planning some spectacular activity to relieve their pervading sense of boredom. Then they exhibit remarkable energy and enthusiasm, and urge each other to "keep going!" He refers to all of this as "hooliganism," and says that it is on the increase among children of the well-to-do. When asked as to why they do these things, a variety of answers was given, including such motivations as "for kicks," finding something to do with their surplus time and money, or, as one Italian boy explained his reasons for hooliganism, he wanted to demonstrate his capability of doing just. As he pleased. In the article the author considers remedies for such dangerous anti-social behavior, particularly in nations where a high standard of living seems to have an influence on the prevalence of hooliganism. In Denmark some progress has already been made, and the trend towards some abatement of delinquency and _ vandalism _ gives heartening encouragement. Many different types of activities for young people have been organized and offered as substitutes for delinquency and lawlessness. These programs include drama, sports, many types of handicraft, special, supervised entertainment for the holidays, and some assistance to individuals. In the school curriculum. THE INFLUENCE OF THE CHURCH As I read this, I thought how fortunate we in the Church are to have the Church organization which provides all of these 890 things, with devoted leadership for our youth, and how important it is that we as parents and older members of the family support these and encourage our youth to take advantage of their opportunities in these activities. A plan to counteract vandalism in Norway is based upon utilizing the services of reformed vandals who volunteer to guard Frogner Park, where there are many world-famous works of sculpture and other attractions. The boys who are selected. For this purpose also patrol the public swimming pools and become passengers on the Oslo street cars to guard against the slashing of the upholstery in the seats, and other deliberate acts of vandalism. These reformed — delinquents seem to find that being on the side of the law can be as challenging as to indulge in illegal activities. The conclusion of the discussion is particularly illuminating and significant. The inference is made that these and other remedies which may be put into practice, can be only palliatives, for there seems. To be agreement among social workers in every country that the essential solutions to the "thrill" activities of "wild youth" are to be sought in the homes of every land. In the same article there is a quotation from Sir John Hunt, Director of the Duke of Edinburgh's Award Scheme for Youth, which strongly emphasizes the responsibility of parents in training, directing, and governing their children, and that children need the help of parents, not their "recrimination." It is inferred that prosperity makes the parental responsibility even more difficult. Some parents are handicapped in their efforts to train their children by their own desires and their emphasis upon material possessions — a practice which they sometimes pursue to obtain social status. Deceptions are practiced for business advancement, and there may be a callous adherence to many forms of intolerance. All of these practices can become the seeds of misconduct and lawlessness in children, for children are prone to pattern their attitudes and their activities from examples they have encountered in their own homes. RESPONSIBILITY IN THE HOME As President McKay has said, and I should like to emphasize the fact, our greatest responsibility is to our family and the home, and for all of us to live exemplary lives wherever we may be. The Church has given us certain standards and teachings which we accept, and which if lived, will contribute more than anything else to high ideals and good citizenship. I have said many times, and am thoroughly convinced, that if the adults of the community would live as they should religiously, and hold to moral standards which they profess, we would have no juvenile delinquency problems. On the other hand, you have heard it said, and it is true, that by example you can teach a child to hate almost anything, even going to Church. Many of those who speak of and worry so much about delinquency continue to encourage it by their daily actions. How fortunate is the child who EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE lives in a home where the gospel is lived and taught; where there is complete love and harmony; where it is expressed in word and deed by the father to the mother, the mother to the father, and they to the children, and the children to one another; where they are taught to say: "'Please," "Thank you," "I love you," "Your hair looks beautiful," "TI surely like your dress," "Your talk was very good," "I certainly was proud of you today," and to live in a home where mother extols the virtues of the father. PRAYER IN THE HOME What a great influence it has on the child's life when every night and morning the family kneels down in family prayer, and the child realizes that the father or the mother, when leading in prayer, is actually talking to God; that he or she has faith in the Lord; presents his problems, expresses his gratitude, and asks for the blessings of the Lord to attend them in all that they do, knowing that if you "Counsel with the Lord in all thy doings he will direct thee for good"' (Alma 37:37). How important it is that we express our heartfelt gratitude every day for the blessings we receive, and not call on the Lord only when we are in difficulty and feel seriously the need of his help, guidance, and _ direction. When I think of the influence of family prayer in my life, I cannot fully express my feeling of gratitude to my parents. Albert Einstein, speaking of the influence of example, once sald: §91 DECEMBER 1964 I am absolutely convinced that no wealth in the world can help humanity forward, even in the hands of the most devoted worker in this cause. The example of great and pure individuals is the only thing that can lead us to noble thoughts and deeds. Money only appeals to selfishness and irresistibly invites abuse. Can anyone imagine Moses, Jesus or Gandhi armed with the moneybags of Carnegie? I like the Chinese proverb: "Not the cry, but the flight of the wild duck, leads the flock to fly and follow." We can do more good by example than in any other way. COURTESY IN THE FAMILY If the senior members of the family could just realize that as they move from place to place in the home, as they meet one another, as they speak on the telephone, as they show the proper courtesy and respect for one another, they greatly influence the lives of the younger ones, I am sure they would strive to be better examples. What a wonderful influence it would have in the home if we would sincerely set about to treat the members of the family as though they were honored guests in our home. President and Sister McKay are real examples of this. I was thrilled when I read an article by Sister McKay in which she said: I am very, very proud of my husband. He is just as lovely, just as courteous, just as polite, just as kind, just as sweet in our home as he is anywhere else, and I am very proud of him. And I am very grateful for him. I cannot see a thing wrong with him. And I pray that our brethren 892 will try to follow his example in every way, shape and form. A short time ago I was talking to a man whom I would like to see reactivated, and I told him how much activity in the Church would mean to him and his family. He said, "I have as neighbors a family who are considered to be good Church members. The other day I heard her yelling at her husband, and have heard her yell at her children so that I could hear everything she was saying, and I cannot believe that there is a feeling of love in that home." Now this is certainly not good advertising for the Church, and it is not good for the members of the family. We should always be kind to and considerate of one another and of our neighbors. In fact, as one author has said, "Our business is to make ourselves better and others happier, and that is enough to keep us busy." I have known of youth and new converts who have become inactive and left the Church because of actions of members. I have often asked myself, as I am sure you have, what effect are my life and my actions having on those around me, my children, my neighbors, and my friends? Gossip in the home, too, is a very dangerous practice, and should not be indulged in. Very often that which you hear is not true, and if it were, it does not do anyone any good to talk disparagingly about his neighbor. As the beautiful song says, "If you're the first a fault to see, be not the first to make it known." We must love one another. Jesus said: _.. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets (Matt. 22: 37-40). RESPECT FOR AUTHORITY Respect for authority should be taught in the home. It is most important. Children can be taught by the way we act, respect for one another and respect for authority. If a mother or father were to say nothing more than, "TI just don't know why the bishop did that," or "why the stake president doesn't do this,' or "why the General Authority said that," it is encugh to cause the child to wonder if his father or mother does actually support those in authority. It may be that we do not agree, or we cannot understand why things are done as they are done in the Church, but let it always be known that we are prepared and determined to support those who are in authority, knowing that by so doing we cannot go wrong. Do your children know beyond any question of doubt that the gospel means more to you than anything else in the world, that you know that it is true and that it is the plan of life and salvation, and that by living it, it will give you the greatest joy and success in this life, and that it will also prepare you to go back into the presence of our Heavenly Father? Before a teacher is chosen to teach at the Brigham Young EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE University, he is interviewed by one of the General Authorities to determine his worthiness. He is expected to have a_ testimony which radiates wherever he goes. He should be prepared to keep the Sabbath day holy; be a full tithepayer, and be honest, honorable, and upright in all he does, and keep the Word of Wisdom strictly. Now in _ interviewing these applicants, I have taken the position that I would much rather have a nonmember teaching at Brigham Young University than to have a Latter-day Saint teacher who is not prepared to live according to the standards of the Church. That's how important I think example is. The same is true in the home. If the parents break the Word of Wisdom in any way, if they go golfing or swimming, etc., on the Sabbath, no matter what they try to teach their children to do, they leave the impression that it is not important, that it is not necessary to keep the commandments, and to live according to the teachings of the gospel. It is only natural that they want to do as their parents do. Even the way we greet our Home Teachers as they come to visit us can have a great influence on the lives of our children. If we make them welcome, accept them as representatives of the bishop, and listen to them with respect, it will have a great influence for good. On the other hand, if we act as though they are imposing on our time, or inconveniencing us in any way, the far-reaching bad effect cannot be measured. Though our children are born in the Church, they are investigators at 893 DECEMBER 1964 best. They need to be taught the gospel by precept as well as by example. No story is more thrilling and exciting to a child than that of the Prophet Joseph going into the woods to pray, and that God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ appeared to him and talked to him. They can listen to it over and over again. Then to be told how he withstood all temptations, though he was criticized and ridiculed and abused, and had no Sunday School or Church to attend from the time he was fifteen until eighteen years of age; how the angel appeared to him; and how John the Baptist and Peter, James, and John came to him, can be most impressive. In fact, there is nothing more appealing to children than the beautiful stories contained in the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and in Church history, and the simple principles of the gospel as taught by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Now, my brothers and sisters, I should like to bear you my testimony to the truthfulness of the gospel as taught by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I wish to assure you that if you take this gospel seriously, and you must, into your homes and each of you live it every day in your community, your influence will be felt and you will be filling your mission. Here upon the earth. I further wish to bear my witness that God does live, that Jesus is the Christ, and that they are interested in us, and stand ready to answer our prayers. Further, that we have at the head of the Church today a prophet of God directing this work. May we all be worthy of these things, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Christmas 1897 Enola Chamberlin So young | was | would not now remember Were | not often told in later days, That we were threading through the late December Across the desert's solitary ways — Until we reached where mountains cut the sky, And climbed them with the horses' heavy tramp, To heavy clouds where cold winds scurried by; And drew aside to make our night-time camp. We slept within the wagon, snug below The heavy canvas top, and waked to see The bare ground laid across with glistening snow, As jeweled gifts held out by every tree. My father bowed his head, ''Come, let us pray, And thank God for this lovely Christmas day." 894 ie " Edythe Kimball Watson, Salt Lake City, Utah, was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 30,.1964. A daughter of S. Farnham Kimball and Margaret Dunn Kimball, she was born in Raymond, Alberta, Canada. Her parents on both sides of the family were of illustrious Latter-day Saint heritage and devoted to the Church. She is a great-granddaughter of Heber: C. Kimball, who was a counselor to President Brigham Young. She was educated in the Raymond High School and the L. D. S. University. Her Church work has included teaching and executive positions in Sunday School and the Young: Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and many years of Relief Society service. She has been a ward class leader in social science and. Theology, and a vis- 'ting teacher message leader, counselor, and president. She has acted in a stake capacity as literature and social science class leader, and as president. Sister Watson and her husband John Francis Watson are parents of Jane Ellen W. Hales, President of Butte Stake Mutual Improvement Association, and mother of the two Watson grandchildren; John Kimball Watson, who with his wife Barbara Brown Watson are students at the University of Utah; Mark Kimball Watson and Mary Francis Watson,-. High school students. A wen, Ellen Neilson Barnes, appointed to the General Board on September 30, 1964 was born in Logan, Utah, a daughter of Peter M. Neilson and Adelaide Cornelia Keaton. She was educated at the Brigham Young College in Logan and at the New England Conservatory of Music. She studied in Paris and Berlin. Sister Barnes has contributed her music talents freely to Church and community activities in Washington, D. C. She is a concert pianist and chorister in Washington Stake. She directed the chorus of a _ hundred Singing. Mothers from. New York and New Jersey' Stakes at the: Rainbow Awards Luncheon for the American Mother of 1964 at the Waldorf-Astoria. "She also directed the three hundred Singing Mothers' Concerts at the World's Fair on June 24 and 25, 1964, with Sister Florence Madsen as an associate conductor. Sister Barnes' husband is Maurice Barnes, an = attorney. They are parents of two sons and two daughters. Maurice Jr. And David both filled missions in England. Mary Ellen (Mrs. Thomas H. Caine) lives in Madison, Wisconsin, and Carolyn is a student at the University of Utah. Sister Barnes brings to the General Board an inspiring personality, a devotion to the Church and Relief Society, and the great gift of music. 895 Kathryn Smith Gilbert, appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 30, 1964, is a native of Beaver City, Utah, a daughter of Robert H. Smith and Caroline Carlow Smith. She attended the Murdock Academy in Beaver and received a B. S. Degree from Brigham Young University. Her post-graduate work was done at the University of California, Berkeley, the University of Mexico, and the University of Washington at Bellingham. She taught school in Cedar City and Salt Lake City, Utah. Sister Gilbert's husband is Alonzo J. Gilbert, and she has two stepsons Jessie L. And Milton L. Gilbert, and nine grandchildren. She was a Gleaner leader in the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association for twenty years, and served for ten years on the General Board of the Primary Association. She has been a visiting teacher, class leader, and a social science class leader in the Monument Park Second Ward Relief Society, and has demonstrated marked qualities of leadership. She is writing a set of lessons on The Book of Mormon for Lamanite Relief Societies at the present' time. The devotion and dedicated service of this warm-hearted and lovely woman will be of much value to the General Board and to all privileged to know her. 896 Verda Fox Burton, appointed to the General Board of Relief Society September 30, 1964, was born in American Fork, Utah, to James Isaac Fox and Mabel Edith Williams Fox. Sister Burton and her husband Archie Hunter Burton live in Salt Lake City, Utah. They have two sons, Archie Duane Burton and Ronald B. Burton. There are _ seven grandchildren. Sister Burton was educated in Salt Lake City public schools, the L. D. S. Business College, and the University of Utah. She is an efficient accountant and has assisted her husband in his business affairs. She has served as president of Relief Society in two wards, and has been a theology class leader and a visiting teacher for many years. Also, she has served in executive positions in ward and stake Primary Associations, the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and in Sunday School. She has an active interest in genealogical research and shares this enthusiasm with others. Sister Burton's call to the General Board has come at the completion of a mission to Australia, where she served with her husband. Her devotion to the gospel, her deep understanding of its principles, her friendliness and her love of people and her concern for their welfare will contribute valuable service in her new assignment. os ti: Es Myrtle Robison Olson, who was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 30, 1964, was born in Pleasant Grove, Utah, a daughter of Guy K. Robison and Susan Nilsson Robison. She was educated in Salt Lake City and attended the L. D. S. Business College and studied extension courses at the University of Utah. Her husband is Albert M. Olson, and they have three sons and a daughter: Albert M. Olson, Valerie Olson Cooper, Robert David Olson, and Thomas Roger Olson, now serving in the Irish Mission. There are three grandchildren. In Relief Society she has served as ward work meeting leader, visiting teacher message leader, education counselor, and president. In stake capacities, she has been education counselor and president. She has brought to her many assignments a willing spirit, great enthusiasm, friendliness, humility, and appreciation for her associates. Her deep and quiet faith serves as a directive and a source of strength for herself and for those who are privileged to be her companions in service. Sister Olson is an efficient and devoted homemaker. She is an excellent cook, an efficient seamstress, and her knitting and other handwork have inspired many Relief Society sisters to similar accomplishments. She will lend strength to and be a devoted member of the General Board. Sme east ¢ s 3 a" Alice Colton Smith, appointed to the General Board of Relief Society September 30, 1964, is a daughter of Don B. Colton, who was a United States Congressman from Utah, and Grace Stringham Colton. Her husband is W. Whitney Smith. They live in Logan, Utah. They have a son Phillip C. Smith and a daughter Carolyn C. Smith. Another daughter, Annette C. Smith is deceased. Mrs. Smith attended the Utah State University, where she obtained a Master's Degree. She also studied at the University of Utah, Columbia University, and George Washington University. She has served as a literature and social science class leader and as a branch president. She was Relief Society president of the Austrian Mission during 1960-63, while her husband was mission president. Sister Smith is an experienced and effective public speaker and has had much experience on the lecture platform.-She is at present a part-time teacher at Utah State University. She was a member of the Utah State Textbook and Curriculum Commission 1958-60. While her husband was on the staff of the American Embassy in Israel, she was asked to be chairman of the Embassy Committee on Israel-American relations. She is an inspirational, loving, and believing woman, and will add great strength to the General Board. 897 1964 Relief Society Annual General Conference Hulda Parker General. Secretary-Treasurer A warm spirit of joyful anticipation filled the air on Tuesday, September 29, as Relief Society leaders from all over the Church began to converge in Salt Lake City prior to the opening of the 1964 Relief Society Annual General Conference. Each leader was eagerly looking forward to receiving inspiration, specifieinstruction, and uplift that would enable her more effectively to carry forward and build up the work of Relief Society. Through-. Out the world. The main floor and some of -the balcony of the~ historic Tabernacle on Temple Square were - filled as these stake and mission Relief Society leaders and also. Some Priesthood leaders assembled for the opening. Session on Wednesday morning,. Septem-. Ber 30, and united in spirit and voice by singing, "O Beautiful for Spacious Skies." The special music for this session was inspiringly rendered by a 200-voice chorus of Singing Mothers from the Kansas City Stake directed by Joyce H. Sanders and Josephine H. McCall. Elder Roy M. Darley accompanied at the organ and also provided beautiful prelude and postlude music. 898 President Belle S. Spafford, in her twentieth year of presiding over Relief Society, conducted all of the Tabernacle sessions of the conference, supported by her Counselors Marianne C. Sharp ard Louise W. Madsen. President Spafford opened. The conference with a report of the progress made by Relief Societies through= out the Church during.1963, gave pertinent instructions relative to~ - new aspects of the. Relief Seciety program, and re-emphasized certain basic policies for guiding the work. The roll call conducted by Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker revealed the attendance at this session of 3,427 stake and 209 mission Relief Society leaders from 378 stakes and 23 missions throughout the Church. President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Marion G. Romney, both Relief Society Advisers from the Council of the Twelve, addressed this session of the conference with stirring messages -of instruction and encouragement.. Elder Romney reminded -the siters of the important responsibility of mothers to bring up their children "in light and. Truth." He recommended as. An-aid for doing 1964 RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE this, a study of the standard works of the Church and recognition of and obedience to the guidance of the Holy Spirit. President Smith, the concluding speaker for this session, contrasted and compared the status of women in the Church in this and previous dispensations; and spoke of the opportunities for the women of the Church for service through the divinely established organization of Relief Society. He referred to this as "'a divinely appointed service so essential to the welfare of the Church." For the general session on Wednesday afternoon, Relief Society members and the general public filled the Tabernacle and extended to an overflow audience in the Assembly Hall, where the conference proceedings were witnessed over television. Relief Society leaders were honored to have in attendance at this and also the preceding session of the conference several members of the General Authorities and their Wives. Of interest at this session was the sustaining of ten new general board members since the previous conference, making a total of forty-seven sisters presently serving on the General Board. Sister Winniefred S. Manwaring addressed this session. She spoke of the strength that comes into our lives through trusting in the Lord when coping with life's sorrows and difficulties. President Spafford and_ her counselors gave inspiring messages to the women of the Church. President Spafford emphasized the value to mothers of wise and understanding hearts in training their children in the paths of righteousness. She cited salient teachings of spiritual leaders in this and former dispensations, setting forth guidance in training and rearing children. Counselor Sharp told of the bless. Ings gained through Relief Society in helping women more fully to follow the admonition of the Savior to "take my yoke upon you." Counselor Madsen used as her theme that happiness is the purpose and design of existence and suggested factors essential to the achievement of happiness. President N. Eldon Tanner, Second Counselor in the First Presidency and _ the _ principal speaker at the general session, delivered a moving message. He delighted the vast audience by sharing with them an interesting account of the success of the Singing Mothers Chorus which presented music at the American Mothers Awards Luncheon in New York City in May, and of the larger combined chorus which presented concerts at the New York World's Fair in June. He displayed to those assembled the large scrapbook containing clippings from 372 newspapers throughout the United States and in Canada relative to Relief Society and the Church resulting from the publicity given to these concerts. Elder Tanner then outlined the value of good example and teachings in the home in properly influencing and training children. This inspiring session was concluded by the glorious singing of "Onward Christian Soldiers" by the combined Singing Mothers Chorus from the Deseret, Gunnison, Juab, Millard, North San- 899 DECEMBER 1964 pete, South Sanpete, Garfield, North Sevier, Sevier, South Sevier, and Wayne Stakes. The chorus was directed by Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board, with Elder Roy M. Darley at the organ. Due to building construction surrounding the Relief Society Building, the reception usually held on the Wednesday evening of the Conference for stake and mission officers had been cancelled. The Thursday morning session on October 1, was a departmental meeting in the Tabernacle featuring the three courses of study and the visiting teacher messages for the coming season. The visiting teacher presentation 'Beyond Each Door," written by Alberta H. Christensen, depicted blessings that may be realized in homes throughout the Church through application of the visiting teacher messages. The enlightenment that can come into a woman's life through study of the teachings contained in the Doctrine and Covenants was dramatically portrayed in the theology presentation "The Lighted Path," by Luacine C. Fox. "Out of the Best Books" was the title of the presentation written by Celestia J. Taylor introducing the new literature course which portrayed some of the authors to be studied and some of the selections. The textbook with this same title which had been prepared at the direction of the General Board was also featured. The concluding year of the social science course of study, "Divine Law and Church Government," which has been written by Dr. Ariel S. 500 Ballif, was featured by an excellent address by Dr. Ballif. The message of the course was further highlighted through impressive scriptural readings by Genevieve F. Wright and a beautiful duet by J. Stuart and Clara McMaster. Separate departments for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, music leaders, Magazine representatives, visiting teacher message leaders, theology, literature, and social science class leaders, and work meeting leaders were conducted in the afternoon for the respective stake and _ mission leaders, at which specific instructions related to the various areas of the work were presented. An outstanding display of articles suitable for work meeting activities was a part of the work meeting department. General Authorities addressed two of the departments — Elder Harold B. Lee, a Relief Society Adviser from the Council of the Twelve, spoke to stake and mission Relief Society presidencies. Elder Lee emphasized the importance of gospel teaching in the home and told of the plan for coordinating these teachings in the home through the Priesthood, with special emphasis on the responsibility of Relief Society members as mothers in this home teaching. Elder Paul H. Dunn of the First Council of Seventy discussed with theology class leaders techniques for conducting stimulating class discussions to assure the sisters gaining the most from the lessons. As the respective departmental sessions concluded, a spirit of gratitude for the blessings of the past two days filled the hearts of all in attendance, with a re-_ tive areas the Instructions as wel] solve to carry back to the ward as the Spirit of this great Relief and branch leaders in the TespecSociety conference. Sake 2 deters pepe PIL SO era gh as, tye RW ora cee rk cee Re tar eee Sy Bee BERL aan <a og nt el. Bey Gag "se? % ew SEE en! "ot *. 2 bers ee WAS Ce Fe wae at Y. Aks & a vic Pt: ah 5 Sd rae aaa Y Aa OBEhey Se mosle! 93 Members not Present: Aleine TM. Young, Edith P. Backman, Celestia J. Taylor, Edythe kK. Watson, Ellen N. Barnes, Kathryn S. Gilbert, Verda F. Burton, Myrtle R. Olson, and Alice C. Smith 901 The Turn of the Wheel Mabel Harmer Elsa Breinholt meets Clay Knowlton, from Salt Lake City, stationed with the United States Army in Heidelberg. She is eager to come to America and quickly takes advantage of his offer to have her sponsored by his family. Her widowed mother had hoped that she would stay in Germany and continue her growing friendship with Karl Ernst. It was a lovely day in mid-autumn when Elsa left for Bremerhaven to board the ship for America. Heidelberg had never looked more beautiful. The hills were never more green — the river never more inviting. "And yet it goes eagerly on toward the ocean," she told herself. 'The same as I." Her mother and Maria went with her to the station, and, at the last moment, Karl came tearing up. "I had a hard time getting away from my work," he said breathlessly. 'I had to threaten the boss' life to get away at all." "Perhaps you won't have to do that again," laughed Maria. "You may not have a job at all when you get back." "Then you will have to care for me," he replied. 902 CHAPTER 3 j | Mrs. Breinholt was not laughing — nor even smiling. Elsa knew well enough that if there had been any way right now to put a stop to the trip, her mother would have done so quickly. She had half hoped that Clay would also be at the station, but she knew that it was not as easy to get off from military duty as from a job. The announcer called her train, and she kissed her mother and Maria goodbye. She turned to Karl last. '"'Auf Wiedersehen," he said, holding her hand tightly. '"'Auf Wiedersehen," she smiled. "Auf Wiedersehen." At this last moment tears blinded her eyes, and she ran toward her car. Once aboard and moving through the countryside, her tears quickly dried and she enjoyed the passing scene. Her spirits soared again. She was on her way at last! At long last she was going to see the world. At the harbor she went aboard at once and was shown to a small stateroom in the tourist class. The enormous size of the ship was overwhelming. It was all so shining and sparkling clean it looked as if no one had ever stepped a foot inside before. There were two berths in the room, but no one else came in. The room steward told her that the other lady was probably boarding at Southampton, where the ship took on the majority of its passengers. She had been in her room just long enough to start unpacking, when there was a knock at the door and a porter handed her a basket of flowers. The card read "Have fun — Clay." Esa thought it was the most delightful surprise of her entire life. It was a good omen, she decided, of the wonderful things that were to come into her life now. She set the flowers on the small dressing table and hurried up on deck. She must not miss the departure, even if there was but a small crowd on the pier to see them off and very few other passengers. She knew that the ship would make one stop at Le Havre before going on to Southampton. The great ship moved out of the. Harbor so easily that she could hardly believe they were leaving until the shoreline began to recede. Only then did she realize that she was leaving her 'homeland — and for how long, no one'knew. It could be forever. There was a lump in her throat as she whispered, "Auf Wiedersehen." She was eager to meet her roommate and stood on the deck at Southampton as each passenger came aboard. The train with the tourist class passengers had THE TURN OF THE WHEEL come down from London first, and when all of them apparently had come on the ship, she hurried down to her stateroom again. She found it occupied by a young woman, perhaps a few years older than she. Elsa noticed that she was wearing a _ wedding ring. "Hello," she said, holding out her hand, "I am Elsa Breinholt."' "Cynthia Winters," replied the other. 'I am very happy to meet you." Elsa knew at once that she was an American. "You have been over here on a visit?" she asked. The young woman's face clouded. "No — not. Exactly," she said, as she turned and began unpacking a case. "My husband was stationed here with the Air Force. There was a crash a month ago." "Oh! I'm so sorry!" cried Elsa softly. 'So now you are going home?" "I suppose so." Cynthia shrugged as if it couldn't really matter very much where she went. She managed a faint smile as she glanced toward the flowers and said, "'I see that you have an admirer."' "Yes." Elsa blushed. ''At least, he sent me these flowers. He is also an American. A soldier — stationed in Heidelberg — my home." "And you are going over to meet his folks?" "Oh, no! It is not serious. I am going over simply because I -want to go to America. His family did sponsor me, however, and I shall go to their home when I first arrive. They live in Salt Lake City." "It sounds just a bit on the serious side to me," Cynthia in- 903 DECEMBER 1964 sisted. Then she added, "My home is in Wisconsin. That is a long way from Utah." Cyntuia finished her unpacking and they went up to the dining room for lunch. They were assigned to a table with four others, a middle-aged couple from England going over for a visit with a married daughter, and two young boys who had been touring Europe. "On a shoestring and a fourleaf clover,' announced one of them cheerfully. 'So don't be surprised or embarrassed if we order everything on the menu. We have to make up for a lot of under-par meals."' Elsa found plenty to do on board to keep her busy and happy. There was a movie every day — a small library — games in the lounge, and a few hours of sunshine on the deck assigned to the tourist class passengers. In the daily ship newspaper she was surprised to see notice of a Latter-day Saint service to be held in the cabin class lounge. "Look!" she exclaimed. "'Some of my Church members have a service here tomorrow! Isn't that wonderful?" "What is your church?" asked Cynthia. "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is usually called the Mormon Church. Do you know anything about it?' "A little. We did go to the chapel in London, where we heard an organ recital and a brief talk. It was really exceptionally good. And I have seen the temple a few miles outside of London. We didn't go in, however." It was on the tip of Elsa's 904 tongue to say, "You couldn't." Instead, she said, '"Wouldn't you like to go with me tomorrow?" "Yes, why not!" she replied with another shrug. "It will be something to do." Elsa could hardly wait until the time to go into the service. She found about twenty people gathered in the lounge. There were seven young men, returning from missions, who took charge. The other people were tourists who had come from various parts of the ship. The young man who greeted them asked if anyone could play the piano, and was delighted when Elsa told him that she could One of the group led the singing. Two others gave the prayers and the talks. One spoke on eternal marriage, and Elsa could not help noting the deep interest with which Cynthia listened. Later, when they had returned to their own room, Cynthia said, "About that eternal marriage — your Church really believes that a man and his wife are married forever—not just until death?" "Yes, indeed. Is it not a beautiful thought? That is part of the ceremonies that take place in the temple you saw in England." "It would be a_ beautiful thought, if one could have any assurance that it is so." "That is something you would have to find out for yourself," said Elsa simply. "But how?" "It is easy, really. You can get in touch with missionaries when you return home. We have them almost everywhere now. Perhaps there is a branch of the Church right in your own town." CyYnTHIA turned away. "But it is too late now, for Ralph and me." "Tt is never too late to plan for eternity," said Elsa. "What do you mean?" "T cannot explain it all well enough. But if you will just see the missionaries, they will tell you." "But these missionaries—why, they are only boys! Those we saw today can't be much more than twenty years old." "That is right. Most of them are in their early twenties. They spend two years or more in the field. Not only do they go without pay, but they take care of all their own expenses while they are abroad." "But why?" "'Because they have something very precious and wonderful to share with everyone in the world. You will see that is true, if you will just give yourself — the chance." Cynthia said no more, but Elsa was quite sure she had been impressed enough so that she would remember. They reached New York early on Tuesday morning and missed breakfast in order to stand on the deck and be greeted by the Statue of Liberty and the magnificent skyline of the great city. "Are you stopping over here-at all?" asked Cynthia "No. I cannot afford to do so, much as I would like. I am going straight to a bus station and take the first one out for Salt Lake City." "That's an awful long ride," said Cynthia. 'You'll be dead tired without any stops.' THE TURN OF THE WHEEL "Then IT'll go to sleep," said Elsa cheerfully. "Clay told me to get out and walk around at each rest stop, and it wouldn't be too bad. Besides, it will be a wonderful way to see the country." "You'll sure see a lot of it before you get to Utah. And some of it is going to look mighty dry and barren after what you're used to in Europe. If you were just going to Wisconsin now..." Cynthia sighed.... "It's gorgeous in the fall." "Then I'm glad for your sake," said Elsa. "I hope it will be very bright for you." They said goodbye, and Elsa took a taxi to the bus station. Even that short ride through the busy streets of New York was an exciting adventure. Everything had been wonderful so far. Surely the future would be also! Leaving the city again was interesting. There seemed to be no end to the industrial section. But at last, they had left it behind and were out in the open country. She remembered Clay's advice to do all the walking she could at any stop and so far, was enjoying every mile of the trip. The countryside was interesting and beautiful in the fall colors. She was deeply content. THE bus reached Chicago just after noon the next day, and she had a four-hour stopover before leaving again for the West. She walked down one of the streets from the station and was amazed at all the noise and bustle. There were more automobiles than she had seen in all of her life before — and more people. She wasn't sure that she liked it at all, and 905 DECEMBER 1964 it made her think, with something akin to nostalgia, of the peaceful streets of Heidelberg. I do hope that Salt Lake City isn't like this, she thought. But of course it won't be. It isn't nearly so large. When she had walked as far as she thought advisable in one direction, she turned and went back again. There was still time to have an early dinner in the cafeteria before leaving. She felt greatly rested and refreshed. And, when her bus was announced, went down to get aboard with new interest that this was to be the last leg of her trip. When she left the bus for the last time she would be in Zion — the city of her dreams. There were two children seated just across from her, a boy of about eight and a girl a bit older. They seemed lonely and somewhat frightened. She smiled at them pleasantly and asked, "Are you going very far?" The question seemed to bring home to them the fact that they were going far indeed. The girl's eyes widened as she _ nodded, "Yes. Quite far. We're going to Utah." "Good," said Elsa. Where I'm going, too. Company all the way." The children were obviously delighted at the prospect, and at the very next stop attached themselves very firmly. It continued this way for the rest of the trip. They stayed together at all stops and ate their meals together. It was not long before they had poured out their story. Their father had been dead for some years. In fact, Jerry didn't remember him at all and Pauline "That's We'll be 06 only slightly. Their mother was very ill now and they were going out to Provo to live with an aunt until she recovered. Then she was going to join them. "It's almost out in the country and I can have a dog — maybe " Jerry volunteered. It was clear that a dog would compensate for a number of things. It was not long before Elsa realized how right Cynthia had been in describing the country. It had grown dark before they were very far out from Chicago, and when she awakened the next morning it was to vistas of golden fields that seemed to stretch on forever, with occasional small towns and farmhouses in between. It was a bit forbidding, and she had to remind herself very forcibly that this was why she had come — to see the world. To see something different. Well, it was certainly different, she had to agree, thinking of the dense evergreen forests that covered the hills at home. She was half dozing when they crossed the State line, and she just barely caught sight of the big sign announcing that they were in Utah. "Did you see that?' she called to the children. '"'We are almost there." Jerry leaped to his feet, ready to get off as soon as the bus could slow down. "Not quite this soon," she laughed. "But it will be only an hour or so, I'm sure." She had found the mountain scenery much more interesting than anything they had passed through for a long time. There were patches of scarlet and yellow leaves on the mountainsides. As they swung out of the last can- yon, and she caught sight of the panorama of the valley with the lake in the distance, she caught her breath with its sheer beauty. The faraway mountains were capped with snow. This was a fitting climax to her journey. It was really worth coming one fourth of the way around the world. For the first time she began to feel nervous about meeting the Knowltons. Clay had been so friendly that she had taken it for granted his family would be the same. But would they? Well, she need not stay with them for very long. As soon as she found a job she would also find her own place to live. It was just a matter of getting settled. The bus rolled into the rear of the station and stopped. They piled out as quickly as they could. "Does your aunt meet you here, or do you go on to Provo?" she asked. "Our ticket says Provo," answered Pauline. "Is it much farther?" "IT don't know. We'll ask at the office." They walked up the ramp and into the waiting room. Elsa looked around eagerly to see if she could locate the Knowltons. She had sent a telegram from Chicago telling the exact time she should arrive. But how would she know them — or they her? The room was full of people. Her first concern was for the children, however. She found that their bus would not leave for another half hour. They walked around the room a couple of times for exercise, then went into the lunch room for a glass of milk and a bun. By that time their THE TURN OF THE WHEEL bus was called, and she took them down again to put them on. "In a little more than an hour you'll be there," she said. "I hope that you have a wonderful time this winter." "Thank you," they said, looking very doubtful. She went back again and sat down to wait. By now she felt as nervous as the children had looked. What if no one came? She had their address, but should she take a cab to their home? Maybe they had changed their rainds about meeting her. Then what would she do? She was becoming just a trifle desperate when her name was called over the loud-speaker. With a sigh of relief, she jumped to her feet and hurried over to the information desk. She: recognized them at once and wondered how she could have missed them before. Mr. Knowlton was Clay just twenty years older. Mrs. Knowlton held out her hand and said "Elsa! We're so sorry to have missed you. We didn't recognize you because of the children. We were looking for someone alone." "Of course," she smiled. "I didn't think of that." She shook hands with Mr. Knowlton and he gathered up her bags. "This way," he said, leading them towards the north door. Just outside Elsa looked up to where the golden angel on a lofty spire caught the rays of the setting sun. She wanted to stand there and look — and look. Mrs. Knowlton touched her arm and smiled as she said, ''Come, my dear. It will be there for a long time." (To be continued) 907 RELIEF Society is enthusiastically behind the new Family Home Evening Program which will begin in Latter-day Saint homes in January 1965. That parents are responsible for teaching their children the gospel in the home — both by precept and example — is an eternal principle. The Prophet Joseph Smith had revealed to him the portentous words "the sin be upon the heads of the parents" who neglect to teach their children. Every President of the Church since then has reiterated the directive, as have other General Authorities. With the falling away from righteousness and the upsurge of wickedness in the world, today's prophet of the Lord is establishing in the Church this Family Home Evening Program, to bring to fruition righteousness in the lives of family members, by learning the gospel together as a family. The lessons will be taught under the direction of the father with the full cooperation of the mother. As an aid in this accomplishment, weekly lessons will be taught to fathers in Priesthood classes and a monthly correlated lesson will be taught to Relief Society members. Also fortifying this program will be visits to the homes by the Home Teachers. This program is inaugurated through inspiration for Latter-day Saint families to set their homes in order. As the new year dawns, the time of thinking and planning will have passed and the time of action will have arrived. Every Latter-day Saint wife will have the responsibility of supporting her husband in the family gospel training period. Every Latter-day Saint woman, even though she be living alone, will take part in the gospel study. Volume 51 December 1964 Number 12 e Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor e Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer '"'wWho's on The Lord's Side, Who?" In Church meetings we all sing: Who's on the Lord's side? Who? Now is the time to show; We ask it fearlessly; Who's on the Lord's side? Who? We wage no common war, Cope with no common foe; The enemy's awake; Who's on the Lord's side? Who? Every Latter-day Saint woman will answer this question by her action in giving wholehearted support to this program. If she will line up on the Lord's side, she will carry out the Family Home Evening Program as directed by the Priesthood. There must be no slackening of this program in the months ahead. Lessons of eternal import are to be learned; nor is the learning mere lip service. The learning means shaping one's life, not tomorrow, but today, in accordance with the teaching as it is taught. Whatever the subject, whatever the truth, the better living of it is to begin the day it is considered in the family. The women of the Church will rally behind the Priesthood in this wonderful program. By so doing — and not wearying in this marvelous undertaking — spirituality will increase in the direction of Latter-day Saint families. 'The promise of blessings to accrue to the families is in this scripture 'There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." Great will be the blessings to individual family members and the family as a whole who carry out this Family Home Evening Program. — M. C. S. Anna B. Hart Mary V. Cameron Anne R. Gledhill Edith S. Elliott Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Florence J. Madsen Wealtha S. Mendenhall Zola J. McGhie Leone G. Layton Elsa T. Peterson Oa J. Cannon Blanche B. Stoddard Fanny S$. Kienitz Lila B. Walch Evon W. Peterson Elizabeth B. Winters; Lenore C. Gundersen Aleine M. Young LaRue H. Rosell Marjorie C. Pingree Josie B. Bay Jennie R. Scott Darlene C. Dedekind Alberta H. Christensen Alice L. Wilkinson Cleone R. Eccles Mildred B. Eyring Irene W. Buehner Edythe K. Watson Edith P. Backman Irene C. Lloyd Ellen N. Barnes Winniefred S. Manwaring Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Eina P. Haymond Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Mary R. Young Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith 909 The 134th Semi-Annual Church Conference The 134th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, October 2, 3, and 4, 1964. President David O. McKay, now in his ninety-second year, from his home nearby, presided at all the general sessions and the Priesthood meeting. President Hugh B. Brown and President N. Eldon Tanner conducted the meetings. All of the General Authorities, except President McKay, were in attendance. The three days of instruction and rejoicing provided for the world-wide membership of the Church a rich harvest of truth and enlightenment. Many thousands of members and interested listeners among the nations of the earth were privileged to be uplifted once more by the glad tidings of the gospel. Television and radio, and later, the printed word, carried the message to far places in English, German, Spanish, and Portuguese. The great organ and the many voices carried music to the multitudes in tones of faith and majesty. The theme and the prevading messages delineated the principles and requirements of the everlasting gospel: the divinity and mission of the Savior; the great apostasy; the restoration; and the importance of prayer and obeying the commandments in order to obtain a testimony of the gospel. President David O. McKay's opening greetings and address were read by his son Robert. The beloved President said, in part: It is over fifty-eight years ago that | stood at the pulpit in the Tabernacle for the first time as one of the General Authorities of the Church. | remember well then my trembling and humility at facing such an audience and accepting a position as one of the General Authorities.... This morning, as then, and during the intervening years, | ask for your sympathy and prayers. Evidences of progress in the Church give us true cause for rejoicing. The Lord has blessed us with eventful and prosperous years during the last decade. The loyalty of the members to the ideals and teachings of the Man of Galilee has been evidenced in many ways. But let us ever remember that peace and progress are attained only at the price of eternal vigilance and constant righteous efforts. President Hugh B. Brown spoke of the revealed gospel as providing the answers to questions vital to happiness and eternal salvation.. 910 EDITORIAL We believe that as a philosophy, Mormonism is the most profound and the most hopeful in the world today. But it is more than a philosophy. To us it is the Restored Gospel of Jesus Christ, unadulterated by the speculations of men. The basic idea of our religion is the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man, with the love of God and the love of fellow men as basic principles.... The restoration of the gospel marks the inauguration of the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times.... The Restoration of the Gospel.'.. Is the consummation of the work of God throughout the ages, and the final preparation for the second advent of Jesus the Christ. President N. Eldon Tanner declared that if men would accept Jesus as the Son of God, peace could fill the world with its glory and its blessing. |! Am sure that many of you young people wonder how it was that the shepherds and the Wise Men were looking for and recognized the sign that would tell of the birth of the Savior. They expected a new star. This was because ancient prophets had foretold the signs that would appear. Those who had read of the prophecies were prepared for these signs when they came, and what a thrilling thing it is to know, as recorded in the Gospel of Matthew, that the Wise Men from the East followed the star to the place of his birth. They were instructed to go to Bethlehem, where he would be born, as prophesied by Micah, the prophet.... All the scriptures to which | have referred are testimonies of thos2 who were told by angels or by God himself many years before the birth of Christ that he is the Son of God. The Shepherds Lela F. Morris The shepherds of the hills were greatly blessed; They saw the glowing splendor of the star. While all the little village lay at rest, it shone on Bethlehem and hills afar. They heard angel voices from the heavens ring, And followed on to where the young child lay. There were glad. Tidings of the newborn king,": in lowly manger on the fragrant hay; And, guided by a new star's radiant light, The Wise Men knelt with precious gifts of gold. Where glory brushed. The shadows of the night, They saw the beauty of that sacred scene unfold. God showers his grace on humble folk and blesses: them, Even shepherds on the hills of Bethlehem. - 911 eas Ramona W. Cannon Dr. Elizabeth Eckhardt May, Dean of the School of Home Economics at the University of Connecticut, was the director of a five-year rehabilitation study of handicapped homemakers which has given new hope to thousands of hemiplegics, arthritics, victims of tuberculosis, poliomyelitis, cardiovascular diseases, and those orthopedically disabled. Training films, slides, booklets, and how-to-do-it instructions compiled during the course of study have already been disseminated to rehabilitation centers in each of the fifty States and twenty-three foreign countries. Individuals or groups wishing to secure lists of such available materials are invited to write to: Handicapped Homemaker Research Center, School of Home Economics, University of Connecticut, Storrs, Connecticut. Hanako Tsugaru, on September 30, married Yoshi, younger son of Emperor Hirohito of Japan, in a two-thousandyear-old Shinto ceremony at a shrine on the imperial palace grounds. The emperor, who, traditionally, never attends a court function unless he is the star participant, watched the ceremony on television. Hanako descends from rulers of northern Honshu, Japan's main island. Attractive Princess Margarita of Sweden was married last June 30 to British businessman John Ambler, in a historic twelfth-century church in Stockholm. This appears to be another genuine romance. 912 Mrs. Mattie C. Sanford, Salt Lake City, Utah, who was honored several years ago with a gold medal for 'unusual civic service,'' was named a Fellow of the Photographic Society of America, the world's largest photographic society, at their meeting in Montreal, Canada, in August. She was cited for her excellence in color and stereo photography, and for her many contributions to the advancement of photography by teaching and _ lecturing. Mrs. Martha Tavian Lincoln, a resident of the Uintah-Ouray Indian Reservation, near Roosevelt, Utah, died September 26, 1964, at the age of 116. Her husband, who was born in 1849 and died in 1925, was named Abe Lincoln. They had no children. Lovely Princess Anne-Marie of Denmark on September 18 became the bride of King Constantine of Greece. They are obviously deeply in love with each other. He, at twenty-four, is the youngest king reigning today, and Anne-Marie, at eighteen, is the youngest queen. Greece is Europe's newest monarchy, its dynasty being only 100 years old. Denmark is the oldest monarchy, dating back more than a thousand years. Helen Hayes, United States' first lady of the theater, says she is utterly weary of plays ''which deal with the mentally sick and the spiritually infirm,'' and which display ''a great paucity of ideas."' TRANSPARENCY BY O. F. OLDENOORP May ThHeRE Always DE a CHRisStMas Dorothy J. Roberts Despite the jets above the flattened fir Or the probing of the layered lense's eye, Still, Magi leave the healing scent of myrrh And shepherds lay the warmth of lamb's wool by. Let frost be smitten from each windowpane, And pine and poinsettia light the room again. christmas In ADO GREEN hristmas trees and decorative motifs from the home of Mrs. Alberta Wright Moyle a ee Bi Ua ee /ESIGNS BY GORDON WRIGHT Christmas Tree of the Nations This unusual and very beautiful Christmas tree graces the entrance hall of the Moyle home. It is anchored in a black antique urn, and decorated with artificial fruit and white (electric) candles. The dolls, in authentic costumes, represent various countries of Europe and South America, giving special interest, as well as radiant color, to this decor. Note the effectiveness of the tall and slender tree against the golden draperies. 914 A ran gneiss ane AOnRNOpe 5 spebante etwas: —__ TRANSPARENICES BY HAL RUMEL Green and Gold Stairway The wreath and the boughs of evergreens are accented with gold balls. Note the ribbon bow on the wreath. The small tree attached to the door is made of boughs decorated with small gold balls and gold rope. The lovely chandelier creates a harmony of light, and the poinsettia plant in the high window provides a striking point of interest. 915 i nesensnntiiiaenntiliaaitianstilintensdtian a ae Dark Green, Pale Pink, and Gold Christmas Tree This richly glowing tree has an unusually effective design of color and placement of ornaments. The tree was sprayed a deeper green to make a more striking contrast for the pale pink and gold drops hanging from the boughs. The candles are white, and the tree is placed in an elegant brass antique container, tied with gold rope. The dark green and shining gold design is carried out in the decor for the mantel and its beauty enhanced by the placement of the dark green candles in the crystal candelabra. The Christmas decor was especially planned for harmony with the gold-colored rug and the gold-framed picture above the mantel. whberry plan a artificial strawberries are of strawberry jam (or preserves) tied ellent one whic ease the sugar. Sndividual jars { 1 jam is an exc a rich red color. Four cups of stra rries (fresh frozen berries can i d five cups of sugar an let t eat and poil hard for eight minutes.;1 two mi Remove;, to prev berries. Table first course. D alternately stir a glasses, - eo desired for Pour into J or a holiday luncheon of a size the fresh strawberries ma TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUM —_ "golden" pictures Made FROM REEPSARES Beatrice S. Poelman Whaat memento have you tucked away in a box growing discolored and unattractive as the years go by? Is it a bit of lace that grandmother wore at her throat, or a pair of worn-out pillowcases embroidered so_ lovingly and painstakingly for your trousseau? Or is it a faded dresser scarf? A pretty jabot or dicky that you were so proud of, too, is hard to throw in the wastebasket. Have I guessed it? You have some of these folded away in the back of a drawer. Well, whatever you have hidden away, why not bring it out in the open for all to admire and enjoy? Let's make a picture out of it! A piece of material embroidered in flowers found among my mother's things after her death, gave me the inspiration to create some_ pictures which have pleased my children and grandchildren. Over the years mother had cherished this piece of embroidery because it was made by her first daughter who died, when just nineteen, at the birth of a baby girl. Knowing how mother felt about this keepsake, I hated to throw it away. Yet the cloth was stained and even falling to pieces where it had been folded so many years. Still, the stitches were neat and the design attractive. What could I do with it? Suddenly the idea came to paint the flowers gold, cut them out, and mount them on an attractive background. I could hardly wait to get started! I found by laying the material over paper I could paint without causing a mess even though some of the paint came through the material. The work went fast, too, because it didn't matter if the gold extended beyond the embroidery as it was to be cut away, -_— C ee -—— —* — <= ——_ —_ — _— — el —— _ —_— ELE 918 TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL anyway. I discovered, too, that when the gold paint dried, the material had more body so it could be cut more easily and did not fray. I cut a piece of cardboard the size of the picture needed for the frame I wanted to use and mounted the cloth background on that. (I used glue around the edges and some through the center. Any library paste or rubber cement can be used.) The first picture I made I used an off-white brocade damask for the background upon which the gold flowers had quite a French air. Since then I have used various colors of velvet, faille, satin, and even wool upholstery. They all make interesting pictures, but, with the light-weight materials, care must be taken not to use too much glue or it comes through the material. I have mounted these by cutting the material larger than the cardboard and fastening the overlapping edges to the back with masking tape. Now comes the fun oi working out a design! The pieces of gold embroidery or lace, whether flowers or conventional designs, suggest patterns as you move them around on the background, and before long something interesting will be developing whether it be a dainty wreath or a bold conventional design. And some grandchild will love a picture made from grandmother's old dresser scarf or neck-piece. A few hints I have found helpful: (1) Make the complete design before gluing, then place a spot of glue under the piece by means of a_ toothpick. Not too much glue is needed. (2) Holding the design so that it can be seen in a mirror helps to see if the design is symmetrical better than looking at it directly. (3) If it is necessary to change the position of a design and some glue shows on the background, let it dry completely, then remove it by stroking along the grain of the material with a needle point. (4) Spraying the gold on is not as economical as brushing it on or even using a piece of cloth with which to rub it on. 919 TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL christmas comes IN COIOR Florence S. Jacobsen Front Door Decoration Wide red satin ribbon wrapped around the door on which is mounted a large handmade red felt mitten filled with red and green wrapped Christmas gifts. The mitten is significant in that it extends a welcoming, warm hand of fellowship and has been traditionally re-used annually for many years on the Jacobsen front door. Mantel and Tree The traditional green tree is decorated with tiny white lights, red shiny balls, and crystal prisms. One red ball is a music box which plays "Silent Night." Green net is poked and fluffed around the stem and base of the tree. Red felt stockings, the oldest of which is the same age as the Jacobsen's eldest married son, are over the fireplace. Stockings have been made and added each year as the family increased in number. Felt initials indicate the names of the family members. Red candles, green Christmas boughs, and glowing lighted fruit are arranged to frame a picture of the manger scene. The oblong manger print is framed in gold and mounted on red velvet in an oval frame edged with tiny green leaves and fruit. The picture of the humble birth of the Savior is the focal point in the entire decorating scheme. 921 Christmas Tablecloth Handmade Christmas tablecloth of white felt is bordered with gold braid and fruit motif. Each fruit cluster surrounds a tiny Christmas light to give it an unusual glow. The centerpiece consists of fruit which also lights up, repeating the theme of Christmas boughs, candles, and glowing fruits. The felt cloth has been traditionally used on the Jacobsen's table for many years and was made by Sister Jacobsen. 922 TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL che christmas TREE WeEaRS ROSES Green pine tree, flocked with artificial snow. The roses are made of tissue paper in light blue and pale blue and dark and light green. The roses are arranged in various groupings, using different combinations of color tints in each group. They provide an inexpensive trimming. Christmas tree lights are blue and green. Cannon children in the picture: Ann, seated on the floor: Carolyn: Allison. 923 olo-Fashioned HaRotack Canoy Fran Dunford TREE DESIGN BY HELEN TRIPP AND SYDNEY CALDER OF SOUTH DAVIS STAKE Line the bottom of a 9"x13" pan with aluminum foil. In a heavy 3-quart pan, place: 2 c. Sugar, 1 c. Water, 2/3 c. White syrup. Cook to 275°F. (between the soft crack and the hard crack stage). Remove from the stove and add coloring (yellow, red, or green, as desired). Add '% tsp. Oil flavor, such as cloves, cinnamon, anise (licorice), wintergreen, or peppermint. Pour mixture on aluminum foil in pan previously prepared. As the candy starts to cool, mark it off into rectangles or squares, as desired. After the candy is completely cool, turn it out onto waxed paper and break into pieces. A colorful decorative Christmas tree for a_ table centerpiece, or for decorating the mantel can be made by shaping a little tree with circles of chicken wire crisscrossing around the center dowel stick. The tree in the picture was made of chicken wire, and sprayed with gold paint. The colorful candy is then placed in plastic bags, tied with bright ribbon, and hooked (with regular ornament hangers) to the wires of the tree. The size of the dowel stick and the weight of wire used would depend upon the size desired in the finished tree. The number and size of the bags of the candy could be planned to suit the size and purpose of the tree. TRANSPARENCY &Y VERNON SHARP TREE DESIGN BY FLORENCE C WILLIAMS TRANSPARENCY A Table Tells The cChbRiStMaS STORY By VERNON SHARP A Christmas table can be made decorative and appropriate for gracing the holiday festivities by planning in advance a unique design. This table is covered with a dark green fringed cloth. The groundwork around the tree is composed of various fruits and nuts arranged on greenery. (Holly, pine boughs, Oregon grape, or artificial greenery could be used.) Apples or oranges could be used for accent, and the fruit may be iced or dipped for a sparkling effect. For the tree foundation (trunk and branches) styrofoam can be used, or the tree can be made of wire covered with heavy paper or cardboard. A small carved wooden tree would be effective when beautifully decorated. Fruits and nuts are attached to the tree with icing, heavy syrup, honey, or, if only nuts (or nuts and cones) are used they may be attached with glue. 925 Hawaiian Luau Talents in Action | A candy bouse For | christmas 928 TRANSPARENCY BY CAMERA CLIX A ''snow-covered'' house, decorated with candy and placed in a setting of trees and hills and snowdrifts, will delight the children at Christmastime. It would be appropriate for placing on a wide mantel or a low table, or might be used as a centerpiece for the dining table. A child would feel a spirit of joyful appreciation if he could have a Christmas house for his own room. A CANDY HOUSE FOR CHRISTMAS The house can be made in various sizes, with ''luscious'' landscaping, and with an amazing number of decorative motifs and figurines readily available. Many such ''color and crystal'? Houses are made of a combination of edible and inedible ''ingredients,"' and if the making of the house and arranging its setting can be a family project, each child will participate with great originality. The Setting: For the groundwork, use a large tray, a piece of glass, a box top, or a piece of heavy cardboard, depending upon the size of the house and the extensiveness and type of landscaping. The Ground Cover may be white confetti, cotton or wool batting, styrofoam, or such edible materials as popcorn or icing made by one of the recipes included with these directions. The creative Christmas homemaker will think of many variations. The ''snow'' can be heaped into hills, formed: into stream channels, or heaped up around a little lake or pond or skating rink. The water can be represented by a clear surface of the foundation glass or tray, or a piece of aluminum foil can be cut to an appropriate shape. Even a piece of blue tissue paper can be used as surface for a pool or to outline the course of a stream. Decorating the landscape: Fences, grottos, paths, trellises, trees, figurines (of Santa Claus, carolers, reindeer, Wise Men, shepherds) may be arranged to make the scene glow with Christmas atmosphere. For steps and paths, for edging the lake or the stream, use small or large marshmallows or a combination of both in various colors, or try a design of jelly mints (square or rectangular or round) or use the ''rock candies,'' which so closely resemble real stones. For fences, try licorice sticks, stick candy, or make a 'wheel' fence of small doughnuts or cookies pressed halfway into the "snow.'' Cranberries or Maraschino cherries can be fitted into a matrix made of icing. The figurines may be dolls, carolers, Wise Men, shepherds, Santa Claus, sleighs, skaters, or reindeer, and they may be made of candy, cookie dough, or they may be ceramics. Colorful Christmas motifs can be cut from last year's Christmas cards and pressed into the ''snow'' foundation, or the people from cutout books can be assembled. Trees may be made of cookie dough and decorated with glistening sparkle candies, or they may be cut from craft paper, or clipped from the trimmed branches of the big Christmas tree. Making the house: Use a cardboard box or carton (turned upside down) in the size desired for the walls of the house and cut doors and windows. The sloping roof and the gabled ends, as well as the chimney, can be cut from cardboard and fastened securely together with adhesive tape. For filling in the window spaces, use light blue paper or aluminum foil, or if the house is small, pieces of flat candy can become windows. A little door can be made by covering a piece of cardboard with foil or cutting the dimensions from colored heavy-grade craft paper, or a door can be shaped from cookie dough. Cover the house thickly with icing made from one of the following recipes, or use a recipe of your own. Be sure that the icing contains syrup or egg white, so that the decorations will stick to the surface. If either of these icings is used for snow, the icing can be a little less solid. The icing used to cover the house must be quite solid. The texture can be easily adjusted by adding confectioners' sugar for making the icing thicker, or adding white syrup or beaten egg whites for making it thinner. Then assemble your variety of colorful candies or candied fruits or fresh cranberries, or Maraschino cherries, nuts or raisins, and decorate your Christmas house with anticipation and originality. 929 NO COOK FONDANT 1/3 cup soft butter or margarine 1/3 cup light corn syrup 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 4 1/2 cups (1 pound) sifted confectioners' sugar Blend shortening, light corn syrup, salt and vanilla in large mixing bowl. Add sifted confectioners' sugar all at onee. Mix all together — first, with a spoon; then with hands, knead dry ingredients. Turn onto board and continue kneading until mixture is well blended and smooth. Makes about 1 1/3 pounds. Store in a cool place until ready for use. MARSHMALLOW ICING 3/4 cup granulated sugar 2 envelopes ~unflavored gelatin 2/3 cup cold water 1 cup light corn syrup 1 teaspoon vanilla extract | Blend sugar and gelatin in saucepan, stir in water. - Place. 'over low sheat, stirring until sugar and gelatin are dissolved. Pour light. Corn syrup. In a large bowl (3 to 4-quart) of electric mixer or mix by hand. Add vanilla, gelatin, and sugar mixture to light corn syrup, and beat about 15 minutes or.. Until mixture. Becomes thick and of a marshmallow consistency. A Word Mabel Jones Gabbott A word fell among us ricocheting, left then right; Across the room our eyes met, and the word made a pool of -light, Pushing the edge of wonder wide and wider; illumining racks of rue And doubt with finite understanding in infinite ways. And only we knew. 930 CHRISTMAS SEALS a needed gift Dr. James E. Perkins Managing Director, National Tuberculosis Association A lot of statistics are walking around town these days. What | refer to is the large number of people who, if they had been born a few decades earlier, would have become ill — and in many cases would have died — of a grim disease called tuberculosis. But thanks to Providence, medical advance, and the dedicated efforts of many people, these ''statistics'' are in the alive-and-well column today, going very humanly about their business. In the sixty years since the National Tuberculosis Association was founded, the TB death rate in the United States has been cut drastically; the total number of people saved from dying of tuberculosis is estimated at about nine million. But a sizeable problem still remains to be faced, with more than 53,000 new cases of active TB and 10,000 relapses yearly, and with a rise in other respiratory diseases. This does not in the least diminish the importance of what has been accomplished. But the job is not finished. World wide, Christmas Seals are helping to get the job done. As we celebrate this Sixtieth Anniversary year of the National Tuberculosis Association, we wish to voice our thanks to the many devoted persons in the fields of government, industry, labor, medicine, and health, civic and church work who have lent their support in the still uncompleted struggle to control tuberculosis and other respiratory diseases. This life-saving work is supported only by your voluntary service, and financed only by your Christmas Seal contributions. Please answer your Christmas Seal letter today and give generously. 931 W Hat would you like for Christmas more than anything else?" Danny, my five-year-old son asked, as he slid into a chair by the kitchen table on which I was busy cutting out a red Christmas apron. He had just come in from kindergarten and I felt that to him it was a very important question. It had to do, I was certain, with something he was making at school. "Oh," I said, "I'd like a new automatic washer, a new dryer, a set of new dishes, a bright red Christmas dress, with a bit of sparkly trimming, a dishwasher, a sewing machine, a pancake turner, a waste paper basket...." Danny was no longer listening. He had suddenly dived under the table. When I again started cutting, 932 ad The Christmas Gift Su! Kathryn E. Franks my small son sneaked back upon the chair and settled himself. He continued questioning. "If you had a new washer in your bathroom, what color would you like it to be?" "Pink!" I answered quickly, "to match the new walls." This brought such brightness to his face I thought the sunlight had burst through the kitchen window. He popped from his chair and simply cart-wheeled straight out of the kitchen. Danny didn't mention the subject again for several days, although it was continually on my mind. I was anxious to find out what in the world he could be making. I gave up. There was no use guessing. Then a clue came the evening before the school program. "I need some wrapping paper for my gift," Danny reminded me at bedtime. "Will you find a pretty piece and put it out with my school clothes? Don't forget, please." I did as he asked. But the next morning he came in and informed me that one sheet wasn't enough. "T need two or three sheets," he announced proudly. Good land, I thought, what could he be wrapping that would take all that paper! He brought the gift home in his friend's car. He ordered me to hide in the kitchen while he hid it under his bed. I promised not to peek, and a promise is a promise. Although the dust, shoes, and socks collected, I neither vacuumed nor swept under his bed. The next day we brought the Christmas tree and placed it by the front window. Excitedly we decorated it, with my son hanging too many ornaments on one limb, making it hang down limp, and not enough on another so a vast emptiness showed in one spot. The branches, nevertheless, cast their fragrance of pine throughout the house, bringing the reverence of the season. The gift from underneath the bed was the first one brought out and placed under the tree. It was big and round, all his arms could reach around. I held my breath, for it was so flimsily wrapped I felt the gift itself was going to peek out any minute. If his hands didn't stop rearranging it under the tree, it certainly would come apart. First he placed it in front, then he changed it to the THE CHRISTMAS GIFT back. This didn't satisfy him, so he set it at an angle under an overhanging branch. "It's light," I told my husband later that evening, "for anything the size and shape of an old butter crock." On Christmas morning as I hurried into the living room, Danny rushed to the tree and grabbed his gift for me and thrust it into my hands. My hands shook as I tore apart the paper and ribbons. "Look," I exclaimed, holding it up, "a beautiful pink fingerpainted wastepaper basket." My face, I'm sure showed my excitement. Surprisingly enough, it was a large ice-cream carton covered with his own hand-painted deer and other Christmas designs. I was childishly delighted. "Do you like it?" my _ son asked, forgetting to look at his own gift under the tree. "Like it," I said, hugging him, "T love it." After the gifts were unwrapped he came over to me with a worried look, and said, ''But, Mother, you didn't get an automatic washer, a sewing machine, or a red dress. Why are you so happy?" "T'm happy," I answered, holding him from me where I could get a good look at the five-yearold size of him, ''because I got a wastepaper basket, a pink, handpainted, decorated one, that exactly matches my bathroom walls." At that he simply cart-wheeled over the discarded Christmas wrappings right into the branches of the Christmas tree. 933 ate z ~. _ Py 2 Y Pk. See " oy ae 4 yo Rig ° Bere w Get 2 woe Oame e gee Nea Pe. 4 a? 4. - 2.' st ill ye i 8 i Ml ae a i" 0 he a et 3 1" OY eee tae, pn ys: swine lances oh Met OO we Lucy Andrews Lives in a World of Handiwork Lucy Andrews, Driggs, Idaho, has explored to its many corners the fascinating world of handicraft. She thinks of form and color and design and texture in personal terms: ''What can | make now?" Her knitted afghans are famous in her home valley and her numerous articles of crocheting grace the homes of her friends and relatives. One of her specialties is making baby quilts, and she says she loves "the rising generation.'" She makes braided and crocheted rugs in colorful designs and in sizes for every room in the house where a rug is needed. When she has some time left over from her handicraft activities, she writes letters to friends and relatives living afar in many places, including Alaska and England. She is mother of five children, grandmother to seventeen, and great-grandmother to twenty-four. Her many years of devoted Relief Society activities have included service as counselor, work meeting leader, secretary, and visiting teacher, and she regards Relief Society as her ''second self."' 934 Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 62 — The Revelation on Priesthood (continued) (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 84:43-120) For First Meeting, March 1965 Objective: To appreciate that the Lord has provided many ways by which man may know and understand the plan of salvation and HEARKEN TO THE SPIRIT The call is sent forth in Section 84 that all people should give careful heed to the words of eternal life, and to live by every word that comes from God. (Verses 43-44.) They are reminded that the word of the Lord is light and truth and that this enlightenment comes from the Spirit of Jesus Christ. (Verse 45.) Those who hearken to this Spirit come unto the Father, and then the Father teaches them of the covenant and gives them a testimony of the truth. (Verse 48.) But the Spirit of Christ prepares the person for acceptance of the fulness of truth. Every man that comes into the world receives light from that Spirit. (D&C 84:46; 88:11-13.) the. Latter-day Saints. The place of the Priesthood in the plan. With the understanding that everyone is a child of God in the spirit, we recognize why the Lord gives to all of his children a guide to lead them unto all truth. The function of this Spirit and its universality are enumerated by President George Q. Cannon as follows:. It is a Spirit that pleads with men to do right. The heathen have it. There is no degraded Indian in these mountains or valleys who does not have a portion of that Spirit pleading with him to do that which is right. It pleads with all the heathen, the Pagan as well as the Christian; the Methodist and Baptist a3 well as Everywhere throughout the earth where man dwells this Spirit rests upon him. It comes from God. It pleads with man to do right. It pleads with man to resist the blandishments of Satan. No man ever did a wrong but that Spirit 935 DECEMBER 1964 warned him of it to a greater or less extent (Journal of Discourses 26: 191). This Spirit should not be confused with the Holy Ghost which is given to those who obey the principles of the gospel and have hands laid upon their heads for that gift. (Acts 5:32; John 14:16-17.) ~ THE RIGHTEOUS AND THE WICKED In connection with the important truth that all men have to a greater or less extent the Spirit of the Lord which enlightens them and gives them power to discern between right and wrong, it must be known that, through succumbing to the enticings of Satan, sin is perpetuated. Each individual, to some degree, is in the bondage of sin, and, therefore, in need of repentance. The Lord desires that his children understand the need for their acceptance of the fulness of truth. It is only by the atonement of Jesus Christ that sin is forgiven by obedience to the principles and ordinances of the _ gospel. That person who does not come unto Jesus Christ in the manner he has prescribed, continues to remain under the bondage of sin or spiritual death. On the other hand, the person who has accepted Jesus Christ through his Priesthood has come into spiritual life, which is the state of the righteous. President Joseph F. Smith has set this forth in these words:... Now, all the world today, I am sorry to say, with the exception of a handful of people who have obeyed the new and everlasting covenant, are suffering this spiritual death. They are cast out from the presence of God. 936 They are without God, without gospel truth, and without the power of redemption; for they know not God nor His Gospel. In order that they may be redeemed and saved from the spiritual death which has spread over the world like a pall, they must repent of their sins, and be baptized by one having authority, for the remission of their sins, that they may be born of God (Conference Report, October 1899, page 72). UNBELIEF AMONG THE SAINTS Notwithstanding the saint has come into spiritual. Life, he may lose the influence of the Holy Ghost due to sin. When Section 84 was received, the inhabitants of Zion had not paid necessary attention to the revelation and the inspired writings in The Book of Mormon. The consequence of this neglect and unbelief was darkness of mind. (Verses 54-56.) Escape from this condemnation was open to Zion on condition that she abide by the teachings of the revelations and not talk about them only. (Verse 57.) Repentance would bring forth results beneficial to them, but slothfulness would bring a scourge and judgment. (Verse 58.) SIGNS FOLLOW THE BELIEVER The elders addressed in this revelation were to go into the world testifying unto all that, as they accepted the first principles and came into the kingdom of God, the Holy Ghost would be received. (D&C 84:62-64.) The Lord then indicated that various signs — wonderful works, casting out devils, healing the sick, ete. — would follow the believer. (Verses 65-72.) A very important admonition was given the elder and member who participated or received such a blessing. But a commandment I give unto them, that they shall not boast themselves of these things, neither speak them before the world; for these things are given unto you for your profit and for salvation (Verse 73). Miracles have been in the Church of Jesus Christ in all dispensations. The spiritual gifts of the Holy Ghos:, one of which is miracles, are a part of the fulness of the gospel. (D&C 46:21.) That signs follow the believer is well known to the Latter-day Saint for thousands of saints can testify that these blessings have been received. We may correctly say that miracles (signs) are a characteristic of the true Church. Miracles in and of themselves, however, are not evidences of the truth. Men are not saved in the kingdom of God by miracles. As stated by President Brigham Young: The Latter-day Saints and every other person who is entitled to salvation, and all except those who have sinned against the Holy Ghost, may know that Jesus is the Christ in the same way that Peter knew it. Miracles do not give this knowledge to mankind, though they may serve as collateral evidence to strengthen the believer. The miracles of Jesus were known to the Jews, yet they suffered him to be put to death as a deceiver of mankind and one possessed of a devil (Journal of Discourses 10:193). What means are at the disposal of the saint that he may tell his friends how to distinguish between the genuine and the spurious representative of God? Healing is only one of the many parts of the gospel of Jesus Christ. To say that any one of the principles LESSON DEPARTMENT or ordinances is the gospel would be erroneous, and to believe that because an organization has an ordinance, such as baptism, that it is the true church would be equally false. The key to discerning which is the true church may be stated thus: When all of the principles and _ ordinances, as taught by Christ, are combined in the one organization, there the true Church exists. For our present purpose, if a healing is effected in an organization where all of the truths of the gospel are not taught, then that organization does not have the power of salvation in it. The purpose of the gospel of Christ is to make exaltation in the celestial kingdom possible. If the authority to administer the saving principles and ordinances of the gospel is not present, then there is no exaltation possible. THE LABORER! S WORTHY OF HIS HIRE With the command that the entire world should have the message of salvation taught to them (D&C 84:75-76), the Lord counseled his servants that they become as his "friends" of old, to preach. The gospel with power. (Verse 77.) As of old, they were to travel without purse or scrip (baggage) to prove the world, for the laborer was worthy of his hire. All of those who would take this commission, if faithful in the discharge of their duties, would neither be weary in. Mind nor in body, and they would not go hungry or without water. They were not to be concerned with the material things of life. For. Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither 937 DECEMBER 1964 do they spin; and the kingdoms of the world, in all their glory, are not arrayed like one of these. For your Father, who is in heaven, knoweth that you have need of all these things. Therefore, let the morrow take thought for the things of itself (Verses 82-84). When Jesus delivered the Sermon on the Mount during his mortal ministry, similar counsel was given to his disciples. (Matt. 6:25-34.) Some writers have criticized this sermon, saying that if this advice were taken by the world, all initiative and progress would be stopped. Clarification of this point is made in The Book of Mormon when the Sermon on the Mount was given on this continent. The resurrected Lord turned to the Twelve Disciples and gave to them this admonition; it was not for the world. Again, in this dispensation, the counsel is not for the world, but for those who are called into his ministry, and, if faithful, the promises will be fulfilled. The following testimony from President John Taylor summarizes the fulfillment of this promise to the faithful.... I see men around me in every direction who have travelled thousands and thousands of miles without purse or scrip, to preach the Gospel to the nations of the earth. They have traversed plains, mountains, deserts, seas, oceans and rivers; they have gone forth trusting in the living God, bearing the precious seed of eternal life. It is true they have not been comprehended or understood by the nations, but that does not-alter the fact. Many who went forth in their weakness have returned rejoicing, bringing their sheaves with them, as trophies of the victory of the principles of eternal life that they themselves had communicated. I say there is not an- 938 other instance on record today of like disinterested, affectionate regard for the welfare of the human family as has been manifested by the Elders of this Church. I have travelled thousands and hundreds of thousands of miles to preach the Gospel among the nations of the earth, and my brethren around me have done the same thing. Did we ever lack anything necessary to eat, drink and wear? I never did. God went with his Elders, and they have gathered together his people as they are here today. They have been seeking to carry out the desire of the Lord and the wish of the Almighty in regard to the human family. They were told to go trusting in the name of the Lord, and he would take care of them and go before them, and that the Spirit should go with them and his angels accompany them (Journal of Discourses 14:189). But what of the present? For many years Latter-day Saint missionaries have taken purse and scrip. With the speed-up of missionary work and with existing laws against this practice, the Lord has ruled otherwise, as he did in the meridian dispensation. (Luke 22:36.) In reference to this change, President Charles W. Penrose has said:... Indeed, all my ministry among the people of the -world was literally "without purse or scrip." Now I do not say this should be done now. I believe that as circumstances change, the Lord changes his commandments, to correspond: therewith. As Jesus taught, a great many of you who went out in the world took 'neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses, nor script for your journey, neither two coats, 'for the labourer is worthy of his hire,'"' but afterwards he said: "When I sent you out without purse or scrip, did you lack anything? And they said, Nay, Lord,' " but now he said, "He that hath no purse let him get one and he that hath no sword let him buy one." Circumstances had changed. He didn't change, but the circumstances being changed the word of the Lord was different. So in these times conditions have changed very much from those times (Conference Report, October 1921, page 17). TAKE NO THOUGHT BEFOREHAND The Lord also counseled the missionaries of this dispensation to treasure up in their minds the words of life that when the appropriate hour came, the words of life could be called forth. Although they were instructed to take no thought beforehand what they should say, they were to study diligently the revelations necessary to teach the gospel. (D&C 84:85.) The missionary was to "reprove the world of all their unrighteous deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come"' (Verse 87). REWARDS AND PUNISHMENT All who assist the Lord's servants will in no wise lose their reward. On the other hand, those who reject his missionaries or who fail to provide for them when required, will find that they have brought themselves under condemnation. (D&C 84:88-91.) It has been decreed, also, that those places that reject the word of the Lord will be condemned, but diligent search should be made in the cities and villages for those who will hearken to the message. (Verses 92-95.) When, in the judgment of the Lord, the world has had its opportunity to accept him through his servants, and as predicted, the world at large will have rejected the message, plagues shall go forth in judgment upon the nations (D&C 84:96-97; 63:32-37; 45:26-44.) The earth will be cleansed from wickedness, and in LESSON DEPARTMENT that day all shall know the Lord as the King of Kings. With knowledge of him as their lawgiver, they that remain will lift up their voices in singing the new song given in verses 99 through 102 in Section 84. These verses speak of millennial conditions. Zion is now being built upon the earth in preparation for the Lord's second advent. In time, the city of Zion (New Jerusalem) will be erected to the glory of God. When the Savior comes to establish his kingdom upon the earth, great shall be the joy of the redeemed, who have looked for that glorious day from the beginning. Satan, the archenemy of man, no longer will have influence for he will be bound. The promised restitution of all things (Acts 3:19-21) will have been accomplished in the gathering together into one of all promises and activities planned for the benefit of man. The Zion of Enoch and the Zion of the latter days will meet joyously. (Moses 7:62- 64.) In that day the Lord shall stand on the earth in the midst of his people who have been redeemed by his power. The redeemed shall then send forth their songs of praise to the Most High. CONCLUSION In order that the persons to whom Section 84 was addressed might understand, there is repeated the instruction that the families of the missionaries should be cared for, and the Lesser Priesthood members in that day were to prepare the way for the preaching of the gospel. (Verses 103- 108.) 939 DECEMBER 1964 C The important counsel was given that each man should stand in his own office and none should say unto the other there was no need of him. (Verses 109-110.) In this Priesthood revelation, it is appropriate to observe that the Priesthood, which gives life to the Church organization, marks the difference between the true Church of Jesus Christ and the dead forms of religion. Section 84 ends with a command that the Bishop of the Church carry the message of warning to certain large cities of the United States. In time, when the cup of iniquity is full, the Lord's power will be manifest, and he shall come to reign with his people. (Verses 111-120.) QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What place does the Spirit of Christ have in the lives of people? 2. Discuss: Miracles are a characteristic of the true Church. 3. Acknowledging that miracles (healings, for example) are performed outside of the true Church, what ways does the member of the Church and his non-member friend have for testing which is the true Church? 4. What is the meaning of "the laborer is worthy of his hire''? 5. Name as many millennial conditions as possible in the song to be sung by the redeemed. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants. ~*~ Christine H. Robinson Message 62 — ''For the Word of the Lord Is Truth, and Whatsoever Is Truth As Light ' (D&C 84:45). ~ & For First Meeting, March 1965 Objective: To explain the nature of truth and to show the "| a importance of searching for it constantly. THROUGHOUT the history of the world one of man's greatest quests has been in search of truth. Truth is the motive of the philosophers, the principal promoter of the poets, the compelling quest of the scientists, and the heart of all of man's religious yearnings. 940 The world and all that is in it move forward on the foundation of truth. It is the unchangeable basis of all of life's existence and of-its progress and development. As emphasized in this quotation from the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Savior came into the world to restore truth and light. He_established his gospel to lighten our paths through this mortal existence so that we might have life everlasting and have it more abundantly. The Savior's life was the personification of light and truth. He said, "I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life" (John 8:12). What is truth? Although this question has echoed down through the ages we are given the LESSON DEPARTMENT storm a cargo ship was driven far out of her course. She was badly disabled and in helpless condition. The tide carried her into a strange bay. The fresh water. Supply was soon exhausted on the ship and the crew suffered the agony of thirst. They dared not drink of the salt water in which they thought their vessel floated. Finally, in desperation, one of the sailors lowered a bucket over the ship's side and against the pleadings of his companions he tasted the beverage they all thought was sea water. To his great joy and amazement the water was fresh, answer in modern revelation, '¢ 'truth i owledge. _of things a as cool, and life-giving. The boat ~ they are, as they were, and as had actually drifted into the mouth of a great river, and fresh < they are to come" (D&C 93: 94), One of our favorite hymns says: Yes, say, what is truth? 'Tis the brightest prize To which mortals or Gods can aspire; Go search in the depths where it glittering lies Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest skies. *Tis an aim for the noblest desire. (John Jaques, Hymns, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, page 143). *. " Our most important endeavor "in this life is to seek and ind apply truth. A fundamental principle of the restored gospel is that man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge. Wisdom and knowledge are derived from truth. Truth brings progress. It is the foundation of happiness. It is the only path which leads to the full growth and development of the human soul. One of the encouraging facts about truth is that it is all around us and is readily available to all of us who sincerely seek it. Many years ago during a bad water was all around it. The sailors had simply to reach down and accept the new life and strength for which they had prayed. (Jordan, William George: Self Control, page 71.) Like this life-giving water, truth, too, is all around us. If we are wise, like the thirsty sailors, | we will reach out for the truth and make it part of our lives. The Savior said, "And ye shall | know the truth, and the truth | shall make you free" (John/ 8:32). To know the truth~can make us free, free from sin, free from temptation, free from fear, and free to enjoy the glorious blessings and the full development of our talents and personalities. President.. Joseph F. Smith said, "If you will learn the truth and walk in the light of truth; ye shall be made free from the errors of men and of crafts; you will be above suspicion and above wrong-doing of every description" (Gospel Doctrine, page 10). 941 DECEMBER 1964 In order to enjoy the rich blessings which come with truth it must be applied and acted upon. Elder Richard L. Evans said, '"There is no more virtue in the mere possession of truth than there is in the mere possession of food. Neither will save a man unless he uses it and uses it wisely." Certainly, the word of the Lord is truth and we, his children, should seek it constantly and apply it to our lives. WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 2 — The Eternal Family (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) For Second Meeting, February 1965 Objective: To consider the present and ultimate status of the family that we may guide ourselves and our children to that eternal THE FAMILY — A BASIC UNIT OF SOCIETY No subject is of greater interest or concern to the Latter-day Saint mother than that of the present status and ultimate destiny of the family. As the mother of a family, her concern is a natural one, for to her, family means home. It means husband and children. It means protecting care, and it involves all the emotions of human relationship that bind and endear one to another. 942 destiny intended by the Creator. We know, from observation, that the family is of utmost importance to organized society; that communities are made up of families; that nations are an aggregation of communities; and that the world-family is the sum total of its multiple nations. Thus, the family, the producer of society, is its basic unit. Those governments which have attained a high place in the world's history have been those which have given recognition to the home as a fundamental institution. THE FUNCTION OF THE FAMILY From personal experience, we know that the newborn child is almost completely helpless. It can neither speak nor walk. It is wholly dependent upon the assistance of others even to survive. In some cultures, society demands that families give their children certain necessary care. If such is not given, some states assume the right to take children from their families and give them to those who can and will provide that care. Beyond the giving of essential physical care, parents and family members contribute to the development of a child by example and by conscious teaching. Important as schoois have been and are, the home remains the primary educational institution. It is in the home that the child first learns that which he must do to obtain his desired goals; that certain kinds of behavierwill bring satisfaction or disapproval. Thus the child becomes oriented. Within the family, and this socialization enables him to develop behavior patterns which will make him an acceptable member of that larger world beyond the circle of the home. If the family is the basic unit of a given culture, then the home is in a position to exert a material influence upon. That culture. The relationship. Between them is a complex one, each exerting an influence upon the other. It is often said that the strength of a nation is no greater than the strength of its individual homes. We may also say that the morality of a community is the result of the morality of its individual LESSON DEPARTMENT homes. This being so, what a great responsibility rests upon families — upon the parents of those individual families! THE DIVINE AND ETERNAL STATUS OF THE FAMILY How blessed we are, as Latterday Saints, to know that the family organization has eternal status; that in the divine plan of existence, the family occupies a central position. 'Our very concept of heaven itself," wrote Elder Stephen L Richards, "'is little more than the projection of the home into eternity." What a glad tiding this is! Surely countless thousands of Christian men and women have yearned and prayed for a reunion with their parents and their children in the life hereafter. The gospel of Jesus Christ teaches that our families will have continuity within the celestial kingdom, provided we fulfill the requirements upon which this great blessing is predicated. This truth leads us to consider seriously the specific require-- ments which must be met in mortal life. Later lessons will emphasize the principles of the gospel which must be carried out by the parents and in the home, if this eternal blessing is: to be realized. In order to understand the function of the family. In fulfilling the divine purpose, it may be helpful to review briefly such phases of our existence as are known to us through revelation. "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man," are the words of the Creator, found in Moses 1:39. 943 DECEMBER 1964 Man was also in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be (D&C 93:29). And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness.... So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them (Genesis 1:26-27). God is the Father of our spirit bodies, and the next stage in our progression toward immortality, the stage in which we live at present, is that of earth life. With a mortal body we are given the opportunity of having the varied experiences which test our faith, our ability to discern and choose, and our willingness to comply with certain important and divine directives. We are given the opportunity of marriage and parenthood; the opportunity to perform services which will bring satisfaction and enduring joy. After mortal life, and as resurrected beings, we shall be assigned to that kingdom for which our thinking, our faith, and our actions have prepared us. In one sense, the mortal family is in_ partnership with our Heavenly Father. We assist him, as well as ourselves, in achieving the divine purposes of creation. We do this by bringing other spirit children, who are _ our spiritual brothers and sisters, into mortal life. It is impossible for us, in this human state, to comprehend fully the extent of the divine love of the Father for these opportunities. Likewise, it is impossible for us to appreciate fully the divine love of our Elder Brother, Jesus Christ, who voluntarily gave his life that we might have immortality and, 944 through obedience, achieve exaltation. THE FAMILY AND THE PATRIARCHAL ORDER The pattern of paternal responsibility for wife and children is known as a patriarchal family system. Throughout the ages of history this family pattern has been variously expressed, too often sadly violating the spirit of the patriarchal order as originally established. In some cultures the father has exercised such complete jurisdiction that he has been known to sell or even put to death members of his family. This is, indeed, a far departure from the plan of the Lord. It was the divine intent, that a father should not only bless the members of his family according to his patriarchal right, but that he also should be a blessing to them. In the kingdom established by the Lord, the family and the powers and authority of the Priesthood are inseparably connected. We read that Priesthood was originally exercised in the patriarchal order; that those who held it exercised their powers first by right of their fatherhood. It is so with the great Elohim. This first and strongest claim on our love, reverence and obedience is based on the fact that he is the Father, the Creator, of all mankind. Without him we are not, and consequently we owe to him existence and all that flows therefrom — all we have and all that we are.... But as men on earth cannot act in God's stead as his representatives without the authority, appointment and ordination naturally follow (Smith, Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, 1956 ed., page 147). In fact, the Priesthood which prevailed from Adam to Moses was the Patriarchal Order... "the direction of the Church in those days was by patriarchs" (Smith,- Joseph Fielding: Doctrines of Salvation, III:104). We may add that one of the greatest contributions derived from ancient scripture is its historical and doctrinal "support of the unity of the family in the patriarchal order' (Richards, Stephen L: Where Is Wisdom, page 6). It is evident from the following scriptural excerpt, that Abraham was familiar with the Patriarchal Order. That he desired the blessings of the fathers and the right whereunto he should be ordained to administer the same, is confirmed in the Book of Abraham, 1:4: "I sought for mine appointment unto the Priesthood according to the appointment of God unto the fathers concerning the seed." Through recent courses. Of study concerning the _ relationship of Priesthood to Church government and to the home, Relief Society sisters are aware of the fact that our Father's "'house is a house of order." They know that the Priesthood represents the authority given by the Lord to his worthy sons to carry out various ordinances and to represent him in various ways. It entitles the bearer to guidance in presiding over his family. If, however, the husband who holds the Melchizedek Priesthood is to receive divine sanction and the blessing of the Lord, he must preside according to righteous principles. If the family is to enjoy eternal continuity, certain ordinances, including temple marriage, which LESSON DEPARTMENT involve the wife as well as the bearer of the Priesthood, must be performed. Both must be worthy and their worthiness must be maintained in faith and with obedience to the covenants made. GOSPEL TEACHING — A FAMILY FUNCTION And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry, or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God. But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another (Mosiah 4:14-15). From the viewpoint of gospel teaching, the function and responsibility of the family go far beyond that of equipping the child physically to meet the world. The home should prepare him to meet life with faith in himself, and with a feeling of security and courage. Especially should he be equipped with a firm belief that he is a child — a beloved child — of God. SUMMARY The family is the basic unit of organized society. As such, it carries the responsibility of being an influence for good upon that society. Through ancient and modern revelation we know of the divine and eternal status of the family, and that by complying with certain designated requirements, the family, as such, may continue throughout eternity. As believers in the gospel of Jesus Christ, it is our responsibility and our privilege to share in this great and eternal joy. 945 DECEMBER 1964 THOUGHTS -FOR DISCUSSION 1. In what concrete ways can our families influence the community for good? 2. How can we help our children realize the importance of family continuity in the eternity? 3. How can we help our children understand that divine commandments are given as a guide and a blessing, and not as arbitrary restrictions? 4. Many people attend Church from their childhood on, yet they do not get married in the temple. Why is this? Images LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 6 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature — Part I (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 111-280) For Third Meeting, March 1965 Objective: To demonstrate how literature dramatizes the evil of selfishness and affirms the ideal of unselfishness. THE lesson for this month centers attention on four short stories: "Birthday Party" by Katharine Brush, "The New Dress" by Virginia Woolf, "The Dry Rock" by Irwin Shaw, and "Quality" by John Galsworthy. All four stories, with generous comments on each, are printed in full in the literature text, where they should be studied. Fortunately, one of the four stories, "Birthday Party,' is short enough that it can be included in full in this lesson: BIRTHDAY PARTY by Katherine Brush They were a couple in their. Late. Thirties, and they looked un- 946 mistakably married. They sat on the banquette opposite us in a little narrow restaurant, having dinner. The man had a round, self-satisfied face, with glasses on it; the woman was fadingly pretty, in a big hat. There was nothing conspicuous about them, nothing particularly noticeable, until the end of their meal, when it suddenly became obvious that this was an Occasion—in fact, the husband's birthday, and the wife had planned a little surprise for him. It arrived, in the form of a small but glossy birthday cake, with one pink candle burning in the center. The headwaiter brought it in and placed it before the husband, and meanwhile the violin-and-piano orchestra played "Happy Birthday to You," and the wife beamed with shy pride over her little surprise, and such few people as there were in the restaurant tried to help out with a pattering of applause. It became clear at once that help was needed, because the husband was not pleased. Instead he was hotly embarrassed, and indignant at his wife for embarrassing him. You looked at him and you saw this and you thought, "Oh, now, don't be like that!'' But he was like that, and as soon as the little cake had been deposited on the table, and the orchestra had finished the birthday piece, and the general attention had _ shifted from the man and the woman, I saw him say something to her under his breath—some punishing thing, quick and curt and unkind. I couldn't bear to look at the woman then, so I stared at my plate and waited for a long time. Not long enough, though. She was still crying when I finally glanced over there again. Crying quietly and heartbrokenly and hopelessly, all to herself, under the gay big brim of her best hat. Comments on "Birthday Party" Katharine Brush (1902-—) is an American journalist, novelist, and short-story writer. Although her work is popular, it is also of excellent quality, as the preceding story shows. "Birthday Party" is a very short short-story, but a whole drama of life is compressed into its three little paragraphs. The two qualities that have always LESSON DEPARTMENT characterized short stories—brevity and unity—are seen here in exaggeration: the goal of a short story writer having always been to use words economically and to make them all pertain to a central theme or mood or character portrayal. Note how precisely each word is chosen in this story, 'as precisely as if it were a lyric poem. From an Aristotelian point of view, the little story is artistically almost flawless. The scene presented in the story is not pretty. Obviously the marriage has gone sour and neither husband nor wife is happy, at least not this day. It is as if the skin of life had been peeled back exposing the raw sore of a marriage failure, or at least a nasty marriage quarrel. The most interesting point for discussion is to see how the author has in a few deft phrases suggested the source of the marriage problem. Note how basically different the husband and wife are. The "fading pretty" woman apparently is sentimental, romantic, nostalgically looking to the past and trying to hold on to the romance that is also fading. The husband is brusque and practical. But is the problem simply that they are different? Who is the villain of the little story? That the husband is cruel is obvious. He deliberately says cutting words to his wife, deliberately hurts her. Such action is, of course, inexcusably mean and crude—especially since he knows that his wife has tried to do something sweet for him. But is the wife also at fault? Obviously the husband is unfeeling towards his wife's wishes and 947 DECEMBER 1964 needs. Is she also unfeeling towards his? If she really loved and understood him, if she really thought of him and not of herself, would she plan a public party for his birthday? Wouldn't she know that such a party would embarrass him? Wouldn't she realize that he would be annoyed by a public display of personal sentiment? Note on the Other Stories The remaining three stories covered by this lesson are too long to be printed here and will need to be studied in the literature text. All that we can do here is comment briefly on them to show how they, too, expose the evil of selfishness and, directly or by implication, affirm the ideal of unselfishness. Comments on "'The New Dress'"' Virginia Woolf (1882-1941), author of "The New Dress," is one of the most gifted of English short-story writers. "The New Dress" is written in the third person. It takes place entirely within the mind of Mabel Waring, letting us know her thoroughly, perhaps even more thoroughly than we know ourselves. Principally the story is a character sketch, or personality study—revealing Mabel as a very selfish woman, and therefore a very limited and unhappy woman. Having the right attitudes may not be everything in the world, but it is certainly one of the most important things. Two people can have essentially the same jobs, same incomes, same_ environ- 948 ments, same experiences—yet one will be happy and the other unhappy. The difference is attitude. Two writers can look at the same world around them with the same mixture of good and evil, of the beautiful and the ugly—yet one will react to it optimistically and the other pessimistically. The difference is again attitude. Whether we are happy or unhappy, optimistic or pessimistic, affirmative or negative, appreciative or fault-finding, pleasant or sour depends not so much on external incidents as on inner attitudes. Unfortunately, some people are like Mabel Waring. She is painfully self-conscious and unhealthily self-pitying. In her extreme introversion she spends all of her time imagining what others are thinking about her, and generally imagining the worst. She is so concerned with herself and her appearance that she can think of nothing else, do nothing constructive. Obviously she needs to follow the advice of Christ and forget herself in the service of others, thus finding herself by losing herself. One might say that she has an extreme inferiority complex. But there is something strange about an inferiority complex: It is also a superiority complex. Mabel is so obsessed with feeling sorry for herself that she thinks other people spend their time pitying her, when the truth is that other people probably are not even aware of her much of the time. An egoist, even a selfpitying egoist, is generally deep down inside also an egotist. And so Mabel goes on year after year seeing herself as a drab fly try- ing to crawl over the edge of a saucer with all the beautiful butterflies looking on and scorning her. If one has tendencies to be like Mabel, great strength of will is necessary to throw off the selfpity and develop a healthy attitude toward oneself and one's environment. But it can be done. The first step is to recognize the tendencies, and the second step is to exert the constant will power necessary to overcome them. One purpose for including ''The New Dress" in the literature text is that seeing the unwholesome qualities in Mabel may help us to detect them in ourselves if they are present. Comments on "The Dry Rock'' Irwin Shaw (1913-—) is a gifted contemporary American writer, and his story "The Dry Rock"' is a very simple yet very powerful selection. It is easy to read and understand, its characters are distinctly drawn, and its message is explicit. A realistic richness of detail makes it remarkably convincing, effective, and, above all, meaningful. The best way to approach this story is to start with an examination of its characters, all sharply focused and placed in opposition to each other) First there is Leopold Tarloff, the foreign cabdriver—a little old man, pathetically proud, who years ago came from a distant land to a strange city to seek his fortune. Now, years later, he is just a little old man with a small job in a great city. Neither fame nor fortune has come to him, yet he still has LESSON DEPARTMENT what for him was always most important—his simple faith in honor and justice. And in contrast to this little cabby there is young Rusk — arrogant, noisy, disrespectful, and crude. His vulgar, slangy language immediately gives him away as unrefined and coarse. The contrast between Mr. Fitzsimmons and his wife is almost as sharp. Fitzsimmons is moved by the plight of the old cabby and feels a strong duty to stand by him, even at the cost of a quarrel with his wife. He knows that the cabby's cause is just, and he feels a responsibility to do something for him. Mrs. Fitzsimmons, on the other hand, is as little concerned with justice as is Rusk; and her language, although more sophisticated, is just as crude and even more nastily sarcastic. She is utterly selfish. As to principle, of course she believes in it, as long as it doesn't inconvenience her—as long as it doesn't make her late for a dinner party. As the story draws to its close, Tarloff stands all alone—abandoned high and dry on the rock of principle. Only after Fitzsimmons yields to the pressure of expediency and shrugs Tarloff off his conscience does the old cabby wearily know that he is defeated. Even then he maintains some integrity by refusing the ten dollars. One value of such a story as this is that it brings dramatically into focus the need to live by principles. In an age when convenience and rush threaten to shape all our decisions, wherever we live, we need to be reminded that there are principles of hon- 949 DECEMBER 1964 esty and justice and freedom and purity so important that they must remain unviolated at any cost. It is also important to remember that if principles are sacrificed in small situations, they will be so weakened that they will not be strong enough to stand in big situations. Such a reminder, sharply given by this story, should make any _ thoughtful reader forever after a little more sensitive in conscience when confronted with a situation where principle is involved. Comments on ''Quality"' John Galsworthy (1867-1933), English author of "Quality," is principally known as a novelist (The Forsyte Saga, etc.) but is also an_ excellent short-story writer. The three preceding stories discussed in this lesson all expose, in different ways, the evil of selfishness. In contrast, the old German bootmaker who is the central character of "Quality" is a genuinely good and thoroughly unselfish man, sympathetically portrayed by Galsworthy in such a way as at once to be both admired and pitied—admired for what he is, and pitied for what the world does to him. There is something fine and beautiful and sad about this story. In an age when the emphasis is too much on quantity and too little on quality, when too many people have their eyes focused on what they get out of life rather than what they can give to life, when more and more people want more and more money for less and less work, and too 950 much attention is given to time clocks and salary checks—in such an age this story serves as a poignant reminder that quality workmanship is both rare and valuable. Someone long ago said that he who works with his hands is a laborer, pity him; he who works with his hands and his head is a craftsman, respect him; and he who works with his hands and his head and his heart is an artist, honor him. Surely no one can read this story without gaining a greater reverence for unselfish work and high-quality workmanship. There is a satisfaction in doing good work, not for praise or reward, but for integrity's sake, simply because "a thing worth doing is worth doing well." Such a story as this should make us ashamed of any work that is less than the best we are capable of doing, ashamed of any selfish short-cut or compromise that _ sacrifices quality — and should make us glow with respect whenever we see work of the highest quality done for its own sake and because of the honesty of the one who does it. For shoddy work is in fact a kind of dishonesty. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. In "Birthday Party" what clues and hints does the author give to show the difference between the husband and wife and expose the failure of their marriage? 2. List as many as you can of Mabel's qualities in '""The New Dress" and discuss to what extent these qualities all reflect aspects of selfishness. What could Mabel do to overcome these self-destructive qualities? 3. At the end of "The Dry Rock" whom does Fitzsimmons dislike even more than he dislikes his wife, and why? 4. In every day life are we confronted with situations when we must LESSON DEPARTMENT choose between principle and convenience? Mention some similar situations. 5.: In "Quality," what qualities do we most admire in the old bootmaker? SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government Flder Ariel S. Ballif Lesson 19 — The Value of Church Activity For Fourth Meeting, March 1965 Objective: To show that activity in the Church Human beings are expected by their Creator to be actively employed in doing good every day of their lives, either in improving their own mental and physical condition or that of their neighbours (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 9:190). BASIC PHILOSOPHY Religious activity does not begin and end in the confines of a Church structure. Church activity is found in the persistent application of the teachings of Jesus Christ in every human endeavor. Jesus was always "about his Father's business" which was bringing all men back to the presence of the Creator. His was a life of continual service to the children of men. He chose men is essential to the fulness of life. From service in all walks of life to assist him and, through his organization, he extended the opportunity of service to as many as accepted his teachings. From a formal organizational point of view, the Lord has provided unlimited opportunities for Church members to serve. Some of the assignments are small, but all are important to the successful functioning of the total program. The Savior did not confine his activity to the formal structure of the Church organization. Whenever and wherever the opportunity presented itself to relieve suffering, make people happy, and justify their faith, Christ willingly offered his services. He set the example which brings to mind the 951 DECEMBER 1964 quotation, "be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only." The spirit of the gospel _is service tempered with love, faith, and integrity. The effective functioning of Church organization is de- | pendent upon a_ participating membership. It is the active member who grows in belief and faith. The real joy and satisfaction that come from missionary work for the Church come from the complete dedication of the missionary tothe work of the Lord. Every moment in the missionary's day in the field is devoted to the advancing of the plan of life and salvation, giving freely of himself for the welfare and improvement of others. The challenge is for every member to apply the principles of the gospel with a zeal equal to the missionary work and with equal enthusiasm to his daily activities, thus demonstrating to all the truths of our teachings. Church service implies more than filling an assignment or merely doing something for someone. Tude of mind as demonstrated by the Savior. It: has many facets of expression. Among them are: (1) the voluntary desire to do good; (2) performance for the love of doing good _ without thought of reward; (3) the thought of the welfare of others; and (4) assistance in the building of the kingdom. The main implication in this kind of service is to establish peace in the hearts of men. In this light, service becomes a blessing to mankind. ACTIVITY AND SPIRITUAL GROWTH Our Church leadership has pointed out that officers in The 952 Basic to service is the atti- C Church of Jesus Christ are called for two distinct purposes: First and foremost, service to the peo- | ple; and secondly, the personal. Development and enlarged understanding which always - follow earnest service in responsible positions. _It is an honorable privilege and a personal benefit to be allowed to serve in an official position in the Church; and an office, whatever it may be, should be accepted in a spirit of grateful appreciation. As stated above, an office in the Church is a call to service. Frequently we hear people say, "I am not well enough prepared to fill such an assignment." It is good to be modest and humble, but the better attitude would be, "T am willing to do my best," and then do just that. Doing one's best includes the following: (1) Humility; one must be humble to enjoy the assistance of the Spirit of God. In all callings in the Church, one must recognize that what he is called to do is the Lord's work.. And he can be effective in his calling only when-he works in harmony with the Spirit of the Lord. Prayer is the means of communication with the Lord, and the Holy Ghost can be the source of enlightenment and understanding. (2) Work; it ls necessary for one to use the intelligence he has been blessed with and be willing to work long and hard in preparation for the performance of his duties. One very successful inventor has observed that his genius is ninety-nine per cent perspiration and one per cent inspiration. The point is that one must be willing to pay the price of success in any calling in terms of energy expended and _ hard work. (3) Enthusiasm; one must be enthusiastic about his assignment. Every person should be enthusiastic about his membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is a distinction and an opportunity to be assigned a part in this great latter-day movement. Each person in a position in. This Church is, in a special sense, a witness of: the divine nature of the restored gospel. (4) Worthimess;.. It is most obvious that one must be worthy before accepting a call. Worthiness may be evaluated by observing oneself in relation to the following: (a) being a regular participant in the important meetings of the Church; (b) believing in and participating regularly in prayer; (c) being honest with the Lord in tithes and offerings; (d) keeping the law of chastity; (e) sustaining the prophet of God, including no evil speaking of the Lord's anointed; (f) knowing the true value of the Word of Wisdom and applying it; (g) having proper respect for the Lord's holy day; and (h) evidencing his dedication to the accomplishment of the work of the Lord. There may be other criteria but these mentioned will serve as good examples of the requirements of a person to be worthy to hold a position in the Church. Therefore, any person who has a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel, who is willing to accept a calling through proper authority, and who is willing to pay the price suggested above, can successfully fill any call that comes to him in the Church. By accepting the opportunity for service in the Church, one cannot help but advance both menLESSON DEPARTMENT tally and spiritually. A major compensation for devoted service is the joy that comes from the witness of the Holy Ghost in enlarging the personal conviction as to the reality of God the Father and his. Son Jesus Christ. THE GROUP EFFECT It is stimulating to think of the potential within each ward. Of the Church manned with some two hundred fifty workers, dedicated to the advancement and general welfare of mankind. If each individual in the ward: could fully qualify under the criteria mentioned above, the influence of such a group could affect for good the standards and values of the whole community. (See Lesson 18.) The building of the kingdom of God on earth will require performance on the part of each member equal to or higher than that suggested in the earlier part of this lesson. To build the kingdom from a material point of view is a problem of effective use of nature's products; but from a human point of view, the challenge is far greater. This requires convincing the men and women of this world that the way of life taught by Jesus Christ is the effective, productive way to live. To accomplish this, the hearts of people must be touched; and the way to their hearts is love and understanding. This requires an army of men and women directed by the power of God who can demonstrate the effectiveness of the gospel plan in everyday living. A CALL TO SERVICE To build an army of workers equal to the task at hand, at least 953 DECEMBER 1964 two things must be done. First, develop_among the members a positive attitude toward acceptance of Church assignments. Every member must have the conviction, without reservation, that he is willing to serve in any capacity, atany time. This is the work of the Lord and we cannot afford to make the Lord wait. This attitude is primarily a product of the home. Secondly, a person must be called to_the_ office by _ proper authority. 'We. Believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof" (Fifth Article of Faith). In our lessons last year, we pointed out the importance of the method by which a person is called to service. The bishop, stake president, or General Authority interviews the person for worthiness and approves for leadership, while those responsible for the organization to which the new leader is assigned, train him for the specific duties of the calling. A call to service can have therapeutic value to new members and to those who are weak in the faith. Encouragement, therefore, should be given by assigning to them carefully selected areas of service. If small responsibilities are given at first, the individual can develop confidence and receive the warmth in his soul that comes from doing something for others. He thus receives the personal stimulation that comes from being needed,: the feeling that he is essential to the successful operation of the organization. 954 PRIESTHOOD AND AUXILIARY WORK The responsibility of leadership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints rests in the Priesthood. In an effort to care for the intellectual, spiritual, and temporal welfare of all the members, the Church has added, from time to time, various organizations to provide training in the gospel, meet a variety of human needs, and, at the same time, offer opportunities for leadership to large numbers of members. These auxiliary or assisting organizations have always been responsible to the Priesthood. The Priesthood provides the dynamics of Church organization, yet. Much of the energy spent inauxiliary work and activity comes from the -women.. - Today, more than ever before, Church leadership is expending great effort to coordinate all the activities of the Church with the Priesthood. The valuable work experience gained from the years of auxiliary work has developed many people who are nationally recognized as leaders in the activities of the various age groupings within society. These people, under Priesthood leadership, are formulating auxiliary programs in age groupings that eliminate unnecessary duplication, but give proper emphasis to the essential teachings of the Church to each age group. The coordinating effort of the Priesthood includes more than a study of theology, it relates the religious teachings to all phases of human association. BE YE ONE In discussing the value of Church activity, we must recognize that the term "'value" has a dual meaning: (1) the value from the point of view of the individual is unlimited, as has been pointed out. (2) The value of activity to the Church as a whole, is of vital importance. Jesus constantly pointed out to his disciples the importance of service. To Peter he said, '"'Lovest thou me? Feed my sheep." In the scriptures, old and new, he said, "If thou lovest me thou shalt serve me and keep all of my commandments" (D&C 42:29; see also John 14:15, 21). How can we serve God or love him? Simply by loving and serving his children. The whole purpose of Christ's mission was the resurrection and exaltation of mankind. This can be brought about by the constant effort of every disciple of Jesus Christ. It will not be achieved in a moment, or a day, or a year, and it will not be accomplished in the activities of the Sabbath Day only. It will be accomplished when men and women overcome selfishness, bridle their appetites, and perform the tasks of everyday life in the light of religious ideals. To accomplish the purpose of Christ's mission, it will be necessary for every member to live the law of consecration, dedicating his time, talents, and other things to the building of the kingdom and establishing righteousness in the hearts of men. Activity in the Church means service to your fellow men. Every man should esteem his brother as himself. (D&C 38:24-25.) For "when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). Service begets love, and love begets unity, and unity begets peace in the hearts of men.: & oe ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee es ee ee ee ee ee ee ee oe ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee eee ee eee = CHRISTMAS MUSIC We Have Christmas Musicin All Categories: weeee lllPIANO MUSIC IN BOOKS AND SEPARATE SOLO FORM. Ae. ORGAN MUSIC. VeelINSTRUMENTAL SOLOS AND DUETS. IeCANTATAS AND CHORAL MUSIC. PLEASE INDICATE WHAT CATEGORY YOU DESIRE AND WE WILL SEND A SELECTION ON APPROVAL. Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 EAST Ist SOUTH { { Use this advertisement as your | | | | | SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84111 | Name ooo eee cece cc ceee ce eeeeeeeneee ees { | '! Git -. Dtnse ee } State Zip Code i | |._--2-- '| l DAYNES MUSIC 15 E. Ist SOUTH i SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH | | order blank \p.. I ge Sgt A | wae = BS a. An 955 ROSE PARADE TOUR 8 days — December 27 to January 3 via Las Vegas and San Diego ROSE PARADE TOUR 9 days — December 26 to January 3 via San Francisco Dinner and dancing at Lawrence Welks' etc. On both Rose Parade Tours. HAWAIIAN TOURS FEBRUARY & MAY 14 days in the Islands, 7 days in the Outer Islands Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop UTAN CRAFT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! % Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, ribbon flowers, satin fruit & many others. Write for new catalog. 50c Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT & NOVELTY CO. New Address 3220 So. State, Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 956 "T say unto you, be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine" (D&C 38:27). THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. How is service essential to salvation? 2. To what extent did Jesus give his services? 3. What is the relation of Church activity to testimony? 4. What is one outstanding value in having a lay leadership? 5. Can the oneness of God the Father and his Son he attained by mankind? REFERENCES Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 38, 42. Discourses of Brigham Young, compiled by John A. Widtsoe, Chapter VII. BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone 6..90 Zone 3..60 Zone 7. —..,1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8. 1.20 Zone 5.80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. Ro s 4 PESERET PREwS PRESS P ps 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 MUSIC FOR SINGING How Do |! Love Thee r - 20 23rd Psalm (Schubert) ae 25 O Saviour of the World eee 2) Eternal Life _ Moo oa. 25 God of All Nature Pe. Oe.. 230 Go Ye Forth With My Word _.25 Abide With Me 0.0 2eececeeeeceeeees.20 Onward Christian Soldiers..30 Bridge Builder he...20 Lerd Bless Thee and Keep Thee.20 In His Steps. 25 Hear My Prayer re 25 Be Ye Strong...25 Gospel Gives Unbounded 'Strength | _.30 In My Father's House Are a" MANSIONS cece cee cee ences eccceeeseeeeeeeeees Solo - —...60 SATB. 25 SSA Not Published.. A Music Sent on Approval Write for Our Choral Catalog For All Your Musical Needs Write Gero Music Co Box 2009 Idaho Falls, Idaho 83402 JUST OFF THE PRESS! Three Days in the Holy City, Zion by H. O. Ruf This most uncommon and highly interesting new book contains both a fictional episode out of the future and a doctrinal view of conditions that will exist in the Holy City of Zion. BOOKCRAFT — Publishers to the L. D. S. Trade. Order from your nearest Bookcraft dealer or from BOOKCRAFT THE HOLY CITY, ZION for which | enclose check or money order for $ 0000.0 eee | | | | Please send ( ) copies of THREE DAYS IN | | | | | GENEALOGICAL RESEARCH TOUR TO GREAT BRITAIN Because of the outstanding success of our 1964 Tour of Researchers to England and Scotland — 15 searching club members — 15 success stories — we have chosen Great Britain for our 1965 Tours. I. Leave Salt Lake City — Air-Jet May 11 — Return June 21 4 wks. Supervised Genealogy Search in Great Britain Ample supervised preparation before Tour 2 wks. Tour of Scandinavia or Europe All Expense World's Fair — New York City Il. Leave Salt Lake City — June 21 — Return July 26 4 wks. Genealogical Searching in Great Britain Ample Supervised Preparation before Tour 2 wks. Tour of Scandinavia or Europe All Expense World's Fair N. Y. —Hill Cumorah Pageant RESEARCHERS-on-the-SPOT Eleanor M. Hall, Secretary 157 N. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84116 Phone 359-1679 MEXICAN TOUR Departure February 2 ROSE PARADE TOURS Departure Dates: December 26 December 27 HAWAIIAN TOUR December and February Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-258) 957 Faith Building PERSONALLY-CONDUCTED TOURS THE HOLY LAND AND BOOK OF MORMON LANDS ~ MURDOCK TRAVEL Your Experienced Travel Counselor * BOOK OF MORMON LAND TOURS Conducted by Murdock Specialist Jose Davila. Jan. 16. 1965 and Mar. 6, 1965. * 16 Exciting Days among such ruins as the Jaredite Pyramids, Izapa, the Mayan Ruins of Tikal, and famous Chichen Itza. * All expenses paid! Quality travel and accomodations! Congenial company! * THE HOLY LAND TOURS April 8, 1965 and October 8, 1965. * 20 days of worry free travel including such places as Istanbul, Damascus, Tyre. Sidon, Cairo, Jericho, Jerusalem, and Athens. * Amazingly low cost travel on top quality carriers! Ea eoereeseeoeeoeeeexnezseeeeeereneeoeeoeo? Send for full particulars now:: Murdock Travel, Inc., 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City — Phone: 328-3161 Please send me full particulars on the above mentioned tour(s): N@ime:.. 0 ee ee oo Address: ccsslaccccccevoes City: State: Zip: Again Tonight Christie Lund Coles Across the hills of Bethlehem, | seem to walk again tonight, Accompanied by staff and star And shepherds who had seen the light, Who followed humbly, questioning This star so luminous and new, So filled with radiance and hope, That I, as they, must find it true. | go with Wise Men richly gowned Who followed, too, and proudly came With gifts of rich magnificence, Marked with his holy, holy name. 958 | pause with them beside the stall, Beside the manger's fragrant hay, And see with wonder and surprise, The place the dream-eyed baby lay. | kneel, | tremble at the scene, | whisper humble, gentle prayers; | walk with those of long ago, My spirit tremulous as theirs. My worship is as awe-inspired, My reverence is as deeply wrought. Across a long two thousand years, | find the Savior earth has sought. Dirtheley Congratulations One Hundred One Mrs. Catherine Jones Erickson Monroe, Utah Ninety-nine Mrs. Elizabeth Taylor Mcintyre Rexburg, Idaho Ninety-eight Mrs. Adeline Johnson Nyquist Weiser, Idaho Mrs. Mary. Newman Evans Tooele, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. Annie M. Roberts Smith Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. Louisa Haag Abegg Done Tucson, Arizona Mrs. Laura Benson Wray Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Nancy Olive Dawson Helton Oakland, California Mrs. Olive Draper Anderson Nephi, Utah Mrs. Rosilla E. Osborn Ogden, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Katie Holladay Cragun Portland, Oregon Ninety-three Mrs. Emma J. Ottesen Halverson Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Dorthea Larsen Peterson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Louisa Nellie Croshaw Gambles Bancroft, Idaho Mrs. Mary E. Wilson Haynie Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Mary Raymond Peart Kaysville, Utah Mrs. Abbie Jane Moyer Willden Price, Utah 960 Ninety-two Mrs. Nettie' Hunt Rencher Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. S. Jennie Rees Tanner Moroni, Utah Mrs. Alice Grimm Buckmiller Murray, Utah Mrs. Arletta Bollwinkel Grace, Idaho Ninety-one Mrs. Mary Ann -Shields McLaws -Tooele, Utah Mrs. Diantha Sanderson Fairview, Utah Mrs. Ellen Jane Bowen Graham Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Barbara Ellen Merrill Hawke Lorenzo, Idaho Mrs. Sarah P. Stevenson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Virginia Taylor Olson Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Nora O. Sullivan Auburn, Wyoming ~ Mrs. Jeanette Bennion Gerrard Taylorsville, Utah Mrs. Emily Ritchie Peterson Roy, Utah Mrs. Isabella Augusta Brown Osborne Mill Valley, California Mrs. Martine Lundgren Leishman Baker, Oregon Mrs. Estella Lesser Wright Castro Valley, California Mrs. Evelyn S. Koehler Menlo Park, California Mrs. Lottie Greenwood Hansen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Kathryn Marquardson Kirkman Spokane, Washington Mrs. Emily Ritchie Peterson Roy, Utah NS ——————— l. OUT OF THE BEST BOOK Literature, Volume I, The Individual and Human Values by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas A beautiful gift for Christmas! The Relief Society reading course for 1964-65! This volume ties in the works of the true greats of literature with fundamental gospel ideals and principles! The works of Browning, Burns, Wordsworth and many others are analyzed. $2.95 I5 cents postage - ANCIENT APOSTLES by David O. McKay A new edition of a volume that everyone will want to read again and again! Ancieni Apostles will acquaint readers more intimately with those Sterling characteristics of the men who walked and taught with the Savior. S — An Anthology of $2.95 3. A CONVERT'S TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY by Frederic E. Schulter A prominent and successful American, a convert to the LDS Church in 1953, pays tribute to the Mormon prophet-leader. Here is an absolutely fresh look at the beloved Latter-day Saint president. $1.50 SZ = SS= =: SSS S555 eseret Book 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST, ORANGE, CALIFORNIA a b Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Enclosed please find check __money orde I have an account, please charge |} AMO Bee hee: for the above numbered books. | 2 3 Pee eee he nL ame ecg LCI eae aan CR Rea ya S20 SE RE Bie een) a) ae Resident of Utah please add 3%% sales tax. R. S. Dec. '64 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Special Premiums from U and | Sugar BOWLS and PANS AT WHOLESALE PRICES! DuPont Teflon for Stick-Free Cooking Chicken Fryer (10"), Cover, and Spatula. Value $6.95 With U & | Label. $3.75 Griddle (114%2") Y Value $4.95 Saute Pan (8"). Value With U & | Label. $3.50 With U & | Label. $2.25 $2.75 3 West Bend Stainless Steel Serve-Mix'N Stor Quality Plastic Party Cake Pans Bowls, 3 Pieces. Value $4.00 Bowl Set. 4 Bowls with Trans- 4 Piece Aluminum With U & | Label. $2 75 lucent Covers plus Electric Value $2.25 With U & | Label. Mixing Bowl. Value $4.95 With $1 00 U & | Label.: $>*50
