Relief Society Magazine Volume 51 Number 5 | May 1964 Margery S. Stewart |! Am crowded within With lilies and new oranges Green as jade on the beloved bough. Stars flow through me, for | have Made room for stars, a space For suns. | have grown out Of myself, this morning. | have grown out of the knotted Gourd grieved bone, Broken bowl, Out of intolerable pain | grew into this tall self, This self who knows what Mocking birds are crying Upon the morning, for I, Like them, am become notes Of music. | can be placed in any melody, Movement, in symphony or lullaby, Or the deep singing of the Field woman, gathering apples In September. The Cover: R Roses on a White Fence, Cape Cod, Massachusetts ey Transparency by Josef Muench, Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: t Trees That Lean Over Water, Lake Mempremagog, Vermont Photograph by H. Armstrong Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: C Mary Scopes The Magazine is now an integral part of my life, and I look forward so much to receiving my copies. I pass them on to my Relief Society sisters so that they may enjoy the lessons, and then they always manage to read the Magazine from cover to cover. May you go from strength to strength with this wonderful Magazine, and continue to bring joy to us all. Olive M. Evans Lichfield, Staffordshire England My heart went out to Sister Lundgren when I read her article in the January issue of the Magazine — "What Is a Work Meeting Leader?" She put into words what I have felt in my heart. Thanks to the wonderful counselors and stake leaders I had while serving as a work leader, and also my work leader, while I was work director counselor, that I have this warm feeling for Relief Society. Mrs. Donaldine J. Boase Salt Lake City, Utah As each March 10th arrives, a white card is placed in my mailbox announcing the renewal of subscription for the most interesting Magazine I have ever read — a gift from my wonderful mother, for many years — The Relief Society Magazine. From its pages have come comforting theughts and truths, which stand as a witness for the salvation of man. Irene Carrigan Winn Ogden, Utah I want to thank you for our beautiful, inspiring Magazine. I wait impatiently each month for the Magazine and the words of love and advice it contains. Shirley Woolf Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia South Africa I want to let you know how much I do enjoy reading the J zine. Each article holds so meaning and seems to give extra extra special lift. I was r last September, and my mot me a year's subscription to the zine as a Christmas present. I think of a better gift. Mrs. Dale Hamp Soda Springs, Idaho This little booklet (The ciety Magazine) has been = so much. When I have fai any headway with my frie ting forward the Latter-c story, I find the Magazine s them in the lovely stories articles. Margaret McLinto Rutherglen, lar Over the years, as a R worker, I have used the tl Celia Luce (a frequent c The Relief Society Mag times in conducting a c Venice M. Cr Phoenix, Arizona I was delighted to March issue of the M article (by Myrtle E. He the proper use of language. The mistakes most often m considered. Please give us | helps. We should take more | speaking correctly. Perhaps, errors are pointed out, and sons why they are not co explained, we will improve n idly. As a Maggzine repres I find it easy to get new suk as well as renewals, to our because of the excellent helps wide range and interest of the Olive H. Fox Salt Lake City, Utah 

VOLUME 51 MAY 1964 NUMBER 5
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford
Special Features
324 The Family Goes Back to School Elaine Reiser Alder
328 Literary Contest Announcements 1964
331 Your Poem and You Eva Willes Wangsgaard
339 Art As a Hobby Myrtle E. Henderson
376 Magazine Honor Roll for 1963 Marianne C. Sharp
Fiction
334 Adjustment Alice Guhler Sabin
342 Gramps and Beanie Shirley Thulin
370 Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 4 Hazel M. Thomson
General Features
322 From Near and Far
347 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon
348 Editorial: The Lighted Window Vesta P. Crawford
390 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker
400 Birthday Congratulations
The Home - Inside and Out
What Is a Mother? by Margaret Richards, 351; Mother — Pioneer of the Present, by Hazel
Sowards Cannon, 352; Thanks, Mom, for Everything, by Sara O. Moss, 353; Verdi on
the Farm, by Winona F. Thomas, 354; Ask Mrs. Braithwaite, by Janice Dixon, 356;
A Letter From Grandma, by Violet Nimmo, 358; A Call in the Night, by Mary E.
Gallamore, 359; Cuddly Crib Quilts, by Adelle Ashby, 360; Sewing Time, by Dorothy
C. Little, 362; Potpourri of Handy Hints, by Jo M. Stock, 362; Recipes From the Southwest,
by Romaine R. Cooksey, 363; Appetite Teasers for Preschoolers, by Margaret
Maxwell, 364; Oatmeal Date Bread, by Anne Marie Astle, 366; Select Your Own Dessert,
by Patricia M. Faas, 367; Transfers for Children's Clothing, by Janet W. Breeze, 367;
From the Dear Windows of Home, by Leona Fetzer Wintch, 368; Alma A. Fernelius —
"Lady of Lovely Crocheting," 369; The Right Key, by Luella Foster, 388; Whom
Should I Seek? by Blanche Briggs, 388; Joy, by Olive Sharp, 389; Double Your
Pleasure — Double Your Subscription, by Ouida Johns Pedersen, 389; Life Is Beautiful,
by Ida G. Hepworth, 397.
Poetry
321 I Am Crowded Within — Frontispiece Margery S. Stewart
Secret, by Ida Elaine James, 330; Spring Lambs, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 333; My Neighbor,
by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 337; Valley Sky at Sunrise, by Pearle M. Olsen, 338; Renewal, by Caroline
Eyring Miner, 350; Prayer for My Daughter, by CaroUe Denton, 375; Prayer for People,
by Gilean Douglas, 381; Memory, by Grace Barker Wilson, 398; Summer Song, by
Linnie F. Robinson, 398; We Pass But Once, by Catherine B. Bowles, 399; Unsaid Words,
by Zara Sabin, 399; Shape of Time, by Thelma J. Limd, 399; My Mother, by Christie
Lund Coles, 400.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. the Relief Society

The Family Goes BAck To School Elaine Reiser Alder The Egg Carton Castle Eugene, Oregon September 1963 Dear Sharon: W uar fun it has been, thinking of all the things about which to write you. Ever since you asked me to tell you some of the secrets of being a happy "student wife," I have had a chance to think back over the five years Doug and I are concluding as graduate student and wife. As you know, he will receive his Ph. D. In the spring, and I must confess that getting my P. H. T. (Putting Husband Through), along with him has been equally as challenging, if not more fun! So, let's chat about some aspects of married student life. Having a small baby, as you do and I did, and moving to a new town into barracks-type housing, may present demands on your matriage which you haven't expected. We readily admit that the early years of our schooling presented some adjustment for both of us. Doug was at school all day until suppertime, but he enjoyed his two hours at home then, playing with the baby. He returned to the library nearly every evening until it closed at 10 p. M. — and our thin-walled apartment, with its creaky floors, didn't make me feel very much at home. But I soon realized that all the other student wives around me enjoyed friendships during those long afternoons and evenings, at least as much as I. I tried to find opportunities to meet some of them and found the time rewarding. As our friendships grew, we enjoyed visiting in each other's homes, sharing ideas, helping with sewing or knitting projects, trading magazines, and even having "potluck" suppers to the surprise of our husbands every month or so. As our children grew older, we took turns tending each other's children so that each of us could have an afternoon off. The friendships we have cultivated in our student living have remained as choice as any we hope to have. Most of us have moved from our barracks community, but we still delight in hearing of graduations, births, and progress of each child. We long to visit each other in different parts of the world. Though the days are long — and must be if the husband is to get all his studying, writing, and part-time work done — you will no doubt find the time you spend with Tom is so precious that you enjoy every minute of it. Doug and I even enjoyed grocery shopping once a week — because it was our Friday night date and a chance to get away from the books! Sundays were our special days of rest from schoolwork with Church activities and visits from friends and quiet relaxation in the evening, listening to the rebroadcast of the Tabernacle Choir, 1000 miles away. Dorinc the long days and evenings, you can keep busy doing many things which will make the hours productive and Tom proud of you — learning to cook special dishes and surprising him with them at supper, sewing for yourself, Tom, and the children (a real money-sayer), making Christmas cards and gifts, embroidering, knitting, making a baby book or scrapbook, writing letters or reading. You may have other hobbies I am not aware of, but this is a good opportunity to enjoy them. The time can be wasted or used — depending on what you wish. While Tom is progressing mentally in his schooling, vou will realize that you can come closer together if you engage in some kind of mental activity similar THE FAMILY GOES BACK TO SCHOOL to his studies. An often-used library card ls an inexpensive avenue toward keeping your mind alert. Above all, don't begrudge or apologize for the time you spend in school. It is a privilege to attend school, and nowadays it is so common for young couples with families to be in school that there is no need for embarrassment. Learn to laugh about the odd things you may have to do — seating guests on the floor because there aren't enough chairs, eating with odd kinds of utensils because you don't have complete table service, or eating beans for a week because your food money didn't quite hold out! Many of your neighbors are probably doing the same. Now that we are nearly through with school, we feel pangs for the fun and funny things about barracks living. We decided, when we moved away from our parents and _lifelong friends, that our chief sources of entertainment would be our children, Church activities, and our new friends. Since we knew no one at first, we began making friends and soon had scores of guests to invite to our home. Our favorite activity with friends was to invite them to our apartment "for dessert." We would serve punch and cookies or brownies and spend the evening visiting, sharing our colored slides, listening to music, or playing Scrabble. Our guests brought their children and put them to sleep on our bed. The next time we took Scott with us to their apartment nearby to enjoy a similar evening. Lr would be unfair to underestimate the value of the Young Marrieds program and Relief Society. Both gave us friends of all ages, and the opportunity to keep busy by serving others. I never lacked for a "mother 325 MAY 1964 FA tack to ceiling | with small, horseshoe-shaped cord tacks aw WA | le aN \ Hitt Cw on Aluminum foil (as heat protector) [ oa Knitting needles pierced through cardboard Cross-view of cardboard lampshade Shape with cardboard Cover inside with aluminum foil Cover outside with burlap or other material The knitting needles cross in center of lamp to hold bulb and socket in place. Total cost: Approx. 75c - $1.00. Away from home," because the women at Relief Society were all willing to be one to me. Scott has been active in Relief Society since he was six weeks old — and _ has loved it! One of the hardest things about student living is financial management. 'This is where you can shine, however. Studying week-end ads in the newspapers, preparing foods that are nutritious and yet inexpensive, and constantly watching 326 for ways of improving your money management will be keys to your success. Certain meat cuts (pot roast, shank end ham, chickens) provide good nutrition at minimum cost and allow "planned overs" for other days in the week, sandwiches, casseroles, soup stock, stew, hash, or cold plates. Keep your eyes open for other specials during the week end. If hamburger is the only thing in our price range, I make sure the trimmings — baked potato, tossed salad, and a favorite dessert — light up Doug's eyes: One day a week for baking gives us fresh bread, rolls, and dozens of cookies — at little cost. Rather than serving rich desserts, we eat fresh fruits and feel we are simply but well fed. You may find it economical to buy a quarter OF half of a beef, or cases of canned goods, jointly with another couple, and then dividing kept it filled with the beef, specials from the supermarket, and homefrozen fruits and vegetables which we bought (and often picked our selves) from farms nearby. We avoided expensive OF specialty foods, as a matter of economy, and have felt our health and budget are better for it. Gpeakinc of economy, let me mention a problem you may face when you get in the middle of things in your school routine. You may find, ment the but | at home. After advertising my Set vices as a typist, | never lacked for jobs which could be done while Scott slept oT played nearby. To baby sit for working mothers, some did ironing d one or two took orders for baked goods which they made at home. Living together sn an equal status, there was no. Class distinction for work — the most highly respected people were those who worked the hardest. There are a number of ways you may save money on home furnishTHE FAMILY GOES BACK TO SCHOOL ings. You would be amazed at the fun you can have making furniture and decorations for your apartment. We refinished old living room and dining room furniture which out parents gave US" and made room partitions from dyed burlap, painted We painted cheerful colors and made suitable curtains to match each ed with our "modern" hanging lamp in our living room — constructed of cardboard, aluminum foil, burlap (to match out partition ), and knitting needles! Our apartment even has flat corrugated ¢g8 dividers stapled to the ceiling for insulation, a legacy from the previous tenants— so we fondly call our 50° square feet of "home" the Egg Carton Castle! We hope you will enjoy your student years aS much as we have ours. We have been told time and again that "these are the rich years of life,""' and we realize it now as We step a little higher toward respons bility. Never again will we live so close to so many people and enjoy the association of young adults and children alike. We all had little money and often wondered if we would get through the month with a dime left, but we learned one valuable lesson through our student living — the value of the rich things in life. Friends, family, goals, education, music, beauty, d all things which the gospel gives to us _ these can be enjoyed regardless of where you live. Worthwhile source for these things — and we hope your years will hold such fond metmories for you as they do for us. With love, Elaine 327 Tue Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winner of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. 2 40 —_— o —_— Tue Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1964. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize -..--------.-------.---$40 Second prize 2 220-.-.---$30 Third prize -..--------$20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 328 mo y Poem Contest = 4 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for. Final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: THE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1964 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1964. The prizes this year will be. As follows: First prize - 0.0 22022222e eee.$75 Second prize 00.00.0 0 -$60 Third prize ---.---$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1965. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latterday Saint women — exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board — who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 1964° CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS Message or theme Form and pattern Rhythm and meter Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax ao Pp 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1964. 11. All-entries are to be. Addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. Thesstory must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must: be typewritten. The number of the words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A. Duplicate copy of the story should be retained -by 'contestants to 'insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will 329 MAY 1964 not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation. B. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style 9. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1964. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. Ida Elaine James School girls ever and endlessly, Twos and threes and single file Swinging their book straps, sweaters... Free! Breast the upgrade with a smile; Crossing, re-crossing each other... Behind, In front and beside... Stop, start, and march. | wonder what it is they find To smile about so much. The arch Of the gully is gray and overhung With dried, sad branches. Summer is dead, Loose stones are rude, yet gayly among Rough paths below, drab overhead, They thread their way, dally, and smile. One turns off alone; she looks at me. | follow her glance for half a mile — At the sky, at her toes, up at a tree. There's nothing but December air; Nothing to smile at that | can see. My searching circles everywhere; She smiles and smiles.. 330. Why should she? Poem Eva Willes Wangsgaard Author of Singing Hearts, After the Blossoming, Down This Road, Shape of Earth. Miost of what I have to say of poetry will incline toward the traditional, by which I mean that great part of our poetic literature from ''Beowulf" to Robert Frost's "Death of the Hired Man," in which the reader identified himself or herself with the characters, understood the ideals by which they lived and for which they died, and, knowing them, cast a light on the reader's own problems and purposes. From generation to generation through centuries, these poems have shed their influence on the growth of civilization as we know it. No one has so far created a satisfactory answer to the question: What is a poem? We can only open little doors. Poems resemble apples. They are of in- - finite variety, from the pretty but pulpless rose pip to the luscious Golden Delicious. A poem must be attractive in form to entice the reader, have meat you can sink your mental teeth into, a flavor that delights, excites, and satisfies, a core of wisdom, and seeds to project into other hearts and, perhaps, into the future. And, like the tree, a poem must have a reservoir of food from which to draw its sustenance. Now, how do you fill this reservoir? You Learn Fundamentals FIRST — A beginning poet needs a good rhyming dictionary, for, whether or not she ever intends to write rhyming verse, she should know what she is using or rejecting and give her poetry a chance to shape its own form before it is born. Besides, a rhyming dictionary, at least the one you will buy or own, begins with a chapter which explains and illustrates feet, meter, verse, variations, and stanza forms, and does it imterestingly and enjoyably. You will find as you study that you have already picked up subconsciously, through reading, many of the patterns and devices explained here. For instance, everyone, poet or layman, is aware of meter and rhyme to some degree. But the _ other phases of the subject, you can study and learn and store in the reservoir of your subconscious so they will be as automatic as your grammar and English usage. SECOND — Increase your vocabulary. A good 'Thesaurus helps here. It groups words and phrases on specific subjects and presents them _ alphabetically, words that convey kindness, for instance, classifying them as to nouns, verbs, adjectives, and ad- 331 MAY 1964 verbs, and including phrases as well as words. A good vocabulary includes the knowledge of the different meanings of a word. Merriam-Webster's Unabridged lists at least thirteen different meanings for the word take. You should study, at the same time, the values in letters and their play on the emotions. There are _ liquid sounds like / and r, sibilants like s, dentals like d and t. Live with them, roll them around on your tongue, feel them, so that when you need them they cluster around a thought as iron filings collect on a magnet. THIRD — Be natural. Write in the language of today as you speak, not in the vintage of an older day when words like o'er and e'er were in common usage and so are found in poetry also. Above all, let your language be sincere and natural, not necessarily conscious of being written. FOURTH — Read, read, and read. Especially read history, geography, the classics, and the Bible. Familiarize yourself with the general sciences — botany, geology, ornithology, and with philosophies and doctrines. From these spring your future allusions and images, and knowledge deepens your thinking and enhances your expression. FIFTH — Be aware. Make friends with all the living things about you. Know the shape of a leaf, its feel and texture; know the grasses, the bark of trees. Be aware of color in everything, petals, sky, old wood, rushes and reeds, earth and sea, everywhere. Become acutely aware of sounds and forms. Increase your interest and wonder. And store all 332 this as naturally as your body accepts its food. SIXTH — Write. Try out various meters, verse and _ stanza forms. Try out your thoughts. Let them flow. Criticize your technique afterward, but do not let it impede the flow. SEVENTH — and _ perhaps most important — Find the inner you. Let your thoughts sink into "the beyond" where you, and only you, dwell, so that the flavor of you is a part of every poem you write, not what you have been taught, or have read or heard, but really you. The savor of your experiences, your interpretations, incidents seen through your eyes, and your appreciation of your world, must enrich your poem. Let us illustrate the birth of a minor poem. Let us say, "Today has been a golden day." We have the beginning of a lyric, a fourfooted iambic line. Now particularize, and the poem grows. What was golden about this day? "A lark sent up a trill, and notes like golden music rolled back down the sky's blue hill." Now we have the color blue contrasting with the goldenness of sound and emphasizing it. What else? "Two finches shunted nuggets back and forth from throat to throat, and birch lace sifted sunlight fine to gild a warbler's coat." Now we have enriched the vocabulary of gold with nugget and gild, and the words shunted and sifted which are more effective than adjectives in describing what is happening. Wings and movement have entered the picture. Sunlight is there with its hint of goldenness. The warbler's coat is yellow and a memory is stirred of its capability of golden song. "My baby played with golden blocks, with gold dust in his hair, while I washed plates in gleaming suds, for gold was everywhere." Now we move inside and see the speaker washing dishes and looking out the window with her baby sitting in the YOUR POEM AND YOU cone of sunlight streaming through the panes, gilding his hair and the blocks. She is so happy that even the suds are gleaming. Then we conclude by tying back to the opening line which set the theme. '""Today has been a golden day. Did you not find it such? Was it the wind or just my heart that had the Midas touch?" REFERENCES Hamilton, Anne: Seven Principles of Poetry Hillyer, Robert: First Principles of Verse (Published by The Writer, Inc., 8 Arlington Street, Boston, Mass.) Holmes, John: Writing Poetry Wood, Clement: Unabridged Rhyming Dictionary (The World Publishing Company, 2231 West 10th Street, Cincinnati, Ohio) Rogets Thesaurus of the English Language (Garden City Publishing Company, Garden City, New York) R = Spring Lambs Lh adh o Vesta N. Fairbairn Peaceful, the deep-wooled sheep In lush, green grasses keep Their lively lambs, new-born, And huddled in the buckthorn The gray, half-buried rocks Are sleeping hillside flocks, While soft as wool, and white As fleece the blown clouds might Be spring lambs browsing high Blue pastures of the sky. 333 Jason," Salley spoke softly. Jason did not answer. He was reading the evening paper. "Jason, honey," she said. His foot twitched a bit. 'That was all the response she got. "Anybody home?" she asked, and then added, "obviously not." She put the magazine down that she had been reading and went over beside him. Ruffling his hair, she said, "Hi, Jason! Remember me? I'm your wife Salley." Jason stirred and made a gruff little sound. She knew she had almost got through to him. Sometimes he was the deafest and dumbest person on earth. She glanced at the paper he was reading. No wonder! He was intent on the sports section. She was no competition for the basketball scores. With resignation, she retrieved her magazine and curled up on the sofa. Ten minutes later he let his paper fall to the floor. "Did you say something, Salley?" he asked. Salley did not raise her eyes from the magazine. Silently she went on 334 reading. He stretched his long arms and legs luxuriously, and then extricated himself from his deep chair. "T declare I heard someone speak. Have you any idea who it was?" He stood looking down at her. She turned a page of her magazine and continued reading. He ran _ his fingers through her shiny curls, tumbling them. "Hi, Salley, remember me? I'm your husband Jason." She went on reading. He pushed back a curl and kissed her on the tip of one ear. "Oh, Jason," she said, "you're lmpossible. It was hours ago when | spoke to you. I have forgotten what I wanted to say." "But, honey," he protested, "T couldn't hear you. You see, I was reading." "Oh!" she said with exasperation. "Honestly! There isn't another man like you in all the world! I ask you a question one day, and you do not hear me until the next and then you answer me. By that time I've forgotten what I asked you." He grinned. "That, my dear, is one of the remarkable things about your husband. My mind is equipped with a delayed action device. Lots of trouble is averted that way." Now he was teasing her. This was probably the wrong time to approach him with the subject she had wanted to mention. He smiled at her. What a little pixie she was. A petite little pixie with a snip nose. He sat down beside her. "I'm sorry," he said. "Tell me please what it was you wanted." "T really did want to talk to you," she said. "We've been married for almost three months. Don't you think it's time that we sat down and had an — an interview?" "A what?" Jason's voice went up to a peak. "An interview. You know — like employers and employees do when they've been together for a certain period of time." He blinked and made as if to speak but uttered no sound. "There's nothing queer about that," she explained. "I read all about it right here in this magazine. 'How to Make Your Marriage Work,' by Dr. Snodgras." She was very matter of fact. "Isn't our marriage working?" he asked. "Of course it is, silly, but Dr. Snodgras says this is supposed to be our adjustment period. He says that both of us do lots of little things that irritate each other, and we should talk it out and then it won't irritate us anv more." "Oh, I see," he said indulgently. "Seems as if I read something like that in a book once." "You did?" Her enthusiasm rose. "Then you'll understand all about it. 'Tell me what you remember." "Let me see." He wrinkled his ADJUSTMENT brow. "I believe it said there are many adjustments to make in marriage — and — oh, yes. I remember now. It said the wives are the ones to do the adjusting. Wives are usualy younger than husbands, and sometimes smaller, and naturally more pliable. A husband can't change. He is big and burly and set up like hard clay by the time he gets married. I think that's what the book said." "You must have read the wrong book. I guess the interview idea is not so good after all." "Quite the contrary. I think it's a fine idea. When do we begin?" "Are you sure you're interested?" she asked. "Of course." "Well..." she said reluctantly. "T have made a few notes." "On how to conduct an _interview?" She blushed. "No. On things that I should point out to you." "IT see. You mean notes on the things I do that irritate you." He pretended to be wounded. "Honey," she said apologetically, "there's almost nothing wrong with you. Remember, we aren't discuss ing big things — like money. I won't even mention the time Jan asked me to go shopping with her and you gave me five dollars and told me not to go hog wild on it and Jan said, "hat's ridiculous. No one can go hog wild with only five dollars.' Dr. Snodgras says big things seldom undermine a marriage, because people always correct them. It's the little things that do it, like tapping a pencil against your teeth all the time when you're trying to think. Little things can be terribly distracting you know." "T see. And we must be broadminded and understanding and 335 MAY 1964 practical about the whole discussion. "That's exactly what Dr. Snodgras said. Jason, you're wonderful. This is going to be great. Here is a pad and pencil for you. As I go over the pointers I have here, things will come to your mind to jot down about me. Feel free to interrupt anytime. You may want to justify yourself you know." "I'm anxious for you to begin." "You promise me you won't be hurt?" she asked anxiously. "Not at all. I shall remind myself that it is all in the interest of family solidarity." He flashed her a smile. "You almost disarm me when you smile at me like that. I am trying to be very objective. Now, first on my list I have — honestly, Jason, I'm not so sure I like this idea." "It's great! I insist that you proceed. I can hardly wait my turn," he said heartily. "Really? Well then I shall begin. Let me see." She studied her notes. "First of all — your shoes. It always bothers me where you take them off at nights, because in the dark I stumble over them. And speaking of stumbling in the dark — I wouldn't have to do it if I could just wake you. Like the other night. 'There were some cats yowling by our window. I couldn't wake you, so I had to scare them away myself. Jason, do you think you could sleep just a little lighter?" "T shall try," he said obediently. "But, really, Salley, you should turn on your lamp if you're going to prowl in the night." "Tm afraid I might wake you if I turn on my light." "That's what I love about you, my dear.' He grinned. "You are so consistent." 336 "About your eating habits," she continued. "TI really don't mind if you want your toast so brown 1 almost have to burn it, or your egg so raw that I have to look the other way while you eat it, and that yoy sugar your tomatoes and salt your melons. I guess I can get used to that, but it did bother me when you said my angel cake was like trying to eat fog and you scrunched a piece of it into a little wad because you said a man needed something to sink his teeth in." Jason had been speedily jotting down notes. He looked up. "I apologized about your cake, dear. Yours is the lightest in the world. I shouldn't have teased you "? "T forgive you. But couldn't you try not to be so hungry when you come home and I don't have dinner teady? And couldn't you come home promptly on the days I do have it ready instead of keeping me waiting?" He was taking notes again. "You are writing an awfully lot. Can you listen and write too?" "T haven't missed a word. Finish your list. I'm getting anxious for my turn." Sue was losing interest in her own list, his looked so ominous. ~ But she must finish what she had started. "T have a note here to remind you not to squeeze the toothpaste tube in the middle, and for you to please not hang your soiled shirts back in your closet, and when you wipe dishes, would you please put the forks in with the forks and not with the spoons — sorry. I meant to cross that one out. It's nice of you to wipe the dishes. And couldn't you change your attitude about women drivers? Every time you see a car parked wrong you say some woman did it. Well, I watched the other day to see who drove off in 'the car that straddled two parking spaces in the market parking lot. It was a fat man." Jason had filled the second page on his pad. Salley stopped and looked at him. "I don't believe I had better finish my list now," she said, "it would be nice for you to have a turn." He sat thoughtfully studying his notes. "Will you please go ahead?" she said. She glanced at the magazine lying on the stand. In bold red letters on its shiny cover the title of the feature article by Dr. Snodgras glared at her. Actually, she had been riding on a pink cloud ever since she had married Jason. She had been wonderfully happy, until something she read in that article punctured a few holes in her cloud. Jason looked up from his list. ADJUSTMENT Now he was going to deliver the load. She felt miserable. She wished she had torn up her list. There really wasn't one item of importance upon it. The number one item on his list would be that she talked too much. He regarded her silently. "Go on, Jason, please," she said in a small voice. She arose. As she did so she brushed against the magazine and it fell to the floor. Jason came over to her and put a big firm hand on each of her shoulders. He regarded her tenderly. "IT have been writing a list of all of the things I adore about you," he said. "Honey, I wouldn't change a hair of your head. You are perfect just as you are." Frustrated and repentant, she ground her heel into the magazine on the floor. She buried her face against him to hide the hot tears. With a merry chuckle he kissed her. SED Evelyn Fjeldsted I miss my friendly neighbor— The little children, too, | miss her kindly interest And all the things we used to do. It is good to have a neighbor, Who. Calls in frequently, Who comes in time of 'trouble, And stands by willingly. Could | but choose my neighbors And keep them. Ever near,. | would send for you this evening, Because we miss you: here. 337 ;: "4 we -_ "epee a ated Nyse tege Tah ER, OE 22 oS 5: aca LS pe WED OS LS tS der Don Knight Pearle M. Olsen How loosely combed are tendrilled waves of wool Which hang ice-white in the blue of western sky. In quivering forms they float, then play and pull — And gently scatter as the creeping dye From eastern sun intensifies the full Warm tints of pink on spreading, climbing high Fleeced curls. Then suddenly the colorful Clear spectrum hues come rushing and defy The usual chroma, as the tumbling wool Becomes a flaming heaven color cry! 338 Do you have time on your hands? Are you feeling discouraged by the monotony of doing the same routine things every day? Are you a young homemaker with energy to spare? Have you been retired from your job or position, and do you feel that your life is ended, and any creative ability you ever had is dying within you? Have your children grown up and established homes of their own? If your answer is yes to any one of these questions, then you need a challenging, exciting hobby that will last a lifetime. May I suggest that the study of art appreciation and painting may be one answer to your problem. Now don't say no until you have thought about the possibilities. A Good Beginning Let's begin simply by seeing the beauty around us — perhaps as an artist would see it. Look at the changing patterns of the clouds, the soft tints or flaming glow of a sunset on them; feel the softening rays of the moon; behold the majesty of snowcovered mountains; see the long shadows and hear the whispering leaves in the depths of the woods; become aware of the motion of a field of golden grain as the wind sweeps over it in waves. As a Hobby Myrtle E. Henderson, M. A. Former Head, Speech Department, Dixie College If we see things in this way, we are using as many of our five senses as possible, and, like the artist, we will see more beauty than we had dreamed there was around us. The Art of Appreciation Another helpful and enlightening step in our adventure into art is to learn to understand and appreciate paintings. Find out what has gone into them, what are their values, and what makes them good or poor. Let's see what an artist has said about pictures. One critic suggests that pictures make their appeal to individuals through their beauty of line, the quality of their color, or through the interest in their patterns. We can learn to appreciate line, color, and pattern for their own sake, and then a picture does not need to tell a story. Art appeals to the sight as well as to the imagination. Paintings may be an interpretation rather than a photographic representation of the subject. Leave the exact details to the camera. Design in Paintings My art teacher said often that pictures should not be "too busy," meaning there should not be too many points of interest or 339 MAY 1964 too many objects. Look for simplicity of design. There should be a focal point — a way to get "into" a picture. For example, in a landscape, let the eye follow down a road, or a stream, or the sun path on a lake, or, maybe, down a street or a path in the woods. Beautiful shape and color can claim artistic value, but they should not be spoiled by being too ornate. Overdecoration in anything reflects lack of taste and discrimination — in a home as well as in pictures. Rhythm and Movement In evaluating a painting, an artist will be aware of the qualities of rhythm and movement in the picture and will feel the texture of different objects. Now perhaps you are thinking, 'Texture and movement, and color and shadow I can understand, but what about rhythm? Artists tell us that rhythm is the quality of flowing lines, of lovely curves and shapes that answer and complement each other. The changing shape of clouds makes a kind of rhythm, flowers have different rhythms, as the daisy has a circular rhythm, the blades of grass growing together have an upreaching rhythm. So, in drawing flowers, the leaves and main line of growth must repeat each other in pattern, and the pattern should be accentuated in the drawing. Arrangement of Objects When an artist looks at a painting or a landscape to paint, he is attracted not only by objects, but by the arrangement of what he sees. Objects are grouped together to form a particular landscape, as trees, fields, 340 and rocks. He sees also an arrangement of qualities in color and line. He sees objects in relation to their background and surroundings. He sees the green of the trees in relation to the green or blue or purple of the distant hills. He sees the vertical lines of the trunks of the trees in relation to the horizontal lines of the lake shore or the horizon. All this beauty reaches out to him, and he feels it and wants to express it on his canvas. Painting Is a Natural Impulse Perhaps, if we learn to see things as the artist sees them, and to understand art, we, too, may have the urge to paint what we see. Do I hear you say, 'Oh, I could never paint a picture!' How do you know? Have you ever tried? One of the greatest teachers of drawing in America, said that the impulse to draw is as natural as the impulse to talk. We learn to talk by simple words and sounds at first, and by much repetition, and we can learn to draw and paint in the same way. True, few of us may become great artists, but just beginning to paint can be a rewarding experience, and a world of pleasure can be derived from it. Don't worry if, for the first few months, your drawing doesn't resemble anything called art. It has been said that the sooner you make your first five thousand mistakes, the sooner you can correct them. I know a woman who did not even try to paint until she was forty years of age. Her mother's poor health made it necessary for her to give up her office work and stay home to take care of her. She needed something to take up her spare time. At the suggestion of her neighbor, who was a good amateur artist, she tried painting. She had no train- 1 after five beautiful colored snapshots of scenes they have photographed on their vacations, or pictures from other sources, and she reproduces them in oils. She takes orders for paintings in certain shades and colors to blend into the colors of the room for which they are intended. One of the greatest joys this woman has, since her mother has passed away, is to take her paints and go out into the hills and paint from nature. You say you are too old to learn to paint? Haven't you heard of Grandma Moses, who began to paint when she was nearly eighty? Grandma Moses started working pictures in worsted. After she was afflicted with arthritis in her hands, it was difficult for her to hold the needle. Her sister suggested that she try painting, since it might be easier to hold the brushes. So she began to paint. ART AS A HOBBY Then she went over the board with linseed oil, and then with three coats of flat paint. She used masonite because it would last longer than canvas. Materials How to get materials may be a problem to you. Let me suggest that there are many excellent water color sets that are inexpensive. A box of eight colors and one brush can be purchased for one dollar, or 4 box of sixteen colors and one brush, for two dollars. The same colors come in tubes in boxes containing | different numbers of tubes and two brushes. These pensive. Drawing pads will need to be purchased with the paints. Oil paints can be purchased in or in complete kits. With the oil painting one cups, spatula, pallette, and, at least three different sizes of brushes. The canvas may be obtained in a roll or on boards. We may never paint masterpieces, but we can enter the marvelous creative world of form and rhythm, pattern, and texture and color. We can reach out and select and use and retain, against time, the evanescent beauty im the landscape of our days. We can enlarge our vision and our appreciation of the magnificent universe. Today is here. It is new, it is Now. Forget yesterday, which is gone. Use Today as best you can. You are sure of it, and nothing more. Begin here and now. —Zara Sabin 341 see. Ae >.:: 4 4 > se ee en, 5 + i Ser 2 Be * as y wi 2: awl al as wail a: z =. Ae j. Ly 4 ke and Beanie Shirley Thulin Miarcaret looked out at the day. It-was a good day, the sun was noon high and the blue sky nestled a few puffy clouds. It was as good a time as any to tell Gramps about the place they had found for him. When she had tried to tell him last week it was raining. The night was fretful and she hadn't been able to say the words. Dear Gramps, she _ thought. He's so special. And as always when she thought of her grandfather, he became more than a beloved relative, he somehow was tangled with other memories of the past. Things like corn-cob dolls that he so often carved for her, and long slow walks while he turned the irrigation water into their ditch, and stories... The wonderful stories. But she had 342 finally decided Jim was right. Gramps was getting to be a handful. It wasn't so bad when Grandmother was still with them. She could manage him, but, lately, the had become childish, and so much work and worry. And now with the new baby on the way Margaret pulled the last dish from the pan of hot rinse water and put it in the drainer. Then she wiped her hands on her apron and reached behind to untie the bow. As she went out the front door to find Gramps, she heard Michael giggle. Michael will miss him so, she thought, I wish Jim hadn't "Hi, you two, what's going on?" "Hi, Mommy, come play froggy with us. Gramps plays froggy funny." Margaret quickly looked about her. The houses on the street were close together, and neighbors were not always understanding. She started to scold, the words were high in her throat, but she knew if she began with a reprimand, she wouldn't be able to tell him. "Michael." she said, "Go in and get ready for your nap. I'll be in in a minute." "T don't want a nap, Mom. We aren't through playing." "You look a little pale, dear. Do you feel all right?" "Feel fine, Mom." "You go take your nap, Beanie. Your mother wants to talk to me. We'll play after," Gramps said. "Oh, Gramps."' Margaret waited until Michael was gone and then the words began to tumble out, all in the wrong direction. ""We love you, we really do, but " "I know, honey, I know." "No, you don't I mean, you really don't understand." "T know an old fellow like me.' His voice trailed off, and his eyes squinted as he looked towards the mountains. "We all got to be put out to pasture some time or other." "It isn't like that." but Margaret couldn't tell him what it was. She couldn't even tell herself. She knew it was a combination of the way he played so childishly with Michael, the way he refused to eat what she fixed, spurning other nourishing food for bread and milk, and he was such a worry. Always going for walks and coming home when he felt like it.. And if he only wouldn't call Mike Beanie. GRAMPS AND BEANIE You found a place?" Gramps didn't look at her. "Yes, we found a place. It's.. She was going to tell him it was a nice place. And it really was, but she knew what many elderly persons thought of rest homes. "Is it very far away?" Gramps looked at her then, and, suddenly, he seemed awfully tired. His eyes were searching hers. "No. Not really very far "When?" Just one word, but it had been spoken as though it took all the strength he had left. "Not for awhile," and as she told him this, she was ashamed of her lack of courage. Why hadn't she told him his room would be ready Monday? Monday just four days away. "Does Beanie know?"' "No."' "Then let me tell him," and Gramps turned slowly and went down the walk. Margaret didn't call after him to remind him to be back soon... She was too much aware of the sudden slump of his shoulders. Besides, she knew it wouldn't do any good, it never had. 99 THat night when Jim came home it was a relief to be able to tell him that she had talked to Gramps. But she didn't mention that she hadn't told him what day. "How did he take it?" "Well, he was quiet. He seemed to guess what. I was going to say before I began." "He's probably heard us talking. "He'll miss Mike."' '"'They're good to the old people in those places."' 343 MAY 1964 "But Gramps isn't just old people. He he's Gramps. He's more of a family man. Gram hasn't been gone long. Most of those old men haven't had anyone for a long time before they "Now, honey, "you said you wouldn't fret anymore." Jim took her in his arms and put his cheek on hers. "'He'll be happy, in fact, he'll be happier, he won't have you to nag him." and Jim laughed, but Margaret didn't. She could still see the longing and the searching in the old man's eyes. "Besides," Jim was pacing the kitchen, ''the doctor told you to take it a bit easy this time." "IT know we've been over all thise " When the supper table was set Margaret was suddenly aware that Michael was still asleep. "That's funny," she told Jim. "He doesn't usually sleep this long." "Worn out, I guess. Is Gramps back yet?" Margaret sighed. '"'No, and I don't suppose he will be for awhile. You sit down, I'll go wake Mike. What time does your train leave?" "Hight-twenty. Will you bring me my shoe horn? I think it's on Mike's dresser. I don't want to forget it again. Those hotels just don't furnish shoe horns." Margaret laughed: It was no secret that her husband wasn't overly fond of hotels. He didn't like to leave his home, not even when it meant extra money. For a moment Margaret stood looking at Michael, then she sat on the edge of his bed and put her hand on his forehead. ''Mike. 344 Honey. Wake up, it's suppertime." The child stirred and: said, "All right," but he didn't open ~his eyes. Margaret> frowned and felt his head again. It was hot. And dry. "Jim, bring me the thermometer. I think Mike has a fever." Mike did have a fever, but it was slight. "Do you think I should stay home?" Jim asked. "Oh, I don't think so. If it weren't so important for you to be-there, I'd say yes, but. I think he'll -be all right." "IT could stay tonight and fly out in the morning." "Too expensive. I think it's just his tonsils again. I'll take him to the doctor in the morn- 99 ing. At train time Gramps wasn't back. It was the first time she hadn't taken Jim to the station, but she couldn't take Mike and she couldn't leave him alone. Somehow, saying goodbye to Jim on the front step left her in a turmoil. As the cab pulled away from the curb she thought she saw Grarnps coming up the street, but before the figure got to their corner, it crossed over, so she went inside. The house was so silent Margaret felt a sudden weight about her. She didn't like the quiet. Michael cried once and she went in to him, but he was asleep when she got there. She felt his head again, and he was hotter. The aspirin had not checked his fever. "Oh, if only Gramps were here."" Margaret felt surprised to be wishing for him. She went to get the thermometer and as she did, she remembered when Gramps had broken their former thermometer. He's clumsy, she thought, almost like a child. The little silver thread had pushed its way toward the 103° mark. It frightened Margaret, for though Mike had had fevers before, he had never had one this high. She went to the phone and dialed Doctor Jeff's number. It seemed a long time before the answering service told her that the doctor was out of town. "Would you like me to call someone else?"' Margaret didn't know any other doctor. '""No. No, I think it will be all right." Margaret was suddenly aware that the front door had opened and closed. "Gramps. Is that you?" "Yes." "Would you come here, please? Mike's sick and I'm shaky." "Sick? What's wrong?" "Oh, I think it's his tonsils again, but his fever's high."' "Well, call the doctor." "For goodness sakes, I did." Margaret was aware that the tone of her words was sharp. They were often lately. Gramps could be so exasperating sometimes. "Will you get me some water?" "He seemed all right this morning. Where's Jim?" "Gone to Denver. You knew 9 "Oh, yes. I forgot. Too bad you didn't know Beanie was sick before he went." "We did know." "You knew? How come he went?" GRAMPS AND BEANIE "Because he had to. Here, will you please help me lift Mike up?" "Mike son. Do you want a drink of water?" "T never left town when one of my children was sick." "Oh, Gramps. Times are different now. He can get back in a couple of hours if I need him. Mike, honey, here's a drink of water." "Gramps, hold me up." Mike's voice was heavy. "Do you hurt any place, dear?" Margaret asked him. "My _ throat." "See? His tonsils." Margaret sounded almost triumphant in her diagnosis. "I fear he's got the virus throat. The boy down the street had it. It's real bad. Doc worked with him for days." "Tt's only-his tonsils. Why don't 'you go. In and get ready? Your dinner is in the oven." "T'll just have a bowl of bread and milk in a minute." MiarcarET went to her room when Mike had settled again. She had to write Bob and Helen, who, she knew, would be upset with her for putting Gramps in a home. But it was easy for them to talk. They had large families and had never had room for him for more than a week at a time. They didn't know. How childish he had become and seemed to be oblivious to the amount of care he needed. Margaret had put off writing them as long as_ she dared, but she must get at it tonight. She had planned very carefully the wording of the letter. She would tell them that for his own safety he should be where he had constant watchcare. He 345 MAY 1964 also should have a better diet, and he refused to eat for her. She would have to be sure to tell them how he went for long walks and worried her so. And, oh, yes, how lonesome he seemed to be. She felt sure they would want him to be where there were friends his own age. Margaret had just finished Helen's letter when she heard a strange muffled sound coming from Mike's room. She was surprised to see Gramp still there, sitting on a chair in the dimness. "Was Mike crying?" "No." -"T thought I heard something." '"When's the doctor going to get here? His head's awful hot." "Doctor Jeff's out of town "Out of town? But you said you'd called a doctor." "YT did, but Do you think I'd better call someone else?" "He's sick, Marg. It's not his tonsils." Gramps had an air of authority about him now, as he had when he was the head of a household. "You get a doctor right away. I've sat with children a lot, and I know when they're sick." Miarcaret looked at the old man, and there was no mistake about the trace of wetness on _ his wrinkled cheek.: She sat on the edge of the bed near him and the tightness in her throat was like a wet sponge that kept swelling. "Marg... I'm sorry I can't remember not to call him Beanie. He looks so much like your father."' "Oh, Gramps." "And just now Mike looks so little and sick, just like my 346 children when they had _ the measles. We nearly lest your Dad that time. Oh, the nights Mother and I sat up with those youngsters " Margaret looked-at the old man. It was as though she were seeing him for the first time. He had a fine profile, and though his skin had been browned from the sun and his brow was wrinkled, there was a kindness to his looks. A kindness and devotion that Margaret well remembered from her early childhood. She had heard time and again her father tell how his parents had _ uncomplainingly cared for the four of them. Gram and Gramps had nursed them through sicknesses, worried about them night after night when they stayed out late. She gave Gramps a big hug. "Gramps. I will call a doctor now. And also the home." "The home?" "Yes. To tell them they are losing their star boarder." "Now, Marg, you and Jim don't want an old nuisance." "Oh, yes we do you're the most wonderful old nuisance I know. Jim never would have thought of taking you away if it hadn't been for my complaining." "But you've had good reason to complain." "Now, Gramps, it's all settled." "Gramps." Mike opened his eyes. "Don't go away." "See, he needs you and so will the new baby. Nobody can play froggy like you." Marg left the room then. She made the phone calls, tore up her letter, then she went into the kitchen to fix two big bowls of bread and milk. Mrs. Carleen Maley Hutchins, fifty-two, a motherly housewife from Montclair, New Jersey, is also an accoustical scientist who is astonishing the musical world with the stringed instruments she designs, builds, and_ tests electronically in her own home. Strings have remained unchanged for practically two hundred years, but for modern musical compositions, their tonal range is inadequate. She has overcome this difficulty in the family of instruments she has_ created, ranging from a huge bass to a smaller than normal violin. Top musicians eagerly seek to purchase her handiwork. Mirs. Jayne Baker Spain, president and owner of the AlveyFerguson Company, in Cincinnati, Ohio, manufacturers. Of conveying equipment for industry, employs blind workers to assemble conveyers. In Salonica, Greece, she was asked to prepare an exhibit for the annual International Trade Fair there. This she did, but since all workers were expected to be Greek, she taught six Greek boys and girls who were blind how to assemble a wheel conveyer moving materials around factories and warehouses. They fitted together 451 small parts, threading fifty axles through one hundred and twenty skate wheels, applying dozens of bolts and tightening them to an exact degree of tension. Visitors to the fair found this sight incredible. The human §achievement was far greater than the industrial. Mirs. Mary Loveless of Cornell University Medical College, New York, has been working for seventeen years on immunizing patients allergic to the stings of various kinds of bees. She captures bees, then, with a delicate operation, removes the venom sac for the innoculating agent. Having done this more than thirty thousand times, she can now do a bee a minute. Bee stings are very harmful to many people, in certain instances even causing death. Tue third annual Shakespearean Festivel on the College of Southern Utah campus (Cedar City, Utah) which will be presented July 9 through 25, will include "Twelfth Night," 'Macbeth," and "Midsummer Night's Dream," in rotation. Last year Festival goers were counted from thirty-eight States and a dozen foreign countries. Mrs. Lee Thompson assists in the costume department, and Kahiki Long, a student from California, will handle lighting, as she has since the inception of the Festival in 1962. 347 EDITORIAL Hele S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer The Lighted Window The beloved words and symbols which apply to mothers and characterize their devotion are long remembered, and their comfort and inspiration have become an aura of light that leans across the years. They are like the guidance and the glory of a lighted window. A woman now in her busy and responsible middle years remembers that her mother was orderly, and by that rule of heaven, she arranged her own life to the best of her ability and gave her children the feeling that order prevailed where willing hands and noble spirits controlled the enlarging world around them. Before this mother opened her door and entered her morning kitchen, she dressed her hair beautifully, piled it high in a golden crown. She tied a clean starched apron around her waist, wore, also, a smile of courage as personal adornment. Then, whatever trials the day might bring could be met with a greater degree of order and serenity, because the beginning was good. In this family a sense of order and direction pervaded all of the homes of that heritage. A young mother, faced with a small income and many expenses, in her home on a small acreage at the edge of a city, patterned after the mother strength consistent in her family. Beginning with the pioneer grandmother, they were provident women. The grandmother cared for long rows of green garden vegetables, she carried baskets of yellow peaches from her orchard; she raised bees and separated the golden honey and the wax and sold the products in the town markets. She was like the Biblical woman who was praised within the gates, for her family, down through the generations, were provident mothers who gave an abiding security to their loved ones. A Relief Society work meeting counselor remembers her dear mother as a needle and thread woman, her fingers moving quickly in and out of a patchwork quilt, or deftly stitching lace to white organ- 348 dy pinafores to adorn her daughters — or the mother's hands guiding a piece of yellow flowered print under the needle of a sewing machine. This long-remembered mother was weaving beauty with her fingers and stitching the blessed feeling of love and security into the spiritual apparel of her children. Each time a stake chorister directs the Singing Mothers, in the background of her attitude and her love for music, is the memory of her mother, and the tall and elegant organ that graced the family parlor. On winter evenings and in the summer twilight the mother played hymns and sang the lyrics... "where the pure breezes blow and the clear streamlets flow..."; ''fit home for the people of God _.": "behold 'tis eventide....'" And when that mother died the ornate minarets of the organ were removed, and the organ was taken and carefully set up in the Relief Society room in that small mountainrimmed town. All music is a heritage to a chorister daughter in another place and in another land — and the memory of mother is associated with the word music, and is a singing forever Five daughters, who have now become mothers and grandmothers and preside in homes where the motif is light, remember a lighted window in an adobe ranch house in the lonely hills. The light in the window was a kerosene lamp, with a trimmed wick and a polished chimney. It was a symbol that a mother — a true homemaker — lived and reflected an abundance of light that drew her family at eventide to their home, where all the ways and all the words were shining and uplifting. And now that those daughters have gone their separate ways, they are bound together and are distinguished and marked as a family by the influence of a mother who stood at a lighted window. Fach woman in this time of change and uncertainty, may be guided by the enduring heritage of mothering, and each may stand at a lighted window. —V. P. C. 349 What Is a Mother? Margaret Richards Wr5uat is she mother? Girl, woman, wife, and a mother? Motherhood — the culmination of all the years of growing up! The fulfillment of her dreams and hopes and plans! Just what is she this mother? Well, it's certain that according to today's wage scale she is worth her weight in gold. Housekeeper, cleaning woman, laundress, seamstress, cook, nutrition expert, chauffeur, nurse, wise shopper, bargain hunter, business manager, and executive vice-president of one of the busiest and most demanding institutions in her country — the home! Is this all she does? Oh, no! This is merely the busy-work that occupies her hands while her mind and heart and soul are intent upon a higher calling. Motherhood — a sharing in creation! A sharing in nurturing — a sharing in exaltation, as she sows the seeds in her children's souls that will, in large measure, determine their harvest in adulthood — and in eternity! Teacher, counselor, advisor, example — is there any greater influence for good or evil in human life? Oh, Mother, what a grave responsibility is yours, and what infinite opportunity! Security, affection, a deep and unselfish love — these are your first special gifts to your little one that no one else can give quite so well as you. And what about the unnumbered things you teach that no one else can teach quite so well as you? It is from you a child learns love — love of God, love of the gospel, love of family and friends. It is at your knee a child learns prayer. It is your example that teaches thoughtfulness, courtesy, honesty, respect for authority, obedience to law and to the laws of God. Yes, Mother, God himself has given you a calling, in importance second to none. May he, likewise, bless you with the strength and courage, with the wisdom and love, to enable you to fill in fullest measure your sacred calling here and now, and to secure your place as a priestess queen beside your husband for eternity. 351 Hazel Sowards Cannon Member, General Board of Relief Society MOTHER'S life epitomized the spirit of the pioneer, although for many years that last frontier had been settled. There had still been fascinating new trails to blaze with each of her children, and life in the little valley, nestling in its circle of picturesque hills, had been a constant challenge. Her heart yearned for the beautiful, the genteel, and that which was right and good. Sharing her substance was part of living. She traveled many miles to and from the peaceful valley in its circle of lovely hills to bring enjoyment to her family and friends. Many came to her door. Friend and stranger alike surrounded her table, partook of its goodness, and departed warmed and heartened. She was fulfillment of the promise ". And thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water whose waters fail not" (Isaiah 58:11). She pointed with pride to God's handiwork. Rocks, artistic and delicately colored, interestingly grotesque and hued with the rainbow, satiny smooth or rough textured—she loved them all. The silver-green sagebrush of the desert, the sweet-scented pines of the mountains, the urn-shaped buds of her favorite roses were her delight. She subdued the red clay and reveled in her springtime flowers as they came forth in defiance of the icy fingers of winter. "Anything worth doing at all is worth doing well," she said, and somehow found through infinite patience and an innate sensitivity, the right way to perform each homey task. Her jars of home-canned fruit, iridescent jewels imprisoned in glass, were a work of art; her freshly laundered clothes rivaled the ermine snows in whiteness; and bright palettes of artistically arranged raw vegetables were found on her table long before it was fashionable. It did not take "things" to make her happy. She loved quality but hated ostentation and pretense. Her joys were the simple things—her family secure and snug in a warm house during the storm, a night's repose in an immaculately clean and comfortable bed, her carefully nurtured shade trees lacing a sapphire sky, the full wheaty flavor of homemade bread, the smile on the tear-stained face of a grandchild. Mother was a valiant pioneer. Her life exemplified that each age needs women who explore and perfect when it is easier merely to accept; who endure with faith and tenacity when to yield is a worldly pattern; who discover happiness in toil when perishable rewards beckon unceasingly; who chart the course for others to follow. 352 Sara O. Moss Bic Jim looked at his sleeping wife, with little Jim's chubby hand on her cheek. Lucky kid, little Jim, to have a mother like Millie and a grandmother like Mom. Big Jim sat down in the chintz-covered chair and stretched his long legs. He gave a deep sigh, relaxing with half-closed eyes. Mother's Day! Man, for the packages! It was worse than Christmas at the post office where Big Jim worked. There had been thousands of pieces of mail — packages, cards, and many orders. Yes, it had been worse than Christmas. He dozed a little, but now and then he glanced at the package which lay on the dresser, with its gay wrappings. It was Mom's package. Millie had seen to that. Tomorrow they would take it over to Mom, the three of them. It seemed silly, so much fuss over Mother's Day. Still it was a good way to let Mom know how you felt, because a fellow just couldn't say, in so many words, how it was between him and his mother. You couldn't recount how many times Mom had somehow seen you through. Those times when you had needed her most. Big Jim recalled that sick spell, pneumonia, and he could still feel Mom's cool hand on his brow. And that day she had served punch and cookies to the fellows as they practiced football in the backyard. That made Mom a regular with the team, and Big Jim had been so proud of her. When he was ten, she had sold an heirloom to buy him a bicycle. At seventeen he had a handsome pair of new shoes to wear to a school dance, but it was years later that Jim learned Mom had used a prized little sum she was saving for a new carpet. Big Jim couldn't remember when Mom hadn't stood out on the fringe of things to give a helping hand. Those long years without Dad, Mom somehow made up for them. She laughed for Jim's sake, when he knew she was crying within her breast. And then Millie had come into their lives. Sweet, beautiful Millie. Mother of Little Jim. Mom loved them both. She reached out her heart and her hands and her love now was wrapped around all three of them. Big Jim rose, and covered Millie's shoulder with the spread as the breeze blew the curtain. Then he went out the door and started the car in the driveway. As he drove slowly down the street, he knew he couldn't enumerate all the things that Mom had done for him and Millie and Little Jim, but he would walk into her house, stretch out in the big leather. Chair that had been Dad's. Then he would take the plate with the new-baked brown bread and the glass of milk that Mom would offer him. After that he would lean back with a smile and say, "Thanks Mom. Thanks for everything." 353 Winona F. Thomas l \ucur state that I am not an avid opera fan. In fact, most operas which rate the word grand in front of their titles, leave me cold. I admit they are way above me. 'The music may have all the skillful harmonies, and the singers have talent and all the necessary techniques, but operas must be melodious or I don't like them. Verdi's La Traviata is a grand opera with an interesting plot and pleasing melodies. The first time I heard a recording of it, I sat so charmed that I hardly moved a muscle until it was finished. It still has that effect on me. Every time I hear it I am completely enthralled. Last summer when we were in Chicago, some nice people took us to Kungsholm's Miniature Grand Opera Theatre, where we saw La Traviata performed by _ thirteen-inchhigh puppets while we listened to the libretto from recordings made in the Metropolitan Opera House. It was an experience I shall never forget. Last week I heard the announcement that the opera would be broadcast on the radio from the stage just as it was presented in the Metropolitan Opera House. I was glad that I had been slightly ill all week. It would give me an excuse to stay home, and here on the farm I could attend a production of La Traviata. I did the housework early and changed into a dress suitable to 354 listen to grand music. I had taken the curlers from my hair and was applying some make-up when the announcer, who introduces' the opera and briefs the listeners on the cast and continuity, came on the radio. As he told who the principals were, and who would sing Alfredo's and Violetta's parts, he was almost drowned out by the sound of a heavy truck coming into our driveway. As the overture started, footsteps clomped up across the porch, and a door was opened and slammed shut. "Come and take me to the field," a masculine voice comimanded. "The tractor's not working, and I am getting behind in my spring work. I just ordered a new one. The dealer is bringing it down. He may be at the field already. Please hurry!" I didn't turn off the radio. I didn't want to miss one single note as I went out, and I wanted to hear what was being played as I came back into the house. As there was no radio in the truck, I listened to the chug and rumble of the motor instead of music. We left the highway and turned down the lane that led to the field. There wasn't anyone there. "Do I have to wait?" I asked. "Yes, you better. Maybe he's had trouble. I might have to ride back to the house with you." "There he comes now," I said, Teached the field, hus 5 band was turning the tractor around the hurry? Maybe he'll in the farther €nd of the stubb] need Something after he gets here. Patch. He ame slowly Oward me on't waste 84S. Turn off the enHe Teached the end of the furrow gine," he was pl wing and Stopped to I turned the truck 4found and Scrape the mud from the lowshare leaded it toward the Eate before After Surveying the result, he took I turned Off the key, J WaS teady lammer and Pounded jt. Of 1 quick getaway "Hurry," | Said. "I leg, lunch The big truck turned in at the Cooking," gate, and th liver got Out and Slowly let down d mus MOved to C Teplaced with Others he would It would Start "Mg down from the toolshed y "Everythin seems to be all Y the house. When we Teached right," husband Said, "come and the house, We ate lunch while listen set me about One thirty, ang Pi] mg to very | come up for lunch and bring back | 4 Can of gas." > the announ Cer Came on. Sorbers Leaving the "We are about to Car the third Tuck in the drivewa Tan into act, the beautify) ballroom scene." he house Beautify] MUSIC was Cautifully sq Music began I fading on the ether. New the climax Was 4PProaching "During he Intermission w will So were husband's Orders, lear the operg News. Of the air," the "Come and drive the truck to the @mnouncer said. Field. [ 'Put in the grain to feed There Was no music hile | Tethe beef cattle, then I won't have Pared lunch Just ISCUSsiOnN of tO go aroy d by the Corral after | things Which didn't Interest me &ct through lowing ton; ht." 'We are NOW ready for the sec € was | ond act in hich Giorgi | AITives g - In the pocket and J ~ Was the one wh had to Teturn ¢ nd went on with get them What would } heard the second I finally Teached home and sank a Into a chair in time to hear Violetta I noticed the clock I should cough delicately and sing €xquisiteAve been in th field ten Minutes ly as she died in Alfredo's arm 180. As the truck nO radio, "And the curtain falls on Verdi' I drove jt Out of the way and got Masterpiece," he announcer saiq the tourin "ar out of the garage. "The Principals wil] now take their turned on the radio a d tuned jn Curtain cal]s " C Station. Ajj I got were Moans and buzzes. Ask Mrs. Braithwaite _ Mis. Braithwaite is the most fabulous woman I've heard of in ages. She has seven children and never does a bit of work herself. She has her family so well-trained that all she has to do is organize and supervise. She spoke at a neighborhood meeting a few days ago and told us just how to do it.. I have only four children: Charles eight, Steven six, Daniel four, and Lucy two, but I'm just positive that I can get the same results. Oh, it's not that I mind work but, as Mrs. Braithwaite says, "No child should learn to be a drone. Each individual must learn that work is important. The work habit must be established early." T'wo days ago I started the "everybody works" routine. I carefully decided on all the jobs that needed to be done and wrote them on slips of paper. This makes work more like a game, Mrs. Braithwaite says. Fach child then drew to see which chore he was to do. They were so enthusiastic that I congratulated myself on my efficiency. Charles started to vacuum with a vigor that could only mean scars on the furniture but, after all, he had to learn. Steven started to dust the furniture with a pushbutton type of polish, and Daniel washed the windows, also with a can of window spray. Lucy's job was to pick up off the floor. She really was too young to try anything else. 356 ASK MRS. BRAITHWAITE I settled down to a pile of correspondence. Everything was delightful for ten minutes. Charles started to suck up his sister with the vacuum, and I had to oversee his project. While I was pulling Lucy's dress out of the vacuum hose, Steven and Daniel had a spray can fight and the furniture polish won. The front room lost. I separated them and put a child in each room. After an hour, I decided that I had worked my children hard enough and sent them outside to play. 'This was wise, because the vacuum was clogged with a stocking and other sundries. Both spray cans were empty, although they had started out full. I found my car keys, a glass, two odd shoes, the turtle, a small doll, and a set of blocks in the dirty clothes hamper. Lucy had caught onto the idea of picking up, but unfortunately hadn't chosen the proper places for the objects. I was not discouraged. After all, practice makes perfect, as Mrs. Braithwaite always says. The next day, I decided that the children must help around the house again. Charles' job was to fix supper; Steven was to clean the bathroom; Danny could make the beds; and, again, Lucy could pick up. Tuts time I didn't try to do anything else. I decided that all I would do was to supervise. Charles was busy fixing a jellied salad, so I checked on Steven. Cleanser was flying fast through the air and I rescued it about five seconds too late. A giant-size can was used on one bathtub and a sink. I wondered how Mrs. Braithwaite could afford to let her children help. The price of cleaning agents was mounting. I was sure the bathroom would be clean, so I checked on the bed-making project. Lumps that hadn't been in the beds before now appeared. I found several large trucks stashed underneath the covers. "The trucks are tired," Danny explained. By the time I had rescued the toys and helped my four-year-old make the beds, Steven had finished cleaning the bathroom. There was no dirt to be seen anywhere, because it was covered up with gobs of green cleanser. I finished scraping the cleanser off the bathtub and went to check on Charles with dinner. He had decided (and started) on the full menu for dinner. It consisted of six packages of jello mixed with three quarts of fruit cocktail; four cans of frozen juice (orange, grape, pineapple, and limeade mixed together), peanut butter sandwiches, and pancakes. I fished three cans of tuna fish out of the dirty clothes hamper and decided that perhaps I had missed part of Mrs. Braithwaite's speech. My problem wasn't that my children didn't want to work. It was just that they helped too hard. They threw themselves into the task too thoroughly. "Work is fun," Charles announced. "What can we do now?" I decided that perhaps Mrs. Braithwaite could help me. I was sure she must have run into the same problem herself. I phoned her immediately. "May I speak with Mrs. Braithwaite?" "Mrs. Braithwaite isn't here," a voice informed me. "Is this her daughter?" "No, the children aren't home. I'm just the cleaning woman." 357 Cc = prandma in} 't y Va) "Violet Nimmo >, inf Ry: A letter from Grandma was a great inspiration in our home. I was one of five children who had no Grandpas and only one Grandma. She was very special to us. We looked forward to receiving her letters with great anticipation. Each word was written with charity and love. Mother always placed the letter upon the bookcase to be read after dinner while the whole family was seated around our old-fashioned round table. We were so excited we could hardly wait until dinner was over. Grace was said hurriedly, and I don't think any of us ate our usual portions of food. I can visualize five exuberant children all chattering at once, until mother started to open the envelope; then we all quieted down until you could hear the clock tick. We sat in silence, each child waiting to hear the personal message the letter held for him or her. Grandma always remembered to mention things which were important to us. My heart always beat a little faster when Grandma asked, "How is my little Violet? Is she still working on the 'Poet and Peasant' overtures I'll be looking forward to hearing her play the piano when you come to visit next summer." Or perhaps she would say, "I am so pleased to hear that Violet is such a good little mother's helper." In one letter she said, "I suppose you children are all busy helping your mother and father pick strawberries." The next day we picked strawberries all day without any complaints or grumbles. We strove to live up to Grandma's praise and belief in us. About the time our inspired ambition began to diminish, there would be another letter from Grandma, and we would be back on our best behavior for another while. Through Grandma's letters we were aware of every lovely thing which God created for us to enjoy. 'The first robin in spring, the violets and pussy willows along the river bank; orioles, marigolds, and fleecy white clouds in summer; wild geese; pumpkins, corn shocks, and colorful maple trees in autumn, snowbirds, icicles and Christmas trees in winter. We had pointed out to us and appreciated and enjoyed the things in life that are free. Sometimes Grandma would tell us about something cute OF mischievous that "Rembrandt" her cat had done, or she would tell us how fat the "precocious pig" was growing. 'The 'precocious pig" was the piggy bank in which she saved pennies to spend on us when we went to visit her. She always enclosed a little prayer at the close of each letter. Crandma is in heaven now. I still say the prayers she taught us. 1 have taught them to my children, along with many of her beautiful thoughts. I cherish the memories of Grandma's letters and reflect their charitable contents with great nostalgia. Please, may I contribute as much Christian spirit and love for wholesome, unselfish living as did our dear Grandma. 358 — Dearest Mom and Dad: Something happened last night that made me feel I cannot put off any longer this thought that I have carried in my mind for so long. The phone rang. Just such a simple thing as that. But it was in the dark hours of the morning. As soon as the first loud ring exploded the silence of our sleeping household, my heart began pounding, and my only thought was, "Something has happened to one of the folks at home." I picked up the receiver and said, "Hello." A man's voice boomed at me. "Is this Mr. Schriber?" No."' "Oh, I'm very sorry I disturbed you. I've called the wrong number." "That's all right," I replied, my relief so great I could feel myself growing weak. I returned to bed, but was so wide awake I knew sleep would be a long time returning, and I found my thoughts directed more strongly than usual toward all of you so many miles away. While I was growing up the thought never occurred to me that when I married I would move far from all of you to start a happy life and family with my husband. So when there were suddenly no more daily chats and visits, laughter, and secrets, I replaced the empty spot with remembering — remembering all the things, big and little, good and bad, that were my life before we moved away. And through all these years one thing stands out above all the rest — it is strange that it does not gTOw dim with time but becomes brighter and stronger — and that is the love and the patience, the sacrifices, and the helping hands you applied at the right times and places. You gave all of yourselves for your children. I would that I may have the strength to do as much for our children. I'm thankful the phone rang last night. It woke me up in several ways. It could easily have been sad news from home. Some day or some night it will be, but, Mom and Dad, when it happens I will not sadly say, "I wish I'd have let them know before it was too late." I have had these thoughts within me for so long and have always said, "Someday I will sit down and write the folks a long letter and Jet them know how I really feel." Someday — someday. Too many of us have too many somedays. 359 Cuopre your baby in a colorful crib quilt. Always a valuable addition to any layette, these low-cost quilts are also nice to make for gifts or for money-making items for your Relief Society bazaar. Let your imagination go to work, and you will be pleasantly surpriscd at the beautiful and clever ideas you can discover at the amazingly low price of about three dollars a quilt. A Flannel Quilt For a simple but serviceable beginning, buy a yard and a half of unbleached muslin, a one-pound quilt batting (this is enough for two crib quilts), and a yard and half of plain-colored or figured flannel. Be sure the fabric is at least one yard wide, as this is enough, but if you want the quilt to be a little wider, sew a border of a contrasting or matching fabric all around, having wider strips along the sides. Better yet. Buy your fabric in the drapery department as it comes wider, and is of better quality. Flannel makes a soft, cozy quilt back. It wears well and is inexpensive. You may want to make both the front and back of flannel. If you are artistically inclined, dream up any number of figures from babyland to trace on the muslin. Draw your chosen designs on a piece of wrapping paper the same size as your quilt, first, then transfer them to the material with the use of carbon paper. If you need help, there are many coloring books or storybooks with cute figures from which to copy clever little Mother Goose figures or animals. If you don't like to spend the time required for embroidering, you can buy real wax coloring crayons and color the figures in solid colors, then press with a cloth dipped in a strong vinegar and water mixture to set the colors. Here is also a good way to use your textile paints to good advantage. A Satin Quilt For a fancier quilt, you may want to use satin or similar material. On these, the quilting itself can be your design, and there is no limit to the cute figures you can create by merely quilting around your lightly outlined patterns. Quilt Blocks and Applique You may prefer to make a real old-fashioned-style quilt, using six or eight small blocks, either embroidered or appliqued, and sewed together with strips of the samc 360 f N 7 ' { \ / ' $ / NX A minx \ { ' 4! \ / \ / / / N ' ~" \ ' \ / 7 > i, 4 Y XN y "a % y 4 N. 7 7 XN 7 '% 7 ' 'A ' A " ~ XN — - —" a bes rey 4. = \. Mmm an Oe OT So a ee" -~ ore S "eal p a 7 h *e "a a F ' J x 4 " yt ~ awe -%,? T =< A L} we % ~ 7% 7 ' Oo" <, nN N x / s 4 y. XN wa q A, wi 'XN Path '7 yi \; ' - \ ' ' \ \ JN Wa % ZN 1' ad S /. ' Dr A 7 N Hg \ 7 S ee mTMm es @ 7 Se 4 ~~ 4 X cA 4 wee a 4 ~ ~~ "A * f p70 CN aa a ' id r) NN 7 W " '. 'M J '.. ' ' S J. =e ~- 7 7 material you are using for the back of the quilt. This is a good way to use scraps from other sewing projects. Preparing to Quilt When you get the top of the quilt made, you are ready to put it together with the batting in between. To do this, pin the back of the quilt to the quilting frames. Now place the batting carefully on. Next, pin the top of the quilt in place. Now you are ready to quilt with small stitches. Stitch around each figure, being sure to get through all the thicknesses of material. Now bind all the edges with wide cotton bias or wide satin ribbon, or bias strips of the material you wish. If you don't have quilting frames, you can use your curtain stretchers, or you can make some frames, by tacking strong cotton strips on four long, narrow boards, Icaving about an inch of the material at the edge along the board so that pins can hold the quilt in place firmly. You then can buy four clamps to hold the boards together at the four corners. Prop the frames on four chairs. Tied Quiit Here is an idea for an easy quilt. This docsn't need to be quilted, but is tied with yarn. Buy a bright print which has large animals or circus people, and put a discarded cotton blanket in between the front and the back of the quilt. Thread a large needle with colorful yarn and take one stitch clear through all the thicknesses, pulling the threads long cnough to tie. You may baste this way all across in rows and cut the thread in between to tie, There should be a tie every four or five inches in even rows. Do not tie the yarn too tightly, as it may shrink and break. If you would like a quilt which is less heavy, or bulky — one that can be used as a spread as well as a quilt — then make the top of an all-over design and a bottom of good heavy flannel with no batting or other thickness between. Put the top and bottom right sides together and sew on your sewing machine around three sides, leaving the fourth side open to turn inside out. After turning, fold the raw edges of the fourth edge inside and stitch along. This quilt needs no binding. Now, baste along all four edges and around cach figure with very long basting stitches. Machine stitch around cach figure with your longest machine stitch. Try not to pull the quilt as you sew, but just gently guide it through, to prevent pucking. Now take out the basting. 361 "Reepet frou the a" so i i a zy |,, oe ~IAULon | Romaine R. Cooksey EMPANADITAS (little fried pies) (Castile, Spain) CRUST: fry pies in hot fat at once to a light golden brown. 5 c. Flour. These pies are better small, as they 5 tsp. (level) baking powder are rich. They are a favorite for Y, tsp. Salt Christm die Wiican Yc. Shortening (or less) mstmas among the Spanis people. Meat broth from cooked pork to form soft dough FILLING Sift together into mixing bowl the 2 Ibs. Pork flour, baking powder, and salt. Cut in 2 c. Sugar shortening with pastry blender. Add 1 c. Soaked raisins meat broth sufficient to form soft 1 tsp. Nutmeg dough. Turn dough onto lightly floured 1 tsp. Cinnamon board. Roll dough to a thinness 1 tsp. Cloves equal to that for ordinary pies. Cut 4 tsp. Salt into small circles with cookie cutter about the size of a cup. Place filling Cook pork the day before and grind on bottom crusts, using a teaspoon, with small grinder. (Be sure to save and cover with a top crust. Flute the broth for the dough). Mix the two crusts together, using two fingers, ground pork and other ingredients so they will hold the filling in. Deep together. RED CHILI I Ib. Pork from which all fat has been removed 1 tbsp. Sait 1 tsp. Chili powder 1 tbsp. Flour Y% c. Cold water 1 tsp. Garlic, chopped fine or 1 tsp. Cominos (if Preferred) chili, flour, and cold water and add to cooked meat. Add garlic, or cominos, if preferred. You now have delicious chili. 363 Appetite | Teasers for Preschoolers _ Margaret Maxwell Meal planning is sometimes a problem for the busy mother of a preschool child. What can she fix that is nutritious and appealing to the older members of the family, and yet is suitable and tempting fare for a small child? The preschooler, even more than the adult, must have a diet which includes a generous supply of foods chosen from the basic four groups: milk, meat and eggs, vegetables and fruits, and bread and cereal products. Yet, as every mother knows, the very foods that are most important to good, allaround nutrition for the preschooler are often those which he likes the least. However, food can be served to the small child in such a way that he will naturally develop good eating habits that will benefit him throughout his life. Introduce new foods to the preschooler casually, without special comment. It is helpful if the rest of the family is in the habit of trying new dishes with enthusiasm, as such an attitude is contagious. Serve only one new food at a time, in a small helping, preferably with an old favorite to go along with it. It 364 is good psychology, if the child rejects the new food, to remove it without comment. Sometimes the casual remark, "I'm not at all surprised you don't like this. This is grown-up food," will make a child have second thoughts about the new dish. Try the new food again in a couple of weeks. The results may be altogether different. The younger child, who is still learning to manipulate eating utensils successfully, finds it a welcome relief to be served food which may be picked up with his fingers. Crisp foods, such as carrot sticks, celery sticks, and toast cut in quarters or strips are easy to eat and generally popular. Hard-cooked egg cut in quarters, chunks of raw, peeled apple, cooked whole green beans, and asparagus spears add interest to the toddler's diet. For the mother of the "picky" eater, here are a few hints. A small, child-size plastic glass, or a cup from a set of play dishes, which can be filled and refilled by the child himself from a little pitcher, may encourage the milk-hater to drink his quota of milk without a protest. A drop of red food coloring, making "pink milk," or a shake of sweetened strawberry or chocolate-flavored instant mix in his pitcher, makes plain milk more interesting for an occasional change. Small, colorful plates and dishes served with dollsize portions of food often spur the reluctant eater to demand second and even third helpings. But the best help the parents of the healthy but balky young eater can give is to regard his eating, or non-eating, with casual nonchalance. Here are a group of tested favorites that are special treats for times when the preschooler is eating without the older members of the family — although these dishes have such eye and taste appeal that the rest of the family will probably want to try them, too. They are rich in nourishing protein, minerals, and vitamins, and yet they can be served as a "party food" that will make the small child clean his plate and come back for more. EGGNOG AND VARIATIONS Easily digested, high in body-building protein, eggnog has long been a favorite of both preschoolers and their nutritionconscious mothers. For the child who simply doesn't like milk, or who balks at his morning soft-cooked egg, an eggnog, served in a small cup with a straw to go with it, may be a happy solution. BASIC EGGNOG RECIPE Beat one egg with rotary beater or electric blender. Gradually add | tsp. Vanilla extract, a dash of salt, and | c. Cold milk. Sweeten to taste. Sprinkle with nutmeg just before serving. Variations: Molasses Eggnog: Add 2 tsp. Molasses to above recipe for added iron. Orange Eggnog: Add 14 c. Orange juice to above recipe; omit nutmeg. APPETITE TEASERS FOR PRESCHOOLERS Egg Cream: l egg, separated 2 tsp. Sugar V4, c. Powdered milk l/4, c. Boiling water sprinkle of nutmeg Beat egg white stiff with rotary beater. Beat in sugar, powdered milk, and egg yolk. Slowly pour in boiling water, beating constantly. Serve with a sprinkle of nutmeg on each cup. Makes about 2 servings. Cheese, egg, and tuna dishes make hearty energy fare for the small child's luncheon menu. Here are two main-dish favorites for the preschool set. ONE-EYED SAILORS With a biscuit cutter, remove the center of a slice of bread. Dip the remainder in French toast batter (beaten egg thinned with milk or cream and a pinch of salt). Lay bread in hot greased skillet; break an egg into the hollow center. Cover skillet and cook until egg is set and bread is brown on bottom. Turn over briefly to set egg on top and brown other side of bread. Dip leftover bread centers in French toast batter and bake on hot skillet. Serve with applesauce sprinkled with cinnamon. PINK RABBIT Blend one can tomato soup with 4 c. Shredded cheese. Add % ec. Chunk tuna. Heat until cheese is melted and all ingredients well blended. Serve over hot buttered toast wedges, with a glass of cold milk. For a special dessert treat, try Pink Peppermint Pudding, or Strawberry Surprise Cakes. STRAWBERRY SURPRISE CAKES 24 small white, plain cupcakes, cooked 1 recipe strawberry-flavored gelatin Slice off cupcake tops; hollow out cupcake with spoon. Fill with slightly thickened strawherry-flavored gelatin. Replace top; refrigerate until gelatin is set. Leftover cake centers may be saved and mixed with vanilla or butterscotch pudding for a dessert treat for the next day. As an occasional breakfast or supper treat, top a cup of hot cocoa with a marshmallow and serve with cinnamon toast, or 365 MAY 1964 with chocolate toast. For chocolate toast: 14 c. Raisins mix a heaping tbsp. Of sugar with Y, tsp. 1 drop red food coloring of cocoa; sprinkle over hot buttered toast. 1 drop peppermint flavoring, if desired Y, ce. Powdered milk PINK PEPPERMINT PUDDING Blend all ingredients except powdered 34, c. Hot water milk in small saucepan. Bring to boil, 4 tbsp. Farina stirring constantly; cook until thickened. 1 tsp. Sugar Remove from heat: stir in powdered milk. Sprinkle of cinnamon Serve warm. Serves 2. Ma itmeal Date Bread Anne Marie Astle 1% ¢C. Warm milk 1 tsp. Cinnamon 2 pkg. Dry yeast 2 tbsp. Shortening 1 c. Rolled oats (uncooked ) " ¢. Cut-up dates 1 tsp. Salt 3 to 3% c. Sifted flour "" C. Sugar Dissolve yeast in warm milk. Add oats, salt, sugar, cinnamon, shortening, and dates. Stir well. Mix in flour. Knead on lightly floured board until smooth and elastic. Place in greased bowl; cover. Let rise until double in bulk (1 to 1% hours); punch down and allow to rise again. After second rising shape into loaf; place in greased loaf pan. Cover; let rise again. Bake at 375° for 40 to 45 minutes. Icing While still slightly warm, ice top with mixture of % Cup powdered sugar mixed with enough milk to make a thin icing. 366 Patricia M. Faas Our staff was invited to the boss' home for dinner. With all the temptinglooking and very delicious foods being served, no one even thought of dessert, when the host asked his wife, "Is there dessert?" "Dessert!" she exclaimed, "if they get any, they'll have to build their own!" In the next moment, our plates were removed and the table hastily set for another course. A fruit dish appeared, loaded with bananas and seedless grapes. Ice cream balls (two kinds) rolled in coconut and flaked nuts, were passed along with several kinds of ice cream toppings. Other fruits were served, including berries, maraschino cherries, and crushed pineapple. After delighted remarks had subsided, we set about building our own desserts. This treat alone has proved to be quite successful in our own family for planning parties and Church get-togethers. It is great fun, very little work for the hostess, and has special appeal for youngsters and. Oldsters of every age. And it is interesting to observe how many exciting personalities a build-yourown dessert can have!. Suggested toppings: Chocolate, caramel, butterscotch, marshmallow. Fruit toppings: strawberry, pineapple, boysenberry, raspberry, peach. Other trimmings: nuts, coconut, seedless grapes, maraschino cherries. Janet W. Breeze Are your little ones learning to dress themselves? Iron _ four-color transfers onto the fronts of undershirts and panties for fewer turnabouts. 367 ;; ) rT? " Sn Lf ry; Ji J i, 7 >. 7 Peet ibei. I}} Home Leona Fetzer Wintch a = Home, Our Heaven on Earth | alee' it wonderful that we can come home to spout off pent-up feelings that need to be released? We cannot do this in public, so we sometimes behave worst around those whom we love the most. This letting off steam should not be frequent, however. Yet, some explodings, raised voices, and tears of children (and others who are not yet angels) come with disagreements that are a process of growth. The voicing of some differences can, at times, be wholesome. We can even say, "Happy is the home where enlightened discussions characterize the communication between family members." Home should be a calm refuge, a place of warmth, fragrant with kindness. None of us can stand pressures all day long and come home to more of them without having the mortar of life washed out of us. The father of the home likes to have his surroundings neat and pleasing, but when he has to be careful where he sits, be becomes confused and unhappy. To be harassed during work hours and again at home harrows the heart of any man. But if home is a refuge from tensions and frustrations, the peace and love he feels become an annealing balm to him. With the oil of gladness crowning him, he can see unlimited horizons and meet daily challenges with new physical and mental vigor. The demanding, stampeding world can be better met by all of us if we find replenishment in this haven, our heaven on earth. To Be or to Do? That Is the Question D° you sometimes feel compelled to keep moving, going, and doing, even after you are exhausted or have time off? The value of this kind of "busy work" is questionable, because it is not motivated by wholesome purposiveness. The next time you drive yourself without knowing why, reflect on Emerson's saying that it is easier to do than to be. Philosophers have talked about this for centuries, and today psychologists underline the words. When we are insistent on doing rather than being, it is time to become analytical. It is possible that we keep on the go to avoid ourselves, since when we hurry around, we do not have time to measure our goals or our true situations. Then we almost have to force ourselves to find a quiet space and re-evaluate the very factors in our lives that we are trying to repress. The serenity we seek can only come when we face ourselves, because satisfying relationships with others depend on our own good relationships with ourselves. We often harrow our inner peace with bitter ashes of regret. At least weekly, we should take stock of ourselves, repent, partake of the sacrament, and then turn our energies to self-fulfillment. Then we can be, as well as do. 368 Care of a be tion to her f. Autiful garden 369 Alma A. Fernelius, Ogden, Utah, rk, garden work her pr incipal as, Le we ae Bie eatReR TE barre Hom asad —S ret detiey Mr aS. Zt aa eat + sese RS BOMRSRE Ae OL Pa an ve ads Ve Mare @ 4 ue varae & BPR, S*avebee Meoer pee sae Aig oe 24 3 * \ ptarat ev ieae res aot Re osy ae Oey Sere +e Rea Som as a 3 Be wee Ope 290.) ang Py ayers wrote atasenieys *) Parare ae rarer esis Ss Fae seetesig, FON ray fatates fate renee ri rane' i Be. * R.? " Bayt PEL IET TT. Rv 4 dvesger. Parnas heehee y a3 'am {8a ') 9 Pe) je rr): 3 ' Hazel M. Thomson Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, arrive in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, after traveling across the plains in a company commanded by Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena, whose fiance died at Winter Quarters, is bitter over her loss and cannot be comforted. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley. They decide to accompany the saints who are leaving for San Bernardino, California, to make a settlement there. Selena is invited to accompany Belle and Josiah, and Lon, still in love with Selena, decides to go with the company. Lon was silent for some time, waging a battle within himself, between what he wanted to do and the thing he felt was right and honorable. Belle, too, lapsed into silence, taking a deep interest in the country around her, as she did wherever she traveled. As they watched the beautiful mountains, both Lon and Belle could see the lead wagons pulling off to the side to stop for the night. Some of the people in the 370 CHAPTER 4 wagon train would find friends here at Provo. This night there would be singing and dancing and the renewal of friendships. Cabin doors would be thrown open to bid the travelers welcome, and hot meals would be provided through the hospitality of these saints, so recently on the trail themselves. "TI can't do it, Belle,' Lon finally said. "You can't do it? But why, Lon?" "Selena doesn't know her own mind right now. I can't ask her to marry me yet." "I'm giving you fair warning, Lon. I know how long you have been in love with my sister, but if you stand by and let this Alfred Quale step into Selena's life you'll not be doing her any favor." "How can you be so sure, Belle? He might be a whole lot better Latter-day Saint than I am. What do you have against him, anyway?" Belle looked at Lon in amazement. "T can't understand you, Lon Holiday, to take such an attitude in this. I guess I've been wrong from the start. I thought you were in love with Selena."' "T am in love with her, Belle, and that's the very reason I can't take advantage of her unhappiness and ask her to marry me when she's in such a state of indecision about everything." "Tl get down now, if you please," Belle said. "Sorry to have bothered you, Lon." "Belle," pleaded Lon, as he drew the horses to a halt, '"'please don't misunderstand me. You know what Selena means to me." "IT know that if this Alfred keeps coming around, and she decides to marry him it will be your fault," said Belle as she jumped to the ground and headed for her own wagon. AFTER the meeting at which the final organization for travel was worked out, everyone being notified as to whether they were to be in Brother Lyman's group or the remaining half of the wagons which Brother Rich would lead, there was a party of good will held for the travelers. When the dancing began there was Alfred, just as Belle had feared, offering his arm to Selena. Where was Lon? Belle wondered. He had been right there by Josiah just a moment ago. As Selena accepted the invitation and moved onto the roughhewn boards that served as a floor in this building used both for recreation and worship, Belle looked up at Josiah. Their eyes YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING met, and Josiah knew immediately what was worrying his wife. "You heard them make him captain of ten again for the trip. He said he had to go check the wagons under his command while he is still here where there is an anvil and forge if they are needed."' "Selena dancing with that Alfred, and Lon out checking wagon wheels! Well, I don't know why I should worry if he refuses to!"' THE trip at first had been taken leisurely, traveling through the settlements, but the visiting for a night with friends was coming to an end. Lon, never really enthusiastic about leaving the Great Salt Lake Valley, felt again a wave of uneasiness as he listened to the words of Brother Rich. "The company is too large to travel together," he said. "In order to prevent drawing too heavily on the desert springs at any one time, there must be some little distance between the first and second sections of the group. However, we will have places of meeting along the way. When the first section reaches Parowan, it is to wait for the other to arrive. Further plans will be made then for crossing the desert." The assignments had already been made, but the names were read again in order to have no misunderstandings. Lon knew he would be traveling with Brother Rich, while Josiah was included in Brother Lyman's group. The long meeting was drawing to its close, and there was still no sign of President Young. 'Then Brother Pratt, who evidently had 371 MAY 1964 just arrived at the meeting, stepped into the firelight. He conversed in a whisper with Brother Lyman and Brother Rich. The crowd waited expectantly. This was the moment that they had been anticipating since leaving Salt Lake, that of hearing a farewell message from their President, who had been out of the city at the time, making visits to the newer settlements. The announcement was short — simply that President Young would not be present. Lon waited through the closing hymn and the prayer. He saw Josiah and Belle leave to return to their wagon. Across the firelight he watched Selena walking away from the group beside Alfred Quayle, his hand on her arm. Lown could not go yet. He must know. He went at once to where the three apostles stood. "Brother Pratt," Lon said. '"We had hoped to hear from the President. He is in the settlement, isn't he?" "He is," Brother Parley answered. "I called upon him myself. He is most disturbed at the size of the group." "But why?" asked Lon. "Didn't he, himself, place Brother Rich and Brother Lyman in charge of the undertaking? Would he do that and not be in favor of our going?" "He told me that he expected about twenty men, with their families, to go. His statement was that 'the sight of so many of the saints, running to Califormia, chiefly after the god of this world' sickened him and he felt unable to address them." Lon turned away, shaken. Half- 372 way to his wagon he stopped suddenly and raised his eyes to the star-filled skies. Aloud, with no one to hear except the night wind, he vowed a vow. "I have started this," he said. "T shall help move this company on to California. Nothing shall come between me and the God of heaven, and one day I will return." Just saying the words aloud seemed helpful to Lon. He felt a reassurance that always, wherever he was, he would never permit his actions to cause him to lose his newly acquired testimony of truth. As Lon neared Josiah's wagon, on the way to his own, he saw Belle coming toward him. "I think you should go right this minute and ask them to change you back to Brother Rich's Company, so you will be with us and Selena." "TI can't do that, Belle." There was quiet determination in the words. "I must help as captain of ten where I've been assigned." "You can help just as well in our company. I can't see that it makes a mite of difference." "But it does. First of all, Brother Lyman has Captain Hunt with him. He has been over the route twice before and will be a valuable help to the group, to all of us, in fact. But the leaders are making it a point not to put all the men who have been captains of groups in the lead company. I must stay where I've been placed by those in charge. Brother Rich is the only man we have who has traveled this route." Belle recognized the finality of his decision and the uselessness of argument. "Lon, sometimes I wonder whether Selena _ really means anything to you." In the darkness it was impossible for her to see the look of pain cross Lon's face. He waited a long moment before he spoke. "Next to the gospel itself, I love Selena more than anything in this world, Belle. And I've been worried all along that I had done the wrong thing in going to California. President Young's deciding against speaking to us tonight has helped confirm my fears. But I've started this thing, and now I have a job to do. You say I could do it just as well in the other company. That's not the only consideration. Refusing to take counsel is the first step along the road to apostasy. I can't let this happen in my case. Whatever is asked of me, that is the thing I must do." Belle fell in step beside Lon, and the two of them walked together back to Josiah's wagon. Selena and Alfred were seated on a log in front of the wagon. Belle went on to the back of the wagon and entered it. Lon spoke to the other two, lifted his hat and would have walked on when he heard Alfred speaking to him. "T heard them read your name with the rear company, Holiday. Did you get it changed back all right?" Lon looked at Selena. She was staring into the fire, not seeing either of them. Lon's heart ached within him at the thought of being separated from her so much more than he had been. He well realized that only upon rare occasions would the two groups be together throughout the remainder of the trip. He turned back to face Alfred Quayle. YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING "T didn't ask," he said. Alfred whooped. "What!" "T didn't ask," repeated Lon. "Man, don't you realize that the grass will be all gone and the water holes dry, time that last company comes along?" "'T'll take my chances," Lon answered evenly. He turned to Selena and held out his hand. "Goodbye, Selena. I hope the rest of the trip will be pleasant for you." As the trip progressed, Lon found himself wondering at times, whether he should have asked to remain with the other company. Still, there was always the satisfaction of knowing that he had done as he had been asked. He was beginning to believe that Quayle had other designs, once he arrived in California. Had Lon only known it, Josiah in the wagon train ahead, was beginning to get much the same impression. Quayle had made himself quite a constant rider with Selena. True, she laughed at his jokes, and even Belle had grudgingly admitted that it was more pleasant to have Selena acting like this than in such a state of depression. It was one evening after supper when the women were doing up the dishes that Alfred made the remark that caused Josiah to suspect that Belle had been right in her feelings concerning him. "These wagons move so infernally slow," Alfred said. '"'Hope there is still some left when we get there." "Some?" asked Josiah, looking up from the gun he was cleaning. "Some what?" "Gold! Oh, I know right 373 MAY 1964 enough that we're a few years behind the rush, but they're still making strikes occasionally. And I mean to make one!" "But I thought you knew," said Josiah. "I thought everyone in the wagon knew that we're not going to look for gold. We're going only to build another settlement to the glory of the Lord." "You may be," answered Alfred, looking far away toward the blue mountains to the south and west. "Not me. I'm going to build up the glory of Alfred Quayle. And believe me, it's going to be quite a glory!" Josiah repeated his conversation with Quayle, confirming Belle's fears about the man. She was remembering Josiah's words of just a few short days ago. "Why are you so pessimistic, Belle?" he had asked. "Just because you had Lon Holiday all branded and tagged for your sister, you can't see her with anyone else. You'll have to admit Quayle has cheered your sister up considerable. He's quite a joker." "Oh, he's a joker, all right," Belle had agreed. 'He can make Selena laugh, but I don't think he could ever make her happy." "Well, he wouldn't be my choice for Selena, Belle, but you'd better get it through your head that we're not doing the choosing. If she decides on Quayle, reckon we'll just have to welcome him into the family and like it."' "IT might have to welcome him into the family, but I don't have to like it,' Belle said. ''Oh, it makes me so mad that Lon wouldn't even ask to be put in our company!" 374 "It was a point of honor with him, Belle," Josiah had said. ''He felt it was his duty and when Lon Holiday feels something to be his duty, there's nothing or no one going to stop him from doing it." THE close association Lon was having with Brother Rich became a source of pleasure to him, interspersed with his worries concerning Selena in the company ahead. The apostle had been over the route they were traveling some two years before. He remembered many things of interest which he shared with Lon, as the two of them walked together by the side of Brother Rich's wagon and his six yoke of oxen. Lon found it impossible to ride comfortably in his own wagon and see some of the sisters walking beside their own teams of oxen, so often he walked as one or another of them drove his horses. "Tt's the desert that will really test our strength, Lon," Brother Rich had said. "If we can only get across it with all our people and animals, everything else will work out fine." Will it? Lon found himself wondering. The days began to drag and he was most impatient to reach Little Salt Lake Valley and the lead company and Selena. They had been over three weeks on the trail when he heard Brother Rich shout, 'There it is! That's Parowan up ahead and the other company." When they pulled up and stopped for camp, Lon could hardly force himself to take the time to check his ten wagons before he went in search of Josiah's outfit. He hoped he would find Josiah and Belle with just Selena and no company. Especially without the particular company he had in mind. He was just ready to leave when Brother Rich came. "Lon! I'm glad I found you in camp. I need you to go in to Parowan and see if you can find any barrels or canteens that we might be able to get. When we get to the desert we will need YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING every container that will hold water. Several of us are going. Can you come along?" "Why, of course," answered Lon, disappointment hanging heavy upon him. This might take the entire evening. The lead company would be moving out in the early morning. (To be continued) Prayer for My Daughter Carolle Denton Dark as the earth, her eyes, dark and brushed With secrets only this birth has hushed. From root to leaf, the life is the tree. Let this young child take strength from me. Time on the leaf, lines drawn with care, Will tell the story life places there, And fed by the tree all summer long, Let the leaf in the wind echo bird's song. The fruit of the tree is the color of fall, The ripening after the springtime call, And gently touched by the earth and skies, Let her learn the secrets in her dark eyes. 375 MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1963 ' syevery Stake South Los Angeles (California) 209% Magazine Representative — Amelia Dellenbach Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 349% Magazine Representative — Imogene Slater Mission Irish Mission — 135% Mission Magazine Representative — Sandra M. Covey Mission District Londonderry-Omagh District, Irish Mission — 154% Magazine Representative — Sandra M. Covey Mission Branch Sidney Branch — 311% West Nebraska District, Western States Mission Magazine Representative — Gladys Dean Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes South Los Angeles _ 00000.0 000022ecee eens209 Amelia Dellenbach Huntington Park 2200 eee.185 Rachel Liston Glendale _ 222..222..-2.. Eee141 Kdythe M. Fairbanks Mojave oon eee eee eee139 Alice Bundies IG vt 4 (=a eles133 Edith Pew Burley 222220130 Virginia F. Nichols Las Vegas 22.20.22 eeeeeeeneeeeeeeeee129 Eloise Leavitt ld oC0\:) 0) >125 Alva Knight South Idaho Falls 00.0..- 0.. Oee eee.125 Alice Moss JS 1216 (0) 00 (0122 Nedra R. Stott Missions Achieving Ten Highest Percentages MP nonce cece eeeeeecncerccencecececeeeoeeee135 Sandra M. Covey Western States 00116 Carroll Thorpe Califormia 22222 ooo eeeece cece cence ceeeecnn eens114 Midene McKay Anderson North Central States109 Carmen L. Dahlgren Northwestern States100 Eva Mertlich Camadian oo 99 Caroline Willey Lee Pitcher Northern States 99 Ira Mae Palmer New England 96 Alberta S. Baker West Central States 96 Laura C. Horne Eastern States_ 92 Zelma R. West 377 MAY 1964 Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 1652 Twin Falls 1041 Huntington Park 1317 Maricopa 1018 Glendale 1307 Burley 1008 Mesa 111544 Wells 983 Ensign 1050 Hillside 976 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions East Central States 1196 Southern States 639 New England 928 Eastern Atlantic 603 Northwestern States 812 Florida 578 Gulf States 726 Northern States 549 North Central States 667 Canadian 547 Stakes in Which All Wards Received 100% or Over Alameda 20.22--222200eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeRosalie W. Taylor 7200000 0(0) | aeViolet Wakley Bear River 0 222-.222222-20220-eee-ee-eeLottie R. Potter Bonneville 22 0.22020002200eeeeeeeeeeeeeGrace B. Larsen | STO) Ke) 9Della Chaplin Burley "222.2000. Ecco eee eeVirginia F. Nichols Menver 2 SFKatherina Belmain East Idaho Falls 2 0.02.00 ---22-----Sarah Owens East Jordan 2 -2-cecceescoeece-eneeeeeeceeLaVenna S. Cook East Phoenix 222220222000---000eeeeee=Geneva Cluff East Sharon _ 00.0.00000000000000222220ceeeeeeeeeeeeeeWanda Kelly Glendale _ 22.2200. Edythe M. Fairbanks Gramite 22000020 ec cece eeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeeeeecereeeJane Henry oe | ennOdell Overly Highland 220000 eensLucille M. Larsen Huntington Park..0000000000000.2000002222. C2ee neeRachel Liston Inglewood 2o..2..02.. Ooo ooo eeeeceeeceeeeeeeeeeeneeee-Edith Pew Long Beach 02.22020020c2sceeeeeeeeeeeErma Halls aMaude Y. Jensen Mesa South _2000000000 oooecesee ce eececeee cece eeeMyrna Skousen | nnn SrLaVaun L. Allen North Tooele _ 20 0..0002000022-eeeeeeeeeeeee eeeMildred H. Sagers Ce) heKathryn D. Mullikin Oakland-Berkeley 000000.0000000-00..22200--2-----LaVon B. Johnson 1, aEleanor D. Olsen Parleys SeeeeGenevieve M. Lewis | ole) =) 0 >Alva Knight Phoenix West 0000000000000. CeceGeraldine Slaven Pocatello _ 0000000000000000 neAlice Brandt | Sk) 0610) 0: Nora Perdue NS 116 (0) 016 (0Nedra R. Stott St. Joseph eeNira P. Lee Scottsdale _ 2..0 220o0 coon eeAnna Lee Gooch Shelley 2.22.0 eeeJune L. Walton South Box Elder _o00.00.0..0000.00000000000oe.. Nila J. Stucki South Idaho Falls _.0000000000000Alice Moss South Los Angeles _ 0.0000.000000 __.. Amelia Dellenbach South Salt Lake.20000000000 2. Hannah Dietrich 378 Temple View --::.-:--0:----eoceeeeeeee* Mabel E. Snow TOrrance ------22--eneeeee cece ee eneeneeeeeeneeesIvy Higdon 002) |Gertrude Fullmer Whittier 0000020. C. Ee eee eee Melba J. Huff Wilford 0.2.2.2--ce2-0-c-2eceeeeeceeceeeeveeeeeeeeeeeeeeLila F. Madsen Woodruff 2.2 2 esse cece eeecee eee eeeee eee Gladys K. Groll Zion Park 02..222eeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneneeee-Pearl W. Stratton South Los Angeles 209 Huntington Park Glendale Mojave Inglewood Burley Las Vegas Phoenix South Idaho Falls Redondo Rexburg Torrance Temple View Whittier Woodruff Alameda Long Beach Shelley Ashley Phoenix West St. Joseph San Diego San Joaquin Oquirrh Pomona Liberty Maricopa Phoenix North Brigham City East Jordan East Phoenix North Box Elder Pocatello Boston Denver Florida Napa Portland South Box Elder West Covina 185 Yuma Granite Lost River Palomar Reseda San Diego East South Salt Lake Toronto West Boise Alaska Canoga Park East Idaho Falls Santa Maria Scottsdale Grant Holladay Mt. Graham Wichita Ammon Big Horn Bonneville Concord Edmonton Idaho Falls Lake View Mt. Rubidoux North Pocatello Palmyra Parleys Rigby St. Louis Twin Falls Weber Heights Wells Box Elder Ensign Grand Junction Highland Moapa North Tooele 111 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 109 109 109 109 109 108 108 108 108 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 106 106 106 106 106 106 Stakes by Percentages — 1963 Zion Park Cumorah Minidoka Oakland-Berkeley Redwood Santa Monica South Bear River Bear River Lake Mead Malad Millcreek Monument Park Nyssa Taber Union Wilford Cassia Cheyenne Columbus Mesa Mesa South Mt. Jordan New Orleans North Seattle Portneuf Provo Reno San Fernando Sevier Star Valley Casper Columbia River Franklin Norwalk Santa Barbara Snowflake Sydney Taylor Tucson Boise MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1963 106 105 105 105 105 105 105 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 101 379 MAY 1964 East Mesa East Sharon Juab Pasadena Potomac Santa Rosa Burbank Park Reno North San Diego South San Jose West Southern Arizona West Utah East Rigby Gridley Hayward Kansas City Ogden Panguitch St. George East Uvada Yellowstone American Falls Chicago Detroit East Millcreek Granite Park Idaho Las Vegas N orth Olympus St. George St. Johns San Bernardino Spanish Fork Wind River Fast Long Beach East Provo Grand Coulee Granger Great Falls Juarez New Jersey North Jordan North Rexburg Riverton South Summit Sugar House Bannock Farr West Garden Grove 380 101 101 101 101 101 101 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 99° 99 99 99 99 99 99 - 98 99 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 96 96 96 Raft River Sacramento South Cottonwood Teton Tooele Washington East Los Angeles Emigration Los Angeles Mt. Logan Nampa Orange County San Juan Blackfoot Calgary Cottonwood Denver West Kolob Milwaukee North Idaho Falls Puget Sound Riverdale Salt Lake San Leandro Santa Ana Covina Oneida Pikes Peak Riverside San Mateo Springville Valley View West Sharon Winder Alberta Cache Cedar East Pocatello Logan Moroni Nebo San Francisco Canyon Rim Deseret Missoula Monterey Bay Roy Salmon River Seattle Weiser 96 96 96 96 96 96 95 95 95 95 95 95 95 94 94 94 94 94 94 94 94 94 94 94 94 93 93 93 93 93 93 93 93 93 92 92 92 92 98 92 92 92 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 Dallas Duchesne East Ogden El Paso Hillside Portland West South Blackfoot South Davis Uintah West Pocatello Albuquerque Bakersfield Cedar West Chicago South Montpelier Richland Timpanogos University West Utah Young Bountiful East Cannon Fresno Houston Humboldt North Davis North Sacramento North Weber San Luis Obispo Taylorsville Virginia Wasatch Benson Billings Brisbane East Cache Gooding Granger N orth Kanab Lethbridge Nevada Rose Park Tacoma Washington Terrace American Fork Bountiful South Hyrum Lansing 90 87 86 Monument Pk. West 86 Philadelphia 86 San Luis Santaquin-Tintic Summit Alpine Bountiful Butte Honolulu Lorin Farr Mt. Ogden New York North Carolina Oklahoma South Ogden Wayne American River Beaver Ben Lomond Blaine Cascade Melbourne Palo Alto Sandy Tampa Bear Lake Corvallis Davis Grantsville Layton Redding San Jose Smithfield Butler Murray South West Jordan Carbon Klamath 86 MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1963 Midvale 81 North Sevier 81 Roosevelt 81 Sharon 81 South Sanpete 81 Weber 81 Atlanta 80 Millard 80 Raleigh 80 Walnut Creek 80 Clearfield 79 Flagstaff 719 Lyman 79 Murray 719 Pioneer 79 South Sevier 79 Spokane 79 Yakima 719 Ben Lomond South 78 Craig 78 Fresno East 78 Kaysville 78 Lehi 78 Minnesota 78 Morgan 78 Vancouver 78 North Carbon vit] North Sanpete 17 Tulsa 77 Cleveland 76 Garfield 76 Kearns 76 Leicester 76 Lewiston 76 Miami 76 Auckland 75 rf._ > Gilean Douglas For all the lost and lonely, The weary and unwise, Lord, send them hands to hold And understanding eyes. Your sky is benediction, Its stars light up the night — And, oh, the blessed comfort Of a neighbor's candlelight. Greensboro vs) Parowan 75 Bountiful North 74 Willamette 74 Coeur d'Alene 73 Emery 73 South Carolina B2 Winter Quarters 72 Kearns North vl Orlando 71 San Antonio va | Shreveport 71 Orem 70 Gunnison 69 Indianapolis 69 Orem West 69 Manchester 68 Beaumont 67 Cincinnati 67 Macon 67 South Carolina West 67 Pearl Harbor 65 Salem 65 Glasgow 63 Fort Wayne 63 Sandy East 62 Hamilton 61 Leeds 61 Illinois 60 London 60 Oahu 43 Sunderland 36 Limited Participation University B. Y. U. Utah State Univ. 66 28 20 381 382 Relief Society Alameda Alaska Alberta Albuquerque Alpine American Falls American Fork American River Ammon Ashley Atlanta Auckland Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Ben Lomond South Benson Big Horn Billings Blackfoot Blaine Boise Bonneville Boston Bountiful Bountiful East Bountiful South Box Elder Enroll ment 483 937| 750\ 592) 635 | 392 631 803 516 496 263 382 583 360 505 540 557 683 540 650 873 323 728 | 299 710 907 319 677 388 639 451 Subscriptions No. | 567 260 686 528 542} 384 545 676 553 577 210 286 518 347 418 564 468 573 422 567 936 281 681 252 714 974 355 575 340 549 479 Pet. 117 109 92 89 85 98 86 84 107 116 80 75 89 96 83 104 84 84 78 87 107 87 94 84 101 107 111 85 88 86 106 Magazine Representative Rosalie W. Taylor Mariam D. Johnson Viola B. Wynder Eddis J. Fidel Louise B. Whitby Erminnie Johnson Marvel D. Sunderland Norma Pezely Violet Wakley Barsalena R. Hatch Gladys C. Garner Yvonne Boyne June Davies Clara C. Christensen May Bowman Lottie R. Potter Aletha Gillins Marelda H. Cutler Geneva H. Pace Hannah B. Pitcher Phyllis Borders Maud J. DeVore Helen B. Evans Vera E. Clifford Marion Hugentobler Grace B. Larsen Della Chaplin Beula Nelson Janice G. Stewart Lucille F. Mason Cleo N. Dixon HON ( rR JTM ROLL — 1963 Relief' Society Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Idaho Falls East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Millcreek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello East Provo East Rigby East Sharon Edmonton El Paso Emigration Ensign Farr West Flagstaff Florida Franklin Fresno Fresno East Garden Grove Garfield Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee EnrollSubscriptions ment No. | Pet. 443| 433] 98 407; 368; 90 973 | 842 |) 67 573| 623 | 109 470} 526} 112 686; 668) 97 782| 741; 95 525| 531] 101 796| 7784 98 788! 705! 90 608 | 112 568 | 92 649 | 97 621} 99 729 | 101 393 | 107 458 | 90 548 | 95 1050 | 106 684 | 96 423 | 79 694 | 111 834 | 102 343 | 88 293 | 78 402 | 96 230 | 76 1307 | 141 592 | 87 618 | 97 545 615 670 629 719 367 510 580 987 710 538 627 817 389 377 417 303 930 683 637 Magazine Representative Marba Snow Deane Call Elizabeth E. Steed Sarah Owens LaVenna S. Cook Ethel M. Lemons Fairie K. Sessions Elva M. Brown Doris N. Barney Katherine W. Eckenbrecht Geneva Cluff Grace K. Meadows Eva J. Slick Myrtle Burtenshaw Wanda Kelly Helen Johnson Maud Taylor Bentley Sarah K. McKay Pearl L. Whitney Bertha H. Palmer Nellie M. Freeman Vera M. Williams Edna P. Lemmon Sarah Jean Stokes Muriel Welton Naida M. MclInelly Dorma P. Barton Edythe M. Fairbanks Viola Gold Marjie Barrus MAY 1964 w oo wW Brigham City Brisbane Burbank Burley Butler Butte Cache Calgary Cannon Canoga Park Canyon Rim Carbon Cascade Casper Cassia Cedar Cedar West Cheyenne Chicago Chicago South Clearfield Cleveland Columbia River Columbus Concord Corvallis Cottonwood Covina Craig Cumorah Dallas Davis Denver Denver West Deseret 112 100 130 109 / 102 103 103 102 103 107 Hilda R. Forrest Elsie E. Orth Joy Earl Virginia F. Nichols Gladys R. Loveless Afton Larsen Whitworth Norma Thompson Thelma Thompson Elsie Duehlmier Ann Whelan Ruth Rushforth Gertrude M. McCourt Mabel Collins Donna R. Thatcher Valoy Casperson Eva B. Webster Laurel L. Hulet Vera B. Gutscher Vilda Page Virginia B. Warner Ruby R. Taylor Ruth A. Laney Agnes G. Hill Luise Myers June S. Castle Sigfrid H. Person — Betty Gene Bagley Gladys I. Barker Nellie J. Crosby Margaret G. Stoner Leona Tillman Marie S. Lloyd Katherina Belmain Carolyn R. Derrick Eddys B. Barben Grand Junction Granger Granger North Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville Great Falls Greensboro Gridley Hayward Highland Hillside Holladay Honolulu Houston Humboldt Huntington Park Hyrum Idaho Idaho Falls Inglewood Juab Juarez Kanab Kansas City Kaysville Kearns Klamath Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Lansing Las Vegas Las Vegas North 478 389 537 628 673 868 567 370 346 785 477 589 1081 803 575 295 248 713 762 460 588 630 545 105 514 521 629 532 626 646 512 449 406 Ta 673 106 97 87 110 98 108 83 97 75 99 99 106 90 108 85 88 88 185 86 98 107 133 101 97 87 99 78 76 81 94 104 107 86 129 98 Irma Purnell Viola M. Johnson Ella H. Larson Jane Henry Lythia Street Adell Overly Abbie K. Paskett Glenna MacDonald Ruby L. Braddoch Vera Allred Rose Winkel Lucille M. Larsen Leone G. Smith Hazel B. Aldous Michiye Kanashiro Ida B. Sneider Della Monson Rachel Liston Elsie B. Poppleton Elizabeth L. Hogan Verna Hoopes Edith Pew Zoe P. Gibson Fannie B. Hatch Vauna L. Covington Venna T. Whitbeck Adelia Rushforth Fern G. Nielsen Marion Sander Hilda W. Cherrington Magda Potter Orba B. Bunot A. Lucille Ranney Eloise Leavitt Vaun S. Klingonsmith MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1963 384 Relief Society Layton Lehi Leicester Lethbridge Lewiston Liberty Logan Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Lyman Malad Maricopa Melbourne Mesa Mesa South Miami Midvale Millard Millcreek Milwaukee Minidoka Minnesota Missoula Moapa Mojave Monterey Bay Montpelier Monument Park EnrollSubscriptions ment 979 715 280 656 344 778 603 630 805 665 337 560 597 905 386 1085 568 427 820 653 520 347 750 447 524 311 547 268 839 536 Monument Park West 688 No. 809% 554% 214 569 262% 879 552 735% 680 630 369 441 618 1018 324% 1115% 585 323 660 523 5402 326 785 347 474 330 759 245 743 559 588% Pet. 83 78 76 87 76 113 92 117 85 95 110 79 104 113 84 103 103 76 81 80 104 94 105 78 91 106 139 91 89 104 86 Magazine Representative Bernice S. Earl Rosa M. Ashton Glenda M. Orr Beulah Manser ReNae B. Larsen Luella L. Birrell Eva L. Bernston Erma Halls Marva N. Ralph Doris W. Clark Roma Jardine Vera Hutchison Maude Y. Jensen Muriel Freeman Teresa E. Harrison Julia N. Kerby Myrna Skousen Marion H. Madsen Hazel Anderson Leah D. Wood Martha J. H. Matern Carol Jach Lova Taylor Barbara G. Toomer Betty Jean Stahl Geneve R. Swapp Alice Bundies Lilly B. Lovejoy Lola McCammon Ruth B. Parkinson Patricia S. Lowder Relief Society Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Orange County Palmyra Palo Alto Palomar Panguitch Park Parleys Parowan Pasadena Philadelphia Phoenix Phoenix North Phoenix West Pikes Peak Pioneer Pocatello Pomona Portland Portland West Portneuf Potomac Provo Puget Sound Raft River Raleigh Redding Redondo Redwood EnrollSubscriptions ment 816 656 695 713 684 675 308 497 783 529 389 848 409 639 436 434 387 614 480 446 566 455 519 406 530 491 186 227 360 530 262 No. 798 612 794 676 732% 570 338 490 781% 564 290 853 351 800 491 504 361 485 539 510 629 408 535 409 548 462 178 182 299 644 276 Pet. 98 93 114 95 107 84 110 99 100 107 75 101 86 125 113 116 93 79 (112 114 111 90 103 101 103 94 96 80 Magazine Representative Donna B. Lewis Verneta Larson Cleo K. Hales Ruth M. Clark Eleanor D. Olsen Noreene R. Burke Amaretta H. Groves Mary H. Simkins Pearl E. Rohde Genevieve M. Lewis Mary L. Stubbs Zelma McCune Pauline Bishop Alva Knight Zina S. Coates Geraldine S. Slaven Bertha P. Fox Rura J. Woodall Alice Brandt Nora Perdue Alice D. Shepard Arelie Reznick Lottie M. Dewey Susan Roberts Deseret Bullock Selna Fern Burbidge Ann Nye Myrtle M. Dixon Maxine Hansen Nedra R. Stott Minnie W. Herrin MAY 1964 w& ee Ww Morgan Moroni Mt. Graham Mt. Jordan Mt. Logan Mt. Ogden Mt. Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Napa Nebo Nevada New Jersey New Orleans New York North Box Elder North Carbon North Carolina North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden — Oklahoma 380 386 699 527 192 680 611 645 930 951 493 653 444 397 355 455 452 596 399 767 825 798 284 698 518 700 466 451 473 648 604 492 780 723 370 298 356 757 544 751 580 652 510% 763 900 547 598% 388 386% 365 387 507 459% 340 678 773% 770% 305 679% 458 538 481 365 501 570 618 513 819 714 315 78 92 108 103 95 85 107 79 82 95 111 92 87 97 103 85 112 ii 85 88 94 97 107 97 88 ie 103 81 106 88 102 104 105 99 85 Romona T. Dickson Betty A. Cook Flora John Norma G. Erickson Elaine Passey Iona Hazen Alice W. Malstrom Jeanette L. Nelson Lois Madsen Ida Cafferty LaVaun L. Allen Leona S. Crouch May Probert Beth S. Robison Gloria Dawn Phillips Thyra Stoddard Sue Kapp Parthenia H. Rhead Katherine L. Bailey Helen W. Barber Lucy Bingham ReNeen S. Andrews Sara Fisher Myrtle B. Park Patricia H. Dana Genniel B. Watson Lillian Bulman Clarissa J. Sorensen Mildred H. Sagers Lola B. Senstra Kathryn D. Mullikin Marian Mathewson LaVon B. Johnson Chloe F. Summerill Irva Epperson Reno Reno North Reseda Rexburg Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside Riverton Roosevelt Rose Park Roy Sacramento St. George St. George East St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salmon River Salt Lake San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East San Diego South San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Jose West San Juan San Leandro San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Sandy 466 | 427 573 712 721 848 441 658 497 567 861 581 710 484 532 510 585 324 200 772 838 818 359 478 701 451 811 485 454 720 439 561 201 666 555 481 428 632 862% 644 911 416 610 480 459 746 529 680 473 525% 499 673 346 182 725 823 937 394 477 719 416 936 400 454 683 413 480 176 620 465 103 100 110 121 89 107 94 93 97 81 87 91 96 98 99 98 115 107 91 94 98 115 110 100 103 92 115 83 100 95 94 86 88 93 84 Doris Young Georgia H. Samuelson Wanona Mordue Mary K. Welker Agnes Merkley Ora Stallings Margie P. Peterson Isabelle F. Sugden Blanche B. Densley Eva Percival Beverley L. Lundstrom Valois H. Bangerter Adelle M. Gorsch Sylva Graf Agnes S. Pickett Utahna L. Butler Nira P. Lee Margaretha Evans Sarah Heist Hudlow Frances L. Kooyman Naomi B. Mansfield Deon Phelps Lorraine E. Sharpe Ethel M. Burningham Elva Kershaw Gertrude P. Terry Ethel Martin Elaine C. Hewett Beverly A. Gifford Georgan H. Burtenshaw Mary C. McDonald Hazel Haynie Isabel H. Jurinjak Ruby Elwood Louise R. Neff MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1963 386 Relief Society Ana Barbara Maria Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Scottsdale Seattle Sevier Sharon Shelley Smithfield Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Cottonwood South Davis South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake South Sanpete South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Santa Santa Santa Enroll-| Subscriptions ment 409 490 Ae 806 574 407 369 863 869 549 830 752 763 709 776 409 512 660 456 791 562 469 807 480 432 376 695 523 691 704 946 No. 384 | 500 237 847 582 348% 447 971% 622% 775 744 696 453 493 596 569 1652 476 514 650 378 418 375 682 414 639 724% 918% Pet. 94 102 109 105 101 86 401 | 109 784%| 91 891% | 103 81 117 83 102 105 90 111 96 90 125 209 85 110 81 79 97 100 98 79 93 103 97 Magazine Representative Ethel Blood Colleen M. Dial Louise Newbold Helen G. Hanson Verna F. Baldwin Ella H. Sandstrom Anna Lee Gooch Dorothy C. Newman Manetta Hansen Addie G. Edwards June L. Walton Neta T. Miles Lucilia S. Peterson Meda P. Hupp Agnes D. Cox Nila J. Stucki Anna V. L. Lindman Faye N. Blood Alice Moss Amelia Dellenbach Hazel Goodwin Hannah Dietrich Iris D. Anderson Vera Smith Martha A. Lambert Maud B. Post Dora L. Otten Beulah Edwards Donetta Anthon Leta Coffman Nellie J. Ehlers IR HONO Relief Society Teton Timpanogos Tooele Toronto Torrance Tucson Tulsa Twin Falls Uintah Union University West Utah Uvada Valley View Vancouver Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Washington Terrace Wayne Weber Weber Heights Weiser Wells West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello West Sharon West Utah Whittier Wichita ROLL — 196: => > Enroll-, Subscriptions ment | No. | Pet. 540 916 519 527 508 602 309 az 504 604 779 637 316 676 322 521 415 814 604 406 342 748 628 619 916 754 659 664 648 509 729 526 229 520 | 96 811 | 89 498 | 96 581 | 110 616 | 121 613 | 102 937 | 77 1041 | 107 455%) 90 628%| 104 695 | 89 567 | 89 313 626% 252 Magazine Representative Bertha Gillette Velma Gillman Alice Walton Ruth Florence Rennie Ivy Higdon Belva Jones Beverly Johnson Lavella Pace Erma B. Taylor Mar Jean Westerfield Maud W. Johnson Lavern B. Singleton Mae T. Hall Dorie N. Walton Edna M. Mitchell Cassandra L. Waddoups Pearl Hartzell Ruby Price Hicken Rubye D. Mikesell Edna B. Goodliffe Ruth Taylor Gonda DeBoer Alma M. Peterson Edna Hardy Gertrude Fullmer Edith Coleman Lucille C. Hales Virginia B. Anderson Alta Holmes Ethel S. Taylor Nola L. Stubbs Melba J. Huff M. Marcella Meador MAY 1964 387 Summit 373 Sydney 360 Taber 407 Tacoma 429 Tampa 351 Taylor 735 Taylorsville 616 Temple View 711 Relief Society ment Alaskan-Canadian 490 California 273 Canadian 552 Central Atlantic States 518 Central States 487 East Central States 1320 Eastern Atlantic States 743 Eastern States 388 Florida 671 Great Lakes 148 320 367 425 372 294 748 542 850 No. 433 311 86 102 104 87 84 102 88 120 EnrollSubscriptions Pet. 88 114 Clara C. Copley Marion Parton Delves Joan S. Anderson Ruth E. Fowler Aretta L. Booth Lauretta S. Dahl Marjorie E. Coats Mabel E. Snow Wilford Wind River Winder Woodruff Yakima Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park MISSIONS ON HONOR ROLL—lil Relief Society Magazine Representative Leola G. Durrant Midene McKay Anderson Caroline Willey Lee Pitcher Rella Burch White Norma J. Furnell Nyla Morgan Helen Hatch Zelma R. West Ollie Hutchinson Reva Mickelsen Gulf States Irish New England North Central States Northern States Northwestern States Southern Australian Southern States Southwest British Texas West Central States Western States 678 200 566 610 274 885 683 319 409 963 EnrollSubscriptions ment 890 tay 970 601 554 813 554 806 389 455 535 - 390 702% 195 526 721 217 873 605 355 432 No. 726 171 928 667 549 812 501 639 291 389 511 452 Pet. Lila F. Madsen Carol Fisher Charlottie B. Poulton Gladys K. Groll Leah E. Koelling Leola Beddes Phebe Maxwell Effie Nowland Pearl W. Stratton Magazine Representative Marie C. Richards Sandra M. Covey Alberta S. Baker Carmen L. Dahlgren Ira Mae Palmer Eva Mertlich Edna M. Ord Lavon Sturges Elaine B. Curtis Shirley Underwood Laura C. Horne Carroll Thorpe MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1963 The Right Key Luella Foster WHEN John Burroughs once visited the Mammoth Cave of Kentucky, he marveled, as many have, at the echoing rocks around him. When the guide called out, in his heavy bass voice, the sound reverberated, but when John Burroughs tried, he could not strike the right note and the rocks were dumb. After several trials, when only flat, dead sounds reechoed, a beautiful sound, as of wild, sweet violins was heard. At last he had found the right key and the rocks had resounded like the strings of a harp. How many of us often fail to strike the right key and fail to obtain the response that we are striving for. This may apply to so many things: to our families at home, especially our children; to our classes; to all our associates. Sometimes, the correct approach is more important than we realize. Establishing a suitable background first is usually necessary. We must find the right key before the desired returns can be expected. Most of us have learned to practice this in our daily contacts. At least, we realize the need for it. We know that we obtain the best response when we have used the magic key. It may be one of many virtues, but I believe that consideration of others encompasses them all: living the Golden Rule, doing unto others as we would be done by. It doesn't cost us anything to be polite, to be kind, to show appreciation, to be helpful, or a dozen other qualities. The life of Jesus shows us what he used for the magic key. By a constant study of the scriptures, we, too, may always hope to have it. Whom Should | Seek? Blanche Briggs | asked a friend's pardon for a mistake I made... But the seed was planted. I asked a loved one's forgiveness for a wrong I had done, but the seed in the furrow was deep. I pondered long to make amends, but to no avail. So I prayed to my Heavenly Father for guidance and comfort. Joy and comfort and a peaceful mind were given me. Who can deny there is a Supreme Being? Dear Lord, bless those who have not contact with the Holy Spirit and cannot see the truth before it is too late. 388 r | des — t ween \ "-_ pen) \ \ \ FROM THE FIELD av = a) at General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker ] submitted for publication in this department should be sent through Relief Society presidents. Ty Ha book wt dr tri t See regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and ions RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES ret Northeast British Mission Relief Society Conference August 10, 1963 reports: Naomi D. Thorn, President, Northeast British Mission Relief Society, "In our August conference, we shared a day of knowledge, mixed with talents. Sister Esther Harmer showed us new ideas in bread and roll making. Our spiritual appetites were filled as the previews of the year's lessons were highlight of our day's activities. Sister Jean Law demonstrated quilt making, which is a new idea for our English saints. 390 presented. 'A stitch in time saves nine' could have been our theme for the words from our leaders and sisters of the various districts renewed our desire to serve and share our Relief Society with others." Musical numbers and inspiring NOTES FROM THE FIELD North Weber Stake (Utah) Homemakers' Talent Festival September 13, 1963 Ward work meeting leaders and stake work meeting leaders grouped around display tables of articles made in Relief Society work meetings, left to right: Esther Dance, West Weber Ward; Elaine Wade, Warren Ward; Opal Hammer, Taylor Ward; JoAnne Wilson, West Warren Ward; Lillian Thompson, Ogden Forty-sixth Ward Work Director Counselor; Dorothea Douglas, Ogden Sixteenth Ward; June Timmreck, Wilson Ward; Chloe Sessions, Ogden Third Ward; Martha Vaughn, Ogden Tenth Ward; Bertha Hadley, stake work meeting leader. Gladys P. Wayment, President, North Weber Stake Relief Society, reports: "We held a very successful Talent Festival, September 13, 1963. A special feature was the display of articles made in Relief Society work meetings. On display were many beautiful quilts, rugs, knitted and crocheted articles, pictures, wall plaques, and paintings; interesting conversation pieces; a group of madeover articles; antiques and heirlooms, including treasured pieces of china, antique furniture, shawls, and clothing. "From The Relief Society Magazine, we chose cookie recipes, from which many varieties of cookies were made by the wards, and these were served with sherbet, as refreshments for the occasion. Printed booklets, containing the recipes of all the different cookies, were presented to all those who attended. An interesting display was a welfare table, showing a year's supply of food for one individual, with literature and information on storage available to everyone. In the foyer was a festival of learning on parade, where lovely displays of all the lesson departments, music, and the Magazine were featured. As our festival was held through the late afternoon and the evening, many members of the Priesthood attended with the sisters. They expressed themselves as pleased with the accomplishments of the Relief Society. We were most honored to have Sister Louise W. Madsen of the General Board attend the festival. This was one of the most outstanding and best attended events we have held, and we were very pleased with the efforts of all the wards." 391 MAY 1964 Northwestern States Mission, Mid-Columbia District Indian Articles on Display at '+: Friendship Day and Homemakers' Fair, The Dalles, Oregon, September 12, 1963 Verna Geneal L. Wood, President, Northwestern States Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Mid-Columbia District of the Northwestern States Mission sponsored a Friendship Day and Homemakers' Fair. The women's auxiliaries of other churches, and other women's groups in the area were invited to attend. Displays were made of Indian artifacts, painting, flower arrangements, ceramics, genealogy, Christmas suggestions, babies' world, toys, arts and crafts, quilts and pillows, fascinating foods, and partytime. "During the afternoon demonstrations were given on different types of parties, cake decorating, and homemade soap. A movie on figure flattery was shown before the fashion show of homemade clothing. Punch and cookies were served during the afternoon. Approximately one hundred women attended the function, and the reports from these women were most gratifying. The MidColumbia District is composed of branches at The Dalles, Oregon; Glendale, Klickitat, White Salmon, and Stevenson, Washington. It covers an area of about one hundred miles, and has 129 Relief Society members. The district officers are: President Laurel Scholes; Education Counselor Farris Jolley; Work Director Counselor Vonda Emmett; Secretary-Treasurer Velma Page; music director Lucille Harshburger." Southwest British Mission, First Singing Mothers Chorus Organized In Cornwall, July 1963 Front row, left to right: Thelma Lashmore; Maureen Paddy; Gladys Hailey; Evelyn Bunny.. Second row, left to right: Vera Butler (missionary-director); Annie Miners; Nettie Roberts; Else Wall; Gyneith Thomas; Rahil Harris. Back row: left to right: Joy Bone; Elizabeth Harvey; Monica Webb; Emma Lou Webb (missionary); Anne Webb; Joyce Deste; Veoma Done (missionary and district board member). Elaine B. Curtis, President, Southwest British Mission Relief Society, reports: "Since the organization of this chorus, the sisters have been called upon to sing several times for various occasions within the mission. They sang for a Relief Society leadership meeting and genealogical convention held in Plymouth, England, traveling more than 150 miles by rail, bus, and car, and paying their own expenses." Indianapolis Stake (Indiana) Visiting Teacher Convention, October 12, 1963 Left to right, front row: Marguerite Oniones, Work Director Counselor; Joan Griesemer, Education Counselor; Beverly Ferguson, President. Sister Ferguson reports: "A wonderful time was had by the sisters who attended the visiting teacher convention, October 12, 1963, the theme of which was 'Love.' The convention was highlighted by words of wisdom and encouragement from the Relief Society advisor Elder Vern Hobson. "Relief Society pins were awarded to Marian Hobson, in appreciation for her fifty-six years of active service, and to Ethel Buttons, eighty-one years old, for being the oldest active visiting teacher in the stake. The centerpieces, made by the wards and branches, portraying love of service, home, Relief Society, education, neighbors, country, God, activity, music, virtue, beauty, and visiting teaching helped to make an already delicious luncheon even more delightful. We were made more aware of the importance of visiting teaching from the lighter side by the skit 'If the Shoe Fits, Wear It,' and songs entitled 'Excuses' and 'Go, Go, Go and Teach.' "The sweet spirit of love was present throughout the convention, which gave each sister a stronger determination to fulfill her responsibilities as a visiting teacher." 392 Na gran e 14% & MAY 1964 Maricopa Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present Music for Inter-Faith Social '"'Meet My Neighbor,'' October 25, 1963 At the right, front row, chorister Nathal Fuller; at the left in the back row, Alta Standage, organist; Goddess of Liberty, Verna Randall. Mildred B. Jarvis, President, Maricopa Stake Relief Society, reports: "Members of the Maricopa Stake Relief Society had an opportunity to become better acquainted with both nonmember neighbors, and also those members of the Church who have not been active, at an Inter-Faith Social 'Meet My Neighbor,' held October 25, 1963. Members of each ward were invited to bring friends and neighbors to the stake program. Invitations, together with a brief explanation of the Relief Society program, were sent to service and cultural clubs, and to the wives of city and school officials. "The very stimulating and informative program presented the origin and purpose of Relief Society, with emphasis on service. The script was written by Nedra Lundberg. Music for the program was furnished by the Maricopa Stake Singing Mothers, who had joined with other stakes of Arizona to sing at the October General Conference in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City. "One of the most impressive parts of the program was the display of handiwork made by the sisters of all the wards in the stake. This drew praise especially from the nonmembers who attended the presentation. An atmosphere of warmth and friendliness was set by the decor, with autumn colors and floral arrangements setting the theme. Stake board members and ward Relief Society presidents, who were serving as hostesses, wore name cards decorated with yellow chrysanthemums, tied with a single blue bow. Decorations on the refreshment tables in the cultural hall included dry arrangements in their natural coloring, with accents of gold. "The expressions of the guests and members, alike, reflected the spirit of neighborliness and sisterhood which prevailed throughout the social. Many hearts were touched and eyes opened to the rewarding experiences offered through the educational and work programs of Relief Society." New England Mission, Southern Maine Singing Mothers at ''Keynote Meeting" September 7, 1963 Ann N. Madsen, President, New England Mission Relief Society, reports: "He That Is Faithful Shall Be Made Strong' was the theme of the New England Mission Primary-Relief Society Conference. As each sister entered the Cambridge chapel she was given a name tag, a blue link printed with the words 'A Strong Link' to highlight the fact. That a chain is only as strong as its weakest link. "The Relief Society keynote meeting began at 12:30 p. M. After Sister Madsen had welcomed the sisters, a skit was presented by the mission officers called 'This Is New England. You Are There!' The props for this skit were royal blue curtains on either side of a regular door marked 'Your Sister Lives Here.' The voices in the skit came from 'all over New England,' but no one was seen to be speaking. The skit consisted of a 'before and after' series of events taken from real life here in New England, showing what Relief Society, in all its phases, can do to help the sisters, particularly those who sit behind closed doors and never see or hear from us. "Next the sisters moved into the cultural hall, where cake decorating, quilting, smocking, rug hooking, wreaths and trees made of white and dyed turkey feathers were being demonstrated and patterns were being ordered. During this time the sisters were encouraged to sit down and learn 'how' on the spot. Many beautiful displays, with clever bazaar ideas, were set up. All of the displays were linked together with large chain links in varied colors. "After the departments and class work, all reassembled in the chapel to hear and see an Inter-Faith Social demonstration featuring the Singing Mothers of the Southern Maine District. President Truman G. Madsen then gave inspired counsel, and the last forty-five minutes were spent in testimony bearing." 394 Western States Mission, Longmont (Colorado) Branch Presents Fashion Show September 26, 1963 At left: Mindi Dawn Fenton, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Darrell Fenton; right: Elnor Dagle, eighty-five, first president of Longmont Branch Relief Society, Hazel Davis, President, Western States Mission (Relief Society), reports an unusually interesting event in the Longmont Branch: "The fact that we can dress smartly and modestly without being extravagant was beautifully demonstrated with a show of ready-to-wear fashions, which included styles for children. Two of the outstanding models were little Mindi Dawn Fenton and Elnor Dagle, eighty-five. Sister Dagle presented the highlight of the show when she wore the ninety-year-old, handmade wedding gown pictured. "Preceding the style review, each of the class leaders presented a brief outline of the material to be covered in her department during the year. In this small branch, it is recognized that it is important to reach out to the inactive and nonmember sisters and acquaint them with Relief Society work. The attendance was extremely gratifying, and the success of the social has been reflected in the attendance and enthusiasm at weekly meetings. — "Among those who appeared and presented the program were: Cleta Fenton, President, Longmont Branch Relief Society; Regina Turner, Second Counselor; LaVonne Ward, Secretary-Treasurer; Dorothy Backman, work meeting leader; and LaDonna Plowman, whose lovely home was the setting for the program." 396 pe J CW Clusters of sweet I; Mg to throw back thej | bridal Wreath fronds, Ww; | Morning, T am glad that | have taken the to plant a bac yard &arden, just because. _ - It rained last night. ——— myself telling of the things we used to do When we were children, and I am Just as often asked if | Would like to 80 back to those days, J Sometimes think I would Would like to See a doll as Pretty as my pink and white hollyhock dolls with heir green Currant heads I would like to smell] anything as SWeet as Crushed mint that grew knee-high alon the creek bank Where I co Id Snuggle low and could not be found by the hunter of the "hide and seek" game, Would like to 89° with My older brothers and sisters, cach with 4 sunny sack and a lunc > to gather dried sticks from brush OF trees over jn the mill ¢] | "milk lane" to my childis €ars), the dried sticks to be used ¢. I would like to gath brus " and pb] Molasses mill, a black curra Oven, My grandfathey's lust tossed into the 397 Salt Lake City's newest handicraft shop! AND NOVELTY UO. 3002 So. State, Salt Lake City 15, Utah R Materials for satin fruit, ribbon flowers, liquid plastics, marble grapes, hat making and all other handicrafts. Write for free instructions and free catalog. UTAH CRAFT & NOVELTY C0. 3002 So. State, Salt Lake City 15, Utah WORLD'S FAIR TOURS 21 days — June 21 to July 11: World's Fair, Church historical places (does not include pageant). — 27 days — July 13 to August 8: World's Fair, Church historical places. Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also, Quebec and Montreal, Canada. — 24 days — July 23 to August 15: World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. If 16 days — July 25 to August 9 World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. AE All tours include: Show at Jones' Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway Show and a special event ticket at World's Fair, etc. Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 398 Memory Grace Barker Wilson There is a memory Defying time and place: Tall mountain tops that lean Against the high, blue space Of sky, where thunderheads Build up each summer noon. There is a canyon green, And meadows over-strewn With bluebells and wild flags. A little ice-cold stream Flows noisily along The middle of my dream. Summer Song Linnie F. Robinson The apple trees are dappled silver This afternoon of waning spring; The cherries hang in shining rows And all the birds have come to sing. The dahlias push up mighty shoots Where giadiolas knife the loam; And mountain shadows beckon me To follow if | chance to roam. | marvel that | view this day, New as when light was first unrolled; This morning's red and fiery shafts Turn evening lowlands into gold. And all around where | can see — Such beauty makes me sing a song; | hear it in the harp-like trees And in the grasses, lithe and long. We Pass But Once Catherine B. Bowles The evening shades had fallen And my long day's work was done. Was | a little better Than when my labors had begun? Had kindly words been spoken, Had a heart been filled with cheer, Had | lent a helping hand To my neighbors who live near — Helped them to seek for blessings Richly given from above? Then my life would be uplifted And | would share with them my love. For life holds such lovely things— My heart is grateful for the joy it brings. Shape of Time Thelma J. Lund Within these walls we kept Our treasure on shelves of time. Here in this room we slept, Waking to morning's climb. Though our shape of time be lost, Who will know or tell If the house, wind-whispering, mossed, Is ruin or citadel? Unsaid Words Zara Sabin There is no song that larks can sing, No perfume roses shed, That takes the place within our lives Of loving words, unsaid. JOIN OUR QUALITY TOURS TO THE HOLY LAND March and October BOOK OF MORMON LANDS April—June—Nov.—Jan.—Feb.—March CHURCH HISTORIC PLACES and HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July New York World's Fair — Daily Departures via Bus-Air-Train HAWAIll June and September EUROPE June Contact MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City 328-3161 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain Wes?'s first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles.39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.45 Over 1800 miles.87 600 to 1000 miles.54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Fot EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., $. L. C., Utah, 01. —=_— PESERET_['Pews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 399 400 Qa A ugpfililalires One Hundred Mrs. Lois Ann Stevens Tanner Brady Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Bell Felt Young Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Jane Roach Bowers, Burley, Idaho Mrs. Ella Georgina Keel Niemi Spanish Fork, Utah; Mrs. Anna Edling Wahlquist Mrs. Annie Wood Westover Salt Lake City, Utah Mesa, Arizona Ey Mrs. Agnes Mary Horsley Gubler Lund, Nevada Mrs. Rhoda Tanner Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Clark Judd Magrath, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Nancy Hammer Mathews Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth Barfuss Christensen a Logan, Utah Mrs. Mattie F. Pettis Allen Mrs. Catherine Carlson Johnson Van Nuys, California Ovid, Idaho 1 ~~ ran Mrs. Marie Parker Russell Ogden, Utah Mrs. Sorena J. Larsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Christina Wayment Ogden, Utah Mrs. Emma Butler Maxfield Mrs. Naomi Taylor Coon Bakersfield, California Magna, Utah Christie Lund Coles Her hands were smooth and delicate as light, Or daisies moving softly in the night; Or water lilies waxen in the sun. How many acts of love those hands have done. Her feet were never dressed for beauty's sake: She needed comfort shoes of special make. Her feet were sturdy feet, or seemed to be. How many miles those feet have gone for me. SACRED MUSIC | -s FOR LADIES | | AIR | | | I CHORUSES one room or your whole house ELECTRICALLY! | THREE Parr CONDITION *COME YE BLESSED OF | MY FATHER—Madsen..__.20 the proven way! Eo. FORTH IN THY NAME, I Whichever way you air condition electrically, j O LORD | GO-—Schumann woe. 20 | you'll enjoy these and many other advantages: ( | - jee! Oo oes Son tay Better.., cep better Enjoy Filtered air, ] soteeeGRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP l Now: New low rates for electricity for air | PEACE OF MIND—Stickles | conditioning or space heating in total electric omes, l iHEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn _ ae 25 If it's electric, it's better! I IN THY FORM—Madsen ao! | | UTAH POWER @ LIGHT Co -LET ALL MY LIFE BE I | MUSIC—Spross.30 a. LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT l | FOR JOY—Stephens 20 | | aLORD, GOD OF ouR r I FATHERS—Armbruster 25 | WORLD'S FAIR — APRIL -LORD'S PRAYER—Gates 20 TO OCTOBER — 1964 | -_ | MY REDEEMER LIVES—Gates 20 a Ge ee I oe cx:.. OMNIPOTENCE-—Schubert ___ 20 | There will be several tours to the l World's Fair including the Hill Use this 'ao as your | Cumorah Pageant. Music Sent on Approval MEXICO ar JUNE, 1964 DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South EUROPE — AUGUST, 1964 Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 | |! | aa digaiad, | | P t ic indicat | above ee cctv Uf HAWAII — MONTHLY { n Approva arge: | TOURS! |! 1 t CL) Money Enclosed Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East l ] Z | Daynes Masic P. O. Box 2065 | | Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — am 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 15 E. Ist South J Salt Lake City 11, Utah Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah NEW BOOKS FOR SPRING 1, THE FALLACY sy ston rDyer An interesting analysis and comparison of the doctrines of two churches the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and the Reorganized Church. Elder Dyer, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, brings scholarship and extensive knowledge to this masterly study. $2.95 2. AND THEY SHALL TEACH THEIR CHILDREN by Reed H. Bradford Using his professional knowledge together with his testimony as a Latter-day Saint, Dr. Bradford has written a book that is both a guide and inspiration to parents. $3.90 BERREREREREEERRREE TERRES CRE TRAS CREAR RA SRAS Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple T Deseret B Book | COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY I would like to receive books numbered --.-25 for which I enclose (cash, check, or money order) the full cost $ 0 0-2. Ene eee een cone oe'eo enes eee: J have an account, please charge -. Eal 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN INANE on cae eeeee cece renee eons oor eee 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA AddreSS ceececescecsweesesee leones cece ceeeecasen asst4 — ASS ———_———. EPa2——. Cityneue cnecccccenscccacesececcececocesececesecaee+secs: JS Siate, ------..<aggeonseeZip Code 2 spate Residents of Utah include 342% sales tax. RSM May a, Magaziie,.. Vaoeaees get ne 2a NumberS 8 3 June. 1964..-~ be iLessort Previ ews Volume ae: The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Hlustrations: /he SHadoufiald Shirley M. Howard Once earth Called to me, 'Be a tree, Be a tree."' Acorn—lI answered With a leaf, A stem, And a brief Root shooting down; Sending A young trunk Bending in the wind, And a New limb strong Enough for just a bird And a song. Lake Tahoe, California-Nevada Transparency by Lucien Bown Now | Have heard A thousand songs, Stirred In a thousand winds And a Thousand leaves Weave Through my Branches. My roots Lie deep And | keep Thinking That when One is tall The shadowfall Is long Upon An afternoon. Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Crater Lake, Oregon Photograph by Don Knight Dick Scopes Mary Scopes Let me congratulate on the beauty of the Magazine. The March number is a dream in color. I loved the article and pictures (on roses) by L. Paul and Dorothy Roberts. Claire Noall's cover is outstanding. The article on painting with glass was very interesting and very colorful. Thanks, also, for the nice spots. My poems have been given. I am thinking of having a series of full-page ones framed as keepsakes. Eva Willes Wangsgaard Ogden, Utah I have continued to enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much and always eagerly wait for the next issue to come. I especially was very thrilled to see the lovely cover of the February issue of the scenery of Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii. This is my birthplace, and this is where I first heard the gospel from my cousin during one of my summer vacations years ago. Ethel T. Kurihara President Luzon District Relief Society Southern Far East Mission I especially appreciated Alice Bailey's poem "Curled in Seed" in the March issue of the Magazine. It was full of beauty, as was Tom Elliott's color transparency of the Matterhorn. Leona Fetzer Wintch Manti, Utah As I read the article "Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!" in the March issue of the Magazine, by Margaret Russell, I was reminded of the closeness of my mother and sisters and am grateful for the sisterhood we have. Since I do not live close around my mother and sisters or sisters-in-law, I have more and more appreciated the sisterhood in Relief Society, and no matter where we have lived, Relief Society has brought this sisterhood to me. Our beloved Magazine shares this sisterhood with the dear members in many lands. Ida Mae F. Dahl Boise, Idaho I hope we will have more of the speech articles by Myrtle E. Henderson (March 1964). They are what we all need. Pearl H. Saunders Ogden, Utah I surely enjoyed the speech articles in the March Relief Society Magazine. I hope such articles will be continued. Mrs. Verna Ross Salt Lake City, Utah The article on speech (by Myrtle E. Henderson) in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine is much appreciated, and I hope the subject will be continued in future issues. Mrs. Opal Saunders Vale, Oregon I have just finished reading "Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!" by Margaret Russell in the March issue of the Magazine. As the mother of a family of five "little sisters," whose father is also a Wyoming schoolteacher, lt was like reading a forecast of the future. The whole Magazine each month is a gem. Kathleen Gregory La Grange, Wyoming I enjoy the Magazine very much. The lessons are wonderful. Living in the mission field, I think the Magazine means much more to us. Sylvia J. Harris Red Wing, Minnesota I love and enjoy the Magazine! The messages and stories are so inspiring. Bonnie S. Hansen Munich, Germany The Relief Society Magazine has meant many enjoyable hours of reading for my husband and myself. It has been helpful in many ways. The March issue is very beautiful, with its poems and pictures of flowers. Mrs. Frank Goodwin Wheeling, West Virginia The Relief Society Magazine VOLUME 51 JUNE 1964. NUMBER 6 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 404 Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay 406 Paul H. Dunn Appointed to the First Council of Seventy 408 You, Dear Friends Leone O. Jacobs 410 My English Textbook Martha Weyland Paulsen 422 Emily Dickinson—"Occupation—Keeps House" Laurel Ulrich 450 Annual Report for 1963 Hulda Parker General Features 402 From Near and Far 418 Editorial: The 134th Annual General Church Conference 420 In Memoriam—Gladys P. Young 421 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 460 Notes From the Field Hulda Parker 480 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out Hobbies: Gretchen Stratton Makes Prize-Winning Pillows; Anna Marie Richins—Expert in Handicraft, 430; Happiness in Flower Arranging, by Maude W. Howard, 431; "Parchment" Correspondence Cards, by Peggy Tangren, 436; Relief Society Silver Service, College Park Lesson Department - Preview for 1964-65 467 Theology—The Doctrine and Covenants Roy W. Doxey 401 The Shadowfall Shirley M. Howard Always the Moment, by Lael W. Hill, 420: Tide Turn, by Marjorie Newton, 424: Airborne Heritage, by Viola Ashton Candland, 449: Night, by Ida Elaine James, 477; Bird Song, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 478; One Year Old, by Christie Lund Coles, 479; The Secret, by Eleanor W. Schow, 479; Enchanted, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 480. 9, ee Sa a a HS Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIET Y of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 841] 1; Phone EMpire 4-251]; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 g year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, Payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew Promptly so that no copies Il be missed. Report change of address. At once, giving old and new address. Entered QS second-class matter February 18, 1914, to Emma Ray Riggs McKay June 23, 1964 AT this season of the year when summer is rich and beautiful upon the northern lands, and winter rests upon the southern hemisphere, the women of the Church in many lands extend birthday greetings to Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of our beloved Prophet, President David O. McKay. It is with rejoicing and sincere gratitude that the world-wide sisterhood, separated by mountains and oceans, yet united in the spirit of the restored gospel, pay tribute to the lovely woman who represents for them a worthy ideal of Latter-day Saint womanhood, which, with continuing devotion, they may strive to emulate. Realizing the ever-increasing complexity of life upon the earth today, and knowing full well the many voices that call out to women for their time, their energy, and their attention, the women of the Church are especially grateful that an example of wisdom, strength, serenity, and high purpose has been given them in the life of a truly great woman who has demonstrated the most important and far-reaching accomplishments of womanhood. Sister McKay has often said that she owes much of her fundamental attitudes, as well as her habits of persona! Discipline and performance to the training and example which her mother placed before her. These attributes, a heritage from her childhood home, Sister McKay has described as courage, cheerfulness, patience, affection, kindness, understanding, and homemaking ability. Each of these qualities has been magnified by Sister McKay, and all have been given in generous measure to her family, her friends, and to the women of the Church. Courage has been consistently manifest in her life, particularly on those many and prolonged occasions when her husband has been traveling in far places, carrying abroad the gospel message. At such times the quiet courage of Sister McKay was so deeply felt by the children in the home that they have said, in later years, that it seemed, through the courage and faith and prayers of their mother, that the influence and love and protection of their father was actually present in the home. Many of the responsibilities that come to women as mothers and homemakers, and in their relationships with other women, are greatly enhanced by the buoyant quality of cheerfulness that minimizes present difficulties and sheds a glowing light upon the morning that is sure to come. Such has been the pervading light and radiance in the presence of Sister McKay. Her patience has long been admired and appreciated by her family and by all her associates — a patience that has been upheld by enduring faith and the belief that when one has chosen well a lifetime pattern, then patience and endurance are part of that pathway. Truly it may be said that the desire and ability to give love and affection are rare gifts, and most worthy of cultivation. Affection and love for those near and dear to Sister McKay and for the women of the Church and all others, have characterized the days and the years of the life of Sister McKay, exemplifying her own belief that ''life's finest blessing is the ability to find joy in doing something for someone else.'' Her innate kindness seems to spring from a desire to help women to attain some of the rich blessings which have graced her own life. The making and keeping of a home have been to Sister McKay a sacred trust, and the rearing of'children a privilege and a blessing. With President McKay she has traveled to many parts of the world, always taking with her ''a message of peace and a prayer for the women of the world to make the best possible homes for their children." ) For her eighty-seventh birthday, the women of the Church extend to Sister McKay their love and appreciation and their wishes for her health and happiness. 404 Pau. Harold Dunn, a California educator, was appointed to the First Council of Seventy at the Monday morning session of the 134th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 6, 1964, the closing day of Conference. His call fills the vacancy in the Council of Seventy occasioned by the death of Elder Levi Edgar Young, in December 1963. Elder Dunn was born in Provo, Utah, April 24, 1924, the second of three sons of Joshua Harold and Geneve Roberts Dunn. The family moved to California in 1939, where Elder Dunn continued his education. He received a B. A. Degree in religion from Chapman College in 1953, and the next year he was awarded a Master's Degree in education from the University of Southern California. He received his doctorate in educational administration from the same institution in 1959. At the time of his appointment to the Council, he was an active seventy in the Downey Third Ward of Huntington Park Stake. 406 Paul H. Dunn He became associated with the Church Education System in 1952, as a seminary teacher in the Los Angeles area, and as viceprincipal of the seminaries in that city in 1953-54. Later, he became assistant supervisor of the seminaries of Southern California and served with great success in that capacity until 1956, when he was appointed director of the University of Southern California Institute of Religion. When called to be a General Authority, Elder Dunn was coordinator of the Institutes of Religion of Southern California. In this work, he has directed the activities of nine fulltime and _ forty-one part-time institutes, with an estimated enrollment of 2,500 students. His area of supervision included the institutes from Fresno, south to the Mexican border. Through his training and experience as a counselor and friend of the youth of the Church, and by his enthusiasm, friendliness, spiritual qualities, and great energy and ability, Elder Dunn has inspired and directed thousands of young people into the ways of usefulness and high endeavor in Church and community' activities. He has been untiring in his efforts to encourage young people to remain active in the Church organizations and to increase . X %, "of?, f [as | ELDER PAUL H. DUNN AND HIS FAMILY 3 i Elder Paul H. Dunn and his wife Jeanne Cheverton Dunn, with their daughters: Kellie (front, left); Janet (standing at the left), and Marsha (at the right). Their understanding of the gospel so that their attitudes and understanding of the gospel will enable them to be effective missionaries and exemplars of the teachings and principles of Latter-day Saint ideals.. His participation in athletics, (baseball, golf, football, basketball and track), and sports during his high school and college years has enabled him to influence many young men into taking part in such programs sponsored by the Church. Elder Dunn's maternal grandtather W. D. Roberts, and the erandfather's brother E. L. Roberts, who for many years was head coach and athletic director at the Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, were well known athletes and provided Elder Dunn with his heritage of interest. Elder Dunn's father passed away in December 1960. His mother and brothers and their families are living in California. Elder Dunn married Jeanne Alice 'Cheverton, whom he converted to the Church. They were sealed in the Arizona Temple, and are the parents of three daughters: Janet Carolyn, sixteen; Marsha Jeanne, fourteen, and Kellie Colleen, four. 407 Leone O. Jacobs Former Member, General Board of Relief Society thirty be about the right time?" Immediately, a warm feeling came over me, the d brighter, and my Spirits rose perOne's friends are endowed with an amazing variety of temperaments and qualities of character, and each one adds much to life and makes of it an interesting 408 and joyous experience. There are the old friends and the new friends, the casual friends, and the close confidants,. Each fills 4 particular niche in one's life. Dear Mary seems always to be happy and full of wit. H er! To be in her presence is to have one's morale lifted Skyward. Always an optimist, burdens aplenty, though they are kept hidden from view. There js wasting precious time and effort on foolish endeavors. Dear Harriet! I am so grateful she is just the way she is. So big-hearted, so free from prejudice and criticism of others. I feel completely relaxed in her company. And so, each one holds a special place in my heart! For old friends I have great affection. I do not refer to old in point of years, but in the length of our association. These are my childhood friends, the friends with whom I attended school, whose lives are known to me and mine to them. They know my family background, my teachers, my weaknesses and strengths, our Church and community activities. I shall never lose interest in these whose lives have been so intimately interwoven with mine. It matters not how divergent our paths have been in the intervening years. "We grew up together," I announce proudly when introducing them to others. "We came from the same town."' How wonderful that as we grow older the events we shared in bygone days remain clear! Precious, vivid memories! THEN there are the new friends one makes from time to time. What a delight, what an unexpected pleasure is each one — an added gem in one's collection of blessings! To some we are immediately and mysteriously attracted, as if by a magnet. With such there need be no period of "setting acquainted." We are right away good friends. A choice experience it is to meet someone whose nature, we sense instinctively, will harmonize with our own! And what a happy prospect YOU, DEAR FRIENDS it is to realize that just any day we may meet some sweet person who will be a joy to us forever. For there is no quota on friendships. We may go on and on gathering them into our familiar circle. The casual friends also bring happiness into our lives. How pleasant to meet acquaintances on the street or at a social function, to receive a warm smile, a handshake, and a "How do you do? So nice to see you." One feels identified with his fellow beings and at one with the world. Then there are the friends one makes while serving in the Church. These are no doubt some of the choicest associations of all. How could individuals become closer than by being partners in the work of the Lord? There is so much in common; one's goals and standards are the same. One's best is expected and one's best is willingly given. The spirit of love is dominant, and a_ bond of fellowship develops that may last throughout eternity. And, lastly, there are the special few who are one's tried and true confidants, to whom one's innermost thoughts are confided, and in whom one puts his complete trust and love. These are as we imagine the Biblical friendship between David and Jonathan. Every person needs one or more such close friends. To be able to talk over one's problems with such a friend is of inestimable value, a stabilizing and sustaining influence. And so, truly grateful I am for friends — the new, the old, the tried, the true, and the ones who are to be. God bless them every one! 409 MY ENGLISH TEXTBOOK the Prophet Joseph Smith. This was the light that led them and made it possible to endure all things. True, I had no wilderness to fight, no mob violence to meet. But there were other battles to be won, a new language, to meet the challenge of life away from home and parental guidance in a strange land. Soon I found myself looking forward to the evenings when I could sit and read The Relief Society Magazines. They became my friends, my counselors, my advisors. They were helpers upon whose aid and wisdom I could rely. They were good company and kept me from feeling so alone. The M agazine met so many of my needs. Some day I wanted to marry, have a family, be a good homemaker, besides learning about the gospel through the Magazine. Here were tested recipes, sewing suggestions, budget planning. Reading from this book I came upon this familiar statement: "The women of yesterday thought and thought and then spent, while the women of today spend and spend and then think." I remember the first time I made corn-bread from a recipe in the Magazine. I really felt proud and happy, when the lady I worked for said it was very good. "Did you bring this recipe from Sweden?" I had never heard of cornbread before. I was so thrilled when she asked me for a copy. I, writing English! Many times when in doubt what to have for dinner, she would ask: "Seen any good recipes in the Magazine lately?" If someone should ask me from what department of The Relief Society Magazine did I get the most help in learning a new language, I could not truthfully name one in particular. Each one filled my needs and gave me strength in so many ways. To me it has been a priceless privilege to become acquainted with the Relief Society Magazine at an early age. The Magazine helped me keep in touch with the Church and learn of its teachings. When attending the sacrament meetings, when I first came to Salt Lake City, it seemed everyone talked so fast. I had a hard time to follow the speaker. Not so with my Magazine. Here I could sit down and take time learning every word till I knew its meaning. Sometimes learning a new language can have its humorous sides. I remember the time I had tried a recipe from the Magazine, "Chicken a la King." One day as I was walking to my sister's, I walked by a house with a sign in the window, which said: "Chicken Pox." Chicken 4 la King, Chicken Pox, where was the difference? Anyway, it must be good and homemade, having a sign in the window. It would be much fun to surprise my sister with something good. After the sweet lady had explained to me what chicken pox was, we both had a good laugh. The Relief Society Magazine has introduced me to so many friends, many of them gone long ago. Their influence has been felt in my life. I never read the Magazine without feeling the love and sweet influence of the sisters who edit the Magazine. They have given me a well-balanced understanding of the important things in life. It has contributed to my spiritual growth. Within me has been born a desire to be a better mother, wife, and homemaker. I still fall short of my goal, but I hope I will continue to learn and improve with the help of my Heavenly Father. I like to bear my testimony to you of the truth of the gospel. I want to express the joy that I have in the privilege of living in this wonderful land. I know that God lives, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet, and there is not a doubt in my mind, but that David O. McKay is a true prophet of God. I am so grateful to my Heavenly Father for all the blessings he has showered upon me and mine. They are too numerous to mention and too wonderful to understand. I pray our Heavenly Father to strengthen us in all we attempt to do that is right and proper. May we take from the simple things at hand and build our happiness. May we glorify his name by living lives worthy of his blessings. I pray that I may always walk in humility and obedience before him. This I do humbly and in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. All THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY and a pink ribbon sash. I wore matching bows of ribbon on each of my two long braids. The three of us wore heavy ribbed long black cotton stockings, and black laced shoes. Papa, a bit restless in church, kept pulling at his collar and crossing and uncrossing his legs, much to the annoyance of Mama. When closing prayer was said, he wasted no time ushering us out to our waiting Lizzie. Mama barely had time for a few handshakes and words of greeting. Lizzie needed no coaxing today, just one twist on the crank handle and she purred like a kitten. Papa slid over the side and under the steering wheel. He adjusted the spark, took off the brake, pulled down the gas, and we were off at a moderate rate of speed, about fifteen miles per hour, waving goodbye to our friends. It always pleased Papa as he left our friends behind in their carriages and horses, staring after us. Down Main Street we went without making the usual turn for home. "Where are we going?" inquired Mama, as we passed by our street. "Oh, I thought you might like a little ride," said Papa. "We should have gone home first and changed our clothes," remarked Mama, not wanting to get dusty, and worrying about the breeze ruining her plumes. "We won't be long," said Papa, slowing down a little. It was such a lovely drive down past the depot, across the river bridge, and along the side of the hill. A short distance to the left, the dangerous river wound its way through pasture lands, and chattering magpies flew in and out the willows and bullberry bushes. On and on we went, thoroughly enjoying the scenery. Papa was always happy when escorting Lizzie around. Now and then a little breeze swayed the feathers on Mama's hat, and the sun played hide-and-go-seek through the lacy brim. I loved to watch the shadows dance about on her lovely face. The road was becoming more rough, and she held a little tighter to her hat to keep it from bobbing up and down. "Those look like sheep tracks along the hill, don't they?' inquired Mama. 'They sure do," replied Papa, "and not more than a day or two old." "T think we had better turn back, Ed. It's getting quite dusty," said Mama apprehensively. But Papa was busy scanning the hillside. Then, quite unexpectedly, Peter cried, ""Look out, Papa, some sheeps!"' Papa slammed on his brake just in time to avoid hitting an old ewe and two baby lambs coming onto the road. The sudden force threw Mama against the windshield, brushing her forehead and bending her hat. Her hat pins pulled loose and with them came strands of long black hair. Papa's derby flew off his head and rolled 413 il], luckily Catching in a bush before reachj he river The frightened Sheep took off up the hil] aS Pana ent o Lizzie'. Side, to chase after his hat. He came back, brushing ff dir and try ng to push out the ents. Mama On the point f tea "Just look My new hat!" C cried, More conc Tned about i than the bruise her Orehead, "7 CW We should have 0ne home irst,"' Silently, Papa adjusted his hat e€gs bac " Cranked up Lizzie, threw his k over the side and Started down the road, trying to keep out of the deep Wagon-whee] ruts, "Must have been Some stra TMM the Sheepherd. Sometimes 4n old ewe Will hide under brush to lamb, and if the erders don't notice her, She's left behind," Sa a, But around an d let's at. B lying under a gs out, except Mama, to loo K at the litt] ° move, but Just looked Sa a eh it home With ys?" P I begged lease, Papa." Y you don't 1 Your mother " In her Opinion there ur nice Clean Lizzi la smelly Sheep, But wi Sympathy for the l€ Was definitely Ith three children feeling SO much little lamb, 5 C gave her Consent. "Where Will you keep jt" She asked mmediately € assured her we Would build jt a little en. "Don't feel ba f it doesn't live," Cautioned Papa. "Tt's pretty weak, and we might have trouble feeding tae 414 THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY Gently he picked up the lamb and laid it on the floor in the back of the car. WE were about to start back when we heard a baa, baa, coming from a clump of bushes near a fence. It sounded like a cry for help. Papa, who was in the process of cranking Lizzie, looked toward Mama, then took off down the slope to investigate. "Stay in the car, children, I don't want you to get your clothes dirty," ordered Mama. "Addie!" called Papa, "bring me that white rag under the front seat, this sheep has a broken leg." Reluctantly Mama stood up from the seat, so I could pull out the rag. The sheep was caught in the fence, and in its struggle to get free had somehow broken its leg. Only too happy to be of help, I started on the run down the hill, and as is so often the case on a hillside, I tripped on a stump of sagebrush, which caused my downfall. I arose with the knees out of my stockings, and skin off my knees. "Why don't you watch where you're going?" was Papa's remark of sympathy as I limped up to him with tears running down my cheeks, and handed him the rag. "Now hand me that stick," he said, pointing to one just out of his reach. "Now grab hold of his hind legs while I put on a splint!" Even though the animal was lying flat on its side with Papa astride it, I had all I could do to hang onto those kicking legs. With this act of mercy accomplished, Papa suggested we get back to Lizzie. I lifted up my blood-stained petticoats from my bleeding knees, and followed behind. "Addie, what makes you so clumsy? Just look at yourself. All we need is another stray sheep and the day will be completely ruined," groaned Mama. I took my place on the back seat, being careful not to step on the little lamb. My knees hurt, but I fought back the tears and said nothing. Unfastening my garters, I rolled down the kneeless stockings to ease the pain. No one cared how much I was suffering. "Are you going to leave the poor sheep, Papa?" James asked. "The coyotes will get it, Papa. Don't leave it for the coyotes to get," whimpered Peter. "We have all the sheep we are going to have!" said Mama. '"He'll be good, Mama." Another baa, baa, from the sheep, and James begged, "He wants to go with us, listen! I don't want to leave him for the coyotes." Little Peter began to cry. "Stand up a little, will you, Bess? Let me get that piece of rope from under the seat," said Papa to Mama. "Surely you don't intend to put another sheep in with us?" she asked, rising obediently. With rope in hand he headed for the helpless animal. It had occurred to him that, come winter, it would make good mutton. Why leave it for the coyotes when we could enjoy eating it? 415 JUNE 1964 The task of tying the back legs together, and carrying it to the Model T was laborious, but he managed. "Open the car door, James, and we'll put it beside the other one," he said. The little hungry lamb instinctively tried to find some much-needed nourishment from the new companion, but it wasn't the right kind of sheep. "Don't cry little sheeps,"' said Peter sympathetically, patting it on the head. "Sheep," corrected Mama. "I don't want to hear you say 'sheeps' again, Peter!"' | WE started for home. Papa and Mama were very quiet. James and Peter lay on their stomachs on the seat watching the sheep, and trying to calm them. At the top of the hill we noticed the old ewe and her twin lambs, feeding contentedly by the side of the road. Papa slowed down wondering what to do, and a little fearful of Mama's wrath. He thought of all the good winter meat we could have just for the taking, and decided to stop. "You couldn't possibly be thinking of taking more sheep?" Mama asked. "Bess, listen to reason, will you? Those sheep will give us all the mutton we need this winter,"' Papa tried to explain. "What would you suggest we do, get out and walk while you load up with sheep?" she retorted. Papa was trying to figure out how he could load all those sheep. He had no intention of leaving them behind. The one with the broken leg would cause less trouble up front beside Mama, he decided. The old ewe and the little ones would settle down beside her. The real trouble began when Papa started to put the crippled sheep in the front. "Lift up your skirts, Bess, and I'll set this cripple one in front," he said. "You'll do no such thing, I'll walk first!" threatened Mama, and out of the Ford she got, tight shoes and all. Papa looked down at her feet and decided to take a chance. He took off his stiff collar and derby hat, and laid them on the front seat, and started for the sheep. "Put a couple of rocks behind the back wheels, James, so she won't roll down hill. Addie, you take off your stockings, they're torn anyway, and you and Peter stand over there by the hill and don't let the sheep go past you." Holding my skirts away from my stinging knees, I did as he bade. We were never permitted to talk back to Papa. It was hard work trying to corner a sheep with two lambs, but we did. Papa grabbed the old ewe's two back legs so she couldn't kick, and tied them together with my black stockings. It took some doing to get those frightened sheep in Lizzie, and by the time we were through, our shoes were skinned, and our clothes torn and soiled. The little orphan lamb again searched for nourishment from the old mother, but the two stronger ones pushed it away. This 416 THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY 'You had better 80 on in the house with Mama and take care of those knees," said Papa, as he helped me over the side of the car. THE old €we, anxious to put her feet on solid ground, almost kicked off my stockings before Papa could get her tied to a tree, where she stayed until a pen was built. There was no fear of the lambs straying down its throat. Peter Spent hours coaxing his new pet to drink, Opportunity. They romped and Played until completely exhausted, then would drop down on the grass to rest and sometimes have a Said it was all imagination. 417 VOLUME 51 JUNE 1964 NUMBER. & ° IN the beautiful springtime of the year, in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 4, 5, and 6, 1964, the 134th Annual General Conference of the Church was held and commemorated the organization of the Church on the 6th of April 1830. The rapid growth of the Church was revealed by the announcement of a membership of 2,117,451 as of December 31, 1963, with the number of full-time missionaries listed as 11,653. The unity and strength, as well as the continuity of inspired leadership, were demonstrated by President McKay, in his ninety-first year, who presided at all the conference sessions and conducted part of them and in the appointment of Paul Harold Dunn, thirty-nine, to be the new member of the First Council of Seventy. In his opening address, President McKay appealed to the saints throughout the world to live the principles of the gospel and thereby strengthen themselves and their homes: This morning | have in mind giving a warning to all young people relating to three dangers threatening the success and happiness of youth: First — the pernicious habit of smoking cigarettes; second — the increasing number of divorces; third — the tendency to hold less sacred the moral standards. One of the most precious possessions is our families. The domestic relations precede, and, in our present existence, are worth more than all other social ties. They give the first throb of the heart and unseal the deep foundations of its love. Home is the chief school of human virtues. Its responsibilities, joys, sorrows, smiles, tears, hopes, solicitudes form the chief interests of human life. President Hugh B. Brown delivered an address in which he affirmed the meaning of the gospel of Jesus Christ in a world in which so many are frustrated in their search for truth. 418 wnual Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring EIna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva Barlow Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles General Conference Unlike those whose religious faith is uneasy and precarious in the modern world of expanding scientific knowledge, we are at home with the most advanced truths discovered by scientists and with all competent philosophic thought — with truth wherever found — because our religion enjoins in us a love of knowledge and education; encourages us to seek understanding through broadening our vision and deepening our insight. This is an eternal quest. In a description of God's dealings with men through his prophets, President Nathan Eldon Tanner declared: While the prophets in the old land were receiving revelations from God, the people of Lehi on this, the American Continent, were not left without guidance. Prophets were raised up through whom God spoke and directed his people in all their doings as they would listen. He revealed to them, also, 600 years before Christ's coming, that he would come, that he was the Savior of the world, that he would be persecuted and crucified, and that he would be resurrected. One of the most blessed and heartfelt events of the conference was the farewell message of President McKay, delivered with love and solicitude: It is a great thing to be a father of boys and girls. | think it is a precious thing for our boys and girls to realize their responsibility to carry their father's name in love and honor.... We have had a wonderful conference.... Let us take with us appreciation of being a father, appreciation of being a mother. And boys and girls, go with the responsibility that you have to bring comfort and gladness and thankfulness to the hearts of your fathers and mothers. 419 In Memoriam— Gladys Pratt Young March 24, 1895 - April 3, 1964 Gapys Pratt Young, wife of S. Dilworth Young of the First Council of Seventy, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 3, 1964. Of illustrious pioneer heritage, through the line of Parley P. Pratt, she was born in Colonia Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico, the youngest daughter of Helaman and Victoria Billingsley Pratt. Both her father and her brother, Rey Lucero Pratt, served as presidents of the Mexican Mission, and the members of the Pratt family are greatly loved and respected throughout the Church. Gladys spent her early years in the Mexican Colonies and lived with her brother Rey L. Pratt in Mexico City after the death of her parents. She was married to S. Dilworth Young, May 31, 1923, in the Salt Lake Temple. A talented woman, skilled in the creative arts, Sister Young wrote and directed many dramas and pageants for the Church and for the communities in which she lived, generously sharing her gifts, her time, and her energy. Skilled in many household handicrafts, she excelled in such accomplishments as designing costumes, painting trays, rug making, and quilting, and she taught these skills to many women in the missions and at home. She served as president of the New England Mission Relief Society from 1947 to 1951 during the time that her husband presided over that mission. The General Board of Relief Society, and the membership throughout the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to Elder Young and to the other family members. May the beautiful life and the lovely ways of Gladys Pratt Young be a blessed memory to them. Always the Moment Lael W. Hill Shall we look back and say to each other, Remember, remember— That was the first day we looked on each other's faces The instant of just before hearing each other's laughter The merest beginning of almost-touching our fingers? Shall we look back together sometime, in a frantic recalling Trying to capture the color of eyes that were lighted, Listening long for the music that once was our voices, Reaching the hands of remembering—vainly, vainly? If we knew—if our longing could wake an awareness, a knowledge, The moment of then lies parallel with our tomorrow! Look forward to loving: our love will be always beginning— Nothing is lost that we live so intensely, so purely. 420 Ramona W. Cannon Among the women appointees to Government positions by President Lyndon B. Johnson are the following: Mrs. Norman Chandler, sixty-two, as a member of the Advisory Committee to the United States Information Agency; Mrs. Virginia Mae Brown, forty, to the Interstate Commerce Commission; Mrs.! Ndia Edwards, almost seventy, to be special consultant on youth employment to the Secretary of Labor; Mrs. Katherine E. White, fifty-seven, to be ambassador to Denmark; Mrs. Herbert Stats, fifty-three, as a consultant in the Office of Aging, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, and coordinator of Senior Citizens Month (May); Mrs. Mary Keyserling as director of the Women's Bureau, Labor Department. THE BEGUM (Princess) C. AHMED of Pakistan served as a delegate at the installation of President Leoni of Venezuela. The Begum was the first woman from Pakistan to be a delegate to the United Nations. Her countrywomen now vote, and Pakistan has _ sixteen women in Parliament, and a woman ambassador to Italy. It has been estimated by the Associated Press of the United States that from a total of 49,034 reporters and editors of major newspapers, 17,274 are women who are finding rewarding careers in various fields of journalism. QUEEN ELIZABETH of Great Britain, thirty-seven, gave birth to her fourth child (third son and third in line of succession) on March 10, 1964. A fortyone gun salute heralded the news across London. MARGARET BARTLETT ANDERSON is author of Robert Frost and John Bartlett, the Record of a Friendship (Holt, Reinhart and Winston, publishers) which reveals many aspects of the life and the poetry of this '"'genius with all that genius implies... Insight, energy, sensitivity." RUTH ABAT is public relations director and advertising manager for Raymond International, a heavy' construction company, with headquarters in New York City and construction contracts in many countries. Miss Abat has been a staff writer for several large newspapers and was formerly editor of the Dun and Bradstreet house publication, New York City. EILEEN FARRELL has been described by many eminent music critics as the finest dramatic soprano in the United States. ''Her voice is full-bodied and rich, the diction faultless, and her rhythm and phrasing unequaled."' She has sung in many of the world's greatest concert halls and has appeared with the most acclaimed symphony orchestras and in leading roles in operas and oratorios. 421 EMILY DICKINSON "Occupation—Keeps House"' Laurel Ulrich The quotations reprinted in this article are from the book "The Letters of Emily Dickinson," edited by Thomas H. Johnson, and are used by special permission from Harvard University Press. Main Street in Amherst, Massachusetts, leads gently past the quiet common and a short row of shops, starts its ascent near the towered red brick police station, grows steeper as it moves into a residential section, then thrusts breathlessly upward until, just surmounting a view of the hills beyond, it passes the thick maze of hemlock which screens the mansion where Emily Dickinson lived and died. Emily's home is not open to the public. The white sign on the side of the house which claims it as her home can barely be glimpsed through the branches of the hedge, which reaches well past 422 the sill of the second story windows. Retreating back down the hill, one can peer through the driveway opening and see something of the house—solid, conservative red brick cupola crowded. To the left of the driveway is the clay-colored picket fence of "The Evergreens," the house Edward Dickinson built for Emily's brother Austin and his_ bride. Towering over the pickets is another hemlock hedge and, piercing it, a row of pinions standing like flagstaffs before an embassy. The house itself is a clay-colored frame version of Edward's own. It would be hard to imagine either of these houses open to tourists. There is a mystery in their aloofness which invites speculation on the lives within. It is easy to imagine a slender woman in white darting into a doorway to avoid being seen, to picture a "New England Nun" tending her flowers and her broken heart behind the tall hedge. Like the citizens of Amherst in Emily's day, seeing the hedge, hearing the half-whispered rumors, we began to believe the legend of 'Miss Emily." If we were to step through the hedge, wouldn't we see her there now, sitting in her garden dreamily writing in a small notebook, her face as pale as her dress, thinking of the legendary lover she had been forced to renounce in her youth? Unfortunately for the legend, if we had been able to penetrate the hedge in Emily's day, we would probably have seen her, with her auburn hair neatly parted in the middle, dressed in apron (a white one?), kneading bread for the family, or-doing any one of a dozen homely tasks. A household of 100 years ago required immense labor to operate. It took the efforts of Mrs. Dickinson, Lavina, an Irish maid, and Emily to keep the large Dickinson house going. There were vegetables to gather and preserve, apples to pick and make into sauce and cider. There were starched shirtfronts to iron with heavy irons heated and reheated on the woodburning stove. There were scrubbing and sweeping and dusting and polishing—all without the benefit of vacuum cleaners—and all the while carrying the weight of a many-petticoated, full-length dress. Emily hated housework, saying she "preferred pestilence." EMILY DICKINSON But she carried her share of the duties. Her province seems to have been cooking. Writinc to her friend Abiah Root, the fifteen-year-old Emily says: "I am going to learn to make bread tomorrow. So you may imagine me with my sleeves rolled up, mixing flour, milk, saleratus, etc. With a deal of grace. I advise you if you don't know how to make the staff of life to learn with dispatch." Eleyen years later she was an expert baker. At the Amherst Cattle Show in 1856 her loaf of "rye and Indian" bread won second prize— seventy-five cents. To his death Edward Dickinson was said to have refused any bread not of Emily's baking. In a letter to Mrs. Holland, in 1871, Emily says she is "pleased the Gingerbread triumphed." The recipe was Emily's: "1 Quart Flour, % Cup Butter, 4% Cup Cream, 1 Table Spoon Ginger, 1 Tea Spoon Soda, I Salt. Make up with Molasses—." It was natural that being cook she also made the fires. Writing to Austin at six A. M. She said: "T add a word to say that I've got the fires made and waked the individuals, and the Americans are conquering the British in the teakettle.... Will now proceed to get breakfast, consisting of hash and brown bread—Dessert—A. Sauce." When Forester Ainsworth took the Tenth National Census in Hampshire County, Massachusetts, in 1880, he listed Emily E. Dickinson, Occupation: "Keeps House." To all the world this was Emily Dickinson's full-time occu- 423 JUNE 1964 pation. Those around her knew she was in the habit of writing small verses and strangely literary letters to her friends, but they had no idea that at night, while the rest of the family slept, Emily Dickinson was an intense artist who wrote volumes of poems, many of them among the greatest in American letters. Modern housewives who find themselves exhausted after a day with automatic washer and electric frypan can perhaps understand one reason for Emily's retirement from village life—the need for time and energy to pursue her clandestine life's work. Part of the greatness of Emily Dickinson's poetry is in the startling precision of her metaphors. Is it surprising that many of these come from housework? When she becomes disillusioned with an idea, it falls and breaks ''At bottom of my Mind," like a plate falling off a shelf. She talks of brushing away a summer like a fly, or of winding '"'the months in balls." "sweeping up the heart" becomes part of the bustle in the house after a death. Using themes another poet might treat with "high seriousness," Emily almost playfully confronts us with homely fact, with trimming a lampwick, sifting flour, making a bed. She catches us off guard, teases us with her slant way of seeing things, and, in the end, profoundly moves us. E. Dickinson, Occupation: Poet, triumphs; but not without retaining part of Miss Emily, Occupation: Keeps House. For a fascinating treatment of the home life of Emily Dickinson, especially in the earlier years, see Millicent Todd Bingham, Emily Dickinson's Home, New York: Harper & Row, Inc., 1955. 424 Tide Turn Marjorie Newton Punchbowl, New South Wales, Australia | have come back to the sea, seeking strength. Here | will answer myself, here decide. The beach is deserted, lonely its length, And | am at one with sun, surf, and tide. My cliff top is shared with the sound-swift terns, The salt wet wind blowing steady and free, And all that is sane within me yearns For the pattern of life as it used to be. The breakers are never still; ebb and surge Are marked by the curves of froth on the shore, And change is constant: the patterns emerge Only to mingle their colors once more. | will face the wind and the turning tide, For the sea will return to the land, And ever the meaning of life will abide, Clear patterned on smooth and shining sand. Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, travel across the plains with their own outfit in the company of Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena's fiance died at Winter Quarters, and still bitter and sorrowing, she refuses to take an interest in Lon, who has loved her since their first meeting. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, and, later, they decided to go to San Bernardino, California, with the saints who plan to settle there. Selena and Lon also leave with the company for California, but when a division of the company is made, Lon and Selena are separated. Alfred Quale, also on his way to California, begins his courtship of the lovely Selena. 'THere were days at a time now when the cemetery at Winter Quarters and the happenings there seemed very far away to Selena. She was enjoying the companionship of her new friend, Alfred Quale. He was so goodnatured and cheerful that her despondency seemed to lessen with the passing of each day. VY ss i CHAPTER 5 Hazel M. Thomson Wk Too, some of Belle's enthusiasm may have rubbed off on Selena. Belle had never been happier. When they arrived at Resting Springs they did just that; they drank from the spring, filled every available water container, and rested. The feed was plentiful, and the leaders decided to give the animals a few days' rest. "T?'s an oasis," Josiah said, looking at the luxuriant growth of grass. "Plenty of feed and plenty of water. Still, it makes me a little uneasy." "For goodness sakes, Josiah, why? Can't you just take advantage of the chance to rest a few days without dreaming up something to worry about?" "T'm not dreaming, Belle," he answered. "The leaders aren't dreaming either. They feel it necessary that we wait up here, until the other company arrives. We have been traveling so slowly that Brother Rich and his group can't be more than a few days back." 425 JUNE 1964 Selena, knitting nearby, was surprised to find her heart skipping a beat. Lon! He would be in camp soon! She bent lower over her work, unwilling to betray any sign of emotion about Lon. She realized the lack of encouragement she had given him. The amazing thing was that he had remained so constant in coming to see her at every opportunity, in view of her own actions. But Selena did not yet know her own mind, so she said nothing. It was late the next day that the Rich Company caught up with the lead camp. Just as Belle had hoped and Selena expected, Lon arrived at their wagon in time to eat the evening meal with them. "Lon!" cried Josiah, slapping his tall friend on the back, as the two friends shook hands. "I was afraid we'd seen the last of you until California." "It's mighty good to be here," replied Lon, glancing at Selena. "I'm glad you came to a place with enough feed to stop and let the animals eat and rest for a few days or we never could have caught you. You've made good time."' "And you've made better than we did," said Josiah smiling, "thanks to Belle." "Now, Josiah," interrupted Belle, ''there's no need to be saying that." "Why? What do you mean, Josiah?" Lon asked. "Oh, all those rocks Belle has moved out of the road. Don't tell me you didn't see them as you went by." "That's all right, Belle,'' Lon said, moving over and shaking hands with her. "Josiah knows 426 well enough that he has the best wife on the wagon train. Hope I can be as lucky when I get me a wife." As he finished speaking, he turned and looked directly at Selena, taking her hand in his. She thrilled at his touch-— and immediately resented it, that anyone could have this effect upon her, when the man she had loved lay in the cemetery at Winter Quarters. She resented even the thought of anyone taking his place. With Alfred it was different. She enjoyed his company, his constant jesting. It gave a lift to her downcast spirits. That was all. "Selena. She dropped her eyes before the message she read in Lon's. "Selena, it's so good to see you again. I was sorry to miss seeing you that last night, but some of us were sent into the settlement on a last minute assignment. We had to go." Of course! Thought Selena. She might have expected Lon had some reason of that sort. His personal affairs would always come second to whatever he considered to be a call from authority. It wasn't, then, that he had not wanted to see her. She had wondered about it, and now that she had found out, it angered her a little. She was puzzled by her own illogical reasoning, resenting the effect of Lon's presence or his touch, yet hurt that he would consider other things more important than she was. 99 THe following morning the sun rose on a cloudless sky. By ten o'clock, the day gave promise of being the hottest of the trip to date. "I'm glad we're not traveling today, Belle," said Selena as they finished their wash at the creek the men had dug away from the spring. "I think we needed the rest as much as the cattle and horses did."" She looked away toward the clump of trees by which they had stopped their wagon. The shade looked very inviting. "T know what you're thinking, Selena," said Belle, following her gaze. "I'd enjoy lying around in the shade a bit myself on a day like this, but Josiah says there's no time to waste, that we've got to get to California and get some crops in as soon as possible." "T realize that," answered Selena, "'but at least we can rest in the shade for awhile this morning. We've finished the wash. What's left that needs doing right now?" "Hay," answered Belle, picking up the pile of wet clothes. "Hay?" "Yes. This tall grass that the cattle have been enjoying so. Josiah says we'll never find any more of it until we get across the desert. Lon was there at the wagon this morning, after you left to go to the spring. He suggested that we repack the wagon, putting the things we must have every day near the back where we can get at them, then fill every wagon with the grass. The men have scythes to cut it, but the cattle have eaten it so far back away from camp that all the women and children will help carry it to the wagons and tramp it in." Selena sighed, her hopes for a pleasant, restful day vanishing. She went alongside of Belle, doYOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING ing her share, though Belle cheerfully offered to carry it for her. Back at the wagon she climbed in and tramped it down as firmly as she could, after it reached too near the wagon cover for Belle to get in and help. There were stickers in among the grasses that clung to her dress and scratched her legs through her heavy stockings. Late in the afternoon they stopped for a bite to eat and AIlfred came by. He peered into the wagon and laughed heartily. "What is this? A haystack? You going to take it with you and set it down in your field in California? You won't need half that much to cross this little desert." He walked on, still chuckling. Selena, hot and tired and dirty, sat trying to pull the stickers and burrs from her clothing. This was like Lon, she decided bitterly. Always going to extra lengths of precaution, when half as much would probably have been enough. Hadn't they followed the trail many weeks and never been without grass yet? There was no room now for her to sleep in the wagon, so she moved her quilts out under the stars. She was completely exhausted and_ slept soundly through the oppressive heat of the night. SELENA awakened after Belle and Josiah were up, and as Belle opened the back flap on the wagon she called, "That grass really sank low in the night. We've only got half a load." "Half a load?" Selena watched Josiah come up and look into the wagon. "That grass didn't sink anywhere. Someone stole it!" She saw the look of anger on 427 JUNE 1964 Josiah's face as he walked away hurriedly. She knew that Josiah suspected Alfred. She also knew there would not be an easy way to prove it. There had certainly been others besides Alfred who had thought it unnecessary to fill their wagons so full. After rolling up her bedding, Selena propped a mirror against the spokes in the wagon wheel, removed the pins from her long, dark hair and began brushing it, enjoying the clean feel of it. Just then Josiah returned to camp, Lon beside him. "IT thought it was mighty strange yesterday that he was so all-fired unconcerned about filling his wagon," Josiah was saying. "I think you're wrong, Lon, this time. Seems to me we should let him know we're on to the trick." "You can't prove it, Josiah," said Lon. ''Best thing to do is just let me take this fork and help you fill it up again. There's still some cut that wasn't carried in last night." Selena looked at Lon, startled. He stood there, strong and handsome, head bared, exactly as she had seen him a long time ago, and he held the fork as he had the shovel, throwing great thuds of earth into an open grave at Winter Quarters. INow began the most dreadful part of the journey, as the Lyman group moved ahead. This was the stretch from Resting Springs to the Mojave River, leaving the other party to take advantage of the feed and water they were leaving. "We'll reach Salt Springs first," said Josiah, as the wagon train 428 moved slowly along under the blistering sun. "Captain Hunt says we'll appreciate the water in our own barrels then, warm and brackish or not." And now, surprisingly to many, the road began to make a steady climb in the desert country, adding to the burden of both people and animals in the devastating heat. Selena began to feel the stickiness of her clothes. For several days there could be no water used for washing purposes. Every drop must be carefully hoarded to preserve the life of beast and man alike. The sandy floor of the desert was hot to the touch as they spread out bed covers at night, yet often, before morning came, the cold desert night caused the travelers to welcome a covering. Upon arising, there was no water to be used for washing faces. Selena felt the sand, which arose in a cloud from the movement of so many horses and cattle heavy in her hair under her sunbonnet. A cheer went up when, at last, the straggly growth of trees marking Salt Springs came into view. "You will find the water all right to do some washing," said Brother Lyman, riding back along the line. "But drinking it will only add to your thirst. Too much will make you sick, and if the animals are allowed to get to it, they will drink too much and we are certain to lose some of them." JosAH, Belle, and Selena walked together to the spring. It ran clear and looked deceivingly clean and cool. "It looks all right, to me," Belle said, dipping her hand into the water. "I wonder if they're sure this is the spring that tastes so awful." Josiah looked at his wife. "Belle, both Brother Lyman and Captain Hunt passed through here not so long ago. I think you can take their word about the water." "But it looks so good," said Belle, dropping to the ground. "T'll just take a little taste.'' She cupped her hands and lifted them full to her mouth. Josiah looked at Selena, shaking his head. "Phew!" Belle exclaimed. "I think I'm poisoned!"' "You heard what Brother Lyman said," Josiah reminded her, "that it was possible to do just that. Only he expected the people to have enough sense not to drink the foul-tasting stuff. It was only the animals that he felt must be kept away from it." "Salt Springs!" Belle spoke disgustedly. "I thought all along I could stand the taste of a little salt, rather than that hot stuff in the barrels, but this is just terrible. If Bitter Springs tastes any worse than this, I'd like to taste it!" "And you probably will," her husband agreed. "We can wash, anyway," Selena said, as she lifted the water to her face. It stung her sunburned cheeks, but still she welcomed having her face feel clean once more. When there was time she would wash her hair. Right now there were other things to be washed. "Come on, Selena," said her sister. ""Let's get our clothes that need it the worst and get busy before the spring gets too crowded." YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING THE stop there was only for the night, and on the morning they began making their weary way on toward Bitter Springs. The sparse growth of salt grass that they found now offered no hopes of replenishing their fast-diminishing hay supply. There was no riding in the wagons now. The sandy floor of the desert was left behind and the road lay continually uphill, the rocky terrain making walking difficult. Selena found herself thinking that this part of the journey was something of a triumph; that nothing she would ever experience in the future in the way of physical discomfort would probably equal this. Her tongue began to feel swollen and thick and her parched lips broke into blisters. For two days she had not seen Alfred and was glad that she did not have to smile at his jests. Talking began to take too much effort in the blazing sun and it was a quiet, solemn group who toiled on in the intense heat. That night was a dry camp, for the entire water supply was exhausted. Then, when the news was sent back that the Mojave River was within the day's journey, cheers were given and steps quickened, glad that stops such as the one at Bitter Springs had been brief. Belle saw Quale that night returning toward their wagon with Selena. Belle watched her sister smiling up into the man's lowered face. Impatiently, Belle wished for the remainder of the trip to be done with so that Lon could be around permanently. Events were moving swiftly toward some kind of crisis. Belle wondered what it would be. (To be continued) 429 Gretchen Stratton Makes P e-Winning Pillows Gretchen Stratton, LaVerkin, Utah, makes lovely decorative pillows for her friends and relatives. In 1963, her beautiful pillows, in designs of harmonious colors and exquisite stitchery, won first place at the Washington County Fair. This award was all the more notable because this dear sister has been blind for fourteen years. She has been a counselor in her ward Relief Society, and each year she gives The Relief Society Magazine to her daughters and daughters-in-law for their birthdays. Sister Stratton is mother to eight, grandmother to twenty-eight, and great-grandmother to twenty-four. TIRE SOOO a 3., 4 >i 2 bag dy a: - ' ', on oi — We %. Re ' er. # ~* a ie ' > ed _ Y * at —_—" P: 7 " on. 4 7,; ", * "ty * - 7. > eng? Ts 2 OF 4 4 4 2 * Be;. 'ge 4. 8 4 e.0 38 aa, A, s j " zy ' aed e, % lS ' eo Re 2 * <e Bens vig + ough" — Rhee Sl ees Anna Marie Richins — Expert in Handicraft Anna Marie Richins, Las Vegas, Nevada, is an expert in many types of handicraft. Her braided rugs, fancy pillows, crocheted tablecloths, afghans, and doilies beautify the homes of many of her friends and relatives. She is also an expert at dressmaking and other kinds of machine sewing, making a creative art of ordinary household opportunities. Widowed when her twelve children were young, Mrs. Richins practiced the ways of industry and thrift. Six of her children are living, and she has nineteen grandchildren and twentytwo great-grandchildren. She has been a Relief Society visiting teacher for more than twenty-five years. 430 Maude W. Howard Desicninc beautiful flower arrangements is an art that is fascinating and rewarding. Our homes can be made attractive with flowers. They do add warmth and friendliness to our homes. Our homes can speak our personality when we make use of our own little touches. Flowers can enhance all of our cherished objects. As in any art, proper equipment is necessary, and the right tools make a difference. The essentials are few and inexpensive, but most important for successful flower arranging. A few of the basic needs or aids to flower arranging are: a knife, flower shears, a frog or a needle holder, oasis, wire, chicken wire, and basic containers. A good knife is a prime requisite. All flower stems should be cut. Aftera flower stem has been out of water any length of time and exposed to the air, it should be recut allowing water and oxygen to travel up the stem to the blossom. Flower shears are not recommended for cutting flower stems, because they tend to pinch the stems and cut off circulation to the water channels leading to the bloom. However, scissors are needed for many other steps and requirements in this. Work. Frogs or needle holders in various sizes are necessary for arranging in low, shallow containers, always remembering the frogs should be attached to the container with florists' clay before any moisture is added to the bowl. These frogs tend to hold stems upright and in place. Oasis, a new commercial product similar to a sponge, can be soaked in water over night, and when covered with foil, serves as a container in itself. However, I prefer to use oasis as a filler in another container so water may be added to the oasis daily. Floral wire is most useful to reinforce the flower stems and it also helps to hold the flower stem straight. If one wishes to attain a line arrangement with a flower, wire adds to the possible bending of the stem without breaking. Chicken wire is most successful when crushed to fit any shape of container. It is especially good in tall cylinder vases and urns because flowers are held in place. The stems can be inserted through mesh openings which hold stems in place and support them. Anything which holds water is a usable container for flowers, whether it be a compote, urn, shallow bowl, rectangular tray, jar, goblet, cylinder, or pillow type vase. Most generally we follow the line of the vase with our flower arrangement, curving with a curved or flare vase. More often, with an upright cylinder type vase, we make an upright straight arrangement which bespeaks modern or oriental art. We use few flowers, but place them carefully in a heaven, man, and earth fashion. This is three elevations filled in between with greens. If you are arranging flowers sent from a florist, remember to recut stems on the diagonal so when the stem is resting on the bottom of the vessel, circulation is not cut off and water can travel up the stem to the blossom. A stubby stem touches the bottom of the container so no action can take place. Remember at all times that flowers breathe in water through the stems, and a dry stem will not take in water even though the stem is submerged in water. This is most important to the lasting qualities of all types of flowers. 431 Before arranging flowers, always remember to remove all foliage below the water line. Always use a flower preservative such as one of the many commercial preparations for this purpose. Replace water as it evaporates from the container. Lukewarm water seems to make the stem more porous and allows quick water reaction up to the bloom. As an architect builds a home — makes plans and knows what he is going to do — we should proceed with flower arranging in much the same manner. We must know where the arrangement is to be placed in the home, whether it is to be on a radio, which wouldn't require flowers all around, or whether the arrangement would be placed on a low table or dining-room table, where it would need to be effective on all sides. We should take into consideration the surrounding colors and the decor of the home. So we must visualize what we want our finished product to look like and make a definite plan or use a picture from a magazine that we like and copy this if it fits our needs. Now we are ready to start our flower arranging. We have our necessary tools, together with a desired container and the plan which we wish to follow. I always start the arrangement in the center with three or five flowers of different elevations and work out the desired length needed. Keep in mind that flowers should always be once and a half times the height of the container and the same in length. We should always use small buds or flowers at the highest point, and as we come down we use the larger and more open flowers. We follow this same rule in color, using our more pastel color high and the stronger colors at the core of the arrangement. This gives a good balance without a top-heavy feeling. We work our flowers in a low and outgoing direction, thus giving them a three-dimensional look, which always creates more interest. When you receive a dozen roses from your florist, arrange them in a suitable vase, one which will be tall enough to hold enough water, remembering to recut the stems each day and add water enough to replace that which has evaporated. After the roses have bloomed out, stems can be shortened and utilized by arranging them in lower containers to prolong the life of the roses. We should always remember flowers that do not like drafts and artificial heat, should be placed in the coolest spot in the room. Whether we are going to enjoy our cut flowers depends somewhat on the tender care we give them. If our flowers wilt quickly and we have followed all instructions available, may I suggest you cut the stems and roll the top part of flowers in several pieces of wet newspaper. Leave the lower part of the stems exposed so that they can be put in a deep vessel of water and placed in a cool place. An over-night soaking of the blossoms in newspaper is preferred. In the morning they will be revived and will bloom out beautifully. The pleasure of working with flowers increases when we learn to manipulate them to achieve a wider range of design. The time to experiment with flowers ls when we have them in our gardens in profusion. Then we can work with them and become acquainted with the feel of flowers and know the capacity of the stems and blossoms, and the number of flowers needed for a specific arrangement. Women who enjoy flower arranging and are called upon to furnish arrangements for clubs, schools, or church functions should acquire interesting vases to accommodate different types and shapes of flowers and shrubs. It is so much easier to make an unusual arrangement in an unusual container. We are living in an era where we are more daring. When we create, we should try to create an arrangement which will act as a focal point or a conversation piece. They can be, if we take into consideration the decor and surroundings, and make our flower arrangements look like they belong and are a vital part of the room. Those of you who love to garden remember it is so essential to plant the right color and type of flowers in your garden so they can be used on the inside of your home—arranging the inside color of our homes to the outside and bringing the outside in so we do attain a more pleasing finished arrangement. 432 TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL White pompoms, white stock, and blue forget-me-nots make a special arrangement for the bride-to-be. A wedding bell centerpiece with streamers of ribbons cascades to candelabra and stately candles. A fluffy nosegay encircled with bridal illusion attached to the wedding bell and candelabra carries out the wedding theme. Silver elegance, a dramatic arrangement in a silver ice bucket can complement any dinner party or buffet table. Combined with lovely silver candelabra, it fends a note of elegance and formality. Caution is given to keep the arrangement compact. This design is made from stately pink gladioli and pink and white carnations. | White and yellow pompom chrysanthemums, with a touch of forsythia and white stock, make an appealing ''off-center arrangement,' using a tall cherub compote with satin streamers cascading to a low nosegay arrangement of the same flowers. This arrangement is good when candles need to be eliminated. Portrait pink carnations are used in this new mound look. It creates excitement when used with branches of spring blossoms. Let your imagination work and add a touch of the awakening of spring by adding butterflies or birds. TRANSPARENCY BY H ARMSTRONG ROBERTS Peach Blossoms Eva Willes Wangsgaard What does earth offer lovelier than these Peach orchards redolent with coral bloom? Rich pinkness, feathery light, alive with bees And crimson promises in every plume. So sweet these petal clouds against the blue The robins must translate them into trills; And darting bluebird wings come flashing through The mists of pink and white which hide the hills. Smooth russet trunks which anchor them to earth Are surging with the miracle of fruit And seed insistent on a stony berth, For centuries repatterned in the root. Oh, treasure them! Too soon this petal foam Will answer earth and float back toward the loam. 435 TRANSPARENCIES BY L PAUL ROBERTS Peggy Tangren Gathering and Pressing Tue first pleasure in making these exquisite cards comes from gathering the foliage that grows in our gardens, on foothills, in canyons, and along roadsides. Always carry old magazines with you so you can place the plants between the pages before they wilt. As you do this, discard all thick stems and dry or disfigured leaves. Throw away bulky parts of flowers; as an example, press only the petals of sunflowers. Small flowers make the best designs. Be sure you have plenty of long, wide-blade grass, and grasses that have gone to seed. These can be used the way a florist uses fern to fill out a bouquet. Materials Needed Cut a side from a corrugated carton about 10" x 12". This is called the mat. You will need: four thumbtacks, Scotch tape, a roll of double wax paper, white or tinted facial cleansing tissues of good quality, a strong white glue, new pastry brush, envelopes, and white writing paper. If desired an extra pastry brush and paraffin may be used (see Tips at end of article). Diamond dust glitter is optional and can be purchased at craft stores. 436 Procedure Assuming your envelopes measure 4" x 6" (this is an ideal size), fold a sheet of white paper down the middle and cut this double sheet to size 334" x 534", or 4," smaller than the envelope. Open this sheet and make a heavy pencil line along the fold. This is your size sheet. Place it in the center of the mat and tape the four corners down. Cut a single sheet of paper to 334" x 534". This is your pattern sheet. On this pattern sheet place your leaves and flowers, breaking off a stem, adding a bit of grass, until you have created a design that pleases you. Lay this carefully beside your size sheet. Tear off a piece of wax paper the size of the mat, lay it over the size sheet, and thumbtack to the four corners of the mat. Dip the pastry brush in a mixture of half glue and half water and brush on the wax paper covering the size sheet and one inch over all around. The glue will draw and puddle on the wax paper, so let it. Carefully lift the vegetation off the pattern sheet and place it in an identical design on the right half of waxed paper covering the size sheet. Separate a two-ply tissue and place one tissue over the glued section. Very gently stretch the tissue to pull out creases and wrinkles. Dip the pastry brush in the glue mixture, hold in a vertical position, and, with dabbing motion, wet and pat down all the tissue. Leave no dry spot, but do not soak. Sprinkle glitter, if desired, over the design very sparingly. Lift waxed paper off the mat and place on a flat, clean surface to dry. When completely dry, place between two pieces of heavy brown paper obtained by cutting open grocery bags. Press with an iron just hot enough to sizzle. Turn and press again until the parchment card lies smooth and flat. Place again over size sheet, and, with pencil, mark the four corners. Place a long, straight-edged knife or metal-edged ruler from corner to corner, press firmly with one hand, and with the other tear by pulling toward you. Repeat process for each side. Fold, insert note paper, and your personalized "parchment" correspondence card is finished. Tips The wrinkles in the wet tissue add to the parchment effect when dry. To prevent colors in flowers from running, use a barely damp brush and apply glue to flower last, then quickly pat up all the moisture possible with a piece of tissue. If necessary, to make the flowers stand out clearly, touch with paraffin wax while pressing. 438 TRANSPARENCY BY ROBERT PEASE Relief Society Silver Service COLLEGE PARK WARD, WASHINGTON STAKE This lovely silver service, which includes two punch bowls and trays of various sizes, was purchased with money earned through the sale of glass pictures (see "Painting With Glass,"' The Relief Society Magazine, March 1964, page 198, Article by Florian H. Thayne, transparencies by Robert Pease). The interesting and original hobby developed by Mrs. Betty Beesley Huber, ward work meeting leader, and her daughter Sharon Huber Carter, under sponsorship and direction of the ward and stake Relief Society, provided the funds for the purchase of the silver service, through the sale of glass pictures. The service is proudly displayed and used for Relief Society functions and for other stake and ward activities in Washington Stake, always reminding the sisters of the rewarding joy of creative activities when their individual talents are shared and become a part of the group accomplishments. 439 Pian for Your Bazaar in the Summertime Arrangements from the Work Meeting Display at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, 1963. One of the loveliest decorations uses an old-fashioned scale trimmed with artificial flowers or fruit and miniature lights. The one in the picture is made with an eight-inch circle of 3/8 unit plywood as a base, a dowel for the trunk, a smaller dowel for the crosspiece (set in at an angle). The trays are 1/4 in. Plywood circles with a styrofoam ball cut in half and glued to the plywood as a basis for the flowers or fruit. The scale is sprayed gold and the dowels are wrapped in gold ribbon. A gold cord is wound loosely around the upright dowels and formed into a loop at the top. The tiny lights are placed across the top dowel first and then into the trays and base. The scale is very effective decorated with red velvet roses or with red cherries or other small artificial fruits. Made by Zola McGhie TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL This is a very attractive three-dimensional wall plaque made with a plastic background. The grape clusters are made of marbles of three different colors. This booth was in the form of the outside of a store, looking inside. The backs of children's figures of cardboard were effective as if they were looking in the store window. Doils and dolls' clothes are excellent bazaar booth features. This picture shows a display of various kinds of the most popular dolls all beautifully dressed. The manner in which they are displayed promotes sales. The clothes may be purchased without the dolls. Made by Leah Vanjonora Made by South Davis Stake From South Cottonwood Stake Display This telephone book cover is made of medium felt to fit your local city directory with a three-inch turn-in on front and back. The edges are pinked and the cover is lined with _ Clear stiff plastic to make it more serviceable. The flower pot and stem are stitched by sewing machine about 1/8 inch from the edge. A circle of 5 inches in diameter is drawn 2 inches above the flower pot to form a nosegay. Some of the flowers and leaves are attached by sewing machine and some by French knots of wool yarn, worked from the outside to the center. Use your imagination in cutting the leaves and forming the flowers, which are all cut from felt, in color combinations of your choice. Made by Virginia Stake Olive W. Burt AALL over the country, artistically inclined people are turning back to the arts and crafts of our grandparents. They recognize in the pieced quilts, the braided rugs, the hand-carved wooden implements an aesthetic quality not found in machine-made articles. And when the exigencies of modern living and modern decor make it inadvisable to follow exactly the old tradition, clever fingers adapt the pioneer crafts to up-to-date uses. Such an adaptation is the "crazypatch" evening skirt, made exactly as our pioneer ancestors made crazypatch coverlets. For this skirt, a twoyard length of white muslin is used for the foundation. If the width of the muslin is not enough to provide an ankle-length skirt, a strip of the necessary width should be machine-sewed onto one long side of the muslin. That is, the muslin should be two yards long and wide enough to reach from the waist to the ankle of the one who is going to wear the skirt. Assemble a variety of silk and velvet scraps. Trim a few of these into various shapes and pin them along an end of the muslin. 'Match the outside edges as much as possible to avoid waste. Turn under the edge of one piece and blindstitch it down, overlapping the raw edge of the next piece. Continue in this fashion, trimming pieces to match where necessary, and blind-stitching a turned under edge over a raw edge each time. By working from one end toward the other, the material is more easily handled. When the entire piece of muslin has been covered with crazy patches in this way, all seams are covered with a cross-stitch or feather-stitch, or herringbonestitch (or a combination of stitches) done in black thread. All that remains is to face the bottom edge with a narrow bias facing, seam up the two ends into one side seam, leaving a six-inch opening for a placket. Into this a zipper may be inserted if desired. Gather the top edge to the length required for the waistband; sew on the band and fasteners and the skirt is ready to be admired. Interest is added if some of the scraps are "donated" by friends, especially if the pieces have special interest — a bit of a chum's wedding dress; a scrap from Mother's familiar housecoat; Father's favorite necktie, all give added romance to such a skirt — which may well turn out to be a family heirloom. MODEL ELLIE PENDLETON TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL 442 TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL 2 in Water Virginia Stake Relief Society Cut from good quality heavy felt the following oval-shaped pieces: From green felt, cut two pieces 7 inches in length and 6 inches across (in cutting, the fold would be 7 inches long). From white felt, cut one oval-shaped piece 6 inches long and 5 inches across. From bright pink-colored felt, cut one oval-shaped piece 5 inches long and 4 inches across. From black felt, cut six pieces the size and shape of watermelon seeds. Lay the white piece on top of one of the green pieces and stitch along the edge with white thread. Then lay the pink piece on the white piece and stitch along the edge with pink thread. Place a layer of air foam between the two green ovals, sew the two green ovals together along the edge with matching thread. Fold down the center and press. Attach the seeds to the pink with good quality glue, three seeds on each side of the center fold. Attach a white plastic curtain ring to one end of the green felt. These favors will stand up and add much attractiveness to the watermelon table, and the guests will be delighted with their favors, which can be used later in the kitchen as colorful pot holders. One of the most interesting ideas to help you beautify your home is the covering of styrofoam balls with self-adhesive satin ribbon. There are several reasons why homemade satin balls are valued: They are more economical; the balls do not snag and become "ragged" looking; and you can have a wide range of color and size depending on your own taste. Materials You are probably familiar with styrofoam, but do you know you can carve it with a serrated knife and make about any shape you wish? You can also use another piece of styrofoam to sand it with until it is smooth, or you may use regular sanding paper. This is the way you can make a pear shape (out of an egg shape) or a banana (out of a pole). As for that ribbon you use, it must be the type which sticks to itself when wet and strips easily. There are several brands available. For some of the fruit, you may wish to use chenille-covered stems or wire wrapped with green florist's tape, and artificial foliage. For tinting apricots or other fruit, a small amount of "blush" from water color paints may be used. (Continued on page 449) 444 Ribbon-Covered Fruit and Ornaments RaNae Gledhill Ciothing for the Very Young Helen Lach R*Ran ey TRANSPARENICES BY HAL RUMI FASHIONS FOR LITTLE GIRLS Left to right: Tracy Anderson, daughter of Bishop and Mrs. John A. Anderson, wearing a cute two-piece suit. The corduroy top has an appliqued flower-pot pocket. Complete cost 35c Lisa Whiteley, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. John Whiteley, wearing a cotton plaid smock dress, with double organza collar and flower trim. Cost 65c Melinda Whiteley, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. John Whiteley, wearing a white petti-pique dress. The inverted pleats are trimmed with navy blue grosgrain bows. Cost 85c. Heather Campbell, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Pierce Campbell, in a bright red dacron frock. The tucked bodice front is trimmed with tiny white buttons. Cost 55c COATS AND A BLUE DRESS Top, left: Peacock blue, wool flannel, girl's coat and bonnet. Made by Alice Chaffer, Monument Park Ward. Center: Turquoise wool jumper and white dacron blouse. Made by Lynn Anderson, Monument Park Eleventh Ward. Top, right: Blue, wide-wale corduroy topcoat, with red cotton flannel lining. Made by Eileen McKean, Monument Park Third Ward. Lower left: Boy's wool topcoat and hat, made from a discarded coat. Cost 30c to make. New lining was used. Made by Merlynne Hoggan, Monument Park Second Ward. Lower right: Boy's wool tweed topcoat, made from a man's used sports jacket. New lining was used, and new cotton flannel interlining for extra warmth. Cost 90c Made by Florence Woods, Monument Park Twelfth Ward. *Myrtle Olsen is president of Monument Park Stake Relief Society, with Carol Daynes as work director counselor, Kay Sullivan as work meeting leader, and Hele Lach, sewing instructor. This class was limited to one participant from each of the five wards. 446 New and Remade Outfits made by Monument Park Stake Relief Society Salt Lake City, Utah SPRINGTIME PARADE Left to right: Heather Campbell, wearing a daffodil yellow coat and bonnet set, made of ' washable pin-wale corduroy. The coat is fully lined and has a lace-trimmed over-collar. Cost of coat, hat, and cute washable bag $1.25. Tracy Anderson in a yellow batiste dress with lace and embroidery trim. Brad Campbell, son of Mr. And Mrs. Pierce Campbell, is smartly dressed in a two-piece suit with matching tie, made of washable Milliken flannel. Cost $2.00 Martha Evans, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Edmund Evans, is very chic in an embroidered cotton frock. Cost 85c The combined cost of the clothing pictured in this group was under $5.00. Clothing of comparable style and quality, if purchased ready-made, would have been $30.00, or more. ——————— — sere "ati Ce ee Sa a a - 4 M HESLOP MOTHER AND DAUGHTER FITTING A DRESS IN RELIEF SOCIETY WORK MEETING Models: Janet Romney Crockett and daughter Elizabeth Crockett 448 nual Report for 1963 Relief Society, as organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith 122 years ago, was designed to accomplish a broad two-fold function — to provide benevolent service and to educate and develop its members. These general functions of the Society have zealously been carried forward. The records of 1963 show remarkable growth, service, and accomplishment. The blessings of membership were extended to more than a quarter of a million women (262,002), an increase of 13,836 members. Of this total membership, 2,684 were non-L. D. S. Women who recognized within the organization that which was uplifting and ennobling. The lofty purposes of the diversified program of Relief Society have been uniformly administered throughout the 5,583 ward and branch societies distributed in fifty-two countries of the world, including each of the fifty states within the United States. Of this number, 3,644 societies are located in the 388 stakes of the Church and 1,939 in 311 mission districts in the seventy-one missions of the Church. Regardless of whether the local unit consisted of six sisters in a remote section of the Church or ninety in an area of concentrated Church membership, opportunities for service, and spiritual, educational, and cultural development have been provided each of its members. Leadership service developed 173,587 Relief Society members' who officered the various branch, ward, district, mission, and stake organizations. Of this number, 22,182 were class leaders who untiringly gave of their talents in their respective assignments: the theology class leaders to increase understanding of the doctrines of the Church and thereby influence Relief Society members to better living; the literature class leaders to deepen the appreciation of class members for good literature and to help gain enlightenment, spiritual uplift and enjoyment through reading good literature; the social science Class leaders to help the wo. Men build better relationships within the home and to understand more fully the principles of Church government; the work meeting leaders to train Relief Society members in sewing and other homemaking skills. In addition, the visiting teacher message leaders labored to moti vate the great corps of 113,680 visiting teachers so as to encourage and uplift the women visited monthly in their homes. Such visiting teachers in pairs made 4,325,341 visits to families in 60,640 visiting teacher districts. Included in this total number of visits were those made to 11,451 non-L. D. S. Families who had requested that Relief Society visiting teachers visit them in their homes. Refinement, culture, and spirituality have been promoted both for Participants and those who have listened to the harmonious strains of music rendered by approximately 41.865 Singing Mothers in 2,902 choruses. Such music has been presented at special programs, concerts, socials, Church meetings, and funeral services. Music 1§ considered an essential part of the Relief Society program. The Relief Society Magazine, the official organ of Reef Society, containing the lessons studied by its members, arucles of general reading interest to women, religious messages, helps to howvernwkers, and choice literary stories and poems, was received by 217.397 suityseribers throughout the world. Love-inspired compassionate Service, ministering ta the sick and comforting the sorrowing have continued among the imeertenl serwoes unselfishly rendered by Relief Society marmhpers durine the past year. Upon assignment of Relief Society, 390 566 visits were mae to the sick and homebound: 32,666 days were spent in the cere of the sick; and 596,349 hours were devoted to other COMPASSIONATE SeTVICe@S, sweh as caring for the children of a sick riother or taking & Hot mel to an aped neighbor. Relief Society members also dressed S26 bodies fer Wurial and assisted at 9,644 funerals by providing such servires es the handiing of flowers at the funeral service or the prepwting of food for tie mem bers of the bereaved family. Relief Society under the direction of the Piresthead bas alse anded in the care of the poor, the destitute, the widow. Anc the crahan trreupn the Church Welfare Program. Ward and branch Reef Socwty presents under the direction of the Priesthood Visited lOO.969 famniles te Ge termine their needs and made 50,653 ortiws COMALTS wilh UCT) Sprilws A total of 902,22) hours were contributed by fare membre of tie Church on welfare projects, such as canning Gi frulls and vegetables eva sewing needed clothing. Homemaking skills were developed "iil creates teieny diecowared by the sisters as they completed " total cf [(28 S9¢ wiles. OF Nis number 687,091 were sewed aftictes ji UG Gut', CAN ane household furnishings, and 367.803 wera other handrail anitias Ai and better methods of homme iianagenmnt art belie: weve ol pr fern Ing homemaking Uasks were also leartwel Thus, the reeord of serviewe anil Sviainpisnwneants at laiwt Sr creties throvghout the world? Aba elledte fr he divenily of it WOITlen S$ Olganiwatron establishes ay St @ Ceritliry ee w@ lilo i by the Propliet al God an new tinehived ty te thee Ulllest renter WOMEN'S OFS PetiGn In tie Lilet Shote SZ aor vite Sreewtary Ty eamurer 1963 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION of Relief Society Organizations and Members in the United States Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana lowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri iN MISSIONS TOTALS i | Organi f zations | 29 8 260 9 12 ANOdt fo) NS a 0) Members 552 115 206 183 318 114 164 Organitzations Members 552 375 IN STAKES IN MISSIONS | Tera 1 = q United States Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Total United States Organi zationgd Members 1,891 321 4,096 511 2,418 98,012 933 5,948 377 3,473 1,266 3,338]213,641 Organizations 18 6 14 15 592 Members Organi: Zations 74 17 | i i T | Me 2277 395 4,112 146 511 1,863 225,883 bers of Relief Society Organizations and Members in Other Countries =y — — 44, ALS si IN STAKES | IN MISSIONS TOTALS ' | as reaniOregani-| Members r: Other Countries tionsiMembers] zations|Members] zations i} Argentina 53 1,242 53 1,242 (| Japan 42 701 42 701 Australia 33 1,039 35 793 68 (1,832 | Korea 8 305 3 305 Austria 14 378 14 378 — Lebanon 1 12 1 12 Bermuda 1 9 1 9 | Mexico 15 581 109 2,482 124 3,063 Belgium 11 200 11 200 Netherlands 10 166 24 269 34 435 Brazil 58 1,673 58 1,673 New Zealand | 36) 1,188 | 45 791 81 1,979 Canada 96 4,538 85 1,544 181 6,082 § Nicaragua Chile 19 391 19 391 | Norway Cook Islands 6 85 6 85 Okinawa j Costa Rica 2 38 2 38 | PanamaCanal Zone} Denmark 24 541 24 541 = Philippine Islands E! L Salvador 7 134 7 134 Paraguay England 58 1,287 145 1,995 203 3,282 Peru Ethiopia 1 6 1 6 | Puerto Rico Fiji Islands 1 20 1 20 ~~ ~Poland Finland 19 405 19 405 Samoa Formosa 11 184 11 184 = Scotland France 36 643 36 643 = Spain Germany 27 961 155 4,010 182 4,971 | Sweden Greece 1 5 1 5 Switzerland Guam 1 16 1 16 ~~ 'Tahiti Guatemala 26 530 26 530 Tonga Honduras 2 88 Zz 88 Union of So. Africa |. Hong Kong 8 98 8 98 Uruguay 28 822 C 28 822 | Ireland 16 164 16 164 Wales 15 | 149 1 | 149 | italy 4 27 4 27: ) | N oa ts) N — eo ~w Lg AaAMMNON ~s + Me MMA N a a ise) 207 102 oO) ro 0 + C + fe) nw Lap) fe) ~ 250 13 ") [oe] <f fe) N N te | N N Ce) Ss ~" N N Total United States | 3,338 213,641 | 592 | 12,242 3,930 225,883 Total ee Other Countries | 306 10,335 |1,347 | 25,784 | 1,653 | 36,119 + GRAND TOTAL 3,644 223,976 1,939 38,026 5,583 = 1962 TOTAL MEMBERSHIP 1963 TOTAL MEMBERSHIP INCREASE 13,836 Membership Growth MEMBERSHIP Membership (Total) In Stakes In Missions Non-L. D. S. Members LEADERSHIP Relief Society Members Who Served as Leaders in the Society Stake Officers District and Mission Officers Ward and Branch Officers Other Officers Class Leaders Visiting Teachers ORGANIZATIONS Organizations (Total) Stake and Mission Organizations (Total) Stakes Missions Mission Districts Ward and Branch Organizations (Total) In Stakes In Missions 1963 1962 Increase or | Decrease st Psat a ane RA Re SRE Rane nce ee AE ky ee oR a ee 262,002 223,976 38,026 2,684 173,587 4,417 1,189 20,874 | 2 11,245 | 6. 21,144 2 22,182 | 248,166: 211,736 | 36,430 " | ' | Not tabulated ' ': i 4,097 / 19,89 10,58 113,680) 107,25 6,353 | 770 388 71] 311 5,583 3,644 1,939 6,021 361 303 5,288 3,435 1,853 i fi §: i ' i 773 69 | 13,836 + 12,240+ 1,596+ 332+ | 37+ | 27+ | 2+ | 8+ | 295+ 209+ | 864 | L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes In Missions NON-L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers Non-L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes In Missions SINGING MOTHERS Ward and Branch Singing Mothers Choruses (Total) In Stakes In Missions Approximate Number of Singers (Total) In Stakes In Missions MAGAZINE 1963 1962 Increase or Decrease | 529,439 434,531 94,908 491,604 412,936 78,668 37,835+ 21,595+ 16,240+ Not tabulated in 1962 j i | ' ' | | 2,724 | 2,135! 589 40,835 | 33,515 | 7,320) 48 - Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions | 217,397 | 201,570) 15,827+ t ___ AVERAGE ATTENDANCE Regular Meetings for Members (Total) In Stakes In Missions Theology Work Literature Social Science Visiting Teacher Meetings Relief Society Leadership Meetings DEVELOPMENT THROUGH EDUCATION 1963 Number Per Cent 1962 Number Per Cent 100,561 83,629 16,932 107,504 102,777 95,486 96,476 59,912 26,346 38.4 37.3 44.5 41.0 39.2 36.4 36.8 52.7 44.0 93,224 78,193 15,031 99,439 95,097 86,809 91,075 54,967 24,738 37.6 37.0 41.3 40.1 38.3 35.0 36.7 51.3 43.6 SEWING Articles Completed (Total) Sewed Articles (Total) Quilts Children's Clothing Women's Clothing Men's Clothing Household Furnishings Other (Miscellaneous) Non-Sewed Articles (Total) Sewing Machines Owned by Societies (Total) In Stakes In Missions 22,182 CLASS LEADERS 1,054,894 687,091 25,287 70,617 85,569 4,013 264,526 237,079 367,803 5,613 5,067 546 886,856 611,591 23,580 61,097 83,110 5,084 236,487 202,233 275,265 4,892 4,342 550 168,038+- 75,500+ 1,707+ 9,520+ 2,459+ 1,071 - 28,039+ 34,846+ 92,538+ INFLUENCED 262,002 MEMBERS NOILVIONAGS ONMVAANOH HOMON* I MEETINGS Total Meetings Held Relief Society General Conference Relief Society Meetings at Stake Quarterly Conferences Stake and Mission Meetings (Total) Stake and Mission Board Meetings Stake and Mission Leadership Meetin Ward and Branch Meetings (Total) Regular Meetings for Members Visiting Teacher Meetings Special Meetings Other Functions 1963 252,175 1 363 7,328 4,097 gs 3,231 234,456 179,468 35,621 19,367 10,003 1962 217,178 1 209,787 163,889 31,605 14,293 Increase or Decrease 34,997+- 142-+- 187+ 110+ 77+ 24,669+ 15,579+ 4,016+ 5,074+ 1963 1962 CHUJRCH WELFARE SERVICE Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop Other Contacts Hours Contributed by All Females on Welfare Projects Relief Society Members Who Assisted on Any Welfare Project During Year Hours Contributed on Welfare Projects by All Females Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Sisters Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Who Sewed for Themselves and Families 100,969 50,653 97,515 902,221 | 894,957 63,957 | 63,389 215,516 | 218%620 5,587 4,337 VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS To Wards and Branches (Total) 36,978 By Stake Officers 27,059 By Mission and District Officers 9,919 32,060 24,241 7,819 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements Cash Balance on Hand January 1, 1963 Receipts $2,151,410.47 4,210,497.66 $6,361,908.13 4,019,969.83 $2,341,938.30 Assets — December 31, 1963 Net Cash on Hand December 31 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishops Office 2.22 2-22.22.2-00-0020+ Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.) Real Estate and Buildings Increase or Decrease 3,454+ 7,264+ 568+ 3,104 — 1,250+ 4,918+ 2,818+ 2,100+ a onan ee$2,341,938.30 422,912.22 77,926.67 107,878.52 TOTAL ASSETS eee$2,950,655.71 Afl material submitted for publication in this department should he sent Htiycugely siake and misston Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing tie stilbmmittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for aay [O58. Page 47. And in the Relief Society Flandbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES European Mission, Relief Society Leaders and Singing Mothers at Servicemen's Conference, Bertchesgaden, Germany November 1963 Upper picture, left to right: Mary Russon, Swiss Mission; Lyle Petersen, Norwegian; Frieda Loscher, 'Austrian; Jean Fletcher, Swedish; Ingred Sorensen, Danish; Ruth Benson, Central German; Emily Myers, North German; Frances Tate, Berlin; Genevieve Gardner, South German; Carolyn Brugger, Servicemen's Relief Society Coordinator, European Mission. Not in the picture: Minnie P. Burton, European Mission; Agnes Jacobs, Bavarian; Marilyn Anderson, Finnish; Edith McIntire, West German Mission. Lower picture: Singing Mothers who presented music for the conference. Sister Brugger reports: "For three spiritually filled days, we met and partook of the spirit of our wonderful leaders. There were two special meetings for Relief Society, one a special workshop for presidents and secretaries, with specific helps given on the annual report. A skit was presented to point out better ways to prepare the narrative section of the report. A question and answer period was informative to all. "On the final morning of this conference, our lovely spiritual Relief Society session was held. Edith McIntire, of the West German Mission, gave a farewell tribute to Minnie P. Burton, thanking her, on behalf of all of us, for the willing service she has given. The Germans refer to Sister Burton by saying, 'Sie ist eine Dame' (She is a lady). This is a German's highest tribute to a woman. A cut crystal candy dish was presented to Sister Burton to remind her of the love and respect we feel for her. Sister Burton, in her remarks, asked that we open the door for the Savior. Sister Maxine Hanks, of the British Mission, expressed the desire that we all have the proper attitudes. Sister Freda Joan Lee, wife of our beloved apostle Harold B. Lee, expressed a hope that we would pray with our children. Each sister who spoke left her testimony and love with us. "Singing Mothers from all parts of Europe blended their voices and gave moving renditions in the Relief Society sessions, and in a general session of the conference. When we left the beautiful Bavarian Alps, we had a renewed desire for service and stronger testimonies, and we were indeed spiritually fed and physically uplifted." 460 JUNE 1964 Tacoma Stake (Washington), Tacoma First Ward Bazaar November 1963 Left to right: Rosella Seal, First Counselor; Marion Harris, President; Vera Casto, Second Counselor; Bessie Groom, work meeting leader. Jennie Wheeler, President, Tacoma Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of the Tacoma First Ward proved the worth of hard work in preparing for their bazaar. They made a total of $550. About $140 was earned from serving a turkey dinner the evening of the bazaar, and the remainder came from items made by the sisters during the year. The pillowcases draped over the front of the table were made by Anna Conquest, a sister who is eighty-one years old. She averages a pair of pillowcases a month, but the month before the bazaar she made three pairs. All are solid embroidery. Best sellers at the bazaar were eighteen sets of tea towels, plus some singles; a dozen sets of pillowcases, two dozen cloth balls, detergent bottle covers, eleven doll quilts, four large quilts (with orders for more); two dozen cloth hangers, aprons, and children's clothing. We certainly felt that this fund-raising activity was an outstanding example of diligence and cooperation." Reseda Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Different Occasions Merlene Colarusso, President, Reseda Stake Relief Society, reports: "In recent months, the Reseda Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers chorus has presented a spring concert, commemorated the Society's anniversary, given an autumn concert, and was featured in the stake Inter-Faith social. Maryann M. Mendenhall is chorister, and Carol C. Cook, organist." Whittier Stake (California) ''Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair' September 20, 1963 Left to right: Jean Ann Bowman and Jacqueline Kaline, two of ninetythree models who participated in the fashion show. Rea W. Jorgensen is president of Whittier Stake Relief Society, with Bette McDonough and Alta Ellis as her counselors. Sister Jorgensen reports: " 'Come to the Fair — Our Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair.' With these words, the Whittier Stake Relief Society set the stage for a full evening of festivity and fashion. An ingenious carousel and a giant pink horse delighted both models and spectators as the curtains parted. Musical numbers were interspersed with a colorful narration which kept the fair moving at a lively pace. Models, from toddlers to grandmothers, came on stage in small groups to view the wonder and excitement created with paint and paper. "This fashion fair was the culmination of a summer sewing school held in each ward of the stake. Ensembles for all occasions were proudly worn by those who had taken advantage of this wonderful opportunity afforded them by the Relief Society. Various fashions shown included morning, afternoon, and evening wear, children's apparel, mother and daughter outfits, maternity wear, and accessory magic. As each of the ninety-three models walked down the ramp toward the many gaily decorated booths, a capacity audience of nearly 450 applauded their appreciation for the efforts of these sisters." 462 Florida Mission, Florida West District Visiting Teachers Honored October 27, 1963 Front row, left to right: Carol Jean Sweetwood, theology class leader; Tottie Brown, visiting teacher adviser; Effie Tucker (thirty-four years of visiting teaching); Thursa Adisson (seventy-eight years old, oldest visiting teacher); Sister Wilson Allred, youngest visiting teacher; Stella Herring, President, West Florida District Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Nona Goodson, First Counselor; Florence Ewing, pianist; Dorothy Britsch, Secretary-Treasurer; Jo Ann Norton, Second Counselor; Tura Lee Buzzett, Magazine representative; Mary Etta Williamson, literature class leader. Loree Faircloth, social science class leader, and Gayle Farnsworth, chorister, were not present when the picture was taken. Ollie Hutchinson, President, Florida Mission Relief Society, reports: "The West Florida District honored the visiting teachers at leadership meeting, October 27, 1963. The film 'Unto the Least of These' was presented and enjoyed by all present. We feel that all were inspired by the meeting to be more prompt and faithful in magnifying their callings as visiting teachers. Corsages and Relief Society pins were presented to the sister with the most years of service, to the oldest sister, and to the youngest." Gooding Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Board October 1963 Front row, left to right: former President Nina Beth G. Cunningham; Education Counselor Rula B. Johnson; Work Director Counselor Ada H. Reid; Secretary-Treasurer Rue Spencer. Back row, standing, left to right: Nellie H. Weaver, chorister; Virgie T. Packer, organist; Viola J. Gold, Magazine representative; Mary G. Lancaster, visiting teacher message leader; Juanita Hendrix, work meeting leader; Lucille A. Gibbs, literature class leader. Ulden Shupe, social science class leader. Sister Cunningham reports: "For the first time in the history of Gooding Stake in Southern Idaho, the full stake board attended the Relief Society Annual General Conference in October 1963, with the exception of the theology class leader, which position was not filled at that time. These sisters expressed great appreciation for the wonderful inspiration and helps given by the capable General Board sisters, and by the General Authorities. Each of the stake board members in the picture has served for many years in Relief Society work, and has given faithful and devoted service." Elaine P. Dixon is the new president of Gooding Stake Relief Society. Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Relief Society Annual Christmas Exhibit November 21, 1963 Left to right: Annalesa Strom, a native of Sweden, who demonstrated Christmas customs in Sweden; Evelyn Lewis, Work Director Counselor, Cowley Ward; Helen Snell, work meeting leader, Cowley Ward. Pauline R. Stevens, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each ward exhibited outstanding work and demonstrated the Christmas customs of other lands and served each visitor with a taste of native foods served at Christmastime in that land. The stake Relief Society board served punch and pretty cookies to all who attended, from a beautiful Christmas table. The purpose of this exhibit each year is to help our own sisters and give them ideas for Christmas, and also to mterest nonmembers. It has grown so large we are afraid our cultural hall will not be large enough for one day's display. Between five and six hundred people attended." 464 JUNE 1964 North Davis Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Annual Christmas Concert, December 21, 1963 Susan W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'Amid the festive holiday splendor of poinsettias and holly, sixty Singing Mothers of the North Davis Stake sang songs of the Christmas season and hymns of praise to the Prince of Peace at their annual Christmas concert. It was an evening long to be remembered by families and friends who filled the chapel to overflowing. "The table in one foyer was decorated to depict an old-fashioned Christmas, with an oil lamp, bowls of shiny red apples and popcorn, and an old Bible opened to the Christmas story. Decorations in the other foyer portrayed "Peace on Earth," with a nativity scene, a Bible opened to Luke 2, candles and poinsettias. "The sisters were dressed in snowy white blouses and dark skirts, each with a colorful red Christmas corsage. As the narrator set the atmosphere for each musical number, colored slides of nativity scenes were shown to bring to our hearts the true spirit of Christmas. "Following the concert, refreshments, consisting of French pastries and fruited punch, were served at two beautifully decorated tables which added to the yuletide atmosphere. Iola Murray was the capable director of this lovely evening. The superb artistry upon the organ by Alice Gailey, and the equally beautiful accompaniment upon the piano by Marvetta Saunders (mother and daughter) were enjoyed by all. Talented guest artists presented special vocal and instrumental numbers. "These mothers have faithfully met at nine in the morning each Saturday to practice for the Christmas concert and stake conference. To be a Singing Mother is a joy and satisfaction which is held in high regard among our members. Susan W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, and her Counselors LaVon S. Reid and Vera Thurgood, and board members were responsible for the planning, decorations, and refreshments for this lovely and successful evening." 466 During the year 1832 et Joseph Smith the Prophng them in 4 body Was in Ohio of faithfy] followey | except for abo WO months In a day Whe €mphasis jg While L0ing to and from Jackson Placed upon Individual responsjounty, Missouy; leven of th bility to do Issionary Work, we fifteen Sections that ake Up this learn through the Proph t Joseph Series of | SSOnS Were received in Smith that no Tesponsible per- | 1832 "Y Consist of s me of the SOn in the Church; free from better-kno Tevelations im the this obligation So Principles Octrine Covenants an Y whic €n shall] b Judged are aspects o se revelations are mention d, and the ttitude O Presented All of l € saints toward those not of the a Ould he Tue Church are indic ted. Studied as Sources Wisdom and One of the great Priesthood fuldance nN life. Includeq for Tevelations of thi sPensation Study this €ar ig €ction 76 Was Teceived in 1832. € saints Which h been called the grandwere imbued With th esire to est and st Wonderfy] revelation learn More about the Zion of the on the qd Stiny of Man that has latter day nd it glory. The €ver been revealed he TINCiples temple to C built in Jackson of j Stice, mercy, and Ove are County, Missour; ound therein, and th € Magna. Of pe Involving the sa]- vation of m JUNE 1964 on how well the citizens of the kingdom of God, male and female, honor the Priesthood are found in this material. Other aspects of the Priesthood are considered, such as the healing of the sick in the true Church. The loyal saint accepts the interpretations of the revelations from the First Presidency. Several times during this dispensation some interpreters of revelations have been misled in their desire to foster their own interests, and they have departed from the time-tested principles which keep the kingdom of God a house of order. A lesson is devoted to a revelation which has given rise to much speculation. Always the saint has found safety in heeding the guidance received from the leadership of the Church. Concluding this year's lessons is one of the most remarkable prophecies of modern times. One of the functions of the Lord's prophet is to warn the world of the consequences of evil-doing. Joseph Smith's mission as a prophet is confirmed in the prophecy on the American Civil War and the other events mentioned in that revelation. If there has ever been a time when the saints should listen to the prophet's voice it is in this day of prophesied war and other calamities. The 1964-65 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 57 — The Vision (D&C 76:1-49). Objective: To study the origin of Section 76; its teachings concerning eternal progression; the vision of God and Christ; and the meaning of Satan's victory and his defeat. Lesson 58 — The Vision (concluded) (D&C 76:50-119). Objective: To study God's plan for the salvation of all his children who can be saved. Lesson 59 — The Church Independent (D&C 78, 83). Objective: To study some important aspects of the law of consecration and the importance of unity within the Church. Lesson 60 — Individual Responsibility as a Member and Missionary (D&C 79, 80, 81, 82). Objective: To show individual missionary responsibility and that the Lord is bound when you do as he says. Lesson 61 — The Revelation on Priesthood (D&C 84:1-42). Objective: To understand the importance of the Priesthood in the salvation of man; the special blessings available to this generation of Priesthood bearers; and the importance of the Priesthood as reflected in its oath and covenant. Lesson 62 — The Revelation on Priesthood (concluded) (D&C 84:43-120). Objective: To appreciate that the Lord has provided many ways by which man may know and understand the plan of salvation and the place of the Priesthood in the plan. 468 LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 63 — The One Mighty and Strong (D&C 85). Objective: To recognize the importance of adhering to the revelations of the Lord, and how claim to office may be tested. Lesson 64 — The Prophecies on Wars (D&C 86, 87). Objective: To understand the parable of the Wheat and the Tares and to study some prophecies given by Joseph Smith concerning the American Civil War and subsequent world events that witness him as a true prophet. Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Messages for 1964-65 Christine H. Robinson Tue Doctrine and Covenants, containing revelations and instructions given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, is our modern scripture designed to provide specific guidance to all of us in our daily lives. The pages of this remarkable scripture are full of fundamental truths which can help us achieve a higher level of joyous, purposeful living. The 1964-65 "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," as in previous years, present, emphasize, and _ illustrate specific character and personality traits necessary in the foundation of a full Christian life. For example, the 1964-65 messages discuss such important personal qualities and attitudes as obedience, thankfulness, unselfish service, resistance to temptation, the pitfalls and dangers involved in attempting to judge others, the importance of developing our own God-given talents, together with such fundamental truths as the fact that all men will be judged by their own works and that we must seek and understand the work of the Lord as the source of all truth. More specifically, the great principle of obedience is discussed in relation to the fact that all blessings from the Lord are based upon strict adherence to his laws and requirements. Moreover, when we follow the Lord's instructions he is bound to bestow upon us the blessings associated with this obedience. The important human attitude of thankfulness is discussed in relation to the effect it has in enlarging and glorifying the personality. In presenting the divine principle of unselfish service to others, emphasis is placed on the fact that joy and happiness come to those who are deeply concerned and interested in the welfare, success, and happiness of their neighbors. Each of these messages is developed so as to demonstrate how 469 JUNE 1964 the application of these living truths can improve our own lives and set the foundation for joyous, purposeful accomplishments. Again this year, these living tive examples designed to clarify the principles being taught and to motivate personal application. The 1964-65 visiting teacher messages and their objectives are as follows: truths are supported with illustraMessage 57 — ''Leave Judgment Alone With Me, for It Is Mine and | Will Repay' (D&C 82:23). Objective: To emphasize the importance to us of conscientiously and consistently avoiding the temptation to judge others. Message 58 — ''And He Who Receiveth All Things With Thankfulness Shall Be Made Glorious..."" (D&C 78:19). Objective: To emphasize the fact that thankfulness enlarges and glorifies the personality and radiates a spirit of friendliness. 7? Message 59 —"'Every Man Seeking the Interest of His Neighbor... D&C 82:19). Objective: To deserve the Lord's blessings, and the love of our neighbors, our actions must show genuine interest in and concern for others. Message 60 — **... That Every Man May Improve Upon His Talent, That Every Man May Gain Other Talents, Yea Even an Hundred Fold '' (D&C 82:18). Objective: To illustrate that as we develop the talents with which we have been blessed, our abilities will be magnified and expanded. Message 61 — 'Watch, for the Adversary Spreadeth His Dominions" (D&C 82:5). Objective: To emphasize the fact that Satan is working exceedingly hard to capture men's souls and that we must be eternally on guard. Message 62 — ''For the Word of the Lord Is Truth, and Whatsoever Is Truth Is Light..."" (D&C 84:45). Objective: To explain the nature of truth and to show the importance of searching for it constantly. Message 63 — ''For They Shall Be Judged According to Their Works, and Every Man Shall Receive According to His Own Works." (D&C 76:111). Objective: To be counted worthy and to receive the commendation of the Lord, our lives must be filled with fruitful actions. Message 64 — ''l, the Lord, Am Bound When Ye Do What | Say; But When Ye Do Not What | Say, Ye Have No Promise' (D&C 82:10). Objective: To show that only through obedience to the Lord's laws will promised blessings come. 470 JUNE 1964 Discussion 4: Home — A Haven of Happiness Objective: To discuss the tremendous import of the state of the home on the happiness of the family. Discussion 5: Using One's Resources to Find Happiness Objective: To appraise ways one can use those things she already possesses to further the happiness of her family and herself. Discussion 6: The Happiness That Comes From Work Objective: To observe the effect of work on one's happiness. Discussion 7: Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness (Part 1) Objective: To discuss the need for improving one's own power of expression as an asset to happiness. Discussion 8: Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness (Part 1) Objective: To point up the great need among family members and friends to understand each other through good communication. LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature — Textbook: Out of the Best Books: An Anthology of Literature. Part I: The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah Preview of Lessons for 1964-65 Dr. Bruce B. Clark F or the first time in its history the Relief Society organization is publishing its own textbook for use in the literature program for the two years ahead. As indicated above, the general title of the work is Out of the Best Books: An Anthology of Literature. Part I, just published, and intended for two years' use during 1964-65 and 1965-66, is sub-titled The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature. Parts II and III, now in preparation, are intended for use in subsequent years. The authors are Bruce B. Clark, Professor of English and Chairman of the English 472 Department at Brigham Young University, and Robert K. Thomas, Associate Professor of English and Director of the Honors Program at Brigham Young University. The principal idea behind the new book and the new literature program related to it is that the best way to study literature is to read it — that the work of literature itself is more important than anything that can be said about it or its author. Therefore, rather than emphasize historical and biographical matters, the new approach will emphasize the selections of literature themselves, often devoting a full lesson to just one or two short stories or poems. It would be desirable and beneficial to the Relief Society sisters if they would obtain copies of the new text and come to meetings prepared to discuss poems, stories, etc., contained therein. Fairly extensive comments on the selections are printed in the text, but these pertain principally to critical analysis and interpretation rather than to historical or biographical background. They are meant to supplement rather than substitute for a reading of the works themselves. Literature is vivid and exciting and provocative and inspiring — but only when it is read. And it should be read not only by the literature leaders but also by all of the Relief Society sisters. The selections in the new book — and therefore the lessons also —are arranged by theme (subject matter) rather than by time or country. In the past, several years have been spent on English literature, including two years on Shakespeare, and several years on American literature. Now the selections will be drawn from world literature — some modern and some ancient, some from one language and some from another, some of one type and some of another. Experience persuades us that the best story or poem for group discussion is one that focuses on some psychological, philLESSON DEPARTMENT osophical, or ethical question, yielding insight into human values, ideals, truths, problems, and frustrations. The new book contains selections rich in such insights, and these insights are emphasized in the textual analysis of the works. Three standards have _ controlled the selection of each poem or story included in the new text: (1) that it be literature of high quality; (2) that it explore subject matter and convey a message of value to the women of the Church and their families; (3) that it be written in such a way as to be understandable and meaningful to the readers for whom it is intended. This third point presents a special problem because the Relief Society membership includes women of such varied background. So that the book can be as useful and meaningful as possible, each section contains some relatively difficult selections and some relatively easy ones. Comments in the lessons in the Relief Society Magazine will suggest ways of using these selections for different groups. Also, the book contains in each section a number of "extra" selections, intended to supplement and enrich the lesson material itself and to provide reading material for use in the homes of the Relief Society sisters. The lesson titles and objectives for 1964-65 are as follows: Lesson 1 — The Appreciation and Criticism of Literature Objective: To develop the insight into literature which comes from an understanding of the principles of literary criticism. Lesson 2 — Literature ''Tasted... Swallowed... Digested"' Objective: To experience the variety and depth of literary insight. 473 JUNE 1964 Lesson 3 — Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part | Objective: To show how spiritual values and faith in God and man have been expressed through poetry. Lesson 4 — Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part Il Objective: To show further how spiritual values and faith in God and man have been expressed through poetry. Lesson 5 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part | Objective: To demonstrate how literature dramatizes the evil of worldly materialism and affirms higher values. Lesson 6 — Exploring. Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part Il Objective: To demonstrate how literature dramatizes the evil of selfishness and affirms the ideal of unselfishness. Lesson 7 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part Ill Objective: To show how literature exposes the waste of act vaeee and hypocrisy and affirms the worth of genuine righteousness and sincerity. Lesson 8 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part IV Objective: To show how literature recognizes the greater difficulty of seeing faults in oneself than of seeing them in other people. Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government Soe Ss Beet ee Sp eyue sec Preview of leszons fai 1964-65 Elder Ariel S. Ballif Eacu year the social science lessons of the Relief Society examine an area of human interaction, observe the forces producing human behavior, and consider ways and means of improving the stimulation for and raising the standard of behavior of the members of our society. In the first of the series on Divine Law and Church Government emphasis was placed on divine law as the basis for Church government, and on Church government as Priesthood in action. It was pointed out that divine 474 law has been continuously available to man, and that God's organization on earth is designed to give direction to the lives of human beings so that through faith and the exercise of intelligent choice one can obtain the fullness of his possibilities and, eventually, reach perfection. Divine law is not restrictive nor designed as a deterrent. On the contrary, it is creative and dynamic with the welfare of mankind as its objective. 'For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:39). In the lesson year 1963-64, attention was focused upon Church government as an effective and thoroughly organized unit fully providing for interrelations of the various parts, dominated by the divine nature of the Church as a whole. In the current series our effort is to see all human activity in the light of divine law. The design of the Creator for the perfection of mankind unfolds in the revelations of the divine will expressed in Church government. The basic function of Church government is "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man'? (Moses 1:39). Our attention is called to the fact that the law of God and his organization is devoted entirely to helping man achieve his greatest potential. Force is not the method, but counsel, persuasion, long-suffering, gentleness, meekness, and love unfeigned, together with the development of faith through inspiration and revelation, is God's'_ method. (D&C 121:41.) From this point of view, Church government should provide the direction for the activity of Church members. Every phase of life from birth to death, including the daily routine of making a living or solving the problems of society, should be included. Honesty, full respect for the rights of others, unselfishness and love of fellow men are the basic requirements for citizenship in the kingdom of God. "We should put forth every effort to supplant the aristocracy of wealth with the aristocracy of character and to LESSON DEPARTMENT SACRED MUSIC FOR THREE PART LADIES VOICES eaeABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen 20.---aillETERNAL LIFE Dungan.25 2s. GOD OF ALL NATURE—Tchaikovsky _.30 2 8GO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD—Madsen.25 OeHEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn _ 0.00.000 25 —. IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen.25 IN HIS STEPS—Wilson.25 I l I | I! L I | I l I l | | I | I I l | I I l i I | I a. LORD BLESS THEE AND | KEEP THEE—Madsen _.20 eeONWARD CHRISTIAN | SOLDIERS—Sullivan.30 I | l l I I | I | I i l l | | | | | l l l I | I! | Ls TWENTY THIRD PSALM—Schubert _._. 25 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval ee ee a ae a SE EEE, | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Please send the music indicated 1! | above. [1] On Approval ([] Charge H (] Money Enclosed ddress cncencccnnceesStaas ity and State AO>Z | Daynes Macc v 15 E. Lst South / Salt Lake City 11, Utah) JUNE 1964 awaken in the minds of the youth a realization that to be honest, to be dependable, to be a loyal citizen of the country, to be true to the standards of the Gospel are the noblest ideals of life" (McKay, President David O.: Church News, October 26, 1963, page 2). Priesthood is dynamic, demanding creativeness. Progress is the objective. Government of the Church has the challenge of growth and expansion until it touches the life of every human being upon the earth. As a successfully functioning organization it must produce evidence of the continual improvement of human conduct. The final product is the perfected individual, and the perfected human family. The function of Church government must embody all of the benefits of divine guidance. Satan's plan would have robbed man of progress. It would have taken away decision. It would have applied force instead of reason. Christ's plan provided for personal growth through initiative, decision-making, and creativity. His plan recognized the potential of Godhood in man and provided an organization through which man may enjoy unlimited development even to the perfection of the Father.* "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect"? (Matt. 5:48). Christ's government on earth as in the heavens must call forth the divine characteristics of man in overcoming selfishness, greed, and hate, and in controlling the appetites, disciplining the mind, and in stirring man with a neverending thirst for and the quest of knowledge. The following lesson outline for this year will give detailed expression to the ideas involved in the above discussion: Lesson 15 — The Application of Divine Law to Life Objective: To emphasize that religion and life are and must be one. Lesson 16 — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations Objective: To point out that the place of honor for the Priesthood in the home _ is claimed on meritorious behavior. Lesson 17—The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations (concluded) Objective: To show that the most effective method of character building is primarily a result of wholesome family relations. Lesson 18 — Priesthood Function and the Community Objective: To point out that the functioning of the Priesthood involves the total of human experience. Lesson 19 — The Value of Church Activity Objective: To show that activity in the Church is essential to the fulness of life. Lesson 20 — The Church Welfare Program Objective: To increase our understanding of the meaning and implications of brotherhood. Lesson 21 — Summary: Peace in the Hearts of Men Objective: To emphasize the vital role of the function of Church government in bringing about peace on the earth. 476 Ilda Elaine James There is a bliss in solitude of night When the grass is a mint of silver, softly bright, The crickets singing litanies of praise In harmony with our nights... Their days. Little branches weave their soothing fingers Across night's forehead, where peace lingers. Day's wounds are soothed, and languid air Rests the tired heart, for everywhere Is beauty's blanket mercifully spread Impartially over the living and the dead. In the garden, lilies whitely gleaming Invite us tenderly to share their dreaming. Star-jewelled sky — earth's counterpane, we rest — I'il say my prayers, and sleep upon her breast. WORLD'S FAIR — MAY TO OCTOBER — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours There will be several tours to the World's Fair including the Hill Cumorah Pageant. Tour leaving July 12, includes Hill Cumorah Pageant, World's Fair, Montreal and Quebec, Canada EUROPE — AUGUST, 1964 HAWAII JUNE 17 — OCTOBER 12 TOURS Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 2 eee eee 80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Oun EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 4101. == 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 477 | eA Welcome Sift for every Omemaker Cumorah Page ant, p> to August 23: aSsion Play Tour. Esther James Tours 460 7h Avenue L Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 _ EL 99-805} 478 SPECIAL 10 DAY TOUR One Year Old Fly to World's Fair for 3 days. Bus to Hill Cumorah Pageant, Sacred Grove, Christie Lund Coles oe a voo, Liberty Jail, Winter Quarters Today |! Taught her How to blow the fluff From a seeded dandelion., ALL PERSONALLY ESCOR Watching the dainty stuff ae Cemetery. "Let Us Help You Travel Worry Free'' Rise with the slightest breeze.! Watched her unbelief Call or Write At a bubble, rounded, Iridescent, brief. Wlurdock Jravel,! Saw her shape her lips, Inc. Blowing hard. After, | heard a small whistle, And her proud laughter. 14 South Main (Your Experienced Travel Counselor) Salt Lake City 328-3161 The Secret Eleanor W. Schow | learned a little secret, and this it proved to be, A tiny seed of regret for one scarce known to me, | knew its power at first sight; This little seed was dynamite. | saw fear of deep trouble within her eyes, and doubt; The heart must burn as stubble when gossip flies about; And so within the heart of me | hid that seed where none could see. Then with apparent blindness | left it very still, And fed by loving kindness it throve and grew until One day it bloomed, and all could see Sweet fragrant flowers of love for me. Ninety-nine Mrs. Sarah Elizabeth Wilson Young Sanford, Colorado Ninety-seven Mrs. Milicent Curtis Smith Bakersfield, California Ninety-four Mrs. Mary Lou Farr Driver San Diego, California Mrs. Mary Glines Tridell, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Polly Walker Harris Orem, Utah Mrs. Sarah Jones Harman Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Mary Jane Lythgoe Burton Kaysville, Utah Roseanna Neagle Lunt Cedar City, Utah Mrs. Lydia Elliott O'Kelley Prineville, Oregon Mrs. Josephine King Straw Tracy, California Ninety-one Mrs. Lilly Hatch Eldridge Woods Cross, Utah Mrs. Jennie Tingen Bragonje Washington Terrace, Utah Mrs. Wilhelmina Bell Gillett Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Phoebe Ann Reeves Davies Kanarraville, Utah Mrs. Sarah Humphreys Passey Thayne, Wyoming Mrs. Maria Elizabeth C. Brothers Sanford, Colorado Mrs. Anna Edling Wahlquist Murray, Utah Mrs. Jessie S. Rollins Harris Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Felts Flagstaff, Arizona Enchanted Vesta N. Fairbairn Warm scent Of fragrant pine, A fair, faint view, haze-veiled, And drowsy bird song make summer Magic. 480 New from Deseret Book Relief Society Reading Course Volume OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS —-An Anthology of Literature, Volume I (The Individual and Human Values) by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Here it is! The first in a series of analysis of fine world literature. Out of the Best Books, Volume I. Is the exciting, new Relief Society course outline for the '64-'65 and '65-'66 years. Great literature from the pens of men like Robert Browning, William Wordsworth, Robert Burns, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and many others come to life with more meaning in this exciting volume. Here is a valuable addition to every LDS library! Deseret Book Company COM PANY AST SO. TEMPLE AN Gxedepee. 'te 44. East South Temple, 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT C w " ie | SALT LAKE CITY Salt Lake City, Utah os = Ld 2, cP i 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN Dear Sir: Enclose d please find $2.95 for 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA 2 my copy of Out of the Best Books Volume | Money Order [7], Check], I have an account, please charge (] -—. A S$ —> SE S Se Ah [o) Residents of Utah add 32% sales tax. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah and brown Sugar 
