Quest Lucille Rampton Perry
Brown roads in April lead where uplands lie
Uncovered by the sudden warmth of spring;
Brown roads in April wander where the high
Ridges of the hills are blossoming.
They thrust through thickets laced with green,
And stretch their length along the lazy field;
Steeply up the wrinkled slope they lean
Their rutted path, nor do their yearnings yield
To snows that signal winter's last protest,
But up they wander, and they bid our feet
To follow them upon the joyous quest
For life renewed where earth and heaven meet.

April 1964 Vol 51, Number 4
. The Relief Society Magazine Volume 51 Number 4 April 1964 Special Short Story Issue May I congratulate you on our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. I can hardly wait each month to get my copy — each one with such a beautiful cover. The lovely inspiring talks, stories, and poems, not to mention the wonderful lessons, are appreciated by me. Mrs. Tena V. Dorp Van der Ende Redondo Beach, California I want to thank you for The Relief Society Magazine and its guidance for the Relief Society program. I am sure our Father is pleased with the wonderful inspirational lessons and the uplift the whole program gives to the sisters. I am a young mother of four and I certainly look forward to Relief Society meeting. It really inspires me in my dealings with my husband and family. Mrs. Kaye Sims Seattle, Washington I just had to drop you a note and tell you how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. It is a real inspiration. I was especially thrilled with the conclusion of Rosa Lee Lloyd's serial "Kiss of the Wind" (February 1964). It was such a sweet, inspiring story. I feel as if I had been to Hawaii. I look forward to more of Mrs. Lloyd's stories. I loved her serial about Alaska, too. Claire Farrer Salt Lake City, Utah I just had to sit down and tell you how much I enjoyed reading "Kiss of the Wind," by Rosa Lee Lloyd. It was a wonderful story. The Magazine is a helpmeet in my life. Mrs. Carol Kemple North Las Vegas, Nevada Ler tial ' Sy I simply must write and tell you how outstanding our little Magazine is. I love the color added to each page — it makes the Magazine even more beautiful. Each cover is a collector's item in itself. So thanks so much for a clean, wholesome, edifying Magazine — a true gem in our times. Nora O. Caldwell Corvallis, Montana What a wonderful story just concluded in the February issue of the Magazine, such a splendid picture of Hawaiian life ("Kiss of the Wind," by Rosa Lee Lloyd). I love the lesson material very much, and the recipes are delightful. Helen H. Stickler Salt Lake City, Utah Of all the contents of the February Magazine, I enjoyed the editorial most ("The Words That Women Write," by Vesta P. Crawford). It touched me where I live. The new serial ("Your Heart to Understanding," by Hazel M. Thomson) got off to a good start. The characterization of Belle is good, and the action moves in a straight line. The second prize story ("Mama Lives in the Kitchen," by Lael J. Littke), I thought good, except for the fact that a woman with three children, ages three, ten, and sixteen, should not have been so overwhelmed with kitchen work, unless she really wanted to do it, which, I suppose, is the point of the story. The frontispiece poem ("Sonnet to the Sea," by Alice Morrey Bailey) I love, and I am thankful I have had the delight of being on that very spot in Monterey. Dorothy Clapp Robinson Boise, Idaho 

APRIL 1964 VOLUME 51 NUMBER 4
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford
Special Features
244 Exalting the Poor John H. Vandenberg
250 Marjorie C. Pingree Appointed to the General Board Elizabeth B. Winters
251 Darlene C. Dedekind Appointed to the General Board Irene W. Buehner
252 Cleone R. Eccles Appointed to the General Board Jeanette M. Morrell
253 The Worth of The Relief Society Magazine T. Bowring Woodbury
270 Springtime Thoughts of a Happy Woman Caroline Eyring Miner
275 Cancer's Two Deadly Gaps American Cancer Society
Fiction -Special April Short Stories
256 The Storm Lila Spencer
263 More Blessed to Receive Nita Ellis
276 Please, Not This One Merle E. Feriante
283 Be Yourself Betty G. Spencer
303 Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 3 Hazel M. Thomson
General Features
242 From Near and Far
271 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon
272 Editorial: Relief Society Time at the New York World's Fair
Marianne C. Sharp
274 Notes to the Field: Lesson Previews to Appear in the June Issue of
The Relief Society Magazine
310 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker
320 Birthday Congratulations
The Home -Inside and Out
289 Application Louise Murray
291 Stretching the Food Budget
Part VI — Make the Most of Economical Cuts of Meat Sadie O. Morris
295 The Other Day Christie Lund Coles
296 How About a "Get It Done Day"? Vera Stocker
297 It Was Springtime Evelyn Fjeldsted
298 Round-Table Togetherness Violet Nimmo
300 Cover-Ups for Older Tots Adelle Ashby
302 Sara C. Bowles Makes Many Quilts and Quilted Bedspreads
Poetry
241 Quest — Frontispiece Lucille Rampton Perry
Neighbor Child, by Margery S. Stewart, 249: Enchanted Valley, by Sylvia Probst Young,
261; Spring's Impulse, by Thelma J. Lund, 262; Quintet for Spring, by Hazel Loomis, 269;
The Warblers, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 274; Earth Renewed, by Grace Barker Wilson, 275;
Desert in Springtime, by Ethel Jacobson, 281; His Forgiving Way, by Viola Ashton Candland,
282; Gift Apron, by Beulah Huish Sadleir, 288; The Heavens Proclaim, by Veda G. Linford,
289; Spring Fashion, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 290; Stimulus, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 290;
Empty Nest, by Ida Elaine James, 294; An Evening Thought, by Catherine B. Bowles, 295;
Halfway, by Zara Sabin, 299; Deserted Farm House, by Annie Atkin Tanner, 309; Sleep,
by Iris W. Schow, 317; Thank You, by Lorretta Hanson, 318; Zaccheus, by Linnie Fisher
Robinson, 319.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act. Of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

 Exalting the Poor Presiding Bishop John H. Vandenberg [Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1963] I feel vexy humble and grateful, my dear sisters, to participate with you in this conference of Relief Society leaders. It has been suggested that I say something concerning the Relief Society's responsibility toward the welfare program in the wards and stakes of the Church. One of the distinguishing features of the Church is its organization of which the Relief Society is one of the strong facets. The Prophet Joseph Smith said, "I will organize the sisters under the priesthood after a pattern of the priesthood," and then later he said, "This church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized.""! One never thinks of welfare work in the Church without thinking of the Relief Society. Elder Albert E. Bowen once said, "A church is an organization for the orderly carrying out of practices enjoined. Organization means order. Lack of it means frustration and chaos. It is important to note that for every command God has given he has provided means for carrying it out.'"? The Savior was deeply concerned about those in need and gave particular attention to the requirement of taking care of the poor, to those who would serve him. "If thou wilt be perfect," he said to the rich young 244 man, "go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor.' His apostles continued his doctrine. "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world.'"* In this latter day, a special injunction has come to the bishop in "Searching after the poor to administer to their wants.'R Further, ''and it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it needs be in mine own way." The welfare plan is the Lord's own way and encompasses all the instructions that have just been referred to. President Heber J. Grant declared, "This is one of the greatest and most important things the Church has ever undertaken to put over, and it will be put over because we have the ability — and the power to do it.'"R I like to think that when President Grant spoke of the "'ability" he was thinking of the devoted women in the Relief Society with their characteristics of tenderness, mercy, warmth, love, understanding, and ability to "provoke the brethren to good works." When he spoke of the "power" he was thinking of the Priesthood, its organization, and the Priesthood bearers' devotion to the Church. The combination of the two operating together cannot fail. THE objectives of the welfare plan are continuous and varied. They may, however, be generally thought of as belonging to two categories — immediate and ultimate. The immediate objective is to render necessary assistance, to see that "all should be cared for, no one should suffer, no one should be hungry, no one unclothed, no one without shelter." Where it is reported that a family is in need, the bishop investigates that need by counseling with the family. Upon his recommendation, he directs the Relief Society president to visit the home to ascertain what may be necessary for the proper consideration of the case. If the family is found to be destitute of food or clothing or other needful items, the Relief Society president at once reports to the bishop with her recommendation — and an order to the storehouse is then issued by the bishop to supply the immediate needs. They do not wait for an extended analysis. Then follows the real work of analyzing and rehabilitating the family into a self-sustaining program. It is here that the Relief Society is responsible smoothly and efficiently to assist the bishop. Today, the standard of living is generally considered to be greatly improved over the conditions of the nineteen thirties; but there are many who are in need, and the welfare plan is operating more effectively than EXALTING THE POOR ever in helping to care for physical needs. Realistically, we are meeting this challenge, and the Relief Society is efficiently carrying out the assignments given to it by the Priesthood, both in the rendering of assistance and in the production of commodities. The ultimate objective is to "help people to help themselves." True charity is more than just giving, it is to help one to lift himself so that he can independently maintain himself. It has been said: The real long term objective of the Welfare Plan is the building of character in the members of the Church, givers and receivers, rescuing all that is finest down deep in the inside of them and bringing to flower and fruitage the latent richness of the spirit which after all is the mission and purpose and reason for being of this Church.' James Allen once said: Man is a growth by law, and not a creation by artifice, and cause and effect are as absolute and undeviating in the hidden realm of thought as in the world of visible and material things. A noble and Godlike character is not a thing of favour or chance, but is the natural result of continued effort in right thinking, the effect of long cherished association with Godlike thoughts. It would appear, then, that there is need to prepare the minds of the people with the great virtues of the plan. This being the case where do we start? THE apostle Paul suggests that the home is where true charity begins. He said: "But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel.'R 245 APRIL 1964 The home is where the Prophet Joseph Smith placed the emphasis when he said to the Relief Society: To illustrate the object of the Society, that the Society of Sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking after the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants, to assist, by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community.1° The home is the fortress of the Church. The home is the place to build the character of the people. The home is where the morals may be corrected to strengthen the virtues of the community. Our lives and conduct must be such as to invite the spirit of the Lord to dwell in our homes. When we think of the Relief Society, we think of the mothers in the Church. The mothers are the center of the lives of all Church members — children and husbands, alike. The Relief Society, because of its direct line through the mothers into the homes of the Church, is a potent agency through which we can hope to achieve the ultimate welfare goal of the Church. George Hubert said, "A good mother equals a hundred schoolmasters. George Washington, the eldest of five children, was only eleven years of age when his father died. His mother was a woman of extraordinary ability who handled her responsibilities with success." No assignment in the Relief Society should ever be considered as an excuse to neglect the home. You, as leaders in the Relief Society, must set the example in 246 the home and promote peace and love therein. Again, let me remind you that the home is the fortress of the Church. Keep it strong by properly teaching the mothers in the arts of homemaking. It has also been said, and I quote: The greatest literary artist in American History, Nathaniel Hawthorne, not only owed his success to the daily inspiration of his good wife, but also his only opportunity to compose first his mind and then his masterpiece. If it had not been for Sophia, perhaps we should not now remember Hawthorne. He lost his job in the custom house. A broken-hearted man, he went home to tell his wife that he was a failure. To his amazement she beamed with joy. "Now you can write your book." He said, "Yes, and what shall we live on while I am writing it?" She opened the drawer and took out an unsuspected hoard of cash. "Where on earth did you get it?" She said, "I have always known you were a man of genius. I knew someday you would write an immortal masterpiece. Out of the money you gave me I have saved a little — here is enough to last us for a whole year." Hawthorne sat down and wrote one of his finest books, The Scarlet Letter. UNLESS we pursue organization and correction through the homes, the homes will perpetuate the need of welfare. Children who are reared in the environment of | a home sustained on direct relief are more likely to follow this pattern all their lives. Direct relief all too often invites the curse of idleness and fosters other evil of dole. The analysis of the cause the need should point the dir tion for us to follow. We usu: find that need arises from of the following causes: Sickness — This may be of a temporary nature or of long duration. It is here that the visiting of the sick by the Relief Society is so urgent. First, we should be diligent to discover the conditions of the needy and, second, give the necessary assistance dictated by the circumstances. Failure to manage economic affairs — In our efforts to exalt the poor, we must teach the management of financial affairs. Abraham Lincoln gave us a key when he said: You cannot bring about prosperity by discouraging thrift. You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the strong. You cannot help the poor by destroying the rich. You cannot establish sound security on borrowed money. You cannot escape trouble by spending more than you earn. You cannot build character by taking away a man's initiative and independence. You cannot help men permanently by doing for them what they could and should have done for themselves. I should think that the Relief Society can do much good in training the mothers in the proper handling of money — helping them to set up a budget and to teach the habits of thrift and home management. Indeed, a concentrated effort should be made in this respect, for so many of our people have little understanding of the principle of budgeting and making accounts. Benjamin Franklin told of the effectiveness of this virtue. He said: In 1733 I sent one of my journeymen to Charleston, South Carolina, where a printer was wanting. I furnished him with a press and letters, EXALTING THE POOR on an agreement of partnership by which I was to receive one third of the profits of the business, paying one third of the expense. He was a man of learning and honest but ignorant of the matters of account, and tho' he sometimes made me remittance, I could get no account from him, nor any satisfactory state of our partnership while he lived. On _ his decease the business was continued by his widow, who being born and bred in Holland, where as I have been informed, the knowledge of accounts makes part of a female education, she not only sent me as clear a statement as she could find of the transactions past, but continued to account with greatest regularity and exactness every quarter afterwards, and managed the business with such success that she not only brought up respectably a family of children, but at the expiration of the time was able to purchase of me the printing house and established her son in it. Sisters, the bishops have been charged by the Lord with the responsibility of managing the affairs of the poor — they need your help to avoid waste, to teach mothers to operate their homes on a budget, not to overextend themselves financially, learn to live simply, overcome extravagant habits, and avoid unnecessary debt. Idleness — This problem is, no doubt, caused by environment and, although it has been stated, "He that is idle shall not eat the bread... Of the laborer," it does not relieve us of the responsibility to help, but rather gives us a challenge to teach the idler the blessings of labor that he may enjoy the virtue of industry. Once having been taught this, it will add greatly to his character. Lack of Education — Today, one of the serious problems is the lack of training and education of those unemployed. In this 247 APRIL 1964 day of mechanical advancement and automation, specialized and technical training is a must to continuous employment. "During periods of unemployment," one prominent financial writer states, '"'there are four times as many men with less than high school education unemployed as compared to those men with more than a high school education." With more schooling, men not only tend to have more job security but also tend to earn more. The United States Department of Labor has published statistics based on the 1958 Census figures which compare the average earnings of high school graduates, high school "dropouts," and eighth grade graduates. These figures indicate that a high school graduate's earning capacity is greater by approximately $2,000 a year. Let's reduce this figure to $1,500 for illustrative purposes. Using this figure, if a young man should at age twentyone deposit his extra earnings each year in the bank at 4% interest compounded semiannually, at the age of sixty-five he would have saved $176,874.21. To find out how much each day of high school attendance would be worth in terms of probable future lifetime earnings, let us divide the $176,874.21 by 700 days of high school attendance. Each day spent in high school would thus be worth $252.67. The difference between the probable lifetime earnings of a person with four or more years of college, as compared with the high school graduate, would be approximately $3,000 a year. You will recognize that the 248 failure of youth to seek adequate education and training may become a serious handicap through their whole life. President David O. McKay states, "Students enter school primarily to gain economic and social advantage. But this aim is not always achieved, nor is it, nor should it be, the highest purpose of education. However, we must not underestimate the value of obtaining an education for a livelihood. Education for economic advancement is a good investment for the individual as well as for the state." Many mothers do not realize the importance of seeing that their sons and daughters secure the proper education needed to keep pace with the demands of employment. We must take advantage of every opportunity to teach and warn parents of the serious consequences that arise when children become _ school "dropouts." Handicap — What a wonderful thing it would be for the Relief Society in the wards to seek out the handicapped; to see what might be done to provide a program to have them feel the thrill of achievement. Death — Particular attention should be given to every family where death strikes. The love - and warmth rendered by the Relief Society have been so beneficial. Where serious problems arise because of the passing of the father or mother, special attention is to be given by the Relief Society under the direction of the bishop. Thus, in summary, some of the responsibilities of the Relief Society in the welfare program are: 1. To assist the Priesthood in rendering immediate help and the ultimate rehabilitation of the needy. 2. To strengthen the homes and train the mothers in the arts of homemaking, including financial management. 3. To teach mothers the necessity of adequate training and education for their sons and daughters. 4. To administer to the needs of the sick and the handicapped. 5. To bring comfort and understanding to families where death is experienced. 6. To live the principles of the gospel — teach by example and precept. In closing, let me suggest the words of our prophet David O. EXALTING THE POOR McKay, "The greatest blessings that will accrue from the Church Security Plan are spiritual. Outwardly, every act seems to be directed toward the physical — remaking of dresses and suits of clothes, canning fruits and vegetables, storing foodstuffs, choosing of fertile fields for settlement — but permeating all these acts, inspiring and sanctifying them, is the element of spirituality." May the Lord bless us as we serve together in this great welfare program is my humble prayer. And I ask it-in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. \The Relief Society Magazine VI, 129 2The Church Welfare Plan, page 2 3Mt. 19:21 4James 1:27 5D&C 84:112 6The Church Welfare Plan, page 3 7The Church Welfare Plan, page 44 8As a Man Thinketh, page 8 9T Tim. 5:8 10Relief Society Minutes, March 17, 1842 11Gospel Ideals, page 429 Neighbor Child Margery S. Stewart She does not wait to be asked in, Rings the bell... Darts under my arm, Skips like a sparrow around The minutes, picking up brief worms Of my greeting. | love you, she says. The words are three sickles. We stand waiting. She must see all the windows at once, Ask all the questions in a tumble, Put the pale tongue of her finger On everything she passes. | love, she says, Everything becomes still... - Waiting.... Like a pond for another pebble perhaps? No. Like the kitten for another leap From the long dead cicada? No. | look at the child and she looks At my mouth... Willing it to form Words. | love, she says; The teacher waits in her eyes. | love you, | say unhappily. She takes the three stones, Blesses them, And departs. 249 Marjorie C. Pingree Appointed to the General Board Elizabeth B. Winters Member, General Board of Relief Society Miarsorie Cannon Pingree was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society on January 15, 1964. She was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, a daughter of Lewis M. Cannon (son of Angus M. Cannon, who served as president of Salt Lake Stake for twentyeight years) and Mary Alice Cannon, daughter of George Q. Cannon. Her mother died when she was five years old, and her father, who had served as a bishop for twenty-two years, died when Marjorie was in college. Mrs. Pingree was educated in the Salt Lake City schools, was graduated from the University of Utah, and taught school for three years. She has served in many positions of leadership in the Church, including ward Primary president; a member of the Ensign Stake Primary Board; YWMIA teacher and counselor in her ward; president of Ensign Second Ward Relief Society; literature class leader in her ward. Literature has always held special interest for her. In 1928 Marjorie Cannon and J. Fred Pingree were married in the Salt Lake temple. Brother Pingree is a Salt Lake City business man. He has served as Ensign Stake clerk and _ has been a member of the stake High Council for fifteen years. The Pingrees have four children: Patricia (Mrs. Vernon B. Rom- 250 ney), who served as a stake missionary in Washington, D. C., and is now a member of the General Board of the Primary Association; J. Fred, Jr., who served as a missionary in Central America; George C., who served in the New England Mission, and is now a medical doctor with the armed forces in France; John C., who served a mission in Argentina. All of the sons were called as counselors to their respective mission presidents. The daughter and sons, like their parents, are all graduates of the University of Utah. She has nine grandchildren. - Sister Pingree brings to the General Board her outstanding ability, experience, a gracious personality, devotion to the Church, and a _ willingness to serve. Darlene C. Dedekind Appointed to the General Board Irene W. Buehner Member General Board of Relief Society DARLENE Christensen Dedekind was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, January 15, 1964. She has accepted this responsibility with a sweet spirit of humility and willingness to serve our Heavenly Father. Her wide background of rich spiritual experience in Church service ably qualifies her for her new position. Sister Dedekind is the daughter of Emilius A. And Ellen J. Pehrson Christensen. She was born in Fairview, Utah. Her father was a convert from Copenhagen, Denmark. These two devoted Latter-day Saints endowed their children with an abiding appreciation for the gospel, as well as a gift for gracious living. The family has lived in Salt Lake City, Kansas City, Minneapolis, and Chicago. After one year of college she was called to serve in the Texas Mission under President ElRay L. Christiansen. She has attended the University of Utah and the University of Minnesota. On July 25, 1941, in the Salt Lake Temple, she was married to Dr. Kenneth L. Dedekind, an oral surgeon. They are the parents of three lovely daughters, Kendra Lyn, a junior at the University of Utah; Deborah Ceanne, a freshman at the University of Utah; and Sandra Jo, a junior at East High School. During the years Sister Dedekind has demonstrated her love for the gospel and her leadership ability by serving in YWMIA ward presidencies, Hillside Stake Primary presidency, and ward Relief Society presidencies. At the time of her appointment to the General Board she was serving as a Monument Park Stake missionary, as well as a ward social science class leader. Sister Dedekind, faithful to her heritage, has created a completely gracious, charming home for her family. She embodies and radiates the sterling qualities of dignity, gentility, and humility. Surely these attributes, coupled with her sincere testimony of the gospel and earnest desire to serve, will enable her to magnify the call which has come to her and add great strength to the General Board. 251 Cleone R. Eccles Appointed to the General Board Jeanette M. Morrell C. LEONE Rich Eccles was appointed to the General Board of the Relief Society on January 15, 1964. She has a noble heritage, a fervent testimony of the gospel, a charming personality, and a background of travel and experience. She is the granddaughter of apostle Charles C. Rich, and the daughter of Dr. Edward I. Rich and Emily Almira Cozzens, pioneers in the professional and cultural development of Weber County. Her mother was Mount Ogden Stake president of the Relief Society for twenty-three years, so she was reared in an atmosphere of the highest ideals of Relief Society. She attended the New England Conservatory of Music, where she received professional training on the violin. During her entire life she has been most generous in sharing her great talent. She married Royal Eccles in the Salt Lake Temple on August 22, 1918. He passed away February 5, 1963. They are the parents of six children: Maren EK. Hardy (Washington D. C.); Cleone E. Yeates (Salt Lake City, Utah); Claire E. Matthies (Ogden, Utah); Edward Rich Eccles (deceased); Myrelle E. Thomas (Salt Lake City, Utah); Justin Rich Eccles (Los Alamitos, California). She has been active in civic 252 affairs, serving as a member of the Weber County Welfare Board from 1937 to 1955. In musical circles she served as a member of the Utah State Symphony Board. She was active in bringing the Community Concert Association to Ogden, and was vice-president of that organization from 1935 to 1956. Her Church activities have included seven years as Sunday School teacher; four years as stake president of the Mount Ogden YWMIA; four years as president of the Twelfth Ward Relief Society; four years as president of the Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society; and five years as literature class leader in her home ward Relief Society. Her capacity for sympathetic understanding and her unselfish desire to serve in any capacity, will make her a valuable member of the Relief Society General Board. Magazine T. Bowring Woodbury Former President, British Mission Your wonderful increase in Magazine subscriptions over last year great record, and However, aS I outstanding body of women, 1 am reminded of the story of the Washington, D. C., tourist who was being driven in the cab around the city. As they came to one Federal building, over the archway were the words, "The past prologues the future." As the tourist pondered those words, he finally asked the cab driver what they meant. The "cabbie" replied, "That simply means, 'You ain't heard nuthin' yet." And, I believe, as outstanding as the increase for this year is, "we gin't heard nuthin' yet," as far as you sisters are concerned. T am always impressed as af read the 12th Chapter of Revelation, and J ohn recalls to us the great war in heaven when Satan and his angels were cast out, that this did not end the war; the battleground mere ly changed places. For, John tells us, '"Therefore rejoice, Ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Woe to the snhabiters of the earth and of the sea! For the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time." We see Satan's influence everywhere on the earth. We see it particularly in the magazines of the world, where we not only know pornography as commonplace, but, worse almost than that, the innocuous articles in women's magazines that tell of the "thrill" of young mothers g0- ing back to school to get their degrees, and mothers leaving famitake positions that are etc. Every i0- fluence is exerted to take mother love, her presence, and her constant teachings. Stands The Relief Society Magazine, combating the influences of the evil one and fighting the fight down here where the battle still rages for men's souls. APRIL 1964 In 1959 in Great Britain, when we organized the district auxiliary boards to help prepare our people for stakehood, a challenge was issued to each division of the mission board. The first instructions to the Relief Society Board were, "The Relief Society Magazine should be in every member's home to increase the spirituality, to combat evil influences, to improve the attendance at Relief Society, and to help the family to be homecentered in its life." It was suggested that The Relief Society Magazine was the mortar that would hold these objectives together and build a strong building of preparedness for stakehood. It was outlined that The Relief Society Magazine would be the stimulator, the motivator, and the blueprint for perfection and progress in personal lives, in family life, and in organizational accomplishment in the mission. How well the sisters succeeded in their objective is seen in the fact that, for the first time in British Mission history, in 1960, 107% of the members' families took The Relief Society Magazine, and the mission was on the Honor Roll. In 1961, the British Mission led all missions of the Church, with 147% of the families taking the Magazine. And as far as accomplishing the purpose of preparation for stakehood, where there were no stakes in 1959, there are now six stakes in the original British Mission. Out of this wide circulation came some wonderful stories that show The Relief Society Magazine is great for husbands, that it is an ideal missionary, and that the Magazine reactivates members 254 and brings within them a desire to serve. For example: Roy Caddick, now in the stake presidency of the Manchester Stake, is a schoolteacher. He had completely forgotten his assignment to be the teacher-speaker at a faculty meeting on Monday morning. When he awakened to his assignment early on Monday morning, all he had in his pocket was his wife's copy of The Relief Society Magazine. He became absorbed reading the literature lesson on Shakespeare's Hamlet. Standing to give his talk, he repeated what he had read in the Relief Society literature lesson. When he had completed his talk, the headmaster arose and said something like this: "We want to compliment Mr. Caddick on his excellent preparation. I don't know how many books he must have read to give us this comprehensive and fresh talk on Shakespeare's Hamlet, but I do know it has been the finest faculty talk we have had this year. We commend him for his example, and for his study." As a missionary, The Relief Society Magazine has no peer. One of the ardent solicitors in the British Mission saw a new sister in church. She asked her to subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine. She did so, even though this was her first visit to a strange church. With each succeeding copy she became engrossed in this great women's Magazine that taught every good facet of life. She was inspired by the theology lessons. She was engrossed in the social science lessons. She was interested in the culture of the literature lessons. And she was really excited about the work meeting suggestions. Surely, the Church that published such an uplifting and wellrounded Magazine must be inspired. She began coming to Relief Society, and her discussions with the missionaries were merely perfunctory; she had already been converted by the Magazine. AS a means of binding one to the Church, fellowshipping a new convert, or even bringing one back into activity, The Relief Society Magazine stands alone. For instance: a new member went to Relief Society for the first time and subscribed to the Magazine. The woman giving the lesson evidently was unprepared, and our new member was very disinterested to the point that she thought she would not go again. Shortly, the Magazine began arriving in her home. She read it from cover to cover. When she came to the lesson material that the unprepared sister had poorly given, she read it and thought, why this is beautiful. I guess I didn't understand it. She decided she must be a part of the discussion of the lessons which she was enjoying reading. The Magazine had aroused her interest, rejuvenated her spirit, and rekindled her desire to be a part of the kingdom. Yes, The Relief Society Magazine is a great power, an influence, and a factor of worth in our fight with Satan. I have been reading it for thirty-five years. When on my first mission to Switzerland, as a young boy, I was given the assignment of working with the Relief Society. In our thirty years of marriage, I THE WORTH OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE have read with Sister Woodbury her lessons, as she has prepared to teach, first the literature lessons, then the theology lessons, and, currently, the social science lessons. I think the Magazine is better today than it has ever been — in content, in uplift, and, surely, in make-up. I think the covers of recent months have been frame-worthy — each of them. The new headings in color are exciting, and the practical articles such as "Stretching the Food Budget" present worthwhile ideas for this day of devalued dollars. Now, I would like to issue a challenge to all of you sisters who represent the leadership of Magazine sales in your stakes, missions, and _ districts. The Savior held out perfection to us, which, to me, means 100%. There should not be a single Relief Society in this Church which is not getting 100%. That is assumed! That is perfection! But more than that, the Savior said that those who should ask you to go one mile, "go with him twain." In other words, go the extra mile! If you are asked to go one, go two! I would like to challenge every Relief Society to get 200% as a minimum goal for 1964. If every member is a missionary and every member is to bring in another member, I can't think of a finer way to begin this accomplishment than by giving a subscription to your fine neighbor friend who is a non-Mormon, or getting her to subscribe to this spiritual, uplifting Magazine. Let us all go the extra mile and get that extra mile smile in 1964 with 200%. 255 Art four o'clock that winter day a slender girl with the still, pale face of a cameo climbed aboard the bus. It was almost dusk, and a brisk wind whipped Miriam's fur coat about her legs as she stepped up. There were only four other passengers. A mother in a worn cloth coat occupied one seat, and beside her was a lunch hamper. Her two little girls in red snowsuits and red mittens bounced up and down in the seats behind her, chanting, '""We're going to visit Grandma! We're going to visit Grandma!" They stopped just long enough to call out a merry "Hi!" in Miriam's direction. Across the aisle and a few seats back, a young man in spectacles nervously checked through a bulging briefcase. The motor of the bus had been purring quietly for some time before the driver walked through and took their tickets. Then he folded himself into the driver's seat with a quizzical glance out the window, and the bus began to move. Miriam tried to relax in her 256 seat, ignoring the friendliness of the children. Ever since the unexpected termination of her engagement the week before, she had been an automaton, armored against the world, numb and frozen. After a sudden decision in the night she had hurried all day to get away. Escape and isolation — that was what she wanted. Were they the answer to her unhappiness? She snuggled down in her fur coat and buried her face in its collar. Her heart felt as bleak as the cold gray city streets outside. Mechanically, with cold eyes, she watched the changing winter scene as the bus left the city limits and moved into the country. As she glanced at the evening sky a faint foreboding touched her. She looked at the highway, and snow was sifting across the road in quick continuous series like troubled ripples on windswept' water. There was nothing to worry about yet. There was something comforting in the chatter of the little girls and the rustling papers of the young man. The miles sped by; Miriam dozed. A sudden lurching of the bus awakened her, and then she, as all the others, was on the edge of her seat, staring with worried eyes at the road ahead. The ripples had become waves of snow that whipped across the road in great gusts. In the nearby fields the cattle, hoary with snow, stood with their backs humped against the storm. The bus was traveling much slower; it swayed with the heavy gusts. Miriam turned her eyes from the road to look at her fellow passengers. The mother still sat on the edge of her seat and looked outside with growing apprehension. Behind her the children peeked solemnly out the window. The young man shifted restlessly and with tense fingers tapped an irregular rhythm on his briefcase. At the front the driver crouched over the steering wheel and peered closely through the windshield. The storm continued. It was dark now, and they had changed directions and were driving into the storm. In order to see at all the lights of the bus had to be on low beam. The snow came at them like millions of fierce, ice-tipped needles. The bus rocked and shook with the fury of their attack. All about them was the roar and the vibration. The driver muttered under his breath, and tried to see out the coated windshield. The wiper groaned as it made a feeble effort to clear a space. The bus inched along, and after a tense interval crawled to a stop outside a small restaurant in a village with an THE STORM impossible Indian name. Miriam remembered it from other trips. It served as the bus stop for the area. To the girl it was almost primitive, no_ electricity, no plumbing, just gasoline lamps and two buildings at the back of the lot. The driver stood up on cramped legs, and pushing up his cap with a tired hand, said wearily, "This is as far as we can go. We'll wait out the storm here." He led the way and held the door while they climbed out. The fury of the storm lashed out at them. The wind nearly blew them off their feet, and the snow slapped their faces. The children shouted and clung to their mother. They went into the restaurant in a herd. Inside was light and warmth. They stamped and brushed off the snow, and crowded around the small circulating heater, rubbing chilled fingers, blowing noses, clearing throats. The young restaurant owner and his wife hurried to place steaming bowls of homemade soup on the counter. He told the driver, '"We were getting worried about you." At his urging they all sat down on the stools and took up their spoons. They were arrested by crisp tones from a small battery radio on the counter. 'Blizzard warning continues. Motorists are urged to stay off the highways. All householders are asked to leave lights on by a window to guide lost travelers." They spooned down the thick, hot soup, and listened in silence to the news report: "An unprecedented blizzard that surprised even the weatherman has lashed across the Canadian prairies with winds of sixty miles an 257 APRIL 1964 hour, gusts up to eighty-five, leaving hundreds of motorists stranded. Conditions are worsened by the twenty below zero temperatures. Heavy snowfall has disrupted communications and literally cut off many areas. However, the storm is expected to abate sometime during the night. At United Nations today." There was much head shaking among the adults as they solemnly broke crackers and finished their simple meal. No one spoke. Miriam looked at the small cafe as if she had never seen it before. Last summer she had viewed with derision its gray walls, brown counter top, and two mustard-colored booths. Now she almost felt affection for it. The kerosene lamp hanging from the ceiling spread out a warm, golden light that covered the obvious defects, muted the stark colors, and made it cheery and homelike. The adults did not hurry to get down from the stools. The children finished first and discovered a playful tabby kitten to tease. Their happy play was a pretty complement to the solemn tones of the grownups. After a time, the cafe owner came out of his living quarters behind the cafe with a high pile of blankets and quilts. His wife followed with three pillows. "I wish we had beds for you all, but we've only one back there, and Mary needs it." His young wife was obviously pregnant. 'Use these things to make yourselves as comfortable as you can. Pillows for the women and children."' With quick resourcefulness the mother made a bed on the table- 258 top in the far booth for the two little girls. She removed their shoes, tucked them in snugly. Then she kicked off her shoes, and wrapped herself in a blanket on the bench beside them. Miriam did the same. The driver and the young man settled down in the next booth; the young man kept the briefcase within reach, like a constant bedfellow. After the owner of the cafe had turned down the big hanging lamp, he and his wife retired to their quarters, leaving the door ajar. THE roar of the storm filled the night. To Miriam it seemed that the house itself was bending with the storm. The very nails seemed to stretch and yield. She heard their creaking protest. The others were asleep. She listened to the even breathing of the children, the quiet shifting of the mother, the young man sneezing in his blanket, the driver snoring in a low key. From her hard bed she looked at the isinglass window of the heater and the warm embers winked back at her. The storm was abating. Now, the noise was a mournful moaning and a sad sobbing. It was like a woman with wild hair wailing in a wilderness. Miriam felt a strange kinship with her. The tears she had kept frozen inside her began to course down her cheeks as the icy core inside melted away. Her thoughts no longer chased about in a wild frenzy, but bathed themselves in her tears. After a time she dried her face. The fire through the tiny window still kept a friendly vigil. Outside, the storm continued to retreat. The time of frenzy and woe was over. Now there was a low, murmuring sound, comforting like a mother's gentle lullaby. Hush! Hush! The girl slept. Miriam awoke next morning to happy children's voices. The adults, easing their cramped muscles, and yawning, took longer to get up. By the time Miriam was walking about, the young owner had already shaken down the fire and carried out the ashes. The young man, for once separated from his briefcase, thawed out a peephole in the frosted window of the front door, and invited the others to see for themselves. Miriam could hardly believe it was the same world. How peaceful! How still! A block away she saw the white village church with its steeple, as serene as the painted scene on a Christmas card. Everyone was jolly and friendly. The bespectacled young man parked his fat briefcase behind the counter and forgot about it. He borrowed the cafe owner's parka, boots, and heavy mitts, and shoveled wide paths to the outbuildings. It was cold. From the back window Miriam could observe him stop and slap his mittened hands _ vigorously against his thigh at intervals. He came in when his task was finished, with rosy cheeks and hoary eyebrows. He pushed his frosted spectacles up on his forehead to clear the lens, and to Miriam it seemed that his eyes gleamed with satisfaction. Meanwhile, the bus. Driver went out to the bus to see if it would go. From inside they heard the motor's strangled sputterings and chokings. He coaxed it along THE STORM until it roared in protest, then finally settled down to a resonant hum. He let it rin awhile before he came back indoors, blowing on his fingers and rubbing his hands. Together, Miriam and the mother folded blankets and quilts and put them away. Then they took their turns at the washstand. The hand pump was temperamental. It creakingly refused to yield any water to Miriam's gingerly, inexperienced handling. "Here, let me show you." The cafe owner pumped energetically, and water spurted out into the tin pail. "You weren't holding your face right," he teased her. The children thought it was fun to wash in the enameled basin. '"'Where are the taps?" the older asked. They only protested when their mother combed through their tangled hair. "Breakfast is ready," young wife called. They sat down at the counter to a country breakfast — _ porridge, pancakes, bacon and eggs, and mugs of hot chocolate. No one hurried. It would be hours, they knew, before the highway was cleared. Miriam, to her amazement, found herself involved in a political discussion with the young man and the bus driver. She had not known that she had strong inclinations one way or another until they challenged one of her random statements. She defended her opinions with fervor. She caught herself punctuating her remarks with jabs at the unoffending breakfast on her plate. The men laughed at her, and after a moment she laughed with them. The meal over, the children the 259 APRIL 1964 looked through the toy catalog while the women chattered over the dishes. Afterwards, the young wife took the mother and Miriam to her bedroom. From a bottom drawer she brought out the tiny garments she had made for her expected baby. She lifted them from their tissue-paper Wwrappings and showed them with something akin to reverence on her freckled face. She might have been an empress displaying her jewels. From the restaurant they could hear the men loudly talking about late model cars and hockey players. MirriaAM didn't realize it, but she came out of the bedroom with a forlorn face. The young man declared positively, "You need a walk in the snow. Bundle up and we'll take these kids for an outing. They're getting a bit bored with that catalog." The children excitedly ran for their snowsuits. Miriam put on her coat, but wisely laid aside her modish hat and felt boots with their ridiculous high heels. With a woolen scarf on her head, and borrowed overshoes, she felt more comfortable. The children ran outside like caged animals suddenly liberated. "Yes," the young man said, as they followed them, "an experience like this is good for us. We get down to the essentials and realize just how many of the things we work for and are concerned about are just the trappings of civilization. Doesn't this arouse your pioneer spirit though?" He trudged through the snow with purposeful strides, and Miriam followed in his tracks. At the edge of the field they caught 260 up to the little girls who were bent over something small and dark on the snow. It was a frozen field mouse. "Is it dead?" The older girl raised stricken eyes. "Yes," the young man answered. "It got lost in the storm, I guess." "Why didn't it stay in its own little home?" asked the little one. "Why? Probably because it was hungry." They found a sheltered hole by a tree, and covered the mouse over with snow. "There, it's safe now," they told the children. "Let's go tell Mama about it," one suggested, and the two of them turned back across the field. "Just a little mouse," mused the young man, 'and yet for me it poses all the major questions of life and death. I had a little mouse once, the smallest, ugliest little creature I had ever seen." As they slowly followed the little girls he told Miriam how he had visited his grandfather's farm when he was a lad of six. They had gone for a walk in the fields one day and had found a mouse nest that had been run over by a hay rake. The mother and all her babies except one were dead. His grandfather wished mercifully to kill the — little mouse, for it was less than an inch long, with no hair, only rudimentary ears and eyes — 4 pink squirming mite was all it was, with a hungry mouth and a pathetic, thread-like tail. He had begged for the mouse for a pet, and for a day he had kept it alive, feeding it warmed milk from an eye dropper, putting it to sleep in a soft little bed. How it had thrilled him to hold its tiny vibrant body in his fingers. But it had died and he had been heartbroken. Why he kept asking — why? His srandfather had tried to explain. "Why? Only God knows. Maybe it was because we didn't know how to care for it. Maybe we fed it too often. It's for the best. The love you gave the wee mite. It was not wasted, boy, it was not wasted." It was not wasted. The words warmed Miriam's heart. The peace that had come to her in the night was strengthened now by this wisdom. She saw it clearly now. Her love, even though it had ended in disappointment and heartbreak, and her unhappiness pline an d a preparation for better, more lasting relationships. THE STORM She felt as unmarked by bitterness as the snow before them. How foolish to think she could cut herself off from others — how foolish to want to hide. Beside her the young man was mutto himself, "~ for years." They walked slowly through the peaceful fields. About noon cleared the highway. It passed in a shower of snow and a wave from the driver's furry gauntlet. Driver warmed the motor, and the children skipped ahead. It was with reluctance that the older passengers said goodby to the cafe owner and his wife. At the last minute the young man remembered that he had forgotten his briefcase, and ran back for it. Miriam shared a seat with the young mother; the children swung their legs in the seats ahead. The youns man and his briefcase sat across the aisle. They smiled companionably at one another as the bus moved onto the highway. Enchanted Valley Sylvia Probst Young There is a valley where A quiet place, between Where winging birds may And wooded lanes will $s helter daffodils. There is a valley where small brooks will glide Across warm pasture lands, through banks of cress, And where a plowboy whistles to the sky, And fresh-turned soil awaits the rain's caress. There is a valley where the spring will come Across the waiting fields when April's new, A quiet valley bounded by God's hills, And where my heart shall keep a rendezvous. 261 262 Spring's Impulse Thelma J. Lund Where shall | find spring's impulse — In a hollow of buttercup gold along the curve of a stream bank where blades of green unfold? Here in a woodland meadow where violet petals stain the earth and breathe their fragrance after an April rain? There in a shallow of water, the hue of a bluebird's wing, where a cloud's reflection floats slowly, rippling? Or is this elusive impulse merely a whim of weather awakened by the soundless falling of a robin's feather? Don Knight More Blessed to Receive Nita Ellis Penarth, Glamorganshire, South Wales WELL, you're on your way home, Susan. Glad?" Douglas, big and tow-haired, smiled at his wife, sitting listlessly beside him in the car. He noted, with a pang, that her pretty blue suit fitted her more loosely than it had done six week ago. "Of course, darling!"' She said it quietly — too quietly. And because they had been close to one another for so many years, he understood at once. "'Now, you don't have to take it that hard. It won't hurt you to let others do the jobs you've always done. I've got it all arranged. Mrs. James is to come every day instead of once a week, and we'll have a nice, quiet holiday somewhere." "T don't want a nice quiet holiday, Doug. I just want to do my own housework, and not watch someone else doing it." His smile became wry, as though he realized the futility of trying to placate her. He said nothing, his anxious, gray eyes fixed on the dusty road ahead. I shall never get used to it, she thought, miserably, never. The memory of the hospital surgeon's advice, bluntly matter-offact, brought her near to tears. "You've led a very active life, Mrs. Stratton," he had _ said, "now you must reorganize things, so that you take it more easily. If you do that, you can expect to have as many more years as most of us. If you don't, this trouble will certainly flare up again, and then...." He had left the sentence unfinished, but his eloquent shrug had left a bleakness in Susan's tired face. Now, with the car purring its way through the busy town to the outskirts, and the new house 263 APRIL 1964 to which they had moved only a short time before Susan's illness, she gathered the last twenty-five years together in her thoughts, all of them busy, vital, active. She had taken so much more in her stride besides marriage and family. The many varied Church interests, her garden, the flower arrangement classes that had grown into a local society, the old people who had come to rely on her visits in times of bad weather — the list was endless. And now. She watched the fields, green with summer, and tall trees that curtseyed in the warm breeze against the blue softness of the sky, but her mind was_ shut against the beauty of the tender afternoon. Lulled by the heat, she dozed, drooping a little against her husband's shoulder, her dark hair spraying into curves across her damp _ brow. THE sound of a familiar bark startled her, and she opened her eyes to see Wilkie leaping down the path, in an ecstatic flurry of doggy welcome. She was home! The rose-red brick house was sun-mellowed, its windows sparkling. Cathy, looking fresh and pretty, in a white linen frock, was standing at the gate, with one-year-old Peter in her arms. "Lovely to have you_ back, Mum," she called, happily, as Douglas helped his wife carefully from the car. Susan's face lighted up as she encircled her daughter's slim waist, and stroked Wilkie's madly bobbing head. She savored the warm velvet of her grandson's tiny head against her cheek for a long moment before stepping 264 into the coolness of the hall. It smelled of polish and was brilliant with flowers. In the big living room the table was laid with her best china, bowls of fruit and jellies colorful against her gossamer lace cloth. In the place of honor stood a large iced cake, with "Welcome Home" written on it. "Eiveryone's been so_ good," Cathy told her. "Mrs. Elliott brought the cake this morning. From the Relief Society, with love, she said. And those flowers in the hall were sent, already fixed in the containers, from the Arrangement Society." That really was thoughtful. What a lot of work went into those kindnesses. The ready tears threatened again, as Susan leaned back in the comfortable chair, trying to overcome them. "Your father says that you have managed splendidly, Cathy," she said, at last. "Of course, Mum. I brought Peter with me, and Mrs. James kept an eye on him, while I did the shopping and cooking. I was always home in time to collect the twins from school and fix Tom's meal. He sends his love — coming over tomorrow." Susan felt as though the relationship between them had been reversed. She had always thought that Cathy needed help, with an old-fashioned house, a_ lively baby, and twins only just five. But the young woman who spoke so confidently, had a brisk capable air that disconcerted her. "T don't know what we should have done without you," Susan admitted. Cathy's answering smile was a serene acceptance of her own capabilities, instead of the glow of a girl paid an unexpected compliment. Through the window, Susan could see the flower beds, still bare, framing the new lawn. No one had touched the garden, she thought. I don't think I could have borne it, if they'd done that job for me. Conscious of the silence, she said, stubbornly, "I'd planned to do everything myself —the rose circle — rockery — all of it. There's no satisfaction like working on new ground with your own hands."' "Don't worry, dear, we'll see to it," her husband promised, cheerfully, but she shook her head. Douglas had done all the hardest preparation in their former garden, but he hadn't the feeling for growing things, as Susan had. It had never mattered that he had brains but no skill with his hands, as that plot of earth had been all hers, and she was proud of her green fingers. "It wouldn't be the same," she replied, gently. The tiny, awkward pause was broken by the sound of a gate slamming, feet skidding over the shining floor, and her son hurtling through the room. "Lo, Mum." He gave her a brief, rough hug, thrusting a posy of tight, pink rosebuds into her hands. "Gosh, I'm glad you're back! What we got to eat?" He registered approval of the loaded table with a grinning "Wow! Get a load of that cake!" THE tension was eased, and Susan ran fond blue eyes over the sturdy rosy-cheeked figure in the slightly faded jeans. He had MORE BLESSED TO RECEIVE not been allowed to visit her in the hospital because he was only ten and she had missed him. "Thanks, Kenny," she said, lifting the blooms, and inhaling their perfume. '"They're lovely." "Thought they'd go into old Noddy's cart." Kenny began to set chairs around the table. "Seeing you got no flowers growing yet." "Go and wash your hands, son." Douglas spoke sharply, and Kenny stared at him. "Take Noddy with you," suggested his mother. "Run a little water in, and you can arrange them for me." She turned to the recess where the little donkey and cart, modeled out of cream and brown pottery usually stood. "IT put it away, Mum," explained Cathy. "In the hall cupboard, Kenny — back of the top shelf. I wasn't having it broken while I was in charge,"' she went on, "I put your favorite ornament out of Pete's way." It was a happy meal. Kenny kept them laughing, and baby Peter, bolstered by cushions, lolled contentedly, at his grannie's side. Douglas touched his wife's fingers, as she passed plates, and the small, sweet contact eased the pain of knowing that he would never completely understand how she felt about the surgeon's verdict. L. Onc after Douglas was asleep that night, Susan lay, watching the sparkle of moonlight netted in the branches outlined against her window. Her body was taut and unrelaxed, while mentally, she took up, one by one, thoughts of the future. To be still was only to be half alive. Oh, yes, she 265 APRIL 1964 could cut down on a few things, but not all of them. If she was busy, she was happy — and, surely, if she was happy, she would be well, she argued to herself. She wasn't going to let them close in a protective circle around her, taking all her life away from her, doing the things she had always done. When Cathy left the following day, she took a bundle of laundry with her. "There's no need,"' Susan protested, indignantly. "It's just that there's extra this week," Cathy said, trying to soothe her. ''"Mrs. James has had other things to cope with, and my washing machine's as good as yours." Her smile was impish, affectionate, the kind she used to coax Peter out of a difficult mood, and the feeling of unreality invaded Susan again. "T'm not an invalid, Cath." "No, dear, you're convalescent. Remember how you looked after me, when Peter was born?' "That was different." "It wasn't different at all. It's nice to be doing something for you. Couldn't you try looking at things that way? You've helped so many people, and they're all longing to say 'thank you.' I met Judy Elliott on the way here this morning, and she says she'd just love to plant the flower beds for you." "Thank you," said Susan, firmly, "but I don't want the garden touched." "It will have to be done some time," Cathy pointed out with sweet reasonableness. "Bye, Mum. See you tomorrow." Her smile was_ unperturbed, 266 and Susan, watching her wheel Peter down the drive, dashed away the weak tears that seemed to be always near the surface. Cathy, she reflected, was grown up in a way she had never been before. She seemed a competent stranger, as trimly efficient as the starched hospital nurse had been. WHEN Douglas came home unexpectedly from the office some days later, he met Susan coming downstairs with her arms full of material. She looked at him defiantly. "I promised to make these up, before I went into hospital. There's nothing to a few hours sewing." "Those are for the club canteen, aren't they? Surely someone else could have taken over a job of that kind." "Judy Elliott offered to, but I wanted to do it, Douglas." "What else have you been doing?" he asked, gently, seeing her strained, pale face. "I sorted over the piece box to find scraps for the patchwork quilt we're making, and cut out some felt toys for the work meeting. Just quiet jobs. That's all." "Absolutely all?' he pursued, relentlessly. "Well, I just walked over to see the Wilsons. They have both — been ill for months, and they love visitors. It wasn't far. Don't look so accusing." "Tt's too much, Susan You're beginning again, taking up all the old jobs, and you can't do that." "You don't know how it feels to have people coming over to help, Mrs. James with the jam making, Cathy whisking away odd parcels of laundry, Judy offering to plant my garden. You can't understand how I hate taking." "You've always given." He drew the finished curtains from her. "Sometimes it's more blessed to receive, my dear." THERE was a babble of young voices outside, and Susan turned as the door burst open, to admit Jane and Tony, as alike as two peas in a pod. "Look, Grannie," they piped, "look what we've brought you — flowers." Brown earth and green stains smeared the chubby knees of the twins, and in their dusty warm hands they held tightly bundled dandelion heads. "To put in Noddy's cart," explained Jane, breathlessly. Waving her fistful of flashy gold, she ran to the window sill, where Noddy the donkey stood in harness between the chintz curtains. Excitedly she grabbed. There was a small gasp from Susan and a crash as the ornament hit a chair. The donkey lay on his side on the carpet his cart broken away from him. At the sight of grannie's face, Jane's round cheeks flushed and her brown eyes clouded. "I didn't mean to break Noddy, Grannie. I only wanted to put these lovely flowers in his cart. Please don't be cross. I couldn't help it." Tony put one grubby arm around his sister's shoulders. "They can mend it," he said with male nonchalance. "Mummy's got some glue that can stick anything." Susan's look rested on them, two hot, tired little scraps, with MORE BLESSED TO RECEIVE their carefully picked gifts still clutched against their panting chests. Douglas thought he had never seen anything more graceful than the swift droop of his wife's body to receive those gifts. She buried her face in the yellow weeds, crying out how beautiful they were. "T'll put them in the little green bowl — see? I'll put some water in it. And the donkey can be mended quite easily."" She went out, the children dancing around her, their shrill delight filling the house. Bur after her daughter had taken her little ones home, Susan inspected Noddy unhappily. "It won't show, Susan," her husband said. "It broke at the right part, luckily." "Remember buying this little fellow?" Her voice quivered. "The first present you ever gave me." She fingered the small animal lovingly. "'All through the years, I've grown dwarf plants in a rockery, to supply his cart. I've never thought of him as a china figure, but a symbol. A reminder of the happiness we've shared. Now, he is patched up — he'll never be the same." Her face crumpled. "Like me — just like me!" The tears she had held back for so long flowed unheeded. She buried her face in her hands and sobbed. Douglas picked her up bodily, holding her close, waiting until she was calm enough to listen to him. "You make it difficult for us, darling. We all love you and want to help. We want you to get better." "Better for what? If I can't do the things I've always done, 267 APRIL 1964 what's left? Oh, I'm sorry, dear. I'm behaving badly, but I can't seem to help it." "You must, Susan," he told her calmly. '""You've got to work this out for yourself. You know that."' But as he bent over her, feeling the softness of her cheek, he doubted whether she ever would. Tue tension of inner conflict hung over the entire house. Its central point was the nakedlooking garden that none of them dared touch. It would have been their contribution to Susan's defeat. Kenny was too young to understand that, but the bare stretch beyond the French doors fretted him. He said to his father one day, "'Aren't we ever going to put any flowers in the garden?" "T expect Mum will do something about it, when she feels better, Ken," Douglas replied, guardedly. Kenny frowned over his homework, thinking about something one of the boys at school had told him. A party held in the garden instead of the house, where everyone brought a plant to put in the ground. Thoughts soon shaped into an idea that was both wonderful and simple. If his mother didn't feel like making the garden pretty, they could all get together and do it for her. It was just a question of getting enough people, and he knew most of those she worked with. The important thing was to keep it a secret from her. His mother was sewing in the living room. "What kind of flowers do you like best, Mum?" he inquired. 268 "T like them all,"' she told him. "Why?" "Oh, I just wondered. What sort would you like in your garden?" "Ken!" his father said, hurriedly, "isn't it almost your bedtime?" After Kenny had _= gone, thoughtfully, upstairs, Susan said, "Poor old Ken. He can't be expected to know how I feel." "Are you going to leave it as it is?" Douglas asked. "T suppose I shall have to have something done," she conceded, reluctantly. "But I don't mind what. It isn't important." "It was, once, Susan." "Yes, but it was my garden, then. It was to have been my own achievement, and I suppose I just don't want to give it up." IF she had been less preoccupied, she would have noticed the banded-together look that enclosed her family. "Somebody's got to do something to wake Mum up, and make her realize how selfish she's being," Cathy had said to her father. "Selfish, Cath? Is that fair?" "Yes. How would she have felt if all the people she has helped had refused to accept anything from her?" The relationship between Cathy and her mother had changed, Douglas thought. Cathy was no longer the young housewife, needing support and advice. He doubted, suddenly, whether that Cathy had existed, except in Susan's imagination. But it must be hard to realize that one was no longer indispensable, he thought, with a flash of compassion. Some days later, Douglas took Susan out for the afternoon and when they returned, it was to find people, busy with trowels and boxes of plants, crowding the garden. "What's this?' Susan demanded, her face tight with dismay. Douglas turned her round to face him. "This was Ken's idea. We thought it a good one. These are the folks you've helped for years. This is their way of thanking you — the labor of their hands. Are you going to tell them to leave, because it's your place, or accept the gifts we've brought, and will go on bringing as long as you'll let us?" MORE BLESSED TO RECEIVE Susan's expression altered. Her eyes shone as she watched her friends. "I've been stupid to want to be independent. See how happy they look!" Walking towards them, her voice lifted, joyously, "Douglas has just told me what you have planned. It's a wonderful surprise, and the best present I've had in my whole life." Kenny, disheveled and earnest, appeared. "Is it a good garden party, Mum?" Susan's laugh held the old merry ring. "It's the best idea you ever had, Ken," she assured him, and, sensing that his Mum was herself again, he beamed. '"'Where d'you want these rose trees put?" he asked, importantly. Hazel Loomis He came with spring full in his face. Gone autumn's doubt, gone winter's seal. Spring's garlands wove a path of lace, A petaled spring was warm to feel. The earth was bright and garden-green Around about him where he knelt Within a maple-wooded scene. Oh, prayer, pierce sky! Oh, heaven, melt. And forge from rock a holy stream Of promise for a crying void Or wisdom's lack! Who was he to doubt the word? A blackness — battle-pitched until Spring burst, fire-opal bright, With words so clean They covered all the earth. Oh, many springs are woven there — A gentle path — a quiet wood — Where he came alone for prayer.... Tread lightly, lightly where he stood. 269 Caroline Eyring Miner To Be Happy E-veryTHING has its beauty, but not everyone sees it," said Confucius. This idea is akin to the one of "taking your good time with you," in which case you are sure to have it. It is one of the great sins to have had the potential for happiness, which we all have, but to have failed in its realization. The older I grow, and the more people I meet who carry grudges against this person and that, against this circumstance and that, with innumerable alibis for not being happier, the more wonderful I think my mother was. Mother was an optimist, Some criticized her for her undiscriminating tastes, as they labeled them. She thought there was no lovelier house than hers that just grew like Topsy a room at a time. She loved the little sleepy farming community in which she lived. She loved all the people in that town, just for their particular peculiarities and qualities. She loved each of her children, together with all their faults, of which she seemed strangely unaware. She enjoyed every little thing: golden dandelions, no matter in what annoying place they might be growing; spicy yellow roses that grew wild all over the place and were a detestable nuisance to everyone else. She had a moving picture of color TV, long before the invention, in the magnificent Arizona sunsets, which she so extravagantly praised. She was one person on whom "nothing was lost" that could bring her happiness. The Listener's Part Ass a speaker in your service, I have a duty to deliver to you the speech I have prepared for you. You have a duty, too," the speaker continued. "Your responsibility is to listen and absorb and apply. Now, if you get through listening before I get through speaking, just raise your hands and I'll stop." It worked like magic. With such a challenge, people listened and didn't get through before the speaker did. The very fact that they listened motivated them to gain from the talk. The listener's part is less dramatic than that of the speaker, but it is every bit as significant. When we are speaking we are only giving forth what we already know, but when we listen we may learn something new. Berinc educated means to prefer the best not only to the worst but to the second best," said the philosopher, William Lyon Phelps. Often we are put on the spot to justify an education for a person if he does not make more money than an uneducated person, and surprisingly enough, many do not. The above quotation is one good reason for having an education — to raise one's tastes; to lift standards; to help one be satisfied with only the best — the best literature, the best homemaking, the best performance in any art. Especially is it necessary for one to set a high standard in Church service. Only excellence is worthy of the Lord. 270 Lt. Colonel Harriet W. Worley, of the United States Army Nurse Corps, received the Legion of Merit award, the Nation's second highest peacetime award, at Fort Douglas, Utah, in January. Authorized by the President of the United States, the citation reads: ''With rare foresight, mature judgment, keen and analytical ability and resourcefulness, she developed the first Army Nurse Corps Career Management program, and was the innovator of formal nursing research and development in the Army." Mothers in Utah have the lowest infant mortality rate (20.3 per 1,000 live births) in the United States, according to Dr. Joseph P. Kesler, Director, Department of Children's Services, Utah State Department of Health. Among the factors involved in this record, Dr. Kesler lists the following: a higher educational level of the mothers, resulting in better infant care; a relatively low rate of cigarette smoking by mothers; relatively good hygienic and sanitary standards in the home; and the birth of more than ninety-nine per cent of all Utah babies in hospitals. Mary G. Roebling, who is a bank president, predicts, ''Within the next decade we will see a tremendous increase in the number of women occupying top managerial positions." Queen Frederika of Greece and her daughter, Princess Irene, twenty-two, arrived in New York January 22, for a brief visit in the United States. The Queen, a highly intelligent and well educated woman, received. An honorary doctor of laws degree from Columbia University, and observed American television programs. Margaret Chase Smith, senior Senator from Maine, on January 27, entered the race for the Republican nomination for President of the United States. First woman to enter actively such a campaign in a major party, her name will be presented in primaries. In' New Hampshire and Illinois and probably in the District of Columbia and Oregon. Mrs. Smith served in the House of Representatives from 1940-1948 and in the Senate since 1948. She is noted for faithful attendance at Senate sessions and committee meetings, being a member of two powerful committees, the Aeronauticat and Space Sciences Committee and the Armed Services and Appropriations Committee. There are 57,926,000 women of voting age in the United States. That is approximately 3,828,000 more than the men of voting age in the country. Women could actually control political situations, but they rarely vote as a block. Polls show that more men than women are favorable to the idea of having a woman president. 271 EDITORIAL Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Relief Society Time at the New York World's Fair June 24-25, 1964 As the Church has moved out of the wilderness since it was organized in 1830 so, under the guidance of the Priesthood, Relief Society has moved with it. As the gospel is brought to different nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, the divine organization for women — the Relief Society — is also constituted to do the work assigned by the Church to Church women. With the great impetus today from the inspired plans of acceleration in Church government, Relief Society, as the companion organization to the Priesthood, moves forward in like tempo with expanded programs. Its Singing Mothers have won signal recognition in many parts of the Church, none greater than the 1961 International Chorus of Singing Mothers which combined singers from Utah with singers from the British Isles under the leadership of Sister Florence J. Madsen. Now, at the New York World's Fair, Singing Mothers Concerts are to be given under the direction of the General Board on the afternoons of June 24 and 25, 1964. The Singing Mothers will all be from — the New York, New Jersey, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, and Potomac Stakes. Mrs. Ellen Neilson Barnes, chorister of the Washington Stake Relief Society, will conduct the two concerts. Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, chairman of the General Board's music committee, will be associated with Mrs. Barnes in presenting numbers at the concerts. Mrs. Barnes and Mrs. Madsen are both graduates of the New England Conservatory of Music and both are experienced in conducting Singing 272 This activity Sets a new Pattern jp Wherein the Major reSponsibilit i Unit of the Church. Tw Genera} Board Placed Pon ag Sraphic Concerts ll take Place on €ach of € after NOons of June 24 and 25 at the Hld's Fair Pavilion. This Ould seem a Propitious time for lief S Clety w MEN eve ywhere ho plan to attend th Fair With their famili tO make their VISIt to th Fair includ these dates. Relief Society women wil| Serve hostesses at the Better Living Center at the Wo, Hospitality Center Nder t Irection Of Anna Laura Stoh] 2NNon for + € week of Jun Ty UN€ 24 has been designateg S Relief Ociety Da at the B tte Living Center, at which ime the lief Societ ene! Presidency Will r CVE guests Of nati and intern tional re OWN. This Center Will quarters for ] Cc INgZ o his 5,000 s " assigned to the Center. Elle Ss Women iS ] Board Of the 273 THE previews for the 1964-65 lessons will appear in the June 1964 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and the lessons for October will be in the July 1964 issue. In order to obtain the June issue of the Magazine it will be necessary for renewals and new subscriptions to reach the General Offices by the first of May 1964. It is suggested that Magazine representatives check their lists immediately so that all Relief Society members will receive all of the issues containing the lessons. It is suggested that ward presidents make this announcement in the April meetings. The Warblers Dorothy J. Roberts They brought a song, a wisp of thread, They scanned the pine outside my sill For nesting a perennial mate, And something moved my wintering will. Song grew until. A symphony Rose from the neighborhood of trees, And something, listening, aroused My waning wonder, hearing these Who weave their hopes above the street, Paired for flight into songful teams, Who build the bits | throw away Into a dwelling for their dreams. Cancer's Two Deadly Gaos yeRWNHE eG S&S eS bee ea +e tak hs 2 American Cancer Society In cancer, in 1964, there are two deep, tragic gaps: the research gap and the education gap. Cancer research has accomplished fifty per cent of its task. Today, it is possible cure to one half of all cancers. The remaining fifty per cent waits on new discoveries — bridging the research gap. The other gap — the education gap — could be bridged immediately. Lack of education cancels some of the benefits of research — by keeping about one out of every six cancer patients from the prompt diagnosis and the proper treatment that could save his life. In one year — this year —in this country, the education gap will cost about 90,000 lives — people who could be saved from cancer if they were properly educated and motivated to help themselves.. Education could save: people who have not learned the seven danger signals that may mean cancer — or who fail to act on these signals; people who do not know that cancer can be cured if found early, hence avoid periodic health examinations; people who do not know what modern surgery, radiation, and drugs can do against cancer, hence avoid proper treatment or delay it too long for safety. The seven danger signals are: unusual bleeding or discharge; a lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere; a sore that does not heal; change in bowel or bladder habits; hoarseness or cough; indigestion or difficulty in swallowing; change in wart or mole. To cure more, give more to the American Cancer Society! Earth Renewed
 Grace Barker Wilson | had forgotten how the earth is fair, The miracles of birds and butterflies, Till | saw wonder shining in her eyes, And shafts of sunlight making gold her hair. We gathered nuts and left them for the squirrels, We watched the wild canaries flash and dart From tree to tree. Again | felt a part Of mystery encompassing small girls. A bright leaf fallen from a maple tree, A fluffy cloud ship floating overhead, Were newly beautiful when sunset's red Reflected all her wonderment to me. 275 Cara floated gently, unhurried, through the anesthetic until the gleam of the delivery room ceiling brought her back to reality. "That didn't take long," she thought with drowsy relief. "You have a little girl." The doctor's pleasant voice caught her up with a jerk. "Is she all right?" She gave weak voice to the question first on a mother's tongue. "Yes," the doctor's voice reassured her. She gave in to the lassitude that plagued her, floating gently to the haven of no pain. "But," he continued, pulling her rudely back, "she has something wrong with her stomach. A hernia, or something of that order." She forced herself to show interest. "Qh?" Hernia operations were quite common. She began to drift away again, but the doctor wouldn't let her. "Let's go to the nursery so you can see her." Clara felt the table move under her and watched 276 through pleasantly clouded vision as the ceiling changed from white to cool green. The table stopped and a gentle hand on her cheek turned her face toward the nursery window. She forced herself to concentrate. The nurse, holding the baby, watched the mother's expression as she looked into the round face, eyes pinched tight, the little nose pressed flat into a red, softfleshed face, dark hair curled tightly to her head. "She weighs nine pounds and thirteen ounces," the doctor said, and the mother smiled weakly, breathed. "She's beautiful!' The nurse with a deft hand, turned back the blanket to reveal the wrinkled, red, freshly washed little body. There!!! She saw but couldn't comprehend. She closed her eyes to shut out the sight and longed with all her heart to return to the safety of oblivion. Anywhere just to get away from now. She felt a tear slide down her cheek and raised a hand to conceal her face. "What happened?" she whispered, sick with grief. She felt the gentle pressure of a hand on her shoulder, and looking up met the doctor's unflinching gaze. THERE was such concern there that she felt sorry for him and guilty also that she was causing him such anxiety. "We don't know how or why these things happen," he said gently, "perhaps she'll be all right. We'll just have to wait and see."" But she had again covered her face, seeking privacy. "You had better put her to bed," he directed softly. The table moved and she let herself sink back into blessed unawareness. She was dimly aware of gentle hands moving her, pillows flattened, and the warmth of heated blankets tucked around her. Someone was crying, somewhere. Such heartbroken sobs. She wished they would stop. She didn't like to hear anyone cry. Something terrible must have happened, she thought. She opened her eyelids with great effort and discovered with surprise that it was she crying. She stopped abruptly, ashamed of her lack of control. Why was she crying? For herself? The baby? Disappointment? The uncertainty of the situation? She didn't know. She turned toward the sanctuary of the wall and invited the soothing balm of semi-consciousness again, but it was gone. It wouldn't return. So, there was to be no going back. What was ahead? It had finally happened to her. She, too, had given birth to an imperfect child. That. PLEASE, NOT THIS ONE much was a fact, but would it live? If it did, then what? Had they called her husband? Had they told him? What would he think? There were too many questions. She closed her eyes and hid her face in the pillow. Immediately she saw the baby. She opened her eyes frantically. She would not feel the same way about this baby as she had the others. She would not love it or get attached to it, that was her only hope. Then, if the baby should die, the loss wouldn't be so painful. She nodded her head firmly. Yes! That was the only way. Sue raised herself heavily and reached for the glass and tube beside the bed. The water tasted so good. Would she ever get enough? She fell back and again turned her face to the wall. Weariness, physical and emotional, overcame her and she drifted gently away. A hand on her shoulder, a gentle kiss on her cheek, pulled her out of the dark comfortable nothing. She came reluctantly. Looking up into her husband's brown eyes searchingly, she knew immediately that they hadn't told him. "Another girl, huh?" Hal grinned. "When are you going to add a little variety to this family of ours?" She tried to smile but her face crumpled as she began to weep. Her arms reaching desperately pulled him close. She couldn't bear to have even him see the hurt in her face. He drew back in alarm. "Hey, honey, what's the matter?" He slipped an arm under 277 APRIL 1964 bad her shoulders and pulled her close. "There's something wrong with our baby," Clara sobbed brokenly, then quickly closed her eyes to shut out the sight of his face gone suddenly white; the sick look of fear that tightened the corners of his mouth. He held her close, wordlessly, for a moment. 'Well, honey," Hal pushed the damp curls back from her face with gentle fingers, '"we wondered if sooner or later something would be wrong with one of them, didn't we?" She nodded jerkily, swallowing hard. They had discussed it. "But not this one," she pleaded desperately, "please, not this one." They clung together silently until the misery that had filled the room gently subsided. "Have you seen the _ pediatrician yet?" 'No.' "Let's wait and see what he says."' He bent to kiss her cheek. "Now, don't feel so badly... It's nothing we could have helped." He answered her unspoken question. "Things will work out, you'll see." He laid her against the pillows and straightened up, holding her hand so tightly the wide gold wedding band cut into her fingers. "I'll be right back. I'm going down to see her." He was back in five minutes. SHeE's cute, isn't she?' Clara smiled through her tears. At least some things weren't so different. "She'll be all right,'' Hal predicted and she tried to absorb some of his confidence. ''She's big and strong, and even if it 278 means an operation she'll be able to stand it."' She cringed, miserable at the thought of an operation on such a small body. After a prolonged silence her husband began to speak hesitantly. Struggling to eradicate the thought of an operation, she followed his words carefully, praying for distraction. "TI met Grant Fuller down the hall," he spoke slowly, thoughtfully. "Irene's here. They had their baby today, too." He hesitated, undecided, then continued, "It died a half hour ago." She lay there stunned. Becoming aware that her teeth were so tightly clenched they ached, she relaxed with effort. "She was born under the covenant, so they, at least, know they'll have her in the hereafter," he concluded. Suddenly her arms felt so empty they ached. The hereafter's too far away, she thought in a panic. My baby's just down the hall and I want her now. But how long would she be there? At least Grant and Irene knew. Ahead of her was what? A crippled child? Would she require so much attention that the rest of the family would suffer neglect? She suddenly realized what a pathetically weak person she was. What was ahead for them? She couldn't face any of it. "At least we can hope," Hal answered her unspoken question. But what was hope? It could be a deceiving liar, luring her toward happiness, then abruptly plunge her to the very depths of despair. She shook her head in silent rebellion. NO!! She'd not be lured into that trap. "You know these things happen to teach us something," he insisted, watching her face intently. "Yes," -she agreed, "I know that," her forehead wrinkled, "but what? What?" He shrugged, absently rubbing the back of her hand with his thumb. Fiat looked at the telephone beside her bed. 'You should call your mother." "T know I should," she replied wearily, "but she'll ask 'Is everything all right?' and then what do I say? We don't even know if the baby will live or not. Besides mother has enough to worry about with Janet." He nodded reluctantly. Janet, her little niece, was suffering from an incurable disease. The little girl's grandmother, with gentle hands, performed for Janet many tasks and helped Janet's mother so the little girl had not gone into a hospital. Clara, on the other hand, had always regarded Janet as 'someone who deserved to be loved but harbored a deep feeling of guilt because in spite of this conviction, the wandering, innocent, baby eyes, aimlessly seeking hands, and the unintelligible utterings of a child of ten years had frightened her. She had been relieved to move to another city. Now what? Would her baby be another Janet to the family? More of the same arguments.. The whole confusing conflict all over again? "No," Clara said decisively, "T can't call her yet... Maybe tomorrow," she half promised before he left. That night, the pediatrician, whom she had known for twelve PLEASE, NOT THIS ONE years, was a stranger at the foot of her bed. The concern in his face told her befere he did the results of his examination in the nursery. Cara again felt guilty that she had brought a less than perfect babe into the world and was causing still another person such obvious concern. She smiled encouragement. "I've seen the baby," his eyes were steady. She waited. "The big question is whether her body is capable of functioning and only time will answer that." The smile left her face. She had counted on him to reassure her. "Are you going to nurse her?" His question plopped in the awkward silence. She avoided his eyes. "TI don't know," she murmured miserably. "Why don't I know?" she asked herself desperately. She had nursed the others. There had been no question then. "But this one is different,' she excused herself. "If I nurse her and she dies, then what?' The physical pain would be just another reminder of her loss. I couldn't stand it, she thought wildly. What if they decided the baby could not leave the hospital when she did, then what? So many problems, was there no end? She pressed her hands to her throbbing temples. Was there no. Way out of this trap? "I don't know!" she repeated defiantly into the strained silence. "You have plenty of time to decide," the pediatrician assured her mildly. "T've arranged with the nursery to show you your baby when- 279 APRIL 1964 ever you want to see her," he said kindly. She nodded and murmured a thank you, but she knew in her heart that she wouldn't go. Perhaps, giverr time, she would be able to forget what she looked like. No... She would not go see her. The less she had to do with the baby the better for her. She wouldn't get attached to her. Night passed in drugged, fitful slumber, awakening to awareness and willing herself back into oblivion... Blessed oblivion peaceful unthinking uncomplicated oblivion. But with the coming of day her period of respite ended. "Do you want the news of your baby's birth published in the newspapers?" an impersonal nurse inquired, her pencil poised. Clara looked up in surprise. They had never asked her that before. Were they so sure it wouldn't live? What would she tell the children?... They had waited so long with the little bed so carefully made up. How did you tell them there was no baby to put init? "You don't have to if you don't want to," the nurse avoided her eyes as she prodded her toward a decision. She thinks 'm ashamed of my baby, the mother suddenly realized with a deep sense of shame. But was being a coward a better virtue? How selfish she had been. She should have been thinking of her husband and children and trying to make the situation more bearable for them, but she had made herself the biggest problem. 280 o Her first concern should have been for the tiny baby down in the nursery whom she had been so deliberately ignoring. She felt a sudden sense of release. It had never occurred to her not to acknowledge the birth of the baby. "Of course I want it published,"' she replied firmly, and the poised pencil made its mark and left. She thought of the tiny girl down the hall. If she, her own mother, wouldn't claim and love her, who would? She had the right, perfect or not, to be loved and cared for by her mother whether she lived one day, one week, or whatever time she had. Clara looked up as the doctor entered the room followed by a nurse carrying her baby. She had seen the baby only the once since it was born and now, as she looked into her small face and laid a gentle finger against the softest cheek she had ever touched, her heart ached with love and compassion. "May I hold her?" The nurse, after a nod from the doctor, handed her the baby. Her cheeks flushed with shame as she realized that they, too, had misunderstood her cowardice. She looked into the small closed-up face, and wondered how long today... Tomorrow one week... It didn't matter... This was her baby. If she just lives two weeks, then I'll be sure, she made herself the vain promise. '"'She seems to be in good order internally," the doctor volunteered encouragingly. The mother's eyes left the baby face and looked up into his searchingly. Here was more than she had dared hope for. She clutched the pink bundle against her, pressing her cheek to the face of the sleeping infant. Tears slid down her cheeks, and in spite of herself, she sobbed. She felt the baby taken from her and firm hands put her to bed. A capsule was pressed into her hand. She cried steadily until the drugged pillow that softens all emotions put her to sleep. That evening Clara looked down at the dark head pillowed on her arm. The satin cheeks were dimpling rhythmically as the baby nursed. Her small fingers closed around Clara's thumb. With a gentle hand she stirred the tight, dark curls. Placing her daughter against her shoulder, she patted the tiny _ back. Through the blanket she could feel the row of safety pins holding a binder securely around the small body. She smiled as she felt the soft brush of warm breath... That precious breath PLEASE, NOT THIS ONE of life... And her heart filled with gratitude for having her to hold one more day. Suddenly she saw beyond the physical imperfection of her baby and knew what it was that must be learned. She held the baby from her and looked at her intently. Her thoughts turned to her other children. She didn't love any one of them, more or less, according to his physical condition. The spirit within shaped them and made them who and what they were. How could she have been so blind? First about little Janet and then her own baby. Now she could understand her mother's stubborn devotion to Janet's care. She, with greater wisdom, had seen beyond that tortured little body and loved the precious, innocent soul that was held captive within. Gathering her daughter into her arms, carefully so as not to awaken her, Clara held her close to her heart and reached for the telephone. Desert in Springtime Ethel Jacobson Here are dusty creek beds, Stones, and burning sand, But spring comes tripping bravely To this forbidding land. Seeds lie quiet, waiting The fleeting kiss of rain, Then magically blossom To carpet dune and plain. Poppy, mariposa, Verbena, lupine, broom — No one knows spring truly Till he sees the desert bioom! 281 Nis Forgiving Wan Viola Ashton Candland. ".. And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him... (Luke 23:33). How callously they nailed him to the cross, Quite unaware this dreadful, dreadful deed Was prophecy fulfilled, believing loss Of life would mean the end of him. No seed Of blame could root in Christ, where true love grew To bear its fruits upon the cross and plead, 'Forgive them for they know not what they do,"' And stand as an example and a creed. The nails — the cross — the thorny crown — the scorn Intended in the sign for all to read — Unto this very hour he was born, Redeemer of the world, a King indeed; And agony and blood could not erase The mark of godhood printed on his face. * * * A callous world still nails him to the cross With spikes of unbelief and hate and greed; And frivolous, indifferent hands still toss Away his gift of love as if the need For it did not exist. The precious words That tell how Jesus came to earth to bleed And die that man might live, are wasted chords In cynics' ears and hearts that will not heed. Ah, world, which largely, yet, profanes his name, How long before repentant hearts will plead For that same love which once was put to shame, And pray that he, again, will intercede, And know that he looks down at us today In that same sorrowing, forgiving way? Be Yourself Betty G. Spencer THERE," sighed Laura with relief, as she deftly polished the last bit of nickel on the big "Home Comfort" range. Her stepmother's kitchen was well kept and tidy. Aunt Em took pride in a neat house, and she and Laura had taken particular pains to see that everything was just right today. Reluctant to finish the task, Laura brushed the cloth across the warming oven until she could see her face in the polished metal. Plain, she thought, just plain. Her thin face looked a bit pale below the heavy coronet formed by her light brown braids. "If time would just stand still for a few hours," she said to herself. But she knew it wouldn't. She would have to face it, there was just no other way. This was the morning Brother William Barker was coming to watch her set a batch of bread. She had heard of young women having to do strange things to get a husband, but Brother William's request did beat all. Papa had scolded her before he left for the fields this morning. "Brother William has my permission to call," Papa reminded her, "and besides, Laura," he had chided, "it's about time you began thinking of marrying. You'll never find a better catch, and Brother William is a fine, upstanding young man." That settled things as far as Papa was concerned, and Laura didn't know but what he was right. The Thomas clock chimed the half-hour. Aunt Em looked up anxiously from the worktable as she placed prints of newly churned butter in an earthen crock. "Laura, dear," "you'd best hurry." Nervously, Laura put away her cleaning cloth as the rusty hinge she urged, 283 APRIL 1964 on the front gate squeaked its warning. "Aunt Em," she said in a small tight voice, ''he's here!" "Now, Laura," Aunt Em soothed, placing her hand on Laura's arm, '"'just do your best and everything will go fine. Just be yourself, child." "Tl try, Aunt Em, [ll try," Laura replied. "Ill take the crock to the spring house and be right in." She could hear Aunt Em greet their guest as she closed the kitchen door softly and hurried down the path. She pulled the wooden peg and swung the heavy door wide, letting the bright morning sun make checkered patterns on the hard-packed dirt floor. Quickly she placed the butter crock in the screened food safe, and took one last admiring look at the cut glass plate on the top shelf. Neat rows of daintily decorated cup cakes were ready to be served at refreshment time. Aunt Em had discouraged Laura about making the fancy pastries, but Laura insisted she wanted to go to the trouble, and had been finishing the last of the decorating when Aunt Em arose this morning. "Tl show William that I can serve the fanciest cakes in Spring City," she reassured herself. "T'll bet they are as delicate and tasty as any he ever had back in St. Louis, too." There was time for only a quick pat at the wisps of hair that escaped the bone hairpins, as she tidied herself at the marble washstand. Secretly, Laura had been longing to cut her hair, just 284 a bit, and use rag curlers to do her hair in the fashionable ringlet style, but Papa would never permit it. Laura doffed the _ wrinkled coverall and tied her best embroidered half apron about her slender waist. She had best not dawdle. She could hear Aunt Em and William talking in the sitting room. Laura entered the room quietly. Brother Barker crossed the sitting room in four long strides and clasped her hand in a crushing handshake. "Brother Barker," she smiled, "how nice to see you." "Good morning, Sister Laura," he replied, his blue eyes sparkling merrily. "I've just been telling Sister Grant how grateful I am that you would let me come this morning." This morning, Laura thought, this very morning, and all the witty, clever sentences she had practiced last night, left her completely. The force of Brother Barker's greeting brought fresh doubt about the next few hours. It was hard, knowing that William had been courting several other young ladies. Now it was Laura's turn, and it wouldn't have been so bad, except that she was in love with William. From the first time C she had noticed him sitting so attentively at sacrament meeting that Thursday evening, six months ago, she had hoped that he would find it possible to return the affection she felt for him. William had _ been walking Laura home from church for several months, now, but he occasionally walked other young ladies home, too, and Laura could never tell how William really felt about her. Yesterday, however, he had asked Papa for permission to visit today, and to take Laura to the harvest ball, which was to be held tonight in the new social hall. EvrerYONE knew that William was looking for a wife to share the new frame home which had just been built near his small mercantile store. William's only mention of marriage, though, had been to tell Laura that his mother, back in St. Louis, had written to tell him the qualities he should seek when choosing his companion. Aunt Em chatted easily about the weather, and William was soon telling them about his latest letter from his mother. "A very unusual woman, my mother," William declared. Aunt Em turned the conversation to the coming Sunday School picnic, as Laura brought her supplies from the small, dark pantry. Laura felt more at ease in the kitchen, and set to work gratefully. Flour, sugar, salt, lard, and the precious bottle of potato "start'' soon filled the checkered oil cloth on the round table. Last evening, Sister Barratt had put a generous amount in the small bucket Laura carried so she had far more "start"? Than she usually received in trade for her two cups of flour. The "start" was foamy and light as she poured it into the center of the flour, which had been sifted in the large, tin dishpan, bright with lead patches BE YOURSELF that bore silent testimony of its constant use. Almost automatically, Laura added the other ingredients and began to knead the dough. Kneading was a pleasant task which Laura enjoyed. There were times when she had kneaded with vigor, when thinking out a problem. She realized with a start that she was kneading extra vigorously now, but wondering just why William had wanted to see her set the bread was most upsetting. Laura loved to cook, and it must be that William loved to eat, going out of his way, as he was doing, to see what kind of bread she made. But there must be more to it than that. He could have just asked to taste a slice or two, goodness knows she made enough, keeping the big family supplied. Aunt Em and Brother William sat in rockers by the window, but Laura felt that they were both right at her elbow. Wilham watched carefully, and the polite conversation came to an _ uncomfortable standstill as Laura kneaded. THE silence in the kitchen was broken as the front gate swung violently. The rusty hinge squeaked briskly in the quiet room, as the gate was shut with a snap. "Now who could that be, of a weekday morning?" mused Aunt Em. Almost before they could wonder, they were greeted by the scent of rose sachet. Only one girl in the village of Spring City had gathered enough rose petals 285 APRIL 1964 to use the sachet so lavishly. It couldn't be, but it was. "Why, Cousin Julie, what a surprise," said Aunt Em, as Julie swept into the room. "I didn't know you had returned from Salt Lake City." "Just last night,"' Julie replied as she turned to Laura, who smiled a greeting. "I had so much to tell Laura about the city, that I thought I'd run over and spend the morning." She glanced at Brother Barker, who had stood to greet her, and then at Laura, "I hope I haven't come at an inconvenient time." "Of course not, Julie, we're always glad to have you," said Laura. Julie was soon seated in Brother William's rocker, as he pulled a straight-back chair from the table for himself. Laura's slender fingers trembled as she went on with her work. The elation of the task was gone. Julie talked animatedly about her trip to the city, with Aunt Em and William captivated by her lively chatter. Her starched petticoats rustled softly as she bent to take baby Katie from Aunt Em. Katie's fat little fingers mussed the elaborate switch Julie had carefully pinned across _ her smooth crown, releasing an auburn cascade of ringlets. Laura knew it had taken at least an hour to curl the ringlets around some patient sister's finger. Laura could contribute little to the conversation, as William and Julie compared travel experiences and acquaintances in Salt Lake City and in St. Louis, 286 where Julie had visited last summer. ArT last, the bread was kneaded down for the last time, and Laura placed the large black pans side by side on the table and molded the loaves expertly. Soon eight loaves were rising under clean dish towels, and Aunt Em nodded that Laura should begin serving refreshments, while she seated the guests on the shady side porch. Laura hurried down the springhouse steps, glad to get out of the kitchen. The rose sachet was almost overpowering; Julie, herself, was almost overpowering. Julie, she thought, so elegant and lovely. How could any man resist her? Laura felt dowdy in comparison. Her checked gingham was starched and clean, and had been carefully fitted by the local seamstress, Mrs. Clark, but it looked shabby next to Julie's second-best merino. "Well, that's that," Laura. Julie could charm the birds right out of the trees, and Laura was sure she had _ charmed William right out of any ideas he might have had about wanting her as his wife. She would just serve the fresh | buttermilk and the pastries, and William could get out of her life forever. She was glad the morning was over. She felt such a failure. She bit her lip to keep back the impending tears, and tried to console herself with the thought that William wasn't the only man in Sanpete County. Tabitha, Julie's big tortoisesighed colored cat, had followed her across the yard and leaped down the steps ahead of her. "Scat, Tabitha," Laura exclaimed. But Tabitha was in the room as soon as the door was opened, staring at Laura from her perch atop the food safe. Just as Laura lifted the cut glass plate, Tabitha jumped down, bumping Laura's arm and sending pastries. And plate to the hard-packed dirt floor. Laura's heart sank with the cakes. "Oh, Tabitha," she scolded, "what will I ever do now?" William and Julie and Aunt Km were waiting on the side porch, and she knew that the conversation had turned from the doings in Spring City, to the social season in Salt Lake City, where Julie was to spend the winter with her grandparents. She couldn't serve plain buttermilk, not with William and Julie used to such elegant refreshments. Laura put her hand against the safe and pondered. Everything took so much time — all but one thing. There was nothing else to serve. Resolutely, Laura climbed the steps and crossed the dooryard. Entering the kitchen, she shook the grate briskly and put two pieces of wood in the big range. The fire blazed up quickly. She pushed the black skillet over the front lid and spooned lard into it swiftly. "Plain food," she muttered to herself. "Just like me. I'll be myself," she cried, "plain and practical." Laura cut strips of dough from a loaf rising in one of the long pans, frying them quickly in the BE YOURSELF skillet. As she removed _ the scones from the skillet, she sprinkled them with a bit of sugar, split them and spread them generously with butter and currant jelly. The tears of frustration were gone, and resignation filled Laura's heart as she placed the scones on a neat tray. Frosty glasses of buttermilk clinked sharply as she served her guests. "Scones, how. Delightful," chirped Julie. But it was plain that she had been expecting something fancier. William reached for a third scone before turning to Laura. "Delicious, Laura, simply delicious," he complimented. 'My mother makes excellent scones, but these are the best I have ever tasted." Laura smiled. Mrs. Barker's cooking ability was of little concern to her right at that moment, since this was the first time that William had called her anything except Sister Grant or Sister Laura. The Thomas clock struck eleven. William stood up. Rather awkwardly, saying, "I must get back to the store, Laura, but I've had a very enjoyable morning." He looked at Aunt Em, who looked at Katie, nodding in Julie's lap. "It's time for Katie's nap," said Aunt Em. "Come, Julie, you can help me get her down." Julie would have remained on the porch, but Aunt Em had her by the arm and into the house before she could protest. "Laura," said William softly, "I hope you understand that I was just following my mother's instruction, in asking to watch 287 APRIL 1964 you set a batch of bread. Before I left St. Louis, I promised Mother that I would follow her recommendations when it came time for me to choose a wife. You meet every qualification, Laura, and it would give me great pleasure if you would consent to be my wife." "But, Papa " Laura began. "He gave me permission to speak to you about it last night," William replied, drawing a small box from his coat pocket. Before she knew quite what was happening, William had placed a ring on the appropriate finger. "T hope it pleases you, Laura," he said. Laura looked at the lovely pearl, surrounded by small rubies. "Oh, William," cried Laura, "I accept." * * * Laura and William were the center of attention at the Harvest Ball. Laura proudly allowed her friends to see her lovely ring, and William acknowledged the hearty congratulations with obvious pleasure. As Laura prepared to enter the house later that evening, William gently lifted her chin to the pale light coming from the sitting room window and sealed the engagement with a tender kiss. In the circle of his arms, Laura asked rather hesitantly, '"William," she began, "you may think me rather bold, but could you tell me what qualities you found in me that your mother required?" "Laura, Laura," he_ smiled, holding her hands in his. ""Mother gave only two requirements, and you met them both. I was to watch you set a batch of bread, so that I could see if you would knead the flour around the pan into the dough. If a woman is thrifty in small things, she'll be thrifty in all things, according to my mother. I was to choose a girl who would be satisfied with plain food and plain living until I can earn a better income in my store. The second requirement was the easiest. I was to love the girl with all my heart." "Oh, William," Laura cried gaily, "I can hardly wait to meet your mother. She sounds like a wonderful person." "Most unusual," smiled William. "William," mused _ Laura, "there's one thing I must have when we begin housekeeping." "Just name it," said William, "and I'll do my best to get it for you." "T'd like a tortoise-shell cat," replied Laura. "It will help to re- | mind me always to be myself!" Gift Apron Beulah Huish Sadleir Spring is in the pocket, Summer in the thread, Blue — to catch the moonbeams, When all but love is dead. 288 Application Louise Murray Tree women once went shopping. Each one bought a well-equipped sewing basket. The first woman took hers home, and put it carefully away for future use, then proceeded with her normal, daily tasks. She became so busy with the routine things of life, that after awhile she forgot about her purchase, and never did get it out and use it. The second woman brought her basket home, and sat down to admire it. She sat looking at the lovely colored threads, the bright needles, the pretty buttons, and the sharp scissors. She thought wistfully of all the beautiful things she would sew — fashionable dresses, embroidered linens, bazaar aprons, and so many more articles. But she daydreamed so long, that she never did have time to do the things she thought about before it was time to turn to other occupations. The third woman took her sewing basket home, and sat down to use it. Small toes were warm because of her fast-flying darning needle. Her happy husband found his buttons sewed on and his shirt collars mended. Because of her industry, her home was lovely with drapes, linens, tea towels, and other products of her skill. The woman herself felt the thrill of accomplishment because she made use of the tools she had bought. When you come to Relief Society and listen to the lesson, to which of these ladies can you be compared? Do you come, listen, and forget? Do you come, listen, and ponder? OR do you come, listen, and apply the gospel truths you hear to your life, brightening not only your life, but the lives of those around you? The Heavens Proclaim Veda G. Linford Above my bed the pointed pines and firs, Shadowed against the slowly darkening sky, Stand guard. Venus, the early evening star Alone bids me goodnight. The murmuring stream enchants me and | sleep. The rustle of a deer feeding at night, The snapping of dry twigs arouses me, | wake to see God's glory in the sky, And earth, turning to meet tomorrow's sun, Seems to be hanging motionless in space. As heaven's pageant drifts toward the west The milky way draws filmy gossamer Across the sky. Now all the trees topping the rim of hills Are filled with twinkling stars. The crescent moon For a brief moment rests on the slender tip Of a tall fir. All this is mine because a moving deer — A crackling branch — awoke me in the night. Spring Fashion Vesta N. Fairbairn. Brown hills Wear pale new grass Like overskirts of tulle With scattered jewels of lupine, Poppies. The Home Stimulus Eva Willes Wangsgaard The sun cut through the fog just now And glistened on the rime, Translating every lucent bough Beyond this place and time, A breath-arresting spectacle, Heart-lifting epilogue To a theme too gray. Now all is well. The sun cut through the fog. Part Vi—-Make the Most of Economical Cuts of Meat Sadie O. Morris MEAT not only is one of the most universally liked foods, but is an excellent source of certain important nutrients. It is valued for the good quality proteins, minerals, and water-soluble vitamins it contributes to the diet. Taste appeal places meat high on the market list; generally it is the first item chosen when planning a menu. Meat is usually judged on the basis of tenderness, juiciness, and flavor. Tenderness is an important factor contributing to the palatability of meat. Certain cuts of meat derived from any animal are relatively less tender than others. The most tender cuts always lie along the backbone and ribs, the less tender parts coming, as a rule, from the shank, shoulder, neck, and under parts of the body. The less tender cuts of meat include sections of muscles that are exercised as the animal walks and grazes. These muscles contain a large proportion of well-developed connective tissue which, unless modified by cookery processes, contributes to toughness. The less tender cuts of meat require the use of moist heat. Moist heat softens the connective tissues making it more tender. These cuts of meat may also be made more tender by pounding, grinding, or cubing. Tenderness of meat is also affected by the temperature at which it is cooked, tenderness increasing with lower temperatures. The lower cooking temperatures retain the juice and flavor of meat and reduce shrinkage. Use of less tender cuts of meat lends interest to the meal because of the great variety of ways these cuts may be prepared. Variety meats, which are the organs, such as liver and heart, are especially high in nutritive value. In addition, they are comparatively low in cost, making them valuable additions to lowcost menus. 291 APRIL 1964 SWISS STEAK ': 2 Ibs. Round or chuck steak, cut into 1-inch thick pieces Ya c". Sifted flour 2 tsp. Salt Ya tsp. Pepper % ec. Fat 2 c. Canned tomatoes Y% ¢. Onion, chopped % tsp. Paprika Combine flour, salt, and pepper; pound into steak, using edge of knife. Slowly brown steak in hot fat in Dutch oven or deep skillet. Combine tomatoes, chopped onion, and paprika in a small boiler; heat to a boil; pour over steak. Cover. Simmer or cook in a moderate oven (350°) for 1% hours. Yield: 6-8 servings 2% Ibs. Short ribs Y% ce. Flour % tsp. Salt % tsp. Pepper 2 tbsp. Fat Y% c. Onions, minced 1 bay leaf Y% c water % ce. Milk Roll the short ribs in the flour, seasoned with the salt and pepper. Brown the short ribs and onions in the fat. Add the water and bay leaf and simmer slowly for 1 hour. Add the milk for gravy and simmer about 10 minutes more. Season gravy to taste. Yield: 4 servings 2% Ibs. Short ribs 2 tbsp. Cornstarch 1 ¢. Beef broth from a beef bouillon cube Yc. Cider vinegar Y% ¢. Brown sugar 2 tbsp. Vegetable oil 1 tbsp. Ground ginger 1 tsp. Accent 1 tbsp. Soy sauce Ya tsp. Salt Brown the short ribs in fat and arrange in a deep baking dish. Combine the remaining ingredients and pour over the short ribs. Bake in a moderately slow oven (350°F) until the meat is tender — about 1% hours. Yield: 4 servings 292 PORCUPINE MEAT BALLS 1 Ib. Ground beef Ya c. Rice, cooked for 5 minutes 1 tbsp. Minced onion tsp. Salt can tomato soup c. Water tbsp. Worcestershire sauce ee ee Combine meat, cooked rice, onion, and salt. Mix well and form into balls. Place in a deep baking dish. Combine tomato soup, water, and Worcestershire sauce. Pour over meat balls. Cover dish, bake at 350°F for 1% hours. Serve hot and pour tomato sauce over the balls. Yield: 5-6 servings % |b. Hamburger 1 c. Shredded raw potatoes 3 tbsp. Finely chopped onion 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Fat Mix together the hamburger, potatoes, onion, and salt. Form into 4 patties. Pan-fry in hot fat about 10 minutes on each side. Serve hot. Yield: 4 patties AARIIDMED 1 Ib. Hamburger V4 |b. (2 cups) dried lima beans Y% tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Fat Barbecue Sauce: % ¢. Onion, sliced 2 tbsp. Sugar 2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tsp. Salt Ya tsp. Chili powder % ¢. Catsup % c. Water Soak lima beans by boiling for 2 minutes, removing from the heat, and soaking for 1 hour (or soak the beans overnight). Cook the beans in boiling salted (% tsp.) water until tender, about 2 hours. Combine barbecue sauce ingredients and simmer 15 minutes. Brown the hamburger in the hot fat. Place cooked lima beans, hamburger, and sauce in alternate layers in a 2-quart casserole. Bake in moderate oven (350°) 45 minutes. Yield: 6-8 servings BARBECUED LIVER AND ONIONS 1 Ib. Liver % c. Chopped onion 2 tbsp. Fat Y% tsp. Pepper \2 tsp. Salt 1 c. Tomato juice 3 tbsp. Flour Brown liver and onions in the fat. Add the seasonings and flour to the tomato juice, and stir. Pour over the liver and onions. Simmer 30 to 40 minutes. Yield: 4-5 servings MARINATED BROILED LIVER 1 Ib. Beef liver Y2 Ib. Bacon (optional) Y% ¢. Vinegar % c. Salad oil 1% tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Pepper Slice liver into Y inch slices. Cut into 1-inch strips. Mix vinegar, oil, salt, and pepper together. Marinate the liver strips in the French dressing mixture for one hour. Wrap each strip in bacon secured at ends with toothpicks. Broil 10 minutes. Yield: 4 servings Note: Liver may be broiled without the bacon by rubbing fat on the surface before broiling. Tr ePrrTaAPRIire 1% lbs. Sliced liver flour 2 tbsp. Fat 3 c¢. Carrots 3 c. Celery % ¢. Onion 1 tsp. Salt Ya tsp. Pepper 1 ¢. Water Dredge liver well with flour. Brown in hot fat. Clean and dice vegetables. Arrange in layers over the slices of liver. Season and add water. Cover and simmer slowly until both the vegetables and the liver are done. Beef liver will take about 45 minutes; pork, lamb, or veal liver about 30 minutes. Yield: 8 servings ARICIC oeripree q I (two variations) To cook tongue: 1 tongue THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT water 1 large onion 1 tbsp. Whole cloves, sliced 2 bay leaves Wash tongue and cover with water. If it is a fresh tongue add 2 tsp. Salt. Add onion, cloves, and bay leaves. Cover and simmer until tender, allowing 1 hour to the pound. Remove skin and trim. Recipe No. 1 1 tongue, cooked, skinned, and trimmed Ya ¢. Diced onions 1 c¢. Diced carrots % c. Diced celery 3 tbsp. Flour small amount of water 1% ¢. Liquid in which the tongue was cooked 1 tsp. Salt Y% tsp. Pepper Cut the cooked, skinned, and trimmed tongue into cubes and place in pan with diced onions, carrots, and celery. Make a smooth paste of flour and small amount of water. Gradually add liquid and seasonings to the paste. Pour over tongue and vegetables. Simmer for 1 hour. Yield: four Ibs. Of tongue will serve 12. TART LIP (aL as mere nrt — Recipe No. 2 1 tongue, cooked, skinned, and trimmed % c. Fat Y2 tsp. Salt 1 bay leaf 3% c. Brown sugar 1% c. Cherries, canned or cooked lc. Liquid in which the tongue was cooked Y2 sliced lemon Slice the tongue and place in a pan with the remaining ingredients. Simmer for 20 minutes. Yield: a four-pound tongue serves 12. Ee rr BIrans aarewne F/T Arm re 1 beef heart 1 8-ounce package noodles Ya c. Fat 2 c. Water 2 tsp. Salt 2 tsp. Pepper Sweet-Sour Sauce: 2 tbsp. Fat 293 APRIL 1964 2 tbsp. Flour 2 c. Liquid in which heart was cooked 4 tbsp. Vinegar 2 tbsp. Brown sugar 1 bay leaf Ye tsp. Thyme 2 whole cloves Ya tsp. Salt Ye tsp. Pepper Wash and trim the heart. If it has been cut, sew into original shape. Cook the noodles in boiling salted water. Drain and combine with one-half of the fat. Fill heart with cooked noodles and save the rest to be heated and served with the heart. Brown the heart on all sides in the remaining fat. Add the water and season with salt and pepper. Add more water during cooking, if necessary. Cover tightly and cook until tender. The average heart (3% Ibs.) will require about four hours for cooking. Remove the heart from the liquid and make the Sweet-Sour Sauce. Melt the fat, add flour, and stir until smooth. Gradually add the liquid, stirring constantly. Cook until thick. Add the vinegar, sugar, and seasonings. Return the stuffed heart to the sauce and simmer for 15 minutes. Serve the heart on a platter with remaining noodles. Remove the bay leaf and cloves from the sauce and serve in a gravy boat. Yield: a 3% lb. Heart serves 12. Empty Nest Ida Elaine James All of you now are gone, and | Wake each day with a lonely cry: 'Good morning, dears! | am loving you," My heart calls out the long day through. | ask: ''How did you spend your day?" Each evening, and at dusk, I say: "What are you doing now?" | see You smiling over the miles to me. The whole day through | cry aloud: '"'How strong | am! How brave! How proud!' But when night comes, the heart lies bare, Shivering in the lonely air. | can only draw around my breast The cloak of memories, dear and blest; "Guard them, Lord!'"' | pray... "'I'm glad For all the beautiful years we had." 294 The Other Day Christie Lund Coles THE other day I went to the seemingly humble home of a widow I had known only casually for a short time. We visited for a little while in the living room and kitchen, where homemade bread was baking in the old-fashioned coal range. Later, we had the heel of a loaf, still warm, melting the butter to liquid gold, and honey, dripping amber magic. Before I left, she took me into her bedroom which, she said, was her prize. And prize, indeed, it was. There in stately age and beauty stood a massive old, old walnut bed. She said it had been brought across the plains by her grandparents. It was as smooth as brown silk. On top of it was an unusual crazy quilt spread, and on top of that were two pillow covers, made of silk and embroidered with the names of the two who had long ago slept in the bed. Near the bed stood the matching washstand, complete with the white china washbowl and water pitcher. Across the room was the dresser with its marble top and oil lamps. On the wall hung a picture made from human hair, and on a small table near the original platform rocker was a bowl of rose leaves, preserved with salt, and still fragrant after nearly a hundred years. Something I had never seen before was a long-haired rug which lay beside the bed. It was white and silky. I asked about it, and she told me that was to warm the feet of the '"'master of the house," when he stepped on the floor. It was made of goat's hair. The woman told me she had been offered good sums, by antique collectors, for everything in the room, but she had refused to sell. (Though, I am sure there had been many times when she had needed the money.) I left the home feeling that every home has its treasures, many of them, indeed, beyond price. Catherine B. Bowles Lord, be kind and merciful to me That | may serve just thee. That every act and deed I do Will bring me nearer, Lord, to you. When darkness comes with setting sun And night is nigh and work is done, Let me feel that thou art near To bring me peace and soothe my fear. 295 How about a "GET IT DONE DAY"? Vera Stocker OF course I try to plan my homemaking tasks to accomplish them with the greatest possible efficiency and dispatch. If I didn't, I would be swamped by the countless demands on the time and strength of a "do-it-yourself"? Homemaker and mother of four school-age children. But even with a good workable schedule, I have found that many small tasks that need to be done and that I want to do, are put off, forgotten, or just plain neglected — things of seemingly little importance, but still have their place in a smooth-running household and a well-ordered family life. 'That is how Get It Done Day came to be an institution in our home. Yes, just that — a regular day set aside in which emphasis is put on doing many small, odd _ jobs, those "must-do-one-of-these-days" kind. Ours is the first weekday of each month, or as soon after as may be convenient. On that day I do the minimum of regular housework, hurrying through the breakfast dishes, beds, and dusting in double-quick time, and preparing easy-to-get meals. Then to the game, for I am not averse to a little playful competition between me and time. It adds interest to see just how many needed tasks I can accomplish before the day is done. There is a pleasant variety, too. This is the time for small jobs, but many — remember? 296 Likely I will have the oil can out. I have a habit of forgetting to oil certain small appliances. The kitchen screwdriver may be in use, too, and my spot cleaners for upholstery and wallpaper. A pleasant breeze may invite me to air all our blankets and pillows. It is a good time to wipe off all the light globes in the house — a job that should be routine and isn't with me. I will thin out our pile of magazines, tieing up those back numbers, then box up some discarded clothing of the children, arranging at once for delivery of both to places where they will be welcomed. I look at the bright new page on the calendar, and note that it is time for the check on Jamie's teeth, and remind myself to remind my husband to make the appointment for his annual physical examination. Oh, yes, some birthdays are in the offing. I will make certain decisions about these today instead of waiting until the eleventh hour, and I will take a look at my gift wrappings and greeting card supply. (A pencil and pad are handy, of course. ) I will have other reminders, too — for instance, a check of the bathroom may show some nearly empty bottles and tubes, and other low supplies. If my household accounts are not up-to-date, now is the time, and I will also sort and file properly the recipes I have clipped. I hate to darn socks, but with my feet on the hassock, music on the radio, and a cool lemonade beside me, I will get to the bottom of that basket in a short time. Or, possibly, I will drop everything for an hour and make a call on that lonely, elderly woman down the street — something I have been meaning to do for a long time. With a little prodding, the children, after school, get into the getit-done spirit. 'The boys agree to clean the dog house, and even give Rover a bath, and straighten things up in the garage. One boy will enjoy checking the car door in regard to the next oil change. Joey rightly thinks it is a good time to remind me of the np in his sleeping bag and an overnight Scout trip coming up. Sister may finally get HOW ABOUT A "GET IT DONE DAY'? Her bureau drawers tidied, and with Scotch tape mend all the torn jackets on our books. Six-year-old Jan loves to paste all our loose trading stamps in the books so Mommie can get herself a present. Before bedtime I may have written that long-delayed answer to Great-Aunt Susan's last letter. And husband, dear old sport, not to be outdone, all by himself has noticed the drip of the kitchen faucet, and has made an iron-clad promise to fix it on Saturday. When I add my accomplishments to those of each member of the family, the total is often a pleasant surprise. No wonder our ten-year-old once said, "Mother, instead of "Get It Done Day," we ought to call it "Get Them Done Today." oo CO) it Was Springtime 8h 3 | Oo Evelyn Fjeldsted Ons afternoon in the spring, I sat down and leaned my head against the trunk of an old apple tree. A foamy little irrigation stream was finding its way down the furrows and among the trees, making little dams of last year's leaves, each one finally breaking away and rushing downstream like a little floating island. A few furrows away a robin was walking step by step like a gentleman. He stopped suddenly and, with his head slightly on one side, peered closely at the ground. With a few sharp pecks a prize worm was his. A few ants were striving tirelessly to climb a damp furrow, only to fall back and be buried in the soil, while in the tangled roots a frog sounded his keynote at irregular intervals and met with no response. A little gray hawk aloft in the sky, tipped his wings and was gone. A hummingbird, like a bobbin with wings, wheeled over the tops of the trees. A small breeze whirled swiftly by, and apple blossom petals, like tiny pink saucers, floated on the water. This was all staged while a length of cloud material, like a soft warm blanket, was being unrolled overhead. I closed my eyes and fell asleep and was abruptly awakened by a splash of rain on my face. 297 Round Table Togetherness Last night after my small son had sat by the dining-room table coaxing me to play a word-game with him, I felt pangs of guilt because I had said, "I'm much too busy." While working at the task that kept me from my son, my thoughts wandered back to the times when I was a child and had played games with my Mother. I wondered how she had found the time to do so many things with us. I could see a happy family sitting around the table on a cold winter night. 'T'wo of us engaged in a game of ticktacktoe, someone reading a book or studying a lesson for school; the little ones coloring pictures, cutting paper dolls, or creating some piece of childish art from modeling clay. Now I had a mental image of five exuberant children, glowing faces, folded hands, waiting patiently for a piece of candy that Mother was making from maple sugar and black walnuts. We had all participated in cracking and picking out the nut meats the preceding night. I thought of the times we sat around the table watching Mother 298 Violet Nimmo cut out dresses for us, or helped us make doll clothes. Each of us took his or her place at the table when Mother read a recent letter from Aunt Suzy, or when we had a family discussion on finding the little culprit who had broken the hoe handle or, maybe, a blue willow cup. I visualized seven bowed heads around that old-fashioned round table, asking the Lord to bless the food of which we were about to partake. Perhaps the meal consisted of a pot of beans, corn bread, and a baked apple for dessert. The beans and corn had been harvested from our huge vegetable garden where we all shared many happy days of tilling and planting. Mother ground the corn in an old iron grinder. The apples came from our orchard off trees which were pruned, grafted, and tenderly cared for by our Father. Some people referred to him as Mr. Green Thumb, because he liked to make things grow. On special holidays, extra leaves were added to that old table. It wore the one and only snowy white linen tablecloth and was laid with our best china and the good silver. Table decorations were usually homemade nut cups, holding popcorn glazed with maple sugar, toasted hickory nuts, and bits of candied orange peel. Sometimes we made funny little men from apples or from various vegetables, and placed them beside each plate. The table groaned with the burden of tasty casseroles, spicy dressings, fowl, salads, homemade pickles and jellies, freshly baked fruit pies, and sugar cookies that Mother let us decorate to our own fancy, always remembering to tell us how exquisite they were. Sometimes we sat around the table drinking mugs of hot eggnog and listened to stories told by Mother or Father, while the burning wood crackled in the fireplace and bayberry leaves parched on the hearth. The mingling fragrance of nutmeg and bayberry must was enough to create a festive mood. Occasionally, we gathered about the ROUND TABLE TOGETHERNESS table for an hour or two of song and harmony. Coloring eggs for Easter, or making frilly May baskets for May Day have given me many pleasant memories. Saturday mornings always found the old table loaded with large golden loaves of Mother's homemade bread and rolls. On Sunday it held our Sunday School and Church papers, and we all sat around while Father read from the old family Bible. Me KK Coming back to the present reality, I said to myself, this job can wait until tomorrow. "All right, son," I offered. "How about that game we were going to play? When we finish the game let's make some cookies and frost them with funny faces." I thought, perhaps tomorrow I will glaze some popcorn and candy some... Oh, dear! I do believe I have forgotten how to candy orange peel. Halfway Zara Sabin | stand at the summit of Halfway Hill The road has not seemed long. With laughter and tears | have met the years Or danced to a care-free song. | pause to look back at the green-clad hill — Its sunshine and utter peace throw The brightness of hope on the upward slope Of the way that | still must go. Though rocks and thorns beset the path That | sometimes wearily trod They will be as a wraith while | walk by faith Sustained by my trust in God. 299 Cover-ups for Older Tots Adelle Ashby SomeETIMES middle-sized children need to wear some kind of a protection over their clothes when eating, but would rebel at the suggestion of a bib. On a Sunday, for instance, when you want your children to stay fresh and clean between meetings, it is a great convenience to have some kind of an aid at mealtime. Here are three "cover-up" ideas that are so eye catching and different, that the roughest, biggest, little cowboy in your family will love to wear one. CANDY CANE COVER-UP: The first cover-up is for the child just above the tiny tot in age. It is a candy-cane bib. The best material for this bib is a heavy terry cloth. If you have a worn bath towel, there is likely to be enough good material left to make this bib. To cut the candy-cane bib, first cut a rectangle of about twelve inches by fourteen inches. These bibs should be quite large, so as to cover well. Now cut a neck curve in the center of one of the 12" edges. The curve 300 al TED should be about 414 inches wide, and about 1% inches deep at the lowest point. Bind the bib with bright red bias, leaving the neck curve. Now bind this curve with the same bias tape, leaving about ten inches on both ends for ties. To make the candy cane, take a ten-inch length of red rickrack and also a ten-inch length of white rickrack. Interlock the two colors so that they look braided. Make another smaller cane of seven-inch rickrack lengths. Now stitch them on the bib in a candycane shape, adding a bright red bow on each cane. Candy canes are popular with the children at all times of the year. SISTER'S BLOUSE COVER-UP: If you make a cover-up for sister, she will love one that looks like a blouse. This bib could be made from an old white shirt, or from a white or lightcolored discarded towel. Make it the same size as the first bib, or as long as her dress, for added protection. Cut the neck curve as before. This time, hem all around with a narrow hem. Now make a make-believe collar, pocket, and center strips, and also bind the neck with the new bright striped bias that is on the market, or use any you have on hand. If you add the realistic touch of four shirt buttons down the front, any little girl would be proud to wear it. BROTHER'S VEST COVER-UP: This cover-up bib is for the young man of the house, who has trouble keeping his white shirt spotless for church going. Cut the bib as indicated in the diagram. If you will clip a little 14- inch mark into the upper and lower V, it will be easier to stitch on the bias tape. First, hem both long edges with a tiny hem. Now bind this bib also with a bright striped bias tape, and sew it on in this order: tie string and upper left V, then lower left V. In one operation, bind lower right, continue with tape up front (folded) and bind upper right, leaving a tie. Add fake pockets and four shirt buttons. Fold _ | a. F ~\ >I" 301 ho, finds e lovely making quil Contrasting Colors €, even Stitching make her has j much Pleasure in 302 Hazel M. Thomson Your Heart tO ~ I \ Understanding Chapter 3 Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, are traveling to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake in a wagon train commanded by Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena's fiance has died at Winter Quarters, and Selena, in bitterness and sorrow, cannot be comforted. Belle, a large, strong woman, trades for a pair of Indian moccasins, and finding them too small for her, she sends Selena to offer them to Josiah who has injured his foot. Josiah attaches marital significance to the gift of the moccasins, according to an Indian custom. SELENA and Belle had just finished putting their dishes away after the evening meal when Josiah arrived. His hair was parted in the middle and _ combed smoothly. He was wearing his Sunday clothes. With the moccasins on his feet he walked with only a slight limp. Feeling that there was no need of beating around the bush, he came directly to the point. "I come courting," he said, looking straight at Belle. —— \\ \ QW \ NN "Oh!" she said, picking up the last of the pans and heading toward the wagon. She had been through similar experiences before and knew when it was her move. "I have to put these away, Selena. I'll be in the wagon." Josiah stepped directly in her path. "It's you I'm courting," he said. Belle dropped the pans she was carrying. The iron kettle fell with a thud, barely missing Josiah's sore foot. But Josiah did not budge. "Me?" gasped Belle. "Yes, you. Is that so all-fired 303 APRIL 1964 strange? Meaning no offense to you, Ma'am," he said, nodding politely toward Selena, "but I've been thinking about your sister these past few days, wondering how I could get up the courage to speak to her." His eyes turned back to Belle, standing open-mouthed before him. "And now, tonight, she goes and gives me all the encouragement any man would need." Belle, completely at a loss as to what to do in the face of his open admiration of her, stared. That look in his eyes, she had seen it many times before in the eyes of Selena's suitors, but never until now directed toward her. "Encouragement? Tonight? Me?" Her words didn't seem coherent. Neither did her whirling thoughts. "IT might have expected you to manage things right well, seeing as how you always do, but I was more than a mite surprised when Selena brought the moccasins. Where you heard about that old Indian custom I don't know, but it makes no difference. I thought we might go for a walk together and be back in time to start the dancing. Even with this sore foot I'm going to dance tonight!" "Indian custom? What...?" Selena took her dazed sister by the arm and led her toward the wagon. "This night air is a little cool. Belle had better get a shawl," she said. "T'll be waiting right here," said Josiah. "Don't be too long — honey." Belle choked. 304 "Selena!" she said. ''What's come over him? What happened?" "T don't know," Selena whispered back, "but pull yourself together. I'll get you my best shawl. Here, take my cornstarch bag and wipe the shine off your face. It will be good for you to be dancing for once, the way you sit here every night and tap your toes." Selena climbed back out of the wagon, draped the shawl around her sister's shoulders and smoothed Belle's hair. "There. You look lovely, Belle. Have a good time dancing." "Dancing! I think he wants to marry me!" Selena laughed gaily. For the first time in a long while she seemed more sure and more in control of the situation than Belle was. "Well, what would you think of that?" she asked. Belle actually trembled. "I think it would be wonderful," she said. "I had no idea Josiah could be so masterful." THE rest of the trip into the Great Salt Lake Valley was one of complete happiness for Belle. Josiah came every morning to yoke up her oxen for her. The first three mornings he came only to find them all ready to go. Selena took a hand then, suggesting that since Josiah so obviously wanted to help, that she wait the next morning and give him opportunity to do so. The look of satisfaction and pride on his face more than repaid Belle for the inactivity of waiting. The bond of friendship and understanding between Lon and Belle had deepened as he learned that Belle was to become the wife of his best friend as soon as they arrived in the Valley. "T knew you'd like Josiah, when you really came to know him,"' Lon said one afternoon as they followed the wagon road in the mountains, 'everyone does. He's a fortunate man, Belle. I wish I were as lucky." "But you haven't said a word to Selena. How do you hope to learn how she feels if you never tell your own feelings, Lon?" "I know how she feels all right," said Lon, moving back by the wagon wheel and moving along beside it. "She leaves no doubt about that. I guess I could never measure up to him. He must have been pretty near perfect, Belle, for Selena to have loved him so much." "That's just it, Lon. He wasn't. He came into Nauvoo as a member of a gang of counterfeiters. It was a pretty good place for that sort of thing for awhile. Everything that happened was blamed on the Mormons. But after the saints moved out he moved on to Winter Quarters. I don't know what his next plan was, but you can be sure that he had one." Lon stepped up on the wagon tongue and swung himself up beside Belle. His voice was intense. "Belle! Are you sure of all this? How can Selena be so loyal to the memory of a man like that?" "Tt's simple. She doesn't know. I never found out about it until after his death, and then, quite by accident, I overheard some talk that wasn't meant for me." "But why didn't you tell her? Why let her go on tearing her heart out over a rascal?" YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING "T had no proof. After I heard what I did, I inquired around a little. I was convinced that it was true but Selena would never believe me. Besides, she was so heartbroken, I had no wish to add to the sorrow she already felt." For a time there was only the sound of the wagon wheels on the rocky creek bed where the road lay at this point. Then Lon said, "Nor shall I tell her. If I can't win her love without that, perhaps I don't deserve to have st ed Nort until the last night on the trail before entering the Valley did Lon say anything to Selena. She had left her own wagon where Josiah and Belle were discussing their own future, in order to give them a measure of privacy, and Lon saw her walking alone past his own camp. "Selena!" he cried. "Oh! Hello, Lon," she answered and would have walked on, but he raised his hand for her to stop. "Is anything wrong?" he asked. "No. It's just that I'm always there, listening to whatever Belle and Josiah have to say to each other. I just felt they would welcome being alone once in awhile." Lon looked down at her. Her face was the most beautiful face he had ever seen. His heart pounded. "Selena, we'll be coming into the Valley tomorrow." "Ves," "I'm almost sorry the trip is ending." He moved near and stood beside her chair. She did not look up. 305 APRIL 1964 "T love you, Selena. When we reach the Valley I should like to have the privilege of calling." She did not answer and he waited, wondering if she had even heard. "Selena?" he said softly. "If you like," she said again, still not looking at him. A feeling of hopelessness swept over Lon. He had the impression that, had he even asked her to marry him, she would have said the same thing. Fle was to find himself confronted many times during that first winter in the Great Salt Lake City by her icy indifference. He continued to live in the wagon, while Josiah and Belle, after their marriage, which took place almost immediately after their arrival, were successful in obtaining a two-room log cabin that had been vacated. '"'How did we happen to be so lucky?" Belle asked when Josiah told her about getting a cabin without having to build. "There are lots of cabins empty right now," Josiah answered. "A goodly number of the saints have been called to make settlements in other places. The newest one, I hear, is to be named Peteetneet. How would you like it if we happened to be called?' The wagon trip west had been the happiest time of Belle's life. The thought of another one 'would be very agreeable to her. With the arrival of early spring Josiah and Belle became interested in joining the groups who were going to California. "Looks like we'll be going on, Selena," said Josiah, when the 306 decision had been made. "You will go with us?" Selena did not protest. If this was what Belle and _ Josiah wanted, it was not her place to interfere. Life held so little promise to her. After all, what difference would it make, here or there? "Where is the settlement to be made?" It was Belle, not Selena, who asked the question. "T don't exactly know," Josiah answered, "'but Captain Jefferson Hunt and others who were in the Battalion have seen the _ land. They say it's the most beautiful place on earth, Belle! Sunshine and growing weather the whole year around. Why, we'll have a better farm than we could ever have, here in this desert." "But don't you even know the direction we will be traveling?" asked his wife. "Oh, I read the official bulletin from the First Presidency: 'A settlement is to be made at no great distance from San Diego, near Chino Rancho, close by the Cajon Pass.' That's the instructions. It won't be west from here. We'll be taking a southern route. Those that have seen it love the country down there. Some of them seem to feel that President Young made a mistake in stopping here in this place." WJosiAH found Lon to be a bit skeptical on more than one point of argument. "This is the place," he said. "President Young said so himself, and if this is where the Lord wants this people to be, then it seems to me that this is where we ought to stay. Besides, I've heard a little about that trail to California. The boys who were in the Battalion say there are miles of desert. You'll find out, Josiah, it is no grassy plain you'll be crossing." "What. Of it?" asked Josiah, "we'll have guides who know the road. They know just where to stop so there will be watering places, and a time or two when we have to carry water. That's all." "No, it's not all," said Lon. "President Young refused in no uncertain words to follow Sam Brannan in his scheme to move the saints to the Gold Coast. Now, a few years later, here we are planning to go right along anyway." "But this is different, Lon. This whole undertaking has the approval of the Authorities. We're not heading for the gold fields, nor anywhere near Sutter's Fort, but to make a settlement near the sea coast, from which missionaries going to the Islands of the Sea can be helped on their way, and those who return to this country can be _ received. Why, Lon, there are two of the apostles who have been assigned to lead this company." Lon turned quickly and faced his friend. "Now, I didn't know that, Josiah. Since when? Who are they?" "Since yesterday is all that I have known it, but both Brother Lyman and Brother Rich are going. Does that put a new light on things?" "It certainly does!" said Lon. "T hated to think of your going without me, but since it does not mean going against counsel, I'll be right along with you." YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING Durinc the remaining days of preparation Lon felt a_ great weight had lifted from him. The thoughts of Selena going on while he could not bring himself to join in the move had been depressing in the extreme. There were a few occasions, he felt, when he had seen a glimpse of the real Selena; once when their eyes first met, in the cemetery at Winter Quarters. Her grief had been new then, and her face not yet accustomed to the mask she now habitually wore. Again, on the day that she had taken the moccasins to Josiah, Lon had felt something of the warmth and beauty deep inside the girl which matched the loveliness of her features. Whether he could ever arouse any response in Selena to his own great affection, he did not know, but at least he was going to have ample opportunity to try. At last the day came for departure and they drove their wagons south, down the street of the fast-growing, thriving city. Everyone they passed waved, wishing them God-speed and success in the new colony to be built. It was thrilling and exciting to Belle, and Selena seemed to respond in a measure to the feelings of the others. As they neared the southern end of the valley where the mountains came close together, separating the Valley of the Great Salt Lake from the Valley of the Utahs, Selena accepted Lon's invitation to ride with him for a part of the afternoon. High on the wagon seat, her dark hair framing her face under her sunbonnet, Lon thought he 307 APRIL 1964 had never seen anything so beautiful. At that moment he felt that if he should ask her to marry him, she would accept. Yet, this was not what he wanted. He wanted Selena for his wife, yes. But he wanted the laughter, the gaiety, stored up within her; and most of all he wanted her love. THE organization of the wagon train was the same as that used in crossing the plains; that is, there were divisions of ten wagons, each with its commander; divisions of fifty, having a commander, and Brother Rich and Brother Lyman acting as general overseers of the entire company of one hundred fifty wagons. There were 588 oxen, 336 cows, 21 young stock, 107 horses, 52 mules, and 437 men, women, and children. "We'll have our own city as soon as we arrive," said Belle, looking back along the line of wagons, stretching miles behind them. "They won't all be staying in California, you know," replied Josiah. "Brother Parley Pratt and his group of missionaries will want to be on their way to the ocean and on to the South Sea Islands as soon as possible." "Still, it won't be a lonesome kind of life, with so many of the saints there. At least it will not be so for us, Josiah. We'll have a good life together, but it's Selena that bothers me. She hasn't attempted to make one friend yet in the entire wagon train." Josiah looked at his wife out of the corner of his eye. He waited as the wagon rode over 308 some rather large boulders before he spoke. "T've been meaning to tell you this, Belle," he said. "You know that young chap in the wagon just behind Lon's? Well, he has been mighty curious about Selena, almost from the first day out. Wanted to know whether she was married or promised or anything." "So!" exclaimed Belle. "That's why he's been spending so much time around our camp these last few evenings! He has his eyes on Selena! I might have known! Seems like it's been so long since she took any interest in a young man that I've become accustomed to having things that way." Belle reached out a hand to the lines Josiah held and pulled the team to a halt. "I've decided that my sister is not going to marry a complete stranger!"' "Marry him! For goodness sake, Belle. As yet she doesn't even know the young man." "That's what I said. A stranger. You know how she is, Josiah. She just doesn't care — not about anything these days. And if he proposed to her tomorrow, like as not she'd say yes. Well, I'm not taking the chance." BELLE moved on to the wagon behind Josiah's. He spoke to his team and they moved forward. Belle's mind was made up. There was no need in saying more and perhaps down deep Josiah agreed with what his wife planned to do. He realized his protest had been somewhat feeble. '"'Lon," said Belle, as she took his hand and climbed from the wagon tongue to the front of the wagon and took her seat beside him. "Do you want to marry Selena?"' Lon looked at her, startled. "Don't joke with me, Belle. Not about that." "T'm not joking, Lon. I'm asking you, serious. Do you want to marry my sister?" "Belle!" For a moment there was hope and happiness in Lon's eyes. "She didn't...."" Then he stopped. The hope had faded. "No, of course, she didn't say anything. For a moment I." Lon stopped, embarrassed. "T know what you hoped. I have hoped so, too," said Belle, kindly. "But we've got to do something, Lon. There's a young man in camp who keeps asking Josiah all sorts of questions about her. He was at our campfire last night and the night before. He stayed YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING for hours last night, claiming he had to dry out his boots. I didn't catch on then, not until Josiah told me what had been happening whenever the young man gets around him. It's always something about Selena. She's so at loose ends, Lon. She isn't herself, and if he decided to ask her to marry him, I'm afraid she would do it. Why don't you ask her first, Lon?' "T want to, Belle. You know I do. I'd have asked her long before this except for one little detail. Selena doesn't love me." Belle placed a hand on Lon's arm. She felt the muscles, hard and tight under her fingers. "She doesn't love him either, Lon. But when he asks her to marry him Selena will say yes." (To be continued) Deserted Farm House Annie Atkin Tanner Alone it stands beside the mauve and fluted hills, Hot sun rays scorch its aging roof And winter rains wash off the summer dust. A muted wind swings the loosened shutters And brushes on the darkened window-panes. Tall junipers shake their azure berries Like warning bells at night. Straight and strong as sentinels They guard the quiet rooms, Which once were filled with laughter. No more a yellow light shines on a winding path To guide a family home. No more a song is heard. All is loneliness Beside the mauve and fluted hills. 309 iesieees Fro Semel b General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker New Orleans Stake (Louisiana) Relief Society Holds ''Blast-Off'' Social For Ward Leaders September 21, 1963 Seated, center foreground: Beulah B. Larson, former president, New Orleans Stake Relief Society. Sister Larson reports: "The stake board held this social to establish close working relations between the stake and ward officers and class leaders, and to get our new Relief Society year off to a good start. A humorous play 'Relief Society — Why?' was presented to encourage full participation in the Relief Society program. Other numbers on the program included a reading, special musical numbers, and a rendition by ward Singing Mothers group. Each stake officer and board member sat with and served lunch to her group of ward leaders. After lunch, we held our first leadership meeting of the new year. Another skit — 'The Good Ship Relief Society' — was used to introduce members of the stake board. After opening exercises, we conducted our usual departmental work, which brought to a close a very successful day in Relief Society. We feel that it laid the foundation for greater achievements in our stake." Cleora K. Williams is the new president of New Orleans Stake Relief Society. Ogden Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Front row, seated, left to right: Ruth G. Williams, Second Counselor; Pearl G. Williams, President; Marguerite R. Burton, First Counselor; Joyce Montgomery, assistant organist; Arvilla P. Arrowsmith, stake organist; Neva P. Simonsen, stake chorister; K. Gunn McKay, narrator of the presentation "God So Loved the World." Other participants: Patti Ann Jensen; Gayle Anderson; Marion Romander; Lucille Richardson; Afton P. CKell; Edith G. Briem. Sister Williams reports: ""We are very proud of the accomplishments of our Singing Mothers this year. They have furnished the music for stake conference, together with Relief Society conference. Each month in our Relief Society leadership meeting a chorus from one of the wards has furnished special musical numbers. In April the Singing Mothers presented a beautifully arranged concert in the Ogden Tabernacle, before a large audience. We were very happy for the presence of Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society. At our annual spring party held in May for all the women in the stake, we presented 'God So Loved the World.' The Singing Mothers furnished the music for that beautiful presentation. It was so favorably received that seven of our bishops asked that the presentation be given in their sacrament meetings. Our stake presidency was host to all the stake presidencies in the Ogden region at a lovely banquet. For this occasion the Singing Mothers were asked to give the presentation of 'God So Loved the World." It was beautifully rendered and very inspirational. Everyone enjoyed the evening and expressed a greater desire to keep the commandments of our Father in heaven more fully and to serve him better." 310 Se Soccer 311 APRIL 1964 Washington Stake (Washington, D. C.) Chevy Chase Ward Bazaar November 8-9, 1963 Virginia Cameron is seen admiring a hand-knit hat and sweater, made and modeled by Marjorie Van Camp (seated); Frances G. Bennett, second from the left, Elese B. Lundberg, and Mirandy Allison (right) are displaying some of the hundreds of handmade articles and objects of art displayed at the bazaar. Marcia C. Steele, President, Washington Stake Relief Society, reports the theme was international and the general public was invited. A special feature of the bazaar was the display of many of the paintings included in the Seventieth Annual Exhibition of the Society of Washington Artists, from the National Collection of Fine Arts, Smithsonian Institution. Original creative stitchery and crewel embroidered wall hangings, Swedish embroidered tote bags, Sauna shifts, floral boutique pieces, ceramic pins, papier mache figures, as well as hand-knit sweaters, hats, slippers, and baby things, in addition to candle and wreath arrangements, and a large assortment of Christmas gifts kept the sisters busy for months preparing for the bazaar. Alice Marriott's mustard pickles and jams were in great demand at the gourmet booths, which offered a wide variety of homemade foods. Breads of the world, cakes, penny candy, country sausage, ham sandwiches, and homemade root beer were among the fast selling foods which were beautifully displayed. Monument Park West Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Holds "Fair Exchange" September 20, 1963 Left to right: Wanda N. Ericson, Work Director Counselor; Marcella B. Bramwell, Secretary-Treasurer; Clarice Cooper, President; Ruth H. Willes, Education Counselor. Sister Cooper reports: 'A very successful and beautiful 'Fair Exchange' was held September 20, 1963. It was extremely gratifying to have approximately 500 people call during the hours from 10 A. M. Until 12 noon. Each of the seven wards of the stake was responsible for one booth, and in addition brought three articles for the 'Bazaar Booth.' A number of other talented people were generous in demonstrating special skills. Sister Bramwell had prepared a very interesting and informative chart on attendance at the various meetings. Nyena S. Nelson, theology class leader, Fae S. Carlson, literature class leader, Ruby E. Henderson, social science class leader, and Pat S. Lowder, Magazine representative, had eye-catching booths demonstrating their work. "The hall was festive, decorated in rich fall colors. Streamers, fanning out from a balloon-decorated high point on the back wall, suggested a huge tent. The names of the booths were printed in black on green, scalloped, corrugated paper which extended from pole to pole so as to make a continuous border. Very interesting names were used, such as: Sweet Shoppe, Norwegian Pancakes, Bread Basket, Cookie Carousel, Closet Door, Feather Fantasy, Knitting Needle, Fall's Creations, Christmas Ideas, Bazaar Items, Glamor Cobbler, and Nature's Magic and Originals. Everything shown or demonstrated could be made by hand. Samples and recipes were given wherever food was demonstrated. "The beautiful serving table featured a lovely centerpiece of ribbon chrysanthemums made by Ruby Swallow. Punch and cookies made by the board members were served by Margaret J. Harmon, stake music director, and Golda T. Evans, visiting teacher message leader. Bernice P. Engeman, stake organist, played beautiful and appropriate music during the entire 'Fair Exchange.' Those attending 'signed in,' and the ward with the largest number received a prize. Those who came received some excellent ideas for bazaars and work meetings, along with a renewed desire to attend Relief Society and receive its many benefits." 312 (naan ens Christmas ideas -APRIL 1964 West German Mission Relief Society Officers Display Baby Quilts Made to Introduce Quilting to German Sisters Left to right: Elfriede Zihlsdorf, President, Frankfurt Branch Relief Society; Elisabeth Uhlig, Counselor, Frankfurt Branch Relief Society; Louise C. Heyman, district leader, Frankfurt District; Mella Uchtdorf, SecretaryTreasurer, Frankfurt Branch Relief Society. Sister Heyman reports: "Sister McIntire, wife of President Wayne F. McIntire of the West German Mission, for a long time has had the desire to introduce quilting to the German sisters. So, at our Mission Relief Society Conference in May 1963, she made her desire known. A baby quilt, made of different kinds of quilt blocks, was prepared, and instructions and measurements were given to the sisters. A talk on the history of quilting and what our pioneer women have done along that line, was presented, and the desire of the General Board of Relief Society to have this art preserved among the sisters was mentioned. It was also pointed out that much good has been accomplished by the distribution of quilts in times of need. "The idea was received very favorably by the sisters. The Frankfurt sisters began their quilt-making projects with great enthusiasm, and they have now finished their first baby quilt and have already started another one. The quilts are made from materials purchased locally, including the batting." Riverdale Stake (Utah), Riverdale Ward Wins Quilt for Highest Attendance at Relief Society Visiting Teacher Convention September 28, 1963 Front row, left to right: Jean Porter, organist; Doris Woodbury, Counselor; Perneica Fiet, Counselor; Ruth Ritter, President; stake officers: Myrl S. Stewart, President; Della Greenwell, First Counselor; Nina Atwood, SecretaryTreasurer; board members: Margie Peterson, Ileen Henderson, Beth Tesch. Second row, left to right: Ruth Burton; Elva Hawkley; Neta Farr; Blanche Gibby; Donna Child; Ida Ritter; Mary Child; Pearl Child; Leah Cook; Mabel Ellis; Tillie Adams. Back row, left to right: Carol Nessen; Virginia Jackson; Jackie Kellerstrass; Bessie Boswell; Gladys Sorenson; Coralee Green; Jean Jensen; Elaine Ewert; Berdean Crabtree; Myrtle Carlsen, Hazel Manning; Asenath Davis. Sister Stewart reports: "This was such a unique and inspiring convention. Humble, sincere talks were given to inspire and encourage the visiting teachers. A special poem "The Sacred Calling of the Visiting Teacher,' written by Lila Lutz, was read by her, and a copy, typed on blue paper and decorated with the Relief Society seal and gold ribbon, was presented to each visiting teacher present. The singing of the stake Singing Mothers chorus was glorious and beautiful. The film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown. It was very spiritual, and every teacher was thrilled, enthused, and inspired to be a better visiting teacher. "The Riverdale Stake Relief Society presidency and board members made the exquisitely beautiful quilt of green and white border print, quilted in a very pretty pattern. The Riverdale Ward had eighty-two per cent of their visiting teachers in attendance at the convention, which was an exceptionally splendid record. Our aim this year is to double our attendance at the monthly visiting teacher meetings, which, in turn, will improve greatly the quality of our teaching. We feel that every teacher went away from the convention with the resolve to be a better teacher in every way. Dainty refreshments were served." 314 NOTES FROM THe FIELD 315 ARI a, Aomy ws, APRIL 1964 we Northern Far East Mission Relief Society Sisters at Youth Conference Tokyo, Japan, August 1963 First three women, starting at the wall, and curving to the front, left to right: Toshi Suzuki, East Central District Relief Society President; Shizuko Asakawa, First Counselor, East Central District; Chieko Abe, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society Counselor. Far right, at the back, Peggy H. Andersen, President, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society. Large Kanji character sign says: Fujo Kyokai — "Relief Society." Displays represent the different departments. Sister Andersen reports: "For the first time in the history of the Northern Far East Mission, an all-youth conference was held for four days in August 1963. One of the highlights of the conference was the last day — Sunday, at which time the various departments of the Church demonstrated a typical meeting. The Sunday School, Genealogy Department, Priesthood, and Relief Society participated. "It was a thrilling sight to watch these lovely Japanese women meet for the first time in a building of their own. All meetings were held in the first chapel ever constructed in Japan. The building was not quite completed, but the saints were overwhelmed with the spirit manifested in these meetings. The artificial flowers in the picture were made out of paper napkins in order to cover up the unfinished pulpit. At the Relief Society section the various departments of theology, work meeting, literature, and social science were explained, and the visiting teacher message department was _ particularly stressed. Also, the lessons for 1963-64 were summarized. "It is significant to note that a large percentage of our women in Japan are among the youth, so it was only natural that Relief Society should be included in a Youth Conference. Since many of the girls and women are unmarried, I spoke to them concerning the power and dignity of womanhood, and of preparing themselves for a worthy Priesthood bearer. About 200 were in attendance at the special Relief Society gathering, but the picture represents various officers from several branches. Another thrilling sight was to see the members from branches all over Japan as they said goodbye to one another. For the first time in the mission many of them were privileged to meet one another. Tears were shed in almost every case, as they expressed the wonderful spirit of the Lord which was felt in the meeting." 316 Sleep lris W. Schow Sleep is to mount with Pegasus And leave one's groove to soar afar, Forward or backward into time To lands more numerous than there are. Sleep is the glad surrender, when The muscle and the mind are made To yield up pain, fatigue, and grief, That time may mend what life has frayed. Sleep is the calm rehearsal we Perform each night by closing eyes On all life holds, and through the dark Resting in faith we shall arise. WORLD'S FAIR — APRIL TO OCTOBER — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours There will be several tours to the World's Fair including the Hill Cumorah Pageant. MEXICO — JUNE, 1964 EUROPE — AUGUST, 1964 HAWAII — MONTHLY TOURS Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 SACRED MUSIC FOR LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES —sCOME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen 20 =. IlFORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD | GO—Schumano 20 a. GRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP PEACE OF MIND—Stickles 25 wae llHEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn 000002 00. 25 a. IN THY FORM—Madsen.20 —LET ALL MY LIFE BE MUSIC—Spross ~ 00 ee..30 ey. LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.20 LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS—Armbruster 25 iLORD'S PRAYER—Gates.20 "illMY REDEEMER LIVES—Gates.20 oo. OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert _.20 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY ——SCS 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Please send the music _ indicated above. [} Money Enclosed Name.. Address i | | 1 i! | [J On Approval [] Charge!! I 1!! 15 E. Ist South | / Salt Lake City 11, Utah | The New Magna-Vu % A little marvel for reading, crocheting, and knitting... 3% Hangs around your neck and sits on your chest comfortably. % Leaves the hands free for working. %& Comes in a leather case. % Magnifies a large area beautifully ideal for fine $5.27 in money order, check. I have an work and for looking at detail. Account, please charge. Name Address. 2++s+:10805+) 0 City 2 2. Zone... State! Glass! $4.95 plus 32 cents postage. Esere COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY Asa SS = a SS SSS aie Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. Please send me a Magna Vu Glass. Enclosed is Residents of Utah include 3'2% sales tax. WORLD'S FAIR TOURS 21 days — June 21 to July 11: World's Fair, Church historical places (does not include pageant). Ae Thank You Loretta Hanson 27 days — July 13 to August 8: World's Fair, Church historical places. Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also, Thank you for your kindness, For thoughtful things you've done; Quebec and Montreal, Canada. A 24 days — July 23 to August 15: World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. = All tours include: Show at Jones' Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway Show and a special event ticket at World's Fair, ete. Oo Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 318 For always knowing what to say, When darkness hides the sun. Thank you for your friendship, A true and priceless gift; For always being close at hand, When spirits need a lift. Words can never tell you, But you may know some day; The comfort you have given, Along life's rocky way. | pray to God in heaven, That | may some day be, The help and guide to someone, That you have been to me. Zaccheus Linnie F. Robinson Unbelief was desert in him While rumors fought the dried abyss; Until at last one step forthcoming, He said, '"'I'll see how false he is."' Then crowds came stumbling up the road Men clamored much to see and talk; Within a tree he waited long Where Jesus' sandaled feet would walk. But Jesus stopped and called his name, "'Come down, | must abide with thee!" And Zaccheus ran to make a feast, Then waited for his guest to be. When Zaccheus looked into his eyes He knew above his heart's surmise — "Half of my goods | give away —"' So reads his love unto this day. BEAUTIFUL JOIN OUR QUALITY HANDY TOURS TO sok oee HOLY LAND March and October BOOK OF MORMON LANDS April—June—Nov.—Jan.—Feb.—March CHURCH HISTORIC PLACES and HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July New York World's Fair — Daily Departures via Bus-Air-Train HAWAII June and September EUROPE June Contact MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City 328-3161 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles _.39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.45 Over 1800 miles.87 600 to 1000 miles.54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. A 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 319 SO tbhidey Onipraliletion Two N inety-two Mrs. Elizabeth Jane Russell Day Mrs. Flo Gregory Behney unter, Uta Stockton, California Mrs. Anna Glackemyre Agee Mrs, Elizabeth Worthy namia, Minnesota Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, Canada Oneehicase d Mrs. Katie Taylor Dansie Mrs. Hanna Salt Lake City, Utah h Stubbs Jones Salt Lake City, Utah Miss Addie Walsh Bellville, Ontario, Canada Mrs. Mary C. Reeg Burlington, Wyoming Ninety-one N inet, "A: Mrs. Dozinda N. Burretesen Wilkerson Salt Lake City, Uta Mrs. Hattie Rushnel| Foster Mrs. Annie Smith Lamb Bellville, Ontario, Canada St. Hubert, Quebec, Canada Miss Alice q. Smith Mrs. Sarah Rosina Pomeroy Brewer Logan, Utah h Mrs. Ruth 5 Maxwell Foote Safford, Arizona Mrs. Catherine Heggie Griffith a Clarkston, Utah any Mrs. Lucy Maude Bliss Walsh ea = akersfield, California Mrs. Delta Weeks McKowen Mrs. Tina v. Dorp Va Orem, Utah nN der Ende Redondo Beach, California Mrs. Ella J. Seegmiller Ninety-three Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. Eva Elnora Jensen Jensen Mrs. Rosa Cc Wa Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Nellie Carter Osborne Mrs. Julia Straaberg Murray, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Florence Oyler Blackburn Mrs. Leah Dunford Widtsoe Loa, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Christine Olson Olson Mrs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois Bergland, Ontario, Canada Salt Lake City, Utah 320 Seek Ye Out o the Best Books TWO NEW VOLUMES - LATTER-DAY PROPHETS and the DOCTRINE & COVENANTS Volume II. Sections 42 to 76 by Roy W. Doxey An amazing and informative book that is a worthy successor to the very popular Volume I. Elder Doxey is an Associate Professor of Religion and Chairman of the Department of Undergraduate Studies in the College of Religious Instruction at Brigham Young University. Fascinating insight into Iter -day prophecy. Oe 79 JUST OFF THE PRESS! * - a F 1 ~ - ( i K k THE LORD SPEAKETH by Alvin R. Dyer This well-known Church author, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, traces the history of the gospel 1 in a volume that is without precedence in Church Literature. From Pe and Moses through Huss, Calvin, and Luther to the Prophet Joseph Smith, this volume blends all the pieces into one enlightening whole. I Deseret Book | COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA << Deseret Book, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City — Please send me the above numbered books 1—2— for which I enclose §. Money order, check. I have an account, please charge MM ee En es MESS eee EE MM ee eesZone -State 0 ee Residents of Utah include 312% sales tax. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Dr. John T. Harris held fast to a dream a dream that was about to be fulfilled. Eagerly on a Monday morning he went to check on the progress of his new clinic building. The boards and bricks put The I dress ' | and in place by the workmen were not merely boards and bricks— the they represented years of hard ubstance — work in a small community, serving the people of his town and surrounding towns with excellent dental care. Little did the doctor realize as he walked up the makeshift board ramp to the side door of the structure that he would never see the building completed. Noticing a pool of water on the floor, indicating a problem below, John Harris, age 35, crawled under to investigate. He came in contact with electric wiring which, then grounded against his body, snuffed out his life. Seven months prior to this tragic mishap, Dr. Harris had wisely added a $50,000 Beneficial Life Insurance policy to his estate. Mrs. Harris and their children were spared an unbearable financial burden which otherwise would have been added to their burden of grief at the loss of a young husband and father. Total premiums of $791 returned $50,000 to help reara family of youngsters who must now manage without a father. Here, again, the wisdom and the miracle of life insurance! From the Beneficial Life files BENEFICIAL LIFE Ss Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Over 590 million dollars of life insurance in force. 