[Vol27 | September 1940 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Priesthood]

(Brigham Young: The Man and His Work, Preston Nibley)
Visiting Teacher
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home
No. 3
Divisions of Priesthood?The Melchizedek Priesthood (Tuesday, December 3)
"An understanding of the power of the Priesthood and its proper use precludes all feeling of any possible jealousy by either men or women." (Priesthood and Church Government, p. 89)
"THERE are, in the Church, two priesthoods; namely, the Melchizedek and Aaronic.... Why the first is called the Melchizedek Priesthood is because Melchizedek was such a great high priest." (Doc. And Cov. 107:1-2)
"The Melchizedek Priesthood comprehends the Aaronic and is the grand head and holds the highest authority which pertains to the Priesthood." (Teachings of Joseph Smith, p. 167)
Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were ordained to this Priesthood by Peter, James and John, between May 15 and the end of June, 1829, near Harmony, Pennsylvania. The keys and power of the Melchizedek Priesthood were given to Peter, James and John by the Lord Jesus Christ, when he was upon the earth, and they were commissioned by him to restore them to the earth in the dispensation of the fullness of times. (See Gospel Doctrine, p. 242.)
In the Doctrine and Covenants we are told: "The Melchizedek Priesthood holds the right of presidency, and has power and authority over all the offices in the Church in all ages of the world, to administer in spiritual things." (Doc. And Cov. 107:8)
The offices in this priesthood are elder, seventy, and high priest. In order to understand fully the Priesthood and its offices and power requires study. President Joseph F. Smith said: "The word and the law of God are as important for women who would reach wise conclusions as they are for men; and women should study and consider the problems of this great latter-day work from the standpoint of God's revelations." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 364)
Home Discussion Helps
A woman shares all the blessings that come to her husband through his priesthood. The family relationships are formed for eternity by authority and power of the Melchizedek Priesthood.