[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | October | Issue: 6 | Title: IN MEMORIAM. | Author: Unknown]

IN MEMORIAM.
MERCY R. THOMPSON.
	SISTER MERCY R. THOMPSON who de-
parted this life September 15th, 1893 at the
great age of eighty six years and three
months was a veteran mother in Israel, and
a woman of particularly strong and heroic
character. She was also sympathetic and
benevolent in her nature, and possessed of
many gracious womanly qualities which
gave her a well-balanced mind and a tender
heart. She had a rather remarkable life,
passed through many scenes of trial and
made great sacrifices, yet was always firm
in the advocacy of correct principles, and
maintained the utmost integrity to the
Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints
which she embraced in the early days of
the Church.
	Sister Thompson had patiently shared in
the persecutions and drivings of the Saints
from place to place since the Church was
first established in Kirtland, Ohio, whither
she had journeyed from Canada, where she
had received the true Gospel. Sister
Mercy Rachel Fielding Thompson (the
deceased sister whose demise we now re-
cord) was born in Preston England on the
15th, of June. This young woman
emigrated to Canada with her younger
brother Joseph Fielding in 1832, where she
resided at Toronto when Elder Parley P.
Pratt came there on a mission in 1836 at
which time she and her brother were
baptized and the following Spring moved to
Kirtland, where her sister Mary who ac-
companied also had come over to Canada in
1834. In Kirtland soon after their arrival
Sister Mercy R. Fielding was married to
Elder Robert B. Thompson a man of
literary attainments, who subsequently be-
came private secretary to the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Her sister Mary was
afterwards married in Kirtland, to Elder
Hyrum Smith in December 1837.
	The Fieldings were of a good old
English family; the brother Rev. James
Fielding of Preston, England, was a 
religious reformer of some ministerial im
portance, and had sufficient influence to
establish and become the head of a Congre-
gational Methodist Church in which he
sought to revive the spiritual power of the
original Wesleyan movement. Sister Thomp-
son was of a distinctively religious type of'
character, and was ready to make almost
any sacrifice to assist the Church in works
of charity and benevolence, or enterprises
of a like nature; has always made liberal
donations to such purposes as building
Temples and emigrating the poor. It has
been stated that she had contributed more
means to the Salt Lake Temple than any
other sister in the Church; she was a mem-
ber of the first organization of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, Illinois, and has ever
since been associated in, and energetic in
the work and labors of this benevolent and
important institution; she held the position
of Treasurer in the Relief Society of the
Sixteenth Ward in this City where she
resided, and was faithful and efficient in the 
performance of the duties of her office to
the time of her death, (some twenty-one
years) though for a number of years she
had not been able to attend meetings. The
past eight years on account of the infirmities
of age, she had been obliged to remain
seated in an invalid chair, and be carried
from room to room and place to place when
circumstances required. Her patience and-
resignation in her sufferings, and to her
condition, and the will of God, were quite
remarkable, and her testimony to the truth
on all occasions was strong and persuasive;
her conversation was full of light and intel-
ligence, which made it ever a pleasure to 
be in her society.
	Sister Thompson had received all the
endowments and blessings in Nauvoo, under 
the direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and his co-laborers in the ministry,
that the Saints have been privileged to en-
joy, and lived to be present at the dedication
of the Salt Lake Temple which she had
strongly desired; and which she greatly
appreciated.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


She officiated in the Temple at Nauvoo,
during the fall of 1845 or winter of 1846.
	She came to Utah in Elder Parley P.
Pratt’s company, arriving in Salt Lake
Valley in September 1847—she was one of
the pioneers in the Church in all its move-
ments.
	Her husband, Robert Blaskel Thompson
died in Nauvoo on the 17th, of Aug. 1841.
	She made a visit to Canada starting Nov.
15th, 1871, to see her old friends and the
relatives of her husband and to gather
geneological records, returning to this city
March 16th, 1872, and the same year she
accompanied President George A. Smith
and his Palestine party, as far as England
where she remained, visiting her numerous
relatives and friends, gathering records and
bearing her testimony to them of the truths
of the gospel, and the divine mission of
Joseph Smith, until June 1873, when she
returned home.
	This beloved and respected sister and
veteran mother passed away at last in peace,
and her death was doubtless a triumphant
entrance behind the vail, where she would
meet her husband, and the Prophet arid
Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum, her Sister
Mary and her brothers who had gone before,
and an innumerable company of departed
Saints, with many of whom she had
labored in the Latter-day work in this
dispensation.
	Sister Thompson leaves one daughter
Sister Mary Jane Thompson, who is great-
ly bereaved through her mother’s loss, for
they were inseparable companions in life;
and a grandson the namesake of his noble
grandfather Robert B. Thompson, besides
hosts of relatives and friends who esteemed
her for her many virtues and as a venerable
mother in Israel. Her name will be held
in honorable remembrance by the Latter-
day Saints throughout all time, and may
our Heavenly Father comfort her daughter
and may she follow in the footsteps of her
illustrious mother and attain to the same
excellence and be worthy the same exalta-
tion.
	“Those who have battled for truth with their
	mind and might,
	With their garments clean and their armor
	bright.”


