[Vol33 | May 1946 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Comments Readers]
Comments from Magazine Readers With this belated renewal subscription, I must write a few words of appreciation for my Relief Society Magazines, and for the women of goodness, talent, intelligence and inspiration who lead and have led the women of the Church. The contents of the Magazine are so varied and far-reaching. It always offers intelligent and inspirational reading especially in times of illness or when one needs comfort, strength or courage. ?Glendale, Calif. I am a faithful reader of your Magazine and I do enjoy it immensely. You are doing a fine job and I personally want to thank you for such a fine magazine. ?Ogden, Utah I appreciate your Magazine very much. I think it is wonderful and hope to convert more people to my idea. Your 8 1/3 cents a month is a very small price to pay for such a fine women's magazine. ?Moscow, Idaho I have been a subscriber of your wonderful little Magazine for years, the best little book that comes into a home with four teen-age children who always read it before I ever get a chance.
Just wouldn't be without it. Payson, Utah I have always enjoyed reading the Magazine for it is very uplifting and a character builder for any individual. The sisters should make an effort to live up to the many teachings that are written in the book. Wailuku, Maui, T. H. For about thirty-five years I have been an appreciative silent reader. When I lived on a homestead many years ago, the Magazine was such a welcome visitor, as it still is.
Many otherwise long, lonely hours slipped by while I was absorbed in some cheery story or interesting lesson outline. I was really grateful for the diversion the Magazine afforded me. I do not want to miss any of the Magazines.
They are a great help and an inspiration to me both spiritually and temporally. I am proud to say I have sent in subscriptions for fourteen out of the sixteen families in my visiting district. ?West Los Angeles, Calif.
