[Vol33 | May 1946 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: To Louise Y. Robison Frontispiece Alice Morrey Bailey]
LOUISE Y. ROBISON degree. The great love she gave came back to her. One hears on every side, "Sister Robison will go down in history as the most beloved woman in the Church." She loved her family with a tender love. To hear her but speak their names was a joy, she put so much of pride and love into it. She loved her friends and how loyal she was _ to them. She loved children.
That any child should go through life handicapped for lack of medical or dental care or proper food, was to her intolerable. "Don't let a child suffer," she would plead. "If you haven't the money in your ward or stake, let me know and somehow I will find it." She loved people. At a party given by her Board Members on her birthday a year ago, Sister Nellie Parker paid her this beautiful tribute: One of the outstanding strengths of Sister Robison's leadership is her ability to put the arms of her love around even the most timid and inexperienced women and give them confidence in themselves and create within them a zealousness for the cause. She is able to draw out their best abilities and win their love and cooperation... She is enshrined in the hearts of those women who served her from Canada to Mexico, from Hawaii to Europe. She loved the gospel.
Deeply concerned as she was that no one should suffer for want of the material necessities of life, she also had that most precious of all gifts, the understanding heart, the ability to sense the spiritual needs of those who came to her discouraged, in sorrow,-in doubt, or with faith faltering. And, coupled with this rare gift of seeing, she had the gift of giving that which was needed. I 357 have seen women come to her office, crushed, despondent, and I have seen them leave with the light of hope and faith rekindled. How much this gift is needed today. If every woman in the Church could radiate spirituality as did Sister Robison, what a light we would be to the world. She loved her work in the Church. To her it was never a duty to be performed, but a glorious, joyous opportunity which she welcomed. Can you not hear her say, "Welcome the task that takes you beyond yourself?" In the early days of the Church when our Heavenly Father was "raising up a people who would serve him in righteousness" ? a people who would be faithful enough and strong enough to carry on his work in these last days, he told them the qualifications needed for such a people. How often he emphasized, "Serve with an eye single to the glory of God." No one who thinks of honor to self is wholly devoted to a cause. But when one loses self in devotion to a great cause, that is one of the forms of superlative greatness; in fact, there can be no true greatness without it. "He who loses his life shall find it."
This greatest of all tributes we pay to Sister Robison. She had the greatest of all gifts? love. She truly served with an eye single to the glory of God. To her family I wish to say, speaking for the women of the Church, that we love her. Her sweet influence will live on in our hearts forever. Our prayer is that we may so live, so carry on, that again some day she will be our leader.