[Vol33 | May 1946 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Pickering]

Alice Lamb  FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for ''Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ACTIVITIES AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS
Denver Stake Laramie Ward (Wyoming) ROM Denver Stake, under the presidency of Erma A. Rice, an interesting historical account of the Laramie Ward has been received through the president, Chloe B. Peterson: "Twenty-five years ago the Laramie Branch of the Relief Society was organized with Thurza Ellsworth Boyle as president, Mary Brown Bowman and Ida F. Lutz counselors, and Chloe B. Peterson, secretary-treasurer. Only a_ few L. D. S. Families were here DENVER STAKE, LARAMIE WARD (WYOMING) RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: Assistant Secretary Cornelia M. Quayle; Secretary Ila T. Davis; President Chloe B. Peterson; First Counselor Helena T. Hopkins; Second Counselor Mary Hunter. Page 345 346 permanently and we met in our homes. After sixteen years the Church built an institute and chapel. We now have a beautiful building to meet in, with the use of an entertainment room, library, and study halls. "Each year we have observed March 17th with an appropriate program and entertainment. This year (1945) a covered dish dinner was served in the evening to twenty-eight members and their husbands. Four large tables were set and decorated, one for each season of the year. Persons whose birthdays occurred in a certain season were seated at that particular table. Sister Marjean Hunter Wall took first place for her prize-winning winter decorations. Point-free hot dishes took the place of meat and four large birthday cakes were served. Janet Partridge sang two solos and a talk on the organization of the first Relief Society was given by Elizabeth Foster and a reading by Elizabeth Anderson. "During the summer we will meet twice a month, once for work and business and once for recreation, also for a pioneer day celebration and a park picnic. The mothers and daughters held their first banquet in this ward June 19, 1945. Over sixty were present. All members are good and willing workers and we have plenty of good times along with our work. Each year we hold a rummage sale. We made $130 on the last sale. Out in the mission our work has been hard at times, but now we are organized as a ward in the Denver Stake. Relief Society is indeed a help to all who attend. The Lord has blessed us here. May he bless all the organizations throughout the world."  Me ELIZABETH A. BENNETT Malad Stake, Malad Second Ward Malad Stake (Idaho) Malad Second Ward ' AMELIA W. SPENCER, teacher trainer, Malad Second Ward, reports an unusual record in the visiting teachers' program: "Recently when our Malad Second Ward Relief Society was reorganized, the new presidency and the bishopric met together with all the visiting teachers, and every teacher was given a blessing and set apart for her work. "As our bishop, W. W. Thomas, interviewed each teacher, it was found that many of them have marvelous service records. One, especially, has a record of fifty-eight years of continuous service in the Relief Society.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD "Sister Elizabeth A. Bennett was born in England in 1864. She was baptized into the Church in 1881, and arrived in Salt Lake City in 1883 with her young baby. Her husband, John A. Bennett, had come to the Valley two months earlier. When she was twenty years old, Elizabeth Bennett joined her first Relief Society and, in June 1888, she was set apart as a teacher in the Relief So- 347 city at Albion, Idaho, and has served in various ways in the Relief Society ever since, which gives her a record of fifty-eight years of service. She is now eighty-one years young and visits her district every month. I cautioned her to be careful and not overdo her strength, and she said: 'Does it ever injure anyone to do her duty in the Church?' This is typical of her spirit." GUNNISON STAKE (UTAH), CENTERFIELD WARD WOOL CARDING ACTIVITY Front row, left to right: Amanda Fielsted, Christena Jensen; Mary Rosenberg, second counselor; Hannah Anderson, Mary Christensen. Standing, left to right: Alvira Hansen, first counselor; Verl Goates, president; Mearl Christensen, Jean Jensen, Naomia Jensen. Gunnison Stake (Utah) RLENE L. HENRIE, president Gunnison Stake Relief Society, reports a revival of pioneer thrift in the activities of her stake: "The sisters are keeping an old art alive and this has proved very helpful during these many months of shortages. They not only carded all the wool for their welfare assignments, but have helped many families with their bedding problems. They have made many articles of clothing from used material in an effort to stretch the clothing budget." 
 ?MAY 1946 GUNNISON STAKE (UTAH), HAMILTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS EXHIBITING CLOTHING Front row, left to right: Othella Sorenson, president; Deon Peterson, Henrietta Frandsen, Emily Knighton.. Back row, standing, left to right: Erma Pickett, second counselor; Lena Madsen, Stena Hendrickson, Lavern Pickett, Bertha Olsen, Sister King, a visitor, Maudie Clements, Minnie Taylor, Ruth Westlund. YELLOWSTONE STAKE, KILGORE BRANCH (IDAHO) MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS Photograph taken at the home of Sister Hedwig Hirschi. Sixty-four mothers and daughters were present.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD worn by Sister Dorothea Barnsen, Standing, extreme left, was worm at President Lincoln's inaugural ball. 350
Oahu Stake (Hawaii) Waikiki Ward FROM Oahu Stake, under the presidency of Sister Mary A. Tyau, a ward Relief Society anniversary celebration is reported by Sister Inez T. Waldron, former Waikiki Ward Relief Society president: "On July 4, 1945, it was ten years since the organization of the Waikiki Ward Relief Society by President Heber J.
Grant and First Counselor J. Reuben Clark, which Photograph by EF. L. Waldron  event took place with the organization of the Oahu Stake, June 30, 1935. To celebrate the occasion, the sisters met in their lovely quarters in the Oahu Stake Tabernacle for a social and dinner.
Each of the sisters wore a fresh Hawaiian flower lei made from some of Hawaii's many fragrant flowers.
After dinner, special sewing projects for the armed services were continued, an activity to which this organization has contributed much since the outbreak of war in the Pacific." OAHU STAKE (HAWAII), WAIKIKI WARD RELIEF SOCIETY CELEBRATES ITS TENTH ANNIVERSARY Seated, left to night: Mary Dowse, Minerva Tarlton, Inez Waldron; Hattie Woolley, former president; Alice Reirson, first counselor; and Virginia Neiman. Standing, left to might: Mabel Lunt, Zola McGhie, Sister Hennig, President Geneva Musser, Mary Ann Boisse, Hannah Kindberg, Adelaide Fernandez, Rhea Woolley, Irene Brain, Irene Cannon, Elma Moody, Fern Clissol, Miriam Knapp, and Thora Chapman. Franklin Stake (Idaho) LICE S. MERRILL, former president Franklin Stake Relief Society, reports an unusually effective program held in connection with the stake priesthood meeting: "Inasmuch as the March stake priesthood meeting came on the