[Vol33 | May 1946 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Are We Protecting Our Jacobs]

Then all unbidden, quite to my surprise, A smile quick-twinkled in my brimming eyes. Are We Protecting Our Children? Leone O. Jacobs Member of the Relief Society General Board N a recent article by Angelo Patri, he says, "The latest report on the death of young children is something to make us all quiver. The health of our babies is wonderful and we have a fine crop of them. But the record of fatal accidents to young children is shocking. Why do we allow these needless fatalities to the little ones? The accidents happen at home for the greater part.
Imagine that!" It takes a lot of doing on the part of adults, and especially on the part of mothers, to safeguard children against hazards in the home. I am sure none of us realized just how many little things there were to watch and guard against until we had the responsibility of homes of our own. The difference between knowledge and wisdom is an important point in relation to safety. We know that knowledge denotes acquaintance with facts, but wisdom "consists not in knowing many things, nor even in knowing them thoroughly, but in following what contributes most to our lasting happiness." And so we may know what the dangers in the home are, but unless we use wisdom in applying the knowledge we have, unless we do something about those dangers, our knowledge is of no avail. We must be constantly on the alert to: Page 302
Keep stairways clear. 2
Avoid carrying hot liquids. Never leave a pan of hot water on the floor. Keep water in automatic water heaters below scalding temperature. 4
Tack stair carpets securely. 5
Secure small rugs at corners. 6
Keep medicines locked up. Medicines should be clearly labeled and never taken in the dark. 7
Turn handles of pots, heating on the stove, away from the reach of children. When taking off lids, raise them in toward the stove instead of out, so the hot steam will not burn anyone. 8
Teach children never to tum switches on the gas stove. If gas has escaped, air the room thoroughly before relighting the burners. Disconnect all electrical equipment and cords immediately after using. Small children may be instantly killed or severely shocked by putting an attached cord into their mouths. 10
Cupboards should not be so high that climbing is necessary, nor so full that bottles or cans may fall out and break, or hit someone. 11
Toys should not be left lying on the floor even such small items as marbles on the floor can cause serious falls.
These are some of the hazards to guard against, ARE WE PROTECTING OUR CHILDREN? AR too many fatalities among children are the result of their being left alone or in the care of an immature person.
Children are at the mercy of those who care for them. It is criminal to leave them when they cannot take care of themselves in an emergency.
Some parents put the children to bed and go out for the evening. "Oh," they say, "nothing will happen. We've done it many, many times and the house hasn't bumed down, no one has turned on the gas or swallowed a pin." Yes, but it does happen to some children not yours, of course! It may never happen to your children, 303 but just the same, it might! It takes only one fire or one pin to cause disaster. A mother may be bathing her ten-months-old baby when the telephone rings. She thinks, Oh, I'll just be a minute. She'll be all right. She loves to play in the water. It is a friend on the phone who is planning a party and wishes suggestions for refreshments. The talk goes on and on. Who knows what baby is doing in the meantime? Children, and even small babies, are locked in the car while mother goes shopping. Can anyone be sure of the consequences? A 'mother cannot afford to take 304 her responsibility to her children lightly. The time she gives to the well-being of her children is the finest contribution she can make to humanity. A small boy runs into the street after his ball, directly in the path of an approaching car. A little girl is playing quietly in the driveway and suddenly a truck backs out and crushes her tiny body. Who is to blame?
Much can be accomplished by training children at home. "But," you say, "when a child's ball rolls out into the street, or when he is being chased by a playmate, he never thinks to look, no matter how much he has been taught!"
Children differ in this respect, of course, but I have seen children who do stop and look before dashing into the street, even while at play.
Then there are those who are careless, and tell only on good fortune to save them. The difference lies mainly in the training of the individual child and the example set by his elders.
Very few children receive enough education in safety at home. Yes, they have been warned and threatened, but the training and super
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY 1946 vision must be consistent over a long period of time to be effective.
Example is an important part of teaching.
What adults do, children imitate. Any adult who disregards a safety rule, may be contributing to the peril of some child. The schools have done a splendid job of training our children to observe traffic rules, and our observations prove that the children obey traffic regulations far better than adults.
Very seldom do we see a child cross on a stop light or jaywalk.
There are numerous perils in the life of a child, diseases such as poliomyelitis, rheumatic fever, etc., that, as yet, we are unable to prevent, but surely we should eliminate the perils which come through careless neglect.
Motherhood is the most important responsibility in all the world and yields the greatest dividends. Our children are the hope of our nation.
They are the promise of tomorrow.
Give them the chance they deserve! Let our watchword be: "Eternal vigilance is the price of safety."

Then said Sister Robison: "I wonder if there is anyone here who does not need the human touch. I wonder if there is a woman in the Church who, through the Relief Society, has not the opportunity of watching the one hour with those who are bearing heavy burdens. Sisters, you have been given that privilege, you can comfort and _ bless souls." E know she will enter on her new work "over there" with her head high, with eyes sparkling, with the enthusiastic zeal which characterized her work here, and with the same sweet humility which kept her always close to her Father in heaven. "Faith, hope and love, but the greatest of these is love." Sister Robison has great faith, a simple, absolute faith. She knows that God lives. She knows the gospel is true. I quote her again: "T believe firmly that the Gospel of Jesus Christ, a testimony that God lives, is the anchor that holds us and makes us feel secure."
That was the message she always wished the Board Members to take to the stakes. "But God has spoken," she would say. "Let us make the women feel that God has spoken and that it behooves all to listen when Jehovah speaks."
Great faith she had and hope and confidence. Love, the greatest of all gifts, she had in a superlative LOUISE Y. ROBISON degree. The great love she gave came back to her. One hears on every side, "Sister Robison will go down in history as the most beloved woman in the Church." She loved her family with a tender love. To hear her but speak their names was a joy, she put so much of pride and love into it. She loved her friends and how loyal she was _ to them. She loved children.
That any child should go through life handicapped for lack of medical or dental care or proper food, was to her intolerable. "Don't let a child suffer," she would plead. "If you haven't the money in your ward or stake, let me know and somehow I will find it." She loved people. At a party given by her Board Members on her birthday a year ago, Sister Nellie Parker paid her this beautiful tribute: One of the outstanding strengths of Sister Robison's leadership is her ability to put the arms of her love around even the most timid and inexperienced women and give them confidence in themselves and create within them a zealousness for the cause. She is able to draw out their best abilities and win their love and cooperation... She is enshrined in the hearts of those women who served her from Canada to Mexico, from Hawaii to Europe. She loved the gospel.
Deeply concerned as she was that no one should suffer for want of the material necessities of life, she also had that most precious of all gifts, the understanding heart, the ability to sense the spiritual needs of those who came to her discouraged, in sorrow,-in doubt, or with faith faltering. And, coupled with this rare gift of seeing, she had the gift of giving that which was needed. I 357 have seen women come to her office, crushed, despondent, and I have seen them leave with the light of hope and faith rekindled. How much this gift is needed today. If every woman in the Church could radiate spirituality as did Sister Robison, what a light we would be to the world. She loved her work in the Church. To her it was never a duty to be performed, but a glorious, joyous opportunity which she welcomed. Can you not hear her say, "Welcome the task that takes you beyond yourself?" In the early days of the Church when our Heavenly Father was "raising up a people who would serve him in righteousness" ? a people who would be faithful enough and strong enough to carry on his work in these last days, he told them the qualifications needed for such a people. How often he emphasized, "Serve with an eye single to the glory of God." No one who thinks of honor to self is wholly devoted to a cause. But when one loses self in devotion to a great cause, that is one of the forms of superlative greatness; in fact, there can be no true greatness without it. "He who loses his life shall find it."
This greatest of all tributes we pay to Sister Robison. She had the greatest of all gifts? love. She truly served with an eye single to the glory of God. To her family I wish to say, speaking for the women of the Church, that we love her. Her sweet influence will live on in our hearts forever. Our prayer is that we may so live, so carry on, that again some day she will be our leader.
