[Vol33 | May 1946 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: In Pingree]
300 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY  1946 
A  Perry  Picture 
ELIZABETH  BARRETT  BROWNING 
(1806-1861) 
• 
painting  of  Mary,  the  Virgin,  for 
which  she  had  posed. 
Within  Christina  there  was  a 
"'keen,  white  sharpness,  protecting, 
hke  a  coat  of  armor,  something  she 
held  above  the  treasures  of  the 
world."  One  would  not  expect  this 
when  her  outward  appearance  was 
soft  and  womanly. 
Her  poetry  reflected  her  life. 
Sometimes,  painting  her  sheets  of 
paper,  knitting,  or  going  about  her 
duties,  she  looked  on  the  world  with 
shining  eyes: 
My  heart  is  like  a  singing  bird 
Whose  nest  is  in  a  watered  shoot; 
My  heart  is  like  an  apple  tree 
Whose  boughs  are  bent  with 
thickset  fruit; 
My  heart  is  gladder  than  all  these 
Because  my  love  is  come  to  me.  .  . . 
*'Song"    and    "Remember,"  and 
many  others  of  her  exquisite  poems 
should  be  read  and  reread. 
As  she  grew  older  she  seemed  to 
become  a  younger  sister  of  her 
mother.  After  the  last  link  that  still 
held  her  to  the  world  had  snapped, 
she  lived  on  in  the  hope  of  life  ever- 
lasting, where  all  she  held  dear 
awaited  her. 
«  *  «  * 
T^O  mention  Elizabeth  Barrett 
Browning  in  review,  brings  to 
us  the  remembrance  of  a  poet  loved 
and  well-known.  Elizabeth  Barrett 
Browning  (1806-1861)  led  a  life 
exceptional  in  various  ways.  Posses- 
sed of  a  sturdy  soul  in  a  frail  body— 
''her  mind  was  disciplined  by  an  un- 
usual education  and  her  character 
by  prolonged  illness."  Her  father 
built  for  the  family  a  mansion  of 
oriental  splendor,  and  there  he 
placed  every  one  of  his  children  "in 
a  gilded  cell  and  locked  the  door." 
Elizabeth  often  longed  "to  slip 
downstairs  through  all  the  sleepy 
house  and  escape."  There  were  but 
two  secrets  that  she  kept  from  her 
father,  forbidden  books  and  her 
dear  friendship  for  Robert  Brown- 
ing. It  was  on  May  20,  1845,  that 
Robert  Browning  was  at  last  per- 
mitted to  come  to  Wimpole  Street. 
When  Elizabeth  took  matters  into 
her  own  hands  and  set  sail  for  Italy  as 
Mrs.  Robert  Browning,  her  father 
said,  "My  daughter  is  now  in  her 
grave.  Let  us  forget  the  dead." 
Her  poetry  increased  in  depth  and 
beauty  from  the  happiness  of  her 
marriage,  yet  the  love  sonnets  writ- 
ten to  Robert  Browning  during  their 
courtship  days  are  exquisite  in 
thought  and  structure.  When  her 
husband  saw  these  poems,  he  pre- 
vailed upon  her  to  have  them  pub-

WOMEN  POETS  IN  REVIEW  301 
lished  as  "Sonnets  from  the  Portu-  Again,  how  sad  she  must  have 
guese/'  felt  when  she  trembhngly  read  a 
What  favorites  these  sonnets  are!  letter  and  found  a  package  from  her 
father,  addressed  to  Robert  Brown- 
I  love  thee  with  the  breath,  ^      . 
Smiles,  tears,  of  all  my  life — and,  ^* 
if  God  choose,  . 
I  shall  but  love  thee  better  after  death.  1"  the  accompanying  package  you  will 
^  ^  ^  ^  find  the  letters  sent  to  me  by  your  wife. 
All  these  letters,  you  will  note,  have  re- 
But  love  me  for  love  s  sake,  that  mained  unopened.    The  seals  upon  them 
evermore  are  still  intact. 
Thou  mayest  love  on  through  love  s 
eternity.  t-.i.     i      i  ,      r    ^          i.    i      -,       ^ 
Elizabeth  s    father    died    shortly 
Just  three  days  after  Elizabeth's  after  the  return  of  the  letters.  The 
forty-third  birthday,  a  son  was  born  news  of  his   death   brought  on  a 
to  them.    And  from  her  newborn  collapse  from  which  Elizabeth  never 
babe  she  felt  a  newborn  strength,  fully   recovered.    She   has   left    us 
That  was  the  peak  of  her  happiness!  poetry  full  of  living  fire. 
I  HEARD  A  ROBIN  SINGING 
Zara  Sabin 
I  heard  a  robin  singing  in  the  rain  one  day. 
When  things  for  me  had  long  gone  wrong; 
At  first,  I  would  not  listen  to  his  song. 
But  clutched  close  to  my  heart  its  poignant  pain; 
For  what,  I  thought,  have  I  to  do  with  cheer 
Or  spring  or  song  or  lilting  loveliness. 
What  is  there  now  for  me  but  bitterness 
Since  I  have  lost  the  one  I  hold  most  dear? 
So  gladly  rang  his  gleesome  roundelay 
It  seemed  I  had  to  hear  him,  and  I  turned 
To  where  he  sang  so  blithely  unconcerned 
With  storm  or  cloud  or  wild,  wind-driven  spray. 
Then  all  unbidden,  quite  to  my  surprise, 
A  smile  quick-twinkled  in  my  brimming  eyes.

Are  We  Protecting  Our  Children? 
Leone  O.  Jacobs 
Member  of  the  Relief  Society  General  Board 
IN  
a  recent  article  by  Angdo 
Patri,  he  says,  "The  latest  report 
on  the  death  of  young  children  is 
something  to  make  us  all  quiver. 
The  health  of  our  babies  is  wonder- 
ful and  we  have  a  fine  crop  of  them. 
But  the  record  of  fatal  accidents  to 
young  children  is  shocking.  Why  do 
we  allow  these  needless  fatalities  to 
the  little  ones?  The  accidents  hap- 
pen at  home  for  the  greater  part. 
Imagine  that!" 
It  takes  a  lot  of  doing  on  the  part
