The Relief Society Magazine - September 1967, Vol. 54, No. 9

SEPTEMBER 1967 VOL. 54, NO. 9

Remembering Christie Lund Coles Each of us bears his rememberings Of the valley's slope or mountain's cleft; Each carries the memory in himself Which leaves him sustained or bereft. You may recall the geese returning, I, how they left. I, how the autumn curved above The lake in frail and transient tulle, The way the muted music sang In lowering streams that once were full, Aware of the misted air above me, Gray now... And cool. I will recall the swallow's leaving, How fragrant summer turned to pass Over the meadow, dark and fallow, Over the seared and withered grass, Newly aware of the leaves' soft grieving Like tinkling glass. Soon I shall recall spring and summer, too, But the remembering mind must do what it must do.

The Cover: Autumn Day, Mount Timpanogos, Utah Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Evening Near Meeker, Colorado Photograph by Willard Luce

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

Since we are so far from the center of the Church, our thoughts are often turned to our former homes, friends, and sisters in the Church, as we see the covers and read the pages of the Magazine. Sometimes we recognize a familiar name, or face, or place, or experience. More than this, however, is the truth of the gospel which the Magazine brings through its stories, poems, talks, essays, and thoughts. Thanks for the love you send each month through the Magazine.

Kathleen J. Damron Apia, Upolu Western Samoa

We are grateful for The Relief Society Magazines. They are becoming more beautiful each year. The covers are lovely, and the group pictures give us many splendid ideas. But most of all we love the hobby pages showing the dear sisters and their many talents, such as painting, quilt making, and all kinds of handicraft work. I would like to encourage the elderly sisters to putter around in their gardens. I would not have lived to be almost eighty years old had it not been for my outdoor activities.

Sarah E. Peterson Sebastopol, California

I have been a reader of The Relief Society Magazine through many years, and now I shall soon be eighty years of age. Of the many poems I have read and enjoyed in our great Magazine, none has hit my heart like Lael W. Hill's "Inviolate" (April frontispiece 1967). There is in the poem something that is beautifully new and yet is endless. Only the elements, the "wind, or rain and stone" can tell the soul that something. Her knowing insight combines in a sort of oneness both truth and beauty.

Estella Cluff Freestone Los Angeles, California

642

I offer my thanks for the marvelous Relief Society Magazine. What a privilege and honor it is to belong to the world-wide sisterhood. It brings tears to my eyes to think that wherever my daughter or I may go there is a hand waiting to welcome us with the loving sweetness that Relief Society sisters develop.

Doreen S. Walsh Brecknell, Berkshire, England

The beautiful color pictures and the lovely flowers, the green trees and lush vegetation, and the temple in New Zealand set my heart to racing with expectancy for spring ("New Zealand A Silhouette in Green," by Wealtha S. Mendenhall, March 1967). I very much enjoyed the story "To Warm the Heart" and the serial "The Golden Chain," both by the same lady (Hazel M. Thomson).

Lillie Hendricks Big Springs, Texas

Today the sun is shining and the spring signs are beginning to show, yet my heart and mind were drawn inward when I arose this day. I had two sorrows for which I had been searching for a way to express myself to these two beloved relatives. Then my Relief Society Magazine came, and as is my habit, I sat down to look through it and turned directly to page 289 (April) and the article "Into Every Life Some Rain Must Fall" (by Amy Giles Bond), then I went on to page 280 and found "Inner Struggles" (by Arlene Larsen Bascom). Here were the answers to my need for expression. I am borrowing these two articles from my friends so that I may send them to my dear sweet mother who is ill, and also to my dear niece who lost her young husband in Viet Nam last week. I thank you for a Magazine that has so much to offer the sisters in the gospel.

Barbara P. Rushton Taylorsville, Utah

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$2.95 (postage paid anywhere in world) The third volume of the series is themed to "intelligent family living." Selection from masterworks of prose and poetry have been carefully chosen to delight and inform the reader. Text for the Relief Society Cultural Refinement Course 67/68. Note: Orders filled in sequence received — get your order in NOW! SOCIAL RELATIONS TEACHING AIDS PACKET $1.25 (postage paid) These full color pictures and other materials, including a chart, will prove extremely useful in preparing a dramatic and thoughtful presentation of the 1967/ 68 Relief Society Social Relations lessons. Oe DESERET BOOK COMPANY —_ = —— D eseret Book 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OE oe or, 777 South Main, Orange, California 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 92669 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN Send me... Copies of OUT OF THE 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA "—S BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3. Send me...... SOCIAL RELATIONS TEACHINGS AIDS PACKETS. Enclosed is a check/money order for the full amount of purchase, including 34% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake City, or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. Or, charge my established account......... Total $.............. NAME... Ce ene tenn ee en ene ence ete e tebe te ateenenepenenneunateenens AGUTOSS. Cn eee need ne nn eee ete cece e eps bbc ec tnt Gbttntntnnees GUY cc cece cee teeter eeteteeenaneSF) (ccZip........... SEND FOR DETAILS OF A DESERET BOOK CHARGE ACCOUNT [] (check here) Sept. R. S. 67 ' Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Put the magic of Sugarplum Land in your meals suggests this recipe from Sugarplum Land to add an exciting flair to your summer entertaining. : Pade fh gti eg — e «® i The, Ua eSlief Society ~ ee Magazitig: eS