WOMAN'S VOTE.

	Why women should have a voice in public
affairs! Women are taxed equal to men, they
are held responsible to the law the same, their
reasoning, perceptive and governing powers are
as effective as those of their brother man; a
widow can stand at the head of her household,
guide, control and create means to sustain her
family with better economy and keep them to-
gether better than a widower, for he is more help-
less with the entire care of a family without the
woman, than she is without the man.
	She is endowed with more fortitude, persever-
ance, temperance and sufferance. These qualifi-
cations in woman are nature's best gifts,fitting her
for man's equal in all the transactions and vicissi-
tudes of life. When side by side with him, her
perceptive intuition makes her for man, a wise
counselor who acts in concert with him, devising
plans, adopting means and ways, for his future
benefit.
	That never failing fountain of love for him and
their offspring growing out of those attributes re-
fined, made pliable and subtile; she is self-reliant
on her own ability and power of action. She
overcomes obstacles thrown in her way and sur-
mounts them all; this makes her capable to ac-
quiesce, conform, explain, predict and conjoin in
fellowship with her own sex, and the stronger
and less subdued element in man.
	It makes her befitting to fill the highest station
in life, and capable to decide questions that in-
volve her happiness and welfare. Without her
vote so many blanks remain. Questions of vital
interest are undecided and the best side of things
lies dormant as the one half of God's creations
are debared from taking part in the great drama
on her public stage. The one element that should
be retained is excluded. The coarser, boisterous
intemperate and overbearing "Might makes
right," rules.
	Fellow citizens how long shall this state of
things be? and woman be inactive to the great
benefit of mankind and their integral interests?
Detract from her, you do indeed detract from
him, as fate hath blended both in one.
	Genesis 1st ch. 26th vrs: "And God said let
us make man in our image, after our likeness."
And as earthly things are in the likeness of
heavenly things, we know our Heavenly Father is
a person, and knowing this we can worship Him
in spirit and in truth. All womankind should
have respect for her fellow man, for as she looks
upon him she sees the image of her Heavenly
Father reflective. Man has not lost his original
form as much as woman, he is not as much
governed by fashion in dress as she is, in that
which depresses the natural form. This is why
we read in Isaiah 3rd ch. that the daughters of
Zion wil be scourged. "Male and female created
He them." And as our poetess Eliza R. Snow
renders it,

"In the heavens are parents single.
	No the thought makes reason stare;
Truth is reason, truth eternal,
	Tells me I've a mother there."

	Then woman is made in the image of her
Heavenly Mother.
	28th vrs: "And God blessed them, and said
unto them, be fruitful, and multiply and replenish
the earth and subdue it; and have dominion over
the fish of the sea, and over the fowls of the air,

[Column 2]

and over every living thing that moveth upon the
earth."
	29th vrs: "And God said I have given you
(not him), speaking to the  man and woman, all
things bearing seed upon all the face of the
earth."
	But Adam and Eve sinned and Adam was to
rule, Christ atoned for the sins of the world, and
that places woman on an equal with man, as at
the beginning. "To have dominion over every
living thing that moveth upon the earth," in con-
nection with her husband, or her fellow man.
		MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, June 8, 1891.


