EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference report of
Emery Stake held in Huntington, April 17,
1891: President Annie U. Larsen presiding.
Singing "Spirit of God come down," prayer by
Brother P. Johnson, singing, "Come, O thou
King of Kings." President Annie Larsen
then made a few opening remarks, advising
the secretaries to be prompt in sending the re-
ports of their wards, also spoke of her visit
through the settlements in the stake, the good
feeling prevailing. Reports of those present
were listened to with marked interest. Sister
Olsen, president of the Castle Dale Ward, felt
well in her labors with the sisters, ever ready
and willing to do her duty. Mrs. L. C. Avery
of Huntington, Mrs. Eunice Petty of Emery,
and Mrs. Alger of Cleveland each reported
their wards, all seemed to be doing well, and a
spirit of union and love in their midst. Stake
Counselor Ann Pulsifer had attened Salt Lake
conference, and gave some very interesting re-
marks of the good things she had heard spoken
of, and the powerful testimony of President
Woodruff. Counselor Mary E. Cox bore her
testimony to the Latter-day work. Brother
J. D. Chase spoke very encouragingly to the
sisters. Mrs. McNervin gave in the Lawrence
Ward report, which was good. Meeting ad-
journed until half past one, in the afternoon,
singing, benediction by Bishop Pulsifer.

[Column 2]

	Afternoon meeting: President Annie Larsen
presiding, singing, "With all my joys of heart
and tongue," prayer by D. Washburn, singing
"My God the spring of all my joys." Mrs.
Sarah Fulmer reported the Orangeville ward.
Bishop Oversen addressed the conference a
short time. Several sisters bore their testi-
mony to the Latter-day work, many good
things were said, and all felt the good spirit
that prevailed in our midst. Bishop Pulsifer
exhorted to continual faithfulness, and other
brethren who were present spoke. President
Annie Larsen then made a few closing remarks
and released Ann E. Seeley and Kathinka An-
derson from the positions as stake secretary
with a vote of thanks. The officers of the
stake were unanimously sustained as follows:
Annie U. Larsen president, Johanah E. Childs
as first counselor, Ann Pulsifer as second coun-
selor, M. J. Shipp secretary. Choir sang, "Lift
up your head,ye scattered Saints." Benediction
by Bishop Pulsifer.
