UNIVERSITY OF DESERET.

	The Annual Circular of the University of
Deseret for 1891—92 shows that the institu-
tion is at present in a prosperous condition.
The building is now more complete and com-
modious than at any other time in the past,
and the separate large and handsome structure
on the same grounds for the instruction of deaf
mutes, gives much larger opportunity to that
class of students, to whom special attention is
being paid, not only in studies, common and
higher branches, but in industrial pursuits
likewise,suitable for both boys and girls.
	The Territorial Fair of 1890 awarded a
diploma to the department of display of wood-
work by the boys, and a silver medal for the
sewing and fancy work done by the girls.
	The University itself was established early
in the history of this Territory, Feb. 1850, less
than three years after the arrival of the
pioneers. The first meeting of the Board of
Regents was on the 13th of March, 1850—pre-
sided over by Chancellor Orson Spencer.
	The names of the Faculty, Instructors, and
Officers represent men of ability, superior edu-
cation, attainments and influence and are a
guarantee for the excellence of the institution
in all its departments. Dr. John R. Park, the
President, has been connected with the Uni-
versity for a great number of years, and under
his management it has progressed wonderfully,
especially considering the financial struggles it
has gone through.
	There is not we believe a better school of its
kind West of the Rocky Mountains. From
the Normal department it has sent out its
teachers year after year to all parts of the
Territory. The very best teachers of languages
are always employed, as also in music,the law,
military science, and tactics, etc.
	The Museum is a valuable acquisition and
is well supplied for practical school purposes
and studies in the sciences. The Library and
Reading-room is another important feature of


the school. There are nearly ten thousand
volumes of standard and miscellaneous books,
and the reading room has regularly more than
seventy newspapers and periodicals. In look-
ing over the Annual there seems to be nothing
lacking; there is an art gallery, chemical
laboratory, in short everything desirable, and
a credit as a seat of learning that any State
might be proud to own.


