BY LILLIE DEVEREUX BLAKE.

	[Delivered at Woman's National Council,
Washington, D. C.]
	It is more than twenty years since my atten-
tion was first attracted to this subject. In 1870
I was appointed one of a committee of three
to go and see the Superintendent of Police, of
New York, and try to get women appointed as
police matrons. We were received very politely
by him, but he insisted that there was no need
of such an innovation. We asked him if he

[Column 2]

had never known of an instance where it would
have been better to have had a woman in
charge of the station-house? At last he did
remember of an occasion when a young woman
was brought into the station-house by a police
captain. She could not speak, and the case
was entered in the blotter as "drunk and dis-
orderly." She was consigned to a cell and in
the morning was found dead with a dead babe
beside her.
	In 1881 a bill providing for the appointment
of police matrons was introduced into the New
York Legistlature. It passed in the house by
a unanimous vote, and in the senate by a large
majority; but the Governor withheld his sig-
nature. The Governor was elected by the men
of the State, and he didn't wish to offend his
constitutents. The Police Department from
the first opposed with all of their power the
effort to secure police matrons.
	In 1888 a bill, prepared by the Women's
Prison Association of New York, was passed
through both houses of legislature and received
the Governer's signature. It ran thus: "When
ever the Board of Appointment shall appropri-
ate money for the payment of salaries of police
matrons, these matrons shall be appointed."
	Under this bill police matrons have been
appointed in Buffalo, Rochester and other
towns in New York. But from that day to
this the Board of Appointment of New York
City has not appropriated the money.
	Two years ago, when the law was first past
I went down to see the Mayor and Comptroller
to urge this question upon them. They corres-
ponded with the Police Department, and in a
few days I received the following letter written
to them by the Police Department, and in a
few days I received the following letter written
to them by the Police Department: "The
Board of Police has made no request for an
appropriation of salaries of police matrons, be-
cause, in the opinion of this Department the
appointement of such matrons is neither wise
nor expedient."
	Last fall a  bill was introduced by Geoge F.
Roesch, a Tammany Democrat, which proves
that some good thing can come from a
Tammany Democrat, and it will probably re-
ceive the votes of the Democrats. As the
other bills, have received the support of Re-
publicans, we have great reason to hope that
this will be passed by both branches of the
Legislature. We are just on the threshhold
of success, and here let me say that we do not
mean to find any fault with the policemen;
there are many noble and true hearts beating
under their blue coats. We know that they
are as kind as men can be in cases of distress,
but it is only seemly that women who are in
our station-houses night after night should have
the protection of women there, in the saddest
condition that women can reach—that of be-
ing homeless.
	In these station-houses are three classes, the
homeless, the criminals, and the innocent
alleged to be criminal, and all are in the hands
of men. However kind a man may be, you
know it is not fitting. The policeman embodies
force, and side by side with him should stand
a woman embodying mercy.
	[Since the delivery of the above address the
bill providing for the appointment of police
matrons has been passed by the New York
Legislature and received the signature of
Governor Hill.]


[Column 1]

