WASATCH STAKE.
	The Relief Society of Wasatch Stake held
its Semi Annual Conference in the Stake
House at Heber,May 28, 1891, at 10:30 o'clock
a. m. Present on the stand, President Hatch
and Counselor T. H. Giles, Bishop Henry
Clegg, and the Stake Presidency of the Relief
Society and representatives of the different
wards,also Sisters E. Howard and Lillie Freeze
of Salt Lake City. Pres. Emma Brown pre-
siding, singing by the choir, led by Brother
Roger Horrocks, "The morning breaks," prayer
by Bishop Henry Clegg, singing, "God spake
the word." The roll was called,22 officers be-
ing present; minutes of last Conference read
and accepted.
	Pres. Brown exhorted the sisters to be dili-
gent in attending conferences and also their
ward meetings.
	Heber West Ward was reported by Sister
C. Foreman, who said she realized blessing in
attending meeting and knew others would do
so if they would come.
	Sister Margaret Muir reported Heber East
Ward, said they had a good many enrolled,
some had a desire to come while others had
not, felt thankful for a testimony of this great
work.
	Sister Lillie Freeze said she felt a little
strange when she first came in, but, considered
as we are eventually to be united in one
great family it was good to become acquainted
with one another; things transpired sometimes
which caused us to feel cold towards our neigh-
bors; such feelings should not be entertained;
persons having feelings against their brethren
or sisters should not partake of the sacrament
before they had made things right. Spoke
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and some re-
marks he made when he organized this Society.
Exhorted the mothers to send their children to
the Primaries and Sunday Schools where
they could be taught the things of God.
	After singing "High on the mountain top,"
and prayer by Sister Mary Daybell,conference
adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session resumed at 2 o'clock with
the usual excercises of singing and prayer.
The Midway Ward was reported by Sister
Mary Guerney who stated that it was in a fair
condition. Sister Mary E. Cluff reported
Center Ward, said they were few in number,
but were earnest in doing good.
	Sister Mary Dabling in reporting Wallsburg
said some do not come once a year to meeting,
while others come often and those that came
brought a good spirit with them and they had
good meetings.
	Sister Mellisa Murdock reported Charleston,
relating a little of her experience when the
society was organized there. Woodland Ward
not reported.
	Sister E. Howard said it was the duty of
every virtuous woman in the wards to be mem-
bers of the Society, spoke of the signs of the
times, and the eventful year of 1891; spoke of


the many tests that would be brought to bear
against us as a people, and unless we had an
undying testimony within our hearts we would
not be able to stand the trials that would come
upon us. Asked how many of us were pre-
paring to become  queens and priestesses in the
Kingdom of our God. Showed the necessity
of mothers doing all they could for their
childrens' welfare spiritually as well as tem-
portally; in speaking of the Sacrament, said
how can we partake of it with feelings in our
hearts against our brethren and sisters,
thought if we did so we would eat and
drink condemnation to our souls. 
	Sister L. Freeze gave some good counsel and
exhorted all to diligence in the performance of
duties, and said the officers should be sus-
tained and their labors appreciated by those
for whom they labored. Advised counsel
meetings of the officers, quarterly or monthly,
thought such would be beneficial.
	President Hatch said it seemed to him that
the sisters were as good talkers as the men
and thought we had had a very enjoyable
time
	Sister Hannah Harbour was then set apart
as Stake Secretary by Counselor T. H. Giles
and President Hatch.
	Pres. Brown felt that we had all enjoyed
ourselves in meeting together and exhorted the
sisters to use their influence in getting others
to attend conferences and other meetings of
the Society. A vote of thanks was tendered
to Sisters Howard and Freeze and conference
then adjourned till the last Thursday in Sep-
tember to meet at Midway. Singing "Praise
to the man, etc." Benediction by Bishop N
C. Murdock.
