FRIEND.

	[An Address given by Julia A. Farnsworth
at the Commencement Exercises of the B. Y.
Academy, Provo City, May 22nd, 1891.]
	Yes, she is all this and far more, when she
occupies her true position, and fulfils her
destiny as God designed her to. Friends and
Fellow students: She is the capable guardian
of her sons and daughters, the safest, ablest
adviser and companion of her husband, the
competent instructor of her children, the liberal
giver of charities, and the sympathetie friend
of the sorrowing. She is the architect of house-
hold comfort, and the preserver of all that pro-
motes domestic sanctity and love, combined
with ever lasting confidence and success in the
home circle.
	The husband or father can build, or plan
the erection of cottage or mansion, but he can
never make its interior what it should be with-
out the co-operation of Wife, Mother or Friend.
God made man and woman equal; He
endowed them both similarly, yet there is a
great diversity in their organizations; one is
incomplete without the other. No home, nation
or community is what it should be, unless the
united influence and intelligence of both are
there. Man's and woman's strength, wisdom,
refinement and purity are requisite to the
vitality and advancement of society through
every walk in life. In educational circles,
woman is necessary; in religion she is constant;
in art and science gaining eminence; in poetry
and music she is capable; in ancient and
modern history she is conversant; in fact, there
is no place in civilization in which she is not
an able support, and wise assistant, when al-
lowed equal advantages with her brother.
	She gives tone to music in church; life and
beauty in the ball room; modesty and order on
the rail road or steamboat; reverential culture
on religious topics, modulation and heartfelt
thoughts when temperate or moral subjects
are introduced; patience and charity for the
faults of boys, or transgressions of way-ward
sons.
	Mothers never forget to pray, and teach
their children the power of the same. From
homes properly regulated, where order and
affectionate discipline are found, where father
and mother are one in principle, in faith, and
in integrity; here will our nation find her

[Column 2]

grandest statesmen, purest patriots, and
worthiest representatives of honesty, virtue
and truth. Nurtured by mothers, who regard
goodness of character and purity of soul as
intrinsic in value, as superior to all else com-
bined, here will our noblest heroes and most
honorable manhood find congenial soil.
Colleges and seminaries give finish, but home
culture, mothers and sisters influence—make,
mould, and firmly implant that which time or
distance can never efface. 'Tis here that life
and vigor is given to every good act and
thought, where, in childhood, every wrong or
improper tendency is firmly yet unhesitantingly
eradicated.
	A mother who is a good, wise and intelli-
gent woman may rest assured of an inheritance
in heaven and an acknowledgement of her
labors having been accepted in the great
Beyond, though in this life she may carry her
cross in seclusion, unaided by all except He
who watches over, and sees our every act.
	Young Ladies: We to-day hold a great deal
of power (although we are not allowed to vote
even if we were old enough). We are the
ones who shall make or mar the conduct, the
dsportment, the condition to be, in this organi-
zation, called the students of the B. Y. A.
One will exclaim! "But they are not all
ladies." I know this, but in school as at home
in religious, social and civil society, girls hold
or have an equal position with their brothers
in maintaining order and discipline. With
them to a greater degree, the character the
status of good breeding, intellectual culture
and refined dignity is held, the moral purity
and high standard of society depends more
largely on us, than our stronger brothers.
Young men who are true at heart, honest in
purpose, will seldom, if ever frequent places of
bad repute such as gambling or drinking halls,
if young ladies with whom they associate and
respect, discountenance, and in plain terms
disapprove these things, and by their decided
actions, show they will not tolerate and will
positively discard them as friends in the future
unless these practices are at once abandoned
forever. Therefore, girls let us prove ourselves
worthy of the trust and esteem of each other;
and of the high and noble calling our Eternal
Father intends us for. Our mission in life is
very important, and our advantages, legal
social and religious many.
	I will now close, but will tell my associates,
boys and girls, I love you dearly, and hope we
are friends that may always continue true.
God bless and protect our Professors and
Teachers. Fellow students, as we are on the
eve of a separation; some of us go to homes
at a distance, I trust we may all in future
prove worthy of the good instructions and
noble examples laid down for our benefit,
during the passed, short, pleasant school year.
May we be preserved and again reunited in-
the circle of a students association, when the
time shall have past for our vacation
Heaven help us to ever do and act aright,
thereby gain the good wishes and kind re
gards of all just people, is my sincere prayer


