EDITOR EXPONENT:
	While on a visit some time ago among some
friends, the conversation turned on the rearing


[Column 1]﻿

of children. We believe that children ought
to be taught to honor and obey their parents
in all things; that is right, but never try to
make them fear those whom they should love,
honor and obey; we think love will come
spontaneous if there is any in them. We
think its the duty of a mother in Israel to look
after the spiritual as well as the temporal de-
velopment of her children and to impress upon
their youthful minds the importance and
virtue of Gospel truths as well as their other
duties. We think the most satisfactory way
of training them is, as soon as they can under-
stand, to teach them the laws of God and
nature, and the punishment for breaking those
laws; to be tempered with wisdom and love
and not by passion or cruelty; it is a much better
way to wait till passion is over before correct-
ing a child: we shall this way gain more rev-
erence and respect from them; parents must
know, or ought to, that they in their sphere
of action with the knowledge they have, are no
more perfect than their children are in theirs.
Parents need to be blest with a great deal of
patience and forbearance; mine were quite
strict but kind; we were not all our parents
desired we should be through our hoydenish
ways; we lived in a rural district and as soon
as spring came around, we must be off to the
woods to gather wild-woodland flowers, daffi-
dills, blue bells and other wild flowers, this of
itself vexed them, the writer thinks now that
there was a great deal of the Puritan stock in
them.
	Oh! those were Elysian days to the writer,
never to be forgotten; we should like to see
more of the qualities,kindness and forbearance
exhibited among some that call themselves
Latter-day Saints, towards their children, we
have seen children that were raised with
tyrannical parents, they have left home and
broke away from all parental restraint to pur-
sue a course of independent wickedness.
	What kind of homes are those where there
are no smiles of welcome, or encouragement,
homes of this kind may be habitations but
never home as homes should be. For one to
believe there is no place like home is a whole-
some partiality, but to laugh and scorn another
person's home is wrong and unbecoming, be-
cause it is not as one's own; no one need dis-
pair of having a good home of their own,
while there are so many rich blessings all
around us and if not, there are other blessings
that the humblest may find, yea the plainest
dwelling may become a paradise when adorned
with the treasures of peace and contentment in
them; these treasures are better than granduer
or gold a thousand fold,the writer knows this
is so.
	There was another matter spoken upon and
that was most of mothers or those that act in
the place of mothers, on mock or false delicacy
towards their daughters; we know a mother's
conduct ought to be exemplary at all times
before her children, but we think it best for
her to gain the confidence of daughters as they
grow up to womanhood, so that they will
come to her with their troubles, trials and
the pleasures of their youthful lives, if mothers
are so sensitive that they cannot teach their
daughters the laws of nature concerning them-
selves they ought not by any means to be left
to learn those things from their companions;
they may be led astray, as we have known
some to be, who have sought information this
way concerning themselves, that their own
mothers ought to have imparted unto them.
Those mothers that feel so very sensitive about
giving their daughters proper information con-
cerning the laws of nature ought to buy good
and proper books, that treat on those laws and
place them where their daughters will be sure
to find them, my word for it, it will come out
right, I have tried it. Mothers or those that
stand in the place of them, ought not if pos-

[Column 2]

sible to prevent it, to allow their daughters to
go into homes of their own without a pretty
good domestic education as well as a collegiate
one if they can obtain one; and not forgetting
at the same time to teach them the simple
laws of health, so that they may be prepared
in some degree to meet with sickness and those 
natural consequences which are part of every
woman's mission, and which inevitably comes
to every household; and above all let us teach
our sons and daughters to be virtuous and
chaste in their lives, some think girls ought to
have those properties more firmly established
than boys, I think differently, if our boys have
those qualities well cultivated there will not
be many girls lacking in virtue or chastity; and
let young men speak of all young women as
they would like to hear them speak of their
sisters; and the result would be a better state
of society, if mothers are too sensitive to teach
them the laws of chastity their fathers can, and
if not they can read themselves the sermons
of President Cannon and other Church
authorities that have been given from time to
time, they are very plain and forcible none
need go astray for lack of teaching, all may
maintain purity of character that will seek
help from their Father in heaven. Much
more might be said on this subject. Your
sister in the Gospel.
			ISABELLA P. PRICE.
	Mill Creek, June 3, 1891.


