WOMEN?

	There are many subjects of special interest to
be considered consequent upon the events that
are transpiring with this people; other phases of
the social, religious and political conditions are
presenting themselves and much new thought is
awakened thereby; things are undergoing a
change in the community, and it behooves each
one to be prepared for whatever is coming, and
to be able to judge for himself, or herself upon all
matters of vital importance.
	Particularly in the breaking up of the peoples'
party and dividing on party lines, should the
greatest wisdom be exercised, and a realizing
sense of the importance of such a step be taken
into careful consideration.
	One may say it will make very little difference
to women in this Territory as they have no vote;
but even though they have not, women are and
should be deeply and understandingly interested
in these matters, and in all others that concern the
welfare of humanity. The woman who has no
interest in this question now being widely agitated
and no thoughts upon the subject, is not alive to
her opportunities of doing good, or of helping
herself or others. It is a grand opening for the
discussion of these pertinent questions that per-
tain to woman's claims and her grievances.
	Two political parties are being formed from
the Peoples' Party, which of these two will in-
troduce into their platform a plank, or a resolu-
tion favoring woman suffrage? "What would be
the use, some say,considering Congress took the
suffrage away from the women of this Territory?"
There is no boundary set for men in their gallantry
towards those whom they are pleased to term the
weaker sex, and as a matter of courtesy to women
who have once held the elective franchise and
exercised it so judiciously that even those opposed
to it on general principles,could not find any fault
with the use they made of it,and after being robbed
of it for political purposes, the writer cannot pos-
sibly see, why these fellow citizens who are advo-
cating the rights of men and brothers should not
consider the rights of women, their sisters, and be
generous enough to accord in word at least some
political recognition, even if there is not any im
mediate prospect of its being made a reality. It
would show the good will of the particular party,
and women have some influence even without
votes, but we are free to confess, a great deal
more with votes.
	At a Convention, or Festival held in Boston,
Mass., recently Mrs. Lucy Stone or Mrs. Howe
in summoning up the political party under dis-
cussion, and by the bye we believe it was the
Republican party, made this assertion, if in the
event of its becoming the ruling or dominant
party it did not accord equal political rights to

[Column 2]

women, who had given it such support and
strength, it deserved to die an ignominous
death.
	Even in conservative England there have been
more privileges accorded to women than in the
United States, where so much is said and written
of freedom, and liberty, and equal rights. Miss
Balgarnie the delegate from various societies in
the kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland said,in
her speech at the National Council of Women
held in Washington last Winter, that,
	"We the women of Great Britain now possess
all the votes which men possess, except the Par-
liamentary vote. We have the right to vote at
seven elections, which deal with the school
boards, municipal government, local government
poor law government,—in fact we have a right to
declare what men shall spend the rates and taxes
which we have to contribute. Moreover we may
be elected to serve upon the school boards and a
large number of women serve in that capacity.
What is more the men urge us to do it. It is not
so many years ago that a representative of the
Men's Liberal Association (what is called the
Men's Liberal Four Hundred) did me the honor
to wait upon me and ask me to run with the men
as a candidate for the school board. I am glad
to say, that generally, men are welcoming the wo-
men in this respect. In the few places where
they do not, women possess sufficient voting
power to retain their own women candidates,
irrespective of the men."
	"We have lately obtained the vote for the
county councils, which are analagous to your
state and territorial governments."
	This is hopeful for England under a woman,
Queen Victoria. And what about America "the
land of the free and the home of the brave," of
which we sing and boast so much? Wyoming
leads the van, there equal rights for men and
women prevail? Utah ought to have had the
same privileges; the legislature passed the bill
allowing women to vote in the winter of 1870 and
the Governor signed it on the 7th of February.
Women voted for Hon. Daniel H. Wells for
Mayor on the 14th of February, 1870.
	Yet we find wherever suffrage for woman is
spoken of in public gatherings there are only a
very few who dare speak for Utah upon this
question. Now that a new political era has come
in the history of the Territory what is to be the
outlook for the recognition of women as citizens?
They pay their taxes as well as men and we have
never heard that women were ignorant in regard
to paying taxes; that is one of the privileges they
are permitted. They know how to earn money;
there are thousands of women in this Territory
engaged in various industries and professions, and
are actually self-supporting. We believe that the
majority of the Peoples' Party men, are in favor
of woman suffrage, and we have noticed that a
resolution in the Democratic platform says "We
are unalterably opposed to the disfranchisement
of any citizen except for crime, whereof he shall
have been duly convicted." That is very good
indeed, but it should be broad enough to apply to
women citizens as well as men. There is no
doubt a great future for Utah and in that day wo-
man will assuredly have equal political rights
with her brother man. And now is the time to
prepare for that event.


[Column 1]

