UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Conference of the Relief
Society of the Stake, held May 29th, 1891, in
the meeting house, Provo City. Pres. Mary
John presiding, Counselors Emily G. Cluff
and Marilla Daniels also on the stand. Con-
ference opened by singing, "Once more we
come before our God." Prayer by Counselor
Marilla Daniels. Singing, "Arise O glorious
Zion." Minutes of former Conference read
and accepted.
	Pres. John was grateful to see so many at
conference as it proves their faithfulness. I feel
the sisters are doing a good work, wished the
younger sisters would meet with us even if
they bring their children. The old will not
always be able to meet with us, and the re-
sponsibilities will rest with the young. Spoke
of the Hospital fund,it is our duty to help that
institution. Would like to hear from the
presidents of the different branches of the
Society throughout the country. After hear-
ing their reports, which were very satisfactory
and encouraging, conference adjourned till 2
p. m. Benediction by Sister Wilkins.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m. On
the stand in addition to the presiding officers
of the Society, were Sisters S. M. Kimball and
Emily S. Richards of Salt Lake City.
	Conference opened with the usual exercises.
A few more reports were given in by the presi-
dents, after which Sister S. M. Kimball spoke
to the sisters for a short time, explained the
organization and position of the Relief Society;
was thankful for these organizations, when we
benefit others we benefit ourselves, our useful-
ness increases and we realize that we are
brothers and sisters, one grand brotherhood,
etc., we cannot gain knowledge and intelligence
without effort. Spoke on various subjects of
interest to the sisters.
	Sister Goodman spoke on the silk question;
did not like to see the interest dying out,
thought it would eventually be a source of pro-
fit to us, etc.
	Coun. Marilla Daniels felt to endorse what
Sister Goodman had said about silk; but it
would need unity of purpose to make it a
success. Let us try and interest young women
in coming to these meetings that they may
learn the workings of the society and see how
they are conducted, etc.
	Sister E. S. Richards felt pleased to be with
us, had always tried to meet with the Relief
Society, had enjoyed meeting with Sister Eliza
and Sister Zina in years gone by, this is the
place to get strength, I think that our women
are as bright and smart as any in the world,
we are called and set apart to fulfill various
duties in these organizations, I do not believe
the men have as many organizations as the

[Column 3]

Sisters, the world cannot understand us.
spoke of the W. C. T. U., associations, "the
Lord is working with those outside as well as
ourselves. Women are stealing a little time
from household cares for self-improvement,
we must spend some time in self-culture and
creep out from the toil that surrounds us, let
us devote our spare time to educating ourselves
instead of making lace and other fancy work
etc.
	Pres. John thought we were well paid for
coming to meeting,felt thankful to our visitors,
asked our Heavenly Father to bless us with
his Holy Spirit. Conference was adjourned
for three months. Singing, "The spirit of God
like a fire is burning." Benediction by S. M.
Kimball.
