IN MEXICO.

	After leaving colony Diez we travel over a
beautiful country for about 60 miles until we come
to Casas Grande, here we find a nice, rich, fertile
valley, watered by the Casas Grande river which
is followed on both sides with a heavy growth of
timber, such as cotton wood, black walnut, willow
and other kinds; the soil is rich and productive
and by planting wheat in the fall it can be
harvested in time to raise a crop of corn on the
same land; sweet potatoes do well, as also pea
nuts; there are melons in abundance, grapes ripen
in July and it is a splendid country for raising
corn. There are many hundred acres of good
land in this vicinity that can be bought at rea-
sonable figures with good title and water rights
secured.
	Casas Grande is an old Mexican town, a part of
it in ruins from old age or caused by earth-quakes
which have been recent here. We have lived
neighbors to the Mexicans about a year, and
have thus far not much reason to complain,
finding them to be a much better people than they
were represented, we had often heard of their
having some traits of dishonesty about them, and
we think this is true to a certain extent, but do
not feel justified in saying it of them all, for we
have found some very respectable ladies and
gentlemen here. And we do not find them a
boisterous noisy community; although they are
not very industrious, they seem to have a desire
to learn, and there is an opening for the establish-
ment of industries here.
	It is our intention to begin a school soon, for
the purpose of teaching English, also to teach
knitting, spinning, etc., as soon as the necessary
books can be obtained. The natives are beginning
to admire our ways of living, and many express a
desire to learn of our religion, and are interested
in reading our books, take a peculiar intesest in
reading the Book of Mormon and seem to realize
that we are in possession of a doctrine superior
to theirs; for many of them can not help seeing
the deception of the Catholic priests. * * * But
it seems that as yet the time has not come to
preach the Gospel to them, but we believe when
it does come there will be many of the honest in
heart who will receive it.
	Our children are learning the Spanish language,
we have a little girl, two years old, who interests
the natives very much speaking their language
it being more simple and easier pronounced than
the English, she seems to prefer to speak it.
There are several families of Mexicans living in
Colony Juarez who belong to the Church, and are
very good, sincere Latter-day Saints, and seem to
enjoy life very much and are gathering around
them the comforts of life, and from outside ap-
pearances none could distinguish their homes
from others of the Saints. Juarez is a nice little
place situated between the hills. We never see it
until we come to the dug way which descends to
the valley below, making a beautiful sight to look
down on the nice little place, with its streets run-
ning at right angles, and the sidewalks lined with
shade trees, patches of lucerne, gardens and


orchards surround the quiet homes of the
Saints in this peaceful little place. A neat little
store owned by the community where can be
found a nice stock of goods for this country, and
quite cheap, adds to the convenience of the peo-
ple. There is a good adobe building for school
and meeting purposes which is always tolerably
well filled. The Saints seem to enjoy themselves
and feel that hard times are almost over in Mexico
and that a bright future awaits us here; and we
believe that we have been led here by the hand
of Providence to perform a great work which re-
mains to be done in the future.
