			CHICAGO, May 19, 1891.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
		My Dear Madam:—
	Inclosed you will find your commission from
the Isabella Association, instructions in the
order to be followed, and a map of your con-
gressional District.
					Very truly,
			Frances Dickenson, Secretary.
DUTIES OF A VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE QUEEN
ISABELLA ASSOCIATION WITHIN THE
UNITED STATES.
	1. To ascertain the number of polling dis-
tricts within her Congressional District and
forward the same to national headquarters.
	NOTE: Every County Clerk keeps a record
of the number of polling districts within his
County and the boundaries of each. In differ-
ent localities, polling districts within his
County and the boundaries of each. In differ-
ent localities, polling districts are known as
townships, wards, parishes and precincts. In
some of the large cities the boundaries of the
polling districts are to be found in the office
of the Election Commissioner, printed in
pamphlet form or outlined on maps. These
political divisions are chosen to avoid over-
lapping of efforts. We believe this to be the
most systematic and economical method of
national organization for women in the interest
of any undertaking.
	2. To select four women within her district
who, with herself as Chairman, shall form the
Congressional Directory.
	3. To forward the names and addresses of
these officers with membership fees to national
headquarters that each may receive her com-
mission.
	4. To send a statement monthly to the
national headquarters of the progress of the
work in her district.
	NOTE: Membership certificates in books of
ten will be sent to the Vice-President on the
receipt of eight dollars; thus allowing twenty
per cent of the membership fees for the ex-
penses of the Congressional work.
	5. To countersign the commissions issued to
each Congressional Director, Enrollment Secre-
tary and members of the enrollment com-
mittee showing the official position of each.

[Column 2]

	6. To represent her Congressional District
during the sessions of the Isabella Congress.
	NOTE: The Congress Hall will be furnished
with a desk for each Congressional District and
foreign country represented in the membership
of the Association. The best thought within
each district is desired on every social and in-
dustrial problem on the program. For this
reason proxies will be allowed when in the
judgment of the Vice-President any question
can be better discussed by some other member
of her district.
DUTIES OF THE CONGRESSIONAL DIRECTORY.
	1. To select one woman in each polling dis-
trict to act as the Enrollment Secretary of the
Association.
	2. To send name and address of each En-
rollment Secretary with membership fee to
headquarters that she may receive her commis-
sion.
	3. To keep a record book with at least one
page devoted to each polling district and head-
ed with a map of said district showing its
boundary; the name and address of Enroll-
ment Secretary and the other members of the
enrollment committee and any other informa-
tion that may be needed from time to time.
DUTIES OF ENROLLMENT SECRETARY.
	1. To select four women within her polling
district who, with herself as Chairman, shall
form the Enrollment Committee of her dis-
strict.
	2. To forward the names and addresses of
these women with membership fees of the Vice-
President of the Association in her Con-
gressional District that each may receive her
commission,
	3. To report progress at least once a month
to the Vice-President.
DUTIES OF EACH ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE.
	1. To ascertain the names and addresses of
all women now members of the Association
within their district; to obtain more members
and to keep in a book this record of member-
ship within their polling district.
	2. To oganize one or more Queen Isabella
Circles to awaken an interest in the Columbian
Exposition of 1893; and especially to further
the objects of the Queen Isabella Association
in any way that may seem best and is en-
dorsed by the Vice-President.
	NOTE: In view of the growing intimacy of
our country with Mexico and South America,
the study of Spanish American history and
literature will prove beneficial and profitable.
The Lecture Bureau of the Association will
recommend when desired, lectures on World's
Fair topics.
	3. To establish an Enrollment headquarters
where the literature of the Association can be
found and where the written ballot of the
members can be deposited on any question, and
after the Fair on the disposal of the assets of
the Assocaition; the name, election of officers
and other questions concerning the coutinu-
ance of the Association.


