EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Pres. Jane S. Richards attended the Relief
Society Conference of Box Elder Stake held at
Brigham City, June 9th,of which we hope to have
a synopsis of minutes and proceedings to publish
next issue.
	Presidents Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba W.
Smith, Counselors to Pres. Zina D. H. Young of
the Relief Society went to Grantsville to attend

[Column 2]

the Relief Society and Sisters Conferences of that
Stake, leaving this City Saturday morning, June
13, and are expect home to-day. We shall prob-
ably have a report of the Conferences in our next
issue. 
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Friday June 19th. Meetings com-
mencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. as usual. It is
desirable that there should be representatives
from each branch in the Stake, that suitable in-
struction and encouragement may be given and
that all may work together in harmony and be
mutually helpful to each other through the inter-
change of ideas and a correct understanding of
the general status and labors of the Society in
the interest of all concerned in its welfare. All
those interested in this benevolent Society are
invited to attend this Conference.
	The Primary Fair will open in the Social Hall
in this City on Wednesday, the 17th inst., under
the immediate direction of President Ellen C.
Clawson and her Counselors, Camilla Cobb and
Lydia Ann Wells. The people should patronize
this Fair and show their appreciation of the efforts
of the children in making articles and in doing
such work as is suited to their years. As a people
we expect great things of the children and they
in turn certainly should receive encouragement
from parents and friends; otherwise they are
likely to become discouraged. Great efforts are
being made by those who have charge of the
Primary Associations in the various districts
and Stakes of Zion, and it is right and proper that
they should receive a recognitton of their labors,
by the people,especially those whose children are
under their care and instruction. We hope to 
see the Fair well patronized.
	A new book called "The Educator, CAUSE
and CURE of all DISEASES," has been handed into
this office recently by one of its authors, Mrs.
Conger, who is herself a regular physician and
who has in connection with her husband, also a
Dr., prepared this original work for the benefit of
the public. We have been looking over the book
during the past few days and find many excellent
hints and suggestions as well as plain every day
facts, and methods of handling patients and their
ailments with a view of making permanent cures.
There are many important truths told in an agree-
able and intelligent manner that will make a
deeper impression than if handled only scientifi-
cally, or in that crude hard way more common
among writers on these ponderous subjects. The
book is certainly very attractive, and every
family would do well to have a copy of it at hand
in the home-library. After reading it more care-
fully and thoroughly we may be able to say more
and give a better idea of its merits.
	Wednesday, May 27, there was a very pleasant
social gathering at the little new brick cottage of
Helen Mar Whitney on the corner of C. and 6th
Sts. in the 18th Ward of the City. There were
present the members of her immediate family, and
her brother Solomon Kimball and wife, also the
Bishop, Orson F. Whitney, (her eldest son) and
his Counselors, Robert Patrick and Wm. Barton
and their wives and Elder McDonald and wife,
and the writer. A sumptuous dinner had been
prepared by Sister Whitney's daughters and after
the repast was over, and the guests and family
had reassembled in the parlor, Bishop Whitney
dedicated the house in an eloquent and appropri-
ate prayer that echoed the sentiments of his
mother and we believe of all those who were
present as well as touching their hearts with its
earnestness. It is a beautiful idea to dedicate the
homes of the Saints to the Lord as dwelling
places of peace and contentment where His Holy
Spirit may be poured out in rich abundance, and
for the preservation of health and life, and where


angels may visit from time to time and hold
sweet communion. It is our earnest and heart-
felt prayer that Sister Whitney may live to enjoy
this comfortable home in the possession of health
and every blessing it is possible for her to receive
and partake of for her benefit.
	On Tuesday, June the 9th, a very happy party
 met by invitation at the residence of Bishop H.
B. Clawson and wife, for a double purpose,
to dedicate the new and handsome residence re-
cently erected on South Temple just East of
State Street and to celebrate the marriage of their
daughter Winnifred, to George Ellerbeck son of
Thomas and Emma Spence Ellerbeck of this
City. The house was very beautifully illuminated
for the occasion, and promptly at 6 p. m., after
the arrival of President Wilford Woodruff and
Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon, and Hon. John T. Caine,
and some other special friends the Dedicatory
prayer was offered by Pres. Geo. Q Cannon, and
following that, the marriage ceremony was per-
formed by Bishop O. F. Whitney. The bride in
all the blushing loveliness of youth and innocence
beautiful in simple white and orange blossoms,
the bridegroom with proud and manly bearing
looking quite happy and satisfied, stood under a
canopy of the most exquisite flowers, while the
solemn service was pronounced which bound
them together as husband and wife. The wed-
ding reception proper then commenced, and
guests began to flow in until the house was
crowded. Refreshments were served and con-
gratulations and expressions of good feeling fol-
lowed by kisses etc., were continuous, for a time.
The presents were so numerous and elaborate
that it is not possible to mention them all, they
consisted of elegant furniture and furnishings,
silver, cutlery, china, Royal Worcester and other
varieties, cut-glass and so on. A diamond necklace
from the bridegroom, lamps, clocks, books and
many other things. The writer only wishes to
express for these new voyagers on the sea of
matrimony a pleasant and happy sail over all the
shoals and quicksands and a safe entrance into
the harbor of security, when life's voyage is over.
	Thursday evening, June 11th, we had the
pleasure and satisfaction of participating in a
pleasant reunion of friends and relatives at the
home of Mrs. Rachel Emma Simmons of this city
widow of the once popular actor in the bye-
gone days of the Salt Lake stage, Joseph F.
Simmons. There were about thirty people present,
besides a great number of beautiful grand-child-
ren. The dinner was a feast of good things, the
hostess having the happy faculty of preparing ap
petizing luxuries; the tables were handsomely
ornamented with lovely flowers, June roses of
every shade and hue, peonies and the fragrant
honey-suckle, but the most striking feature of all
was the handsome and goodly countenances of
the sons and daughters of the hostess and their
life companions. At the head of the table was
the eldest son, J. F. Simmons, now Counselor to
Bishop Romney of the 20th Ward, and at the
other end of the table, Fred Simmons, a most
examplary and strikingly handsome young man.
The daughters however are not lacking in per-
sonal interest and attractions and Sister Simmons
has every reason to be proud of her family. The
blessing was pronounced by Bishop O. F.
Whitney and here let it be said the Whitneys
were well represented in this gathering. During
the evening a letter was read from one of the sons
Arthur Simmons who is absent in Mexico, and
besides general and spirited conversation, there
was music and singing by members of the family.
Bishop O. F. Whitney sang "My own, my native
land," with guitar accompaniment, and James T.
Dunbar and his wife Louisa, the daughter of
Henrietta Simmons, sang a duet "Only Thee,"
which was highly appreciated. Mr. Dunbar also
sang afterward. There was instrumental music also

[Column 2]

by members of the family and some waltzing, etc.
but the greatest enjoyment was the meeting to-
gether of old friends and the sweet communion
and association of "Auld lang syne." Peace be
to the household and may the friendship of long
ago,still continue and be a part and portion of the
life to come.


