									A FULLER,

	Sister Anne Christine Jensen, of the Manti South Ward,
died May 12th, 1891, at the age of fifty years, after a
lingering sickness of eight months. She was born in
Roberg, Hjorring Co., Denmark, March 29, 1841. She
was the oldest girl of her parents, and after the death o
her mother took a mother’s duty upon her shoulders to rear
her younger brothers and sisters. In the year 1861 she
visited the Baptist Society, but before joining any of them,
however, happened to hear an Elder of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, believed his teachings and was
baptized in the Winter of 1862 by Elder A. C. Neilson.
Sister Jensen emigrated in '63, married a man by the name
of Lindelow, whom she sustained with hard labor for eleven
years, being broken in spirit and nearly worn out bodily,
from whom she separated, according to the counsel of the
Priesthood of Plain City, where she then resided. Then
moved to Salt Lake City,and worked in the Blythe's Order
seven years, when it broke up, and left her destitute again.
But never tiring, began again, rented a room, and com-
menced carpet weaving, and by dililgent labor and
economy earned enough in a few years to buy a home in


Manti, which cost her about $500. Since 1881 she paid to 
the Temple $40 in cash, to tithing $165 besides donations
and fast offerings all of which she earned with her own
hands; performed the work for her dead relative and friends
who were to the number of 111 in the Manti Temple; Sister
Jensen refused every assistance during her ill health, and
worked most of the time, even when sick. She was
a marvelous example of industry, economy, firmness of
character, and faithfulness to all duties as a Latter-day
Saint; a faithful teacher in the R. S. of her Ward and a
worthy member of the Church.
	She died as she lived, a true and faithful Latter-day
Saint, looking forth to a glorious resurrection, which she so
well deserves.
	Resolved, that in the death of Sister Jensen, our Society
has lost a faithful teacher and member of our Ward, a
sister and a friend, and that our loss is her gain, in which
we feel to acknowledge the hand of our Heavenly Father.
