[Vol1 | February 1914 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Home for Women and Girls]

RELIEF SOCIETY HOME FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS.
The Relief Society Home for Women and Girls was opened formally December 19, 1913, with brief and modest dedicatory services.
The Home is situated opposite the North Gate of the Temple grounds,
36 West North Temple St.
It represents the culmination of a long cherished hope and plan.
Every woman in the Relief Society will rejoice at this new feature of our work.
For there are many reasons why we should have such a place in this city.
Women, without relatives or friends, come to this city to do work in the Temple, or to visit the conferences of the Church.
They have no place to go, and they shrink from seeking lodging in the many public hotels, which offer all kinds of accommodations but security, friendship and association with our people.
The hotels are good in their time and place, but not what is needed by such visiting women.
Girls, who insist on coming to this city to get big wages, are too often allowed to drift about with no secure quarters where they may lodge until they can secure work, nor a place to go to while one place is exchanged for another or more desirable one.
All these needs have been KELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 17 felt and realized for a long time by members of the General Board.
In the olden days the saints in this city entertained the saints from the country and everybody knew everybody else, and there was no question of lodging houses or hotels.
But times have changed; and some of our visitors now feel obliged to seek temporary lodgings in the various hotels and rooming houses.
Our sisters do not want nor expect to have this accommodation without paying sufficient to keep up the expenses of the place, for they are possessed of the proper pride and dignity of character which makes them self-supporting under all circumstances.
The sisters of this Society have contributed of their mites to build meeting houses, carpet temples, purchase silver for sacrament purposes; have sent money to the missionaries, nursed the sick, educated the nurses, clothed the dead and nurtured the orphan.
But the day has come when they are going to be placed in positions where they can do some wise and kind things for themselves.
This Home is such an enterprise. "When we were discussing the Home before President E.
B.
Wells one day she remarked that the Prophet Joseph Smith had given the Belief Society in Nauvoo a home for just  such a purpose as this.
And the question at once arose is there anything that this wonderful man did not inaugurate and give the initial impetus for?
What a Prophet he was and is.
We bow to his kindly intelligence and reverence his god-like memory.
The plan for establishing such a refuge was laid before the General Board of the Relief Society two years ago, and a Committee was appointed to look into such a project.
Mrs.
Rebecca Neibaur Nibley was appointed as Chairman of this Committee, with Sisters Elizabeth C.
McCune and Elizabeth C.
Crismon as the other members.
Later on, because of the temporary absence of Mrs.
McCune, Mrs.
Janette A.
Hyde was added to the Committee.
These sisters have worked indefatigably to bring about the successful conclusion now manifested.
When the Presidency of the Church and the Presiding Bishop were approached, they gave the project their heartiest support.
Several houses were offered to the Committee to choose from and after careful consideration the one named was chosen.
It is somewhat limited for room and will not be adequate long for the purposes of the Home.
But it is a modest beginning, and it was felt wiser to begin thus simply and spread out as occasion may require.
The house itself was built for Sister Jane Carrington Young in 1874 by her husband,
18 BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Apostle Brigham Young, Jr., and at her death passed into the hands of the Church.
President Joseph F.
Smith suggested the name when the matter was presented to him of "The Relief Society Home for Women and Girls," and such it has been named.
On the evening of December 19th there were assembled in the cosy parlor of the Home President Joseph F.
Smith, Presiding Bishop C.
W.
Nibley, Elder R.
K.
Thomas and Elders Arnold Schultess, C.
E.
Martin and A.
B.
Olsen, who where there as members of the Temple Quartette.
Of the sisters present there were President Emmeline B. "Wells, her two Counsellors, Sisters Clarissa S.
Williams and Julina L.
Smith; Mrs.
Rebecca Neibaur Nibley, who had charge of the services as the Chairman of the Home Committee Mrs.
Elizabth C.
McCune, Elizabeth C.
Crismon and Janette A.
Hyde of the Home committee Mrs.
Carrie S.
Thomas Mrs. ; ; Susa Young Gates' and Miss Sarah M.
McLelland of the General Board, and the Temple Quartette, with Sister Agnes McMillian Bolto as the contralto of that quartette.
The Chairman, Sister Nibley, introduced the singers, who rendered the hymn, beginning "When Dark and Drear" in a feeling manner.
Bishop Nibley offered the opening prayer, and the quartette sang "Gallilee." Sister Nibley then expressed her great joy shared by the Board in seeing the completion of this happy enterprise.
She related the circumstance of the hurried opening of the Home in July to accommodate the visitors to the N.
E.
A.
But not until the present time had the Committee been able to complete their plans and arrange for the formal dedication of the Home.
She spoke of the generosity of the Church in giving the Board this spacious house for the beginning of our Home and they had been equally generous in the assistance needed to further renovate and remodel the place to suit our needs.
She referred to the donations made by the Y.
L.
M.
I.
A., the Primary Board, the Tooele Stake Relief Society, the private donations of Sisters Annie Watson and Clarissa Smith Williams, Sisters Beatie, Jennings, Crismon and others, all of whom had contributed of their means and furniture to make the Home attractive and suitable.
Bedding had been donated in goodly quantities by various Relief Societies, while individuals and firms had also given liberally.
The moderate price for the rooms, from $6 to $25 a month, brought the Home within the reach of all the sisters who require its benefits.
There had been already seventy-two guests entertained in the Home, and each one had given expression to their great pleasure in finding such a place, permeated as it was with the spirit of kindness  and charity.
Sister Nibley read the House Rules, which were simple and yet effective.
There had been non-members of the Church entertained at the Home, but all had united in like expressions of praise and appreciation.
She spoke of the Employment Bureau which had been established in connection with the Home and hoped that the Latter-Day Saints girls who came to this city for work would avail themselves of its assistance and protection.
The members of the Home Committee were remembered by the speaker and their labors referred to, while those members of the Board (Sisters Sarah McLelland, Edna May Davis and our kind Sister Maria B.
Winder), who had served various terms as temporary patrons of the Home, were recalled with grateful words.
The present matron, Mrs.
Cornelia Home Clayton, is a woman of excellent character and kindly manners and received all who came in the proper spirit, and none were wounded or forgotten in her ministrations.
President Emmeline B.
Wells next expressed her great pleasure in having the President of the Church and the Presiding Bishop with us on this occasion.
It had long been the desire of her heart to see such a place as this provided for the care of the girls and women who need this protection and comfort.
She invoked the blessing of God upon all who came here, the priesthood and all who are interested in this good work.
President Joseph F.
Smith then offered the Dedicatory prayer.
He said in part: "Our Father in Heaven; we Thy children have assembled here this evening for the purpose of dedicating this House for the object and purpose for which it is designed.
While we call upon Thy name, may Thy spirit direct our minds and thoughts.
We are very grateful for this expression of Thy kindness towards us Thy children in permitting us to obtain a Home for those who may seek its shelter.
We would always remember Thy kindness and Thy much mercy towards us in all these things.
To this end we ask Thee to bless those of thy daughters who have contributed of their means to this enterprise; may they feel abundantly blessed and may their reward be multiplied unto them; for inasmuch as they have cast in their mites may they feel that they have not invested them in that which perishes with the using.
To this end wilt Thou bless the General Board of this great Society.
May they be united as the heart of one.
May they be joined together in the bonds of love and true fellowship; and may each one have a voice in the affairs of this organization, and each therefore feel the responsibility which rests upon all.
So wilt Thou bless Thy handmaids.
Especially
20 bless those who preside over this Society and the sisters who are in immediate charge of this home.
May each receive the spirit of her work and calling.
Bless the Matron, that she may be inspired in all her duties and labors.
That wisdom and great intelligence may go hand in hand with the spirit of human kindness which would pervade this Home.
That kindness which is tempered with prudence and wisdom.
Let all work together for the good of the whole that nothing out; of harmony with the principles of truth and righteousness may enter or obtain in these walls.
Bless and sanctify the sisters who labored to this purpose.
And if at times they are called upon to assist the poor or succor the afficted, may they help and minister in the spirit of charity and love, with the aid of those principles that make for happiness here and hereafter.
Father, look upon this Home and bless it we pray Thee.
Accept all that has been done and contributed by the Church, and by the sisters who have assisted.
Bless this building; preserve it from the devouring elements. ^lay it be solid in its foundations, and safe in its appointments.
May it be indeed an abode of peace and righteousness.
May the walls of the rooms thereof be filled with the spirit of peace and that spirit which gives us all understanding and joy.
May every object desired be realized by all who need that assistance.
We dedicate this Home and bless it and ask Thee to sanctify it as a place of peace and rest for the weary.
That the poor may not be spurned from its doors, but that they may be ministered to as they need and require.
That in the day of judgment we may realize that it may be said of us: "I was an hungered and ye fed me I was sick and ye ministered unto me I was in; ; prison and ye visited me." For inasmuch as we do this unto the least of His children we have so ministered unto Him.
We do dedicate and bless this Home, and we do it by virtue of the Holy priesthood invested in us.
Amen." Counsellor Clarissa S.
Williams then moved a rising vote of thanks by the members of the General Board there present to the Presidency of the Church and to the Presiding Bishopric for their generous gift and assistance.
It was unanimously carried.
Bishop C.
W.
Nibley then made a few but most timely remarks.
He endorsed the proceedings and the whole project.
He complimented the members of the Committee and all the sisters engaged in this Relief Society work.
The speaker  quoted the words of the Savior "Seek ye first the kingdom  of God, and his righteousness" that should be the ideal of the sisters engaged in this great work.
Seek first the kingdom of God. the interests of that kingdom.
His purpose and power and not seek our own purposes and desires.
We should do  what we can in the saving of souls, in assisting those who are in need, being prudent and careful in all these matters and in the expenditure of all funds -entrusted to our care. "I commend this Society for its work throughout the Church.
If we can only hold to the ideals laid down by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the organization of the Society we shall not go astray.
I dont believe," said the speaker, "that we appreciate the magnitude and greatness of the work you sisters are engaged in.
To be ministering angels, to wear the garb of charity, to bless and teach mankind this is a wonderful work and calling. *Ye are not of the world for I have chosen you out of the world,' said the Savior.
This organization should be different from anything in the world, greater in its scope, bigger in its work than anything the world can do, and not patterned after the foolish habits of those who know not God and His kingdom.
Rivet the sayings of the Savior on your minds, sisters, and seek ye first His righteousness.
If ever there was a time when we needed to follow the counsel of our leaders and live according to the principles of the Gospel independent of the world and its ways it is now.
May the Lord bless this Home and those who come here and those who labor here.
Amen." The quartette sang, "We thank Thee, God, for a Prophet," and the prayer of dismissal was pronounced by Elder R.
K.
Thomas.
In closing this article we would like to emphasize the importance and value of the Employment Bureau which we have established in our Home for our Latter-Day Saint girls who desire work in this city.
They will be certain to find friends and assistance in securing respectable places.
Bishops and parents would do well to note this feature of our work.
The prices are moderate and service is prompt and reliable.