the general boards. Miss Cameron urged Relief Society women to enlist in the Teacher Training classes. As long as we have class work in the Relief Society, we should make every effort to have our teachers as strong and capable as those in the other auxiliary organizations. Even if we cannot keep up with the best in these classes, we shall get great benefit from attendance. Mrs. Donette S. Kesler gave a most interesting and thorough report of the victory convention of the National American Women's Suffrage Association, and Congress of the League of Women Voters, held at the Congress hotel in Chicago. February 12 to 18. 1920. Mrs. Susa Young Gates and Mrs. Kesler represented the National Woman's Relief Society, as well as the Utah Suffrage  Association. One of the objects of our representation was that Utah might stand in her proper place as a suffrage state. 318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE REPORT OF THE N. A. W. S. A. HELD IN CHICAGO. Donette Kesler. The officers of the National American Woman's Suffrage Association, called the state auxiliaries, through their elected delegates, to meet in its fifty-first and final annual convention at Chicago, at the Congress hotel, February, 1920, from the 12th to 18th, inclusive. In the past, conventions have been held to disseminate the propaganda for a common cause, to cheer and encourage each other, to strengthen, organize, influence and to council as to ways and means of insuring further progress. This time they were called to rejoice that their struggle is over, their aim achieved, and the women of the nation about to enter into the enjoyment of their hard-earned political liberty. No longer necessary to fight for woman suffrage, the great work now is to prepare women to cast intelligent votes. To use, for the uplift of mankind, their power, brains and consciences. Women must be as independent in their party as men are in theirs, which is saying much. Women won't be welcome at the polls, but there is the place to go;  before going