Notes from the Field
By Amy Brown Lyman
West Australian Conference. A gathering was recently held in the West Australian conference. Mrs. Carrie S. Hyde, president of the Relief Societies of the Australian mission, was present and gave timely instructions. She pointed out the educational benefit to be derived from the
RELIEF SOCIETY OF WEST AUSTRALIAN CONFERENCE
lesson work, and also the value of the welfare work. The Society has a membership of 16, eleven of whom are subscribers to the Relief Society Magazine. This publication is greatly appreciated, and is an inspiration to the workers. The Society has a goodly supply of clothing on hand for emergency calls.
South African Mission. Before leaving the Relief Society work, in the South African mission, Mrs. Magdalen Sessions writes in part as follows: "My missionary work in Africa will be over very soon, as we sail for home in two weeks. The progress here has seemed to be very slow at times, and I have to read every report the Magazine contains by way of comparison to keep myself feeling encouraged. It is with much encouragement I can leave, however, for I feel the


work is now quite stable and secure. The Relief Society organization in Mowbray is really in a flourishing condition, and now we are succeeding with the theological lessons as outlined by the General Board. We also have sewing meetings?the Society buys the material and sells the article. Food sales are also held once each month, each contributor is paid back the cost, and the profit of the sale goes into the treasury. The members of the organization in Kimberly, Bloemfontein and Port Elizabeth are all studying the prescribed lessons this year. It is an ideal I hoped to reach before leaving Africa, and the Lord has blessed us in it. I shall be able to visit the organizations at Port Elizabeth, and the sisters in Durban on my way home. They all write very encouragingly of the Relief Society work. I came to Africa knowing very little about Relief Society work, and all I have learned has made me love it better as time passes. It is with great pleasure that I can say to you that I am leaving with the knowledge that so far as I know the South African societies are in the best condition that it has been my privilege to see them."
Western States Mission. A Relief Society was organized in Rapid City, South Dakota, in March, 1926. The women are enthusiastic over the lesson work the organization provides, and for the opportunity it gives them for discussion and self-expression. The Society gave a bazaar
RELIEF SOCIETY OF RAPID CITY, SOUTH DAKOTA
recently in connection with which they served supper to 125; $50 was cleared. It is their plan to assist with the purchase of an individual Sacrament set for the branch. The Relief Society Magazine is greatly appreciated by the women in this branch, and although few in number they have eight subscriptions.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 577
Franklin Stake. Mrs. Phoebe A. Merrill McNiel, for fifty years a worker and powerful advocate of the Relief Society, passed away at Preston, Idaho, July 8, 1926. Mrs. McNiel began her work in the organization at the age of 20, and continued faithfully until her death. She served most efficiently and tirelessly as stake secretary for many years. Mrs. McNiel was especially interested in the welfare and uplift of humanity, and in giving everybody an opportunity for development. She was a great source of strength and inspiration to her co-workers and associates, who deeply mourn her loss.
California Mission. Following is an interesting letter from Mrs. Margaret K. Miller, president of the Relief Society of the California mission: "After attending Relief Society conference, and while I was still filled with the beautiful spirit of the conference, and the splendid talks and advice given, I started on my trip through the mission Relief Societies in Nevada and the Northern part of California. Most of the organizations are small, but the members are working faithfully and are a great factor in keeping up an interest in the branches. I was delighted with the large number of young mothers who attend, and the interest they have in the lessons. They appreciate the Magazine, for it holds them together, and keeps the standard we, as a people, hold for our women, for they are continually meeting others not of our faith. The social service work helps them meet the needs of each community, and also gives them an opportunity to meet and discuss matters with other social workers. At our conference in San Francisco, a leading social worker of the City gave a talk on what was being done there along that line. There are two Relief Societies in San Francisco, and the new branch, which is only about seven months old, started with fourteen members. They now have forty-one, and have secured fifty-six subscriptions to the Magazine. There are three Societies in Oakland and one in Berkeley. In every instance we held an officers' meeting in the afternoon and a Relief Society conference in the evening, with a social hour following. The meetings were well attended, especially the evening meetings, many women coming out who were not members, and the brethren also came out in goodly numbers. We have some splendid and very efficient women at the head of our Relief Societies, and with the excellent support given by the members, the work is growing rapidly."
New Zealand Mission. Mrs. Cora S. Jenkins, president of the Relief Societies of the New Zealand mission writes: "Our annual conference or Hui Tau is now a matter of history. It was held at Nuhaka, Hawkes Bay,


and was a success in every way. The weather during the conference was ideal; the crowd which attended was a happy and congenial one, and the spirit of the gathering an inspiration to all. Our Relief Society work is conducted much the same as at home, being presided over by a president and two counselors. The counselors are chosen from among the local sisters. To assist them a board of eight other sisters, residing throughout the various districts of the mission, has been chosen and set apart to travel and visit among the local organizations. I had had the opportunity of visiting most of the districts of the mission, so knew what was most needed at the conference. Our first meeting was with the board members in which instructions were given pertaining to board work; questions being answered and testimonies borne. The second meeting held on Sunday was for all the officers and teachers and members of all the branches of the mission. At this gathering, besides the mission presidency and board, there were sixteen presidents of local organizations, four others being represented by counselors, so that of the thirty-four branches twenty of them were reported by their presiding officers. The total of all who attended this gathering was one hundred and eleven officers and members. This we consider a remarkable attendance considering the long and expensive journey made by most of them. Many of them traveled from 100 to 250 miles, a few over 400 miles and still a few more over 800 miles to arrive, besides the return journey. This meeting was taken up in receiving reports and answering questions pertaining to the work. Our third meeting was devoted to a class demonstration and talks on the following phases of the work, and the sustaining of the general and mission boards: Theology and class demonstration; Necessity of record keeping; Demonstration of proper visiting teaching, the topic being cleanliness in the homes; the Relief Society Magazine. On Monday at 10 A. M. we met with presidents and secretaries, answering their questions and instructing them on the filling out of the report blanks. During the Hui Tau, Sister Duncan received money for 21 subscriptions to the Magazine, making us a total of 66. We are very proud of our subscriptions, for so few of our sisters read English. Many of those who are now subscribers have to depend upon their children or others to read and explain it to them. Each month a lesson is taken from the Magazine, simplified and published in the mission magazine so that we may keep in close touch with the work at home. The conference did a great deal of good and we feel proud of the loyalty and support given this important work."
European Mission. Mrs. May Booth Talmage, president of the Relief Societies of the European Mission, has recently visited the societies of the
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 579
Netherlands and Danish missions, and the interesting reports which follow have reached the office concerning her visit. Mrs. Lillian D. Lillywhite, president of the Netherlands organizations writes from Rotterdam, Holland, and Mrs. Ida Anderson Peterson of the Danish organizations writes from Copenhagen, Denmark:
Netherlands Mission. "On July first, and including the sixth, our semi-annual conference was held here at Rotterdam, at which conference President and Mrs. James E. Talmage were in attendance, and contributed liberally to the interest of the conference, which was indeed a spiritual feast and a success from beginning to end. Every branch in the mission was represented by the missionaries and many of the Saints. We feel that much good will result of the coming together of so many people to be taught and counseled under the Spirit of the Lord. Our Relief Society work is growing in excellence, usefulness, and increasing in spirituality and numbers. I feel very happy over the progress that is being made in this splendid organization. This mission has ten well organized Societies, and all the members are working in harmony for the relief of the poor and the comfort of those in distress, administering to the sick and the needy, scattering cheer and sunshine wherever they are called to labor, or where their help is needed. The members take up the work assigned to them and respond to every call with a willingness that is amazing. Their devotion and love for the work I am sure is not surpassed anywhere in the Church. Two meeting nights in the month are devoted to lesson work, and the members are receiving much benefit from this study and are trying to apply these beautiful lessons in their daily lives. The other two meeting nights of the month are taken up in making articles of apparel for the needy. We are just now busy working and preparing for our annual bazaar, which is to be held in Rotterdam in September. Mrs. Talmage visited a meeting of the Relief Society in both the Rotterdam and Amsterdam branches, at which meetings there were more than eighty in attendance. She gave valuable instructions and counsel and in every way encouraged the members to be faithful in the performance of their duties. Her visit was highly appreciated by all."
Danish Mission. "The Danish mission Relief Societies have just recently been favored with a visit from President James E. Talmage of the European mission and his estimable wife, Mrs. May Booth Talmage. The elders and Saints in this beautiful city, Copenhagen, received a real thrill when President and Mrs. Talmage arrived here Friday, July 9, by airplane from Rotterdam, Holland, covering a distance of four hundred miles in four hours, and including


a stop in Hamburg, Germany, of forty minutes. The same evening they attended our regular Relief Society meeting, which was, as usual, attended by the Priesthood and male members of the branch as well as many strangers. We had a very enjoyable time and received some timely instructions. The following day President Talmage met with President Joseph L. Petersen, and discussed the conditions and needs of this mission, while Mrs. Talmage and I went over Relief Society work. Sunday, July 11, our distinguished visitors attended the Sunday school, met with the elders laboring in the Copenhagen conference in a special instruction meeting during the afternoon, and during the evening a largely attended public meeting was addressed by them. Monday, July 12, the visitors, in company with President Petersen and me, left this city by boat for Aarhus, the second largest city in the kingdom, this being also a conference headquarters. Arriving there the following morning, special elders' instruction meeting was held during the entire day, while at night a well attended public meeting was held. At the close separate sessions were held with the local priesthood and the Relief Society officers and members, after which the latter organization served refreshments to all present. Wednesday, July 14, upon the invitation of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas S. Hermansen, (the latter being a member of the Church) President and Mrs. Talmage, Elder Peter S. Christiansen and wife (Elder Christiansen is editor of the mission paper The Scandinavian Star) President Petersen and I spent the entire day at their beautiful country estate Allinggaard. It would take pages to describe the picturesque surroundings and the gorgeous furnishings of this home. The next morning the entire party motored back to Aarhus, about twenty miles away, and boarded the train for Aalborg, where meetings of a similar character as in other conferences were held. The following morning our visitors bade Denmark farewell, sailing from Frederikshaven to Gothenburg, Sweden, while we continued the visiting of the different branches in the mission. The work is carried on in this mission very similar to that at home. We have, however, had to change the lessons to fit the conditions in the land. We have six organizations fully organized and all doing good work. The Church owns its own headquarters in all the conferences. Denmark is a perfect garden spot. The beautiful forests, lakes, seashores, palaces and art galleries of world renown make it a real paradise for the thousands of tourists who invade its domain yearly. The Magazine is regularly received at the mission headquarters and is greatly appreciated."
Correction: In the Social Service Lesson published in the October issue of the Magazine, the word "moron" is spelled incorrectly. The spelling as it occurred was somehow overlooked in proof reading.?Editors.