CORNELIA: (Also admiring) They are exquisite! But tell me, what will become of them when thou diest?
WEALTHY LADY: (Questioningly, as if she had never before thought of this) When I die? When?I?die? (Sits down slowly.)
CORNELIA: Yes! When thou dost cross the cold, dark river never to return?
WEALTHY LADY: (Meditatively) When?I?Die!?Perhaps my husband will sell them; perhaps?he will bestow them upon his favorite slave; perhaps?indeed, I do not know. (She looks at them with less admiration in meditative mood, then dropping them into her lap with a toss of her head suddenly returns to her former manner.) Hast thou no jewels?
CORNELIA: Oh, yes! I have some lovely ones; shall I bring them?
WEALTHY LADY: Indeed I shall be happy to admire them with thee.
CORNELIA: (Exit Left)
SLAVE: (Steps forward, bows low or raises curtain for her mistress then resumes same position at back of stage.)
WEALTHY LADY: (Polishes her jewels with her handkerchief, admires them, rises, looks around, and pointing to mirror commands.) Slave!
SLAVE: (Come forward and holds mirror for W. L. to examine jewels in her head dress.)
WEALTHY LADY: (Polishes some of jewels and then dismisses slave with wave of hand.)
SLAVE: (Replaces mirror and returns to position at back of stage.)
WEALTHY LADY: (In center front of stage, admires her jewels, then suddenly shows by her expression that she recalls Cornelia's question. A change of thought comes over her). When I die!?When I die! (Hears Cornelia returning and assumes natural, dignified position at right.)
(Soft Music begins and continues until end.)
SLAVE: (Bows or raises curtain as Cornelia enters, bringing her two sons, then returns to position.)
CORNELIA: Lady my sons, Tiberius and Caius. (Boys bow respectfully and Wealthy Lady raises arm in acknowledgement.) These are my jewels; their warm, soft, loving arms are the necklaces I wear; their ruby lips and sparkling eyes, are the gems that fill my soul with joy; and when I go away from here (impressively) across the Mystic River?a little while?then they will come to me and I shall have them for my own forevermore. (Cornelia places arms around boys during the last part of the sentences, then releases them, stroking the hair of one of them lovingly.)
CORNELIA 573
WEALTHY LADY: (Looks longingly toward children then at her jewels in disappointed way, and again at Cornelia. Then she reaches out her empty jewelled arms.) Ah, Cornelia, wife of Sempronius Gracchus, Daughter of Scipio Africanus, and twelve times a mother?thou art indeed blessed! And ye, Tiberius and Caius, are thrice blessed in such a mother! Adieu! My Cornelia! (Walks slowly and reverently from stage.)
CORNELIA: (Watches her pityingly, extending her arm in sympathy to the retreating figure.)
WEALTHY LADY: (Turns once more and raises her arm in adieu.)
(CORNELIA AND CHILDREN make tableau in center of stage. As slave raises curtain or bows W. L. Out.)
Slow Curtain