view A day well spent, A day vivid with emotions; On trails passed over, then on trails Future intent.
TYPICAL VIEW OF GREEN RIVER, CALLED BY ESCALANTE RIO BUENA-VENTURA


Escalante and his Pioneer Band
Dr. William J. Snow—Brigham Young University
In this age of liberalism and the craze for everything modern, there are also counter movements looking to the past. One of the great lessons of history is that there are no abrupt or unrelated changes. Things that are, are a sequence of accumulated forces that have been before. And so to explain the present, we go back to the past and note the continuity of human development. In this way we gain perspective, broaden vision, promote tolerance and sympathy, and withal discover the impossibility of cutting away entirely from tradition and attempting to launch too far removed from present progress and experience. It must be noted, however, that history teaches eternal change as the law of growth and human advancement—change fitted to the varying hour. No apology then is needed for time devoted to genealogical research, to tracing old forgotten trails, and bringing to light the achievements of pioneers who have blazed paths and heralded from remote times the possibilities that have since become realities. Such was the character of Escalante and his little band, who one hundred and fifty years ago entered Utah valleys and dreamed of churches, missions and settlements here.
An awakened interest has been aroused in Escalante by reason of the enthusiasm and work of Dr. Herbert E. Bolton* of the University of California, who taught western history at the University of Utah during the Summer session. He, in company with some of his students, spent the week ends during the summer in tracing the route of Escalante's little band into and through
*Dr. Bolton is curator of the famous Bancroft Library, University of California. He has a copy of the original Escalante Journal and an excellent English translation, which he used in tracing the route of Escalante into Utah.


Utah to near the Arizona line. He pursued this work with scientific care and accuracy and was remarkably successful in identifying the trail from Montrose, Colorado, to Hurricane, Utah. Previously, Dr. Bolton had traced the route from Santa Fe to Montrose. There is yet some work to be done between Hurricane and Santa Fe in marking the return journey. In commemoration of this remarkable expedition, markers or monuments are being erected at significant points.* Some features of this famous wilderness journey are of especial interest to Latter-day Saints. Missionary zeal was the most marked characteristic. The Spanish fathers were most profound
THE COMING OF ESCALANTE INTO UTAH CO. VALLEYS
advocates of the "holy faith," and deeply devoted to the salvation of the native inhabitants of America—the Indians. Their courage and zeal were backed up by an earnestness and sacrifice that would do credit to any people at any time. Many of them gave their lives and their all to the conversion of the savages. Perhaps there are no more sincere and unselfish characters in history than Father Kino, who spent thirty years of his life among the Indians of Pimera, Alta and Arizona; Fathers Serra and Palou of California, and many others who might be mentioned. No danger was too
*One has been placed near Spanish Fork and another is to be built at Provo in the near future, the Provo Rotary Club having plans under way for the work.