Holland and Denmark
By May Booth Talmage
Have you ever crossed from England to Holland? No! Well, when such experience comes, may it be your happy privilege to find awaiting you, as we did, well nigh three score stalwart, smiling missionaries, some of whom had traveled from The Hague and other distant cities to meet the early morning train on July 4th—7:30 A. M. And on time! They were led by President John P. Lillywhite of the Netherlands mission, also by his small son Joel, whom to know is to remember. This first welcome was equaled in warmth only by that which followed, when we reached the door of No. 16-b Crooswijkschesingel. It opened as if by magic to let Sister Lillywhite fly down the steps to greet us. Inside the house flowers and sunshine and cheer radiated from every nook and corner, and no words were needed to make us feel at home.
Our few days in Holland were filled to the brim with worthwhile activities, as also were those spent in each of the three Scandinavian countries we visited. How then can one hope to do justice to them all, when the events of each day of our six weeks' absence from mission headquarters at Liverpool furnished material sufficient for an article of absorbing interest, if one's pen could but be made to chronicle impressions as they were made upon the mind and heart?
To be greeted and welcomed and have one's own addresses given in four different languages in six weeks is an achievement in itself,—to say nothing of having to learn how to get the right change for four different kinds of money, speaking in a strange language. The music in all the assemblies of the different countries was remarkably good, whether rendered by choirs, smaller groups or by individuals. Many times our souls were thrilled by the beautiful quality and tone of the voices and the excellent renditions.
But to return to Holland: There seemed a spirit of vigor, of enthusiasm and of optimistic outlook in the public gatherings, the missionary meetings and in the Relief Society work that can scarcely fail to bring successful results. We were told that the attendance on Sunday evening in Rotterdam made a new record for the mission. About eight hundred were present in all, with a large proportion of non-members, many of whom lingered for conversation after the meeting closed.
One of the outstanding features of ever increasing interest to us on our visit to the conferences in the various missions (our own,


the British mission, included) is found in the reports given by our missionaries in the gatherings held exclusively for such purpose. The meeting in Rotterdam was an example; there fifty-nine reports were made, testimonies borne and collective experiences related by men of various types and ages. The marvel of it all lies in the fact that these missionaries, young and old, whose lives hitherto have been full of such widely divergent interests, come to the mission field and adapt themselves to new conditions and environment, strange faces, different languages and customs; many of them being thrown at once into the closest association with companions who but a day or a week or a month before were total strangers; and yet hundreds of these men testify in all sincerity that such experience is to them beyond all price, and that the friendships thus formed are the strongest ever known to them.
The feature that interests me most is in learning how the gospel came to touch the lives of all these men, many of whom are of the third or fourth generation in the Church. But there was always a beginning, and its story has been handed down and is cherished as a rich heritage, and so we enjoy listening to them all.
Another feature of value is the expression of gratitude that comes into the hearts of these missionaries for the parents or grandparents who had the courage to accept the gospel and thus give to their children the opportunities that have come to them in such bounteous measure, yet never fully sensed or appreciated when they were at home.
The third item of special significance is the gradual unfolding and the increasing strength of their own testimonies concerning the gospel they are sent to preach. Numerous times we have seen them so overcome with feelings of gratitude and joy for the wonderful experiences and testimony, that they were unable to give adequate expression, and strong men have wept.
But this is again a digression from my recital of events. A delightful entertainment was given on Monday evening complimentary to a missionary who had been president of the Rotterdam conference, but who had been honorably released. The music here also was of a high order and the short play put on by the local young people was most creditable. A public session devoted to Relief Society interests on Sunday afternoon, followed by a meeting for members only, in which detailed instructions were given, and the privilege of attending a regular session on Tuesday evening, gave ample opportunity for us to justify our previous conclusions that the work of that organization is under very capable supervision and gives every evidence of being in excellent condition.
A few hours at The Hague enroute to Amsterdam afforded a pleasant chance to see the world-famed Peace Palace and to go
HOLLAND AND DENMARK 551
through the palace of Holland's queen. The latter was not as magnificent as are the royal dwellings in many of the larger countries, yet very dignified and beautiful withal; but there was no suggestion of home atmosphere, and one felt much sympathy for the only child, a daughter, who through the years must have found life very lonely in those silent, stately halls.
In Amsterdam we held an evening session with our members, and at its close an opportunity was given for us to meet and greet them all. One delightful day was spent in a visit to the "Low Country," where the famous Edam Cheese is made and where on the quaint little islands of Vollendam and Marken the people dress and live as their ancestors have dressed and lived for centuries now gone. Very quaint and picturesque they look, but that is another story as must also be the thrilling experience of our flight from Amsterdam to Copenhagen—a two days' continuous journey by boat and train—made in the space of five short hours including a forty-five minute stop-over in Hamburg. Across three countries in half a day! Verily these are marvelous times!
We were welcomed into Scandinavia by President Joseph L. Petersen and wife, of the Danish mission, also by Brother and Sister H. J. Christiansen, the former being editor of Skandinaviens Stjerne, and others of the mission and conference staff who were in the party. We all proceeded at once to the "locale" at mission headquarters, where a Relief Society meeting was awaiting our arrival before beginning. These meetings in all the branches throughout the Scandinavian countries are joint. The brethren show quite as deep an interest as the sisters in all activities on lesson nights, and alternate in conducting the meetings and in most instances take the lead in conducting class work. We strongly urged, however, that the sisters be taught and encouraged to take their share in the latter responsibility, that they might thereby reap full benefit.
There are few of our books, aside from the standard Church works, that have been translated into any of the Scandinavian languages, and because of this fact the missionaries as well as the resident members are under a great handicap; though the former have the advantage of being able to use the English books for reference—a procedure that does not help them in becoming acquainted with the new language. However, it seemed to be found satisfactory to use the standard works as textbooks in all auxiliary organizations, even at the risk of the younger members losing some of the enthusiasm that comes through a variety of study—such as is possible where a wealth of Church literature to suit all desire for educational uplift is at hand.
Throughout Norway we found the Relief Society and M. I. A. Organizations using the study articles published in the Millennial Star. These lessons are translated and copies made on a machine and distributed to the various conferences in


the mission by the efficient mission secretary, Sister Borghild E. Nielsen. Next year we hope the lessons will appear in the official publications of the different countries and will thereby provide individual copies for the members, thus making possible more thorough preparation.
The meetings in Copenhagen were almost a repetition of those in Rotterdam—full of interest and encouragement from start to finish. True, the numbers were not so large, but many of our members were away on vacations, planned months ahead, which they could not well cancel or change. Here also the Sunday afternoon public assemblage was reserved for Relief Society interests, and was followed by a well attended meeting of members and officers of the organization only. One great regret, however, was the absence, because of serious illness, of the Relief Society president of the Copenhagen branch.
Several opportunities were afforded us for brief respite between the various scheduled appointments, which were greatly enjoyed. A very pleasing and restful diversion was the delightful ride through the exclusive residential district. We journeyed for miles past lovely homes out to the grand old Royal Forest. On the way we passed the Summer home of England's late beloved queen mother, Alexandra, who was born and reared in this beautiful capital of Denmark. We did not wonder that she loved to return to its quiet, cultural dignity for seasons of rest and refreshment.
Through enchanting forest we wandered; it seemed like the fairyland of childhood, with its giant oaks and elms and beeches—centuries old they looked, with limbs extending over an area that would have reached beyond the confines of a good sized city lot. Deer were browsing about in herds quite unafraid, and one's imagination was taxed to understand how sportsmen "hunt" anything so plentiful, so tame, so trustful. The old King's Hunting Lodge stood unpretentious, dilapidated and silent, though it is said to have housed more of the crowned heads of Europe than any similar place in the world. One can easily believe this who remembers the family connections made by the marriages of the children and grandchildren of good old King Christian IX. From that royal household have descended an emperor and an empress, kings and queens, princes and princesses in bewildering array; and the fate of some of these has been the tragedy of the century, while others still hold rule and sway over the lives and hearts of millions.
A delicious dinner in a charming little resort outside the forest gate, the view across the sea showing the outlines of Sweden's coast in the distance, concluded an afternoon of rare charm and restfulness. One cannot help wishing it possible to convey to some of our young people at home, who are all too prone to assume an attitude of slight superiority over those who come to us from these Scandi-
HOLLAND AND DENMARK 553
navian countries, some of the admirable characteristics that have been so apparent to us, not only on this recent visit, but demonstrated at the Panama Exposition, where their achievements were so abundantly evident. The well constructed buildings, the substantial bridges, the beautiful and the cultural, as shown in the landscapes, the home furnishings and the works of art, the good breeding evinced by the respectful attitude shown to visitors, the well modulated voices, and the general good behavior in public, were all very pleasing to note and are traits that may well be emulated by uninformed critics.
From Copenhagen we proceeded with President and Sister Petersen by boat to Aarhus, where we were joined next day, by Brother and Sister Christiansen. It was very pleasing to see how many apparently influential people were at the station to bid them welcome, and most all of whom with many other non-members of the Church were in attendance at the evening public gathering. A Relief Society meeting was held later, and at its close all in the audience were served with ice cream and cake.
Present on this occasion were Mr. and Mrs. Thomas S. Hermansen, the latter a member of the Church. Both are known to many Utah people who have been partakers of their generous hospitality and to others who met them during their six weeks' visit to the Bee Hive state. We, the Talmages, Petersens and Christiansens—were taken next morning to the Hermansen country home about twenty-seven miles distant—a most beautiful and delightful auto ride. The "farm" proved to be a veritable estate, with its spacious house of thirty-two rooms, its forest, and lake, and numerous fields leased out to tenants. Many countries have yielded of their treasures of costly furniture and china and various types of bric-a-brac, with the result that an almost bewildering array of objects are found as one wanders from room to room in this country mansion. The house is thrown open from time to time, and the public is permitted to inspect its contents. Our traveling elders have frequently been partakers of its comforts, extended through the generosity of the owners. A modern radio set intercepted music and other entertaining features from London and continental cities. How impressive was the miracle of it all!
An hour's ride in early morning enabled us to catch the train for Aalborg. If this interesting place were known for nothing of note except that it gave to our Church our late beloved President Anthon H. Lund, it might well be held in high regard by our people. We felt greatly blessed in the privilege of attending services in the neat little L. D. S. Chapel erected, it is said, on the site of President Lund's birthplace. A grass plot without, where lovely roses were in bloom, and the spirit of reverence within, seemed typical of his quiet unostentatious though splendid life.


We shall remember the influence of the place long in future days. The very early departure of our train next morning did not deter our missionary friends who were out in full force to bid us Godspeed. We rode as far as Frederickshavn with Conference President Egert M. Larsen; thence we sailed for Sweden.
We have many pleasant memories of Denmark—of an afternoon spent in that wonderful museum in Copenhagen, of the ride taken by Sister Petersen and myself in Aarhus, while our husbands were busy with mission affairs. It was in a little Drodske and our driver had lived in America, so could tell us in our own language of the many things we passed; among these was the King's Summer home—the memory grove, where thousands of American and Danish war veterans and ex-service men met this Summer, and the place was dedicated as a site for a wonderful memorial building; through a lovely grove and then back to sea. Oh! There are many things we would like to write about if space would permit, but the memory of these experiences will come in future hours to enrich and bless our lives; and thus we bid adieu to Denmark with feelings of sadness at leaving and joy in happy thoughts.
Next month we write of Sweden and of Norway.