faith and confidence. Such a consummation cannot be reached by the improvement of machinery, but only by spiritual power. It is impossible to overstress the fact that the dilemma of man is Page 579 spiritual, nor that this has been long discernible to minds of insight. It was, perhaps, inevitable that the intellectual and social revolt against the norms of decency, the adolescent interest in sex that has moved the literary world, the abrogation of the standards of honesty, the denial of moral values, the contempt for religion which has come to characterize much of our thinking, should reach a grand climax in recurring world wars. These are the fatal genii which the modern Pandora must re-confine in the casket. ONE of the most shocking aspects of recent wars was the revision or abrogation of solemn treaties without notice, and at the whim or advantage of one of the contracting parties. Thus was destroyed the faith which must exist between civilized nations. But the roots of such international unfaith lie deep. Such distrust is based on a deep skepticism. Such faith is essentially faith in righteousness, justice, and truth, as the fundamental realities of human relations. A presumptuous age in its attempt to kill superstition has overshot the mark and has killed faith instead. Superstition still lingers, superstition of the grossest kind. We have only substituted for faith in moral values, faith in the Ouija board, the crystal ball, and the throw of dice. Faith in these does not demand morals, and we have apparently been more anxious to dispose of the sense of moral and spiritual responsibility than we have been to get rid of superstition. We have been very naive to expect the age of science, of organization, and of vitamins, to satisfy souls which can fulfill themselves supremely only through spiritual achievement. As teachers, let us assume that physical survival and the building of a decent world depend directly upon effective teaching, and then determine what can be done about it. Some may say that teaching is too slow, but there is nothing faster or surer than the right kind of instruction. But what is the right kind? It. Is the kind that a good teacher promotes. But what is a good teacher? Is she not one who is developing her students as well as her subject? Is not a good teacher one who promotes goodness? The highest possible achievement of skills, information, and vocation") competency are not all it takes to live successfully. People must have a set of moral and spiritual values firmly rooted in the gospel of Christ, if life is to find its legitimate