The Blue Dress A Short Story Vera Mayhew
NANCY looked with longing eyes at the old pink pitcher on the second shelf of the kitchen cupboard. It held a hoard of fifty-cent pieces, quarters, some small change and even a few dollar bills—ten percent, in fact, of all her chicken and egg money she had earned all summer. It was her tithing, and she was going to Church in town next Sunday and pay it to the bishop. At least, that was her plan. That's what she had saved it for. With one part of her she wanted to do the thing she had planned. But there was that troublesome other part—the part that liked to dress up and look pretty and that wanted to buy the new dinner dress she had seen in Capwell's window the day before when she had been in town with Ren. It was so exactly her blue. She stole a look at herself in the mirror above the sink and smiled at the image that looked back at her. A year of hard work hadn't dimmed the luster of her yellow hair nor coarsened the beauty of her clear complexion. She had taken good care of that. She looked at her hands in the soapy dishwater. Covered with rubber gloves they were. When her sister had protested at the lovely Nancy marrying a farmer, Nancy had answered that Ren loved beauty as much as any man and that she would take good care not to lose hers. She had taken care. She was as lovely now as when she married the year before. Her clothes were beginning to be shabby though. She and Ren went out a good deal in spite of the work, and clothes don't last forever. Next Saturday night was the annual dance of the Farmer's Alliance. Ren was chairman. They would have to go, and she really didn't have a thing to wear. Thoughtfully she poured out the soapy water, rinsed her cloths and her dish pan. She cleaned up her sink and took her towels out to the line. As she stepped back into the kitchen, her eyes went again to the pink pitcher. "I'll just get the pitcher down and see how much I have," she thought. She stacked the money in neat piles on the kitchen table. There were six dollar bills, twenty half dollars made four piles, and almost thirty quarters made three more. In all there was nearly twenty-five dollars, and the dress had been priced at twenty-two dollars and ninety-five cents. That would cover the sales tax and everything, she thought. She sighed deeply as she pushed the money back into the pitcher and put it on the cupboard shelf. By the time Ren came in to lunch, Nancy's head ached with thinking. "What's the matter, honey? Not sick, are you?" Ren asked solicitously. "Mustn't get sick for the big shindig Saturday night." "I'm not sick," Nancy answered. "I've just been wondering what I could wear." "Oh, so that's what's worrying you. The little bird's feathers are a bit limp and bedraggled." Nancy smiled at him. "I didn't
381
382
think there would be so many places to go out here, and my trousseau didn't include many evening clothes. I've worn everything I have about to pieces." Ren's face was grave. "I know, sweetheart," he said. "I wish I could tell you to go to town and get anything you wanted. Last year's nut crop being a failure sort of put the strings on us. There may be money after this year's crop is sold, but I can't be sure. Too bad you didn't use the poultry money for clothes." "That's what you said before, dear, but we have enjoyed the living room rug and draperies. I'm glad we bought them. Really I am, dear. If you get a good price for things this fall, I'll splurge. I'll buy my trousseau all over again," Nancy said. "But meanwhile?" Ren asked. "Darling, I am sorry. I'd like to give you everything that goes with beauty like yours." "Silly," Nancy answered. "I'm just a farmer's wife, and I have everything I want, thank you."
ALL afternoon the thought of the money in the old cream pitcher bothered her. She had always paid her tithing before. All the while she taught school a tenth of every check had gone to her bishop without question. Paying tithing was just something you did. You didn't any more think of things you could buy with your tithing money than you did of the things you could buy with your neighbor's money. It just wasn't yours to think about. Why, then, should she be thinking this way now? She could hear herself telling her mother that she would continue to live her religion
 
whether Ren was a member of the Church or not, and that some day he would join. She was sure of it. They had been married a year, and now she was not so sure of it. Ren made no objection to her going to Church, but he was never willing to go with her. He laughed a bit at what he called her funny notions at not drinking tea or coffee, but he never urged her. "Go ahead, chicken," he said, "your life's your own. You don't exactly share my idea of a good time, but if that's your way it's O. K. by me." She had never wavered before. Resolutely she put the thought of the blue dress out of her mind. She'd wear the rose-colored lace. If it was a little faded and had been expertly darned in a place or two, it would look all right under the artificial lights. There, with that decided, she could do something else. It wasn't as easy as thought. The vision of the blue dress kept coming between her and any task she set herself. She began to wish she hadn't gone to Oakland with Ren yesterday. If she hadn't seen the dress, she wouldn't want it, she would never have thought of getting a new one. What made her think she could use tithing money for it anyway? After dinner that night Ren said, "You look so tired, dear, I'll help you with the dishes." "I'm not really tired, and you've worked so hard all day," Nancy answered, "go into the other room and read your paper. I'll be right in." But Ren was stubborn and followed her into the kitchen and took a clean towel from the drawer. As they washed dishes, they chatted about the farm and the dance,
THE BLUE DRESS
skirting nimbly around any mention of the dress. Neither of them wanted to bring that up again.
REN carried a stack of plates over to the shelves, and as he put them away, he lifted the pink pitcher to put it out of the way. "This thing's heavy," he said, "what have you in it?" "Nothing," Nancy answered, trying to make her voice light. They had talked about tithing once before. It was all right for her to go to Church and follow her taboos, but she couldn't spend his hard-earned money to support any church. But this was her money. She had earned it herself, and they had agreed she could spend it as she wished. Still there was no use getting into a discussion about it. "It doesn't lift like nothing," he said, and peered into it. "Hmmm, money! Weren't you the girl who was wishing for a new dress just this noon? This must have been one hiding place you forgot when you dug up the money for the rug and draperies. Well, lucky you did, I'd say. You can go to town tomorrow and buy the dress." Nancy didn't answer, and Ren continued. "If there isn't enough here, it might be I could let you have a dollar or two." Laughing, he hugged her to him and began an intricate step about the kitchen floor. "Folks, meet Mrs. Harvey, the belle of the ball," he said. Nancy's heart was heavy. It seemed like her problem had been solved for her, but she wasn't happy about it. She should have put the pitcher back farther on the shelf or onto a higher one where he wouldn't see it. She couldn't tell him why she had saved the money. They
383
went into the living room, and each picked up a book and began to read, but Nancy couldn't keep her attention on the printed page. She kept going back in her mind to the scenes of her childhood. She remembered the time her father was on a mission and her mother had worked so hard in the store to keep it going until her father got back. Mother had to make it pay enough to keep the family and send Father what he needed, too. How many times she had gone with Mother to pay the tithing. She remembered the bishop saying one time, "Sister Thurston, it seems like you pay a tithing keeping your husband on a mission. I know you have use for this money. Why don't you just keep it?" Mother had simply answered, "Would you deprive me of the blessings of a tithe-payer?" The bishop had looked a little surprised, and said, "The Lord will bless you for your faithfulness." Mother had never doubted that she had been blessed. She had been able to keep her health under the double duty of the store and the home while Father had filled a full-time mission. Now, I'm afraid to speak up and tell Ren that I saved that money for tithing, Nancy thought miserably. I'm not a very worthy daughter of a strong mother. Again she tried to see the words before her, and again a mental vision obscured the page. She could hear her father's voice in family prayer, thanking God that a certain check had been delayed too long in the mail to be among those lost when the bank failed in the depression of 1932. They had none of them questioned that the delayed check was the bless-
384
ing of Heaven to a faithful tithe-payer. "Ren," she said, her voice a bit breathless, "that money in the pitcher.... It is twenty-four dollars and ninety cents." "Will that buy a dress?" he asked. "I could make it up to thirty, I think." "It isn't that. There is enough for the dress, but I don't want the dress. That is, I want it, of course, but... Well... That money is exactly one-tenth of the poultry money for this summer. Ren, dear, don't you see? It's my tithing. I owe it to the Lord." He just looked at her, amazement written on every line of his face. Then he shrugged his shoulders helplessly. "Well, I said that money was yours, and it still holds, but it seems pretty silly to me. Did it ever occur to you that a tenth is a pretty big slice of one's income to donate to any cause, no matter how worthy. How do you know someone else's wife won't have a new dress on it?" "Oh, Ren," Nancy said almost in tears. "I told you before that the tithing money builds churches and temples and hospitals and is put in trust for a time of need." "I know you told me. But how do you know?" he questioned. How did she know? What difference did it make? It was paying the money that brought the blessings, not how it was spent. "Look, honey," Ren said, "you take the car and go to Oakland tomorrow. Buy the dress to wear Saturday night, and when the crops are sold I'll give you the money and you can pay your tithing, if it's so important to you." How could she resist Ren? Of
 
course, he wanted her to look nice. He should be proud of his wife on an important night in his life.
THE next morning Nancy lagged with her work, but it was finally done. She put the money in her bag and climbed into the car and drove out the ranch gate. Ren was there to see her leave. "Get yourself a bang-up lunch," he called. "Go to the Leamington." As she drove along the country roads, Nancy scarcely saw the scenes that usually enthralled her on a drive to Oakland. Even when she came through the Broadway Low-level Tunnel and got her first glimpse of the Bay she didn't stop, as she usually did, just to fill her heart with the beauty before her. Her mind was far away—now back in her childhood and again on the farm with Ren. She stood in the fitting room gazing at her reflection in the three-way mirror. It was even lovelier than she had imagined. "It's like it was made for you," the salesgirl said. "You set it off like no one I ever saw." Nancy herself thought that she had never had a dress that was so thoroughly right. The night of the party Nancy was called to the telephone just as she began to dress. Ren was finished and was waiting downstairs for her before she had a chance to go back into her room and finish getting ready. He was waiting for her in the living room when she came in. He looked up at her expectantly, and his face fell. "Couldn't you find a dress?" he asked. "Yes, I found one," she answered,
THE BLUE DRESS
"but I found I couldn't take it. Ren, that money wasn't mine. I couldn't spend or even borrow it. I put the dress on. I even had them wrap it up, and then I said I'd changed my mind. I guess they thought I was crazy, but I couldn't help it." "Here, put your coat on. Let's get going," Ren said shortly. He was disappointed and angry. Of course, he would be. Now he would be ashamed of her. The other women would all have new dresses. They would be a credit to their husbands. Everyone would see the faded streaks in the rose lace. Everyone would know just where the spots had been mended. Everyone would think Ren couldn't take care of her or didn't want to get nice things for her. All evening Ren said little, and Nancy was miserable. They drove home in almost complete silence and went to bed without the usual talking it over. For a long time Nancy lay awake, her mind in a turmoil. What had she done to her marriage? Was it right to spoil anything as beautiful as she and Ren had because she must pay tithing? Why did she have to be like she was? Or, being that way, why did she have to love Ren so much? Sunday dawned clear and lovely. Nancy got up and hurried with her dinner preparations. Everything was ruined between her and Ren anyway. She would go to town and pay her tithing, get it off her mind,
385
and then never again worry about saving anything. She couldn't live with Ren and be at cross purposes about religion all the time. It would have been better if she had never spent that summer at California, never seen Ren and known that out of all the world he was just the only one for her. She put the roast in the oven and prepared the vegetables, choking back her tears. Then she set the breakfast table with just one place. Ren came in, shaved and wearing his best suit. "Had your breakfast?" he asked Nancy. She shook her head. Evidently he was going some place, and she wouldn't be able to have the car. Now what would she do? She felt like she couldn't stand it with that money in the house another day. "Oh, I forgot," he said. "This is the Sunday that you don't eat breakfast. It's sort of hard for me to get on to all your little ways, but I'm coming along. Sort of thought I'd go in to church with you this morning." "Ren, darling, will you?" Nancy's eyes were starry. She had never imagined such happiness. "If it is so important to you to live up to the teachings of your religion that you can sacrifice a new dress that you really want and, besides that, one that you really need, I guess I'll have to begin to find out what it's all about." Nancy breathed a silent prayer of thanks as she went into Ren's arms.