The young people who come to California looking for work are usually a fine type and a credit to the Church. It has been thought by some that we spend too much time on the stranger within our gates, but we were all strangers at one time or another, so we can't blame others for coming. Too many of our young people, and older ones, too, are in the I-can-do-anything class, and cannot take the better jobs. Calvin Coolidge said, "The world is full of educated derelicts and unsuccessful men with talents. Determination and persistence alone have unlimited powers." The truth in these words of Calvin Coolidge has been impressed upon me many times in my work in the welfare office. We never miss an opportunity to advise our visitors to attend Church, and try to give them a little spiritual uplift. 422 ? 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE, 1941

 A Relief Society Health Project Alverda Partridge First Counselor, Big Horn Stake Relief Society THE wheat interest money received by the wards and branches was pooled in a stake fund. There was such a small amount going to each ward that we felt we could do much more by pooling it. We had a little over $100 altogether. The ward presidents were consulted in deciding just what health project would be most beneficial, and after very careful consideration, a tonsil project was decided on. A survey of the needy families in each ward was made by the various ward presidents. Each ward president consulted her bishop, as he was very familiar with some of the cases in mind. After completing the list of those needing aid, the ward president then very tactfully made a personal visit to each one of these families, explaining her plan and offering aid to the families who desired it. After the survey was made, a committee, composed of ward presidents and some of the stake board members, met by appointment with the physicians in Lovell and explained their plan. The doctors were very cooperative, and said if the plan was to help those who were in need and would likely not be able to have care without assistance, they would give it at a reduced price. The physicians also promised to hold a clinic for a definite period of time, during which they would give physical examinations and smallpox vaccinations at reduced rates to all members of Big Horn stake?adults and children. After we had gone this far, nothing further was done until our plans were submitted to the General Board for approval. Approval was given, and it lent encouragement to us, and we began to work out our plans then, confident of success. A list of those needing tonsillectomies was submitted and approved for examination by the physicians. Each one was assigned a definite day on which to bring a certain number of patients to the hospital for operations. We had thirty-seven operations performed in the Lovell Hospital. In one of our branches, fifty miles distant, there were three other people who needed care very badly, and the physician in that vicinity, although not a member of our Church, was very cooperative. He performed these operations at a reduced price after hearing of our stake project. This made a total of forty tonsillectomies. As a result of the clinic, which was also held as planned, there were over one hundred inoculations for diphtheria and over one hundred vaccinations for smallpox. This service was paid for by the individuals, but it was given at a reduced rate. The stake Relief Society president and the physicians were the only ones who had any idea of the amounts charged for the operations. We felt it best to keep it just as quiet as possible. The board members did not even know?just the president. The doctors appreciated the confidence in which this infor-
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
mation was held. In all of our work we have found it best that very few know just who receives aid. In regard to these tonsillectomies, nobody knew just who was being helped, and we feel that has been a good condition, and it encourages others who really need aid. In one of our large wards there were so many needing care that we decided to ask the bishop for assist-
423
ance. He suggested that we go to the stake president and ask him for support in such an extensive project. This was done, and as a result, $100 was added to the Relief Society funds. We surely appreciated this as it made it possible for all who had been solicited to be cared for. We feel that a very worthy project was completed, and many are now enjoying better health as a result.
Cooperation with Community Agencies in Health Work Eva G. Gillespie President, Sharon Stake Relief Society
THEY say necessity is the mother of invention. We had very few funds with which to carry on, and we saw so much need among the children of our stake that we naturally turned to the first lesson in social welfare?contact community agencies. Through the cooperation of our public-health nurse, we started well-baby conferences nearly three years ago. We planned to hold them monthly, but the response was so great that we have held them twice monthly, and sometimes three times. These well-baby conferences are for children under six years of age. In our stake we have 789 children under six years of age, of whom 437 are registered at the conference, 391 have been protected against smallpox, and 431 against diphtheria. Protecting the infant against these diseases before he reaches one year of age assures a higher degree of immunity for the child, and less severe reaction from the immunization. Although the maternal and child-health program conducted by the State Board of Health is primarily for rural communities only, a government survey indicates that the entire State of Utah is considered rural with the exception of Salt Lake City, Ogden, and Provo. Federal funds are available to the state on a matching basis to carry out this work. A reliable doctor is employed and paid for by the state, and the nurse gives her time from her regular work. The other women, those who act as hostesses, those who take temperatures, weigh and measure the children and otherwise assist at these conferences, are volunteer Relief Society women. A thorough examination is given each child by the doctor, and advice given to the mother on the child's care. We find that these conferences are helping the mothers just as much as the children.
424
Corrective work is not done at these conferences, and so where the doctor finds corrective work necessary, with the assistance of the public-health nurse we follow up cases and use our funds for this purpose. Our public-health nurse spends over one-fourth of her time in visiting families, so who is in a better position to know the conditions in the home? We receive fine cooperation from our county commissioners. They matched the amount we paid out for nearly all tonsil and eye cases. Once each year, and sometimes twice, my counselor and I meet with our county commissioners, and they are certainly a fine group of men. We explain to them some of our problems in connection with corrective work, and point out that through rheumatism the children's hearts and other organs are being affected, and they have always responded very well. We never draw the line on whether the children are from Latter-day Saint families or not, as we are working for the good of the community. When the doctor sends the bill, I approve it and attach a little written history of the case, then send it to our commissioner, and he has always paid half of the charge of the corrective work. In some communities typhoid vaccine is also furnished by the state for everyone free of charge, and where necessity arises it can be secured by any section. This also applies to pneumonia serum and drugs for venereal disease. If we cannot get a physician to administer these things free of charge to indigent or borderline cases, we can contact the county physician and have it done. The Red Cross has been another
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE, 1941
source of help to us, and at present we have a class of forty-eight women in our stake taking the home nursing course, with our public-health nurse as instructor. She takes the time from her regular work to give these instructions. Our public-health nurse helps in teaching a class for expectant mothers at our Utah Valley Hospital, and we are urging every young mother to take advantage of this fine course. Then we have our Lions Club, the American Legion, and different business-men's clubs. If we acquaint them with some of our health problems they are very willing to assist. We also have a Chamber of Commerce in our little town of Orem, which assists us in our health work. In the past year we have had thirty tonsil cases taken care of, eight severe dental cases, two maternity cases, and five eye corrections, and as we have only a small wheat interest fund to draw from, you can see it would not go very far in paying these bills. Although our schools have a preventive health program and in our district two grades in each school receive complete dental care each year, and all children receive a medical examination, they have no funds for other corrective work. Last year they did a little experimental work in our case, and advanced a small amount which the community matched through sponsoring a picture show, and through dime donations from the children in our four schools. We are not anticipating this help for the coming year, as they can continue only the preventive program from their budget. Our records do not show very many cases taken care of, but we are instrumental in having numerous
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
cases taken care of through other agencies. The Crippled Children's Service?another government agency?the Tuberculosis Association, and the outpatient department of our Utah Valley Hospital have taken care of many cases without any cost to us, when referred to them after our investigation has found it is necessary. We also work in close cooperation with our county welfare workers, and have succeeded in having several operations and maternity cases hospitalized by them, with the Church, through the bishoprics, paying but
425
a small part. When we take care of maternity cases, our funds have stretched further by having the women cared for in the homes of the several fine women in our stake with sufficient training to care for these patients. The patients have appreciated it so much that we recommend this in our stake. It also helps the women who care for them, because in most cases they are widows and need the extra income. Our aim is to promote health and prevent disease, and if we work through our children, we are making a better generation to carry on.