HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon
Be joyful in the beauty of a rose-scented June day.
THE fourteenth of June is Flag Day, timely indeed to again draw attention to a part of the American Creed which reads: "I therefore believe it is my duty to my country to love it; to support its Constitution; to obey its laws; to respect its flag; and to defend it against all enemies." Also is it timely to once more give the proper use for the display of the flag: The flag should only be displayed between sunrise and sunset. When the flag is displayed from a staff, projecting horizontally or at an angle from a window sill, the flag should be hoisted union first. When flown in any other manner it should be displayed flat with the union uppermost and to the flag's own right; that is, to the observer's left. It should never be used for decorative purposes, such as festoons or drapings. When the flag is displayed over the middle of the street or between buildings it should be suspended vertically with the union to the north in an east and west street or to the east in a north and south street.
MINERVA R. YOUNG, wife and mother of heroes of World War I, was Utah's first purchaser of the new defense bonds.
LADY ASTOR, mayor of bomb-ravaged Plymouth, and Mrs. Modley, her deputy, led the mourners at the mass rites over the almost numberless victims of the air raids over Plymouth,
394
ALICE PAUL, noted feminist, says, "Men only are to blame for war." She has lately returned to America from a long sojourn at Geneva, where, with the League of Nations, she tried to give some aid to save civilization.
KRISTINE KALSTEAD, Metropolitan star, left recently for Oslo, Norway, to visit the "home folks," whom she has not seen since 1939. She does not know that she will be permitted to enter Norway.
DEANNA DURBIN, young motion picture favorite, included among her 500 guests at her wedding this spring, besides companion artists, all those who had worked on her pictures in any capacity.
DR. ANNIE JUMP CANNON of Harvard, most famous woman astronomer in the world, died last April.
ELIZABETH GREEN, Gold Star mother, whose son, Armistead Green, was the first University of Utah man killed in World War I, died last month.
FLORENCE REYNOLDS, of Utah, for the third time has had a play selected for radio presentation by the Boston School of Journalism. The new play is called "American Newspaper."
DAPHNE du MAURIER'S new book, "Come Wind, Come Weather," is a book for British morale.
 
Donna D. Sorensen - - - Second Counselor Vera W. Pohlman - - - Secretary-Treasurer
Belle S. Spafford Luella N. Adams Nellie O. Parker Gertrude R. Garff Vivian R. McConkie Leona B. Fetzer Anna S. Barlow Marylene C. Hemp Leda T. Jensen Edith S. Elliott Beatrice F. Stevens Anna B. Hart Achsa E. Paxman Pauline T. Pingree Mary G. Judd Ethel B. Andrew Rae B. Barker Alice B. Castleton
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman