Cycling in Denmark Intriguing Paths and New Horizons Gertrude Ryberg Garff Relief Society General Board Member MY SON, MARK RYBERG GARFF, AND 1 OFF FOR A BICYCLE RIDE  “LOOK out! You're in the L cycle path!" | And as I looked breathlessly around, it seemed as if hundreds of bicycles were headed straight toward me. As I jumped back to the sidewalk, I dazedly watched the cycles roll nonchalantly by. Gradually the words of Agnes Rothery, expressed in her book, Denmark, Kingdom of Reason, came to life before my very eyes: "Like the sands of the desert before the wind, the bicycles of Copenhagen scud down the streets." Then and there was born the decision to use a bicycle as my means of transportation. I'll admit the vision of me on wheels making my way through that maze of bicycles and heavy traffic was a little terrifying, but, even so, I decided it was safer to be a cyclist than a pedestrian. This decision not only kept me in the safest lane of travel, but it gave me Denmark as well! My first courageous venture into Cycling In Denmark Intriguing Paths and New Horizons Gertrude Ryberg Garft Relief Society General Board Member Copenhagen's traffic was attempted with my housekeeper as a guide. Until this time, I had never dared to cycle across the Seas—a series of large lakes running nearly the length of Copenhagen and dividing the city in half. On the other side of the Seas is the old city, where very few streets have special lanes for cycles. My cycling had heretofore been confined to the streets with well defined cycle paths; however, by this time I had acquired considerable self-confidence, and, besides, I wanted "to go real Danish" and buy: flowers at "Gront Torvet" (Open Market). At the Market We were on the scene sufficiently early to watch the farmers arrange their goods and watch the local shopkeepers come to make the necessary purchases for the day. It was such fun walking up and down between the beautifully displayed vegetables that we almost forgot to buy our long thin cucumbers and the ""Tuttibaerer," a fruit similar to cranberries, which we wanted for our Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners. I thought nothing could be nicer than the neatly displayed vegetables, but when I saw the flowers, I gasped with delightful appreciation. Such color, such variety, and so inexpensive! I believe next to their coffee and cakes the Danes like flowers best. Imagine buying an armful of spicy-smelling stocks for a quarter! It is here that the florists buy the flowers for their many little shops, and there is a "Blomster Forretning" for about every block in Copenhagen. With enthusiasm we quickly loaded our cycles with vegetables and flowers and pedaled our way homeward, just as any Danish housewives, elated over our bargaining with the shrewd farmers. Langelinie During the spring and summer of 1938, each morning was spent exploring a new part of Copenhagen. One morning, we decided to go to THE LITTLE MERMAID IN THE HARBOR OF COPENHAGEN THE FOUNTAIN GEFION Langelinie. My young American friend and I felt exhilarated as the fresh, cool, sea breeze blew into our faces. As we progressed on our way, we could see the Langelinie Promenade, which begins at the top of a little hill where the Fountain Gefion sparkles and plays in the sea air. This fountain, one of Copenhagen's creations of art, has its origin in the rich legendary background in which Denmark abounds. This statue depicts Gefion beginning her legendary drive and consists of the woman driving four oxen harnessed to a plow. All the Danes love the story which this statue tells. Gefion, one of the Nordic goddesses, came to earth to live, and after a time she asked King Gylfe of Sweden for a piece of land for her four sons. He told her she could have as much ground as she could plow from sunrise to sunset. She very cleverly met the challenge by turning her four sons into oxen; and harnessing them to a plow, she lashed them with her long whip and was able to plow by evening a large piece of land that was lifted out of Sweden and placed in the Baltic Sea. Every time I saw that fountain, I was impressed with the determination written in that strong beautiful face.  —JUNE, 1941 WALLS AND SMALL TOWN ON THE ROCKY ISLAND OF CHRISTIANS On the Promenade We left the beautiful fountain with reluctance, slowly to glide along the Promenade. 'To our right, as we cycled through the park, was the beautiful clean harbor of Copenhagen. Lonely on the rock sat. The Little Mermaid looking pensively out to open sea. With the enchantment of the morning still upon us, it wasn't hard to imagine her to be real, as she sat with the harbor waters lapping softly at the boulders just below. She has been immortalized by Hans Christian Anderson, who tells how the Little Mermaid gave up her beautiful voice so that she might have legs instead of a tail, even though each step was like walking on pins and needles. All this was because of her love for a mortal prince, who, nevertheless, chose a mortal princess. The Little Mermaid went back to the sea, and from the look on her face that morning I believe she was thinking of her lost love. Our journey led us past the cemetery in which Hans Christian Anderson is buried. We left our cycles at the gate and walked through the green stillness until we came to a small white arrow that bore the inscription, "Hans Christian Anderson's Grave." We followed the direction it pointed and came to the enclosure. With mixed feelings of tribute, reverence, and tenderness, we read his own poem beautifully engraved on the stone memorial: "God has created this soul in his likeness, Its immortality will never be lost; Our life on earth is an eternal faith, Our bodies will die, but the soul will never die." The Island of Bornholm One of my most enjoyable vacations was on my cycle. My husband and I decided to get out of the regular tourist paths and "go where the Danes go." We chose the island — of Bornholm, located between Sweden This is my own translation of this poem, and it may not be exact. CYCLING INDENMARK and Germany in the Baltic Sea.. One fine day we stood on the docks of Ronne, the capitol of the island, where we watched our cycles being unloaded from the steamer which had brought us from Copenhagen. The small cottage we had rented was a quarter of a mile from another house and faced the beautiful blue Baltic just above the "Sanctuary Cliffs." The island of Bornholm is not level and flat like Sjaeland, but is a series of hills; and I must say my husband often wondered, during some of our cycle tours on the island, if he had "used his head" in deciding on a "cycle" vacation. One day, we cycled up to the top of the island where high above the sea are the ruins of the seven-hundred-year-old Hammershus Castle. The old ruins seemed to whisper to us of exciting events. The view was magnificent, and while there remained nothing but the walls of the majestic old Fortress Castle, it had definitely an air of having been lived in. With the setting sun we started homeward, and I don't even remember one hill on that ride back. All I 389 ern Europe flourishing on that once bare wind-swept rock. Because of the scarcity of food, there is no livestock, and only one-hundred twenty people inhabit this island, all of whom are fishermen. Perhaps the most interesting thing of all was the thick stone walls, ranging from six to eighteen feet in width, built to protect them from an invasion by enemies and the sea. As we waved goodbye to these humble people, they showed their contentment with the bleak island, where their fathers had lived and where their children will live after them. A day or two later we said goodbye to the rocky cliffs and fertile fields of Bornholm, but we carried with us the memory of many pleasant hours cycling on an unusual island in the middle of the Baltic Sea. Elsinore of Yesterday Can you imagine the thrill of seeing Hamlet played right in the courtyard of Kronborg Castle, where the scene was laid? This was one time where the realization far exceeded the anticipation. I had watched carefully the newspapers, can recall is that long northern evening with the waves dashing high against the rocks, sometimes sending a salty spray into our faces. Another day we cycled up the coast where we took the mail boat out to the Christianso. We were told to check our cycles, because we could not use them on the island. When we arrived there the reason for doing this was obvious. Christianso is just a big head of granite sticking up out of the Baltic Sea. Nearly every shovelful of earth was brought by boat from other places, and now they have a garden with many flowers and trees from south-._DRAGSHOLM CASTLE, WHERE THE DUKE OF BOTHWELL WAS IMPRISONED FOR SEVERAL YEARS PREVIOUS TO HIS DEATH 390 telling first of the possibility of John. Gielgud's playing the part of Hamlet, then the picture of his signing the contract, next the news of the play rehearsals at the castle, and finally the dates of presentation. Here was a chance to see Hamlet and North Sjaeland at the same time. I convinced my husband that the hills of Sjaeland were not nearly so hard to cycle up as those on Bornholm; so he finally consented to what he thought was one of my "crazy ideas." One morning, we started out with the bare necessities in our luggage carriers, which are situated on the back of our cycles. We looked just like any other Herr and Fru Hans Hansen of Copenhagen. Away we went up the coast road to Helsingor, or Elsinore as the English people know it. It was very pleasant pedaling past the beautiful homes in the section known as the Danish Riviera. Soon, we were cycling down narrow little streets which haven't changed much since 1426, when Eric of Pomerania founded the present city of Elsinore. The closer we came to the castle the more beautiful it became. The grey stone towers, the green copper roofs, and the spires looked just as I had pictured a castle should look. Some castles are a disappointment to the imagination of our childhood. We left our cycles in the parking lot and made our way across the moat and into the courtyard, where we crossed another moat to get into the castle. As we watched the swans float lazily on the water, we wondered if Ophelia floated on this moat with her garland of nettles and daisies.  Legend has it that as a young actor William Shakespeare, with a company of English actors, performed for the Royal Family then living in the castle, and hearing the story of Prince Hamlet as recorded in Saxo's Historia Danica, he received inspiration to write the story of the melancholy prince. Fact or fiction, we did not care, because we were going to see Hamlet played in the courtyard of the actual castle where the scene was laid. When we had found our seats, we sat there with an unusually appreciative audience—waiting quietly, almost reverently, for the play to begin. As the curtains drew apart, only the sound of the actors' voices was heard, accompanied by the gentle flapping of the banners as the breeze blew in from the Sound. Spellbound? There isn't a word to describe how we were carried back centuries by the real tears in the eyes of Hamlet as he mourned his father's death, the perplexity of the gentle Ophelia, "To be or not to be," "Alas, poor you," "Sweets to the sweet." Those familiar phrases spoken in beautiful accents will remain forever in my memory connected with one of the highlights of my life. After the last curtain call when John Gielgud and Fay Compton smiled graciously and disappeared, we took the path back to the city along the battlements upon which "The majesty of buried Denmark Did sometimes march." And it was not difficult to imagine that we might meet the ghost of Hamlet's father if we were there at the right time. CYCLING IN DENMARK. Hillerod Early the next morning we soon found ourselves in the small town of Hillerod from whose main street one of the loveliest sights in the world can be seen. There "'like a water lily floating," to quote Humbert Wolfe, in the middle of a lake is Frederiksborg Castle, its rose-colored brick towers and walls silhouetted against the trees of the formal garden. On the opposite shore is a picture never to be forgotten. It is hard to believe that anyone could live in such a gorgeous setting and be unhappy. But as we walked through the beautiful rooms and corridors furnished during the Renaissance in Gobelin tapestries and carving, we could not help remembering the pathetic story of Caroline Matilde, Queen of Denmark and Norway, Princess of Great Britain and Ireland. The story ot this Queen (sister to King George IV of England) as the young bride of an imbecile King has been used by novelists and motion picture writers, but these portrayals are no more poignant than the real story. Faarevejle T'wo days later we were nearing the little town of Faarevejle. We had seen the white and red country church with the typical Corbie stepped gable from a distance and knew that past history awaited us there. The caretaker led us inside the church which had been standing since the twelfth century and had been built by Valdemar the Great. Just before the altar our guide rolled back the rug and lifted a trap door. We went backwards down the. Ladder-like steps into a small room. At one side stood a coffin. There under 391 a piece of glass lay the Duke of Bothwell, husband and lover of Mary Queen of Scots! A long man he was, and there on his head are the scars of the wounds inflicted by a sword. It was difficult to comprehend that we were actually looking at the remains of one who had played a significant role in the history of England and Scotland. We were glad to find our way out to the sunlight again. 'There the caretaker pointed the way to Dragsholm Castle, where the impetuous Duke spent the last five years of his life in solitary confinement. Homeward Bound After our visit to the castle, we turned our wheels again toward Copenhagen, past waving fields of grain, turning windmills, white thatched cottages with the neatest yards and prettiest flower gardens in the world. As the tower of Copenhagen appeared on the horizon, perhaps we pedaled a bit faster, for as the Danes say, "Ude er godt, men Hjem er bedst," meaning that it is nice to go away, but "there is no place like home." As we placed our cycles in their customary places in the backyard, we felt as if we were © rolling up the magic rug which had carried us over a land of beauty back into a past rich in story. As I write this (April, 1941) from my home safe in the "land of the free and the home of the brave," I am. Wondering if I will ever see the lovely land of Denmark again. One of my fondest wishes is that I may again explore more of the intriguing paths marked "Cycle Sti." Note: Courtesy, The Anchora of Delta Gamma.