A Sacred Past Preserved In A Sacred Place Joseph J. Cannon
TIME is the great destroyer of values—the old house, the old horse, the old dress, the old automobile may have been depreciated by it more than by wear. Yet time is also a creator of values. As soon as sufficient years have gone by to take from an object all utility, they may add increasing value to it as a relic. The hat, clothing, furniture that have gone out of style, and which you are ready to give to the Deseret Industries, may, if properly preserved for a hundred years, be so valuable that people will travel distances to see what odd things were worn and used way back in 1941. This is particularly true if you are a noted or a notorious character. The fact that things accumulate interest with the years is one of the reasons for museums. If left to the corruption of moth and rust, articles soon go out of existence, but in a museum they live on, enhanced by the flight of decades and the centuries. If you are imaginative, if you like to travel back and live with people and in situations that are past, come with me into the museum on Temple Square at Salt Lake City. Let's go through the east gate. It's a small portal, and you get a thrill as you pass through it and find yourself inside where the flowers are smiling joyously at the blue sky. We'll not stop to talk about the great Temple on our right. It's beginning to show the signs of age. Maybe you would like to see the weathering cleaned off, but more likely you think this gives character to the structure, like lines in the faces of great people. What about this low log house in the corner? Does anybody live in it? Would anybody like to live in its one room? Why keep it there? Because it is old; because it tells how the pioneers lived. Don't you feel how Sister Deuel must have rejoiced when she walked into it the first time and compared its roominess and comfort with the restricted space of a covered wagon? Let's go inside the museum and visit the east room. Pictures of an angel and seven men are in this place. The heavenly being is Moroni, the ancient prophet, in the act of delivering to the care of a young, modern prophet the record of his people, the Book of Mormon. It is a painting by Louis A. Ramsey. Looking at it, one finds the story of that great miracle easy to tell to strangers. Going clockwise, the next picture, also by Ramsey, is of Joseph Smith during his manhood. In the company of this room he looks very youthful. The pioneer leader, Brigham Young, comes next, a good painting by G. B. Matthews. In its old-fashioned frame the picture of John Taylor in white satin coat was done by Lorin S. Pratt from a painting by Constant in Paris in 1850. Wilford Woodruff is next, painted by a Chicago artist; then Lorenzo Snow, by Ramsey, Joseph F. Smith, by Ramsey, and Heber J. Grant by Lee Greene Richards. Guides tell their guests that the Priesthood and the keys of the Kingdom came from heaven by angelic visitation and descended from one of these prophets to another until they reached the present holder. As you step into the main room of the museum, you see at your right a grand piano. It is in good condition—at least the woodwork is. It must have been a joy to the Kimball family after its long journey across the plains. They say that when the oxen looked up at the lofty peaks of the Rockies, their hearts failed them, and they refused to pull their burden farther. The men dug a big hole, put the piano into it, wrapped in buffalo robes, and covered it with brush and earth. The next spring they went back and hauled it into the valley. Other furniture of this spot is from the Lion House, the home of President Brigham Young. The gilded mirror on the wall is from the Gardo House. Do you remember the Gardo House? It occupied the lot where the Federal Bank building now stands on the corner of State and South Temple streets. It was a magnificent place with Mansard roof—oh, but we're getting away from the museums. You touch reality, just a bit of it, and it stirs the memory and ignites the imagination so that you find yourself far afield. How that collection of spinning-wheels takes you out of this age of speed back to the days when the household was the factory for much that our forebears ate and wore! Spinning went on while the family members knit and read, peeled apples and sewed carpet rags before the open fireplace. There was spinning in solitude when the men and boys were in the fields; spinning when furtive glances were cast out the window to see whether Indians might be approaching. Nearby is a churn. A short time ago when Helen Keller visited the museum, we guided her hands to this familiar household article, the bane of childhood a generation ago. Miss Keller pumped the paddle up and down and laughed at her memories. Then we lifted the ox yoke nearby. She ran her hands over it and then under it, and we let it rest there a moment. "It was heavy on the animals," she said in her strange voice. "The Bible says, 'His yoke is easy and His burden is light.' I understand that better when I lift this." Against the wall is the throne and other properties from the Salt Lake Theater. What memories they evoke! Edwin Booth used them in his time. Lawrence Barrett, Henry Ward, Louis James, Robert Mantell employed them to enhance their magic art. And earlier, Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, George A. Smith, Willard Richards and their associates, those titans of the past, stirred with emotion and joy as they watched the sweet illusion behind the footlights.
BUT let us look at this row of cases. These things are too valuable to be left in the open; they must be put behind glass. First, let us look at this little exhibit of a buffalo skull. It has a message written in a beautiful hand on the whitened bone: "Pioneers camped here June 3d, 1847, making
A SACRED PAST PRESERVED IN A SACRED PLACE
377
378
15 miles today. All well. Brigham Young." From the standpoint of showmanship this is a great possession. The trouble with it is that the Pioneers did not travel 15 miles on that day, for it was Sunday, and, besides, Brigham Young did not write it. Remembering that it was the custom to leave such bulletins, one of his sons-in-law did it, employing a fine imagination but a poor historicity. The first of the formal cases is occupied appropriately by relics of Joseph Smith. Here we have his military cloak, epaulets, and swords. These, with the well-known picture of the Prophet addressing the Nauvoo Legion with saber raised, carry the impression that Joseph Smith was a military man. Doubtless remembering Far West, where he, a non-combatant, was betrayed into the hands of the militia, court-martialed and condemned to be executed the following morning, he desired that the new city of Nauvoo have a militia of its own. This strange privilege was granted by the Illinois legislature in which Abraham Lincoln sat. The Prophet succeeded, after a time, to the command of the Legion. He never took part in a battle, and when the crisis came and he needed the defense of the Legion to save his life, he gave himself into the hands of Governor Ford and the Carthage Greys, and issued orders for the Legion to deliver up its arms. In this case, we have the handkerchief given by the Prophet to Wilford Woodruff on that memorable day of healing on the banks of the Mississippi, in 1839. When Joseph instructed Brother Woodruff to wipe the faces of some sick children
 
and promised that they would be healed, he also told him that as long as he kept that handkerchief it would be a token of friendship between them. There is in this case a wisp of the Prophet's hair, which tells his complexion. That lock is golden, and suggests something of his expressive and hopeful nature. Joseph was a blue-eyed man, as were Presidents Young, Taylor, and Woodruff, and as is President Heber J. Grant. President Lorenzo Snow and President Joseph F. Smith had gray eyes. In one of the cases devoted to Joseph Smith and his time is the watch worn by President John Taylor in Carthage Jail at the time Joseph and Hyrum were slain. There is a scar under the figure "one." This marks where the bullet struck, and the back shows the lump its force caused. It would appear that President Taylor wore his timepiece, contrary to custom, with the face outward. He had been desperately wounded, and, as a matter of fact, carried the bullets in his body to the end of his days. As he seemed to be falling through the window, a musket ball from outside stopped him, and his body fell in the room instead of to the ground, where he would have met certain death. A moment later, Joseph plunged through the same opening. His body was set up against the curb of the well, and a squad of the militia fired a volley into it. This was unnecessary, as Joseph was doubtless dead when he struck the ground.
IN the case devoted to President Brigham Young there are two in-
A SACRED PAST PRESERVED IN A SACRED PLACE
379
teresting signatures. One is that of Thomas Ford, Governor of Illinois, appointing Brigham Young Lieutenant General of the Nauvoo Legion. This same Thomas Ford, by his cowardly conduct, abetted the death of the former Lieutenant General of the Legion, Joseph Smith. The other signature is that of President Millard Fillmore, naming Brigham Young governor of the Territory of Utah. For three years the people had been living practically under religious government, their attempts to get into the Union as the State or the Territory of Deseret having failed. In September, 1850, Congress admitted the Territory of Utah, and President Fillmore appointed Brigham Young its first governor. The news of all this did not reach the people until four months later, in January, 1851. That set of wooden gears up there in the case brings vivid pictures of the Pioneers carefully charting their way across the plains and mountains. First, they tied a red rag to the spoke of a wheel, and a man went along beside the moving wagon counting the revolutions. But Orson Pratt and William Clayton thought out, and Appleton M. Harmon built, a measuring device which they called a roadometer. It was perhaps the forerunner of the speedometer of today, though its limit couldn't have been much above 15 miles a day. In the next case are some specimens of the Mormon crickets. These wingless, beetle-like insects almost succeeded in taking the lives of the Pioneers, and they have acquired their name from their near victims. The dictionary calls them Mormon crickets, and the government issues bulletins under that name regarding their destruction. They have a wide habitat. Tourists say that they are now found as far back as Minnesota. The Pioneers had a great desire to become self-sustaining. Here are samples of glass they manufactured, paper made in their own mill, nails they cut or forged by hand, iron they smelted and cast, silk that they produced from the cocoons of worms they had fed on mulberry leaves, cotton grown in their own fields and spun and woven into cloth, linen they made from their own flax, pottery they shaped and burned, and many articles of their own handicraft and art. Across the aisle is the generous gift of Mr. Herbert S. Auerbach, who has been collecting what he calls Mormoniana for many years. He has given to the museum the furniture he obtained from Nauvoo, used in the home of Joseph Smith—chairs, tables, footstools, candlesticks, candle molds, a metal lantern with slits for the escape of the candlelight, a high-post bed, used in those days with a canopy, another bed and a baby's crib—articles a century old that show the taste and culture of the Nauvoo period. Joseph Smith's home was probably one of the best in the Illinois of that day. Some time this space may be adorned with murals depicting the life of the Prophet. Next to this is the beautiful art work of the Fairbanks family, showing in color and statuary the trek across the plains. John B. Fairbanks did most of the painting, though three of the panels were done by his gifted son, J. Leo. The sculpture is the work of another famous son,
380
Avard. This art recess is a lovely evidence of Utah culture in addition to the great story it tells.
MY how wordy I have been. I have run out of space and have only started on the museum. Many of the contributions of the Pioneers I have omitted. I have said nothing about the Indian room, nothing about the gifts of our missionaries from all parts of the world. And yet I wonder if that is not the right way. You shouldn't go to such a museum to pack neat bundles of information away in your mind like merchandise on a shelf. You go to spend a little time quietly with the past. If you hurry you are apt to lose the spell it casts. Under the best of conditions a repository like this can contain only part of things—a board from the door of Liberty Jail, a watch made by Heber C. Kimball, pipes from the Tabernacle organ, a long-barreled rifle owned by
 
Kit Carson. It is for us to reconstruct the whole from the suggestion of the part. We must build up the dramatic story of the noble prisoners in the Missouri jail, the prophetic counselor of Brigham Young, with hands of an expert craftsman the thoughtful Joseph Ridges building a cathedral organ out in the desert, the adventurous scout cruising these mountains with his good rifle in the crook of his arm. Here we touch life, not the life of today, which, because of its nearness, may seem commonplace, but the life of the past. And because that life has flowed into the ocean of years, it becomes romantic and stirring and significant. And since life is a tremendous experience and a magnificent adventure, we are likely to see its reality more clearly in a museum than in the scenes in which we and not the figures of the past are playing the parts.