Vol. 28 JUNE, 1941 No. 6
EDITORIAL
Those Who Are Chosen
THOSE who have taken upon themselves the name of Christ have a great responsibility in maintaining His organization and furthering His work upon the earth. The Master has said, "For behold, this is my work and my glory?to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:39.) The accomplishment of this great purpose requires the devoted service of all who will accept His call. Not only must we strive to live the law ourselves, but we must be active in enlisting others in His service. The Lord has need of every one of us, each according to his own endowments. Too often when a call to serve comes to us we disparage our own abilities, refusing to trust the inspiration and judgment of those appointed over us. Sensitive to our human weaknesses and shortcomings, and conscious of our limitations, we would deprive the great Church organization of our strengths and gifts. An important lesson is to be learned from a study of the calling of Christ's first apostles. They were men with human imperfections and many limitations. The Master recognized these, but He saw beyond them to the great strengths which could be utilized in the building of the Kingdom of God upon the earth. Scripture records: "And Jesus, walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers. "And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. "And they straightway left their nets, and followed him. "And going on from thence he saw other two brethren, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother. And he called them. "And they immediately left the ship and their father and followed him. "And as Jesus passed forth from thence, he saw a man named Matthew, sitting at the receipt of the custom: and he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him." Thus, so simply, is recorded the calling and response of these men to the greatest work ever given to men. Books have been written explaining the qualifications of these men for their work; their probable reactions to their call and their preparation for the work have received much
395
396
speculation. Men have pondered over why these certain ones were selected, who ofttimes stumbled on their way to greatness?who learned the hard way. Yet with all the writing, with all the surmise, we come back to this simple account: The Savior bid them, "Follow me," and they arose and "followed him." How well these men succeeded in their callings is borne out by scripture. Peter, despite his impulsive nature, grew to such stature as to become the head of Christ's earth organization. Matthew, a hated publican, has given to the world a record of Christ's ministry that has directed the lives of millions. John, referred to as the Son of Thunder because of the force of his wrath, is today universally accepted as "John, the beloved." Had these apostles stopped to count all the reasons why they were unfitted for their callings, how would the work have gone on? Christ had need of all the strengths they possessed. Despite their weaknesses and limitations, He called them to lend their strengths to His work. But after they "followed Him," it became their responsibility to conquer their weaknesses and develop additional strengths that they might be fitted to labor in His vineyard. Had Peter said, "I am so impulsive?there are many better qualified than I," how great would have been the loss to both the Church and to Peter himself. Had Matthew said, "But Master, think, I am a publican and the Jews hate me," or had he
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE, 1941
said, "I have a prosperous business, and if I leave it now I will lose all," even we today would have suffered great loss. The Lord's call, "Follow me," comes to us in this day as truly as it came to His early disciples. True, He does not call us directly, as He did in their day, but He calls us through His appointed agents here on earth. His work must go on. Its progress depends upon the strength we lend it. Needing our strengths, He is tolerant of our weaknesses. Each of us is called to a particular work because of some strength we possess that can forward that work. It is our responsibility to accept His calls, to grow in His service to such stature that our weaknesses and our limitations will not impede the progress of His work. We must not be so sensitive to our shortcomings that we fail to recognize and magnify our strengths. As we magnify our strengths our weaknesses will become submerged. In response to their callings, the Apostles manifested a willingness to follow, to learn by being with the Master and by doing His bidding. Thus, they became qualified for their work, and their efforts brought the blessings needed to carry it on to fruition. So we today may measure to the stature expected of us in our callings, remembering always the words of the Master: "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit."