Let's Make It A Reading Summer Marba C. Josephson Associate Editor, Improvement Era WOMEN should plan to give themselves a mental prod every once in a while. The summer is the ideal time to do this, for it provides the necessary amount of desire with the minimum of effort. Fires don't need to be stoked constantly; the children don't need to be hurried off to school; and cooking with fresh fruits and vegetables becomes a relatively simple matter. The matter of selecting the books, however, becomes quite a large order, for there are in the United States alone over thirty-one books published daily. When one stops to think of the 11,328 titles which are being issued yearly, one begins to realize the difficulty of selecting the best books. It stands to reason that some exceptionally good books will be slighted merely because of the physical inability to become acquainted with all of them. Here are a few that will compensate for the time spent with them —and will be pleasurable reading at the same time. CARAVAN FOR CHINA by Frank S. Stuart is an entirely different kind of book. Within its covers are bound mystery, romance, travel, intrigue, adventure, commerce, and religion. Woven from two truly magnificent civilizations, it includes the Roman Empire of Tiberius Caesar when Jesus was just teaching through the dusty hills of Syria, and it introduces the China of ancient legend and great repute. All these divergent interests and countries are synchronized through Page 392 the love of Simon of Cyrene for Helen, who had been sold into slavery, and eventually carried to China where the empress had purchased her. The long trek of Black Simon across almost uncharted deserts, his final rescue of Helen only to be treacherously betrayed are told fascinatingly by the author, who has rare ability to use the English language effectively and beautifully. THE GOOD SHEPHERD. By Gunnar Gunnarsson tells the simple story of an Icelandic shepherd, Benedict, who with his dog, Leo, and his bell-weather, Gnarly, make the trip each year to gather the sheep that have been missed in the autumn roundup. But it is much more than a trip for sheep he makes, for he stops at the neighbors and shares their joys and sorrows. A refreshing, courageous book, confident and hopeful, this will be particularly ~ enjoyable on a hot summer day. Something of a parable is this story, a parable that the whole world would find helpful to follow, in its homely philosophy of brotherliness and consideration—not only for human beings but also for animals, even among the least of God's creations. FOR OUR VINES HAVE TENDER GRAPES by George V. Martin should be read by every mother. Into the life of his heroine, nine-year-old Selma Jacobson, the author injects all the lovely, sensitive innocence of childhood. The setting is in a little country town of LET'S MAKE IT A READING SUMMER Wisconsin where the inhabitants are mostly of Norwegian stock. The sterling qualities of these folk in their honest belief in the true dignity of work, their neighborliness, and their cooperativeness are worthy of emulation. Worked into the seasons of the year, the plot partakes of the seasonal interests and is as wholesome and fundamentally good as the seasons are. The abiding belief in God will stir all Latter-day Saints. Those who have read The Yearling by Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings will vote this at least an equal rating with that book. Those who have not read it will find joy in reading the two books during the summer. RANDOM HARVEST by James Hilton is a strangely moving book, dealing as it does with a man whose memory failed him during the last days of World War I. His experiences are gradually unfolded from the first feeble remembrance until he has recaptured his full memory of what his life had been both before and after his accidents. To reveal more about the plot would rob it of its peculiar charm. We shall conclude by saying, therefore, that anyone who has read the author's previous books, Goodbye, Mr. Chips and Lost Horizon, will find this a book of equal merit.
FOR lush description and for a rare sense of peace no one should forego reading John Buchan's Mountain Meadow. To most people 393  John Buchan is known as Lord Tweedsmuir, governor-general of Canada until the time of his death February 11, 1940. Although this book is fiction, it undoubtedly is somewhat autobiographical because here in America, where Lord Tweedsmuir came from long service with the British Empire, he found a measure of peace that he had not found in other parts of the world. In the story of Edward Leithen, the reader cannot help feeling that he is following in a way the path that John Buchan himself trod in his search for spiritual satisfaction.
AND, for good measure, there is one little book that no woman should miss reading—and re-reading. It is the slim volume Mrs. Miniver by another delightful English person who has found refuge in America, Jan Struther. Mrs. Miniver is just the type of wife and mother that everyone who reads her book is convinced that she herself is. She finds great delight in the little things: the windshield wiper, rotating doors, chrysanthemums, knitting. Jan Struther has capitalized on the commonplace to give women the world over a new sense of their place in the world. Now these are just a few books. They will perhaps serve as a diving board from which you will spring into the whole sea of literature. And you can be assured that you will arise from your bath refreshed and better able to care for your regular duties.
"HAVE you ever rightly considered what the mere ability to read means? That it is the key which admits us to the whole world of thought and fancy and imagination? To the company of saint and sage, of the wisest and the wittiest at their wisest and wittiest moment? That it enables us to see with the keenest eyes, hear with the finest ears, and listen to the sweetest voices of all time?"—James Russell Lowell.