LESSON PREVIEW 1941-42
Theology and Testimony
Articles of Faith
A LOGICAL sequence of study in the theology department to follow after the consideration of the lives of our leaders is a course on the faith and doctrines of the Latter-day Saints. A study of our Articles of Faith will be undertaken, and this course will extend from October, 1941, through May, 1944. The book, Articles of Faith, by Elder James E. Talmage, will be used as a textbook instead of printed lessons in the Relief Society Magazine. Each chapter in the book will provide the material for one theology lesson. Because of its comprehensiveness and inclusiveness, the book is ideal for class leaders. It is also heavily referenced at the end of each chapter and there are additional notes in the appendix at the end of the book. The visiting teachers of each ward will carry into each Latter-day Saint home on their October visit a printed card copy of our Articles of Faith, and it is suggested that class leaders capitalize on this and offer suggestions for the use of this card by the women of the Church and their families. Thus, a mother may do much to increase her knowledge of the Gospel and encourage her children to interest themselves in the Articles of Faith. In March, 1841, at the request of Mr. John Wentworth, editor and proprietor of the Chicago Democrat, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote a sketch of the rise, progress, persecution, and faith of the Latter-day Saints. This very famous document was concluded with an epitome of the doctrines of the Church, since called the Articles of Faith. These statements of our faith were not "produced by the labored efforts and the harmonized contentions of scholastics, but were struck off by one mind at a single effort to make a declaration of that which is most assuredly believed by the Church.... The combined directness, perspicuity, simplicity and comprehensiveness of this statement of the doctrine of the Church is regarded as strong evidence of a divine inspiration operating upon the Prophet Joseph Smith." It is essential that every true member of the Church familiarize himself with the doctrines of the Church. Without an understanding of what we believe, we have no criterion by which to judge ourselves. The better the understanding we possess, the more anxious we are to live in accordance with Gospel precepts. Thus, it is necessary for us to become more familiar with the doctrines of the Church that our faith might grow and stimulate us to better living. Following are the lesson titles:
Chapter 1. Introductory Chapter 2. God and the Holy Trinity Chapter 3. Transgression and the Fall Chapter 4. The Atonement and Salvation Chapter 5. Faith and Repentance Chapter 6. Baptism
403
404
Chapter 7. Baptism?Continued Chapter 8. The Holy Ghost
Articles of Faith, by Elder James E. Talmage, may be purchased from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE, 1941
South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, for 75 cents for a single copy or in quantities of six or more at 60 cents per copy.
Visiting Teachers Messages To The Home
Expressions of Faith
IN order to increase faith in God and in the Gospel, and in the hope also of stimulating a fuller expression of faith, the Relief Society has planned to study this year in its theology course the doctrines of the Church as given in the Articles of Faith. It is desired that the spirit and influence of this study shall extend to all those who are unable to attend the theological class, but who may be contacted by the visiting teachers of the Society. With this end in view, the General Board of Relief Society will present to each stake, sometime this summer, enough printed card copies of the Articles of Faith so that one may be placed in each Latter-day Saint home when the teachers make their October visits. It is hoped that this card will not be put away in a drawer, but framed or mounted and placed on the wall, where it may be frequently seen and consulted by members of the family. There is a joy in encouraging righteousness in the world. Relief Society visiting teachers have a great mission to perform. At times, a deep concern is felt because some teachers do not make the most of their opportunities to give information, inspiration and encouragement in the homes. This is their privilege as well as their opportunity. It is a great satisfaction to hear of renewals of faith and expressions of blessings derived in the homes because of the fine work of Relief Society visiting teachers. However, there are many teachers who can improve their work. It is desired that every teacher in our Church strive more diligently to be a missionary in spirit, and that she be thoroughly prepared in order to accomplish a maximum amount of good. She should read the lesson, attend the preparation meeting, and pray for help and guidance. "The prepared teacher is the inspired teacher." Women in the Church can do no greater thing than to cultivate a sincere faith in God, which leads to good deeds and peace of soul. To stimulate and cultivate the inner faith which we possess, we must have spiritual exercise and endeavor, which will strengthen spiritual powers. To be consistent Latter-day Saints we must not only know and have an understanding of the doctrines of the Church, but we must express our faith in action. Working on the theory that we must be "doers of the word and not hearers
LESSON PREVIEW?1941-42
only," the visiting teacher message committee of the General Board has chosen as the general title of the messages for 1941-42, "Expressions of Faith," with the following titles for each month:
405
1. Faith
2. Prayer as an Expression of Faith
3. Fast Day Observance as an Expression of Faith
4. Loyalty to Church Leadership as an Expression of Faith
5. Attendance at Sacrament Meetings as an Expression of Faith
6. Service as an Expression of Faith
7. Sabbath Day Observance as an Expression of Faith
8. Obeying the Commandments of God as an Expression of Faith
Work-and-Business
Better Buymanship
IN the beginning days and years of Relief Society, the activities of the organization were devoted largely to helping people in need. As the program grew and expanded to meet other objectives of the organization, and the educational program became a definite part of Relief Society, activities concerned with helping people to better conditions in their homes were carried forward on the second Tuesday of the month, designated as work-and-business day. Relief Society should reserve in its program a place where up-to-date information and improved methods of homemaking may be discussed and made adaptable in the homes of its members. Anything that mothers can do to become better informed and more efficient in solving the many problems of the modern home on the present income or the reduced incomes that may lie ahead for the American family, will help to raise the standard of living to the highest level possible in each individual case. This objective has a definite place in our Society, as the great majority of its members are not only faithful, devoted Relief Society workers, but also mothers and homemakers upon whom rests the very important responsibility of being the hub around which the many phases of home life revolve. No small part of the manifold duties of a homemaker is to direct the family's consumption problems which are, generally speaking, four in number: those of manager, user, citizen, and buyer. As manager she makes impersonal comparisons between members of the family as to the importance of individual satisfactions, and apportions the family income so that desired values are attained. As user she applies techniques of food preparation, clothing construction, et cetera, to goods and services purchased, and shares in their ultimate consumption. As citizen she takes an active interest in legislation affecting consumption. As buyer she selects goods and services for family use. She should know what qualities she is buying and get what she wants at the lowest cost. To stretch the buying power of the family dollars is a real chal-
406
lenge and responsibility, and a possibility in most homes. The time element makes it impossible to discuss all four phases of the consumption problem. Since more people may be conscious of the buying phase, that approach to the subject has been chosen. The topics outlined for discussion will open the door to the value and extent of the subject. They will serve as a guide for individual study by the homemakers of Relief Society who are desirous of becoming more wise and efficient as a part of the group which is the chief spender of the nation. Activities involved in purchasing goods and services will take on new meaning and be much more interesting under the general
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE, 1941
title of "Better Buymanship." The following subjects are submitted for discussion during 1941-42:
1. The Consumer Movement
2. Judging Qualities in Materials
3. Comparison of the Fibers Used in Materials
4. Man-made Fibers in the Spotlight
5. Ready-to-wear Dresses and Coats
6. Hosiery
7. Children's Clothing
8. Care of Clothing
To conserve the space in the Relief Society Magazine for the lesson proper, no references will be printed at the end of each lesson. These references will be contained in a blue bulletin sent by the General Board to stake work-and-business leaders.
Literature
Humor in Life and Literature
AFTER three years of studying "The Advance of the Novel" in the literature department, we make a complete departure. The year 1941-42 will launch us into a course entitled, "Humor in Life and Literature." There are many reasons for choosing such a course of study: First, humor has a definite and dignified place in literature. We believe with Carlyle that "Humor has justly been regarded as the finest perfection of poetic genius." Second, we feel that there is a world-wide need for release from tension at present. Henry Ward Beecher, the great preacher, said, "Mirth is God's medicine.... He who has a sense of the humorous has more than wealth." Quoting the writer of our lessons, "Humor is like the seasoning in our food. We wouldn't want it as an entire diet. How much better life is for enough humor to make us relish it." Every age has had humor. Third, humor distinguishes us from the animal kingdom. Man rises to heights through an appreciation of humor. Humor not only reflects, but it helps to mold. God has given us a sense of humor that we should be careful not to lose, but use and refine. Max Eastman says that "being in fun" is a condition most natural to childhood and that "children at play reveal the humorous laugh in its simplest and most omnivorous form." Humor keeps
LESSON PREVIEW?1941-42
alive the luster of life and maintains balance. Fourth, great writers were always aware of it. It is universal. Thackeray said, "The humorous writer professes to awaken and direct your love, your pity, your kindness?your scorn for untruth, pretension, imposture?your tenderness for the weak, the poor, the oppressed, the unhappy." Fifth, the object of the course is not only for literary values, but it will have a wider scope. Through it, we are more aware of the humor of life. We hope that it will lift people's standards and enjoyments; that it will raise the general tenor of our appreciation of humor. There is a place for the practical application of humor in our homes. We have available high-class humor if we look for it. We should make women aware that they need a sense of humor. Many times humor might help us to better understand the point of view of our young people. It is often the sugar-coated method that accomplishes much, painlessly. Many possibilities and an unlimited amount of material for this course await the resourceful teacher and the active Relief Society class member. The following eight lessons will be presented in the Relief Society Magazine under the subject "Humor in Life and Literature:"
1. Introduction
2. Humor?Its Meaning, Principles Governing It, and Mediums of Expression
3. Mediums and Types of Humor
4. Types of Humor?Continued
5. Some Great Humorous Characters
6. Humor In Its Highest Form
7. Humor About and For Children
8. The Importance of a Sense of Humor
407
There will be no one text used for the course this year, but extensive references will follow each of the lessons. If, however, the stakes and wards wish to buy a book which will give an excellent background for the course, Stephen Leacock's Greatest Pages of American Humor, now on sale at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, will be of value. (Price $1.25.) The following supplementary reading list will be found helpful: "Humor?An Analysis," Books and Bookmen "The Place of Humor in Schools," F. Freudley, Educational Review "Sense of Humor in Children," N. Waterman, Home Progress, 3:4, September, 1939 "The University and Humor," Bookman, 32:522-9 "What Is Funny and Why," Literary Digest, 115:24, January 21, 1933 "Wit and Humor," Hygeia, 11:1033, November, 1933. "Are Women Humorous?" Outlook, 159:206-7, November 14, 1931 "Laughter of Little Children," Hygeia, 9:452-5, May, 1931 "Sense of Humor in Children," Century, 64:559 "Laughter Tonic for the Tired?Medicine for the Miserable," Hygeia, 16: 314-16
If class leaders will consider the following authors in their summer reading program, they will find excellent enrichment material for the literature lessons:
Bill Nye Benjamin Franklin James Whitcomb Riley Thomas Bailey Aldrich Eugene Field James T. Fields H. C. Bunner Samuel S. Cox Mark Twain Nathaniel Ward Harriet Beecher Stowe Artemus Ward Oliver Wendell Holmes Robert J. Burdette James Russell Lowell John G. Saxe Washington Irving Bret Harte Frank R. Stockton William D. Howells
408
Irvin S. Cobb A. A. Milne Will Rogers Stephen Leacock O. Henry E. M. Delafield Edna Ferber E. P. Wodehouse Ring Lardner Charles Lamb Booth Tarkington Robert Burns Edmund Vance Cooke Charles Dickens Clarence Day H. Buddington Kelland
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE, 1941
Social Science
Education For Family Life. Foundations for Successful Marriage
FOR a number of years the lessons scheduled for the fourth Tuesday of the month have been titled, "Social Service." In recent years, as the courses have referred to educational work rather than to principles of social work, it is felt that a broader title should be used, which would cover both phases of the work. We shall, therefore, in the future use the title, "Social Science," for this course. The lessons for 1941-42 will conclude the study of "Education for Family Life." The final course will be "Foundations for Successful Marriage." Following are the titles of each lesson:
1. What it Means to be Successfully Married
2. The Heritage of the Home
3. Stepping Toward Marriage Through Courtship
4. The Start and the Art of Marriage
5. Rights Versus Responsibilities in the Home
6. Economic Aspects of Family Life
7. The Future of Marriage and Family Life
No social science lesson is planned for December. Marriage failure is altogether too common in contemporary society, and human misery is multiplied because of it. Latter-day Saints regard the family as sacred, and as it crumbles around them on nearly every hand, quite naturally they become anxious to do something about it. But too often they do not know just how. This course is designed to help the mothers of Zion better understand some of the major problems of the family so that they will be better able to not only live more happily themselves, but to guide the generations of youth who are following in their footsteps. Our objective is to outline some of the foundations for successful marriage and to stimulate a firm desire to build upon them. Latter-day Saints have well-defined standards of family life, and this series of lessons will especially
LESSON PREVIEW?1941-42
stress the Latter-day Saint point of view. A regular textbook has not been chosen for this course of study, but reference to the books listed in the following general bibliography will be helpful:
GENERAL BIBLIOGRAPHY
Bigelow, W. F. (editor), Good Housekeeping Marriage Book, Prentice-Hall, Inc., New York, 1938. Brooks and Groves, Readings in the Family, J. B. Lippincott Co., Chicago, 1934. Burkhart, Roy A., From Friendship to Marriage, Harpers, New York, 1937. Folsom, J. K., Plan For Marriage, Harpers, New York, 1938. Groves, Ernest R., Marriage, Henry Holt, New York, 1933. Hart, Hornell, Personality and the Family, D. C. Heath and Co., New York, 1935. Levy, John, and Monroe, Ruth, The Happy Family, A. A. Knopf, New York, 1938. Mowrer, E. A., Family Disorganization, The University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1932. Nimkoff, Meyer F., The Family, Houghton, Mifflin Co., New York, 1934. Phelps, William Lyon, Marriage, E. P. Dutton and Co., New York, 1940.
409
Popenoe, Paul, The Conservation of the Family, Williams, Baltimore, 1926. Rich, Margaret E., Family Life Today, Houghton, Mifflin Co., New York, 1928. Sait, U. B., New Horizons for the Family, The Macmillan Co., New York, 1938. Wieman, Regina (Hanson) Westcott, Modern Family and the Church, Harpers, New York, 1937.
We do not recommend the purchase of these books, but hope that class leaders may find access to some of them through libraries. As these books are not written by Latter-day Saint writers, the General Board of Relief Society does not necessarily endorse all statements or opinions in the books listed. Class leaders are advised to be alert to the many excellent articles appearing in current magazines and periodicals on this subject. Because of its popularity and success, we again recommend that the discussion method of lesson presentation be used in this department.
Mission Lessons
Latter-day Saint Hymns
(For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature)
THE lessons in literature for the missions during 1941-42 will consist of a study of the poetic qualities and great truths of the Gospel as found in eight of our Mormon hymns. Singing has ever been an integral part of the services of our Church. Just three months after the establishment of the Church, in June, 1830, a commandment was given to Emma Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph, asking her to make a selection of sacred hymns for the Church. In that same section of the Doctrine and Covenants (Section 25), the Lord says, "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." The following eight hymns will be studied:
410
1. "The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee," words written by Parley P. Pratt (music by George Careless), is a poetic song telling of the bringing forth of the Gospel. It will always live in the hearts of Latter-day Saints.
2. "Oh, My Father," words written by Eliza R. Snow (music by Evan Stephens), pictures the sublime truth in Mormonism of an eternal home with a Heavenly Father and mother. It is the favorite hymn of many.
3. "The Spirit of God Like A Fire," words by William W. Phelps (writer of music unknown), may be called our "temple" hymn. It was sung at the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, and has been featured at the dedicatory services of every temple built since that time.
4. "While of These Emblems We Partake," words by John Nicholson (music by S. McBurney), is a song we associate closely with the sacred rite of partaking of the sacrament.
5. "We Thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet," words by William Fowler (music by Caroline E. S. Norton), is sung in honor of the Presidents of our Church who are the Lord's prophets on earth.
6. "School Thy Feelings, O My Brother," words by Charles W. Penrose (music by Ebenezer Beesley), is a song which
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE, 1941
carries a lesson for each of us and may, to our advantage, be read and sung often. 7. "True to the Faith," words and music by Evan Stephens, is a stirring song written for the youth of the Church. 8. "Softly Beams the Sacred Dawning," words by John Jaques (music by George Careless), foretells the dawning of the great Millennial Morn.
In a day of trouble and trial there comes great consolation through singing unto the Lord. In this connection we recall the comfort the Prophet Joseph received when, bowed down with grief in Carthage Jail, he requested John Taylor to sing him a hymn just a short time before the Martyrdom. We earnestly hope that any of our sisters who find themselves in distress will receive renewed faith and a determination to go ahead in the Lord's work through a heartfelt singing of the songs of Zion.
Note: For a further study of Latter-day Saint hymns not included in this course, we recommend Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns, by George D. Pyper.
PRAYER FOR STRENGTH Grace Williams Porter
Lone on the rocky crag, a tree flings high Its gnarled limbs, stark against the livid sky; Stripped of its leaves by gales that wrench and maim, Scourged by hail's swift attack and lightning's flame; Scorched by fierce summer suns, low pressed with snow, It wrests from nature's force the strength to grow. With roots deep-sunk through stone to fertile sod, It lifts triumphant arms in praise to God.
Lord, I am lonely as that mountain tree, Weighted and bound by stern necessity. Life's storms in fury lash about my head? Oh, may my roots, by life's dark stresses fed, Sink deep through stones of doubt to faith's rich sod And make me strong?of Thine own image?God.