NOTES TO THE FIELD
Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest
THE Eliza Roxey Snow Relief Society Memorial Prize Poem Contest is conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board. Three prizes are awarded?a first prize of $15, a second prize of $10, and a third prize of $5. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. Rules governing the contest are published herewith. Since 1923, when the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest was established, no definite subject has been recommended for the poems submitted. This year, because Latter-day Saint women are directing their interest toward the hundredth year of Relief Society, the Relief Society centennial is to be the theme of all poems submitted in the contest. In the past the contest has opened each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Magazine, and has closed on October 15. This year, because of the limitation of subject to the centennial theme, it is recognized that more time is desirable, and therefore the announcement is made in the June number of the Magazine. This year, the contest will close October 1, so that the prize-winning poems may be included in the new Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse which is now in the course of preparation. The object of the contest is to encourage women to do creative writing in the form of poetry, to appreciate more keenly the beauty and value of poetic verse, and, at this time especially, to direct creative expression and appreciation toward the Relief Society century. May this be the outstanding year for excellence in poetry.
RULES OF THE CONTEST
1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women. Members of the General Board and persons connected with the Relief Society office staff are not eligible to enter this contest.
2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.
3. The theme of the poem shall be the Relief Society centennial.
4. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written.
5. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks, and without attached explanatory material, pictures, et cetera.
6. Only one side of the paper should be used.
7. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used.
8. Statement should accompany the poem submitted certifying that it is the contestant's original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided.
397
398
9. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.
10. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE, 1941 from among the group of persons who are recognized writers. 11. The poems must be submitted not later than October 1. 12. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Relief Society Centennial Short Story Contest
THE General Board announces a short story contest as a feature of the observance of its centennial. Regulations governing the contest are published herewith. Attention is directed especially to the provisions that the stories submitted in the contest must have a Relief Society centennial theme, and that the contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary work accepted for publication by the editor of a recognized publication. The three prize-winning stories will be published in the Relief Society Magazine during the centennial year, 1942. Prize-winning stories will be the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for the published stories at regular Magazine rates.
RULES OF THE CONTEST
1. This contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition accepted for publication by the editor of a recognized vehicle of literary expression. Members of the General Board of Relief Society and persons connected with the Relief Society office staff are not eligible to enter this contest.
2. Three prizes are to be awarded?a first prize of $20; a second prize of $15; and a third prize of $10.
3. The theme of the story shall be the Relief Society centennial.
4. The story shall not exceed 3,000 words, and shall be typewritten.
5. All stories must be submitted before October 1, 1941.
6. Only one story may be submitted by any contestant.
7. The author's name shall not appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's real name and address, shall be enclosed with the story.
8. A statement is to accompany each story submitted certifying: (1) that the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication, and identifying such publication by name and date (or, if not yet published, evidence of its acceptance for publication); (2) that the story submitted is the contestant's original work; (3) that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.
9. There shall be five judges, consisting of two members of the General Board, two persons connected with the English Department of a reputable educational institution, and a writer of recognized merit.
10. All entries are to be addressed to: Relief Society Centennial Story Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.