Fathers Clarissa A. Beesley GIOVANNI PAPINI, in his Life of Christ, describes the affection of a father as the most perfect, pure, and disinterested love in the world. He says: "The father does for his son what he would do for no one else. His son is his creation, flesh of his flesh and of his bone, grown up by his side day by day, a completion and a complement of his own being. The old man lives again in the young man. The past sees itself in the future. He who has lived sacrifices himself for him who is to live. The father lives in the son, and feels himself exalted.... He has seen him grow up at his feet, he has warmed his cold little hands between his own, he has heard his first words, eternal miracle ever new! He has seen his first wavering footsteps on the floor of his house. Little by little, he has seen a soul shine out in that body created by him, a new human soul, unique treasure beyond price!"' We thank Papini for these words; for helping us to penetrate, however dimly, a father's heart, and to understand, however imperfectly, the hidden springs of his emotions. And not alone upon the son, but upon the girl-child also is lavished a father's devotion, with an added tenderness beyond expression. She is the light of his eye, the constant joy of his heart. In her he sees maturing again the flowers of feminine grace and charm which have delighted him in both his mother and his wife. There is scarcely anything more heart-warming than to witness the pride with which a father glows each time a new spirit comes into his home. He has suffered the mental pangs, if not the physical, necessary to the giving of life to a new individual. His anxiety for both mother and child has been great; his emotions have been intense. But after the pain and travail are past, both father and mother rejoice with deep gratitude. Into the home of every righteous couple is heard again the song of the angels, "Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given." Fortunate is the child whose father knows how to play and who leads him by the hand through the smiling days of innocence and through youth's tempestuous journey. Fortunate are both father and child who grow up in close companionship. To exchange confidences and to pray together under the stars is a sacred experience. "I must go out to the hills again To the lone hills standing by, And all I ask is a few friends And my own boy standing by." Often in our blindness, especially in our youth, we take fathers too much for granted. Without analyzing carefully, we somehow know that in the everyday affairs they will always be "standing by," saying little but understanding much, interested in our problems, smiling at our mistakes, sometimes reproving if we have misbehaved, giving advice which long experience has taught us we shall do well to heed. We feel deep down in our hearts that whatever happens "Dad" will in some way help us out. In the more severe crises what a bulwark is father! In time of trouble he still doesn't say much, but he does things. His quick decisive action, his kindly smile, his sympathy and protecting arm are there. Because we are so secure under this protection, we scarcely appreciate the strength that is guarding us. He has provided the home that shelters us; with his hands and brain he earns the means to give us daily bread and raiment. Often he carries financial problems we little dream of, and which he hides away lest they mar the happiness of his family. He is keenly sensitive to words of appreciation and acts of consideration shown him, which cost so little to express. A father and daughter of sixteen were together, teasing each other, for fathers do love to tease. He, in fun, was naming some of her faults, and she was combating them. But at last she said, "Well, anyway, I love you," and the light that came into his eyes was pleasant to see.
LATTER-DAY SAINT manhood reaches its highest pinnacle in fatherhood, for in this he is most like God. The Latter-day Saint father realizes the responsibility that is his, as well as the unspeakable blessing, in being permitted to beget sons and daughters who are indeed immortal spirits, children of the great Eternal Father of us all. Holding the Priesthood, he can officiate in giving a father's blessing and name in infancy; he can perform the baptismal ceremony which will admit that child into the kingdom of heaven; he can confer upon his son the same Priesthood which he himself holds. He leads or directs in family devotions. In times of illness and distress he can bless and invoke the powers from on high
 
to heal and to comfort. His is the responsibility, in conjunction with his companion, to teach his children the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and to prepare them for life's mission. Lessons in industry, loyalty, honesty, are taught daily in the family group. He does not command obedience but wins it by the power of his leadership. The late Jesse Knight, when asked how it was that his children obeyed him so readily, said, "I generally try to find out what they want to do and then tell them to do it." Great fathers we have known, fathers who have set before their sons and daughters mighty examples of faith and nobility, who have showered such a wealth of affection upon them that forever after its warmth and glow have remained with them. Such a father was President Joseph F. Smith. His children received his tenderest solicitation and love. He never met them, in the home or on the street, while they were young and after they were grown to manhood and womanhood, without saluting them with a kiss. He surrounded them with the Gospel atmosphere; he taught them with all his power and by his own shining example to love the Lord and keep His commandments. In the last moments of his life he declared that his children were his greatest treasures. Though the years may have multiplied, and we may have traveled far in life's accomplishments, yet we yearn for parental sympathy and counsel, and we are blessed indeed if it is still within our reach. In the presence of a good father and noble mother there is always inspiration.
FATHERS
One never moves downward but upward when he goes home to the ones who have given him life. Not only the prodigal, but each one of
375
us, may sense fully the significance of the words of confidence and hope, "I will arise and go to my father."