L. D. S. Training Pays!" Yas! America is a land of opportunity... But only for those who do something about it!. Thorough business training will ELECTRIC help you to succeed?and this is REFRIGERATION the right school for that training. L. D. S. BUSINESS ELECTRIC SEE YOUR ELECTRI COLLEGE APPLIANCE DEALER SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH (Just mail us a card for information) When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 Ma TOAST made from WY:: BETTER BREAD IS MORE DELICIOUS  OVEN-FRESH DAILY at YOUR GROCER'S  cannot be recalled; Tomorrow cannot be assured; This day only is yours. + LARKIN MORTUARIES Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Ogden, Utah 466 24th St. Telephone 82] Los Angeles, California 6003 Compton Avenue Jefferson 1244 VOL. 28, NO.7  4: LESSONS FOR JULY, 1941 & OCTOBER THE COVER By Avard Fairbanks THE Pioneers faced a frontier which demanded struggle, | sacrifice and sorrow, but still they pressed on. Out in the West a culture charged with spirituality of mind, with idealism in the building of healthy and strong bodies, and with plans for a splendid system of social organization was fostered by the pioneer forefathers. Have the sons and daughters of these hardy people lost sight of the vision and foresight of their ancestors? We cannot falter, for today we have new frontiers to conquer. The group of sculpture representing 'New Frontiers,'' composed and placed in the Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago, was so created to show that in our progress and development there are new frontiers for the descendants of the Pioneers. In the arrangement of this particular group of sculpture, the mother is placed in an elevated position?symbolic of our American concept of the mother. She is the center about which the family life is grouped. She is honored, and it is her husband's desire to keep her thus. She seeks the refinements of life. She looks forward. She senses and feels the living development and the great future beyond. It is her duty to guide and direct the children toward futures of high purpose. The courageous and strong husband provides for the physical necessities of life. It may be noticed that in his right hand he grasps the vegetables and fruits of the fields. He cultivates or provides that which gives sustenance to his family. In his left hand he supports the child. It is the great responsibility of true manhood to sponsor, uphold and protect life. The young boy at the opposite side of the group is shown with his books in his hand. He, as a symbol of youth, sees new fields of activity as a result of his learning. He is to carry on the culture of his progenitors. As our religious teachings point out that progress is eternal and that "the glory of God is intelligence," we must realize that we cannot come to the end of the horizon. It is constantly expanding and enlarging with our increased vision and activities. This group of sculpture through its tranquility and its dignity manifests that the youth of today seeks to further advance the culture established by the great Pioneers. The youth of today also will take on responsibilities of life. With force and energy it too will struggle and sacrifice and meet courageously its "New Frontiers."
Editor's Note: "New Frontiers," composed by Avard Fairbanks, is now in the Church museum, Temple Square, Salt Lake City. Art work on this month's cover is by Evan Jensen.
OTARION
THE RESULT OF ONE MAN'S EFFORTS
hearing aid. Available. Obligation or in your home if you prefer.
OTARION?511 McIntyre Bldg. DONALD G. LYMAN Salt Lake City 10
HEAR AGAIN.
OTARION is not just another hearing aid. It is the result of one man's determined effort to produce a hearing aid that would enable him to regain contact with the lost world of conversation and music. He demanded something better in every respect. The result is OTARION. The modern conception of the vacuum tube
Compare OTARION with any other hearing aid regardless of price. Budget plan
Discuss your hearing problem privately with a trained expert in our office, without
CALL or SEND IN this AD for the interesting story of OTARION. Dial 5-4036
Good Bread is the Staff of Life!
FISHER'S BETTER BREAD
Baked by The Fisher Master Bakers and Delivered Oven-fresh Daily at Your Grocer's
Is ONE OF Your Best FOOD VALUES
Add to meal-time variety by serving several kinds of Bread with each meal
I