LESSON PREVIEW
The Cover
"The Bride" is the title of the cover picture of this issue of the Magazine. When the new-green of spring has changed from its unbelievable freshness to the full-leafed assurance of summer, roses bloom in warm beauty, scenting June nights with their fragrance. The world awakens again to love. Charming brides pledge their love in marriage; noble minds are linked through spiritual ceremonies. The joy of a bride is perhaps the dreamed-of happiness which surpasses all previous joys of her life. When solemnized in the House of the Lord, hers is the promise of lasting love and eternal progression.
"The Bride," the cover picture, is from a drawing by Evan Jensen. The model is the artist's wife, Beth Boggess Jensen.
Ruby Johnson.
Index to Advertisers
Deseret Book Company Inside Back Cover
Fisher Baking Co. Outside Back Cover
L. D. S. Business College Inside Back Cover
Larkin Mortuaries Outside Back Cover
Utah Power & Light Co. Inside Back Cover
The Songster
Anna H. Michie
Out in the apple tree sits a gay songster
Tilting so lightly among the sweet blooms,
Gladness and joy he is sowing about him,
Cheering the world with his full-throated tunes.
Now, do I see why his song is so joyous,
Why he is singing with such lusty pride;
In their new nest in the branches close by him,
Happily listening, sits his young bride.
Sing, little warbler, your joy is supernal,
Cheer the whole world with your song of true love;
Sadness departs on the wings of your music,
Up soar my spirits to blue skies above.
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 28 JUNE, 1941 No. 6
Contents

Special Features
Back of contents — The Songster Anna H. Michie 359
Back of frontispiece — Let Us Sing to Love Inez Ruth Stevens 361
Frontispiece — St. George Temple 362
Today's Need — Spiritual Awakening — (April Conference Address)
President David O. McKay 363
Temple Marriage T. Edgar Lyon 369
Fathers Clarissa A. Beesley 373
A Sacred Past Preserved in a Sacred Place Joseph J. Cannon 376
Cycling in Denmark Gertrude R. Garff 386
Let's Make It A Reading Summer Marba C. Josephson 392
Social Welfare Department (Rehef Society General Conference, April, 1941) 411
Stringham A. Stevens 411
Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin 415
AHce H. Osborn 420
Alverda Partridge 422
Eva G. Gillespie 423
Annual Report (narrative) Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 426
Annual Financial and Statistical Report
Vera White Pohlman. General Secretary-Treasurer 432
Fiction
The Blue Dress Vera Mayhew 381
The Merry-Go-Round — Chapter 3 Alice Morrey Bailey 399
General Features
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 394
Editorial:
Those Who Are Chosen 395
Notes to the Field:
Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest 397
Relief Society Centennial Short Story Contest 398
Lessons
Lesson Preview — 1941-42 403 Poetry
The Songster Anna H. Michie 359
Let Us Sing to Love Inez Ruth Stevens 361
The Bride's Father Speaks to the Bridegroom Ohve W. Burt 372
When I Would Pass Jay Rubark 375
Our Youth Phyllis Clayton 380
Mid-Summer Peace Celia Van Cott 425

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 38-2741, Ex.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.

Let Us Sing to Love Inez Ruth Stevens
Let us sing to love which is from God, For love is found in all the universe. Love, like the still waters, is deep; It is refreshing to the weary traveler.
Love has the strength of the mountains And endures even as they. The heart is uplifted by it as a bird that soars above the mountain, singing.
Love has the straight growth of a tree reaching for sunshine; It bears fruit in rich abundance.
Love has the brightness and warmth of the sun, The glory of its rising, And the quiet of its setting.
Love is the shadow of a tree at noon-day And a welcome shelter in storm.
Nowhere can be found anything like love For it has the beauty of a moonlit valley, And it is a bright star; It has the delicacy of a newly opened bud, And it fills the soul as the perfume of a rare flower.
It is wildly beating as the high-tossed waves of the sea And as calm as a desert evening With whisperings and the caress of gentle breezes.
In love There are heights unclimbed, There are depths unsounded, There is vastness unmeasured, And there is the intimate closeness of the drop of dew hidden in the flower's heart.
Let us sing all together in praise of love, For love is wonderful past understanding. It is a choice gift from God.
ST. GEORGE TEMPLE
Site Dedicated on November 9, 1871. Temple Dedicated on April 6, 1877, by Elder Daniel H. Wells.
(Courtesy N. B. Lundwall)
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. 28 JUNE, 1941 No. 6