Social Welfare Department
Relief Society General Conference, April 2, 1941

(Addresses of Elder Stringham A. Stevens and Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin appear in full, the report of Alice H. Osborn given in this department, and of Alverda Partridge and Eva G. Gillespie, both given at the Presidents' Breakfast of the conference, are presented here as summaries.)
Church Welfare Stringham A. Stevens Member, General Church Welfare Committee
IF there is one fact which the experiences of the past five years have taught the members of the general welfare committee, it is that the women of the Church, and particularly the Relief Society members, not only have proved that they were indispensable in the welfare program, but in many cases they have carried far more than their share of the burden and responsibility. On behalf of the welfare committee of the Church and those who have benefited from this fine activity, I would like to thank the women for their marvelous contribution to this cause. Every Church woman is directly concerned with the entire welfare program, including all Priesthood activities, work projects, etc., because the men who are so vitally affected by this program in any capacity, either as administrative officers, or workers, or even as the ultimate beneficiaries who receive material help from the program, are the husbands, fathers, brothers, or sons of the women of the Church. So, in the larger sense, every project and every activity in some degree touches the lives of all Church members?men, women, and children alike. In this sense, all projects are in reality "joint" projects. But, as we all recognize, there is a special field in which the women of the Church, and particularly the Relief Society, are especially gifted to serve. The Prophet Joseph Smith recognized this outstanding quality when he gave the following instructions to the Relief Society organization in Nauvoo, 99 years ago. He said: "This charitable society is according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious. If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates.... This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls." I would also like to quote a paragraph from the remarkable address which President Clark delivered at Estes Park, Colorado, in June, 1939, particularly dealing with the place of the Relief Society in this program: "In all that relates to the supplying of clothing, the preparation and preservation of foodstuffs, the nursing of the sick, the burial of the dead, in all that relates to the infinities of kindly attention and sympathy, in all that relates even remotely
411
412
to the love and ritual of motherhood, the Women's Relief Society carries the burden. The bishop is the father of his ward; the Relief Society is the mother. The Church welfare plan could not be carried on without them; it serves in greatest measure where they are most active. They establish sewing and cooking centers, they help with making budgets, they encourage the heavily burdened and despondent, they hold up the hands of the faint-hearted, they sweep despair out of the hearts of the distressed, they plant hope and faith and righteousness in every household. Womanhood ripened into righteous motherhood is the nearest approach to the divine which mortals know. Mothers make the great membership of the Relief Society."
TO express it in the very simplest terms, the Church welfare program is merely a plan. Of itself it is not an organization. Someone has said it is a plan to abolish poverty in the Church. Yes, that is true in part, but it is more than that; it is a plan to coordinate the work of all the various agencies and organizations in the Church which logically are responsible for the temporal welfare of the Church membership, especially those in need and distress. These agencies are: first, the bishop; second, the Priesthood quorums; third, the Relief Society. By express revelation and by long practice extending back 100 years, these agencies have always been assigned this important responsibility. Therefore, the welfare program is a new plan, made necessary by the present size of the Church and the conditions which now exist, to coordinate
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE, 1941
and direct the work of caring for the temporal needs of the people. On every stake welfare committee, the stake Relief Society president and the stake women's work director not only hold membership, but they share equally in the responsibility of planning and directing the program in that stake. The same thing is true in every ward of the Church, where the ward Relief Society president and the ward women's work director play such an important part in their intimate contacts with the needy and distressed families of the ward. No other organization in the world can match the work of the Relief Society in its ministrations to the unfortunate members of the Church. I do not think you could find anywhere such marvelous activities carried on at such a low cost and so efficiently and so lovingly as is the work of this marvelous organization. I would like to heartily endorse the statement which Sister Lyman read this morning in connection with Relief Society projects and the use of the funds of the Relief Society. I hope that every stake officer of Relief Society throughout the Church will acquaint herself with this statement which has the endorsement not only of the general welfare committee, but the Presiding Bishopric and all of the General Authorities.
IN the very few moments which I have left, it would be impossible to even refer to the many activities of this very complex program, but I would like to say a few words about work projects. Perhaps this task of creating something to do for persons who have to be assisted is one phase of the welfare plan which is least
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
understood and most difficult to initiate. Of course, in the final analysis, the initiating of these projects is left to each community, because it is impossible for any general board or central committee to know the needs of all of the individual people, or the conditions of each individual ward. In a bulletin issued some months ago by the Northern Utah Region, the following general objectives were stressed in connection with work projects for both men and women: first, to train and rehabilitate unemployable members to qualify them for work in private industry; second, to assist all employable unemployed members to find work in private industry. I would like to say a word about these two objectives. From surveys made in that Region, and I think the same thing is true throughout the Church, we found that from 85 to 90 percent of the people who have to be assisted, and who are unemployed, have no special training to do any one thing well. It is amazing how few people have received training to carry out any definite work in life. Brother Ira J. Markham, of the Northern Utah Region, who is connected with the Weber College, wrote an article which was published in the Church Section of the Deseret News, on March 8, 1941, which deals with this important subject. It is called, "Building Men Into Jobs," and is a splendid article. Brother Markham says, "A man's job is the most important thing in his life." He also explains how the Northern Utah Region is trying to carry out these projects of training people to be qualified for jobs in private industry. I notice in today's paper a headline indicating a shortage of skilled workers in various industries, right at a time when we have great unemployment, and I think that is true all over the country. In a recent visit to the San Francisco Stake, I was informed that one of their greatest problems was that so few people who come to them for assistance are trained to fill the jobs available for skilled workers. I will proceed with the list of objectives: The third is to provide work on Church-directed projects for needy members who cannot be trained or rehabilitated for work in private industry; fourth, to educate members in more efficient household management and in becoming more efficient workers and managers. There are a number of others which time will not permit me to mention.
413
Many of the fine projects which have been listed, as I have stated, apply equally as well to women as to men. Some of these have to do with the construction, alteration and renovation of Church properties and private homes; also the manufacture and repair of furniture and household equipment. Also, many women in the Church have assisted in gardening projects, and in the establishment and development of new industries. In connection with these items, I would like to say that I know of many cases where the women have done work which I think they should not be called upon to do. I personally do not believe it is necessary for our women to paint public buildings, to thin beets, or weed large community gardens, and I am sure nobody would want any woman in this Church to do anything which
414
would physically injure her in any way. I am sure the program does not require any such thing. It is my personal opinion that sometimes men have allowed the women to lift heavy boxes and large containers in the canning centers when they really should not have done it. I would not want my wife to do it, and I would not want any woman in this Church to do it.
THERE are a number of projects which might be called "educational projects." One of these is training in efficient money management, budgeting income and expense, insurance, savings, et cetera. It seems to me that all too little has been said about thrift these days. In fact, it seems to be unpopular to even mention that word, and yet the lack of it is often the cause of great poverty and misfortune. Nearly every great fortune and every great business is built on the humble efforts of a man or a family which practices thrift. This is a subject for many sermons. What is needed is less talk about dividing the wealth, and more about how to create new wealth. I think the welfare program could develop a project along this line which would be beneficial to all of us. Other educational projects are: training in the use and abuse of credit; in getting out of debt; consumer education; adoption of family council plan; how to become more efficient buyers of needed goods and articles; how to find and how to keep a job; how to progress in a job. These are all projects in which mothers and wives can help their sons and fathers as well as their daughters. Another general project is improving morale. Whole communities
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE, 1941
can benefit from projects of this type: attendance at Church meetings and socials; developing friendships; being helpful to neighbors in times of sickness or distress; taking a friendly interest in neighbors and their children; temple visits in groups; encouragement in the practice of the Word of Wisdom; payment of tithes and offerings; ward teaching, and so on. Then there are a number of projects which are strictly for women. The Mormon Handicraft Shop has developed many of these in the making of gifts, souvenirs, leather goods, copper goods, art work, fancy work, et cetera. There is also the making of articles of clothing for sale at bazaars. Then there is the matter of preparing articles to fill relief needs?articles made of new cloth to meet the relief needs of stake or region, and the alteration and renovation of used clothing. The bulletin to which I have referred also lists a number of projects on employment?part-time employment, such as tending babies, washing, canning, house cleaning, and other household duties; and full-time employment, such as nursing, either as a practical nurse or a professional, trained nurse, clerical work, school teaching, and so on. Sewing, canning, and cooking are projects that have always been carried on by the women; also the matter of household management which the Relief Society has developed very largely, in the last few years going into the homes where training is needed and helping women to be better managers, teaching them how to care for and rear their children, how to meet family problems, manage household finances, and so on.
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
ONE of the basic objectives of this program is to produce, as far as possible, all of the things which we consume. For this reason, we are building modern, sanitary canning centers where food products of the very highest quality are processed. We are just now completing a modern milk condensary where we expect to produce all of the canned milk required by the eighty or more bishops' storehouses in the Church. Another fundamental objective is to train a large body of workers in every stake and ward who will be prepared to meet and solve any emergency which we may have to face, such as the aftermath of a world war. Some of the leading brethren feel that there may come a day when our nation may suffer a worse depression than anything we have ever known, when food, clothing and other necessities will be more valuable than gold. If such a time comes, we will have an army of trained workers who will know just what to do because of the schooling they are now receiving in this welfare program. For these reasons, it is felt that the work of this great program should be carried on by all of the Church membership, not only by
415
those who are now temporarily on relief, but by the ablest men and women in the Church, by those who now enjoy economic independence, as well as by the very humblest and the needy. If the high purposes of this divine plan are achieved in any degree, all must participate; the strong must help the weak. In speaking of this phase of the program, one of our leaders recently declared, "Every Church member, if he be living up to his opportunities and to his active and positive duties, is either a benefactor of the Church welfare plan or a beneficiary of it." In conclusion, I would like to read the final paragraph of the message of the First Presidency, which was read in the Tabernacle at the April conference, 1936, when this program was first inaugurated: "No pains must be spared to wipe out all feelings of diffidence, embarrassment, or shame on the part of those receiving relief; the ward must be one great family of equals. The spiritual welfare of those on relief must receive special care and be earnestly and prayerfully fostered. A system which gives relief for work or service will go far to reaching these ends."
Relief Society?An Aid to the Bishops Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin Member of the Presiding Bishopric
"For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: "Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. "Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink?
 ?JUNE, 1941
"When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? "Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? "And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." (Matthew 25:35-40)
THE Spirit expressed in this scripture of the Savior typifies the spirit of the Relief Society organization. Among the many relief societies in the world sponsored by governmental agencies, private agencies, or great fraternal organizations, there is not one that is comparable in spirit or in achievements to the National Woman's Relief Society?the reason for this being that this great organization of women came into existence through the inspiration bestowed upon the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is wonderful to contemplate that after the Church had been restored, the Priesthood returned to men, and the Gospel message sent to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, that the Lord should deem it wise to organize the women, the mothers of this great Church, into an organization which would wield an influence for love, helpfulness, sympathy, and kindness?these being the very essence of motherhood. And from that memorable day in 1842 when this great organization of mothers came into existence, it has cared for those who are in distress, those who are ill, and those who mourn the loss of loved ones.
THE assistance rendered to bishops in caring for the distressed is immeasurable. I do not know of any organization that has lightened the burdens of our bishops more than has the Relief Society. From personal experience, having had the honor of presiding over a ward, I know something of the duties of the bishopric. The bishopric is on the firing line in all Church activities. A bishop is literally and in all reality the father of his flock. He is a judge in Israel. The Lord has said: "And unto the bishop of the church, and unto such as God shall appoint and ordain to watch over the church and to be elders unto the church, are to have it given unto them to discern all those gifts lest there shall be any among you professing and yet be not of God." (Doctrine and Covenants, 46:27) The Lord in this revelation indicates that the bishop in his judgeship is to be endowed with the blessings of perception, wisdom, and good judgment. He is a judge in both spiritual and temporal matters; and his decision, with the concurrence of his counselors, stands as final. The presidents of our Relief Society organizations so revere and uphold the bishops of the Church. The attitude of Relief Society presidents toward the bishops is one wherein the bishops are accepted as the final judges; and the most inspirational experience that comes to those of us who travel over the Church is to note the loyalty and the willingness of the sisters to sustain our bishops. On the other hand, a wise bishop will always utilize the helps that the Lord has given unto him for the furtherance of the work?the great Relief Society organization being one of those helps. And this is particularly true in so many cases nowadays where people find themselves in need of assistance from the Church.
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
With all the qualifications that a bishop may possess, I am thoroughly convinced that there are very few of them who are capable of going into a distressed home and determining what the needs of the home are. To my way of thinking, there is only one individual who can go into a home, analyze its needs, and supply them wisely. That individual is one we may choose to call a home manager, a Relief Society president or her social aid. After all, these splendid women have homes of their own, have gone through the experiences related to motherhood and the management of homes. Calling in the Relief Society president or her aid, the bishop readily realizes that the report covering distress in the home will be made accurately, and he will be able to render wise and sane assistance, whether it be in the form of clothing, food fuel, or medical assistance. Relief Society workers should always keep in mind the fact that the bishop is the final judge; if for any reason he does not accept their suggestions, they realize that they have filled the assignment given unto them; their duty is done. I remember distinctly my experiences as a bishop of a ward during the darkest days of depression. Some forty families during a week's time applied for assistance. In these families there were many small children. The bishopric concluded that if a few potatoes, a sack of flour, and some coal were sent to these families, their needs would be met adequately. But we soon discovered that potatoes and flour did not provide a proper diet for growing children, and soon found it necessary
417
to call in our Relief Society sisters to assist us in the solving of our relief problem. I have always thought the Lord inspired us in selecting those three competent women?all of them mothers, women of understanding. And may I assure you that it was not long before these forty needy families were receiving proper attention, and particularly those foods, not luxuries, which afforded a proper diet. A small storehouse was set up in the chapel and was soon stocked with an abundance of plain and wholesome food. More than that, these sisters contributed from Relief Society funds periodically in assisting the bishopric to meet the problem of finances. May I say that our experience is the experience that many bishops of the Church are enjoying in relationship to the Relief Society presidencies and their aids. At this point, may I say that the Relief Society funds belong to the Relief Society, and no bishop should feel that he has the right to levy assessments upon our Relief Society sisters without their consent. However, if the Relief Society presidency feels that the bishop has need of funds, and a surplus is on hand, then it is their prerogative to assist him.
IN doing relief work among members of the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ, there are several points that should always be kept in mind: First, that all information pertaining to these families in need is to be kept strictly confidential. Otherwise, information of this character becomes common gossip, and as a result, a fine member of the Church might be deeply hurt and embarrassed. Furthermore, it is highly
418
essential that these confidences be kept sacred because a Relief Society worker can soon lose her influence with, and the respect of, those whom she is endeavoring to help. A Relief Society president or her social aid should be endowed with a high degree of good judgment. She should not be over-emotional. She should be wise, prudent, and not go to extremes; and in all of her work she should make it just as practical as possible. If we are humble and prayerful in this great relief project, the Lord will endow all of us with good judgment and inspiration. This is a work which requires a kind attitude; for, after all, the attitude and the spirit of the relief work in the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ should be influenced by the Spirit of the Master himself. After all, real sympathy says little, but does much. We should be tolerant and have the faculty of suspending judgment in any or all cases until the facts are known and both sides of the questions involved thoroughly considered. We should never condemn a person unheard, and we should always be able to see the other individual's point of view. The matter of relief has changed during the past eight years. Eight years ago it was a matter of providing for the older people, the widow, and the orphan; but the period of depression has presented new problems. Not only the aged widow and the orphan are in need, but men in the very prime of life are struggling against tremendous odds. It is not an uncommon thing to hear a man of forty years of age say upon applying for employment, "I am told [am too old." The demands made 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE, 1941

 upon labor and the desires of modern-day industry would exclude from employment men who have attained the age of forty. Consequently, a problem comes before us which is most serious, a problem wherein these men must have assistance to rehabilitate them in their attitude toward work, toward government, and, in many instances, toward the Church. I congratulate the Relief Society upon its splendid achievement in securing positions for so many of our sisters; and I am sure that the organization can be of assistance in helping our unemployed brethren, particularly whenever anything needs to be done about the home or where other opportunities for employment may be known. You would render real assistance to your bishop and the ward welfare committee if you would constantly keep in mind the fact that in all wards of the Church there are many of our brethren who are seeking employment. OUR Relief Society presidents could render a high degree of assistance to the bishops of the wards in familiarizing themselves with certain phases of the Social Security Act, particularly that part of it which is related to assistance for crippled children and dependent children. I am confident all of our bishops are not fully acquainted with the various services that can be secured to assist crippled and dependent children, Relief Society presidents of the *For summary of child-welfare provisions of the Social Security Act, see '"Child Welfare Provisions of the Social Security Act," by Vera W. Pohlman, Relief Society Magazine, March, 1941, pp. 183-195. SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT Church can be of further assistance io our bishops in clearing cases, not only through Church sources, but. By gathering, confidentially and quietly, information from other agencies which would afford the bishops a complete report of the families involved, and with your help, aid them to determine what is to be done. It is rather interesting to note that in the counties of the State of Utah there are different rulings as to what constitutes the family budget. Ina recent conference with certain representatives, it has been found that the budget of Salt Lake County is not adequate, and for that reason the Church is called upon frequently to render supplemental assistance. 'The presidents of our Relief Societies can render a real service in becoming fully acquainted with the family budgets set up in the various counties where they live. If the budget is not adequate, then your suggestions to the bishops to supplement will be most helpful. May I further suggest that where supplemental assistance is anticipated, it is always wise to contact the county agency, notifying it of your intention; and by this procedure you will avoid misunderstandings with county agencies and will not jeopardize assistance being rendered by the county to families in distress. Cases have come to our attention where supplemental assistance has been rendered without the knowledge of the county welfare department; and upon learning of the assistance, the county has immediately deducted the amount of the supplemental assistance from the family budget, working a hardship upon the family. As presidents of Relief Societies, 419 you must always keep in mind that the great objective of the Church is the individual; consequently it is the duty of all of us to see that there is no breaking down in the attitude of the people toward work, toward the Church, and toward government. We should impress upon everyone receiving assistance that he is worth something in the sight of God and is worth saving. We should have a wholesome respect for the individual, for his personality, character; and, finally, in rendering relief be sure, as far as possible, that no individual, unless he is physically incapacitated, is going to become wholly dependent upon the state or the Church. Every individual should be encouraged to work and assist himself and never be allowed to feel he is entirely dependent upon society for his maintenance. If opportunities for employment are not available in private industry, then through the agency of the welfare program those projects should be set in motion which will afford every man or woman who is in need of assistance the opportunity to contribute of his time and talents to the program and, in turn, receive the necessities of life, which will belong to him because they have been earned by the sweat of his own brow. The Relief Societies render assistance in other ways than relief. The opportunities aftorded our sisters in cultural pursuits, in recreation, in learning how to do things with their hands, is really an outstanding achievement. With your assistance we cannot fail. A united Priesthood and a cooperative organization of the mothers of Israel can achieve all that the 420 Lord requires of us. The eyes of the world are upon us, and our destiny is leadership and success. Let the world see our achievements, and they will be happy to follow after us. May the Lord bless you, inspire you, that every aim of your great 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE, 1941

 organization of women will be achieved and that the spirit of Relief Society work will be radiated the world over and the words of the Redeemer be fulfilled in behalf of the distressed, the sick, and those who mourn. Report of Relief Society &mployment Office, Los Angeles Alice H. Osborn, Director MAKING a report of this kind is like describing a department store, for our work covers many departments. We have a rental bureau, travel bureau, transient, welfare and employment bureaus, and an information bureau in a very literal sense. We have to think fast to make our inquirers feel that we earn these titles. We sometimes think that everything hard to catalogue is referred to our office, but we appreciate the compliment. We hear nice things constantly about the Church for supporting a place where its members may get the service they need. When the General Board of Relief Society started this office, we had two stakes and the California Mission to serve. Now, in addition to the mission, we have eight stakes, with fifty-four wards. The stakes closest to the office get the most use out of it because distance and transportation have to be considered. In the beginning, we were primarily interested in welfare work. At that time, public assistance was practically a new thing to our California members; relief, if any, had been from the Church. When the depression hit us all; it took one person's full time directing people to the proper place for the assistance they were in need of and eligible for, and making contacts and appointments for them. Since the advent of the Church welfare movement, our members are gradually removing themselves from the public relief rolls, many of them finding work in the aircraft factories and through other employment; others are getting into Latter-day Saint industries and ward projects. Projects are springing up in all of the stakes, which are attracting attention outside of Church circles. At our monthly meetings, when the stakes report their plans and active projects, the growth in the welfare program in southern California is very apparent. We are all interested in the work, and since it has become better understood, it has grown more rapidly. When we opened the office in Los Angeles, we could see that our employment possibilities could be developed, and that employment was the answer to most of our welfare problems, Especially was this true SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT where couples were on the verge of a separation. Often their difficulties were patched up on the strength of a job, and other couples were brought together who were already living apart?in some instances the wife living with her folks or working in some home, and beginning to question the ability of her husband, when all he needed was a job and a little build-up. We have had many such cases during the years and have had pleasant experiences with employers who were glad to listen to reports of unusual cases and to give them work. Our office is well known in industrial, mercantile and manufacturing districts. We have a fine relationship with many of them. We are often asked, "How do you get your jobs and how does the employer hear of you?" The most plausible answer is that someone in their employ is a member of the Church and has given such outstanding service that they want other members. Also, one tells another that we operate without a charge to applicants, and they like the idea of unemployed people not having to pay for job-finding service. Then again, members of our Church have a good reputation in California for being sober and industrious, and their recommendations of other members have weight when there are vacancies to be filled. We are often told by business men that their best employees are our Church members. Latter-day Saint transients from the inter-mountain states, and from all over the country, find the office a good place from which to start. They may need a place to live, or work; sometimes they are without funds, and immediate employment is necessary; or we may have to supply them with food, lodging, or carfare to reach relatives. The Church provides us with a fund to be used for that purpose. The welfare workers on the stake Relief Society boards are a great help to us. We call the stake worker when visits have to be made. She then reports her findings in the home she has visited and makes recommendations, and we work together in the interest of our families. We think we are especially fortunate in being able to find work for many of our transients.