Annual Report?1940
Presented at Relief Society General Conference, Officers' Meeting, April 2, 1941
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
FIRST, I shall make reference to those figures showing changes from 1939 which reflect to some extent the effect of procedural changes recommended by the General Board last year. The number of meetings held in the wards decreased slightly (220) to 71,117, as a result of the change in the educational year from nine to eight months, announced in April, 1940. The full effect of the change will not be apparent until the 1941 report is compiled, for the reason that it was previously optional with stakes as to whether their educational work began in September and ended in May, or began in October and ended in June. Only those which formerly began in September account for the decrease in this year's report. The number of stake board meetings also declined in 1940, being reduced by 151 or 6 percent, to 2,315, probably as a result of the recommendation made last October that stake board meetings be limited to two meetings a month. The effect of this recommendation will also be more evident in the 1941 report, since it could be applied last year only to the fourth quarter of the year. These steps toward simplification, in accordance with the advice of the General Authorities, while resulting in only a few hundred less meetings during the fourth quarter of the year 1940, nevertheless relieved thousands of women for several afternoons, and will have an
426
even greater aggregate effect during the remaining five months of the 1940-41 season which were not included in the 1940 report. Another decrease from the year 1939 is noted in expenditures for health and welfare work (other than direct home assistance), which dropped 16 percent to $31,920.93 because of the reduction of 24 percent to $11,925.84 in interest on the wheat trust fund?heretofore the principal source of revenue for this work.
IN response to our request, most stakes and missions submitted along with their annual financial and statistical reports, narrative statements of their activities during 1940. We are very grateful to you for the excellent summaries which you and your wards prepared for us. They lend greater significance to the financial and statistical data submitted in the regular report forms, and give us greater appreciation of your varied activities, of your ingenuity and resourcefulness, your service to your bishops and your communities. Your activities are so varied and so extensive that it is difficult to compress even a brief summary of them into the space of this report. In reviewing these reports, I was impressed by the evidence which they present that the local Relief Societies are, first of all, carrying forward the objectives of the Society stated at the time of its organization
ANNUAL REPORT?1940
99 years ago. I was also impressed by the fact that there is still need in all our communities, irrespective of their extensive and varied geographical distribution, for the same helpful, friendly, sympathetic services as those performed by the women of Nauvoo at the inception of the Society. Although begun so long ago, at a time when there were no patterns and precedents in organizations for women, no experiences upon which to draw in establishing and conducting a workable society for women, it is indicative of its inspired inception that the purposes of the original organization are still the principal concern of all Relief Societies today, wherever located. In adhering to its initial assignment, the Society has not clung to customs and functions for which there is no need today, but it has adapted its human services to a changing era, risen to meet new needs, expanded its program, and endeavored always to improve the methods by which it carries forward its timeless objectives.
A FEW excerpts from stake, ward, and mission reports, compared with others from the Nauvoo records, will serve to bear out these statements and also to give a panorama of Relief Society at work. Weekly meetings were inaugurated in the first days of the Society at Nauvoo; last year more than 71,000 weekly meetings were held in the various wards, except during the summer months. A charity fund, derived from contributions of members and others, was started at the organization meeting in 1842; contributions and other receipts for charity in 1940 amounted to $76,844.91.
427
In 1843, a necessity committee of 16 was appointed "to search out the poor and suffering, to call upon the rich for aid, and thus, as far as possible, relieve the wants of all." Last year, the visiting teachers made 1,188,462 visits to the homes of Latter-day Saint families, nearly 60,000 more calls than were recorded in 1939. During the first year of operation, the Relief Society expended for the relief of the poor, $306.48; in 1940, a total of $95,187.12 was disbursed for charitable purposes. In the fall of 1843, the Relief Society women of Nauvoo initiated sewing service for those in need, assembling materials and making bedding and clothing to be "given to such as are suffering cold and nakedness." Last year, the regular monthly sewing meetings held throughout the organization carried forward a larger sewing program than usual in order to make bedding and clothing for distribution through the Church welfare program, as well as for issuance by the Society. Compare the similarity of the proposal in 1843 that the Society "get together materials for the Saints for bedding that they might not suffer" with the 1940 project for better beds and bedding conducted on a "help one another" plan in an Arizona stake, with the hundreds of quilts made by ward Relief Societies throughout the Church, and with the recent request of the Relief Societies in the Brazilian Mission for information on mattress-making so that the bedding facilities of their members might be improved. Sewing for the needy is indeed a major activity of the Relief Society of today, as it was in Nauvoo. The early minutes tell us that in
428
addition to caring for the needy and destitute, the women of the first Relief Society turned their efforts toward the raising of funds for the temple which was then being built in Nauvoo. In the reports submitted for 1940 are numerous examples of funds raised by Relief Societies in various ingenious ways in the interest of the erection of ward chapels and stake houses, and even in the purchase of lots on which ward buildings are to be placed. They have raised funds to help buy chairs and benches for their chapels, and, as an example of the geographical spread of similar activities, I mention that a ward Relief Society in Salt Lake City, and one in the far-away Argentine Mission each assisted its ward to buy an organ. The Nauvoo Relief Society as an organization offered to weave and sew clothing for the temple workmen, most of whom were giving volunteer service, and they also donated groceries for their families. The 1940 reports include many instances of the Relief Society preparing and serving food to men donating labor in the erection of chapels, in the beautification of Church grounds, and in some types of welfare projects.
IN fulfilling its chief purpose?"to seek out and relieve the distressed," the women of Nauvoo encountered problems which are familiar to every Relief Society president today. Some of the narrative reports sent in by wards for 1940 tell of services similar to those recorded in the Nauvoo minutes of the Society. The following excerpts from the 1940 report of one small-town ward Relief Society in Utah indicate the services of a typical ward
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE, 1941
Relief Society?a transient family in desperate need and with many problems settled in the community, care was provided for a maternity case, hospital care for a case of appendicitis, an aged, sick man was visited, the bishop requested a visit to learn what assistance might be given the family of a man who had been shot, care was given by the members of the Society during the illness of a woman, a tonsillectomy for a little boy was arranged, comfort and assistance was given in connection with at least ten funerals in the community, and the Society assisted the bishop in providing and distributing cheer baskets at Christmas time. In addition to these welfare activities, the conduct of the regular weekly meetings, the study of the outlined educational courses, and the work of the visiting teachers, this Society also held a meeting at the home of each of its aged, homebound members in recognition of their birthdays, bought material and made draperies for the ward Relief Society room, prepared and sold refreshments at a ward party to raise money for the stake tabernacle, made a survey in the interest of the Church campaign against the use of alcohol and tobacco, assisted in the Church beautification program, held a ward Relief Society conference, attended special meetings called by the bishop to discuss ward problems, attended the annual stake Relief Society conference, gave a party for retiring officers when the ward Relief Society was reorganized, sent representatives to a stake music course, bought eighteen of the new Relief Society Song Books, held monthly officers' meetings, provided a trio to sing in the temple on stake Relief Society
ANNUAL REPORT?1940
temple day, made nearly 100 special visits to the sick and homebound, annual visits to all members in the ward were made by the presidency, and the women contributed, during the year, nearly 600 hours in making 15 quilts. This statement of activities in one ward, multiplied by the 2,132 local Relief Societies, would give a fair indication of the extent of services rendered by the Society during 1940. Several instances were reported where ward Relief Societies held special sewing days for motherless families and for families who had lost all their belongings by fire.
IN addition to activities such as these, many special programs and projects are being conducted for the furtherance of individual and community welfare. In many instances, these special services are carried forward on a stake basis, with pooled funds from the various wards of the stake. Nineteen years ago, the General Board recommended, at its April general conference in 1922, that the interest on the recently centralized wheat trust fund be used for health work, with emphasis on maternity care and child welfare. Your narrative reports for 1940 give indication of the extensiveness of the maternal and child-health work which you are doing. A few examples will serve to illustrate this activity. One stake Relief Society has conducted a clinic for pre-school children regularly twice a month since 1922, and has successfully conducted a first-class maternity hospital since 1924; several stakes give hospital sewing service in exchange for free hospital beds for the needy; one stake used its wheat interest last year to refill its medical kits and to continue the
429
hospital and medical contracts in a group insurance plan under which it may have needy cases cared for each year; another stake without a wheat fund participated in a May health-fund drive for a dental project, and paid one-third of the cost of dental work for nearly 700 children and adults. Numerous stakes report cooperation with public health and nursing services in the examination of children at clinics, and the expenditure of wheat interest for doing follow-up corrective health work for children whose families cannot pay for the necessary care. Many wards and stakes are spending their wheat interest to provide care for maternity cases, for needed operations for mothers and children, for dental work, tonsillectomies, eye glasses, false teeth, surgical appliances, layettes, eye operations, for the employment of housekeepers and nurses in cases of illness, for medicine and cod-liver oil, for maternity bundles, containing supplies and equipment for home delivery, and for cooperation with other community agencies in providing such services as hot school lunches and immunization against disease. The Relief Societies have also done considerable health education work, not only through the medium of the nutrition lessons studied monthly by most organizations during the past three years, but also by inviting in for lectures and demonstrations public-health nurses, dentists, opticians, and physicians.
BESIDES their activities in their local Relief Societies, members of the Society throughout the Church have responded whole-
430
heartedly to calls for service in the interest of the Church welfare program, assisting in both stake and regional welfare centers, and in their own wards, in the collection and conditioning of great quantities of used clothing, in the making of hundreds of quilts and other articles of bedding, the weaving of rugs, the production of thousands of pieces of new clothing for men, women, and children, the canning and drying of a tremendous amount of fruits and vegetables. Other stakes have helped to raise funds to meet Church welfare assignments in the form of cash. These activities in the interest of the Church welfare program are not reflected in the financial records of the Relief Society, which show a total disbursement from general, stake, ward, and mission Relief Society funds for the year 1940 of $405,319.06, an increase of 8 percent or $30,785.74 over 1939. In addition to these extensive and major services, many members of the Society throughout the Church found time to appear in choruses of Singing Mothers. Many Societies held special demonstrations and exhibits of their handwork, conducted flower shows, arranged for special lectures, sponsored temple excursions, provided temple suits for the use of young couples, baptismal suits and towels, linen for the sacrament service, presented radio programs, cooperated extensively in the Church beautification project in activities ranging from the planting of shrubs and flowers for the chapel grounds to the complete renovation of Relief Society halls and of homes of widows and other dependent families. They also cooperated with the Church Campaign Committee on
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE, 1941
the non-use of alcohol and tobacco, distributing thousands of pamphlets, contacting school officials, and placing law observance placards in business houses. During the year, Relief Society workers increased the membership of the organization by 4,922 members, devising various plans for stimulating interest in the values of the organization and enlisting new members, and also increased attendance opportunities for the members by providing nurseries at the meeting places where young mothers might leave their small children while in meeting, and transportation for older women otherwise unable to attend. They also increased the subscription list of the Relief Society Magazine by more than 5,000 subscriptions, bringing the total circulation to more than 50,000. Some Societies have entered subscriptions for their local public libraries, others have provided subscriptions for all missionaries from their wards, have maintained penny boxes and collected funds in other ways which are used for Magazine subscriptions for those unable to pay, and at least one ward accepted produce from its members in payment for Magazine subscriptions. Many Relief Societies have completed files of all bound volumes of the Magazine, and some Societies have had their book collections placed in Relief Society sections of the local public libraries. Perhaps the approach of the centennial, with the interest which it has centered in Relief Society beginnings and other historical material, has stimulated the renewed interest of local organizations in their Relief Society histories. Many
ANNUAL REPORT?1940
have written summaries covering the period since the organization of Societies in their local communities, including the town where President Lyman was born, where Relief Society history dates back to 1856. Some of these histories are supplemented by scrapbooks containing life histories of the elderly members of the Society, newspaper and magazine clippings, et cetera. There seems to be no limit to the ingenuity of Relief Society women, who capitalize on every opportunity for raising funds for the conduct of their own local Societies, for the Church welfare program, for assisting their bishops with ward buildings, and for charitable purposes. They have composed and produced pageants and plays, conducted food sales, sewed carpet rags, made and sold rugs and other articles; they have collected and sold soap labels and old newspapers in order to buy the new Relief Society Song Book; they have given dinners, bazaars and carnivals, and one progressive ward compiled a cook book, and has sold nearly the entire edition of 1,000 copies at $1.00 per book, in order to procure funds for their new ward chapel.
MANY Relief Societies accomplish their work in the face of obstacles such as distance, poor roads, lack of transportation, and adverse weather conditions. The example of one little ward in Idaho is typical of
431
many others?"many of the women do not drive cars, and they walk miles through many kinds of weather to attend to their Relief Society duties. For many years past they have recorded 100 percent visiting teaching. They have 28 families in their ward, and 28 members enrolled in the Relief Society. This year they have 34 subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine." As an example of what the association in Relief Society meetings means to the members, I have selected the report of a small branch in the East. At the beginning of last year, the officers were discouraged because of the small attendance at the meetings and the apparent lack of interest, and decided it was not worth the effort to continue the meetings. However, they found that they missed the meetings so much that they decided to resume them last October, even though only one or two members attended. By the end of December they had pieced two baby quilts to be given wherever most needed, and report that they are happy in their work and are holding meetings regularly. Their report ends with these significant words: "As the year closes we look back with thankful hearts for the little good we have accomplished and the much good we have received."
(For report of membership, see Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, pp. 314-324.)
RELIEF SOCIETY of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints