THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard _ Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - = = = - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - = = - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - a / Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 36 MAY 1949 No. 5 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Our Responsibility to Inactive Members by Velma N. Simonsen 291 Civil Liberty Today by G. Homer Durham 299 American Cancer Society Volunteers by Bertha Hare Long 305 Planning the Work Meetings by Leone G. Layton 307FICTIONA Pattern for Christine by Dorothy J. Roberts 294 You Might Have Waited by Fay Tarlock 302 Joanna—Chapter 5 by Margery S. Stewart 312GENERAL FEATURESSixty Years Ago 308 Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 309 Editorial: "Not in the Abundance of the Things Which He Possesseth" by Marianne C. Sharp 310 Magazine Subscriptions for 1948 by Marianne C. Sharp 320 The Magazine Honor Roll for 1948 324 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Bazaars, Socials, and Other Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 345 From Near and Far 360FEATURES FOR THE HOMELuncheon Cloths for the Making by Rachel K. Laurgaard 316 Braided Rugs—New-Fashioned by Drucilla S. Howard 317 Table Settings and Flower Arrangements: Entertaining the Bride by Mary Grant Judd 318 Handle With Gloves by Ivie H. Jones 344POETRYThis Happy Land—Frontispiece by Nyal W. Anderson 289 Mothers of Destiny by Christie Lund Coles 293 May Day by Ruth Harwood 293 Pansy Faces by Zara Sabin 298 Formula by Anna Prince Redd 306 Released to Spring by C. Cameron Johns 311 Midas and the Five Senses by Eva Willes Wangsgaard 311 Tears First Dried by Jeanette P. Parry 311 Spring Planting by LeRoy Burke Meagher 317 Dawn by Evelyn Fjeldsted 317 Rainbow Land by Marvin Jones 344

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Kenew prompt! Y so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 36, NO. 5 MAY 1949 Shis Happy Land Nyal W. Anderson I looked across the richness of a world of wheat That lay a sun-drenched patchwork in the heat, Beheld an opaque blueness in the sky And listened as archaic oaks began to sigh Like patriarchs against the wind. I stood and watched as sultry summer fled With but a backward tilting of her head To shake the emerald oak leaves from her hair As autumn caught them changing, pair by pair, Into a scarlet tambourine. I watched as fields were stripped of harvest gold, And, stretching out my arms that I might hold The waning beauty of this magic land, I found instead a snowflake in my hand That melted in the wind. Cold blew the herald winds on trumpets white As winter kidnapped autumn in the night, And cloaking her within his ermine stole, Entombed the gypsy maiden's soul Within his glittering diadem. And then across the silvered silence of the land I saw a thousand sunlit bridges spanned, And laughed, defiant, when the sapphired king Threw down his melting crown to spring, A river in the wind. And as I watched her, lilac-scented, fair, Weave violets and crocus in her verdant hair, I once again outstretched each empty hand That I might, always, so embrace this happy land Beneath the wind. {Note: This poem was awarded first place in a contest conducted in the winter quarter 1949 by the Wye Magazine, Brigham Young University literary publication, and is reprinted by permission.—Ed.] The Cover: ''Candles of Our Lord'"' (Yucca whipplei), Photograph by Josef Muench. Our Responsibility to Inactive Members Counselor Velma N. Simonsen [Address delivered at the annual general Relief Society conference in the Tabernacle on Thursday afternoon, September 30, 1948.| HIS is one of the great mo ments of my life to stand in this historic building and, before this great body of Relief Society sisters, bear my testimony to the truthfulness of the gospel and to the blessings of the Relief Society work to the women of the Church, and to the women of the whole world who will accept of its blessings and its opportunities. When Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society he said: "I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth." Later on he said if the women would live up to their privileges that the angels could not be restrained from being their associates. When he turned the key he opened the door for such a flood of blessings to flow down upon womankind that it ls beyond our powet to comprehend the greatness of those blessings. There is a French quotation that says: 'Noblesse oblige," which might be expressed, "where much is given, much is €Xpected." Yesterday, and especially this morning, we have heard much of the accomplishments of women, and our hearts have rejoiced in this accomplishment. We have given much, but I believe that we have not yet lived up completely to out privileges, that. We have not yet reached the limit of our possibilities, and especially of the possibilities of bringing spiritual awakening to our inactive sisters. One of the charges which the Prophet gave the society later on was to strengthen the communities, and how better can we strengthen out communities than to bring spirituality to the hearts of the mothers im our communities? One of the great est needs in the whole world today | is the need of spirituality. It can be truly said that in the world of science and material things, nevet before has man aimed so_ high, planned so profoundly, or achieved of our forefathers are commonplace realities to never before have been less sure of themselves. Never has there been a been so much cators, Our scientists, Our our own prophets tell us that if the world is to endure at all it must do so by spiritual power. Page 291 292 So, if there is one Latter-day Saint woman in our community who is not receiving of the Strength and the blessings of Relief Society and Relief Society activity in the rearing of her family, we have a responsibility toward her. And how can we Prepare ourselves and make sure that we are equal to this responsibility? First, we ourselves must be sure that we are living according to the standards of the gospel, that we have active membership, and active and loyal participation in the organizations of the Church. That is one of the great spiritual losses of today —lack of loyalty to worthy causes. How many parents do you know who are heartsick over the waywardness of their children? Most Latterday Saint parents are very anxious that their children be active in the Church and, yet, they fail to realize that what they themselves do and what they say, their activity and their disloyalty, are the gteatest factors in governing their children's lives. We of the older generation have had the teachings of faithful parents and grandparents to set an example for us. We may become inactive for a time and drift away, but those teachings have been so strong that they cannot be entirely lost, and we return. But what about these children who have seen only the actions of their disloyal parents? LAST summer President Smith, talking at an open-air meeting in our stake, told the story of a couple who had a fine Latter-day Saint background who became inactive and drifted away from the Church. In later life they realized RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 what they were missing, and came back, but they found that they could not interest their children 'in the Church or its ideals. And, as he said, they could repent, but they could not repent for their children. President Grant once said, "Wherever you find a woman who ls devoted to the work of the Lord, almost without exception you will find that her children are devoted to it." And Brother Ballard in one of his talks said, "If we live the gospel, there is no power in earth or in hell that can prevail against us. There IS NO power or influence greater than the teachings of a good woman." What a promise that is to us who are Tearing our families, and what an incentive to bring the gospel, a spiritual awakening, to our inactive sisters. We must be our sisters' keepers and do all in our power to keep alive in their hearts a love of the gospel and a desire to live by its principles. I hope that each of you sitting here today is saying in your heart, what can I do to encourage my sisters, the women whom | know in my ward who are inactive? Maybe you are saying, "I wish she would tell us what we can do to teawaken spirituality in the hearts of our inactive sisters." In this you may be like the old farmer down in Southern Utah who was approached by a book salesman who tried to interest him in buying a book, but he said, "Why, what do I want it for?" And the salesman replied: "It will teach you how to raise better cattle, how to raise better sheep and better Tops. It wil] teach 293 YOu how to be let us wh aT¢ Officers ang teachers 4 much better farmer," In the *ociety make the Olganization A C answered: "T don't want SO effective and our teaching SO vitthat bo I am not farming = dlancige Spiritual that, f We can et 600d as I know how now." the sisters to attend ust once, they wonder, are we Ng Our spirit will feel the Strength of he Organ ual farming as Well as know how? Ization a the hope and the jo Ou do not need to be told What to and the faith that active Patticipa- C as Well as you know h W, tio brings, and I am ure that you Will have When | this S€ Congrega Wwonderfy] SuCCess in bringing these lon, I thought th MACtive sisters Into actiy; j et us w * €ach repre.; sentative of 3 Ward or a un; Ing the great ]j blessing of | unit of Re lef Society st just one elief Society and the woman in her ommunity in Relief help that It gives ys In Tearing oy Oociety, the mbership Would be Children, ] "Ss show by our living Increased by Many thousands. If that we OT€ capable, that we every Organization increased Its ave Detter, that we 4 appier for membe ship Y Just one, that, in it. Clonging t Relief Society Let us self, would bring an MCcrease of show tha We feel that; lS an honor wenty-five hundre Sisters next and a Ptivilege to belong to Relief year, Society, Let us be enthusiastic in It is my Prayer that the Lorg will the work and about the Work, and bless ys with 4 €sire and With the ct us never 4; of {tying to interability to bring int activity our in est those who C not active And ACtIVE sisters a ee others of Destiny Christie Lund Coles Mothers of destiny.. You builded wel] bly YOU Wore the Cloak of 9) ethood; UF historje can neyer fully tel] ow Proudly and un ieldingly you stood N spite of aly watchi g th OU spoke the € wild Plum traces, re moving shuttles aking from fabri atterns of futu A Pattern for Christine Dorothy ]. Roberts clear her eyes. 'Two large tears rolled slowly down her smooth cheeks, leaving shining trails and forming two jagged pools on the golden oak of her mother's old pedal sewing machine. Other girls had fathers and mothers for times like this. Christine had never known her father, and now Mama, who had always been so close to her, was gone. The surgeon's knife, which was to have assured Mama, after her years of hardship, the quiet span of peace and abundance she deserved, had somehow failed in its not unaccustomed miracle. "So unnecessary," her brothers had mourmed, with added incentive for their medic studies. Even her brothers were too far away to be reached, Naaman and Don, two promising medical students at school in New York. A girl needed her mother at a time like this, with only a week to go. The tiny garment under the machine needle swam in the mottled sunlight, till she could not distinguish seam from placket. Like a jigsaw puzzle, the pieces still refused to fit, though she had worked so long that the shadow of the tall elm had crept across the lawn and now dappled the dimity before her. A sheet of pattern directions still lay, unfolded, on the table beside her. She squeezed the tears from her eyes again. Only, this time, she looked up at the calendar on the side wall. Its young Madonna cuddled an angelic, pink-frocked child. Below, the page said, June Page 294 (- ra oe blinked hard to 1920, in broad, black print. The days were all crossed off through the 11th. The 19th was outlined with a neat, blue ink line, carefully drawn around the date. 'This was marked over with a bold, red penciled circle, irregularly shaded in ted. At the bottom of the page, an amateurs hand had pnnted, Herm. The calendar, too, wavered before her eyes, being replaced by the picture of Dave, her young husband, booming, "That little blue line? There's nothing blue about it. Why, honey, it's a red-letter day, biggest in a lifetime! Our first!" And he had boldly used his red pencil. "But what'll we call it? Can't be just It; it's part of the family." "Oh, Dave, it's got to be a Her or a Him." "Her or Him Her, Him Herm! That's what we'll call it, Herm. Till the nineteenth of June, then it can be—" "Herman Dave" Christine joined in his enthusiasm. "Or Hermione Chnistine." He picked her up in strong, young arms and laid her gently on the couch, then returned to the calendar and printed Herm, at the bottom of the page. Some of the bitterness spilled out of Christine in two more tears. "Oh, Mama, Mama!" 'The small garment before her blurred out of all recognition, and with it the years dissolved, twelve of them. Eee & GHE was seven, Donnie five, Naaman eight, and Mama—oh, A PATTERN FOR CHRISTINE Mama was sweet and gay and kind and ageless. 'They were on the long back porch of their small home in the kindly, country town. The old washer sang rhythmically, "Kerbump-sp-lash, ker-bump-sp-lash," as Naaman swung the lever back and forth, back and forth. Donnie, standing on a crude homemade stool, clung tenaciously to the lever handle, below Naaman's hands. "What makes you so ambitious?" asked Naaman, scowling at Donnie's persistence. "I want to help, too shrilled his reply. Mama swirled more bluing balls through the rinsing water of the tubs between Christine and _ her, then grasped the handle of the old wringer, fastened to the washing bench. She turned slowly, as Christine fed the clothes through from the first tub. "Oh, Mama, Mrs. Boyne has such pretty pillowslips. Look at this A spray of lilacs grew above the hemline of the slip she held up. "It's nice to be handy with the needle," said Mama. "Things like that can grow out of idle afternoons and sitting, of an evening. I'm going to start you on that little piece with the French knots the first night I get caught up with my ironing." A sputtering noise came from the kitchen as Mama wrung the last piece through. "The boiler!" She ran to the stove. "Naaman, dear, please help Mama out with the boiler." With Naaman gone, the dasher, under Donnie's hand alone, almost ceased to turn. Mama and Naaman set the boiler on the porch. Mama lifted the clothes out with " Donnie 295 a long stick, delightedly. "They are white today. 'That last batch of soap we made was the nght recipe, at last." "After they're blued, they look pretty as shadows on the snow," Christine observed. "They're beautiful," Mama enthusiastically agreed. The washer was rhythmically splashing again. One basketful was ready to hang. "Mama," Naaman glared down at the top of Donnie's head, and rolled his eyes upward suggestively. Mama nodded, and called to him, "Donnie, would you like to be a man and help Mama hang?" Donnie left the washer and skipped over to her. "Let me wear the clothespins." She tied the faded embroidered bag around his chest. He reached into the big, bulging pockets and handed her the pins. Christine could hear the spank of the clothes as Mama shook them out smooth. The alarm clock on the bench rang. Christine shut it off. "T'wenty minutes, Naaman. 'There's only one washerful left." "Lucky day! My arm's stiff." "Well, I'll turn the wringer while you feed." "Say, Chris, I've got a new hiding place for tonight when we play Run, Sheep, Run." "You couldn't have. Tell me." "Can't. The captain might not choose us on the same side. But I've got it all figured out." "Now just the socks." Christine gingerly picked up the socks, one at a time, in two fingers, and dropped them into the machine. "Well, Mrs. Boyne is all cleaned up," announced Naaman, and flung 296 himself into the shade of the apple tree at the corner of the porch. "All clean," echoed Donnie, doing the same. Christine rested in the swing, her feet dangling on the cracked ce ment. 'The quiet of their little world and the coolness of the shade enveloped her in the old peace again. Mama soon came out with a basket of clean, ironed clothes. A dish towel was spread across the top and tucked in at the sides. "Whose is that load, Mama?" "Sister Nolte's. And here, Naaman, put Sister Nolte's dollar in this little purse when she pays you, and be sure to snap it closed before you put it into your pocket." Then she brought a plate with bread and jam, three pieces. "And here is a slice each, with my new pottawatomie jam on, for my workmen." "I want the white piece," shouted Donnie, helping himself to the top slice. Naaman and Christine put the basket on Naaman's worn wagon, Naaman pulling, and Christine holding the basket steady. When Christine looked back, Donnie was giving Mama a hug. He had the slice in one hand, and the long willow for driving the town cows home from the pasture, in the other. She guessed it was time for Donnie to go; after all, it was a long way to the town pasture, and the shadows were long on the wide, unpaved road before them. She knew it made Donnie feel important to earn his bit that way. T seemed a long, warm trip to Sister Nolte's. "Hold the gate back farther, Christine, this load's wider than the basket." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 They turned the handle, shmilling the doorbell fastened on the middle of Sister Nolte's door. Sister Nolte opened it finally. A pleated white apron edged with lace circled her generous waistline over the maroon alpaca dress with the long sleeves and the immense skirts. Even in June she wore a small, thin, silk-brocaded black shawl around her shoulders. "Ah, you solla bairn. Come in, come in." She patted their heads and smoothed their hair, and helped put the basket on the hall floor. "Come in the parlor and sit." She opened the unused room and a musty odor drifted out. "We'll sit out under the umbrella tree and wait, Sister Nolte. It's cool out there." "All right, if you want. Right out with the money." They sank down under the drooping old tree, their backs against the trunk. Naaman flexed his pocket knife. He flipped it from his elbow, his shoulder, his head. It stood upright in the grass, vibrating. Christine searched the grass for a fourleafed clover. 'The door opened again; a round tray appeared with a large sugar bowl on it made of blue glass with little bubbles here and there, and a wide gold edge and handle. It was heaped with little white cubes of lump sugar. Sister Nolte followed. "A lilla to speece, maybe?" She hovered over them. She gave each a heavy, grooved, red glass tumbler. "It is juice from raspberries and currants, mixed." She pressed on them a plate of scalloped cookies with crystallized sugar on top. Pll be A PATTERN FOR CHRISTINE "Oh, thank you, Sister Nolte." "Now you eat.'"" She labored toward the house, calling her husband, "Lilla Chrestian, betta Chrestian!"' "What are the seeds in these cookies?" asked Naaman. "They always taste so funny." "She's from the Old Country, Naaman, and I guess she brought them from there. Funny tasting, though. I'm glad: Mama doesn't use them." Sister Nolte came out with a great package wrapped in papers. "The pig's head, freshly killed and cleaned. I am too gammel this year to take care of it. Maybe Mama can make head cheese? And some sausage; here is some sausage. You like sausage, Naaman?" "Oh, yes, oh, thank you Sister Nolte." "We had to kill early because of Maria's wedding. Oh, such a big wedding. Ly." "Sister Nolte, Mama is going to give you some of our crab apples for preserves." Christine knew the ways of Mama. "Your Mama iss. Bless Mama's big, brave heart." She touched the corner of her eye with her apron. "And the dollar. And for Donnie." She tucked Naaman's pocket full of cookies. Naaman snapped the dollar carefully in the purse and stowed it in his pocket. "Thank you, Sister Nolte, and goodbye." Naaman and Christine each put a knee in the empty wagon and coasted down the hill from the Nolte's. "Put on the brakes," cried Naaman at the base of the hill, dragging his foot. Your The whole town, near-— 297 "Here's where we spilled Donnie that day," giggled Christine. "And here's where we found the nickel to pacify him. Let's look in the dry ditch; maybe there's another one. I could use some of that candy." | Christine remembered the treat of spending the whole nickel. "One of these and two of those, no, three of those." They had pointed through the glass of the wondrous candy counter. "Oh, well, no luck today." Naaman climbed back to the wagon and pushed on across the street. Donnie came around the corner, limping slightly. He swished his willow and the last cow trotted two steps and ambled toward her own corral. "What happened to your foot, shrimp?" Donnie shied away from Naaman. "Nothing. It feels good." "Don't be scared. I've got something for you. A present." "Who from?" "From your best girl," Christine giggled. "Who? I haven't got any." "Guess," Christine commanded. "Trudy." Donnie dug the dust with his toes. "Donnie loves Trudy. Donnie loves Trudy," Naaman sang. "Now we know." Donnie raised the willow switch threateningly. "It's from Sister Nolte, Donnie. Give them to him, Naaman." Donnie tasted the cookies, disappointed. "They taste different." ATER, Mama prepared the supper soup. They knew what kind it would be. It was always the same. (Continued on page 356) Civil Liberty Today Elder G. Homer Durham Director, Institute of Government, University of Utah T is all too common nowadays | to take civil liberty for granted. Our forefathers could afford no such luxurious attitude. Most of the time, most of the people, in most of the world, have been slaves. Greek democracy at Athens was based on slavery. 'The Roman world knew little freedom so far as the majority of humankind was concerned. 'The nineteenth century, true, saw the expansion of civil liberty for significant, large groups of people, but chiefly in western Europe, the United States, and the British Dominions. Indentured servants and slavery in most western countries are now things of the past. Ownership of human beings has ceased to exist, generally, but new forms of control threaten the freedoms that flowered in the nineteenth century. In order that we of the twentieth century may have some appreciation of our general situation, we might consider the facts that in Virginia, in 1625, forty per cent of the population were indentured servants; that thirty-six per cent of the emigrants to Pennsylvania in the 1680's were bond slaves; that a Maryland statute of 1715 authorized not to exceed ten lashes "for any one offense'" committed by these indentured founders of our social structure! After a few years most of these servants became free, acquired property, and established themselves as significant members of society. Slavery, too, flourished in America until the Civil War, numbering, in 1700, about ten per cent of the population. Even among the humanitarian Quakers of Pennsylvania, the lot of the slave was not particularly happy, despite the fact that the leading figures of the abolition movement were eventually numbered among this group. A Pennsylvania statute of 1693 authorized any persons: To take up Negroes, male or female, whom they shall find gadding abroad on the first days of the week without a ticket from their master or mistress... And to take them to jail, there to remain that night, and that without meat or drink, and to cause them to be publicly whipped next morning with 39 lashes, well laid on their bare backs, at which their said master or mistress shall pay 15d. To the whipper (Curtis P. Nettels, The Roots of American Civilization, 1940, page 326). The First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States provides that: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. Together with the following nine amendments, this provision constitutes the Federal Bill of Rights. These amendments took effect December 15, 1791, some thirty months after the inauguration of George Washington under the new Constitution, framed in 1787, ratified in 1788, and put into effect in 1789. The establishment of American Federal union under a written Constitution in 1789 was itself a Page 299 enth Amen h, as a conse Virginia Company, the Proprietary charters conferred by the British Crown "pon the Calverts jn Mary. Land, the Penns in Pennsylvania, ing the sacred sphere of human liberty into which government shal] not enter, Incorporated into the Bill of Rights were the significant entirely g re-COpy of English experience. It js true, however, that the CIVIL LIBERTy TODAY Principle of € traced to m the a y to € post Office, interferes with Individual Orious Olution of 1688-8 lights, the Person has reco Tse to ordina made the Principles effective ang peal Bill ce°' ial a Ay F itis Bes available for embodiment ao iie Statds found else here in the Federaj Written Constitution Peculiar to onstitut; ME€rican €xperien d States This System of Protections, jp Tights of Personal liberty May be S Lan Constitut Classified under two headings: Cdera Onstitution, embraces the following substantive d procedur. 1. Substantive (in the Words of Profes. Al tights: Sors Oge and Ray), those "pe taining to the fact and essence of freedom," The Substantive Suarantees Include 2 Procedural, "Te ating to the methods 7. 'mmunity from Slavery and Mvolun Y Which free om is Protected," lary servitude. 2. Freedom of Teligion Substantive nights often emerge 3. Freedom ¢ speech and presg ust. Eve if Witten, as In the 4 Aight of assemb] nd petition Soviet stitution, ubstantive 5- Right to keep and 5 ar arms Tights are aningless Nless ac 6. Equal Peon of pins ue 7- The restric n Teasonable o ~ompanied by Procedural rights, It fenses to a Narrow, "onstitutionally fixed IS the glory 6 Anglo-American libmarin erty that our ¢ Nstitutional Ja not mee 1 only contains, } gen erally has od; pe Puncipa Procedura euarantees jn anded, -, sua: ane suarantees ae - The forbidding Of bills of attaindey ve ng. ( Punishment } Politica] legislation With The net Tesult, in the United out judicial] trial) States, Is that h Individual citizen lS surrounded 2. Forbidding of Wi €€ layers of (criminal ] lcgal-constitutional | &X Post facto laws Medies tg previous] -5 Maintain his liberty: €gislation €nacted after the Y-Supposed innocent act was committed ) 3- Guarantee Judicial] Process by 1. If interfered wisp by another Indigrand jury Indictment vidual or Private gtoup, he as the rem. 4 The Writ of habeas Corpus edies of he ordin law, in both Feq 5 al by Jury.; eral and State court depe ding on the rotection 'of Privacy from unreas nature of the cas onable Searches and S€iZures 2. If Interfere th by "UC process of law whenever life, liberty, oy Property are aff Y Other syb. Hard-won liberties, in- _ COrporated into Ameri nights, Plus those fea; tures of the Federal] [ CaN ConstityConstitution <2 Uonalism, rest the gr Social, eco. Ticularly 4p rteenth endment nomic, and Political advantages of 4 which "limit he power of the States nchly-endowed nation, [This article may be used Scien You Might Have Waited Fay Tarlock EEING Miss Tyndale again S was just as Nan Kenny had hoped it would be. Miss Tyndale was coming down the flagstone path from her garden, carrying a tin milk pan heaped with gooseberries, her straw hat tilted back from her perspiring forehead. "Well," beamed Miss Tyndale, her smile deepening the wrinkles in her pleasant face, "this is the best surprise I've had all summer, and look how you've caught me!" She hurriedly set the pan of gooseberries on the path and began smoothing her blue and white gingham apron in a deprecatory manner. "Don't take your apron off, please," Nan called as she came through the white picket gate, pushing her small daughter before her. "Tm going to help you pick the gooseberries." Nan laughed an amused laugh. "It's been so long since I've seen a gooseberry, I'll enjoy doing it." Gooseberries, she thought, had become fashionable. Indeed Miss 'Tyndale and her picket gate would make good copy for any garden magazine. Nan stood inside the gate, looking with love on Miss Tyndale's tall, spare, and still erect frame and on her face, beautiful in its intelligence and serenity. She's part of the earth, changeless as the seasons, Nan said to herself. Is it escaping the storms of matrimony that has given her this air of tranquility? No, I've known married people to possess the same thing. And think of Page 302 what some of the unmarried ones look like! Why, she was wondering anew as she started up the flagstone path towards Miss 'Tyndale, has she never married? Sometimes men have no. Sense. The two of them sat on the whiterailed porch. In front of them, and sloping towards the lake, lay the little town, its roofs almost obscured by the summer green. Outside the town were the orchards and fields, lush and rich with the promise of harvest. When a breeze stirred, Nan saw the silver shimmer of the lake beyond the fields. Back of them, and circling the valley, were the mountains, their peaks purple in the afternoon light. Winkie, Nan's toddling daughter, ran shouting on the lawn, stopping now and then to pick a Shasta daisy from the border. "It's beautiful, isn't it?" Miss Tyndale asked, more in worship than for confirmation. Her brown, gnarled fingers snapped off the stem and blossom ends of the berries even as she looked. "There's nothing like it back in New York is there?' She dared Nan to contradict her. "Nothing," sighed Nan blissfully. "That's why I have to come back every chance I get. I wanted to see this as badly as I wanted to show off my daughter." "VE always felt the same way about this town, even when I was a child, not much older than YOU MIGHT HAVE WAITED Winkie," confided Miss Tyndale. She held up a plump gooseberry to the light and polished off a bit of mold with the corner of her blue and white apron. "And it didn't look the same either," she added with one of her deep chuckles. "I remember when I was about five, standing out in the yard in front of our log cabin. There were none of the shade trees and orchards you see now, just a lot of pigpens and corrals too close to the house. But I thought it was beautiful, the most beautiful place in the world, and that my heart would break if ever I had to leave it." She held up another gooseberry, admiring its green perfection. "I always think," she said slowly, "that more importance should be given to the gooseberry. With us it begins the cycle of the harvest." She gave Nan a beseeching smile. "I'll bet you're wondering how an old lady in her eighties has the temerity to be storing up the fruits of the earth." Cutting off Nan's denial, she went on, "Maybe I haven't sense enough to realize that I'm old. But when I stop preparing for the winter, I'm done for. As long as I can store up for gooseberry pies, I'm still part of the living." She scooped up another handful of gooseberries and swiftly snapped off the brown ends. Years before Miss Tyndale had once said, "The present is far too important to me to waste time dishing out the past." But today Nan was hungry for the past and for a more intimate understanding of Miss Tyndale. "You haven't always lived here on the land, have you?" she asked. "T haven't gone too far afield," 303 Miss Tyndale answered, her eyes still absorbing the summer beauty with pride of ownership. "I lived in Provo for a few years, and once I moved to Salt Lake to work in a shop—but that was before you were born." She snapped off another stem with sure fingers. "I've never wanted to live any place but here." "Didn't you mind, when you sold the old house?" Nan asked the question, hoping it was the right one. "Not a bit," Miss Tyndale assured her, "as long as I could live on part of the land. You know," she confessed, a bit of rue in her smile, "that as I get older I understand some things better. I do believe that I inherited the Englishman's passionate love for his land. None of my family, not even my father or my brothers born in England, had it as I do." <sTF you had been truly English you'd still be living in the old house," Nan said nodding to the big, white painted stone house set in a grove of trees a quarter of a mile away from the cottage. "No, I'm_ typically American," Miss Tyndale declared, a suspicion of conceit in her tone. "I like a raw new. Home with beautiful shining plumbing. But you should see what they've done with the old house." She waved a gooseberry in the air, C her eyes bright with interest. "They spent a fortune remodeling it so that it looks like a gentleman's estate. But me, I'm glad to be rid of the old fireplaces and big, cold upstairs." "Yes, you're thoroughly American," Nan teased her. "You have to 304 have everything electric and new." She looked through the open doorway to the familiar living room. It seemed unchanged from the last visit. On the floor were the rugs Miss Tyndale had hooked; the pioneermade secretary was still stuffed with New York Sunday Times; the bookcase with the glass doors shielded the books she wanted to read but seldom did. There was the serving table Miss Tyndale had made from a picture frame and the deep leather chair that had been her father's. Through the rear door Nan could see the electric refrigerator and stove, next to the drop-leaf table made of early Utah pine. "You're English," Nan decided, loath to leave the subject. "You're the reserved type." "Not reserved, shy," Miss Tyndale corrected her. "Why once when I was a child Mother sent me over to Mortenson's to borrow something, and do you know what I did?" Nan shook her head. "When I got into the house, they asked me to sit down. I sat down so frightened I forgot what I came for. At noon when they set the table for dinner they invited me to eat. I knew I should go home, but I didn't know how to refuse. After dinner I went back to my chair. I guess I'd be sitting there now if Mother hadn't sent an older brother after 97 me. Miss Tyndale's face was momentarily sad, as if after all these years the gaucheries of the child still troubled her. "I can't imagine your being that shy." Nan moved closer to share the same bowl for her cleaned berries. She felt close to Miss TynRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 dale in spirit and wondered if now was the moment to ask her the question she had long wanted answered. She was aware that the moment might not come again. EPIDN'T you, when you were a girl, ever want to leave this?" she extemporized, moving her hand in an all-inclusive gesture. "I can understand now why it would satisfy, but when I was younger it didn't mean a thing." Miss 'Tyndale's hands were still for the first time, her voice very quiet as she said, ""That's one of the reasons I've always admired you, Nan. You weren't afraid to go away on your own. You made a place for yourself and found what you wanted in a strange world. Now, look what you've got." She gestured towards Winkie, busily engaged in stripping a hollyhock. "Of course I wanted to go," she replied, coming back to Nan's question, leaving the gooseberries still idle in her lap, "but I didn't know how to do it." "You should have married someone who would take you away." Nan did her best to give her words a casual sound. "It would have been easy then." Resuming her work, Miss Tyndale smiled. "I don't believe I ever thought of it like that. Anyway, I'd have had to come back sooner or later." She settled comfortably back in her chair and indulged in another of her deep chuckles, "Come to think of it, I might have gone away. I almost had a chance." It was hard for Nan to keep from crowding the edge of her chair. (Continued on page 353) American Cancer Society Volunteers Bertha Hare Long, National Deputy Commander HEN I visited the national headquarters of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, | was tremendously impressed with the program of volunteer service which is carried on from year to year by this group of consecrated women. I felt almost as if I were walking on holy ground when I walked through the large board meeting room and viewed the oil portraits of the women who had started and carried forward this service to humanity, as it is still being done. They were women of courage and vision and as each has handed the torch of leadership on to her followers, the same inspiration has been carried along, so that it touches the spirit of even a visitor such as I was. And so I said to myself, what can I tell these women of volunteer services? It is for me rather to learn from them. However, it is true that the Field Army of the American Cancer Society has a splendid record of service to humanity also, and for reasons of information, it is with pleasure that I set down a few of these accomplishments. The American Cancer Society was organized in 1913 by doctors and scientists, with a few laymen, who, motivated by the same unselfish spirit of the great doctors of our nation, wanted to make a concerted effort against the scourge of cancer. 'They began by surveys, pooling their knowledge, developing a program to increase medical facilities, and to further educate their profession in the nature of this disease. By 1936, they had a very good record of accomplishment, having developed facilities from about thirteen approved hospitals to over 300 approved hospitals and clinics. The great need now was to bring the public up-to-date on the knowledge and information which had been approved by the American Medical Association. 'There was no money for an educational program. The women of the nation were called upon to organize the Field Army for the purpose of educating the public. It was almost a hopeless task, for ignorance, superstition, and fear filled the minds of many people until few were even willing to listen to the program' of education or to read the available literature. The accomplishment of these women of courage, vision, and energy should be a matter of pride to all women. In ten years time, the attitude of the public toward the disease has changed greatly. Today magazines, newspapers, radio stations, etc., are co-operating to get the message to Mr. And Mrs. Average Citizen that "early cancer may be cured, through surgery, X-ray, radium;" to teach them the necessity of complete, periodic health examinations and to go to their family physician at once when any of the "seven danger signals" Page 305 This jg a notable feat in the field f Cati e that we SUN our work O tch that oy; Nation has ever known jg seekin Tecent SUIVEy Te the Causes of Cancer, new Means of veals that Only half of the Popula- 'A8NOsing jt, and additional] meth 10n of M€nca can 'Me a single o S of Curing it, Jy Is g Program early symptom of Cancer, that anyone May be proud to sup. Port, SOON the need for SeIvice to the I cannot Conclude thig article cancer patient became manifest. Without listing the cancer danger t was learned that a bedridden cansignals which "veryone sho Id mem Cer patient Tequires an "Normous _ orize. They May not mean that amount of dressings jn Order to be cancer 'S Present, but any one of Comfortable; to by €s€ dressings _ em develo " ZO at once to your "Y May cost fifty do] "rs @ month physician for his advice Per patients a drain on the in- "Se symptoms that May mean come of almost any family. So the early Cancer are: cancer dressings Plogram was or an ized. Hun Teds of €S not heal, 2. Lump or thi Made and disor elsewh tributed Without Char ckening in the breast ere, 3- Any chan I a wart or mole &¢ by volun Persistent digest; teers, meeting a great need of the 4. Persisten — €rmina] | § Or discharge t was needed, h NY change in bowel habits, Field Arm has often Supplied; also Volunteer S€Ivice ha be | the American St grateful to O 4 Cancer patien} Is be. Ing nursed. CT S€rvices, " and we are hankful fo the Opporth, a Campaign for tunity that 'S Ours to als serve h unds has C conducted and at Manity in jts fight against a Vicious ast we have available substantia] "nemy of mank d, cance ee ae Anna Prince Redd There Is a knack to livin With Others oy alone: Be pliant as th € marrow, Ot brittle a S the bone. Planning the Work Meetings Leone G. Layton Member, General Board of Relief Society and Chairman, Work Meeting Committee ORK meeting leaders should begin planning their next season's (1949-50) work meeting program now. Each leader is aware of the needs and interests of the women with whom she is working and should, at this time, be able to make general plans for an appropriate program which will accomplish the purposes of the Rehef Society work meeting in her locality. Activity on this day should be planned with the following purposes in view: 1. To enable the women to give service in the Church Welfare Plan by assisting in filling the Welfare clothing budget assignment. 2. To give service to the ward Relief Society organization by participating in activities beneficial to the local society. 3- To foster and develop creative and homemaking skills. 4. To promote a feeling of friendly sociability within the group by working together in pleasant association. Each of these purposes should be considered fully in programming the day's activities in order that the greatest possible good may be gained from the meeting. Our first obligation on this day is to fill the Welfare clothing budget assignment. In doing this, we must be governed by the directions given us by the Welfare committee when the assignment is made. Let us plan to allow all the women an opportunity to participate in this service, that all may obtain the satisfaction and the development which come from so doing. Next, we should anticipate the local activities of our society for the year and include the preparation for these in our season's planning. If we contemplate a bazaar, let us plan ways to use this activity to forward the purposes of the work meeting. Through a bazaar we can interest our members and bring them into activity; we can recognize the skills of some of our older women and ask them to teach these skills to others; we can plan to use everyone along the lines of her aptitudes, interests, and skills. Special activities may be featured on various work meeting days, which will stimulate interest in homemaking and home beautification. The sewing course, which will be outlined in the July issue of the Magazine, may well be brought into the work meeting. Many of our mothers have need of this special instruction, and it may be given in such a manner as to interest the entire Relief Society group when it does not interfere with other planned activities. Fine quilting has become traditional in Relief Society. Let us plan to carry on this tradition by helping all to have an opportunity to learn and practice this skill. (Continued on page 352) Page 307 any can test; that no Place was €ver so - How eminently Proper that the h iment, 9 affection and of | the attributes d thr C Woman, and Is like a 5 | > and blend With the aZure of the N, and Tadiatin to t € extreme Point, Causing 4]] between One Point to the other. TH ET'S SEASON It has been aid, and truly, that ¢ rin S€ason. There Is q Peculiar fL Cshness j the e It Were, to Very centre Mands expresg; n Conference was held March 22d, at the, _ v'. Pomeroy Presiding, President C. I. Counselors ang Other brethren were Present; opened by singing and Prayer, unselor Sarah Russel] Spoke briefly. Felt that life was too short to; | feelings towards Other, | € can aSSist Others In C. —Susan Wilcox, any ways with Words of Secreta Page 308 acon Cay- Dutch grandmother, fifty-two years old, Mrs. Boissevain, has started in the Netherlands a movement known as the "National Skirt," which numbers 4000 women. It originated last September when women were depressed because they had "nothing to wear" to celebrate the Golden Jubilee of Queen Wilhelmina's reign. They make patchwork skirts from the "odds and ends" in their workbaskets. These symbolize "salvaging bits of the past and uniting them in a new future" of national progress and world-wide understanding. T the end of the last war, Dr. James R. McCain, for thirty years president of Agnes Scott College for Women, in Georgia, said that when future generations read our contemporary history, the headlines will be, not the two wars, but the women's revolution of the past fifty years. He feels that the results of women's business, professional, and political activities have been more harmful than good for society as a whole. He feels that women working when there are more applicants than jobs will bring down all wages. He blames the increase in juvenile delinquency and the decrease in birthrate on mothers' absence from home. It is the Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon homemakers who rear families, beautify cities with gardens, and keep churches alive. But he predicted that the tide will turn— that more women will prepare themselves to be expert home-makers. N interesting phase of the above problem is that some statistics on happy marriages indicate that the girl who has had business training and experience before or after marriage is a safer matrimonial risk in some respects than the young woman who has remained strictly at home. THE former Mildred McAfee, who was lieutenant-commander of women's reserves, U. S. N. R., during the last war, and who has been Mrs. Douglas Horton for about three years, recently resigned from her position as president of Wellesley College for women. She felt that her professional obligations were interfering with her being the kind of wife and homemaker she desired to be. ME: SARAH ANN A. GIBBONY, recently died in Duchesne, Utah, at the age of 101 years, six months, and twenty-five days. She had lived on seven different homesteads. Page 309 =) EDITORIAL ~oo VOL. 36 MAY 1949 NO. 5 'Viet in the Abundance of the Sj hin gs Which He Possesset}, Ss "*QHE wishes now she had never bought the things, They still have payments to make on their house, and she wishes she had fixed up her furniture, then she wouldn't be half-sick with Worty trying to pay for the new." The voice of the speaker sounded regretful as she related the imprudent Purchases of a friend., When the sky blooms in heavenly blue dotted white, diaphanous flowers, does the housewife walk into her own home and look with dissatisfied eyes at her furniture and floor coverings, drab and shabby from the winter's grime. Plints, and a new Tug to help make her living room come alive. Then, when her The picture js etched more sharply in her mind on succeeding days and, at length, results in a town and an Orgy of buying. For the first few days the housePage 310 wife thoroughly enjoys the new picture. Of Course, she was unable to match that blue exactly, and the green clashes a little. Tather startling at first still, the whole picture is satisfying to her. On the first of the month the postman delivers the bil]. Only after careful checking does she teluctantly concede that the adding machine totaled correctly. The monthly installment figure is, therefore, quite a bit higher than she had expected. But the housewife pushes the worry down in her mind and gives a fairly satisfied glance around her rooms in Partial justification, A few weeks later Johnny becomes ill and requires Many visits from the doctor. Just an unforeseen occurtence, the housewife thinks as she opens the doctor's bill, one that no one could anticipate and, anyway, Johnny is well again, By now the first bloom has gone from the new purchases, of oft-repeated Warnings, Lucy carried her glass | room and spilled it on the Tug in front of the fireplace. The cat also Wrought havoc on the new sofa by sharpening her claws on the upholstery of the arms. The installment Payments, however, do not become less, EDITORIAL Finally, the housewife is forced to face her worry and anxiety and acknowledge that she was unwise to have bought more than she could pay for. Instead of the gay and friendly atmosphere she had hoped to create, she looks at her home almost with dislike. But long after she reached this conclusion, she still continues to scrape together her installment money. And it was then that the harried housewife voiced to her friend 31] the remark, "I could have fixed up the old things and would not have been half-sick with worry trying to pay for my new things." The Savior remarked at one time, "for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth." 'The success of a homemaker does not depend on the newness nor costliness of possessions, neither does joy arise from imprudence and extravagance. M. C. S. Released to Spring C. Cameron Johns The earth is cushioned velvet to the tread And May has dressed her world in flowered lace; The gilding touch of sunshine overhead Makes miracles of all the commonplace. Even down the canyoned city street, Where stone and steel resist each growing thing, The little winds are blowing soft and sweet Releasing wintered spirits into spring. Midas and the Five Senses Lilacs After Rain Eva Willes Wangsgaard The spring returns the gold we lost In cups of daffodils, And golden lightbirds dip and rise Along the window sills. With gold to see and gold to touch Where water lilies float, And tinkling notes like nuggets tossed From every warbler's throat, A golden scent from hyacinths, And honey gold to taste, Five paths of gold lead to the heart. Come. Who would let it waste? Jeanette P. Parry Who has not loved the wild, sweet smell Of lilacs blooming after rain, Or walked a petal-covered path On fallen blossoms down the lane? So often I have picked bouquets, Dew-dripping, lavender, and white, And placed them in a pale blue bowl To lend their fragrance to the night. I have been far from haunts like these, Have stood in gardens fit for prayer, But still I hear the hum of bees And haunting perfume fills the air. Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 5 Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to support and care for. Courageously, she takes inventory of her meager resources and plans for the future. A neighbor gives her a sack of navy beans and Joanna decides to make Boston-baked beans for sale. Another neighbor, Abigail Smith, offers to help with ideas and transportation. From a slow and unpromising beginning they build a profitable business. Joanna rears her children with love and devotion and for Penny's fourteenth birthday she plans a special party. N leaden feet, Joanna went to () the door and opened it. She took a deep breath. "Darling," she said to Penny. She lifted her head. "My dears, I'm so glad you could come." "Hello, Mrs. Niels,' Connie said primly. Her mouth pursed as she sidled past Joanna into the room. Joanna saw the quick eyes inventory the kitchen range, the absurd decorations. "I'll have to leave early, Mother doesn't want me in this neighborhood after dark." "But we've lots of time until then." Joanna bustled about, taking their coats and scarves, saying whatever gay and welcoming thing popped into her head. The prayer beat in her throat, please... Please, for Penny's sake, let the party be good, not anything to mar her day, please. "Did you ever play "Witches'?" she asked them, pushing laughter through her stiff throat. "It's fun." She described it. Connie sat on the davenette and Page 312 smoothed her red velvet skirt. "I'd rather not. It sounds too childish." Joanna swallowed hard. "Very well. Let's play this one... Called 'Ghosts,' and if Connie doesn't like it, she can read'a book." She forced them into it, hiding the firmness under the banner of her laughter. She gave the gay prizes she had bought, with a flourish. Slowly, slowly, the ice melted and the girls came on her side. Laughter came spontaneously from young lips. After awhile Joanna could leave the room, go into the kitchen to put last-minute touches on the cakes and the ice cream. The shrieks and the clamor of excited voices were music to her ears. They ate their refreshments in an ecstatic silence. Joanna watched Penny's face. There was no cloud upon it, nothing to sully the clear joy of having her friends about her, of showing them off to her mother. But when the party was over and the young guests ready to depart, the clouds rose stormily again. Penny was helping Connie into the lovely coat. "Do come again, Connie. Come often." Connie's mouth pinched. "I'll try. But I'm afraid Mother will have a fit when she finds out where I've been." Joanna stuffed her hands into her apron pockets so they would not strike out at the pursed, pink mouth, the too-wise eyes that bade contemptuous farewell to the little room. Under her eyes, the decora- JOANNA tions, prepared at such a cost of time, grew pathetic, the slip cover faded and sagged. Joanna fought fiercely to bring back the gaiety. Don't you understand, she wanted to cry out, how precious a thing Penny's friendship is? The friendship of anyone who really loves you. What does it matter if they live in a tent, if they love you, they have value? Ruth, a black-haired echo of Connie, nodded her head. "But we really had fun," she said, in frank wonder. Joanna saw the darts had gone into Penny's heart. Her eyes darkened with pain. Joanna had the wild desire to step in front of her daughter, as if by so doing, she could take the pain into herself. She heard her own voice speaking, quickly, lightly, "I'm so glad you could all come. You see, we're moving into another neighborhood, and we might not be able to be together again." "Mother!" Penny lifted enraptured eyes. "You didn't tell me! When?" Joanna swallowed. "Very soon. It's to be a house on a hill, out of the smoke." Connie smoothed the sleeve of her coat. "That will be different. Mother will let me go up there." Joanna watched with the helpless amazement of the adult, as her daughter received this information with shrieks of joy. "Won't that be simply super! Just out of this world?" HEN the evening meal was over, Joanna sat enthroned among her children, while they gazed on her with adoration and awe. "You really mean it, Mother? 313 A big house! Room for everybody to have a room? Oh, Mother, it will be so wonderful." Joanna gulped and wondered if there was a place she could get with a down payment not to exceed three hundred dollars. ' "Tll have a room of my own," David said, "a place where I can study without the rest of you getting in my hair." "Your precious old books!" Sally was hostile. "What I want is a place to hang my pictures without everybody painting beards on them." She hugged Penny. "You can have your room, too, and write your poems in it." "Poems?" Joanna turned to Penny. 'The girl's face was scarlet. "Sally! Why did you have to tell?" She rose and ran toward the bedroom. ""They're awful! Awful!" "Poetry." Joanna caught her breath. But of course, she should have known, Penny would never be one to hoard beauty, it would pour out of her like light, into other people's lives. "Poetry..:. I'm so glad." Abigail came over after supper to help with the night's work. She listened eagerly to every detail of the party, pausing in her kneading to look at Joanna's face. She made Joanna think of a silver-haired girl, in her ruffled blue apron. 'There was something young and wistful in her listening. But when she heard about Connie, her outrage knew no bounds. "You should have told her to go home! 'That's what you should have done. The idea! 'The very idea! What's the world coming to?" 314 Joanna sliced apples into a pie shell. "I don't know. When I was little, a party was an event. We talked about it for months, before and after. I can't remember ever noticing a house, or taking inventory of the cost of things." "It's their mothers!" Abigail said shortly, "putting their own snobbish ideas into their daughters' heads." "I I told them we were moving into a new house." Joanna looked up at Abigail. "I had tox, "Humph," snorted Abigail, "so they defeated you, the brave Joanna, who hasn't been downed by hurricane or famine, going down like nine pins before a bunch of little girls. I thought you were going to buy some new equipment?" "T was,' Joanna said unhappily. "I was going to do so many things. I was going to buy a small bakery and start out with just breads and pastries... A real shop." Abigail blew a curl from her forehead. "Well, you can still do it. The children can just wait for their house." Joanna set her chin. "No. The children need a home. A real one. Penny will need one more and more. I can't bear to have her left out, or have less than the others. She has a right to things. Poetry. Just think of it, Abigail, she's writing poetry." Abigail said softly, "Well, 'm not surprised. I've often told my Henry. 'Henry,' I've said, 'there is one person whose mind I wouldn't be afraid to look into. Penny Niels' mind would be like a flower garden, that sweet, from the looks of her and the things she does for her mother, and the gentle way she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 talks! Just like a flower garden,' I told him." Joanna came around the table to hug Abigail's | plump — shoulders. "You see, we have to give her lovely things, a chance in life." Abigail patted Joanna's hand. "We'll do it, my dear." OANNA stood at the kitchen table, the next afternoon, wrapping fresh loaves of bread in wax paper; the pale October sun splashed warmth across her hands and on the kitchen table. A woodpecker swung on the lower branches of the apricot tree, just outside the window. Someone knocked at the front door. Joanna impatiently finished the bread she had started and went to answer it, not pleased to have visitors interrupt her busy day. She frowned at the tall, red-haired man who grinned at her from his great, lean height. "Mrs. Niels?" "Yes, but I " return his smile. "You're busy, I know I'm Kent Taylor, and I understood that you are in the market for a house." Joanna's mouth dropped gently. "But, good heavens! I just made up my mind yesterday." "T know," he said, "I read minds by television. You want a house on a hill." Joanna laughed, reluctantly. "I suppose you know how much, or little, rather, I can afford to pay down?" He shook his head. "I never inquire into my clients' private affairs, such as love, money, or pet peeves. May I come in?" He She did not JOANNA sniffed the air, "It smells like a small corner of heaven." Joanna, leading him into the kitchen, wished suddenly she was wearing her new, high-heeled shoes, instead of the brown, flat brogues, She watched his eyes light up when he saw the crusty brown loaves on She | said, hesitantly, "Would... Would you like a slice of fresh bread and some strawberry Jam?" His grin was quick and pleased. "Would I? I don't believe I've ever tasted fresh, homemade bread in all my life - Mother was a Career woman.... Real estate. She and my sister are Tunning the business together. I'm home on vacation so they put me to work." He took a deep bite out of the slice of bread and jam. Hi "Brother! Now J see what people mean. This isn't the first time I've tasted your products. We had some Boston-baked beans last night. My sister was telling me about you my niece, too. In fact it was our charming little niece who told us you were in the market for a house." "Your niece?" "Uh-huh, Connie, she was here to a birthday party." "Oh," said Joanna. He looked around "You need a shop." "IT need a house," Joanna said. She looked at him wonderingly, marveling at his quick tongue, the €normous enjoyment he seemed to derive from very simple things. She liked the tweed suit he wore, and the snap brim was like him, past its first youth, somewhat battered, but Possessing to a high degree, dash and charm, the room. 315 "IT have a house," he said, "or rather Mother has -.. Ona hill. En could I take you to see it?" "T''ve so much to do. A "This afternoon, at Say, twothirty?" Reluctantly, Joanna nodded. He rose and picked up his hat. He looked soberly down at Joanna. "Connie is a difficult child. I think this is the first nice thing she ever did for me." Startled, Joanna looked into his blunt, homely face. She saw laughter Starting from deep down in his hazel eyes. His mouth twitched a little at the corners. "Thank you for the bread and jam, She closed the front door behind him and went back to the kitchen. She began again to wrap the bread, and then suddenly went to the kitchen mirror and peered into it. Not changed from yesterday, and yet, there had been something when he looked at her a relief... As though he had hoped she would be attractive and was not disappointed. Joanna turned sharply away. What an_ idiot! At an utter idiot, to imagine such a thing. But when she dressed, after lunch, she tucked one of Penny's bright scarves into the collar of her gray suit. The red and yellow scarf brought color into her cheeks and a sparkle to her eyes. Joanna brushed out her hair, let it wave softly around her face. But when she heard his car stop before the house, she tore out the scarf and pinned her hair back into the accustomed roll. She looked again in the mir- 316 ror. 'The gray suit and the neat white blouse looked Quaker prim, but the color had not departed from her face, and her eyes mocked her with their shining. She went to open the door for him. She nodded briefly, "You're on time." "So are you, a rare and delightful RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 trait." He helped her into the shining car as though she were an object of great price and rare fragility. "I ordered the day especially for you." He waved an expansive hand to include the rich gold of the sunshine, the scarlet banners of maple trees, the blue haze on the mountains. (To be continued) >~<——- Luncheon Cloths for the Making Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson AVE you ever stood looking through the table of discarded samples and bolt ends which drapery and upholstery shops sell for a fraction of their original cost, and racked your brain for some excuse to buy a lovely square of printed linen or hand-blocked cotton? Tapestry pieces make good cushion covers, or, with a pair of handles— an attractive knitting bag. But what could one do with a yard or so of chintz? Make luncheon and breakfast cloths, of course! Permanent-finished chintzes, picture-printed crash, cotton twills, and linens are all washable, and can be had from the sample table in the loveliest of colors and designs. Hem or fringe a quaint piece of flowered chintz, set out your collection of antique glass and china, and see what a charming table you have laid. Use a gorgeous tropical print in tones to blend with your breakfast pottery. You will find that the plainest of everyday china looks like something special when set on a striking sample square from the drapery shop. Braided Rugs—New-Fashioned Drucilla S. Howard OR an easier and better way of making the old-fashioned braided rugs you will need a large feed-sack needle and some stout string or carpet warp. You should be able to buy a needle at any hardware store. The rags are braided in the usual way. When ready to begin putting the strips together, fold the braided strip the length you wish the center of the rug to be, and with the needle, threaded with string, take up a loop of the braided strands, first on one side and then on the other. Always insert needle from top side of rug. Take up each loop, drawing the string snugly under each time. When working around the ends of the rug, take up two loops on the outside strand, (one on the inside) as many times as necessary to make the tug lie flat. When you have used up the string in your needle, tie the new piece of string to the end you have been using and thread the needle again. 'The knot can be pulled under the loops until hidden. The string will not show if pulled up snugly each time a loop is taken up. If you use two strips of cloth of different lengths in each strand you braid, it will not be necessary to sew the ends together. Just fold the ends Y one strip inside the other. Also the needle works better if it is not too sharp. = Spring Planting LeRoy Burke Meagher I followed the furrows which dad plowed up And helped with the seeding he had begun, By planting a sackful of corn which looked Like wrinkled-up pieces of autumn sun. The cool, moistened earth felt so good on bare feet And chunks of it stuck between all of my toes, As I walked along, with the sun on my back, And dropped little kernels of sun in the rows. Dawn Evelyn Fijeldsted _We hear a robin's soft ethereal call, A glad, sweet song at break of dawn, - And crocus blossoms, with their tears of dew, Like colored stars are sprinkled on the lawn. Page 317 Table Settings and Flower Arrangements Entertaining the Bride Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board [This is the second in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects. In the coming months Mrs. Judd will present other suggestions suitable to particular seasons.—Ed.] INCE June is the month that more brides choose for their weddings than any other in the year, I want to give you, a month ahead, some ideas for announcements, showers, wedding receptions and so on.. When I think of brides, there often comes to my mind a line from "Peg O' My Heart," a popular play on Broadway in New York City years ago. So long ago, in fact, that I myself was about to be a bride. "In all this world,' remarked one of the characters who represented an older, experienced person in the play, "there's nothing half so sweet as love's young dream." That is why it is such a pleasure to plan social affairs for brides. Some of the joy that they are experiencing seems to spill over, and all of the guests, provided they have perennially young hearts, get their share. Putting first things first, let's talk about announcements. Although the actual announcement is seldom a surprise, it can be told in a surprising and orginal way. At one announcement luncheon, _ balloons were tied to ribbons attached to the stems of the flowers in the center of the table. Other balloons were at each place, and in them anPage 318 nouncements had been put before the balloons were inflated. When the balloons were popped, the announcements were discovered. Sometimes the news is tied in with the bride's background, with the business of the future bridegroom, or with the hobbies of either one of the bridal pair. To announce the forthcoming marriage of her daughter, one bride's mother, the wife of a doctor, passed around a good-sized prescription bottle filled with vitamin capsules in the largest size obtainable. These contained the names of the happy pair and, on the outside of the bottle, was the date of the wedding, the doctor's name, and his prescription: "Take one only for complete happiness." There are many clever ways of highlighting the display of a trousseau. What would we do without flowers, satin bows, and tiny silvery bells that have lain hidden in our stored Christmas decorations until pressed into service? If you have an old-fashioned walnut wardrobe try painting the inside with "shocking pink" as Schiapereli's favorite color is called. Make sachets of various pastel shades and pin-tack eight or ten TABLE SETTINGS AND FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS of them inside each door, which is left open to display household linens. GPEAKING of Christmas bells, the large ones are ideal to use for wedding decorations. One lovely garden wedding where a big bell had been hung (on a wide white satin ribbon) from the branch of a beautiful old tree. Under the bell was a round table holding the exquisite wedding cake and the charming picture was spotted with a flood light. Try pinning small white flowers to these Christmas bells as table decorations, OT, for a very striking effect, make a bell of chicken wire and completely cover it by wiring flowers to it. But, whatever you do, don't forget to sprinkle the flower arrangements with ice water and place them in the refrigerator until needed. In planning decorations for any large group, such as that included 319 in a wedding reception, try to visualize the crowd and have your decorations in large masses and rather high in the room so that they won't be lost when the guests crowd in. I have purposely left showers until the last because I'm afraid they sometimes work an imposition on those invited. Often the same group ls asked to several showers and then, as close friends of the bride, there is still a wedding pres ent to be given. If this is the case, and you still want to have this type of party, try having a spice shower. Send out invitations to the guest to bring "sugar OT spice Or anything nice," and she will not be emparrassed in this day of high prices. The little parasols illustrated this month could be used equally well for any spring patty oF for a bride's or baby showet. These little favors are made by inserting a swab stick in a round of plastic fab- (Continued on page 355) Magazine Subscriptions for 1948 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp HE general board takes this T opportunity to express heartfelt thanks and gratitude to the Relief Society officers, Magazine representatives, and subscribers who have demonstrated their loyal support of The Relief Society Magazine during the year 1948. The devotion with which the Magazine representatives throughout the Church have placed the Magazine in the homes of Latter-day Saints is indeed gratifying. Also a matter of joy and pride to the general board is the success of the representatives in placing the Magazine in the homes of many who are not members of the Church, but who may thereby learn of the ideals and accomplishments of Latter-day Saint women and partake of their spirit of service and enrichment of life. Subscriptions—1948 _ The subscription figure for December 31, 1948 (77,740) shows a loss of 3,238 from the subscription figure of December 31, 1947 (80,978). However, more than half of the subscription total for 1947 represented subscriptions taken out at the old subscription price of $1, and the total as of December 1948 reflects subscriptions at the new price of $1.50. Therefore, the general board feels that the Magazine representatives have worked exceptionally hard during 1948 and are deserving of special credit in having so. Successfully established the Magazine at the new price. Page 320 Because of carrying so many subscriptions during 1948 at the old subscription price, the general board regrets to report that the Magazine showed a small deficit at the end of 1948. However, it is confidently expected that one year from now the subscription figure will reveal a substantial increase and that the Magazine will be entirely self-supporting. For the full realization of these expectations, the general board enlists the continued efforts of the officers and Magazine representatives during the year 1949. Honor Roll Percentages Continuing the policy established in 1948, the membership figures on which the Honor Roll percentages for 1949 will be based, will be counted as of January 1949. This allows each Magazine representative to obtain from the secretary, at once, the membership figures of January 1949 on which her percentage for this year will be figured. In this way a Magazine representative may know all through the year the number of subscriptions she must obtain in order to be on the 1949 Honor Roll, New Features and Services The editorial department of the Magazine strives constantly to improve the quality of the Magazine and to add new features of special interest to Latter-day Saint women. It is gratifying to note the many new authors represented during the year, from so many different parts of the world, and to observe, also, the growth in literary skill of those MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1948 321 agazine, and many readers have teTough united effort fostered b ported enjoyment of the new fea. A love and "PPreciation for Relief ture "From Near and Far," ociety and for the Magazine we The members of the circulation ook forward to 7949 as a year of department likewise work faithfully outstanding accomplishment — for and efficiently that The Relief So. The Relief Society Magazine. South Los Angeles Stake, 120 Per Cent Magazine Representative—Nancy M. Rupp Wards Twenty-third Ward, Salt Lake Stake, 284 Per Cent Magazine Representative—Nellie A. Harter Mm tsstons California Mission, 85 Per Cent Mission President—Vivian R. McConkie mM tsston Districts Imperial Valley District, California Mission, 117 Per Cent Magazine Representative—Mrs W. C. Cox South Los Angeles (California) —— 120. Nancy M. Rupp Provo eS) 113. Flora Buggert San Francisco (California) wen 110. Florence M. Fitzgerald Shelley J =i 109. N. Florence Hanny Oenix (Arizona) on 107. Zola Stapley Five Missions Achieving Highest Percentages California _ a sn 85.._Vivian R. McConkie (Pres. ) Texas-Louisiana _—— oo 82 Christie J. Smith (Pres.) Northern States ___ nnn 79. Elna Dp Haymond (Pres. ) Australian — ae 76 Blanche K. Richmond (Pres.) Western States 0 ~~ 73. Lula P. Child (Pres.) 322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 Stakes in Which All the Wards Reached 100% or Higher Gan Francisco —--------------------Florence M. Fitzgerald Pasadena _.-------—----—--- Sadie Liebig: Granite _..___—__-_<{_-___$____-_——Elizabeth W. McClelland Florida __---------e--eenMaude G. Hawkins Wards and Branches in Stakes and Missions Achieving 200% or Higher East Point Branch (Georgia), Southern States Mission -.300_ Grace Ann Estes Twenty-third Ward, Salt Lake Stake -.------------------------~- 284 Nellie A. Harter Shelton Branch, Seattle Stake -------—------------ __..267 __..--- May G. Axelson Jefferson Ward, Alberta Stake (Canada) —------------------250 Jennie Wheeler Manavu Ward, Provo Stake (Utah) —- _——244 Flora Buggert Tyrells Lake Branch, Taylor Stake (Canada) —-----------230 Clara E. Selk Brawley Branch, California Mission __--------------------—------~225 Irene Wadell Oklahoma City Branch, Central States Mission -------------219 Dagmar Patterson Lone Pine Branch, California Mission __.214 Nina Lenbeck Springville First Ward, Kolob Stake (Utah) —.----------- 209Addie Underwood Stakes by Percentages South Los Angeles 120 Boise go Provo 113 Bannock go San Francisco 110 Rigby go Shelley 109 Park go Phoenix 107 Malad 89 Cassia 104 East Provo 89 Idaho Falls 104 Big Cottonwood 89 Pasadena 103 South Salt Lake 89 Liberty 102 Grant 89 Palo Alto 102 Long Beach ~ 88 North Idaho Falls 102 Wells 87 Granite 101 Blackfoot 87 Florida 100 Cottonwood 87 Burley 100 Sevier 87 Oquirrh 100 Bear Lake 87 Sugar House 100 East Rigby 86 Kolob 99 Alpine 86 South Idaho Falls 98 North Rexburg 86 Taylor 98 North Box Elder 85 Wasatch 98 Salt Lake 85 San Fernando 96 Young 85 West Pocatello 96 Inglewood b4 Humboldt Raft River 84 95 Bear River 84 Nam ie io 95 Emigration 84 San Joaquin 93 South Sevier 84 Ogden 93 Yellowstone 84 San Bernardino 93 Twin Falls 83 Big Horn 92 Union, 83 MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1948 North Jordan Ensign Sacramento Farr West Oakland Reno St. Joseph South Ogden Berkeley Oneida San Juan Rexburg Minidoka Highland Snowflake Los Angeles Gridley Uintah Mesa Weiser Cache Emery Parowan Davis Fast Cache Portneuf Chicago Bonneville Lake View South Box Elder Uvada Seattle Timpanogos Idaho Sharon West Utah North Davis Star Valley Zion Park Palmyra Millard Mount Graham Moapa Utah Franklin San Diego West Jordan South Davis Hillside Ben Lomond Lehi Southern Arizona Pocatello Alberta Teton Tooele Grantsville Denver Montpelier South Carolina Morgan Lost River Cedar East Mill Creek St. George Orem East Jordan Kanab San Luis Blaine Pioneer Mount Jordan Garfield Spokane Mount Logan Wayne Smithfield Nevada Benson Temple View North Sanpete Moroni Roosevelt Logan Maricopa Nebo Weber Woodruff Riverside Juarez South Summit South Sanpete New York Lethbridge Duchesne North Carbon North Sevier Mount Ogden Deseret Lyman Summit Portland Gunnison North Weber Moon Lake Panguitch Washington Juab Hyrum Carbon Santaquin-Tintic Beaver Relief Society Alberta Stake Aetna Hartley Hillspring Jefferson Leavitt Alpine Stake Enrollment 20 20 70 6 43 641 American Fork Second 66 American Fork Third 118 American Fork Fourth 52 American Fork Fifth American Fork Sixth 80 97 American Fork Seventh 70 Hyland Bannock Stake Bench Central Cleveland Grace Grace Second Lago Thatcher Bear Lake Stake Bloomington Fish Haven Garden City Lake Town Lanark Liberty Ovid Paris First 42 353 23 28 @1 a2 63 36 48 504 56 33 37 40 30 31 35 63 No. 19 16 DD 15 33 550 92 las 32 60 55 uf 46 318 26 24 ra 73 30 29 33 437 44 33 35 40 26 31 32 54 Subscriptions Bet 95 80 79 250 uh 86 79 96 100 75 96 110 110 HONOR ROLL Magazine Representative Iris S. Jensen Annie L. B. Orr Viola Wynder Jennie Wheeler Emma Broadbent Edna L. Meredith Mildred Peters Donna Tregaskis Ann C. Hansen Lupril Okey Leila J. Abel Marie Reimschussel Ruby B. Day Ida J. Sorenson Rose Hanson June Welch Mary B. Anderson Ethel Sant Afton Robinson Reba C. Turner Earline Smith Millie Sprouse Bertha Thornock Carol K. Howell Margaret Hodges Emma W. Cheney Fontella Parker Laura Poulsen Hazel L. Peterson Rosa Grandy Relief Society South Cottonwood Valley View Winder Big Horn Stake Basin Belfry Burlington Byron Cody Cowley Iona Lovell Penrose Powell Red Lodge Worland Blackfoot Stake Blackfoot First Blackfoot Third Blackfoot Fourth Groveland Pingree Riverside Riverton Rose Wapello Blaine Stake Fairfield Richfield Dietrich Branch Shoshone Branch Enrollment 85 Vi 2) 78 740 34 11 60 63 ye) 112 15 150 11 41 14 28 862 94 82 98 73 35 92 25 40 We 28 34 14 10 Subscriptions Pct. No. 69 80 75 679 40 12 39 64 30 112 13 158 11 49 13 31 750 78 89 103 7 40 65 24 45 41 35 35 12 12 81 107 96 92 118 118 98 102 120 100 87 105 100 120 93 111 87 83 109 105 100 114 125 96 113 79 125 103 86 120 Magazine Representative Elsa Fors Lorraine R. Miller Margaret D. Paul Daisy A. Tew Louise Y. Tuttle Mary Youst Nellie Erickson Sally Griffin Mary Way Hope Eyre Dora Howe Christina Norton Tilda Wasden Sarapta Asay Augusta Crow Zella Averett Zela Clegg Ardella Wooten Lillie Farnes Afton Johnsten Sarah J. Chapman Sarah E. Cammack Tacy Winmill Carrie Brown Ameline Chaffin Enon Tucker Louella Packham Ivena Brown Mary Cleveland Iva Lou G. Pingree 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 St. Charles Sharon Bear River Stake Beaver Deweyville East Garland Elwood Garland First Park Valley Penrose Promontory Snowville Stone Tremonton First Tremonton Second Thatcher Ben Lomond Stake Lorin Farr North Ogden First Benson Stake Lewiston Third Berkeley Stake Berkeley First Berkeley Second Claremont East Richmond Fairfield Napa Pittsburg Vallejo Walnut Creek 76 17 971 41 51 31 39 74 25 20 12 32 4) 132 120 36 74 7G 60 i 69 61 29 38 23 40 49 30 19 Big Cottonwood Stake 676 Cottonwood Holladay First Mt. Olympus 108 88 92 76 19 814 38 42 30 40 39 30 22 Ly 34 23 136 116 36 82 81 32 465 62 48 34 am 18 31 97 26 18 600 107 67 101 100 112 84 93 82 97 103 80 120 110 142 106 85 103 97 100 111 125 87 81 90 79 92 98 78 78 116 87 95 89 99 76 110 Wanda S. Rich Hazel Long Edna B. Ward Alpha Packer Pearl Perry Dora Shaffer Janusine M. Peterson Salina Johnson Eloise Palmer Lena M. Jensen Marva Stokes Cora Dalley Francis Mills Mildred Bunnel Lillian Barfus Mrs. Golden Burton Martha Alberts Edith V. Judkins Anna W. Mills Emma J. Hinckley Mae Waldram Ada Lindblad Mable Smith Elverda Coats Izetta Bramwell Jessie Stubbs Margaret Davis Winnona Lockwood Emma Amtoft Ethel A. Smith Francis C. Remund Mertle Ault Mary Timmerman Boise Stake Boise First Boise Second Boise Third Boise Fifth Glenns Ferry Meridian Eagle Branch 510 68 56 85 45 41 65 20 Mountain Home Branch 13 Bonneville Stake Garden Park Thirty-Third Yale Burley Stake Burley First Burley Second Burley Fourth Burley Fifth Declo Pella Springdale Star Unity View Cache Stake Logan Third Logan Fourth Logan Ninth Logan Sixteenth Logan Seventeenth Carbon Stake Dragerton Branch Cassia Stake Basin Marion 103 128 170 607 36 78 74 47 76 32 46 26 36 52 551 72 129 91 89 78 38 179 16 31 461 73 60 86 45 35 76 16 13 i11 102 137 607 39 84 89 40 76 42 39 Bie 62 46 429 39 97 77 78 39 Dl 187 16 29 90 107 107 101 100 85 117 80 100 108 80 81 100 108 108 120 85 100 131 85 123 111 88 78 82 75 85 88 76 134 104 100 94 L. Emma Cordon Utahna S. Randall Irene K. Read Leah Harker Maybell Richardson Leola T. Thurman. Mable Roylance Edith Blackmer Estella M. Hall Thelma Jacob Pearl Dent Millie Barnes Jane R. Robinson Mary Bateman Ella B. Boatman Mildred N. Moss Lucille N. Jamison Nellie Kidd Ellen C. Mitchell Gladys Bowen Gertrude Durfee Lucynthia Halford Thelma Taylor Orilla J. Lucas Louise R. Rich Jessie Bouwhuis LaVaun Hawkins Genevieve B. Bradley Effie W. Darley Coral Williams Jane R. Hale Marion McIntosh Sarah Adams HONOR ROLL 325 Enrolj]. Subscriptions Magazine Ment No, Pet. Represen tative €cond 58 58 100 Iona Neilson 115 87 76 Bertha Dower Stake 831 695 Y, 84 Ethe[ L. Goates 71 88 124 Annie DeLange 107 84 79 Gertrude Russe] 97 102% 106 Alma Erickson 85 76 89 Mayme Farr 68 8913) Florence E, Murphy Seventh 69 71 103 Viola L. Walton 112 85 76 Vera Stringham 843 689 82 Charlotte W. Spencer 179 182 192 Ruby A. Walter 196 147 75 Mary W. Osborn' 110 98 89 Cleo Parrog 13] 109 83 Agnes Johnson 132 100 76 Ethe] Young 326 504 409 81 Irene M. Crowthe; 62 62 100 Cora A. Peterson 65 72 11] Alice E Hellewel] 32 26 81 Phyllis De Vries 76 80 105 Phyllis Aufstertle, 34. Ey 94 Amelia Holley 5 5 328 329 100 Maude G. Hawking Pa 3] 31 109 Margare; Mizzel] > 84 84 100 Carene Betha C 21 21 100 Edna Douberley N 35 35° 100 Hilda Anderson = 59 60 102 Camillus McRae r 24 24-100 Arzella Jordan FS 21 21 199 Elizabeths Jammes > 12 12 109 Doris D. McCal| "< os 2 R, Iva William. = 19 19 100 Mattie D. Stringer = Duchesne Stake Arcadia 31 Bridgeland 31 East Cache Stake 551 Logan Fifth 68 Logan Eighteenth 74 North Logan 55 East Jordan Stake Butler 60 East Midvale Second 5] Garden View 60 East Mill Creek Stake Evergreen 49 Grand View 118 Rosecrest 149 East Provo Stake 359 Bonneville 69 Provo Eighth 75 Provo Ninth 61 Provo Thirteenth 56 Wymount Branch 48 East Rigby Stake 510 Fidelity 8 Garfield 34 Lorenzo 28 Milo 42 Rigby Second 62 Ririe First 52 Ririe Second 61 Shelton 44 Emery Stake 680 Elmo 37 Emery 98 Huntington First 54 116 94 75 118 82 116 75 80 95 88 75 77 89 75 117 84 82 108 86 100 82 107 110 103 108 105 89 78 86 id 104 Ora N. Holgate Naturitch Neilsen Anna N., Stettler Abby G. Jenson Violet Hall Mrs. Oliver Larsen Roberta Antezak Ida Leafquist Hazel Anderson Florida Hengley Folles Treglown Elizabeth B. Larsen, President Sarah H, Passey Nellie Christensen Mary T. Johnson Norma B. Nelson Ruby W. Hawkins Anna Mae Goold Dale Burtenshaw Hattie Jacobsen Ethel Groom LaRetta Tibbitts Elsie Barnes Hazel Whittle Esther Scott Ines Laughlin Dale Burtenshaw Janice J, Scow Zola Larsen Eudean Olsen Anna B. Nielson Franklin Stake Mapleton Whitney Garfield Stake Circleville Kingston Granite Stake Columbus Fairmont Forest Dale Lincoln Nibley Park Wells Grant Stake Hillcrest Lorraine Smith Springview Wandamere Ward Grantsville Stake Erda Grantsville Second Wendover Gridley Stake Chico Grass Valley Oroville Yuba City Gunnison Stake Gunnison Highland Stake Park Avenue Parleys 25 57 74 19 692 70 76 144 135 143 124 447 86 83 74 106 95 21 102 45 279 42 29 ml 67 103 635 114 68 24 46 66 21 699 71 76 144 139 143 126 395 2 67 82 82 pi 16 78 45 218 33 29 24 56 99 501 85 78 Cora Knapp Blanche Hull] HONOR ROLL Etta Haycock Gail B. Coats Elizabeth W. McLelland Irene S. Hilton Mary Springer Katherine Crane Catherine M. Wiseman Emma Armstrong Hazel E. B. Radley Alleen F, Keller Vondra Dipo Helen Flowers Rubelle B. Francis Louisa A. Francom Iva Dell Holmberg Mrs. Allen Warr Eva I. Worthington Carol S. Duke Violet Gray Carol McIntosh Nora Medlyn Violet Gray Mabel Hayter Orilla Wilkenson Rae Ashton Adlia Andrus Erma Bernston 327 Kanab Stake Moccasin Kolob Stake Springville First Springville Second Springville Third Springville Fourth Springville Fifth Springville Seventh Springville Eighth Springville Ninth Mapleton Lake View Stake Kanesville Lake View Riverdale Roy Lehi Stake Lehi First Lehi Fifth Lethbridge Stake Barnwell Claresholm Diamond City Orton Stavely Taber Second Liberty Stake North Second South Second Third Eighth Ninth Harvard Liberty || 692 69 67 74 71 80 93 66 56 94 52 63 66 82 110 86 60 35 23 19 11 31 670 ial 60 80 117 83 133 126 12 686 135 103 166 117 99 209 87 76 77 93 85 115 105 82 94 89 105 78 102 92 83 83 96 89 91 75 102 87 90 100 115 104 77 132 Margaret Heaton Mary W. Clegg Addie Underwood Eudora Jensen Ellen Giles Rose Roylance Belle Childs Effie Philips Alice Wilmott Ellen Larson Ardilla Perry Isabelle Simmons Inez Nelson Pearl Champneys Jane E. Hyden Hazel May Bone Alice Stice Hazel Jensen Pearl Erickson Esther Wilcox Mary Dickie Ida L. Rodgers Lucille Valgardson Lila B. Pressler Amelia Marsh Charlotte Duncan Beverly Miles Emma Liebelt Lila B. Pressler Ann H. Peery Alice Russell Portage St. John Maricopa Stake Mesa Fourth Pine Mesa Stake Alma Chandler Gilbert Hayden Mesa Third Mesa Seventh Casa Grand Branch Ray Branch Superior Branch Millard Stake Fillmore First Fillmore Second Fillmore Third Flowell Minidoka Stake Emerson Hazelton Hunt Paul Rupert First Moapa Stake Boulder City Charleston Davis Dam. Littlefield Logandale Overton 35 J | 82 21 733 61 83 38 20 82 113 9 7 19 73 75 90 36 421 25 30 6 42 39 82 60 14 14 oo) 65 49 44 68 17 570 36 64 36 89 86 83 81 78 92 ya 94 105 80 82 78 86 89 95 84 77 89 79 100 134 83 131 100 88 103 100 114 98 75 Twila R. Howell Anna Lyle M. Jones Millie H. Henkel Celeste Patterson (President) Lula L. Allen Lola White Edith Eyring Madge Germaine Clare Hubbard Thelma Williams Thelma C. Millitt Irene Herbert Martha Backetine Leona Robertson Rachel Warner Ireta Bartholomew Ora B. Hanson Verl Christensen Clarinda Green Louie Mae Mecham._ Deliah Wickham Phoeba Parson Zelma Bauer Maybell Stevenson Greta F. Rosenbaum Grace McNatt Mae Richard Vinda Reber Alice Sprague Mildred Robison HONOR ROLL 329 Relief Society Montpelier Stake Bennington Bern Cokeville Nounan Raymond Wardboro Moon Lake Stake Boneta Morgan Stake Croydon North Morgan Slide Moroni Stake Moroni West Wales Mount Graham Stake Duncan Layton Solemonville Virden Animas Branch Mount Jordan Stake Sandy Third Mount Logan Stake Logan Seventh River Heights Mount Ogden Stake Highland Enrollment 33 2a 38 18 15 26 25 14 45 21 92 B) 33 147 32 38 Z 80 73 49 81 Subscriptions No. 28 22 Bk 19 16 26 19 14 58 16 81 36 Pet. 85 100 82 106 107 100 76 100 129 76 88 113 92 7m 100 90 86 85 78 80 86 Magazine Representative Veda Burdict Myrtle Stecklar Lydia Harmon Helen Crossley Eleaner Saton Genevieve Kunz Opal Barton Faye London Julia Carrigan Betty Redden Jane Blackham Florence Blackham Hallie Dees Ella Farley June Curtis Emma J. Lines Arminta Richins Mamie L. Winkler Emma L. Pehrson Rose Hansen Tennessee Foutz Relief Society ment North Davis Stake Clearfield First 110 Clearfield Second 61 Syracuse 122 Sahara Village Branch 24 North Idaho Falls Stake 525 Coltman 50 Idaho Falls First 87 Idaho Falls Fourth 98 Idaho Falls Seventh 137 Osgood 32 Ucon 101 North Jordan Stake 513 Bennion 65 Granger First 116 Redwood 51 Taylorsville 68 North Rexburg Stake 630 Hibbard 71 Newdale Ef Plano 46 Salem 72 Sugar 148 Teton 110 North Sanpete Stake Milburn 15 Mt. Pleasant South 150 Mounrainville 13 North Sevier Stake Aurora 89 Vermillion 22 EnrollSubscriptions Pct. No. 114 66 100 32 536 39 67 105 138 61 106 423 37 116 51 73 541 68 38 30 69 119 95 13 113 12 70 18 104 108 82 133 102 118 77 107 101 117 105 82 88 100 100 107 86 96 103 109 96 80 86 87 75 92 79 82 Magazine Representative Susan Argyle Clara Wallace May Sessions Marijane Adams Lucille Johnson Magdalena Nelson Leona Merrill Edith Southwick Emma Jensen Lucille Sorenson Elna Andrus Mable G. Morgan Edythe P. Blanck Malinda H. Christensen Louisa Skog Loretta Foote Lucy Furness Belva Withers Louie Graham Arvilla Parkinson Ive Price Mary Thomson Zina Pincock Fannie M. Graham Annie Brotherson Vera Shelley Hazel Curtis May M. Gledhill 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 Nampa Stake 488 Caldwell Pr. Homedale 55 Melba 07 Nampa First 51 Nampa Second 72 Nampa Third 50 Nampa Fourth 55 Marsing Branch 34 Star Branch 13 Nebo Stake Park 80 Payson Second 118 Nevada Stake Lund 51 Ruth 27 Garrison Branch 21 Kimberly Branch 14 New York Stake Manhattan | 35 North Box Elder Stake 597 Bear River 69 Brigham Third 78 Brigham Fourth 93 Brigham Seventh 68 Brigham Eighth 92 Corinne 86 Harper 23 Evans Branch 24 North Carbon Stake Castle Gate 60 Storrs 25 Scofield Branch 19 462 35 "a 34 31 60 via 60 34 13 65 91 39 31 17 16 28 510 74 63 76 62 69 fal 23 25 31 oe] 20 95 76 100 92 100 83 142 109 100 100 81 77 76 115 81 114 80 85 107 81 82 91 75 83 100 104 85 4 105 Gladys Squires Theodocia Garner Lorena Davenport Rita Bradshaw Blanche F. Woolard Lucile B. Hennis Lilly Loveland Hanna Castagneto Anelda Reece Emily Kent Ethel Hiatt Clystia R. Powell Edith Reid Maud Mifflin Agnes Dearden Isabell Hansen Alma A. Lang Iretta H. May Seretta Johnson Fern Channel] Geneva F. Wright LaVina S. Hansen Dorothy B. Willie Rose B. Nelson Liona R. May Margaret Smith Mary Babcock Marie Ericson Sarah Donaldson North Weber Stake Taylor Oakland Stake Alameda Dimond Elmhurst Hayward Maxwell Park Ogden Stake Huntsville Liberty Ogden Fourth Ogden Thirteenth Ogden Twentieth Ogden Thirtieth Ogden Thirty-first Oneida Stake Banida Dayton Glencoe Glendale Preston Third Preston Fourth Preston Seventh Treasureton Oquirrh Stake Hercules Magna Pleasant Green Spencer Orem Stake Sharon Windsor 61 506 45 99 71 71 75 767 ml 23 114 112 96 67 138 653 21 a7 23 14 64 90 — 94 24 385 15 107 112 39 35 81 30 410 49 75 64 39 66 716 63 19 103 117 124 68 125 526 ml 60 25 14 68 94 86 20 385 20 112 128 81 30 69 82 81 109 76 90 83 88 93 89 83 90 104 129 101 91 81 100 78 109 100 106 104 91 83 100 133 105 114 137 91 85 Lorene Farr Lila F. Graham Lavine McRae Gladys Thomas Irene Dutson Alyce Johns Veda Mann Pearl G. Williams Edris Knapp Florence S. Hill Thelma Newman Magdalene Brown Nanna M. N. Christlansen Audrey Dewey Rozella Crews HONOR ROLL Kenna Bergeson Ada Bell Irene Schwartz Mary B. Larsen Eulalia Larsen Mrs. Alfred Kern Lizzie Weaver Jennie Swainston Vera Atkinson Hazel B. Jones Hazel Bertoch Izella Jeppson Myrtle Russon Florence Reid Edith Duke Blanche Nielson 331 Relief Society Palmyra Stake Palmyra Salem Spanish Fork First Spanish Fork Second Spanish Fork Third Birdseye Branch Palo Alto Stake Burlingame Naglee Park Palo Alto Redwood City San Jose Willow Glen Park Stake First Tenth Thirty-firse Duncan Emigration LeGrand Webster Parowan Stake Enoch Paragonah Parowan West Summit Pasadena Stake Alhambra Baldwin Park Belvedere Eastmont El Monte Enrollment 35 94 81 100 118 bi 265 21 28 36 yd 32 22 749 85 69 105 62 72 131 87 353 92 76 131 25 861 116 67 85 82 67 No. EI 75 69 76 98 14 271 29 30 56 59 37 31 674 83 63 106 35 69 133 68 268 98 37 98 23 889 117 67 85 85 67 Subscriptions Pct. 89 80 85 76 83 127 102 138 107 100 104 116 141 90 98 91 101 89 96 102 78 76 103 75 75 92 103 101 100 100 104 100 Magazine Representative Lois Nash Christy Sabin Delila G. Williams Pearl Cloward Hazel J. Christiansen Rachel Spencer Sarah N. Avery Augusta G. Wood Eliza J. Horsfield Edna R. Cole Inez V. Tuhlsen Maud L. West Rasmine Jensen Hattie S. Hanigan Clara Dittman Lamecia Pierce Sarah Harmon Anna Buie Margaret Runnels Edna Davis Ada Flandro Phebe Taylor Cora B. Murie Virginia Dunton Sara S. Hulet Lucy Green Sadie Liebig Ruther Harper Affa Caldwell Kate Scott Carol Miller Thelma Harms Relief Society Provo Stake Manavu Provo Fifth Provo Seventh Provo Tenth Raft River Stake Malta Moulton Sublect Yost Reno Stake Hawthorne Lovelock Reno Sparks Susanville Westwood Rexburg Stake Archer Burton Independence Lyman Rexburg Second Rexburg Third Rexburg Fourth Rigby Stake Grant Hamer Lewisville Menan Second Rigby First Rigby Fourth Roberts Terreton Beaver Creek Branch Enrollment 440 86 80 93 68 169 51 10 10 15 388 32 20 46 95 52 28 687 103 66 37 68 180 71 162 722 we 27 102 75 87 Me 68 43 9 No. 496 210 68 80 68 142 60 12 8 16 314 ay 17 35 116 44 30 548 78 30 36 36 137 64 127 650 56 27 102 68 87 76 68 44 14 Subscriptions Pet. 113 244 85 86 100 84 118 120 80 107 81 84 85 76 122 85 107 80 76 76 97 82 76 90 78 90 108 100 100 91 100 106 100 102 156 Magazine Representative Flora Buggert Flora Buggert Fanny S. Whimpey Mary Josie Eva Thorsen Alice O. Neddo Alice O. Neddo Julia H. Clark Sylvia Olsen Eva Montgomery Elmina Cummins Ada M. Jensen Florence Milich Annie L. Morrison Bertha J. Purdy Genet Johnson Mary Young Daphne Nef Norah Grover Zina Clark Pauline Perry Anna Benson Maud Taylor Wanda Hunziker Mary Moore Amelia Stallings Rachel Taylor Sarah McClure Melba Kinghorn Lizzie Golder Margaret Chandler Ann W. Nielsen Ruth Marriott Maurine Peterson Mildred L. Haag ' 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 El Sereno Las Flores Mission Park Monrovia Montebello Pasadena Rosemead Whittier Phoenix Stake Capitol Glendale Phoenix First Phoenix Second Phoenix Third Phoenix Fourth Phoenix Fif th Scottsdale Pioneer Stake Thirty-second Edison Pocatello Stake Pocatello Eighth Pocatello Thirteenth Pocatello Fourteenth Portland Stake Eugene Portneuf Stake Arimo Garden Creek Lava Hot Springs Merrill Swan Lake Virginia 37 44 55 68 72 78 37 53 566 77 60 112 87 70 45 81 22 70 79 62 115 61 52 468 58 28 60 10 29 36 604 112 103 103 100 102 107 100 113 116 102 107 90 107 100 108 134 100 105 132 100 87 76 90 110 112 75 81 104 78 90 103 89 May Gerwin Dora Larson Sarah Booth Martha Hanks Nell Maiben Mary Phillips LaVon Howse May Kneisley Zola Stapley Rowena Bretzing Julia S. Kremer Claradell S. DeWitt Phoebe Thomson Rintha Naylor Ralva Mitchell Eulla Davis Mildred Smithson Edith Murray Ida Deters Helen Gunther Mary Howells Cora Hartvigsen Viola Thorn Ada L. Parris Lula Welch Lucille Capell Hattie Rowsell LaVene Pilgrim Marie Henderson Marion Shapperl Riverside Stake Riverside Twenty-eighth Roosevelt Stake Ballard Roosevelt Second White Rocks Sacramento Stake Arcade Homestead Roseville Sutter Auburn Branch Placerville Branch Woodland Branch St. George Stake Gunlock Ivins Pine Valley St. George Fifth St. George Sixth Veyo St. Joseph Stake Bryce Eden Globe Miami Pima Salt Lake Stake North Seventeenth Nineteenth Twenty-second Twenty-third Capitol Hill 63 124 48 68 17 474 47 86 71 80 16 12 28 18 14 12 39 34 17 539 19 28 46 56 118 907 137 87 99 37 97 100 76 79 93 100 82 Ww 92 107 83 94 92 96 100 86 100 76 106 88 81 79 79 78 93 101 85 103 80 95 284 82 Hilvie Daniels Eleanor Smith HONOR ROLL Verna Werner Eliza Gilbert Myrtle Hoopes Susie V. Beutler Elsie Jones Augusta Hillman Vida B. Morey LaVernia B. Lewis Jane Lyman Goldie T. Baker Venda Gorden Maybell Hunt Martha E. Hafen Maud C. Gardner Elma M. Miles Emma C. Abbott Adelle Bunker Rula Colvin Nellie Dixon Ola Colvin Hilda M. Sanders Ella Sims Opal Cluff Rebecca P. Bean Mary Pack Klea Gray Alma Laxman Nellie A. Harter Melba Barnes 333 Relief Society Enrollment San Bernardino Stake 466 Colton Fontana Ontario Pomona Redlands Riverside San Bernardino First 2 23 47 64 33 80 39 San Bernardino Second 54 Victorville San Diego Stake Hillcrest La Mesa North Park Valencia Park San Fernando Stake Burbank Eleysian Park Garvanza Glendale East Glendale West North Hollywood Reseda San Fernando Studio City Sunset Van Nuys San Francisco Stake Balboa Mission San Francisco Sunset 23 60 49 67 34 969 66 78 128 187 115 115 34 95 82 oo 80 296 48 68 84 96 No. 432 42 18 49 60 28 63 60 39 21 59 37 56 49 933 68 66 98 190 105 99 46 a2 81 68 80 327 75 69 87 96 Subscriptions Pet. 93 wa 78 104 94 85 79 102 109 91 98 76 84 91 96 103 90 80 102 91 86 135 91 99 115 100 110 156 101 104 100 Magazine Representative Hollie Jolley Breech Mrs. Louie Westover Alice S. Walker Vienna Stewart Lois Higgins Gladys Smith Ida K. Woodbury Laura Lee Hilliker Betty E. Trent Fay Adams Sarah Bodily Gladys Brimhall Ora Peterson Nancy Bird Elsie Weber Jane Reynolds Frances Kelland Elizabeth Burnett Elizabeth Brower Ruth B. Turman Helen Yaple Zola Larsen Leona Hobbs Peninnah W. Anderson Lucille A. Switzer Katherine Duke Florence M. Fitzgerald Mary C. Sernack Hulda Noether Ann E. Savard Lillian E. Clawson Relief Society Shelley Stake Basalt Firth Goshen Jamestown Kimball Shelley First Shelley Second Shelley Third Taylor Woodville Smithfield Stake Smithfield First Snowflake Stake Claysprings Heber Joseph City Lakeside Linden Pinedale Showlow Snowflake Woodruff Enrollment 572 48 68 75 49 26 90 79 38 31 48 82 647 27 30 34 45 6 21 30 118 27 South Box Elder Stake Brigham City First Brigham City Second Brigham City Sixth South Carolina Stake Columbia Gaffney Spartanburg Augusta Branch 111 112 104 28 19 16 18 Subscriptions No. 623 33 102 67 P| 28 91 83 62 33 33 82 509 116 Pet. 109 110 150 89 104 108 101 105 107 106 110 100 79 89 87 107 107 133 86 82 GZ 81 77 104 78 93 84 100 128 Magazine Representative N. Florence Hanny Thelma Hoskins N. Florence Hanny Mattie Christensen Eva Burke Florence E. Gifford Edna Anderson Ruth H. John Charlotte Winn Marvel Peterson Edna H. Kotter Jessie Littledike Kathleen B. Fraser Ruby Hancock Rose Reidhead Maurine Despain Luella K. Burke Etta C. Seymore Jane W. Jackson Louise Woolford Marge Hunt Zella S. Turley Arta Sessions Ezma L. Knudson Elizabeth M. Baird Daisy M. Neeley Vernie Mae Martin Elizabeth Noblin Bertha N. Cook 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 San Joaquin Stake 243 Modesto 63 Stockton 82 Tracy 24 Ione Branch 15 San Juan Stake 382 Blanding 93 Grayson 107 Monticello 106 Lockerby Branch 14 San Luis Stake Alamosa 55 Morgan Branch 30 Santaquin-Tintic Stake Elberta Branch 18 Seattle Stake Bellingham 34 Queen Anne 57 South Seattle 21 Tacoma Central 67 Port Orchard Branch 24 Shelton Branch 6 Sevier Stake 697 Richfield First. 119 Richfield Second 115 Richfield Third 114 Richfield Fourth 109 Sigurd 40 Greenwich Branch 15 Sharon Stake Edgemont 52 Oak Hills 40 Pleasant View 40 227 57 88 25 19 305 77 88 87 13 42 24 14 36 33 pai 65 24 16 605 119 117 100 109 30 15 45 41 56 93 90 107 104 127 80 83 82 82 93 76 80 78 106 93 129 97 100 267 87 100 102 88 100 75 100 87 103 140 Sarah Dana Mable J. Arnald Ellen Burt Sarah Dana May H. Frasure Ruth J. Nielson Bertha Hurst Bernice Burtenshaw Amy Black Maxine Johnson Opal McDaniel Grace Price Harriet E. Barney Ella M. Petrie Emily J. Heath Charlotte Myler Vernice Baldwin Myra Ennis May G. Axelson Beth V. Anderson Stena Mangum Jane Y. Pollett Laura Wilson Naomi Foisey Maurine Snedegar Mildred Nielson Flora Bigler Mrs. Paul Crandall Mary E. Cluff South Davis Stake Bountiful First Bountiful Third Bountiful Fifth South Idaho Falls Stake Ammon Idaho Falls Third Idaho Falls Sixth Idaho Falls Eighth South Los Angeles Stake Downey Firestone Grant Huntington Park Manchester Matthews Maywood South Gate Vermont Walnut Park South Ogden Stake Ogden Ninth Ogden Fourteenth Ogden Eighteenth Ogden Twenty-sixth Ogden Twenty-seventh Ogden Twenty-eighth Uintah 131 79 86 378 106 108 91 73 880 83 38 51 88 101 105 lil 127 74 102 663 86 86 89 96 35 96 29 South Salt Lake Stake 521 Burton Central Park Haven Miller 74 03 80 96 106 68 67 371 - 106 102 89 74 1054 93 65 55 86 119 129 130 192 79 106 535 65 66 87 82 62 80 22 462 98 80 92 99 81 86 78 98 100 94 98 101 120 112 171 108 98 118 123 117 151 107 104 81 76 77 98 85 113 83 76 89 132 86 115 103 'Anna Bangerter Reeve Hill Wanda Gill HONOR ROLL Valeria Blotter Leda Jones Alice Marler Elizabeth Perry Rosa Waters Nancy Rupp Letha Henricksen Caroline Hurd Josephine Mugleston Rhea Warren Lucille Miller Ramona Wells Clara Willis Marie De Spain Estella Sorensen Ethel Varney Loretta Cramer Ada Gibbons Viola DaBell Marie Wagner Loretta Faddis Josephine Swenson Margaret Williams Kathleen Combe Hedy T. Davies Inga Denstad Alice Frandsen Hanna Dietrich Rosemary McKinnon 335 Relief Society ment South Sevier Stake 499 Annabella 57 Joseph 42 Monroe North 112 Monroe South 92 South Summit Stake Marion 32 Peoa 34 Woodland 38 Southern Arizona Stake Binghampton 66 Whitewater 38 Willcox Branch 8 Spokane Stake Coeur D'Alene Branch 14 Star Valley Stake Bedford 30 Freedom 87 Grover 48 Thayne 56 Sugar House Stake 767 Bryan 109 Emerson 139 Hawthorne 115 Marlborough 127 Richards 114 Sugar House 163 Summit Stake Hoytsville 47 Upton 9 EnrollNo. 417% 57 46 101% 75 26 27 31 75 36 6 17 26 79 Subscriptions Pet. 84 100 110 91 82 81 79 82 114 95 75 121 87 91 75 109 100 100 100 101 108 106 88 83 100 Magazine Representative Tillie B. Collings Lydia E. Fillmore Ruby Baker Sarah Farmer Sadie Pope Laura Simpson Norma Wright Francell Gines Louisa Done Ethel Gardner Lenore Duncan Emma Masten Sarah Moser Eliza Robinson Carma Skinner Leta Coffman Melissa K. Wallace Annie Buckway Liahona Smith Hattie Pope Ada Sears Elmea Flora Alice Jones Jemima Crittenden Sybil Staley Relief Society Castleford Branch Filer Branch Uintah Stake Ashley Glines Maeser Vernal First Vernal Second Vernal Third Bonanza Branch Union Stake Baker La Grande First Pendleton Union Halfway Branch Utah Stake Provo Sixth University Uvada Stake Panaca Pioche Hiko Branch Wasatch Stake Center Charleston Daniel Heber First Heber Second Heber Third Heber Fourth Midway First Wallsburg Enrollment 23 27 676 44 44 74 67 79 72 10 400 62 83 38 49 8 83 No. 23 23 528 36 38 a7 68 60 83 10 330 49 93 38 41 10 79 2) 39 Subscriptions Pet. 100 85 78 82 86 104 101 76 115 100 §3 94 112 100 84 125 95 75 75 182 100 98 109 108 102 83 94 100 120 102 116 Magazine Representative Mable Sparks Martha Taylor Elsie M. Palmer Annie Morrison Effie Holfeltz Marie Johnson Mary A. Eaton Pearl D. Winder Alice Billings Zora Gurr Leola Blake Sadie E. Shelton Lillie Waldrop Belle Eriksen Clarice Kohler Wilmerth O. Ward Jane B. Evans Leda Law Eva T. Lee Hertha Kroencke Jewel S. Hansen Mildred Lawrence Phyllis Christensen Zina Ritchie Ina Orgil Annie L. Clyde Lula Hicken Margaret C. Callister Verna M. Hicken Martha Burgi Orpha Edwards 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 Taylor Stake Magrath First Magrath Second Raymond First Raymond Second Raymond Third Raymond Fourth Stirling Welling Tyrells Lake Branch Temple View Stake Six - Seventh Teton Stake Cache Cedron Darby Jackson Timpanogos Stake Grove Lindon Manila Pleasant Grove First Tooele Stake Tooele First Tooele Fifth Stockton Branch Tod Park Branch Twin Falls Stake Kimberly Martaugh Twin Falls First Twin Falls Second Twin Falls Third Twin Falls Fourth 544 74 We a 65 65 62 79 31 10 65 21 20 20 30 71 82 2 92 99 113 30 16 472 m2, 45 79 36 68 36 534 73 71 37 68 67 36 61 35 23 49 19 zal 1 34 73 65 46 72 76 87 30 Zl 394 44 36 80 67 53 47 98 99 '99 110 105 103 90 HN 113 230 75 90 105 85 113 103 79 88 78 77 77 100 131 83 85 80 101 120 78 84 Grace B. Fletcher Lucile Gurney Annie Steele Minnie B. Litchfield Iva M. Jensen Esther J. Anderson Retta F. Heggie Elsie Perrett Anna Wilde Clara E. Selk Elizabeth Keachie Grace E. Higley Leatha Kunz Eva Hillman Beth Robertson Martha Larson Ella Smith Thelma Freeman Ann Nelson Clara Smith Earlene McGee Elva Benson La Rue Tabbert Goldie Tolman Mrs. Floyd V. Stanger Naomi Egbert Lenore Carroll Mable M. Judd Vera Holland Bertha Bolton Wayne Stake Hanksville 10 Grover Branch 9 Weber Stake Ogden First 119 Ogden Nineteenth 75 Weiser Stake 612 Cascade 18 Emmett First 36 Fruitvale 8 Letha 59 Nyssa First 37 Nyssa Second 5) Ontario 78 Owyhee 45 Payette 29 Vale 50 Wells Stake 887 Belvedere 178 Browning 116 Ivins 121 McKay. 106 Waterloo 122 Whittier 4 Wilson 92 West Jordan Stake Bingham 75 Herriman 52 Riverton First 72 Riverton Second 88 South Jordan 129 West Pocatello Stake 600 Arbon 20 Pocatello First 88 Pocatello Third 123 776 152 102 100 108 95 125 94 73 61 71 78 102% 576 17 75 97 110 89 76 87 78 100 119 75 83 89 103 81 89 93 110 87 85 88 83 102 78 82 102 97 117 99 89 79 96 85 85 79 Wynona Wickman Jay Clark Robena Harris Winona Hartman Fannie Chandler Clara McMurdie Ella Scott Irene Burt Edna Hunter Violet Riggs Ruth Lewis Mrs. J. R. McGill Allie C. Hartley Fern L. Roberts Avis Belnap HONOR ROLL Ida A. Isaacson Cora Miller Lucy Grames Mary Teerlink Mable Wood Jennie Waldron Aretta Hanson Merle Wennhold Hazel J. Robison Agnes Dansie Eliza Reynolds Blanche Myers Elsie Merrill Reta Austin Lois Bolingbroke Emma Hurst Elva Neeley 337 Relief Society Pocatello Fifth Pocatello Tenth Pocatello Eleventh West Utah Stake Pioneer Provo Eleventh Rivergrove Sunset Woodruff Stake Hilliard Yellowstone Stake Ashton Chester Egin Bench St. Anthony First Twin Groves Wilford Kilgore Branch Young Stake Farmington Jewett Kirtland Redmesa Allison Branch Cortez Branch Durango Branch Kline Branch Zion Park Stake Hurricane South Springdale Toguerville Enrollment 97 93 95 64 65 103 73 17 621 78 34 38 83 30 34 " 331 91 19 34 36 15 Ww 23 14 70 27 43 Subscriptions No. 96 93 147 49 33 79 61 W 519 91 33 46 86 30 44 rj 281 84 16 61 30 12 13 Zit 17 96 25 39 Pet. 99 100 Le 77 82 77 84 100 84 dey 97 79 104 100 81 V2 85 92 84 113 83 80 76 91 121 80 93 98 Magazine Representative Lillian Myres Ethel Morgan Hattie Tolman Ella Wilkins Ruby Peay Geneva Larsen Lillie M. Campbell Lucille Brown Leona Lords Juanita Osborne Edna Rose Fanny Hunter Ada Christensen Alpha Hathaway Beulah Willyerd Hedwig Hirschi Lois Palmer Margaret Dustin C. Mae Hunt Lois Palmer Agnes Slade Ruth Jack Marian Tanner Ruby Wilson Ida Eaton Mrs. Joel White Susan Ruesch Edythe Klingensmith Relief Society Beaumont Elsinore Hemet Santa Barbara Santa Barbara Santa Paula South Coast Carlsbad Escondido Fallbrook Laguna Beach San Dieguito Canadian Montreal Windsor Central States Arkansas City Centropolis Claytonville East St. Louis El Dorado Larned Mexico Oklahoma City Riverview Rolla Central Atlantic States North Carolina East Albertson Goldsboro North Carolina West Colfax Enrollment 12 9 29 36 15 89 18 26 15 16 14 11 11 41 32 Subscriptions No. 10 7 34 33 19 90 15 28 17 18 12 10 47 24 Pct. 83 78 117 92 127 101 83 108 113 113 86 91 91 82 91 80 80 91 89 80 219 83 125 115 115 75 Magazine Representative Gwen C. Davis Virginia Gardner Constance Milligan Eileen Godbey Tressa Leary Elizabeth C. Andersen Violet Williams Ruth Harris Liela Reed Marie Rolson Mollie B. Hansen Margaret Callander E. Clarke Donna White Stella Richards Ada A. Fridell Mrs. Pratt Kanipe Ila Lovelace Virginia Naugle Nan Thompson Dagmar Patterson May L. Smith Edith Underwood Eva Harper Marie Hunter 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 MISSIONS Australian Enmore Glen Huon Hurstville Nambour California Arizona Chino Verde Valley Wickenburg Bakersfielg Delano Oildale Taft Wasco Imperia] Valley Blythe Brawley Indio Yuma Las Flores San Luis Obispo Santa Maria Mojave Desert Barstow Bisho p Lancaster Lone Pine Mojave Ridgecrest Trona San Gorgonio Banning Juanita B, Brooks Lily Y. Davies Clara E Lloyd Rae Hager Gloversyilfo James town Lancaster Metuchen Palmyra Philadel] Phia Pj ttsburgh Marian A, Robinson Beatrice Nielsen 100 150 83 91 162 100 90 79 100 83 100 79 175 75 83 160 90 100 89 140 150 89 125 100 123 100 83 86 Georgia Be HONOR ROLL Relief Society Gettysburg Glasgow Grand Forks Lewiston Miles City Minneapolis Sioux Falls Sumatra Tower Williston Willmar Northern California Fresno East Fresno Klamath Alturas Monterey Bay Pacific Grove Salinas Santa Cruz Watsonville Redwood Arcata Rogue River Ashland Etna Yreka Santa Rosa Lakeport Santa Rosa Sonoma 14 125 12 Subscriptions No. WNNN =_ Ww DRHAoOonrWDNn +S 23 103 Pct. 125 81 175 88 100 76 117 160 100 80 133 115 143 75 88 109 83 75 86 82 100 100 133 Magazine Representative Mildred Sandberg Colleen Walker Lottie Lehew Mabel I. Sawyer Princess Smith Florence E. Synnes Geneva Runeberg Gladys W. Savage Rosmyn A. Bruneau Ellen Grimmer Mabel Lindblad Georgia Markow Blanche Fuller Eva Croshaw Letha M. Nuttall Eva W. Hardwick Claris Matheson Leah Butler Mrs. W. C. Goodman Mary F. Burrows Claricie E. Bounds Alice Murphy Ruth C. Dutra Edith Leshler Martha Fisher Bertha Kingsford Relief Society Grand Rapids Jackson Lansing Central Ohio Columbus Dayton North Ohio Akron Alliance Cleveland South Ohio Cincinnati Wisconsin Eau Claire Lyndhurst Rhinelander Sheboygan Northwestern States Bend Bend John Day Prineville Redmond Butte Deer Lodge Helena Livingston Corvallis Corvallis Lebanon Sweet Home EnrollSubscriptions ment 11 13 16 53 25 21 73 30 11 22 26 No. 12 12 18 50 25 24 63 24 9 18 38 34 14 18 9 B) 74 29 13 12 12 Pet. 109 92 113 94 100 114 86 80 82 82 V7 7? 100 164 75 125 91 94 108 109 100 75 107 100 81 91 94 122 Magazine } Representative Amber H. Davis Millie Smith Annie B. Watt Helen Y. Page Margie Spresser Doris Hunt Beth Price Agnes Murray Mrs. Floyd Randall Hazel Robinson Adeline Taylor Hazel M. Bradshaw Luella Schroeder Selma Hoffman Bertha Brandan Rosalind Henneman Lalovi Harris Lucie Howard Florence M. Silvers Bessie Colomb Irene Butler Lucile Rossiter Idell B. Lee Lucile Hardman Dollie Whitmore Leone E. Burnett 340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 Sequoia 73 Avenal 13 Hanford 16 Shasta Orland 12 Northern States Illinois 93 Clinton 9 Decatur 9 Galesburg 8 Peoria 9 Quincy 4 Springfield 14 Central Indiana 140 Cambridge City 17 Columbus 14 Indianapolis North 29 North Indiana South Bend 9 South Indiana 65 Linton 15 Vincennes 7 East Iowa 67 Bonaparte 5 Tri Cities 22 Waterloo 8 East Michigan 81 Detroit South 11 Pontiac 10 West Michigan 102 Battle Creek 15 11 15 75 85 94 100 79 89 89 111 163 122 125 114 80 82 86 107 100 80 100 171 79 120 105 100 78 100 120 78 80 Martha E. Campbell Sarah C. Thomas Rose H. Parker May Parker Elna P. Haymond Rena P. Custer Lettie Crews Freda Belle Diel Rena P. Custer Mrs. John Diepenbrock Anne Evens Burrows Johanna C. Meissner Ellen R. Clayton Bertha Lilly Mrs. Theodore King Marie Buck Martha Hakes Maza L. Overlade Nellie F. Center Matilda Huber Melba T. Turley Susan Ferguson Dora E. Mostert Ethel Milton Kathleen C. Larson Reba Clark Louise Beauchamp Sophia B. Gordon Shirley Leslie Great Falls Bynum Fort Benton Golden Ridge Kellogg (Independent) McMinnville McMinnville - Tillamook Veronia Woodburn Missoula Allendale Charlo Hamilton Kalispell Polson St. Ignatius Northern Montana Chinook Oregon Oregon City Washougal White Salmon Rainer Auburn Puyallup Southern Oregon Roseburg Wenatchee Grand Coulee Leavenworth Quincy Wenatchee 28 1] 103 26 178 77 100 100 100 111 96 104 167 120 88 85 131 85 83 92 117 100 93 104 127 100 100 81 170 78 129 75 100 112 Beatrice Payne Vilate Stott (Sec.) Maxine McDeede (Sec.) Leah Eddington Ruby Eichert Vera Larsen Mrs. J. S. Winfield Clara Tenney Donna Workman Sarah Farnsworth Bernice T. Allen Esther B. Swainston Edith Neilson Winnie Wendt Venetta Brower Georgia Pierce Lois Webb Vanda Marchant Maude L. Dean Lucy Chesley Margaret Zollinger Naomi Ward Zora Kitchin Leona Hickman Dora M. Love Delma Westover Pauline M. Baird HONOR ROLL 341 Georgia-Florida Douglas Genoa Moultrie Perry Quitman South Georgia Brunswick Ridgeland Savannah Mississip pi Columbia Liberty McNie] Sand Hill North Mississippi Senatobia South Carolina Denmark West South Carolina Rock Hill HONOR ROLL Sco ttsbluff Sheridan 343 Handle With Gloves Ivie H. Jones President, Spanish-American Mission Relief Society W* shall be able to wear our "nylons" a long time if we treat them with due respect. Keep an old pair of cotton gloves in the hose bag where they can be slipped on when removing your hose or putting them on. This is a good practice at any time, but especially when high prices of commodities make economy in all personal and household affairs essential. More hose are snagged from rough hands than from dining-room chair legs, and hose are more often discarded because of snagging than because they are worn out. As a matter of further protection and economy, try classifying your hose and keeping them in small paper bags. Label each bag plainly, giving the necessary information to eliminate the need of putting the hand into the hose to determine which pair is suitable to wear for each occasion. Mt ¢ NYLON RAYON MENDED RUNNER TOE MENDED NYLONS MENO Rainbow Land Marvin Jones I followed a rainbow to its end For a pot of gold—that I could spend— I'd spend it all, I thought, for you, As any lover for his love would do; But where the rainbow touched the land The only gold was yellow sand That rimmed blue pools of useless wishes— Stirred by fins of rainbow fishes... Page 344 346 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 e > Photograph submitted by Ann J. Killpack BIG HORN STAKE, RED LODGE (MONTANA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR Left to right: First Counselor Lois Cozzens, President Theda Lynn; Second Counselor Hazel Updegraff; work director Augusta Crow. This branch was organized January 28, 1948 and a year later held its first bazaar. There are thirteen members enrolled and there were on sale 200 articles. The picture shows only part of the beautiful displays which included a large assortment of crocheted and hand-embroidered articles, as well as children's clothing, layette articles, and many decorative items for the home. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 347 Red Lodge Branch was organized under the direction of Sister Ann J. Killpack, former president, North Central States Mission Relief Society, but it is now included in Big Horn Stake, of which Amelia H. Robertson is Relief Society president. Photograph submitted by Vida Fugal Swenson UTAH STAKE, PROVO THIRD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY COMPLETES MAGAZINE PROJECT—BOUND VOLUMES (1-34) MADE INTO A PERMANENT COLLECTION Shown looking at Volume 1 of The Relief Society Magazine, seated, left to right: Esthma C. Tanner and Secretary-Treasurer Nellie B. Bullock. Standing, left to right: Second Counselor Nellie R. Mecham; President Vida F. Swenson; First Counselor Alice B. Stephenson. In describing this outstanding accomplishment, Sister Swenson reports: "Had it not been for Sister Esthma Tanner, a devout member of our Relief Society, now seventyeight years old, we may not have begun this project. She said to the presidency: 'I have kept all of my Magazines, and have many of the earlier numbers. It would make me happy to place them where they would do the most good.' And so our collection began. We invited the membership to bring in as many Magazines as they could.... We contacted all our older members, out of-town people, and the Relief Society general board office.... Finally, all we lacked was one Magazine in volume 1." This precious number was secured, and in August 1948 the collection was complete and the ward Relief Society officers had all the volumes bound. Then they supplied the material, and the president's husband, A. Alfred Swenson, built an appropriate cabinet for housing the books. On December 7, 1948, this complete, beautiful, and priceless set of books, arranged in the cabinet, was presented to the Provo Third Ward Relief Society as a Christmas gift. Sister Swenson suggests: "While early Magazines yet exist, may other groups feel the desire to secure a full set for themselves, that this choice material may be preserved as a cherished treasure for generations to come." Josephine S. Bird is president of Utah Stake Relief Society. 348 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 Photograph submitted by Helen Hassell NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, ASHLAND (OREGON) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ASSEMBLES IN NEW CHAPEL FOR OPENING SOCIAL October 1948 Left to right, beginning with the third person, front row: Mary Burrows, district aid; Helen Hassell, President, Ashland Branch Relief Society; Marion Lusk, First This active and enthusiastic branch was organized three years ago with eight members. There is now an enrollment of forty-five active members. At the opening social each class leader presented a review of the lesson material for 1948-49. These talks were interspersed with readings and musical selections. Refreshments were served to conclude the pleasant afternoon. "We truly enjoy the spirit of the Lord," Sister Mary S. Ellsworth is president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society. Photograph by Norman Johnson, Roanoke, Virginia, Submitted by Maggie Snow CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION, CHARLOTTESVILLE (VIRGINIA ) RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN AID IN CHAPEL BUILDING PROJECT Front row, left to right: Second Counselor Goldie Dawson; First Counselor Flor. Ence Dudley; President Maggie Snow. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 349 Second row, left to right: Secretary Irene Dunn; Viola Snow; Betty McBride; Sister Henderson. Third row, left to right: Catherine Chellis; Mary Davis; Phyllis Wells. Back row, left to right: Alberta Wells; Doris Dudley; Elizabeth Hamm; Mary E. Dean; Hattie Davis; Francis Pritchett. At the dedicatory services for the Charlottesville chapel, President J. Robert Price of the Central Atlantic States Mission, paid special tribute to the Relief Society women who "'put their shoulders to the wheel.... And with many hours of cooking, sewing, and saving, they helped to bring the chapel project to completion." Built on the main road which leads to the historic home of Thomas Jefferson, "Monticello," this chapel will stand as a testimony to the divinity of the message of the restored gospel. The chapel was recently dedicated by President Bruce R. McConkie of the First Council of Seventy. Mabel A. Price is president of the Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Opal Broadbent LYMAN STAKE (WYOMING), LYMAN WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE HIGH RECORD FOR 1948 First row, third from the left: Emily Bleumel, age seventy-three, who has been a visiting teacher for thirty-four years. For twenty-five years of this time Sister Bleumel and Sister Annie Eardley (deceased) were partners, missing their calls only twice in all the twenty-five years. In her young womanhood, Sister Bleumel and her companion traveled in a wagon, leaving their homes early in the morning and returning just before dark. Second row, at the right: Irene Platts, President, Lyman Ward Relief Society, and mother of sixteen children. Third row, at right: Opal Broadbent, President, Lyman Stake Relief Society. Sister Broadbent reports that a record of 100 per cent was made for the year, with the exception of one district which was not visited one month. Of the eighteen districts, nine are in the country, where the distances average six to twenty miles per visit. 350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 x a g + ths Photograph submitted by Louisa Stephens MONTPELIER STAKE (IDAHO), MONTPELIER FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY DISPLAYS SIX BEAUTIFUL QUILTS Left to right: Second Counselor Anna Cochran; First Counselor Mable Hansen; President Mary Wilkes (seated); Secretary-Treasurer Lillian Dimick; work meeting director Clara Smith. These six beautifully designed and carefully made quilts were all completed during October and November 1948. Louisa Stephens is president of Montpelier Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Abby W. Webb DAVIS STAKE (UTAH), FARMINGTON FIRST WARD, ELEVEN RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Front row, left to right: Lucy Hess, first Relief Society president of the ward; Millie Wood; Lyle Warnock; Gertrude Ellis. Back row, left to right: Gorgenia Young; Ethel Udy; Lillie Hepworth; Lizzie Boylin; Margaret Hess; Kate Whitney; Effie T. Apple. Abby W. Webb is president of Davis Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 351 Photograph submitted by Margaret M. Peterson NORWEGIAN MISSION, STAVANGER BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR November 26, 1948 This very successful bazaar consisted of displays of exquisite handwork, toys, clothing, household ornaments, cakes, and pastries. Note the lovely lamp shade in the center of the photograph and the quilt in the background. Sister Margaret M. Peterson, President, Norwegian Mission Relief Society, reports as follows: ""The work in the mission is going forward and bazaars are being held in practically all the branches." Photograph submitted by Bethyal Lund BEAVER STAKE (UTAH), MILFORD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR December 10, 1948 Seated, left to right: Gertrude Fisher; Steven Fisher; Cora Jones; Ina Norton; Secretary-Treasurer Bethyal Lund; Second Counselor Maxine Barton; First Counselor Jessie Frazier; Cassie McKnight; President Hazel Kesler; Hannah Smith; Verna Tomsick; Cuma Goodwin; Mary Johnson; Jane Lang; Maude Stoker; Mildred Wilcock.. Phylis S. Warr is president of Beaver Stake Relief Society. YOU MIGHT HAVE WAITED You Might Have Waited (Continued from page 304) "Tell me about it, please," she asked, politely hiding her eagerness. "Well," Miss 'Tyndale said, "if you can stand a garrulous old woman a while longer, I'll tell you the story." Miss Tyndale flashed a smile that on anyone else would have been described as cryptic, on her it was half amusement. "One day," she began, "my youngest brother Ned came home from school with a friend. They must have been arguing, for the friend insisted I was going to marty 'T'om Wallcrist." "Who was Tom Wallcrist? I never heard of him," Nan cut in. "Tom Wallcrist was a young man with a plodding gait and a plodding heart, but he had a spark of fire in him." Her smile this time was for some secret memory in her heart. "Ned," she said, taking up the story again, "didn't like the idea of my marrying 'Tom. He came rushing in, all upset. "<7 was in the kitchen, down on my hands and knees scrubbing the floor. 'Jen,' he said, his face tortured, 'you aren't going to marry Tom Wallcrist, are you?' "T didn't know exactly what had gone on, but I guessed. More to comfort him than anything else, I said as I wrung out the mop cloth, 'I wouldn't marry Tom Wallcrist if he was the last man on earth.' "That satisfied him. He rushed out to his friend and said, 'Jen isn't going to marry Tom Wallcrist. She says She wouldn't do it if he was the last man on earth.'" 353 We Recommend These TWO COLLECTIONS for every SINGING MOTHERS Music Library Sacred Choruses—(Hansen) SSA.75 Angels, Ever Bright and Fair—Handel At Eventide, It Shall Be Light—Gaul But the Lord Is Mindful of His Own— Mendelssohn Eye Hath Not Seen—Gaul For Thee, O Dear, Dear Country—Gaul God So Loved the World—Stainer He Shall Feed His Flock—Handel The Holy City—Adams I Will Sing of Thy Great Mercies— Mendelssohn Lift Thine Eyes—Mendelssohn Lord, Bow Thine Ear—Mendelssohn O, Holy Night—Adam Open the Gates of the Temple—Knapp These Are They Which Came—Gaul Fox Library Collection, Vol. I (secular) SSA 85 A Japanese Sunset—Deppen I Love a Little Cottage—O'Hara Indian Dawn—Zamecnik In the Heart of the Hills—Lee Lassie O'Mine—Walt Little Bluebird of My Heart—Grey Love Came Calling—Zamecnik Magnolia Bloom—Bernd Neapolitan Nights—Zamecnik One Fleeting Hour—Lee Out of the Dusk to You—Lee Sometime—Somehow—Somewhere—Wallace The Prayer Perfect—Stenson The Little Old Garden—Hewitt To Sing Awhile—Drummond We specialize in music for L. D. S. Choral groups of all types. Write for information. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. We pay postage. We also have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home and school, all types of musical instruments, including Steinway and Lester pianos; and musical accessories. FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY 2 Muse Co MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 9, UTAH 354 This AD Is VALUABLE TO RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS To the bearer, we will allow a Discount of $9500 on won Toward the purchase of any New or Used Piano in our stock, if presented by July I, 1949, Call or write for information Just Off Press—ll4 easy Piano arrangements of L. D. S. Hymns by Seldon N. Heaps. List sent on request. SUMMERHAYS MUSIC €0. 17 W. Ist South Salt Lake City PLAN NOW TO ENROLL - - BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY SUMMER QUARTER First Term: June 13 to July 22 Second Term: July 25 to August 26 SPECIAL FEATURES ELEVENTH ANNUAL MUSIC FESTIVAL FIFTH ANNUAL BAND AND ORCHESTRA CLINIC FAMILY LIFE INSTITUTE STUDENT PERSONNEL AND GUIDANCE INSTITUTE WORKSHOP FOR JOURNALISM ADVISERS LECTURES—CONCERTS—RECITATIONS A broad offering of Graduate and Undergraduate courses will be taught by the strong d Faculty augmented by Visiting Specialists. An added feature this year will be Leadership Week, which will be held in conjunction with Summer School. Write the Dean for a Summer School Catalog BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO. UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 "What happened then?" Nan was breathless with curiosity. "Nothing," Miss' Tyndale said, matter-of-fact. "I was mortified for a minute, then I dismissed it as childish nonsense. You know how everyone talks in a small town. Within an hour I'd completely forgotten it. I didn't even think of it, when a man called me from the gate that evening. "T went out to see, and there was Tom. He was standing stiff as a rod on the other side of the fence. I walked up to him, but before I could get out a 'good evening' he stopped me by saying, "You might have waited until I asked youl' He didn't say another word, just turned his back and walked away." "But didn't he come back?" Nan insisted. "No, he didn't." Miss Tyndale scooped up a last handful of berries, her wrinkled face bland. "He left town right after that. He went out to Colorado and did right well in the cattle business—or so I've heard." "Oh, dear,' Nan's voice was a wail, "it shouldn't have ended that way. You should have gone after him and explained." "What was there to explain?" Miss Tyndale's voice was some eighty years mild. "You should have gone after him anyway," Nan insisted. Miss Tyndale's laugh was free from remorse. "Girls didn't 'go after men' in those days. Anyway, I'd have been too shy to say anything." So that was it! Nan saw it all in swift comprehension. Miss Tyndale had been too shy. I should have known it, Nan told herself. She YOU MIGHT HAVE WAITED wanted to call Winkie and say, | "Look long upon this face. In her you have touched hands with the past." Winkie, she realized, was too young. She could only hope that in the years to come, some remembrance of Miss Tyndale's face, some inflection of her quiet voice, or some fragrance from her garden would remain. With swift compassion, Nan took Miss Tyndale's wrinkled face between her strong young hands and kissed the startled lady on her furrowed cheek. "I'm glad you stayed," she whispered, her voice constricted with emotion. Miss 'Tyndale's usually steady hands were shaking. "I declare," she said, "I didn't know it was so late. You get that child of yours and we'll go in the house for a cookie. "You know," she told Nan as she led the way into the house," I think the view of the valley is even prettier from the living room this time of day." Table Settings and Flower Arrangements (Continued from page 319) ric with "pinked" edges, and are ridiculously cheap to make. Make a hole in the center of the circle, slip the stick through, twist the material ever so slightly and fasten it to the stick with Scotch tape. Attach a loop of ribbon to the botton of the stick for a handle in case you want to string them on ribbons, tie a bow on each, and there you are!. You can make one in almost as little time as it takes to give these directions. 355 Professional de Social Stationery R COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah RONIE JOHNSON SALT LAKE MONUMENT COMPANY Phone 4-4025 Same Location Since 1890 186 N Street Opposite Main Entrance City Cemetery Salt Lake City 356 NNN NNN NAN NQNANQANAAAN "Know Your Utahns" Listen to Golden Memories every Sunday 9:45 a. M. On Station KDYL. And read about them in Sunday "Deseret News." Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary The Same Personal Service to All Regardless of Lost The cost is a matter of your own desire. Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck 125 No. Main Salt Lake City CLLRRBRRARRERERRRERRERT A Great Business College PLUS our L. D. S. Institute of Religion—both under the general direction of the L. D. S. Church Department of Education. Beginning and advanced training, the year round. Expert employment service for graduates and advanced students. Returned Missionaries: You will injoy the activities of our missionary organization, Information gladly furnished on L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah request. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 A Pattern for Christine (Continued from page 297) But it was always good. Was it because of Mama? Boiling water, with dry bread broken in it, and salt and pepper and butter. Christine set the table and turned the chairs facing outward. "Come, Donnie," called Mama. Each knelt by a chair. "Donnie, will you—?" "Dear Heavenly Father, thank thee for this day and..." with Mama's help he finished. "What a nice, close-of-the-day prayer, Donnie," whispered Mama. They sat at the table, eyes lowered, arms folded. "Christine—" ",.. And for this bread we thank thee..." "Amen." ' "Please pass a piece of Christine's cake," ventured Naaman, slyly, recompensed when Christine glared at him. "Well, you cut it like cake, in wedges." "Look at the slices Mama cuts. They're straight," shrilled Donnie. Why did Donnie have to speak so umnecessarily loud, thought Christine, as she looked enviously at the even brown slices Mama had cut. "Maybe it's the knife," said Mama. "Maybe it's tired. It's getting very old, you know. It crossed the plains with Grandma. "Was it an Indian knife, Mama?" Naaman was excited at the thought. "To scalp with?" added Donnie. "Donnie!" Christine looked at him disgustedly. "After all, we're eating!" "Oh, no," Mama put in, "nothing so romantic. Just one from a A PATTERN FOR CHRISTINE hardware store in Kirtland, one of the few not burned by the mobs. Grandpa used to sharpen it out here in the orchard on the old grindstone." "Did you help?" shouted Donnie. "I put drops of water, from a can, on the stone as he ground. But oh, just so much water; not too many drops." "May I be excused, Mama; I'm finished?" asked Donnie. "Certainly, dear." Donnie lay on the floor, one foot in the air. "It feels so good, Mama; it feels so good to have a sliver in your foot." "Christine, dear, will you clear the dishes while I take care of Donnie, please?" "Sure, Mama." Mama filled the washbowl with hot soapy water and put it on a chair beside her rocker. She sat in the rocker and held out her arms. "Come here, Donnie, I have a story to tell you. "A story, goodie!" He limped over and climbed on her lap. "Have you seen Dr. Johnson driying his fine horse and buggy around town?" "With his black bag." supplied Donnie. "Well, Naaman says, some day he is going to be the doctor and drive such a fine horse and buggy." "Me, too," interrupted Donnie, "I'm going to have a bigger buggy; a long square one with fringes, like Brother Nolte's. And a gray, spotted horse. Brother Nolte let me hold the reins and put the buggy whip back in the holder." "Wouldn't you like a fine doctor 357 CG "Satisfaction: (uaranteed SEARS ea ROEBUCK AND CO. Money Back!" You can't lose at Sears! In the first place all Sears merchandise is first quality tested in our laboratory, specified at the factory, then field tested under actual "in-use" conditions. Nothing human is infallible. So, just on the long chance that some time something might slip through, we say to you in all sincerity and good faith: "If anything you ever get from Sears doesn't make good—SEARS = saps Main or State at 8th South Salt Lake City Dial 5-665] PARK FREE Burial Chthes Relief Society General Board furnishes BURIAL CLOTHING for CHILDREN and ADULTS yr Address: 28 Bishop's Building 'Salt Lake City 1, Utah UBOBUE 358 like that to take care of your foot?" Mama looked up at Naaman. 'Naaman, please dear; I can't see slivers very well any more. Will you 2? "No, no," shrieked Donnie. Naaman held up a beautiful glass marble, flecked with color. "You can hold it." "Will you play a game with me?" bargained Donnie. "Tf you don't bawl." THE blue twilight slowly claimed the quiet, country town, circled in the sure, close embrace of the hills. The are light on the corner blinked and then flared its pale, morning-glory of light on the wide, dirt road. Children seeped from all the homes in the neighborhood, whooping. "R-uvn, my sheep, run " Christine tingled with delight. It was delicious. It was heaven. A young, brown elbow touched her own in the dusk; patched overalls, in running, brushed her faded apron. The dusk air twined her curls with coolness and washed her with ecstacy.... The curfew tolled across the summer night and the street grew still again. When they went in Mama was ironing Mrs. Boyne's beautiful, embroidered pillowslips. "Oh, Mama, save one for me to iron." "The prettiest, the very prettiest, Pll save for you to iron tomorrow, because you iron so well, Christine. You'll soon be too much competition for me. And now to bed, and don't forget your secret prayers, because that's the way to get the things you need and sometimes even the things you want, if they're right for you to have." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 Mama tucked the sheet over Chnistine and kissed her twice. "Oh, Mama, I love you." "And I love you. It's such fun to have a little girl. Just wait and see,' Mama whispered gaily, and then went back to her ironing.... EK OK OK ¢STUST wait and see "Oh, Mama!' Christine's head fell to her arms on the machine, and all the rest of the bitterness sobbed out of her in a silent prayer. Mama, brave, wonderful, cheerful Mama Christine opened her eyes and sat up. Someone seemed to be near. Cherished words came back to her —oh, not in tones her ears could hear, but in words her heart could understand. It was the remembrance of Mama. Her mother's smile, her words, seemed to return in vividness and beauty. Mama would always be here with her. She would never be alone. Christine sat looking at the summer gold that lay outside, and she felt a deep contentment. She was comforted. She drew her eyes back to the unfinished sewing. The pattern sheet, yes, the pattern, Mama had always said that if the pattern was good, she would be wise to follow it until she grew adept enough to devise her own. Her confident hand patted the folded paper. Tomorrow, she would finish the sewing. She would use the pattern. She heard the scrunch of Dave's anxious, hurried steps on the walk, and caught the sound to her singing heart. The door opened. "Christine, | Christine,. Herm?" Bright with her old smile, she moved into his arms. How's Auerbach's Makes It Easy For You To Knit Yourself A Dress Knitting is an easy and fascinating hobby. Auerbach's gives FREE knitting lessons with all yarn purchased. Minerva Yarns: <a MONTEREY, all wool knubby-yarn ae..80c ounce VELVEEN, 71% wool, 29% rayon, shiny rayon thread 80¢ ounce Cost of handknit dregs pictured..$21 Minerva pattern book containing a marvelous collection of dress patTEMNS 22. Ee eee cece cence eee eee.25¢ ART NEEDLEWORK AUERBACH'S FOURTH FLOOR Auerbach's, State and Broadway Salt Lake City, Utah book..25c. Or Monterey Yarn. Color State Utahns, please add 2% sales tax. Please send me copies of the Minerva Pattern Please send me 00 0..0 - ounces of Minerva Velveen NCCC Please add 25 cents to cover mailing and insurance. From Tlear and Sar "A Pattern for Christine," 15 Dorothy Roberts' first short story, but she is wellee i known to our readers as a poet and writer of articles. Fay Tarlock, author of "You Might Have Waited," is 4 frequent contributor to the Magazine. A note regarding het work appeared in June 1948. I want to take this occasion to tell you how very much I enjoy the Magazine. The three prize-winning poems and the first prize story (by Estelle Webb Thomas) in the January 1949 issue are WOT derful, as well as everything the Magazine contains. Lord's blessings continue with you in the great work you are doing. _-Annie Boss, Paris, Idaho I surely like the February (1949) issue. Everything ls lovely. __Frances C. Yost, Bancroft, Idaho I read the Magazine from cover to COV" er and do not miss one thing, put would like to single out the story "We Are So Busy" (March 1949) as having a special inspirational value for all who may Pprocrastinate their generosity and acts of kindness. —Delores T. Lindsay, Sparks, Nevada I am a reader of Magazine from month to month, and must congratulate you upon the excellence of the material that you present, and also upon the editorial arrangement, which is equally good. The Lord bless you in his great work, and may he conyou with strength. —John A. Widtsoe, Member, Council of the Twelve, Salt Lake City, Utah 1 was thrilled more than you can know at seeing excerpts from my to you printed in the February Relief Society Magazine. It produced a wave of fan mail from Missouri to Utah to Oregon. Guess, aS 4 writer, 1 have arrived, eh? Thank you and always best of fortune to you and the fine work you are doing. Bert C. Mitchell, Salem, Oregon It is gratifying to have a poem in your March _ issue ("Sky Writing') along with Alice Morrey Bailey's "I Have Seen Aspens." Her craftsmanship with words takes one into the mountains through the seasons and defies ever forgetting the aspen valleys. Cameron John's "Art Teacher' is It brings more than just a slight lump to The short stories, "Compromise" (by Mildred R. Stutz) and "We Are so Busy" (by Sylvia Probst Young) in the March Magazine are entertaining sermons without sermonizing. | am thankful for both of them. —Susa Gould Walker, Panguitch, Utah I have enjoyed my first year SO VETY much with this beautiful, inspiring book. The information I have gained from studies with it has been of great worth, opening a new understanding of a won an's life and work by following the gos pel teachings. ~—Ruth Neil (English wat widow), Canada Tonight Sister Pehrson and I have been talking about the fi i Society work gives to the women of the Church. Sister Pehrson had so many good things to say about the Magazine that we month, from cover to cover, the wonderful lessons, the excellent editorials. The stories are good company i ter days. She would not exchange the Magazine for anything in the world. __Lucile Bennion and Christine Pehrson, Vernon, Utah Every Good Book You Read Enriches You On the Way to Immortality and Eternal WS ee3.00 By President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. A historical exposition of the background out of which the Gospel was restored, showing the need for the restoration of the way to immortality and eternal life. The Vitality of Mormonism _ 52.00 By James E. Talmage This popular collection of classical essays on Gospel themes from the incomparable pen of a scholar and master is in great demand. Joseph Smith, an American Prophet _ $3.25 By John Henry Evans An ever popular expository biography designed to help non-Mormons understand and appraise Joseph Smith fairly and accurately. DESERET BOOK COMPANY OFFICIAL PUBLISHERS AND DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City 10, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers INE 1949 _ 
