THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELYEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - ~ - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Aleine M. Young Nellie W. Neal Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - ° < - - ~ Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 36 SEPTEMBER 1949 No. 9 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Mormon Handicraft Shop by Ethel C. Smith 580 Relief Society Building News 586 Zion National Park by Willard Luce 591 Suggestions for a Work Meeting Luncheon by Christine Eaton 603 FICTION Tempered—Part I by Gladys I. Hamilton 587 Martha, Papoose of the Great Spirit by James C. Young 605 Joanna—Chapter 9 by Margery S. Stewart 608 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 596 Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 597 Editorial: Women Who Sew Together by Vesta P. Crawford 598 Notes to the Field: Annual General Relief Society Conference 599 Buying Textbooks for Relief Society Lessons 599 Annual Report—1948 by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 610 Notes From the Field: Anniversary Parties, Bazaars, and Other Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 627 From Near and Far 648 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Patchwork Quilts by Alice Whitson Norton 585 The Making and Use of Decorative Candles by Mary Grant Judd 600 Edith Bunn Makes Unique Wagon-Wheel Rugs by Mirinda Knapp 602 Wastebaskets Where You Want Them by Rachel K. Laurgaard 604 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: "Continuation of the Perean and Judean Ministry" by Don B. Colton 633 Visiting Teacher Messages: "These Things I Have Spoken Unto You" by Mary Grant Judd 638 Work Meeting—Sewing: Children's Clothing by Jean Ridges Jennings 639 Literature: The Poet Shakespeare by Briant S. Jacobs 640 POETRY Poplar Magic—Frontispiece by Ruth Harwood 579 Tranquility by Celia Van Cott 585 Autumn Winds by Dorothy J. Roberts 585 Autumn by Margaret B. Shomaker 586 That He May Know by LeRoy Burke Meagher 590 Song by Sylvia Probst Young 595 The Heart by Essie M. Robinson 601 Marriage by Grace Sayre 604 Blue Hills by Helen Gee Woods 607 Reprint of Shakespeare's Sonnet 73 626 Interval by Evelyn Fjeldsted 637 A Friend Like You by Hilde Wittemund 647 My Valley by Jeanette P. Parry 647

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, l5c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, givng both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicted. Manyscripts. A Black. Size "oii Willard Luce POPLAR TREES ar 

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 36, NO. 9 SEPTEMBER 1949 Poplar Magic Ruth Harwood One tall golden taper of a poplar tree in autumn! With sudden magic, the long years vanish And I am once more in my own loved homeland, In the valley of the high, snow-covered mountains, Clear blue at morming and glowing roseate with sunset. Honeysuckle, delicate, sweet fragrance of remembering, Swaying goldenglow, tall banks of jt. Now blooming, And evening ptimroses, with dusk dreams soft around them. Oh, all beloved flowers are blooming here together In the gracious tender season of the heart's remembering! Rich treasures to behold through the magic portal Of one tall golden taper of a poplar tree in autumn! The Cover: The Mormon Handicraft Shop, Photograph by Hal Rumel. The Mormon Handicraft Shop Ethel C. Smith Member, General Board of Relief Society THE beautiful new face of the Mormon Handicraft Shop smiles a welcome from the front cover of this Magazine, and bids us enter through its wide, sparkling glass door. Come in with me and see its newly decorated interior and the lovely handmade articles that can be glimpsed through the modem windows. As the door closes noiselessly behind us, we find ourselves surrounded by exquisite handwork of all descriptions. The soft, warm tones of rose and green on the walls and ceiling make a perfect background for the displays on the center tables and in the shelves and cases lining each side of the room. If it is your first visit to this unique store, I know you are wondering where all of these beautiful articles came from and why they are being sold hcre. So, before we make our tour of the shop, let me tell you what the Mormon Courtesy The Deseret News Eye-catching arrangements of gaily colored pot holders, hot pads, tea towels, monogrammed beach bags, lamps, and dolls of many kinds. One popular item in this display is a set of hot pads made by a young man who is bedfast and unable to move from his back. By means of a mirror suspended above the bed, he weaves these attractive pads, thus bringing to himself a small income as well as the joy and satisfaction of accomplishment. Page 580 THE MORMON HANDICRAFT SHOP Hale Renvel 581 -_ = 4 th & € ey: ve i%. I Aw. A eos Oo) whi s. A center display of lovely baby things—a snow-white blanket of feathery softness, every thread of which is woven by hand; a pale pink and blue crib quilt with hundreds of unbelievably tiny stitches nestling among its folds to outline a dainty pattern. There are dresses and bonnets for girl babies, rompers and visored caps for boy babies; and bibs and bootees of all descriptions. Many of the beautiful crocheted articles for babies sold through the shop are made by an elderly woman, who relives, with each one she makes, the joy she had with her own babies, at the same time she is helping to maintain herself financially. Handicraft Shop is, why it was started, and how it operates. The Mormon Handicraft Shop is a medium through which those persons having skill in the handicraft arts may offer their work for sale, and where others, desiring to beautify their homes, or seeking gifts for the enjoyment of friends, may purchase such art work. It stands as a symbol of the compassion and love carried in the heart of a beloved general president of Relief Society for those women affected by the depression of the "thirties." It is a monument to the culture and industry of our pioneer grandmothers, whose skills and crafts have been preserved throughout the years in Latter-day Saint families. In 1937, under the direction of President Louise Y. Robison, with the approval of the Presiding Bishopric, the Relief Society organized the Mormon Handicraft Shop for these purposes: to provide an outlet for the handwork of women desiting to supplement the family income by working in their own homes; to preserve the handicraft arts of Latter-day Saint women of many nationalities; and to develop and increase appreciation for fine workmanship. The work of the shop is carried on under the direction of the general presidency of Relief Society and is furthered by a committee of general board members and an advisory committee composed of THE MORMON HANDICRAFT SHOP widows have been able to feed and clothe their children more adequately; and indigent elderly persons have been able to help themselves. The Mormon Handicraft Shop operates as a non-profit store. In order to continue as a going business, however, it must be self-supporting. Overhead expenses are met mainly by charging contributors a yearly membership fee of one dollar, and by retaining twenty-five per cent of the selling price of each article sold. During the summer tourist season, sales are usually sufficient to allow the shop to support itself. However, during the remainder of the year when the shop 583 must depend largely on local trade for its support, it is regrettable that such trade is not always of adequate volume to provide the funds necessary to meet operating expenses. HIS brief review of the history of the shop and its worthy purposes should bring to us the realization that we, as members of Relief Society, are actually stockholders in this business. We have a personal responsibility toward this "child" of Relief Society, which we can discharge by patronizing the shop and by acquainting our friends and associates with its fine purposes, as well as with the beautiful and useful articles sold here. Hal Rumel Proving an irresistible attraction to all who enter the shop is this beautiful exhibit of ceramic figurines, vases, plaques and dishes, artistically designed, fragile and lovely, with their trimmings of lace and flowers. 584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 Hal Rumel Here, at the top of a carpeted stairway, is the "Trousseau Room," with its quaint pioneer atmosphere. The spread on the four-poster bed is truly an heirloom piece; and thrown across the bed is a pieced quilt, its gay, blending colors forming the familiar "Double Wedding Ring" pattern. In a large case at another end of the room are other pieced quilts of many patterns, and numerous lace bedspreads, some white and some ecru, all different in design. Next to this is a display of rugs in a variety of sizes and shapes—some braided and some woven. One particularly attractive, evenly braided rug is a sample of many that have been made by a woman who suffers from arthritis. At the other end of this room stands an ald-fashioned walnut wardrobe, its open doors inviting us to look at the rows of embroidered, lace-trimmed pillow cases, towels, and luncheon sets, especially designed to delight the eye of a prospective bride. S we descend the stairway, we can see in the main room of the self, I hope you will remember the worthy purposes for which the shop shop many other beautiful things which we have not had time to examine. I know you will want to come back again soon and see them all. And whenever you come in to purchase a gift for a friend or to choose something lovely for yourwas started, and those whom your purchases will help. As we leave the unique Mormon Handicraft Shop and pass once more through its wide glass portal, I am sure you feel, with me, a deeper appreciation for this fine Relief Society Building News The names of the following stake, ward, and mission districts and branches have not previously been published in The Relief Society Magazine as having completed their Building Fund quotas. Bic Horn STAKE LovELL Warp Azalea City Branch, Southern States Tutuila District, Samoan Mission Mission* Western Savaii District, Samoan Eastern Savaii District, Samoan Mission Mission Eastern Upolu District, Samoan Mission Western Upolu District, Samoan Malaela Branch, Samoan Mission Mission Pesega Branch, Samoan Mission *Through an oversight this branch was not listed, as it should have been, in the Magazine for September 1948. Ae ated Autumn Margaret B. Shomaker A strange enchantment lies upon the land, As leaves from green to golden yellow tum And nature smiles to touch with magic hand Emollient balm to leaf-thin tree and fern. And in the blue sky overhead is swung A golden harvest moon to lead and light The way for shoals of tiny stars among The cool, gray shadows of the autumn night. Encircled low, the bending meadow grass Is tiny flutes, with music liquid clear To catch the sparkling sunbeams as they pass. Bright symphonies of earth and sky cohere Until each flower, bush, and tree is told To wrap the autumn day in fragrant gold. Page 586 Tempered PART I Gladys I. Hamilton ARNET BLENDALL tried to appear natural as she stood on tiptoe to kiss her husband, Lee, goodbye. Then, quite casually, she plucked a minute speck of lint from her father-in-law's rough whipcord coat. Her blue eyes were sad, and within herself was a cold numbness, overlaid with a sincere regret and an aching weariness. Only she knew that her kiss was to be a final one as Lee's wife. Her marriage had failed and she was running out! Senior Blendall, known to his associates as "Old Granite," cast his fierce gray eyes skyward and temarked, 'A weather-breeder, Lee, sure as you're born!" 'Then he turned to the quiet woman in the wheelchair, put his hand tenderly on her shoulder and pressed gently. "Well, so long, Mother." "Be careful, Grant." His wife's thin voice quavered slightly, then her eyes turned toward her tall son. "Take good care of your Pa, Lee. He's always so careless of hoof and horn when he goes to the stockyards," "T will, Mom," Lee promised, "but you and Garnet are the ones to take care of yourselves while we're away." A worried look flicked across his fine bronzed face as he bent to kiss his invalid mother. 'Then again, with almost an air of shyness, he caught Garnet up to him in a great, crushing bear hug. "We'll only be gone three hoe Honey. Smith'll look after the chores for you. You won't need to worry about any of that." But old Grant turned at Lee's words and glared at his daughterin-law. "Don't you forget to remind Smith about that special feed and clean bedding for those new cows." "I won't, Father," Garnet promised for the fourth time since the men had planned to ship the yearlings to Denver. The new cows in question were Shorthorns, and the small beginning of still another sideline on the broad acres of the Blendall Ranch, two registered females and a very young calf, from one of the nation's foremost breeders. 'They were valuable, and very dear to the elder Blendall's heart. Most of the three thousand acres of "Wheatlands" was utilized for raising wheat and feed for the beef cattle. Lee and his father managed the entire ranch with the help of a hired man, Smith, who lived with his family at the far edge of the ranch. After they left, Garnet went about her work as usual. Mother Blendall talked little when her men were in the house, but she spoke scarcely at all when she was alone with her daughter-in-law. Her great brown eyes were the most alive thing about her, and at times they seemed to speak volumes that the unaccustomed lips could not voice; then again, they were blank and unreadable. "How can I make her like me?". Beat incessantly in Garnet's mind. Page 587 588 "What is she thinking? Why won't she let me show her that I really want to be one of the family?" OTHER BLENDALL was not entirely helpless, for she had the use of her hands to sew, knit, or prepare the vegetables each day. Moving about in her chair, she worked hour after hour in silence. "A weather-breeder.... What did Father mean by that?" Garnet spoke with an interest she did not especially feel, but anything was better than this silence, broken only by the incessant clicking of those steel knitting needles. "I never saw a more beautiful December day! It's as warm and clear outside as a crystal ball. Why, the mountains seem close enough to touch." Garnet looked out at the blue-white day. The needles clicked on. A log in the fireplace broke with a snap. The old-fashioned striking clock ticked loudly. Garnet had about decided that the older woman would not be drawn into trivial conversation. Then, finally, Mrs. Blendall spoke. "There's weather coming. I feel it." There was another silence, then she continued, "A still, toowarm day in winter means wind or snow or both, here in Colorado." "The expression was new to me " Garnet said. "T'm sure it was!" came the short reply. Garnet could almost feel the words she knew her mother-in-law was thinking. What would a frilly, city doll know about weather-breeders, or Shorthorns, or spring wheat or any phase of farm life? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 Garnet smothered the sigh of defeat that rose to her lips and went into the large, sunny room that was her own and Lee's. It was the only place where she ever felt the least bit like her old self. She pulled the heavy calfskin cases from under the bed and finished the packing she had started earlier. She planned to leave about two hours before the men returned. That way Mother Blendall would not be alone for very long. She would also ask Mrs. Smith to sit with her for awhile. These first months of her marriage had been so difficult and bitter, yet very sweet, too, for she loved Lee with all her heart. But even that love could not help her endure the gruff insults of her father-in-law, nor the impassive, antagonistic silences of Lee's mother. Mother and Father Blendall had been shocked when Lee married the little Southern girl whom he had known but two short weeks. Just a "thrill bride" they called her, but Lee and Garnet both knew that two weeks—or two years, it would have made no difference, it would still have been the same tender, enduring love. They were happy and carefree when they went home to Wheatlands, but the scene which followed her advent into the Blendall family would be a hard one for Garnet ever to forget. During the course of words and burning looks, she learned that Lee's father and mother had fondly dreamed that he would some day marry "Micky" Donaldson, a sturdy, capable neighbor girl who rode broncos like the wind, and handled TEMPERED her tractor as expertly as her coupe. She even owned her own plaue! ICKY was a marvel of efficiency, while Garnet was as inexperienced and inadequate as a singing canary! She might be pretty, and sweet, and happy-natured, but she wasn't made for vigorous farm work, "You need a wife and a helpmeet... Not a little, deep-South, sho' nuff belle," old Grant had roared. She remembered how Lee's mouth had set, and his chin squared out at his father's words. "How do you know that she isn't both, Sir? Give her a chance to show you what she can do, before you condemn her. She at least is willing to learn!" "Please, Mother and Father Blendall," Garnet cut in, "I love Lee, and I do want to make him a good wife. And you a good daughter." The explosion ended then and there, but she had only been patiently endured, never accepted wholeheartedly into the family. Lee's position was far from comfortable, she knew, torn between two obligations, as he was. And as time went on the breach would widen until he would be forced to take sides, a difficult thing to do. Lee's parents had been married for ten years before he was born, the only child of their union; and then they were no longer young. His mother had been a cripple ever since. So they had relied upon him and his young strength for everything. The two long years that he was in the army, were times they never spoke about, and only Smith saw and knew the loneliness they endured. 589 Some of it Smith told to Garnet. She felt like a guilty interloper. So, before she caused any more unhappiness, she intended to take herself out of Lee's life, before their love for each other turned to bitterness and disrespect. And she would keep her child, the baby that could, by the very laws of nature, hold them all together by that one common bond, regardless of mutual love or admiration! The child, who had so recently made its existence known to her and of whom, as yet, Lee was entirely unsuspecting. Garnet drew a mental curtain across the painful memories, the resentment and dislike, which she had never been able to overcome. She tried to shut out the recollections of happiness which she and Lee had found in their love. Perhaps, later, things would be different. But now, she must carry out her plans. She must leave Wheatlands. She fastened the cases and shoved them back under the bed. Over by the window, gazing out across the golden stubble of wheat toward the blue expanse of mountain peaks, she realized how very much she had grown to love this country of the plains. The ever-changing mood of clouds and shadows on Pike's Peak to the north, the brilliant sunshine gleaming all around her on the golden fields. ART of the sky was darkening. Great, ragged clouds rolled over the saw-edged peaks like tumbleweeds in a gale. By four o'clock, the wind was sharply cold. Within another hour the country was gripped in an icy blizzard, with the 590 wind shrieking around the comers of the house, whistling in the eaves like a lost banshee, and rattling window panes dangerously. Snow fell in hard, little ice pellets. It was all that Smith could do to make the distance up the hollow to do the chores. He coughed hoarsely. "It's a very bad night, sure, Mrs. Lee," he offered as he gave Garnet the warm milk to strain and cool. "Just give me a ring if you an' Mrs. Blendall need any help." "T will,' Garnet promised, glad that the phone was a link with people who knew and understood this beautiful, but sometimes terrifying county. "By the way, Smith, did you bed down old Chub and Buttercup and little Wobbly-legs? We must make sure, you know," she ended with a meaning little smile. Her unoriginal cow names were even new to him. "You mean the Shorthorns?" he asked. Garnet nodded. "T sure did!' Smith said, "just like Mr. Blendall told me to." "Thanks. Father is particular where his stock are concerned." They smiled together at old Grant's idiosyncrasy. "Take good care of that cold, Smith," Garnet called after him through the storm. The women ate their lonely supRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 per before the open fire. Garnet sat on the hassock at the older woman's feet and wished that Lee were home. She wanted his strong, hard arms around her shoulders; she needed his understanding companionship to quiet her fears, his lips on her hair, telling her he loved her. > "Like this new gingerbread recipe, Mother? I used a new brand of molasses. It's milder." Garnet was always trying new, tempting dishes to please the mother whose days seemed so monotonous. But beyond a few words or nods, Garnet never knew whether her mother-in-law approved of her cookery or not. Her sincerest overtures were almost always ignored. Once Garnet had walked two miles to pick strawberries from a neighbor's garden so that Mrs. Blendall might have a shortcake, and her only comment, after Garnet had gone to all the trouble, had been, "Plain food's best." The wind continued to howl its fury, and did not lessen. Garnet was afraid. The big walnut bed was cold without Lee, cold and empty. She reminded herself that she might just as well get used to the loneliness, used to the fact that only a smooth expanse of cold sheet would greet her arms each night after she severed the bond of her hasty marriage. (To be concluded) Shat He May Know LeRoy Burke Meagher Autumn, loose the amber leaves, Make bare the frosted limb; Let wind and waves convey this bit Of beauty out to him. There is no autumn where he lies Upon a cross-rowed hill, And transient leaves would let him know He shares my autumns still. Better Photography Willard Luce HOTOGRAPHY is without question the number-one hobby in America today, possibly in the world. Literally miles of film are used every year, pictures of people, pictures of trees and mountains and rivers and lakes, pictures of buildings and streets, pictures of everything. Magazines are filled with them, albums are filled with them, drawers and boxes are filled with them. And perhaps it should be so; for they are recorded fractions of time which will never return. The people, the scene, the earth will never be. Exactly the same again as it was during that one instant of exposure. The sad part is not that the film is used, but that too much is used, too much wasted. Not that fair pictures are not made, they are; but ten good pictures are far better than a hundred fair ones. Anyone can take fair photographs. Anyone can also take good pictures with just a little more time, a little more thought, and a little less film. If film cost ten times what it does, the average snapshooter would be much more critical about how he used it. Instead of snapping a hundred shots and hoping the law of average would give him a few worthwhile pictures, he would take only ten and get far more good pictures among those ten than among the hundred. And you don't need an expensive camera! For the average person, most things can be photographed as effectively with arbox camera as with a more expensive instrument, although the box camera has many limitations, as mentioned below. When used within these limitations, however, it is a very effective, picture-taking machine. Tt cannot, usually, be used for anything closer than six feet even with a portrait attachment. And then it is difficult to get the proper composition, for what you see in the view-finder is not what you get on the film, due to what is called parallax. But, anyway, there is little the average person would want to photograph closer than eight feet. The box camera isn't effective on cloudy days, because of exposure. The regular snap is too short and we, as humans, are too slow to open the shutter set on time and close it again without burning up the film. This really isn't as serious as it seems, however. Few cloudy day photographs are effective anyway, and, in America, there are far, far more sunny days than cloudy ones. I understand some of the new color films can be used in box cameras but, I am afraid, not very satisfactorily since the exposure of color is so critical. Before trying it, I would consult a good photo dealer for instructions. HEN the box camera doesn't give critical enough focus for big enlargements, but for the average person wishing snapshots for his photo album, that is hardly a limitation. Page 591 592 Willard Luce CLOUDS AND TEMPLE SPIRES Infra-red film and a red filter create dramatic cloud effects. Regular panchromatic film with a red filter will also give a very dark sky and white clouds, but the foliage remains dark. Panchromatic or orthochromatic film, with a yellow filter, will give you normal sky correction. There is, however, one quite serious limitation of the box camera— that of exposure. The exposure of the camera is so calculated as to get a picture in sunlight, but there is a great deal of difference in sunlight. At high altitudes, for instance, the sunlight is much more intense than on the coast. For that reason a film can be exposed in high altitudes a much shorter time. As a result, a great many negatives taken with a box camera are badly overexposed, which burns out most of the details and the beautiful gray tones. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 This, however, can easily be corrected by using a yellow filter which will also darken the sky and bring out any clouds which might be there. If you haven't a yellow filter and one seems too expensive, a piece of yellow cellophane held over the lens will do just as well. Very dramatic cloud effects can be created by the use of infra-red film and a red filter. This gives a black sky, black shadows, and white foliage. A fairly long exposure, plus the need of a slightly longer & Willard Luce NIGHT OVER ZION This night photograph was taken with a box camera. The slight distortion here was caused by pointing the camera upwards while making the exposure. Taking the picture from across Main Street and enlarging only a section of the negative helped make the distortion less noticeable. The camera was placed on a mailbox while making the exposure. S F Willard Luce A FRAME OF FOLIAGE Note the effect of the foliage in the picture. Proper framing greatly enhances any photograph. 594 distance between the lens and the film, makes infra-red photography unsuited for the box camera. I have seen, as I'm sure you have seen, hundreds of pictures having a person standing facing the camera with a building or a mountain in the background. Here you have not one picture, but two, the picture of the person and the picture of the building or the mountain. The center of interest is divided, and both fight for attention. With an expensive camera the background can easily be thrown out of focus. But if the building in the background is going to be fuzzy and distorted, why have it there at all? Why not, instead, photograph the person against a smooth wall, or, better still, against the sky. Either makes an excellent background for a personality shot. It isn't fair to the person or to the scene to attempt to give them both equal importance within the framework of the same photograph. Excellent pictures can be made including both, if the person is looking at the scene and not at the camera. This actually directs the viewers eyes to the building or the scene, giving it more importance. Photographing a building when close to it creates what is called distortion. This is caused by the fact that the bottom of the building is much closer to the camera than the top, which causes the building to appear to be leaning or falling backwards. This is often used by top-ranking photographers to create an ef-— fect. In a salon print, properly mounted, it is often very effective. In most album-sized prints it is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 usually only distracting and disturbing. It is well to understand the trick and to use it with caution. This same principle of distortion can be used effectively in framing a picture. Small objects close to the camera can be made to appear as large as a building farther away. This may give a feeling of depth to a photograph, as well as creating a striking composition. An arch, a gateway, a window, or a tree can be made into a frame for the scene proper. But once again all this must be used with a certain caution. HEN, of course, there is night photography. Many buildings at night, especially the Latter-day. Saint temples, are beautifully lighted, but few people have night photographs which they have taken themselves. And yet it is very easy— even with a box camera. Whatever camera you use must be set on time, placed on something solid, and the shutter left open from five to fifteen minutes. That's about. All there is to it. A tripod, of course, is best to hold the camera as it can be moved in order to get the best composition. It is also solid and will hold the camera during the exposure. If you haven't a tripod, the top of a car, a mailbox, a window sill, or even the sidewalk will do. If someone walks between the camera and the building during the exposure, it will make no difference.: If a car drives between, it won't matter, so long as no direct light shines into the camera lens. These are only a few suggestions. There are hundreds more, thousands. Study the photographs in the maga- BETTER PHOTOGRAPHY zines you buy. 'They are by top ranking photographers who have spent time and money learning their trade. Their ideas can be adapted and used. Willard Luce THE GREAT TABERNACLE, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 595 Perhaps in time we can make photography not only America's number one hobby in quantity of production but also in quality of production. People should be a normal part of the scene. Whenever they look at the camera 'they attract too much interest from the scene to themselves. Just photographing some of the many people who visit Temple Square could be a fascinating hobby in and of itself. Reunion Sylvia Probst Young I turn the corner to a quiet street, There stands a little house that I call mine That white frame over by the willow tree; Its front porch holds a honeysuckle vine, The western window frames a twilight sky And larks are nesting in the willow tree— In that small world is all my happiness Within a family circle's intimacy. I hurry now, for coming down the street, I see them.... How familiar is the noise Of racing feet... And I am back again With three I love—three little boys. They almost smother me as each one tries To hug me first—and then we go Back to the house to tell of all we did, Although I left less than an hour ago. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1889 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS WOMAN The central flower divinely white Is Chastity! So pure it greets the sight, And drooping modesty, so true and rare, Her charms enhance, and make all traits seem fair. —E. RS, HOMESPUN TALKS TO MOTIIERS: Mothers, you and I cannot afford to slight or neglect this home-truth. Our daughters, giddy, happy, restless creatures that they are, will learn more lessons from the theatres they visit, the books they read, than from all the sermons or rebukes they may hear. Much that has been taught them in their childhood of truth, morality, cleanliness and even faith will remain indelibly fixed in their minds. But you have forgotten or overlooked the fact that with most women all these things are swept aside if her love happens to be placed on an unworthy object. Love is a most powerful agent in any woman's mind. And when it comes to the mind of a young, thoughtless, inexperienced girl, it is an agent that enters in as it were and possesses the whole being.—1 lomespun A FALSE STEP: Perhaps you have made a false step, and have lost hope in consequence. You probably exaggerate the evil done. Don't fancy that everybody is talking about it. People have plenty to think about, and they will not be interested in you very long. "Try again." Choose a new path, and cut down the briers, and subdue the obstacles, which, after all, are only there to test your strength. You will be happy in doing this, and you will be respected by all the other plodders in their respective pathways.—Mattie W. BEAVER STAKE: The stake conference of the Relief Socicty convened August 12th, in the L. DS. Meeting house, Beaver City. President Lucinda Howe presiding. After the opening exercises the presidents of the various branches gave their reports, showing that a portion of the sisters are alive to their duties and helping to care for the poor and sick. Sisters Zina Young and Minerva Snow being present addressed the conference both forcnoon and afternoon. Sister Zina Young was happy to meet with the sisters. "It is a duty to meet together and if we wish to live happy we must make our duties our pleasures. We are the daughters of God and we must acknowledge His goodness and mercy. We must be filled with integrity toward Him for it is worth more than the riches of this world as it will lead us back into the presence of God. We must be united and make our homes happy and pleasant." —Louisa Jones, Stake Sec. THANK GOD Thank God for dreams, in which our loved ones come From fairer homes, and make less burthensome Life's weary longings, and its weight of care, Which we must carry till we join them there. —Lula Page 596 L\ K LS 5 ~ i Ey N connection with the M. I. A. June conference, the six famous King Sisters, originally of Utah, sang in the Tabernacle in the sacred Book of Mormon cantata composed by their father, William King Driggs. Particularly outstanding was their beautiful sextet number, "Daughters of Ishmael." 'These handsome and talented young women are: Maxine (Mrs. La Varn Thomas), Louise (Mrs. Alvino Rey), Alyce (Mrs. Sidney d'Azavedo), Donna (Mrs. James Conkling), Yvonne (Mrs. Robert "Buddy" Cole), and Marilyn, seventeen and unmarried. They came, at their own expense, from California and New York to participate in this excellent musical event. Of the married daughters, Donna has three children and the others two each. All are active workers in Church organizations. MB:-. ANNIE KING, of Brantford, Ontario, Canada, has passed away at the age of one hundred and ten years. After turning one hundred, she still did her own housework, cooking, laundering, and shopping. ITTLE GOLD PIECES by Juliaetta Bateman Jensen (Mrs. Christen Jensen) is a story of the life and courage of the author's Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon mother, in a setting of pioneer times. Details have authenticity, scenes are vividly recreated, and the story is told simply and honestly. All well written, the book contains frequent passages of real beauty. CARRIE LARSON' ERIKSEN died in Salt Lake City in July at the age of ninety-eight. She came to the United States from Fyn, Denmark, at the age of twenty, and married Joseph S. Eriksen in Chicago. The Chicago Branch of the Church was organized in her home there. ARTHA C. EARNEST, a woman of great courage and renown, widow of "Boney" Earnest, famed Indian Scout, died in July at the age of ninety-seven in Alcove, Wyoming. She was a_ personal friend of Wild Bill Hickock, Buffalo Bill, Calamity Jane, and other frontier characters. She fought Indians, herded cattle, and hunted with her late husband. ONE of the ninety-eight United States memorial stamp issues honoring private individuals was printed to pay homage to Susan B. Anthony, the noted worker for woman suffrage. Page 597 o> EDITORIAL 2 SEPTEMBER 1949 Women Who Sew Together She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet. (Proverbs 31:21-22). [' '5 a friendly and pleasant custom for women to sew together. Ever since the long ago when the soft wool and the strong flax and the yielding cotton were first spun and woven into cloth, the busy hands of women have fashioned beauty and utility. While their fingers have deftly threaded intricate designs OF stitched seams for plain clothing, their thoughts, pethaps, have wandered from the work in hand, and as the poet says, "they were stitching life instead." The modern woman, supplied with a sewing machine and perhaps a hemstitcher or puttonhole maker, a hemmer, or a gatherer, still goes back across the path of centu ries to fashion exquisite designs with her own hands, to take the purple and the fine linen and weave them 'nto her dream of beauty. Thus the woman of today is one with her sister of ancient Israel whose hands held the spindle and the distaff. 'The woman of today ls one with many housewives, who took the thread and the looms and the fabrics of their native lands and looked well to their households by providing clothing and linens and ornamental tapestries. From these women we have inherited more than physical appearance, our mental abilities, or our talents and gifts, Page 596 She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple we have inherited their love of beauty and industry. They were our spiritual ancestors as well. The women of the New World, the ambitious, untiring, New Englanders who made their varied rugs and their patched quilts have handed down to us a tapestry of handwork and sewing that makes a delightful and unified composition of various strands of usefulness and decorative design. In the mountain valleys of the pioneer West, knitting and crocheting, netting and embroidery, spinning and weaving, cutting and mending hours and the evenings into twilight and continued by candlelight and by embers of the fireplace. And, as women sewed and seamed together, love and understanding and d companionship. Two friends traveling by wagon from St. George to Salt Lake City, knitted all the way and made the winter stockings for their families. And they made a closer knitting of lifelong friendship. Many of us recall rag bees and quilting bees and the women who comforted, consoled, and encouraged each other between quick flashings of needles and the looping of the thread. Many of us remember long EDITORIAL afternoons and the time between sunset and twilight when we sat with our mothers on shaded porches and embroidered pillowslips and table linen and settled, in our way, the problems of womanhood, and charted ahead the long days that would lead far away from home and its protecting walls. Relief Society women, since the 599 meetings more than a century ago in Nauvoo, have been experts with needles and crochet hooks, and quilting frames and looms for rugs. They have sewed together and have woven friendships and attitudes of charity and compassion, giving generously from full hearts and busy hands to the loom of years. V. P. C. Votes to tue FIEp Annual General Reliof Society Conference THE annual general Relief Society conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 28 and 29, 1949. On Thursday afternoon in the Tabernacle a meeting will be held to which the general membership of Relief Society and the public are invited. The attendance at the meetings Wednesday and Thursday mornings is limited to stake and mission officers. Buying Sexthooks for Relief Society oLessons FeROM inquiries which come to the general board it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The educational counselor in both the stake and the ward should present to the president of the respective organizations a list of the textbooks which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these books with funds from the Relief Society general fund. The educational counselor should see that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the educational counselor is responsible for collecting the books and placing them in the Relief Society library. Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it is recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase the textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3. Because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook. Educational counselors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alert to opportunities of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. The Making and Use of Decorative Candles Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board [This is the sixth in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects. In the coming months Sister Judd will present other suggestions suitable to particular seasons.—Ed.] Nite to June, September is the most popular month of the year for weddings. And weddings and candles just naturally go together. 'Though science has been able to give us far superior lighting from the standpoint of efficiency and brilliance, it has never been able to duplicate the soft glow of candlelight. For this reason, dinner tables, as well as background effeets for weddings (to mention only a few of many uses) turn to candles for just the nght touch. This month I would like to tell you of some interesting and beautiful decorations that can be made from new or partly burned candles. So, after the wedding dinner, don't throw the used candles away, but store them, to be brought out later, particularly at Christmas time. For individual candle favors that may serve, if desired, to support place cards, melt candles in a saucepan. Pour the melted wax into very small molds to the depth of about half an inch from the top. When the wax is cold and has hardened, place the mold in warm water until the candle can be released. In the meantime, slice a ready-made candle into one and a half-inch pieces and push one of them into the center of each mold, thus furnishing a wick. You may like to use contrasting Page 600 colors for the outside and the center. For the center of your table make the same sort of candles, half an inch only in depth. As you remove them from the mold, shape the edges to make them resemble an open flower like a wild rose. For the centerpiece use a low container with small pin frogs holding lilyshaped leaves. Float your wax flowers among the leaves. Just as your guests are to be seated, light the tapers at the individual places as well as those in the centerpiece. They will "oh" and "ah" at the lovely and unusual effect you have achieved. To make the lovely Christmas candles such as those illustrated, take tall cans in the forty-six ounce size, such as those used for grapefruit or tomato juice. Be sure to choose cans with no ndges. After cutting out the top of the can all the way around, make a circle of cardboard the size of the top. In the center of this cardboard make a small hole into which insert a ready-made candle. It is placed upside down and projects above the cardboard about six inches. This ready-made candle supplies the wick for the large candle and furnishes the base around which the conical top of the finished candle can be molded. When ready to pour your wax DECORATIVE CANDLES into the can, melt it in a saucepan, being careful to let it get warm but never hot, for hot wax discolors. The pouring process is done in three stages. First, fill the can to the top under the cardboard; allow it to harden thoroughly, when you will notice that there is a vacuum around the inserted candle. Your second step is to fill in this space with more warm wax. Remove the cardboard and, when the wax has hardened once more, take a spatula and build the candle to a conical shape by adding small amounts of soft wax and molding it with your fingers. (Note the candle at the extreme right in the illustration and you will see the smaller candle protruding from the top of the nearly finished one. ) Allow the wax to harden for the third time, then warm the can in a pan of water until the candle can be taken out. The sides will be soft, allowing you to score them with a fork for a pretty effect. Now comes the most fascinating part of all, when your own artistic ability is given free play and you decorate the candle according to the use you want to make of it. Notice the illustration and the Christmas bells, colorful balls, and ribbon that are about to be used. One woman takes sprigs of live 601 holly and attaches them to the candle with bits of wax, tying a final bunch at the top with a red bow. Artificial flowers, such a poinsettias, are effective and the silver leaves one finds at Christmas are always good. But keep the candles simple. Besides being so lovely, these candles may be used season after season. As they burn down, build them up again by adding more wax. Sometimes you may like to drip one color over another for an unusual effect. I -- Invocation Jessie M. Robinson I would not be curtained from beauty— Let loveliness linger with me: The mystical blue of the evening, The hyacinth gleam of the sea, The filtering gold of the sunlight That shines through the green of a tree, The lavender isles of the moming— Let loveliness linger with me. und a new hobby, with a Pioneer flavor. She makes attractive and useful Tugs, using a wagon wheel for her loom. Smaller Wheels, of various The wheel loom is Placed upon three chairs and is marked with red fingernail Polish into eight €qual sections, WAGON-WHEEL RUGS spoke, which will have six. This is necessary to make the Weaving come out even and will not show up in the finished Tug. Work, housekeeping, handwork, and demonstrating the making of her unique wagonSuggestions for a Work Meeting Luncheon Christine Fa ton CREAM OF POTATO SOUP (Serves 40 people) 6 or 7 Ibs. Of potatoes salt to taste 4 qts. Of milk 1 tbsp. Celery salt 3 Onions sliced. 4% tsp. Pepper 1 cup flour a little cayenne 1 Cup margarine, bacon fat, chopped parsley or chicken fat Cook potatoes with onions until very soft. Scald milk. Drain potatoes and add potato water to milk. Rub potatoes through a sieve and Put with other mixture. Melt the fat and add flour, stirring all the time. Pour some of the hot potato mixture into thickening, then return to kettle and cook 5 minutes, Add chopped parsley and SANDWICHES 3 Or 4 loaves of bread 3 large bunches of carrots 1 pint jar mayonnaise chives Grate or shred Carrots. Mix with mayonnaise and add a little chives. Spread mixture on the bread. OATMEAL COOKIES 1 cup shortening % cup sweet milk 1 cup sugar 1 tsp. Baking powder 2 eggs beaten % tsp. Soda 2 cups flour 4 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Cinnamon —_ 1 cup chopped raisins 2 cups oatmeal Cream shortening and sugar, then add the beaten eggs. Sift together flour, cinnamon, baking Powder, soda, and salt, then add the oatmeal and combine with the rst mixture, Add the raisins and milk (just enough to make a stiff dough). Drop on baking sheet about} inch apart. Bake in hot oven 375°F. From 12-15 minutes, Wastebaskets Where You Want Them Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustration by Elizabeth Williamson ts boxes—the large size—can be transformed into convenient little wastepaper baskets by means of a bit of colorful paper, paste,. And scissors. The big wallpaper sample books which paint stores discard every so often, supply a_neverending choice of handsome papers. Some of the pretty new shelf linings, even a bright piece of calico, will make a fanciful cover for a little scrap receptacle in kitchen, bathroom, or bedroom. Tuck one in the closet to catch soiled hose and handkerchiefs that get lost in the family hamper. Don't forget the children's room—in just the spot where the most scraps fall. Maps make interesting wastebasket covers beside the desk in the den, and many magazine pictures are worth preserving for awhile, pasted on those useful oatmeal cartons. —_ H. Tl, | H, un ge v Grace Sayre Once I knew fleet, laughing waters And the talking wind in the tall pine tree; I reveled in pungent wild sage blowing Over the hills that stretch to the sea. Now I know hunger for the stream's going And sorrow is in me—my feet are bound, My heart's song buried, away from my mountains. Oh, let me again hear the plaintive sound Of a night bird singing a twilight song To his lone mate nesting near the ground. Oh, let me hear again the stream's gay laughter And follow its song in my dream—thereafter. Page 604 Martha, Papoose of the Great Spirit A TRUuE Story James C. Young T was the summer of 1861, and | to Martha Granger Young, wife of William Goodall Young of Grantsville, it seemed unbearably hot in the dirt-floored cabin, but she had been gone so long tending the wounded Indian and chattering with old Sister Davis she couldn't stop to step outside for a breath of air. William would be coming to dinner any minute. Perspiration rolled off her temples as she slowed her bread kneading and reached over to stir the wild mustard greens on the stove. 'Then she caught the perspiration with a corner of her apron and quickly resumed kneading. A few more punches and the dough was gathered in a smooth, flattened roll in the bottom of the pan. She laid a clean white cloth over it and set it on a chair close to the stove. It must rise again as soon as possible and be ready so that she could pinch and cut off some to fry for William's dinner. She lifted the teakettle to check whether or not it was full. It was nearly empty, and she filled it with the last water in the bucket and stepped out through the door under the willow-covered shade that William had built for her. She was the only woman in Grantsville whose husband had been thoughtful enough to erect such a shade. A great surge of gratitude rushed over her as she plunged the bucket into the lizard-mounted barrel* and stepped back over the threshold. William was good to her. Only last week he had brought her two yards of curtain material from the city to hang over the new window he had cut in the west wall. She put the bucket on the wood box, which also served as washstand, and with a careful, almost reverent hand, adjusted the curtain so that the two sides were more neatly the same in shape. Going back to the door, she looked out and calculated the time from the position of the shadow cast by one of the posts supporting the shade roof. She judged the time to be nearly one o'clock. William, punctual whenever possible, was late today. A shadow of fear flitted into her bosom, but she quickly expelled it. Surely the Indians would not have come raiding again so soon after having been so severely beaten only a little over three weeks ago. No, William was probably having trouble with the new ditch the men had made that spring. The ditchbank had not had time to settle and sod down yet, and one clay point had given trouble all spring. Or Note: A lizard was two logs hewed flat on the bottom and laid on the ground as skids or runners, with short pieces of planking nailed across them to form a platform on which a sixty gallon wooden barrel was mounted. To this a horse was hitched and it was pulled to a ditch or stream and filled with water and then pulled back to the house. It was in many cases the pioneer water system. Page 605 606 pethaps someone had come to see the bishop about some matter that needed William's immediate attention. | Maybe she would have time to start sprinkling the floor. If she could get the bed end of the room done before William came _ that would be that much of her afternoon work finished. She lifted one end of the bed and set it over a little and then the other the same until she had uncovered the full width of the bed. She poured some water into the washdish and, going to the corner, she stooped down and splashed the water with her hand out of the dish onto the floor. When she had all the area the bed usually covered well wet down, she checked the condition of the greens on the back of the stove and cast an appraising eye at her dough. In a few minutes it would be ready for the dripper. At one end of the stove a board about twenty inches long and six inches wide leaned against the wall. With this she patted and pounded the dampened piece of floor until the surface looked as smooth and hard as stone. She carefully replaced the bed and smoothed and pounded the wet clay where the bed legs had disturbed it. She next cleared the remainder of that end of the room of its chair and a cupboard made from a large wooden dry goods box and sprinkled and pounded the dirt there.: TILL William did not come. A _ little nagging worry lay on her mind; but it was time to put the bread in the dripper. She cleared RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 the table top, sprinkled it sparingly with flour, cut off a piece of dough from that in the pan, placed it upon the table, and expertly rolled and kneaded it into a loaf. Then she realized she had not warmed nor greased the dripper. She was hungry, but she would not stop to fry a cake now. She preferred to eat with William. She ladled a little soft deer fat from a bottle into the dripper and set the dripper on the stove. Working close by the stove, she began now to perspire freely again. A little drop escaped her frantically catching hand to land in the hot grease and cause an instant spattering which caught her before she could remove her hand. Several spots began to pain severely. While the bread baked Martha worried, and dampened and pounded the rest of the floor, with water dripping off her nose continually. It seemed to her the bread should almost bake without being in the oven, but there was a dampness in the air also. She hated to cut the fresh bread but she did cut off two large slices which she spread with deer fat and with black molasses and wrapped in a cloth. The sky seemed to be low and very black but there was no letup to the heat. Donning her denim bonnet, she carried her cape, pieced from leg backs of William's wornout trousers, in one hand and the hot bread in the other, and hurried up the street to the tithing office, casting fearful glances at the black sky and worried glances down the road toward the field. Where is William? What can be keeping him? She wondered. | She still -had a half 'block to go MARTHA, PAPOOSE OF THE GREAT SPIRIT when a sudden jab of lightning zigzagged out of the black clouds just ahead of her and had hardly faded before the thunder hit her ears. Nor had the echoes quit ringing before the rain began to pelt down furiously. Martha lifted her skirts and ran. William knew she was terribly afraid of lightning, surely he would soon come now, if he was all right. The tithing office door swung open for her, and she ran into the room. It was dark there and when her eyes had adjusted themselves, she looked to see who had opened the door. William stood behind the door grinning at her. She was suddenly happy. William was all right.. "But why are you here? Why didn't you come to dinner?" she demanded. "I knew your patient would like some meat, so I brought him some prairie dogs I had drowned out. I also knew you wouldn't like to cook them. Your patient and I roasted them over a fire here. He is much better today and was glad to be able to get outside." "But he shouldn't walk yet." She turned to the brave, lying on sheepskins in one corner. "You shouldn't 607 walk. Too quick, make bad, heap hurt." "No hurt, me good, me walk, soon go." Martha handed him the bread. The Indian took it and ate it slowly, watching Martha much as a dog watches a boy tossing it pieces of meat. Then, seeing there was no more bread, he took a curiously designed feathered headdress off a wall peg and handed it to Martha. "Squaw bring, white squaw you keep, no Indian hurt squaw. You papoose Great Spirit. You keep, no Indian hurt." 3 _ The rain had stopped and it was cooler, and as Martha walked homeward beside William she was thankful he was safe and that her patient would soon be well enough to' go back to his people. "Martha," said William, "you have made a lifelong friend. Our bullets knocked him down; you have brought him back to health. That Indian alive will be the strongest message we could possibly send to his people. I don't think we will have any more Indian trouble. Did you understand what he meant by 'You Great Spirit Papoose?' He thinks you are a daughter of the Great Spirit, or God. And you truly are," Wind | Helen Gee Woods Wind— And the roaring of wind Over the green valley; The corn and the wheat ripple in wind. There is an ocean of wind-tossed spray Deep down from the mountaintop, Blowing 'silver over and over The bounteous green crop, Sighing through, waving through, And back again to the peak.: The day is over; _ I am the wind's child! —_ I fall asleep. Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 9 Synopsis: Joanna, widowed when her children were small, courageously works into a profitable business selling Bostonbaked beans and bakery goods. Her neighbor, Abigail Smith, as a partner, gives much hard work and good advice. Joanna, placing the welfare of her children first, buys a comfortable home from Kent Taylor, a writer, acting temporarily as a real estate agent. In order to attend a P. T. A., meeting, Joanna breaks a date with Kent before he leaves town. Joanna and Abigail open a number of new shops and Joanna finds her life enriched with many new friends and the abiding love of her children. Kent Taylor returns from an assignment in Europe and asks Joanna to marry him. BIGAIL brought in the Monday breakfast of scrambled eggs and Sunday's leftover rolls, toasted. She eyed Joanna's unfinished orange juice, and guiltily Joanna drank it. "You need it, all the gallivantin' you're doing. Wreck your health. That's what you'll do. Won't be able to travel come Wednesday, be planesick." Joanna flushed. "I'm engaged, Abigail. An engaged woman doesn't just sit in a corner and sew." Abigail nodded and passed salt and pepper to Joanna. "He certainly ain't one to do his courtin' in the front parlor. Doesn't he believe in homes?" Joanna ate her toast without butter. "He likes to go places, and he knows so many people. There's only another two days until our wedding, then we'll be out from underfoot and you can run the house the way you want it." Page 608 "And after your marriage will you be settlin' down?" "Why " Joanna paused and stared into space. "I'll settle down, until he gets back, and then I think Pll never know what each day holds, Abigail. 'They'll be like Christmas packages, a surprise in every one." She lifted her fork and put it down. "That's what it has been like for me, with Kent here. Christmas. Every day there have been silver and ribbons and holly and parties... By the way, we're having an extra, super party tomorrow night, Kent's sister is giving it. You're invited. I think I'll get a new dress for it, a white dinner dress and highheeled, gold slippers." Abigail snapped her fingers. "I knew there was something I had plumb forgot. Penny. She wants a new dress." Joanna lifted her brows. "TI just bought her a wardrobe." Abigail looked pained. "If you would stop going through us as though we were smoke, you would find out something about your family... Something like Penny is in love." "Penny? She's a baby!" Abigail said paticntly, "Sixteen is no baby. The child drifts around like a zombie. Tom. Tom. That's all I hear. She wants a black satin creation she saw downtown." "Black satin? At sixteen?" Abigail patted her beautiful hair. "She's afraid she's not grown up enough. Thinks she needs some fixin' up for this Tom person." 609 OANNA TOse and gathered UP her times l can' believe at Wwe are dishes, "Bles the child 80ing to be Matried, hat I'm not know What [']] do. [I] call the L0ing to Walk al] alone Into the School ang tell them | want her to years ahead. Oh, Kent I love you meet me downtown °n important so." uSINess, Wey] Zo shopping, Penny "Not as Much as love you. And J, for something Teally SWishy You'te al] I have. You're, | - My and 4ppropriate." World." Fe drew P before her It seemeq Joanna C everyhouse 'TI call for yoy tomorrow thing that happened hese days a "round eight. Y Sister has taken sumed Pecia] j Portance, Jy the town 'Patt for food nd flowers. Meant a new fale to tel] & for |. It's 80ing to be nice," his deep nterest and his laughter. "T can hardly wait." She lifted her She told about th SROpping face for his kiss. "Tomorrow hight, €xPeditio ent." "You should have been here darling was funny, Pe € bathroom door, "Penny, do hur f glamoroys dress, and Myself, bein vi ly. I'm SUPPosed to € Teady by eight." > Very Young -Point-of Penny's hig View and Patient ang tactful] tryin t her j h, clear Voice, "But Other, J have to be Teady by eight, to buying Something too, and | can't get m hair night," young and becomin "Fix it in your room." Who won He reacheg for her €€p sich of resignation, " h, hand,. All right, Mother." bathroom Joanna ¢ uckled ruefully, "A door Opened and Penny came out. Would say. Sh did get a simp anna caught her breath. The li Te. _Dlack vely feen with White Stick had done Something for p mny, collar an ffs and her first liptaken her Out of childhood, into stick, the myster land Where young Kent sated with laughter C girls live. The bright color brou Sanna's d May, " t she's wa Out the beauty Of the Clear, childish und Ost girls in the matter skin, the brown fyes, the dar cloud lipstick, of her hair swinging sukily on her "This is the first tiny she's want shoulders, C 8'own-up, Oh, Kent, It's anna felt 4 sudden shynesg beard to let them go," ore this ] ely stranger, She Wished C furned out avoid a truck, cetingly, that she could run back "That's What I'm ere for. En the past ang find again the lit your children have Paid you by tle gir] Penny. § lly, with her curly 501g away I'll stil be around, Onde hair ang her big blue eyes, We two. Ni lonely not lonely, Would he Pretty, byt She would ever." "ever own he Ister's Cet, dark She Caught her breath and turn loveliness Penn tohim, " me look q you. § SELECTED DATA annual report—1948 | bl annual report mirrors the accomplishments of Relief Society in advancing its program of education and welfare in the stakes and missions during 1948, its 106th year. It is a record of achievement reflecting the teamwork of women from all walks of life and in all parts of the world, banded together in one great cause. The activities of 172 stakes (all the organized stakes of the Church as of December 31) and 37 missions are reflected in the report. The reports were especially well prepared; 25 stake reports and four mission reports were perfect, while 125 stake and 22 mission reports required only a few minor corrections, and the narrative sections were both interesting and informative. For the first time since the war, reports were received from all foreign missions that had been deeply affected by war, and we are pleased to note the strengthening and expansion of these sister societies. An increase of 3,843 members in 1948 brought the total membership to 115,686, exceeding by 671 the membership of 1941, previous high mark, attained through an intensive membership campaign in anticipation of the 1942 Relief Society centennial. Some members did not continue their activity after the centennial year and war conditions were responsible for a further decline until the end of 1945. The recovery shown in the 1948 report, therefore, represents a steady and wholesome growth since the close of World War II. A Church-wide average of 37,644 members (32.53%) attended the regular weekly meetings and benefited from the educational program. 'Theology and testimony meetings continued to attract the largest attendance, with literature holding second place, social science third, and work meeting fourth, although the most notable increases occurred in work meeting with an increase of 2,295 (6.76%) over 1947, and social science with an increase of 1,946 (5.66%). The most outstanding achievement of 1948 was the gathering of the fund for the erection of a Relief Society Building in Salt Lake City. Women from all over the world, many of whom will never see the building, gave generously of their time, talent, and funds to reach the goal of $500,000, which was oversubscribed. Compassionate service continues to increase, indicating that the society is ever widening its friendly and sympathetic attention to the alleviation of human suffering. The extent of these services is revealed by the following figures: 1,592,434 monthly visits made by 37,528 visiting teachers in 21,752 visiting teacher districts, in which inspirational and comforting messages were delivered; 5,910 initial family visits and 9,349 follow-up visits made by ward presidents to needy families; 163,408 visits to the sick and homebound and 19,636 days care of the sick. Beyond the facts and figures cited here is something bigger—a testament of faith that the world sorely needs—a great, practical demonstration of brotherly love. The general board is deeply grateful to all who have contributed to the advancement of Relief Society during the past year, to officers and members alike, for their tireless and devoted service to the betterment and enrichment of human life, General Secretary-Treasurer Illustrated by Dorothy Platt Handley. Page €10 Tw wl tw we ew ee ee ee ee ee ee we baie er ner eR Oe TU einieieielsic)> obiciialteebeialsie "ie " esis) (ehe 1 Melicl" ¢ 3 OR 9 <9 9 59 5 SA SR Sn ee CO LO ee Cr en It eet Yana) Se ace PING Pa ee Pie at Or ner ne Sa ae ne ST Pana ie ner nee Te ee Se CC IE SL SC SL IC SN IPG SL SL nS Oa Sh gen a ker dr er er he ee a OB SB OBO 6 5 Or 5G FG 8695 6 BPG PAE SS 5 CSUR AA PR oS oe = 7 ROO I 2 > ad | > Sha ae aia ier ie nee er ee a a et a ee ae hee ee ce eee eet ee ee ee we ew et ae eo ea ee a ae a ae ee eR Rh A N N_ U ees wn tie 7 ote Cnet wee C = saGEec C 0 0. C omemeamme 626 ee enna es 6 6 eeeeee Te C 3,843 NEW MEMBERS 6 ee — a = —_— — —- 200,029 = — A lpoenonane eee e ae wenes i ihrer ery Cotte eres were ee ew (UIA f WTA 31,561 HUI 1947 TOTAL L. D. S. FAMILIES Cerner ee ee i — Wil y = oo 1 proportionate to the increase membership in the missions is 51.30% of our goal, which is every L. D. S. Family. PO ne a en nS SS SS. While this is a noteworthy increase over 1947, it is not in the number of L. D. S. Families, which was 25,470. Increased 8.76%, in the stakes 2.37%. The total membership represents one member in cece c em Ff pret et ete se eeee ee ee nee eee eeee ee ences ale PILE NLL) i ANOS NARA ccs Nm Ne L. OUUUSCT Gas 8,6 36 UTI. * C > ~ Oo Po 0o 58,969 1947 1948 TOTAL R. S. R. S. MEMBERS MEMBERSHIP IN LEADERSHIP 22 IN STAKES 1,939 365 IN MISSIONS 9,827 4,764 8,490 37,528 GENERAL OFFICERS STAKE OFFICERS MISSION OFFICERS LOCAL EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OTHER OFFICERS CLASS LEADERS VISITING TEACHERS Page 6]1 Crographie Dithibulion ¢ organizations s members DECEMBER 31, 1948 194 D/stRICT OF COLUMBIA NUMBER OF ORGANIZATIONS IN STAKES C) NUMBER OF ORGANIZATIONS IN MISSIONS NUMERALS OUTSIDE OF SQUARES AND CIRCLES INDICATE RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP. ANNUAL REP ORG 2,648 ORGANIZA TIONS We stag re UNITED STATES 2054 ORGANI = 338 NORWay ZATIONS § 104,032 MEMBERS (is) 319 SWEDEN OTHER COUNTRIES 594 -ORGA 11,654 MEMBE a 597 GREAT BRITAIN (12) 280 DENMARK (19) 265 NETHERLANDS (1947) -_ (13,) 140 FRANCE eee Ae.. Ve ae. > ane * epee. OG oy << 6) 103 FINLAND 1,906 EAST GERMAN ) "542 WEST GERMAN vee 179 SWITZERLAND 27 CZECHOSLOVAKIA AUSTRIa CENTRAL 144 MEX} nico (D). PACIFIC 119 (8:3. C15) 247 TAHITI (1942) XN Pr oeg en 250 AUSTRALIA ", es 65 SOUTH AFRicg BRAZIL 76" WT whZes 1947 1948 AVERAGE, 1947 1948 MEETINGS ATTENDANCE MEETINGS IN STAKES OF V. T. IN MISSIONS Note the V. T. Meetings increased 1,136, but the average attendance decreased 2.18%, Selecetenecere ee 5 eee > soa SOUSA haere eee SReeoN ee ee ee s SESS EES SES ES S 82,954 REGULAR MEETINGS __ MEETINGS IN STAKES MEETINGS IN MISSIONS 47,409 34,545 RR Es ON a PSSA eta NS 43 TFG IN STAKES 11,00S THEOLOGY 10,533 9.757 7.510. 67 SE6 LITERATURE SOC. SCIENCE ie) LITERATURE TOTAL AVERAGE ATTENDANCE 37,644 2 IN MISSIONS 19,550 ALL OTHER MEETINGS 12,936 6,614 IN STAKES IN MISSIONS Page 614 70) OC ON0 | 00s UNO RS DRSINO NO On OOO ROO SOND RORDRO RO MOEDIRORD SONOS 55 OBO OO RR 0505 999598 3 5 85 FBP 85 8585 F595 258595858 a2 858 o9aFaQogogonogo. So ee oe eae edo aitinnd = De De 5 i appeal = ns = Selena os otededaone to eretceeieele litle ois otelet oie lesel etalon eee et ee eee ee eet een ene BOO ONCE OH OR DRD SD MUMTN END NE Hint IN UN LN InN i nM Rr nario Ono SOG Doe Deg eGe S020 05050 OHO GORD 89GB SSG 50 88059 5 NO 9 Og OD Fa Fat IBDN IANO NOG! SOS os Sea arse leis lel ele bel etal ededel sc 2h gc re oe gete See fe Sete ene pSiols oo belongs = = = eabecpetatae deh toda fe lela Peek oleate Skee lela Rn ye =e feat ee Pee Deere te dete le le lets le ete ere etree eee ee eee nae eNOS Tene ls Tale TOT IO) ol ohana rete fatale = el aTot ste ate) To] ata SRS Ie} oy Pet eRe Sate SSNS otc cll ete el ete ete ee l= tet teeta ee oak eR i ee Cela C eC COCO O00 060 Oa 5D 8868080 0088060 O88 O00 5950208950200 95 0) 95959505059 959.8595 %a TOTAL IN STAKES IN MISSIONS AVERAGE ATTENDANCE 1947 1948 1947-1948 Pe 41.63% 42.90% —t > —_— 1 q 36.55% 42.65% 29.54% 28.97% 1947 ck 1948 Total average attendance showaN TOTAL AVERAGE ed a decrease of.28%. In the stakes, it decreased at all except be. Ge wee ATTENDANCE the Wo eee 4 which inaS creased.10% The missions oO: showed gratifying increases all regular meetings. ND. 616 coat te tet ee Cr i i i a a i i Sr i i Si Si ir i Si i i Oe OG SR er SG Se er ac Ce ee i eS i i ii i ie She Te Oe Se ee Se ee ee ee he a Phd he her eee ee eee hee er ie he ee lr Se eh oc ate Ce I RG I GS eS SR DG a ete t ete eter ere. OO of e*e%e er he ie ie he ell hel he te hel he a lh ee Ce a i i i i i a i Or i TT i i i i a SD Se SS RO overe e CY VISITS TO SICK AND HOMEBOUND CS erararene 8:". POO "(8 -:. A Y's 1948 DAYS CARE OF THE SICK (@4ovRS=s pay) 19,636 = a—————— ——— ———— 1947 1948 An increase over 1947 of 24,513 visits to the sick and homebound and 4,163 days care of the sick, is praiseworthy evidence that Relief Society members are heeding the admomtion to "cherish one another." NUMBER OF FUNERALS AT WHICH R. S. ASSISTED. 5,513 355 DRESSING ONLY FOR BURIAL | oo, COMPLETE PREPARATION FOR BURIAL 517 Page 617 ee ry a a ry Se A SiS SS DS SD SSS SS SS SS OO Sb IS Shh he Ihe Dh he be Sa Ce A ne SR DO SR ES DSS SD Ud a a ae ne RR DS OG DDD On RR ae Ee SR A OR A a SO OD ere eet ate ee eae we ee ee ee ee ee ee www ww ee ee ee ew ew ew ew we ee ee ew ew ew et eee et we we ww ee ee we wo we ew eo a a we te eee ee eo tee ew 289,189 ois ==J ARTICLES ARTICLES COMPLETED, 54 asso. (=| COMPLETED | i ———s as == IN The welfare sewing budget for 1948 was r: | 952.222 60% less than for 1947 and accounts for the ": | HOURS main decrease in the total articles completed.;: The increase in hours is attributed to the in- ' u crease in the types of articles requiring more time to complete. At =| ark | 190.184 ==J ARTICLES = COMPLETE IN 1,154,218 HOURS QUILTS OTHER 'CHILDREN'S WOMEN'S MEN'S MISCEL. = BEDDING CLOTHING CLOTHING CLOTHING ARTICLES —— 1947 1948 TOTAL ARTICLES + ey oO oO o < ha <t '47 "48 47 48 ("a7 48 FOR FOR FOR CHURCH RELIEF ALL WELFARE SOCIETY OTHER Y OF R. S. MEMBERS ARTICLES COMPLETED PARTICIPATING Page 618 549,412 HRS. NSS BY R. S. WOMEN RECEIVING AID BY ALL OTHER R. S. WOMEN a The decrease in hours of serye 304,625 HRS. Ice given to Church Welfare _ | and in articles completed is due aos "4 to reduced service requirements a: 69 83.28% and a lower sewing budget aso 1 3S signment. Re wn 180,041 sang] san (than 16.72% 1947 1948 1947 1948 ' eos bm pee Shere TOTAL ARTICLES COMPLETED ES. FOR FOR CHURCH WELFARE AT RS. CHURCH WELFARE MEETINGS (NOT AT R. S. MEETINGS} / —— FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE ——) THIS SERVICE, GIVEN UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE BISHOPS, INCLUDES FAMILY INITIAL AND FOLLOW UP VISITS BY WARD R. S. PRESIDENTS AND lS IN ADDITION TO OTHER TYPES OF SERVICE RENDERED BY R. S. TO THE WELFARE PROGRAM. 9,349 FOLLOW NUMBER. OF UP WOMEN VISITS SO VISITED a 5,910 INITIAL ) visits | 4: _ == WORKED ON CHURCH SEWED SEWED FOR VISITS TO = weLrare PROJECTS. AT WORK THEMSELVES FAMILIES EXCLUSIVE OF WORK MEETINGS AND FAMILY MEETING SEWING Cie et er oe oe oe er ee et ee et ee ee ee he i eee eee ee eo C 0 0:0 0 626 6 ¢ 0107050 C 0 0. Cee lee sme Tae os ¢ [ein lclaeiee ee eo oe eee te oe a oe so. Oe mmm Olas: C an enme. C. OenmieralC (clit a teean ta) ae er fain a tate etic te es ete ore bo ome C dame. Omega, C. C. Sigs is cles ee eee CPSC PSC i ne ee 2 ek Laid aie aie Siar ie aia The See met yee eS enc Det pete at SY hana ee ee eee ee ee) Pe er her ee eee ee ee ete ata ta ee ee ee ee ew ee ee $598,363.43 CASH BALANCE Jan. 1, 1948 C Bees tn stig Sa or te ni Se $1,135,672.26 Sere CASH RECEIPTS * =e $422,912.22 WHEAT FUND $122,227.98 WAR BONDS $149,080.50 REAL ESTATE $359,474.61 FURNITURE $111,945.20 OTHER ASSETS TOTAL ASSETS $2,899,676.20 a ee hehe be Be he ee ee ee ee ee 0s le ltecitaaitiee ec ene 6 8 6 6 o niepaupre lg ae eee ee ee i d 'f. Cea! LIABILITIES $1,109,112.90 a ee ee. Phe eee hee ee ee ee ee ee Phe ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee *These figures include contributions of $494,739.33 to the Relief Society Building Fund, transferred to the general board, making a total of $549,784.33 held in trust by the general board as of December 31, 1948. $368.69 i et "6=6C ACCOUNTS a PAYABLE itt #4 $1108,744.21 CASH DISBURSEMENTS* etre stsstssetssee aa nn a en SSSA SRT BALANCE eit NET ASSETS \\ $1,790,563.30 j ".... Eet ee gts. Some... Pete ent tate gte... ° Co tog tent. Ere een? Ee ee ee a Pdr helt her ee ee ee i ae Te he ee 2 eer ee he ee i ee ee I a ete tet et et cto tele ee ae ea ee 6 8 ee ee OO Ole Oe tole oO Hee ew e888 ts eee ac ee kl er ier ner a ee hee hele TA TR See TG SRG i GG IR I eel Sent ee aa eK IL PE CPS LI 9 ete ete ere ete ete ete ae a ot a es se els oO ew we oe Oe we we ee lt fete ee ete et ee ete ee ete eo at ce es 0 a ee ee eee te ee et ee eee ek ele ee ANNUAL REPORT 621 Comparative Financial and Statistical Data 1947-1948 1948 1947 Changes 1947 to 1948 Number Number Number Per or Amount | or Amount | or Amount | Cent STAKES AND MISSIONS, TOTAL 212 207 +5] +2.41 Organizations Stakes 172 168 +4) +2.38 ORGANIMissions 40 39 +1] +2.56 i a Local 2.648 2,524 +124| +44.91 Wards in Stakes 1,473 1,420 53] +3.73 Branches in Missions 1,175 1,104 71] +6.43 Membership, Total 115.686 111,843 +3,.843/ +3.43 General Officers and Board Members 22 20 -+-2] -+-10.00 Stake Officers and Board Members 1,939 1,872 +67] +3.57 Mission Presidents and Other Officers 365 310 +55| +17.74 MEMBERS Ward and Branch Executive Officers 9,827 9,907 —80} —.80 Other Officers 4,764 4,208 +556] +-13.21 Class Leaders 8,490 7,774 +716] +9.21 Visiting Teachers 37,528 34,878 +2,650} +-7.59 All Other Members 52,751 52,874 —123} —.23 L. D. S L. D. S. Families, Total 225,499 200.029 +-25,470} 4-12.73 FAMILIES In Stakes 193,938 178,008 +15,930} +8.94 In Missions 31,561 22,021 +9,540] -+43.32 MEETINGS HELD, TOTAL 117,902 104,545 +13,357| -+-12.77 In Wards and Branches 114,159 100,750 -+-13,409 | +-13.30 Regular Ward Meetings for Members 82,954 74,108 +8,846) +11.93 March Sunday Night Meetings 5,613 4,231 +1,382) +32.66 Visiting Teacher Meetings 11,655 10,519 +-1,136 10.79 Ward Preparation Meetings 10,255 8,312 +1,943] +23.37 Ward Conferences 2,382 2,095 +-287 | +-13.69 Ward Conference Preliminary Meetings 1,300 1,485 —185 | —12.45 In Stakes and Missions 3,713 3.763 —50| —1.32 Stake and Mission Dist. Board Meetings 2,170 1,940 +230] +11.85 Stake and Ward Officers (Union) Migs. 1,543 oe +87) +5.97 - MEETINGS Meetings in Lieu of Union Meetings AND General Board Meetings Held 30 32 —2| —6.25 ATTENDANCE visits TO WARDS BY STAKE OFFICERS 13,750 12,999 +751| +5.77 AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR MEETINGS For Members 37,644 36.166 +1478] +-4.08 In Stakes 28,375 28,423 —48}; —.16 In Missions 9,269 7,743 +1,526} +-19.70 PER CENT OF MEMBERS REPRESENTED BY AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR MEETINGS 32.53 3263 +.20 In Stakes 29.73 30.49 —.76 In Missions 45.72 41.54 +4.18) VISITING TEACHING Number of Visiting Teacher Districts 21,752 - - 20,388 +1,364] 46.69,.. Family Visits, Total 1,592,434 1,458,000 134.434} +-9 22 ACTIVITIES Home 1,097,552 995,820 101,732] 410.21 Not Home 494 882 462,180 +32,702| -+-7.07 Per Cent Home 68.92 68.30 No. Communications in Lieu of Visits 23,949 20,850 +3,099| +-14.86 622 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA (Continued) 1948 1947 Changes 1947 to 1948 Number Number Number Per or Amount | or Amount | or Amount | Cent EDUCATIONAL SERVICE Average Attendance at Relief Society. Art oy) gael tel or ewing;; 298 y ACTIVITIES Literature 36,779 36,474 +305 sae (Continued) = Social Science 36,294 34,348 +1,946] +5.66 SEWING SERVICE AT MEETINGS Av. No. Of Women Sewing Monthly 32,271 95,559 —3,288| —9.24 Number of Hours Given in Sewing 1,154,218 952,222 +201,996| 421.21 Articles Completed 190,184 289.189 —99,005| —34.23 For Relief Society 94,940 99,143 —4,203} 4923 For Church Welfare 60,756 180,041 —119,285] 66.95 For All Others 34,488 10,005 +24,483) 4.94470 Kind of Articles Quilts 15,520 14,040 1,480 Other Bedding _ 5898 5432 ae or Children 8 Clothing 36,315 79,195 —42,880] 54 14 Women's Clothing 34,800 56,300 —21,500] _38 18 Men's Clothing 5,595 9,772 —4,177| _49 74 Other (Miscellaneous) 92,256 124,450 —32,194| _ 95 96 COMPASSIONATE SERVICES Visits to Sick and Homebound 16 1 Number of Days Care of Sick oa 6ae S473 are ats gra Bodies Prepared for Burial 872 615 +257 Ti Complete Preparation 517 109 -+-408 4374.31 Dressing Only. 355 506 —151] "99 94 No. Funerals at Which R. S. Assisted 5,513 4,754 +759 4-15.96 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICES (In Addition to 60,756 Articles Completed at Relief Society Work Meetings) Hours Church Welfare Projects 304,625 549,412 —244,787 By Women Receiving Aid 50,957 53,963 —3,006 "Se By All Other Relief Society Women 253,668 495 449 —241,781| —48.80 FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE Number of Initial Family Visits Under Direction of Bishop 5,910._ - of Subsequent or Follow-Up nan isits. _ " ' (Report inaugurated 1948 Number Visited Who Gave Service on a Clemch Wellaie Provmols 1,526 hence no comparative figures) Number of Women Visited Who Sewed at Work Meeting 1,440 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed for Themselves and Families 1,644 Cash Receipts $1,135,672.26| § 699,494.92 +-$436.177.34| -+-62.35.. FINANCES' Cash Disbursements $1,108,744.21| § 676,458.29 | +-$432,285.92| -+-63.90 Net Assets $1.790,563.30| $1.681,683.02] +-$108,880.28|, 4+-6.47 MAGAZINE Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions 77,740)/, 80,978 —3,2371/,,; —3.99 et ee es. Wo. Ge ooo Ammer med - am 2,648 115,686 114,159 37,644 1,549,434 37,528 163,408 19,636 190,184 60,756 15,259 ORGANIZATIONS MEMBERS MEETINGS HELD AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS VISITS TO L. D. S. FAMILIES VISITING TEACHERS VISITS TO SICK AND HOMEBOUND DAYS CARE OF THE SICK SEWING ARTICLES COMPLETED FOR CHURCH WELFARE, and 304,625 HOURS ON OTHER CHURCH WELFARE PROJECTS FAMILY WELFARE VISITS: TOTAL ARTICLES COMPLETED IN SEWING SERVICE Page 623 Joanna (Continued from page 609) brief hug in passing. "Oh, Mother, isn't life simply magical?" "IT must see this paragon you're dating," Joanna said. She rushed in and out of the tub and dressed swiftly. The white dress was the most becoming thing she had ever owned. She put on the gold slippers and went downstairs. Penny whistled. "You look out of this world, Mother." She was sitting on the hassock, her slim hands clenching and unclenching on the velveteen skirt. Joanna bit her lip. How well she remembered the pangs that went with a first date, the clammy feeling of inferiority. "'Rest assured, Penny, you'll look as swish as any of them. Where is the party to be held?" "IT don't know. It's just a patty, I guess. Mother, are you sure I don't look babyish in this collar?" A car stopped. Penny sprang to the window, her face flushing. "It's Tom! Quick, Mother. How do I look? Is my hair right?" She did not wait for an answer but ran to the mirror above the little table in the hall. She opened the door on his ring. Joanna sat very straight, trying to beat down the chuckles. I must look very friendly, she thought. The poor lad is probably in stitches of fright, too. Penny brought the boy in, her eyes dwelt on him, soft with adoration. "Mother, this is Tom Tom Nichols." Page 624 "Oh!" Joanna felt as if she would be sick. She stared at the boy, his dark, curly hair, his clear, thickly lashed eyes, his clean young mouth. Incredible that this should be the drunken boy who had lurched into her at the "Green Lady." The "Green Lady!" She had a swift vision of dancing girls... Penny's age, and the smoke and the raucous laughter. But surely this was different. She wet her lips. "Where do you plan to spend the night hours?" Flippant, not the frightened mother speaking. The boy shrugged a gray tweed shoulder. "Here and there. The crowd has things planned." "Tl run upstairs and get my coat," Penny said. She had spent hours wondering if she should have 'it ready in the living room, or if it would look as if she didn't really care whether she went or not, if she left it upstairs. OR a wild moment Joanna thought of fainting... Of putting her hand to her heart and complaining of a sudden devastating pain. She said dully, "Wait a minute, Penny. I don't believe youll need your coat." "Mother!" Penny came close, her eyes large with anxiety. Tom stirred impatiently. "The gang is waiting for us, Penny." Joanna said dully, "They will have to wait. Penny cannot go." "Oh, Mother!" The young agony was like a knife hurled into her heart. Joanna turned to Tom. "You JOANNA see, I was with Kent Taylor, at the "Green Lady."" You were well, intoxicated. I I can't let Penny go to such places. She means too much to me." She saw Penny's white, imploring face lifted to Tom's. They were against her, youth, laughter, the sweet, hot call of adventure allied against her age and experience and her love. Tom C shuffled uneasily, "Aw, gosh, Mrs. Niels. We were just having fun. We didn't mean anything. I promise not to touch anything tonight. What will the bunch say if I turn up without my date?" "What will they say about me?" The cry was tor from Penny's heart. Joanna ran her fingers through her hair. What to do? If she sent Tom away, it would take years before Penny would trust her again. She might not bring her friends home, she might tell them to meet her elsewhere. It was obvious Penny was in love with the boy. First love, but real enough. Joanna lifted her face. Tom said, "Gee! I wouldn't let anything happen to Penny." "IT can't let anything happen to her," Joanna said and smiled. Suddenly she looked at them. "Listen, would the gang mind changing places to go? I mean, how would they like to come here. We've a brand new batch of records, we can roll up the rugs, and I'll make you all a lunch you'll never forget. What about it?" They looked at each other, Tom and Penny. Joanna read their faces. They knew she would not let Penny go. To go without her meant loss 625 of face to Tom. The only solution was to make the best of a bad bargain. "We'll stay. We'll make the gang think we thought the idea up ourselves." Joanna was weak with relief. "Good for you! And by the time you get finished with one of our parties, you'll not be able to wait for the next one." "Okay! Ill run and get the others." He grinned at Penny and patted her arm. "It's all mnght," he said. The doorbell rang. Joanna turned to it. Kent. Kent! She went to the door and opened it. His eyes deepened when he saw her. "Beautiful," he said. "Are you teady, darling?" "Kent I can't go." She drew him with her into the kitchen and explained. He waited patiently until she had finished, but she saw his eyes growing colder and the sharp lines that came when he was angry springing up on his forehead. "Can't you come with me, and let the youngsters have their own party?" "No. No, Kent. I have to stay here... See that it is a success. A terrific success. So they will want to meet here, again and again. It has to be more fun than the "Green Lady,' or any of those places." E slapped his hat against his side. "Second place. Ill always take second place to the children. I'll be glad when we are back East, so I can have you to myself for awhile." Joanna straightened her shoulders. 626 She felt bowed to the earth under the weight of this burden, and though Kent stood before her, she was already lonely, the chill of it on her heart. "I'm not going back East with you, Kent. I can't leave Penny now." He dropped his hat and put his hands on her shoulders. He shook her. "Not going with me? What stupid thing is this? Of course you're going with me? I need you." "Penny needs me." "You promised you would come." He dropped his hands. "Joanna, you can't give your life to your children. Your whole life. You have a right to happiness." Joanna said heavily, "Only if it doesn't interfere with their lives. Oh, Kent, believe me, this is hard to say, but you don't really need me, not as Penny does. There wouldn't be a moment of peace for me. This is my job." He said savagely, "Your job! What pay will it give you? They'll leave you, Joanna. Every one of them will leave you. Penny is going now. She's running away into her own life. You can't stop her." "No," Joanna said. "I wouldn't want to stop her. But I must help her into the kind of life that will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 be rich and rewarding. Oh, I've heard about interfering mothers. I've read that we have no night to interfere in our children's lives, but I don't believe it. Should I spend sixteen years perfecting a thing of beauty and then close my eyes while the world takes over? Did I leave her alone when she learned to walk, or did I help? She's in love, Kent. To go away and leave her alone now would be like giving her a stick of dynamite to play with, hoping she wouldn't find matches." Kent picked up his hat. He said wearily. "I can see that staying would be utterly useless, and talking even more so." He looked about him. "A home. Well, I'll be too busy for a home for a long time to come." Joanna watched him go, his head held arrogantly and high. Then she turned and went heavily upstairs. She took off the gold slippers and the white jersey gown and found a blue dress and an apron. Penny was waiting alone for the return of Tom and the gang. Joanna went to her and held her close, feeling Penny stiffen against her. "It's going to be all right, Penny. Believe me. It's going to be all right." (To be continued) > Sonnet kd William Shakespeare No longer mourn for me when I am dead Than you shall hear the surly sullen bell Give warning to the world that I am fled From this vile world, with vilest worms to dwell: Nay, if you read this line, remember not The hand that writ it; for I love you so, That I in your sweet thoughts would be forgot, If thinking on me then should make you woe. O, if, I say, you look upon this verse, When I perhaps compound am with clay, Do not so much as my poor name rehearse, But let your love even with my life decay; Lest the wise world should look into your moan And mock you with me after I am gone. Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. ANNIVERSARY PARTIES, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ivie H. Jones SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION, DEL RIO (TEXAS) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY CONDUCTS A SUCCESSFUL BAZAAR Left to right: President Carolina Aguirre; First Counselor Gregoria Sandoval; Second Counselor Casta Soraiz; work director Rita Hernandez; Antonia Aguirre; Ester Aguirre.: These six women are very proud of their latest achievement in preparing an unusually successful supper and bazaar. They sold $31 worth of tickets for the supper and made $150 on the bazaar. This was a unique achievement since the branch is exceptionally small and there is no American branch in Del Rio from which the Spanish-Amenican branch might receive co-operation. Ivie H. Jones is president of the Spanish-American Mission Relief Society. Page 627 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 Photograph submitted by Vivian R. McConkie CALIFORNIA MISSION, CHINO VALLEY (ARIZONA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY FIRST PRIZE BOOTH AT YAVAPAI COUNTY FAIR September 1948 Lucille Bates Bunker and Dorothy Bates Scott supervised the arrangements of the booth, aided by Nello Scott, Leah Langford Sommers, Ita Hunt Turley, and Keith Bunker. The prize was $100, and all of the articles were made by the seventeen sisters in this branch. Note the beautifully designed quilts, crochet work, hand-embroidered pillow cases, and the numerous decorative articles. Vivian R. McConkie is president of the California Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Lola M. Shumway PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA), RECENTLY APPOINTED STAKE BOARD OFFICERS Seated, center front, President Lola M. Shumway. Back row, left to right: Counselor Jennie Engstrom; Secretary-Treasurer Irene Pratt; Counselor Lola Green. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 629 Photograph submitted by Lela M. Bailey SAN LUIS STAKE (COLORADO), ALAMOSA WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 17, 1949 Standing at the head of the tables, dressed in pioneer costume, President Mary Haynie and her counselors Cleone Berthclson and Clara Nissen, are holding the birthday cake. This delightful party was enjoyed by a large number of sisters who participated in a special prograin and luncheon in honor of the 107th birthday of Relief Society. Lela M. Bailey is president of San Luis Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mae Matis FINNISH MISSION, RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN AT CONFERENCE IN LARSMO PRESENT DRAMATIZATION OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY Left to right: Counselor Viola Ronnkvist; President Anna Stromberg, both of Larsmo Branch; Elsa Bloomquist, Secretary, Jacobstad Branch; Vera Nyman, President, Jacobstad Branch. Mae Matis is president of the Finnish Mission Relief Society. 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 Photograph submitted by Lorena W. Anderson TEMPLE VIEW STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), JEFFERSON WARD HONORS PAST OFFICERS AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1949 Left to right: former ward presidents: Lida C. Prince; Althera Farnsworth; present president Zina Mayland; former president Della Curtis (cutting the cake); Karren Anderson, a counselor to the first president of the ward Relief Society. Alice Davis (now deceased); Alice Graves, former ward president; Ida VanCott, secretary to former president Alice Davis; Lorena W. Anderson, President, Temple View Stake Relief Society. This enjoyable entertainment commemorated twenty-five years of Relief Society activities in Jefferson Ward. A history of these years of growth, composed by Mabel Jones Gabbott, was read by Gwen Jensen. An inspirational address was delivered by Bishop J. Donald Gabbott, representing the Priesthood. Lorena W. Anderson is president of Temple View Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Rhea F. Smurthwaite LIBERTY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), LIBERTY WARD PAGEANT "AMERICA, THE LAND OF PROMISE," March 6, 1949 Front row, at left, directly back of the piano, President Rhea F. Smurthwaite, and at her left Second Counselor Grace Foutz; at the right, seated against the railing, stake NOTES FROM THE FIELD 631 chorister Winnifred Smith, and next to her, First Counselor Theresa Weiss, author of the pageant (in co-operation with Karl Weiss). The pageant depicted the epic story of the American continent, told through characters representing the attributes of womanhood, such as motherhood, faith, service, 'love, chastity. The costumes were made in lovely pastel colors which added much to the effectiveness of the pageant. The Singing Mothers rendered music appropriate to the theme, the spirit of liberty. LaNola C. Driggs is president of Liberty Stake Relief Society. DMBibi bese ¢ Photograph submitted by Laura B. Bradshaw GRANITE STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS ENTERTAINED AT SPRING LUNCHEON, May 26, 1949 Front row, seated, left to nght: Emmaretta G. Brown; Myrtle B. Latimer; Agnes M. Bolto; Vauna S. Jacobsen. Standing, left to right: Beth C. Cannon; Ida M. Dean. In addition to the stake Relief Society presidents, other guests were the ward class leaders and ward and stake officers, members of Granite Stake presidency and their wives, a member of the high council, and representatives of the stake boards of all the other auxiliaries in the stake. Sister Blanche B. Stoddard of the Relief Society general board also attended the luncheon. President Ida M. Dean welcomed the guests and introduced the former presidents. A delicious luncheon was served, followed by a program of music, speeches, and readings. The table decorations were particularly attractive and significant for the occasion. Along the table were low white picket fences covered with climbing roses, through which arched gates swung open. At each gate stood a beautifully dressed doll. The favors at each place were small arched gates, decorated with pink flowers. At each gate stood a dainty miniature paper doll. Carrying out this artistic and thoughtful idea, Sister Dean read a poem which she composed. Parts of the poem are quoted below: "Dear friends, may we take you in fancy, down a pathway strewn with flowers Into an enchanted garden, and there spend a few happy hours ** & *€ So enter the open gateway, and rest beneath cooling bowers, But over your garden keep vigil, and refresh it with love's gentle showers." 632 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 Photograph submitted by Reva F. Wicker SOUTH DAVIS STAKE (UTAH), ORCHARD WARD SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED FOR CANTATA "EASTER SUNRISE SONG," Apni 17, 1949 Grace Porter, director of the chorus, is seen at the left in the dark dress, and at right, in black dress, Edna Lunt, reader; Cherry Brown, the accompanist, at left, in print dress.. Reva F. Wicker is president of South Davis Stake Relief Society. Oe Dy: is "<2 " oy " Bang, 2 o, et Photograph eubmitted by Zelma S. Muir BEAVER STAKE (UTAH), OLDEST AND YOUNGEST MEMBERS OF BEAVER WARDS RELIEF SOCIETIES Seated, left to right: Frances L. Jones; Dorothy Williams. Standing, left to right: Colleen S Shelby; Betty June P. Oakden; Ida Messinger. Harriett Yardley, third oldest member, had to leave before this photograph was taken. The occasion for honoring these women was the 17th of March Anniversary party. Phylis S. Warr is president of Beaver Stake Relief Society. LESSON = JE}DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 19—"Continuation of the Perean and Judean Ministry" up to and including "Parable of the Pharisee and Publican" Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 27, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, December 6, 1949 Objective: To continue the unfolding, by his matchless teaching, of the great gospel plan as taught by the Lord Jesus. In the House of One of the Chief Pharisees UDGED by the marvelous lessons he taught, the trip through Perea was one of the most important taken by the Savior. He did not hesitate to show his power, if thereby he might give to the people a much-needed lesson. While he was a guest at the home of a prominent Phanisee, a man afflicted with dropsy was healed by the Lord on the Sabbath day. He asked, "Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath day?" (Luke 14:3). No one ventured to answer. 'The answer was obvious. They had been taught to rescue an animal in trouble. Who would deny the blessing to a human being? Jesus did not hesitate to instruct in the matter of observing good manners. When guests at a dinner sought high places of honor, he stated an enduring moral law: "For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted" (Luke 14:11). This especially applies to workers in the Church and kingdom of God. A careful study should be made of the significant Parable of the Great Supper (Luke 14:16-24). It might be well to compare this with the parable relating to the marriage of the king's son (Matt. 22:2-14). Evidently, prior notice had been given in ample time to the chosen guests. It was to be a great event. Note carefully the excuses given by the invited prospective guests. It is so easy to find seemingly plausible excuses when we do not want to do a thing required of us or which we are invited to do. The man who had done the inviting was plainly angry because the guests invited first had not come. He commanded that the poor, the blind, and the maimed should be brought to the feast. This action indicated determination, but at the same time a disposition to do good and extend charity where needed. The lesson is plain. Israel, or the covenant race, was the specially invited guest. The children of Israel had been invited for a long while. Now they had been invited by the Messenger—Jehovah or the Christ, sent by the Father. They refused Page 633 634 the invitation and now the gospel would be carried to the Gentiles. Jesus declared of those who rejected his invitation, "For I say unto you, That none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper' (Luke 14:24). Counting the Cost The teaching of a profound lesson is recorded in Luke 14:25-35. During the journey we are considering, multitudes of people were attracted to the Lord wherever he appeared. When a certain scribe offered to become a disciple, Jesus explained the hardships and the self-denial that would follow, and the man's ardor soon cooled. 'The Master then applied a real test of sincerity. The genuine disciple must give up his wealth, his loved ones, and everything dear in life and follow the Savior. How many can and will do it now? Before one agrees to such an undertaking one should count well the cost. Salvation for "Publicans and Sinners'— Illustrative Parables Both Pharisees and Galileans had criticized Jesus because he had extended his ministry to the "publicans and sinners." He responded by giving them the well-known Parable of the Lost Sheep, somewhat modified from its former presentation to meet the needed lesson (Luke 15:2-7). In considering the application of this and the Parable of the Lost Coin, it should be pointed out that Jesus did not defend the evil ways of wicked people. He sought only to teach that we should rejoice when there is genuine repentance RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 on the part of the sinner. Jesus is the Good Shepherd. Of course he rejoices when a lost sheep is found. He rejoices also, however, over the good sheep who remain faithful within the fold. Let us next consider the Parable of the Prodigal Son (Luke 15: 11-32). It has been so much misunderstood. The action on the part of the younger son in demanding his portion of the father's estate while the father was yet alive was an instance of deliberate and unfilial desertion. He went into a far country and spent his substance in "riotous living." Only when he suffered in abject poverty did he repent. A forgiving father was glad to welcome him back home. The father expressed his gratitude in acts of kindness. The son, counted as dead, was now alive. The older son, mistaking the father's joy on the return of the prodigal son, was angry and refused to enter the house. The father explained to the churlish older son: "Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine." No portion of the older son's pattrimony was taken from him. We must not extol the repentance of the prodigal son above the faithfulness on the part of the older son. Surely the sacred joy over the faithful here and hereafter exceeds the joy over the return of a sinful soul, even though the repentance on the latter's part is sincere and genuine. It was clearly a great lesson for the Pharisees. They must have taken its application unto themselves. They were following the letter of the law, but were unwilling to extend forgiveness to a truly repentant son. The lesson is not only for Copyright, 1929, by Eugene A. Perry From a painting by Soord THE LOST SHEEP Page 635 636 the Pharisees but for all people anytime, everywhere. There is and always will be joy for the lost soul who repents and comes back, but it does not supersede the joy for the souls who remain true and faithful. The Disciples Instructed by Parable The Parable of the Unrighteous Steward (Luke 16:1-8) was given primarily to and for the disciples. The steward in the story was the authorized agent of the employer. He was acting within the scope of his authority. Careful men do not fail to make provision for their future years. Some are surprised to learn, while reading the parable, that this man's apparent dishonesty was extolled. This is not the case. "His prudence and foresight were commended." Derision of the Pharisees Met; Another Illustrative Parable More than passing attention should be given to the Parable of the Rich Man and Lazarus. Our Lord had given the hypocritical and scoffing Pharisees lessons on the right way of administering wealth. They thought, what does the poor Galilean know of such things? The Pharisees were crafty manipulators and yet were so successful in justifying their deeds before men as to appear honest. The Lord knew their hearts, and their practices were an abomination in his sight. He gave them an additional lesson by an unforgettable parable (Luke 16:19-31). These verses should be read. The rich man had fared sumptuously while on earth. He had been clothed in "purple and fine linen" while Lazarus, the beggar, "was laid at his gate, full of sores" and ate RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. Dogs shared the lot of Lazarus and, when he died, he was probably buried in a pauper's grave. The nameless rich man also died. It is recorded that Lazarus went to Abraham's bosom signifying the paradise of God. The nch man died and went to a place of torment. As a Jew, he had doubtless often boasted that Abraham was his father. Now he was asking only for something to soothe his suffering, which he thought Lazarus, the onetime beggar, might bring. The conversation is enlightening. It was possible for the righteous to converse with the wicked. However, Abraham explained that it was impossible to grant the rich man's request because between the abode of the righteous Lazarus and that of the wicked sufferer "There is a great gulf fixed." Passage between the two abodes was forbidden. Even by parable, Jesus taught truly concerning the conditions in the hereafter. That righteous and unrighteous dwell apart during the interval between death and resurrection is clear. The parable teaches the continuation of individual existence after death, and the relation of cause to effect between the life one leads in mortality and the state awaiting him beyond. Unprofitable Servants Jesus also taught his disciples by parable when he could thereby impress the lesson more forcibly. The apostles, realizing the whole-souled service required of them, implored the Lord, saying, "Increase our faith." On one occasion the Lord repeated to them instructions previously given: "If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say LESSON DEPARTMENT unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you" (Luke 17:6). Their faith could best be determined by their obedience and service. The Parable of the Unprofitable Servants is given in Luke 17:7-10. It teaches that those who engage in the work of the Lord should give all their time and attention to him and even that would not repay him for all he had done. The apostles were not to complain at their tasks. The best they could do would only be their duty. Ten Lepers Healed Following the lesson mentioned in the preceding paragraph, Luke alone records the miracle of the healing of the ten lepers (Luke 17:11-19). He thereby also taught a great lesson on gratitude. Only one of the ten remembered to turn back and thank the Lord for his great blessing. That one was a Samaritan. Truly Jesus was preparing the apostles for the great lesson that the gospel was for all who were obedient. The Pharisee and the Publican The Parable of the Pharisee and the Publican was spoken "unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others" (Luke 18:9-14). It was not addressed to any particular 637 class. It may be used to condemn the Pharisaic spirit of self-complacency wherever found. The Pharisee was grateful that he was better than the other in his own estimation. However, it is interesting to note that he prayed "with himself." Such prayers do not avail much with God. The repentant publican humbly asked for forgiveness and for mercy. The Lord summed up the lesson when he said, "For every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted." Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Apply the Parable of the Great Supper to our day. Why do our missionaries sometimes request applicants for baptism to wait for a while before joining the Church? 2. What proof may be cited from the Parable of the Rich Man and Lazarus of the conditions hereafter? Are spirits separated in paradise? 3. Discuss the Parable of the Unprofitable Servants as it applies to us. Are we willing to give more than is required of us in the service of the Lord? 4. What was the sin of the Pharisee who went up to the temple to pray? Show the danger of Latter-day Saints partaking of this spirit. References in the Gospels Matt. 8:19, 20; 9:10-13; 12:10; 19:3- 12, 16-30; 18:12-14; 20:1-16. Mark 10:13-31; 2:15-17. Luke: 5:29-32; 9:52-56; 10:25; 14:1-35; 15:11-32; 16:1-31; | 1721-37; 18:1-14, 18-30. Shere Js Joy Evelyn Fijeldsted There is song in the wind as it flies Through the willows and trees near a stream, There are lessons in mountains and fields; There is joy in a hope and a dream. 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 Ussiting Seacher IT lessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 3—"These Things | Have Spoken Unto You, That in Me Ye Might Have Peace" (John 16:33) Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, December 6, 1949 Objective: To affirm that through conforming our lives to the teachings of Christ, we may possess peace in our souls. HRIST came to prepare men's hearts so that they, as worthy subjects, would develop characteristics of the kingdom of God. A righteous kingdom cannot be established by unrighteous subjects. It follows then that the more closely individuals conform their lives to the teachings of Christ, the more neatly are they fitted to be his subjects. If they live according to his laws they will have peace in their hearts, for his is a peaceful kingdom. Love is the foundation of his teachings. Faith in God and service to fellow men, justice, tolerance, and forgiveness are characteristics of the true followers of the Master. "These things I have spoken unto you," he said, "that in me ye might have peace" (John 16:33). Not all wars are waged on fields of battle. 'Turmoil as tempestuous as that of actual war can sometimes rage in human hearts, but peace that passeth understanding can be had by those who have learned the way of peace. Never has there been a time when more people were confused and troubled and seeking for that great blessing, peace of mind. And yet how simple it would be for them to obtain it through righteous living. They are like the youthful characters in Maeterlinck's Blue Bird, who set out from their home in search of happiness only to find, after wandering far and near, that it had been within their reach in the familiar surroundings of their own home all the time. In his book Unto the Hills, in the section titled "Peace Within and Without," Elder Richard L. Evans has made some significant statements. He defines peace as belonging:... To an attitude of mind which leaves the windows of the soul open to all truth and the will to live in accordance with that truth.... Peace is more than mere absence of war. It is a mode of living, a state of well-being; a condition of self-control and social balance. He who has mastered self has found peace, even though there be no peace around him (Unto the Hills, page 123 ff.). What are the spoilers of inward peace? Elder Evans answers:.. Vanity and self-love, greed, unholy ambitions, crooked thinking.... The memory of things that should never have been done; the confusion that lurks in the human mind when the line of demarkation between truth and error is obscured; the consciousness of time's passing quickly by without our having freighted it with a full measure of achievement. In short those things which LESSON DEPARTMENT destroy our peace are the things which in all times and in all ages have been forbidden to men by the Lord God and the wisdom of experience.... The price of peace is obedience—obedience to all that the 639 ages have proved, obedience to all that the Lord has commanded, and obedience to all of those finer things that men already know in their inmost hearts (Ibid., page 124 ff.). ' Work ITleeting—Sewing Children's Clothing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Play Clothes Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, December 13, 1949 GINCE a very large part of children's lives is spent at play, clothes for play assume an important place in their wardrobes. Though they are quite expensive to buy, they can be made at little cost and are easy to do. Children are vigorous at play and often careless of their apparel. We do not want them to be unduly destructive or careless. But, on the other hand, we certainly do not want to dress them in such a manner that they are too conscious of their clothes and thus hampered in their play. Material for these garments must be appropriate to their purpose. They should be durable and very sturdy. And they should be made of fabrics that can easily be laundered. Play clothes should be quite comfortable for the wearer. They should allow ample room for activity and growth. If a child's clothes restrict him or are irritating, this. Will likely be reflected in his actions and disposition. He will show his irritation and dissatisfaction by becoming fretful or even naughty. 'Play clothes, almost more than any others, need to be made so that they are easy to put on and off. For younger children, choose the selfhelp style of garment. For older ones, be sure to allow plenty of placket room and long enough openings. Be sure that cuffs are not too tight and neck openings ample. Durable workmanship is necessary if the child's garment is to withstand severe strain, hard wear, and laundering. The stitching should be adjusted for the fabric and the thread should match the fabric in strength. Styles for play clothes are numerous and fabrics almost unlimited. Denims are sold in an endless variety of colors and designs. Some of C the heavier weights of spun rayon and cotton are ideal for this use. For the tiny tot, the coverall type of garment is easy and most satisfactory for boys and girls. As they grow older, sturdy dresses, or pedal pushers with gay shirts or jerseys, are nice for girls. Make gay flannel or cotton print shirts for boys to wear with heavy denim or cotton cord trousers. The felled seam is generally preferable as a finish for play clothes. It 640 is strong and durable as well as flat and neat looking. It serves equally well for trousers or slacks and shirts. Plackets should be ample in length and extra strong. Zipper closings are always good, as are continuous bound plackets. Either should be double stitched at the bottom. Buttons need a reinforcement behind them. Woven tape, patches of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 material, or stay buttons on the wrong side of the garment help prevent them from pulling out. Stitches of worked buttonholes should touch to make a firm edge and the thread should be sturdy. Commercial gripper fasteners make an ideal closing for play clothes. 'They are easy to apply and give excellent service. ~~ ol, stov@ieume— Wee Literature of England Elder Briant S. Jacobs Lesson 3—The Poet Shakespeare For Tuesday, December 20, 1949 VEN while our world continues to worship sensation, science, and the new model, Shakespeare endures. Despite the weaknesses of youth and the busied indifferences of maturity, there are those within each generation who arise to call his name one of the sweetest and strongest in the language. Increasingly each year his works are taught and read and performed, surely to feed a constant hunger for that which sustains. Now, as always since he wrote, Shakespeare is known and loved; it is Our present concern to ask why. In this short space it would be high presumption to attempt an evaluation of William Shakespeare, the supreme English author and dramatist, as revealed in his thirtyseven plays. Setting aside, then, a study of his plays as a course to be anticipated in future years, let us attempt to learn for ourselves who Shakespeare was and is, and why the literary and poetic values of his writings are unsurpassed. Although an immense accumulation of conjecture and opinion about Shakespeare's life now exists, actually we know precious little about him, and never has the little been more precious. In 1564 he was born in the country town of Stratford, located on the Avon River some eighty miles northwest of London. His parents were of the prosperous middle class, his father described alternately as a butcher, a wool merchant, and a dealer in gloves. At the age of eighteen Shakespeare married Anne Hathaway, a farmer's daughter eight years older than he, who bore him three children. In his early twenties he went to London. Weare led to believe that he was employed in various minor jobs in one of the two London theaters, but by 1592, in his twentyeighth year, he was known both as an actor and as a writer of plays. Soon after this date he further established his popularity among the nobility by dedicating two poems, Venus and Adonis and the Rape of Lucrece to Henry Wriothesley, Ear] LESSON DEPARTMENT of Southampton, who seems to have been his intimate friend as well as his patron (a wealthy art-lover who financed artists and musicians who in turn dedicated their works to him). Most of his sonnets are believed to have been written during this period, from 1593 to 1596. He began writing two plays each year, and directed his own company of actors. At age thirty-three he purchased the largest house in Stratford; he also maintained a home in London where, save for periodical visits to Stratford, he spent most of his time. In 1611, at the height of his highly successful career, Shakespeare suddenly severed active connections with the theater and moved to Stratford. Here for the next five years he lived the life of a respected gentleman. He continued his friendship with various actors until he died at the age of fifty-two, presumably of the dreaded plague. About all these sketchy biographical details prove to us is that, so far as we can verify historically, his life was a simple and conventional one. He must have received no more education than the average town school offered, nor do we learn of any great mind which, during Shakespeare's most impressionable years, stimulated his genius. How, then, are we to account for the emergence of this man who, more than any other, molded into our language the strength, the flexibility, and the maturity which characterize modern English? From whence came this master dramatistactor-poet who, it has been said, exerted more influence on the growth of British traditions, even on the growth of the British Empire 641 itself, than any other person? Perhaps in the temper of the times, the most creative and vital in English history, lies at least part of our anSWeT. If Shakespeare was the flower of the Renaissance (rebirth), as he is generally acknowledged to be, the plant which produced such a bloom itself could have been no mean creation. Politically, economically, socially, and religiously, "the spacious times of Elizabeth" were epoch making. The strong, autocratic Tudors —Henry VII, Henry VIII, Elizabeth —defied any and all powers which seemed to endanger the unlimited expansion of everything English, and the emerging English middle classes but loved them the more for their courage and audacity, and for the wealth and intellectual freedom which resulted. Out of the confusion and uncertainty of the Hundred Years War with France (1337- 1453) and the English civil war, known as the Wars of the Roses (1455-1485), the Tudors built a vigorous, unified England. Following the discoveries of Columbus and others, England, through her fleet and her maritime skill, made herself the crossroads of the world. After the defeat of the Spanish Armada in 1588, the military and commercial supremacy of England was assured, particularly so because of Queen Flizabeth's aggressive leadership. The resulting wave of nationalism gave further growth to the "pride of the English"; Shakespeare echoed it in his historical plays glorifying the English traditions. Henry V, for example, has been aptly described as an English national epic in dramatic form. 642 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 Inspirational 3-Part Music Women's Voices All in the April Evening—Diack._...15 Bless This House—Brahe _.. _._..15 The Bridge Builder—Dougall. 18 Come to Me—Beethoven 16 He Smiled on Me—O'Hara. _— 20 Hold Thou My Hand—Briggs..___ 15 How Beautiful Upon the Mountains —Harker 7 16 How Lovely Are the Messengers— Mendelssohn a2 I Shall Not Again Pass This Way— Effinger 18 If with All Your Hearts—Mendelssohn as The King of Glory—Parks _..___.. 20 The Lord's Prayer—Gates_ __.._.. 18 Write for information on music for all types of L. D. S. Choral groups. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. We pay postage. We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories; and records. PIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY Paynes When Henry VIII directed the passage of the Acts of Supremacy in 1534, England was freed from the domination of the Pope, and Henry became head of the English Church. A year later the power of the printing press became more evident when Miles Coverdale printed the first complete English Bible, and since reading and writing rapidly became common, each Englishman soon learned to read his Bible for himself. Inevitably a new freedom characterized the realm of the intellect as well. In contrast to the other worldly Middle Ages, scholars concerned themselves with man and the immediate world about him. They sought to explain their environment as perceived by the senses. As a result of the use of the inductive scientific method, the sciences of chemistry, physics, and medicine began to emerge from the realms of superstition and quackery. Literature followed the classical Greek models, and borrowed profusely from Continental literary fashions, particularly those of Italy. Written by some Oxford scholars, but largely by gentlemen of the court and the middle classes, the literature became experimental, word conscious, and purely lyrical, so filled with natural melody and song that poetry might seem to be the common speech of Englishmen. The "spaciousness" of the age was surely not in physical London, which to us would in part be smelly, dirty, unsanitary, and cruel; instead, as Englishmen walked her narrow streets, it was their imaginations which soared without restraint. They saw visions and dreamed dreams of "brave new LESSON DEPARTMENT worlds," and, to describe what they saw and felt, they wrote for us the incredibly rich Elizabethan _literature, brimming with virility, naturalness, and originality. It is in probing this vein that we may enjoy the richest ore literature has produced: the writings of Shakespeare. However, we must remember that literature is never the sum total of whatever biographical details, sources, and influence were drawn upon in producing it. Literary excellence is not dependent upon the materials of a work of art, but upon what use is made of the materials. 'This observation is_particularly pertinent in studying Shakespeare, who borrowed the plots of almost all his plays. Wherein, then, does his originality lie? Like Chaucer, Shakespeare knew all classes, types, and characters of humanity. Neither condemning nor praising, neither concealing unflattering reality nor slighting the humorous or lovely, he looked into the heart of all humanity and wrote of what he saw with a piercing, lyrical freshness, and a deep-probing intellectual intensity which by their own stamp of excellence are peculiarly his. He has been halfway defined, almost too often, as a master in the use of words. As if one's literary excellence invariably increases in direct ratio to the size of one's vocabulary! We must remember Henry Ward bBeecher's thought, that "Words are pegs to hang ideas on." Not to deny that Shakespeare's word list is both large and pure: it is phenomenally so. But the beauty and the power of his style are produced, not by the isolated words he uses, but by his power of combining 643 SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO. CANYON COOL For YOUR SHOPPING COMFORT Spend a few comfortable, cool shopping hours at Sears! Clean, water-washed, pollen-free air, gives you relief from hot summer days! Main or State at 8th South SALT LAKE CITY Joseph Wm. Taylor UTAH PIONEER Mortuary Organized 1882 Since then there have been held 134 CONFERENCES LISTEN TO KDYL SUNDAY 9:45 A. M. Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck 125 North Main Phone 3-7824 SALT LAKE CITY For BEAUTIFUL Spring Flowers Bulbs, Plants and Seeds must be Planted This Fall Call or Write for FREE BULB and SEED Catalo¢ Giving Full Details Everything for the Home Grounds At Our New Motor Mart Garden PORTER-WALTON C0. 550 South 6th East Salt Lake City, Utah Plan now to enroll Sept. 6 You can qualify better for a business career with the thorough training you'll receive at L. D. S. Business College. Inquiries welcomed at any time. Write for free literature L. D. S. Business College 70 North Main Salt Lake City RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 words to force them to express precisely the idea or emotion he would convey to his audience. Shakespeare is a lyric poet, two terms equally difficult of definition. An attempt to define poetry is doomed to no more success than an attempt to define music, beauty, love; it is much easier exemplified than defined. Originally with the Greeks, lyric designated that which was to be sung with the lyre; the lyric is still to be identified by its melody and song-like quality, but it is a melody more of manner than of form. Any intense personal emotion—religion, love, grief—may be the material of a lyrical poem; all the emotions provide the subject matter of Shakespeare's lyrics. Pertinent here, both for manner and content, is Miranda's speech from The Tempest: O wonder! How many goodly creatures are there here! How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world, That has such people in't. If Shakespeare is the universal poet, we should find at once that his imagery attracts us; a reading of Shakespeare should clear our minds and souls of the trivial and the artificial, and from the truth and intensity of its content make us feel vibrantly aware and alive. Not only can Shakespeare perceive the truth, but he catches its essence and hands it to us for the taking, condensed in a nutshell. For example, "Tender inward of the hand" delicately catches the assence of an almost intangible, yet very real, sensation; "liberty plucks justice by the nose" tells far | more than it says. The list of such LESSON DEPARTMENT illustrations in Shakespeare is endless—as vast as Shakespeare himself. Because his phrases and epigrams are uniquely apt and therefore memorable, Shakespeare has lent many of them to our language, from "Brevity is the soul of wit" to "Something is rotten in the state of Denmark." Probably more of his phrases have been used as book titles than those of any other writer; throughout the centuries the music and intensity of his lines have found a sure audience. Consider, for example, the following, but a few of his best known: Use every man after his desert, And who should 'scape whipping (Hamlet). Thus conscience does make cowards of us all (Hamlet). How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is To have a thankless child (King Lear). Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! Rage! Blow! You cataracts and hurricanes, spout Till you have drenched our steeples, drowned the cocks! You sulphurous and thought-executing fires Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts, Singe my white head! And thou, all-shaking thunder, Smite flat the thick rotundity 0' the world! Crack nature's molds, all germens spill at once That make ungrateful man!. Rumble thy bellyfull! Spit, fire! Spout, rain! (King Lear). Nothing in his life Became him like the leaving it (Macbeth). If music be the food of love, play on (Twelfth Night). What's in a name? That which we call a rose By any other name would smell as sweet (Romeo and Juliet). Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day 645 Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops (Romeo and Juliet). The quality of mercy is not strained, It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath: it is twice blest; It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes (Merchant of Venice). How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank! Here will we sit, and let the sounds of music Creep in our ears; soft stillness and the night Becomes the touches of sweet harmony (Merchant of Venice). Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once. Of all the wonders that I yet have heard, It seems to me most strange that men should fear; Seeing that death, a necessary end, Will come when it will come (Julius Caesar). Good name in man and woman, dear my lord, Is the immediate jewel of their souls: Who steals my purse steals trash; 'tis something, nothing; "Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands; But he that filches from me my good name Robs me of that which not enriches him, And makes me poor indeed (Othello). All the world's a stage, And all the men and women merely players. They have their exits and their entrances, And one man in his time plays many parts (As You Like It). The music of Shakespeare's lyrical note is found pure and undefiled in the songs from the plays, which actually were sung. Most of his plays contain a few such songs, while The Tempest contains so many that it approaches opera. For a natural freshness and charm, for simple, memorable word music, his songs are 646 CONFERENCE VISITORS Delight in coming to our store to see the newest things in GIFTS An advanced showing of oustanding and distinctive PERSONALIZED Christmas farts You will find it a pleasure to browse among these displays of Cards of newest design and beauty EVERYTHING IN OFFICE FURNITURE Pembrokes 24 East Broadway Professional aah aol Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 unrivalled. For example, read aloud from our text, pp. 429-433 those which most appeal to you, whether it be "When icicles hang by the wall" for its strong, everyday imagery and skillful use of contrast; "Who is Sylvia?" for its music and pure lyrical beauty; "You spotted snakes with double tongue," for music and tealistic imagery of nature; "Tell me where is fancy bred" for its unusual thythm and intellectual surprise; "Under the greenwood tree" for its lilting, carefree praise of nature; "It was a lover and his lass" for sparkling love music; "O mistress mine," for its serene, lyrical praise of innocent love; "Hark, hark! The lark" for its music and imagery; "Full fathom five" for its mood of eerie mystery; and "Where the bee sucks" for the simple but unrivalled charm of nature. Let us sum up some of the qualities of Shakespeare's greatness. He is the poet in whose writings all the separate elements that make up poetry have been combined in greatest beauty. Perhaps the first of these qualities is his portrayal of humanity. He possessed a profound and sympathetic knowledge of mankind and created characters with individuality that yet are typical and subtly like the people you andI know. Second, he is the master in the English language in the use of words for the beauty in themselves and as the servants of thought. Third, the beauty and power of his style are produced by his ability to make words express precisely the idea or emotion he would convey. Fourth, his use of the whole scale of emotions from tragic pathos to rollicking jollity with a middle range LESSON DEPARTMENT of all the emotions of human ¢€xFifth, his deep-probing intellectual intensity lives. Sixth, lyrical freshness of rhyme, Verse, and prose and the ability to vary these every shade of thought charactetize all his works. Seventh, he was wisdom and preciation of nature and the undescribable lightness and grace as well as the deep thundering force of his descriptions ate memorable. Things, as well as the very personal appeal to each of us, are the great: ness of Shakespeare. Note to Class Leaders: For background read the introductory essay, PP- 279-305" particularly 279-290 299-305, and "William Shakespeare," PP: In reading the best of his sonhere we find lyric poetry and the sonnet form at their best. Numbers 18, 33- and 647 116 are favorites. Unfortunately sonnet 71 has been omitted from our text, but may be found on page 626 of this Magazine. Present each sonnet as a unit by reading it aloud, then discussing its values and difficulties. 1. Would you say Shakespeare's mind and imagery were dominated by his years: n London, or by his years in Stratford? Achieve fame as 4 become known as 4 seem cramped and dirty, wherein was the orign of the "spaciousness" of this most important age in England's his- _ Discuss Shakespeare as a lyric poet. 6. Bring to class some titles of books taken from Shakespeare's phrases. 7. Be prepared to cite favorite passages from Shakespeare. Suggestion: Correlate music with the h Shakespearean songs aS > as special music. — S - —— SOCIAL SCIENCE AND OPTIONAL LESSONS No lessons are planned for December in these departments, season. ~~ a Night Jeanette Pp. Parry Llove the night, the magic night That settles soft and still, And beckons to the rising moon That peeks above the hill. I love the night, deep purple night, When cares of day are gone, I love the night when shadows break— For it reveals the dawn. A Friend Like You Hilde Wittemund I do not ask for silver or gold, - Not for a palace or lands, But I do ask for a friend like you, A friend who understands. When stormy clouds of trouble come When you need helping hands, Then let me be the chosen one—— The friend who understands. It is a dream So sacred, true, A dream that never ends, If I can have a friend like you— A friend, who understands. From lear and Sar Since the death of my husband The Relief Society Magazine has been a second companion to me. Countless times I have found answer to my problems from its fine, down-to-earth editorials. I enjoy the stories that leave one better for having read them and the interesting, stimulating articles that enrich my household. —Flossie Caldwell, Monrovia, California The Relief Society Magazine has long been a part of my household. As time goes on it seems to take on added interest. I enjoy very much the beautiful and spiritual editorials, Just the other day the July number, with the preview of the coming year's lessons, came. The first installment of early English literature, by Briant S. Jacobs, is especially interesting. The lesson is portrayed so beautifully and in such an understandable way that I couldn't lay aside the Magazine until I had read the lesson all the way through. —Ann W. Beauregard, Salt Lake City, Utah I appreciate the inspiring lessons we have had and receive so much benefit myself while I study. When we had our last lesson in May the sisters expressed themselves as to how much the lessons had strengthened their testimonies and they related incidents where stories and readings had helped them to understand the gospel more fully. —Mrs. Myrtle G. Olson, Cardston, Alberta, Canada I am receiving the Magazine every month and I look forward to its coming. It is a very interesting little book. It is spring weather here in England and the trees and hedges and shrubs are coming out beautifully. With kind regards, —Lizzie Redington, Hastingwood, Essex, England I have thoroughly enjoyed every issue of your Magazine and all the Relief Society lessons, too. May you have continued success. —Jean C. Martindale, Hailey, Idaho Page 648 I appreciate receiving The Relief Society Magazine as it contains many things that are helpful in starting conversations with the women we meet while out tracting. I also find that the Magazine is a missionary within itself. Most women in general are interested in the part the women play in the Church. —Elder Richard L. Sisam, Schenectady, New York Once again it is time to renew my subscription for the most wonderful Magazine in the world! May I tell you how I enjoy the Magazine and my mother and my grandmother in the Deep South also express their feelings on how much the Magazine has helped them. —Dorothy B. Moon, Hanna, Utah The poetry in the Magazine is of such fine quality it makes me happy to have an acceptance from you. I also enjoy the entire Magazine, but read the poetry first. —Katie Harris Lewis, Malad City, Idaho What lovely stories you publish. I do enjoy the Magazine. —Grace Sayre, Pasadena, California Truly saying, if each woman who takes this wonderful Magazine would share it and its teachings with her neighbor, how much more love could be given and that is what the world is in need of today. —Orpha B. Nally, Lordsburg, New Mexico How often have I wished for some impressive way of expressing to you my keen appreciation and love for our Reliet Society Magazine and for the help and inspiration its many departments have brought to me during the last thirteen years that I have labored as a literary class leader. —Cleopha J. Jensen, Brgham City, Utah I love your Magazine. My little daughter and I read it together, setting aside time each day to do so. —Iris Taylor Connolly, Salt Lake City Keliof Sociely T ci Aeaion! Cae TEXT BOOK "The Literature of England" by Woods, Watt and Anderson (Third Edition) $ 50 PER COPY by mail, $4.75 AVAILABLE NOW Ww DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City 10, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers Wren you use U & I Sugar for preserving, canning, or freezing of finest, purest, whitest sugar you can find anywhere. There is none better. Always buy U &! 
