[Column 1]
	AN IMPORTANT EVENT.
	This number of the paper commences
the thirty-fourth volume of the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT;—just thirty-three years June
first of this year since this little messen-
ger made its advent into the world of liter-
ature, a newly-fledged offering to the
women of the Rocky Mountain region,
and a surprise to many here, yet a most
welcome token of woman's enlighten-
ment and uplifting.
	In February, 1870, the women of Utah
had the privilege of equal suffrage given
to them, and it seemed necessary that
they should have an organ of communi-
cation from one to another to express the
fulness of joy that comes with great
privileges and opportunities. There are
still, however, many among the people
of the outside world who think Mormon
women have no method by which they
express their true feelings, and are igno-
rant on all the great questions of the day
upon which other women are so well in-
formed. It would be amusing, if it were
not such a serious matter, to hear how
women of the world speak of Mormon
women, who, if they were not so blinded
by prejudice,  they could scarcely help
knowing, that every avenue is open to
the women of the Mormon Church to
advance along every and all lines of
s[-]udy and research, and of active occupa-
tions quite as much so as in the world
outside; our people travel hither and
thither, and are in constant communica-
tion by means of railroad traffic, steam,
etc., telegraph and telephone, with
cities and countries, near and afar off.
	There are probably as many books sold
in Utah and adjacent states and territo-
ries among Mormon people as those of
other churches, and even as of other
states where fewer Mormons dwell. The
Mormon women are decidedly progres-
sive, actively so in the strict sense of the
word. When the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
was first issued there were only two wo-
men's papers in the West and very few in
the East, the Woman's Journal of Bos-
ton, founded by Lucy Stone, is now in its
thirty-sixth year. It is the only one of
its kind in the East that has survived so
long, of the few that have been started
since, and it has gone through some very
hard struggles. The New North-West, pub-
lished in Portland, Oregon, was started in
1869 but has been discontinued for some
years. The Golden Dawn, in San Fran-
cisco, begun about the same time as our
little paper, only lived a few years.

