[Column 1]
This conversation occured at a time
when his father did not expect to live
long, and shortly before his death and in
the presence of his wife and daughter;
said that he had been baptized when nine
years of age, but had not been confirmed
a member of the Church at that time,
and consequently did not become a
member until he recently joined the
Church; said he would be 75 years of age
within a few days, and he wished to pass
the remainder of his days as a member of
the Church.
	Sister Adaline Belnap, of Hooper, was
pleased to bear her testimony; said she
was baptized in Nauvoo, and knew
Brother John W. Rigdon there, and pray-
ed that he would remain faithful to the
end; spoke of the early days of the
Church and of the trials of those days,
and of her acquaintance with the Prophet
Joseph, and prayed that we would all be
faithful to the end.
	President C. F. Middleton was pleased
to meet with the sisters in Conference
capacity, and was pleased to hear the
testimony of Brother John W. Rigdon;
said his remarks had reminded him of a
great many incidents in his own life that
had happened during the time of the raid
on the Saints in the city where he lived;
said he had been in the Church all his
life, and was thankful to have had that
privilege; related early incidents of the
Church, and bore a faithful testimony;
spoke of the great blessing that the Re-
lief Society is to the bishops; spoke of
how the Lord had blessed Sister Richards
in her position, and of the great good she
had accomplished; said he knew her
noble husband and honored his name, and
also honored all noble men and women;
he knew Joseph Smith to be a prophet of
God, and also knew that our present
President, Joseph F. Smith, is a prophet
of God, and said that we should uphold
and sustain him in his position, and ex-
horted all to sustain the leaders of all the
auxiliary organizations in the Church, and
asked the blessings of the Lord upon all.
	Brother Sanford Bingham was pleased
to have heard the testimonies borne, and
was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and bore a faithful testimony to
the truth of the Gospel; was glad to see
so many present, and was acquainted
with Brother John W. Rigdon in the
early days, and closed his remarks by
asking the Lord to bless all.
	Brother Walter W. Crane stated that
he believed the testimonies which he had
heard, and said he knew the Gospel to be
true; had known all the presidents of the
Church except the Prophet Joseph; had
faith and confidence in our President to-
day, and had faith that he would lead this
people aright.
	Sister Josephine Farr bore a faithful
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and
was thankful to have had parents who
had taught her these things, and prayed
to be faithful to the end.
	Sister Ruthinda Moench, of Logan, ad-
dressed the Conference; was grateful to
be able to meet with her old friends, ac-
quaintances and workers in the Relief
Society; she rejoiced in the Gospel, and
felt well to see that Sister Richards and
others were able to do their duty; spoke
of a dream which she had heard related,
and closed her remarks by asking the
blessings of the Lord upon all.
	Sister Lucretia Farr was thankful to

