			WEBER STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference
of the Relief Society of the Weber Stake
of Zion, held at the Relief Society Hall
Ogden, the 6th day of June, 1905.
	Conference convened at ten o'clock a.
m., President Jane S. Richards presiding.
Singing: "Let Us Pray, Gladly Pray."
Prayer by Bishop Robert McQuarrie.
Singing: "We Thank Thee, O God, for
a Prophet." Minutes of the March Con-
ference were read and approved. Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards addressed the Con-
ference, and made a few opening remarks,
and wished that we had more room, as
the attendance was so large. Sister
Richards explained that the reason why
the Conference was held at this time in-
stead of on Thursday, June 8th (the usual
time) was because President Joseph F.
Smith had been invited to attend the
Conference and could not be present at
any other time than today. A letter from
President Smith, accepting the invitation
to attend this Conference, was read.
	Brother P. G. Taylor addressed the
Conference; felt thankful to meet with
the sisters of the Relief Society of the
Weber Stake of Zion; felt it an honor to
meet with the Latter-day Saints; had
been associated with the Relief Society
of the Weber Stake for many years, and
loved all, and his heart went out to all;
spoke of his long acquaintance with and
friendship for Sister Richards, and of the
many years spent by her in the Relief
Society cause; said it was the duty of the
members of the Relief Society to support
her in her position; mentioned his early
membership in the Church, and his ac-
quaintance with the Prophet Joseph, and
closed his remarks by bearing a faithful
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and
asked the blessings of the Lord upon all.
	Sister Richards was pleased to see so
many present; spoke about the Nickel
Fund, and wished this to be kept up, as
the Relief Society is in need of funds with
which to purchase chairs; referred to the
incidents mentioned by Brother P. G.
Taylor, bore testimony to the truth of his
remarks, and said she would like to have
the brethren attend the ward meetings of
the Relief Society as well as the Con-
ferences.
	Counselor Harriet C. Brown was pleased
to see so many brethren present; was
thankful to be able to be present herself
and to see Sister Richards with us, and
said Counselor Shurtliff would not be
able to be present to-day, and closed her
remarks by thanking the Lord for His
many blessings to her.
	Sister Richards introduced Brother
John W. Rigdon, a son of Sidney Rigdon,
who addressed the Conference; he said
he was a late member of the Church,
having joined only last October, but had
had a knowledge of this Church since
the beginning; he related his early life
with the Church, and also related a con-
versation with his father as to the divine
authenticity of the Book of Mormon, and
his father's testimony in regard to the
same, stating that his father's enemies
had made the charge that the Book of
Mormon had been written by him; and
his father declared to him that he had
never seen the book until it was delivered
to him by Parley P. Pratt and two others.


