IN MEMORIAM. 
Jane R. Bennett, who recently passed away, was 
born in Shottan, near Howarden, Flintshire, North 
Wales, June 22, 1824. She embraced the Gospel 
Dec. 1850, and came to Utah in 1863, with her 
faithful husband and her children. 
She was a woman of much faith and charity, be-
ing a left a widow for 35 years, she was in deep sym-
pathy with the widows and fatherless, had always 
a kind word to speak to all she met, and imparted 
her substance to those in need. She had indeed 
overcome the things of earth and her only desire 
for means was to help others 
She was called to the bedside of nearly all the 
sick, her gentle touch would soothe the aches 
and pains; her willingness to do good was one of 
her many virtues. Sister Bennett acted as coun-
selor to the president of the Relief Society in Hol-
den, Utah for 25 years, the office of which she held 
at the time of her death.  We so miss her in all 
our associations and gatherings, as her sweet face 
was always there to encourage us in well doing. 
Much could be said of the good Mother Bennett 
did, and the counsel and encouragement she gave, 
But we feel her mission was completed and the 
Father called her with the greeting, "Well done, 
my handmaiden, thy labor has been accepted. 
enter into my kingdom." 
Mother Bennett, how we miss her 
When grief and sorrow come our way,
Or when in need of her wise counsel 
To give us courage day by day.


She was ever near to bless us, 
Ever ready to impart 
Love and kindness, hope and courage, 
To the trouble, aching heart. 
But we feel she's with the ransomed, 
Worthy of a crown most rare, 
May we follow her example
That we some day may meet her there. 
NANCY M. ASHBY, Pres., 
EMILY MCKEE, Sec. 
Holden. 
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
Whereas our Father in heaven in His infinite 
wisdom has seen fit to take from our midst one of 
our esteemed sisters, Lilian Broberg, a beloved 
daughter of Sister Joanna Broberg, one of the effi-
cient officers of the 17th Ward Relief Society, and 
whereas in the demise of Sister Lilian the ward 
has lost a lovely young woman and a faithful 
Latter-day Saint, therefore be it. 
Resolved, that we the members of the 17th 
Ward Relief Society extend our heartfelt sympathy 
to the bereaved family in their hour of sorrow.
That we ever cherish the memory of our de-
ceased sister and regard her virtues as worthy of
emulation.
That a copy of these resolutions be presented 
to Brother and Sister Broberg and one be placed 
on the records of the 17th Ward Relief Society. 
FIDELIA JACOBS, Pres., 
