MARY A. LIVERMORE.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore one of the
most famous, and one of the best known
women in the United States, and one
whose name has been heralded around
the world departed this life May 23, 1905.
	Mrs. Livermore continued her public
work to the v[-]ry last, she spoke at the
New England Suffrage Festival in Fan-
euil Hall, Boston on May 10. "She had
fainted four times that day, and was
quite unfit to be out; but she was deter-
mined to be there and to make the pre-
sentation speech when the Massachutetts
W. S. A. gave Mr. Blackwell the silver
pitcher in honor of his 80th birthday."
	"The next day she spoke again at a
meeting of the Melrose W. C. T. U. but
was forced to break off by a severe fit of
coughing. She had a bronchial attack,
lay  unconscious for several days, and
finally succumbed to heart failure, pass-
ing away without pain."
	"The funeral of this distinguished
woman was held in the First Congre-
gational Church at Melrose, Mass. on
May 25. The city was in mourning, the
flags at half-mast, the schools and places
of business closed. The G. A. R. Post
carried the coffin to the church. The
pall-bearers were Wm. Loyd Garrison,
Rev. Charles G. Ames and Henry B.
Blackwell. There was a great crowd,
including many persons of distinction."
	Mrs. Livermore's history is full of in-
teresting incidents, and gives one an idea
of the tendencies in childhood that develop
into strong characteristics in mature life.
It also shows something of heredity.
	"Mary Ashton Rice was born in North-
field, Mass. Dec. 19, 1820. Her father
Timothy Rice was of Welsh descent and
had served in the war of 1812-1815."
	From him it is said she inherited
strength and stature and something of her
gift of language. Her mother Zebiah
Vose Glover Ashton was the daughter of
Capt. Nathaniel Ashton of London, Eng-
land. Captain Ashton married a Boston
woman. She was so fond of her own
native country that she would not leave
it.
	Mrs. Livermore says in her childish im-
agination the Captain seemed to be "for-
ever standing with one foot on the sea
and one on dry land like the angel of the
apocalypse."
(To be continued.)


