[Column 2]
you have undergone in the fulfillment of
the destiny that our Father has marked
out for His children in this day. Scarce-
ly a home among the Latter-day Saints
but what has had its bread winner taken
from there and sent into the world to
preach the Gospel, and mother has been
left with her little family to make her way
as best she could, providing for their nec-
essities. and aiding her companion in the 
fnlfillment of the obligation that he
was sent to discharge in the world. Our
sympathies sometimes have gone out in
large degree to the Elders in their fields
preaching the Gospel, but the Elders in
fulfillment of their ministry, in great
measure have passed through most pleas-
urable scenes, in the changing sights, in
the variety of circumstances that have
surrounded them, and in the considera-
tion they have received; while a stalwart
and true wife at the fireside at home,
offering her prayers in his interest, divid-
ing the results of her handiwork with
him, in seeking to provide him some
clothes and a little means to help him up-
on his way, and in the guardianship of her
offspring, and in the effort to impress up-
on their minds the dignity of the work in
which their father was engaged; the na-
ture of the obligation that rested upon
her, with him in seeing to it that, having
been warned of the re-establishment of
the Gospel it become their sacred duty to
warn their kinspeople, their brothers and
their sisters, and their old-time neighbors
and friends perchance, or to any of our
Father's children to whom the glad tid-
ings of great joy had not yet been carried.
When we remember these conditions,
and go into these homes, and when we
meet with you and mingle with you upon
occasions of this character, and remem-
ber the nature of the work that has fallen
to your lot, it may be well said of you, as
it has been said by many a husband
speaking of his wife, or speaking of his
neighbor's wife, or speaking of the friends
and sisters of a district in which he lived,
there are none better; there are none
nobler; there are none truer, molded in
the likeness and image of Mother Eve,
than the homes over which these wives
have presided, whose hearts were given
to their Maker, who have been devoted to
the accomplishment of the divine pur-
poses, the uplifting of their own children
and implanting within them laudable and
proper ambitions and caring in the midst 
of these efforts for those unfortunate ones
that are found in every community, who
need the sisterly and motherly care of
some devoted friend in the midst of their
distresses. 
	Standing before over three thousand
people in the city of El Paso last fall, it
was my privivilege to speak to that body
of people, coming from every part of the
country, and my brethren, some of them;
and upon that occasion I remarked to
those people that no more heroic people
ever breathed the breath of life than the
wives and mothers of the Latter-day
Saints; true in every place; earnest, de-
voted, unyielding, fixed in the establish-
ment of their faith; they had stood by
their homes and protected and preserved
them while their helpmates were away in
the world declaring the principles of the
Gospel, seeking to extend that truth
which was dear to them all.
	I believe this is absolutely true. While
I would not flatter you, or be guilty of

[Column 3]
offering you flattering words, I believe
these are the words of truth; that when
the history of this world shall be written
and the history of mankind shall be put
upon the sacred page upon which the fu-
ture races may look, that the efforts that
have been made in the interests of the
extension of the principles of this latter-
day Gospel, showing the position occu-
pied by our ladies, will be one of the
brightest and best upon the sacred pages
of history. How few, when we think of
it, wben we think of the conditions that
have surrounded them, have failed in the 
fulfillment of that mission! I need not go
away to any other home than to my own
home to bring up in pleasing remem-
brance the conditions of the past, for in
our home we were orphans, so far as
fathers were concerned,, in large degree,
the father ever absent, ever the public
servant, ever in the discharge of a pub-
lic duty: but around the fireside of those
homes were mothers, brave, true, heroic
no mark of infamy has ever attached to
one of their sacred names; but in the
fulfillment of the part that they had ac-
cepted, ministering in the interest and
well-being of the households to which
they belonged, they have remained in
the fulfillment, true and devoted in the
enjoyment of the duties that were im-
posed upon them. And while I speak
thus of my own home and its experienc-
es, as I look around upon the experiences
of others, and know the positions in which
the families of so many were placed, the
trying circumstances that surrounded
them, the efforts so noble and so true
that were made to aid their fellows, to
share their scanty meals, to share their
scanty clothes, to share the light amount
of fuel that was brought into the home,
to help that home so that there should be
no suffering, and that none should receive
hurt, but that all should be blessed and
 comforted, and that these meagre sup-
plies should be eked out to accomplish
the best possible results to all concerned.
How good the Master has been to us!
How good he has been to these heroic
women, these mothers. In the midst of
their trying situations and limited supplies
they made the best efforts possible that
their children should be men and wom-
en of the better mold, loving their
country, but above all loving their God,
and the propositions involved in the
sacred message that He had entrusted to
His servant in the day and age in which
we live. True to husbands? Yes. True
to wives? Yes. True to children? Yes.
True to the unfortunate and feeble? Yes.
True to those men that have been sel-
ected, and the women also who have
been selected to administer in the dis-
charge of the obligations of counselors
and advisers. True to the ones who are
upon the picket lines of the world, de-
claring the message of glad tidings to the
children of men. True to every element
of right, earnest, devoted, brave, heroic,
the mission that they have performed
will stand written in the Lamb's Book of
Life, as a witness to God that His sons
 and His daughters who received this mes-
sage of glad tidings from our father and
from His holy Son, through the adminis-
trations of His prophet, were not select-
ed unwisely, unwittingly, but they were
selected for their merit, for their heroic
courage, for their devotion, and love of
everything that was good and pure.


My sisters, I commend you for your
past labors, and trust that the decliaing
days of your life shall be the best of your
experience; that your voice for the future
shall be heard in the way of admonition,
and in the effort to perform and establish
in the souls of the younger generation
around the same heroic courage, the same
fixedness of purpose, the same determin-
ation that there shall be no failure so far
as your descendants are concerned. No
prouder thought can well up in the heart,
I am satisfied, of father and mother, than
the fact that my son and my daughter
has been a witness for this truth, that
was sacred to me in my boyhood and my
girlhood, and sent me from Scandinavia
or from Germany, or from Italy, or from
France, or that sent me from England or
Ireland, or Wales or Scotland, or that
gathered me from the islands of the sea,
from the native races of those lands, and
beneath the fostering care of that estab-
lished organization that our Father sent
into the world to regenerate mankind,
that my children may be made witnesees
for that truth and be as heroic in the
offerings they may make in its interests
a[-] was the girl who left father and
mother to gather to this mountain home,
that she might become indeed the savior
of her race, or that boy who, abandoning
the fireside and the circle in which he
moved, should be placed in the position
in future time that his race should through
him receive the administration of the or-
dinance of God's house, and the doorway
be opened to them, that by and by when
the names were counted up they would be
found among them, he having laid the
foundation stones upon which his race
were compelled to build.
	My sisters and my brothers, words of
mine cannot give to you the feelings that
exist in my heart as I stand before you
today.	I have nothing but blessings for
the mother's of Israel, for the women
whose hearts are big enough and broad
enough not only to feed her own little
family circle, but so full of good and just-
ice and right that she is willing and ready
to utilize that which comes to her for the
comfort and well-being of some less for-
tunate being.	May the spirit of this work
ever remain with you; may the heroic
principles involved in it guide your lives.
May your children and your children's
children, as they come and go, call you
blessed.	I speak of you as the best and
noblest that can be found in the world,
and I hope that your children will stand
before the peoples of the world in the
future, as I feel that I can stand before
the people of the world today, and say
"The best man I ever knew was my
own father; the best women I ever knew
were my father's own wives."		I lived
with all of them, for I was a waif in
their midst.	God knows that they were
genuine women of worth, fulfilling their
missions, undergoing their trials and car-
rying their responsibilities with heroic
courage.	And while I speak thus of them
I would have your sons and your daugh-
ters speak of you as father and mothers
with the same feeling and the same senti-
ment that exists in my own breast in re-
gard to their record, for I would have the
sons and daughters of Zion recognize the
pure spirit of that heroic body of women
whose hearts given to God, stood by the
home, and held the home sacred, while
their associates, their partners in life,

