[Column 2]
have heard the good instructions that had
been given; was thankful for the en-
couragement received, and felt like con-
tinuing on in the work; reported the
Third Ward of Ogden as being in a good
condition, and asked the Lord to bless
all.
	At this time President Joseph F. Smith,
Apostle John Henry Smith, Brother C.
C. Richards, Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith,
Josephine R. West, Emily S. Richards,
Emmeline B. Wells, Edna F. Smith,
Sister Dusenberry and others entered the
building, the audience singing in the
meantime "Our God, we raise to Thee."
	Sister Richards said that we had the
pleasure of having President Joseph F.
Smith and others with us, the party hav-
ing just arrived, and she thought that, al-
though it was nearly noon, the people
would be glad to hear a few words from
President Smith.
	President Smith's remarks will appear
in the July number.
	Sister Richards: This is Sister Bath-
sheba Smith, President over the Relief
Society in all the world and as I thought
there might be some one of you who
could not be here this afternoon, I wish
her to say a few words.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith: "She knew
very well that I wouldn't speak very long;
I am not in the habit of it. But I greet
you with a happy greeting, and I am real
pleased to meet with you. I know you
are good and faithful and true. Sister
Richards has watched over you so long
that I know you are good, and I feel to
bless you, and to ask the Lord to bless
you, and give you wisdom, knowledge
and understanding, and give you faith in
the Gospel and in each other, and may
you be united in all the things you under-
take to do, and the Lord will bless you
and prosper you in your labors, and give
you faith for the sick and the afflicted and
give you means for the poor and the
needy, that you may fill up your days in
righteousness and in doing good--all these
presidents and their assistants in the Re-
lief Society in this stake. I pray the Lord
to bless you, and give you great wisdom,
and knowledge to carry on your work in
an acceptable manner before the Lord.
May every blessing which your hearts de-
sire in righteousness be yours. I ask it
in the name of Jesus. Amen."
	Singing: "Guide Us, O Thou Great
Jehovah." Benediction by Brother Robert
Gale. Recess was then taken until the
afternoon.
	At 1:40 o'clock p. m. the conference
reconvened, President Jane S. Richards
presiding.
	Singing, "High on the moantain tops."
	Prayer.
	Singing, "Come, O Thou King of
kings."
	Sister Richards: My dear sisters, I am
very glad to think that we have those
with us this afternoon to speak to you
that we have: President Smith and John
Henry and some others, and Sister Smith,
Sister Wells and Sister Dusenberry. We
don't have them every time, and I hope
that the congregation will keep as kind of
quiet as you can in your crowded condi-
tion. I am kind of sorry that there isn't
a little bit more room, seeing there are so
many of us, and the babies are so good
that I believe they will all go to sleep,
and I don't believe they will cry--I am
not going to think so, anyhow--and I

[Column 3]
think we will have a nice afternoon. We
will now hear from Sister Dusenberry.
	Sister Dusenberry:--I feel a little bit
out of place, because I know that you
have assembled to hear President Smith,
and Apostle John Henry Smith and our
Aunt Bathsheba and Sister Wells, and I
feel that they have so many more years
of experience than I have, and that
they can instruct you, and say so many
better things than I can say, that it
is almost too bad to take up your time.
However, I shall not speak but just a
few moments. I want to congratulate
you this afternoon on the beautiful hall
you have, and as I sat here a few moments
this morning I thought to myself, how
many opportunities we sisters have. and
the brothers also, but especially the sis-
ters, and especially those who are partic-
ularly interested in the Relief Society. I
remember just a little while ago there
was a lady, one of the sisters, came to
me, and she said, "I have been called
out so many times," she said, "I am al-
most worn out. I have been sitting up
with an old lady who has been very ill
for some time," and she had been up
with her for some time, and the lady had
just passed away, and there was a great
many things to do; and she said, "I am
so tired," and I said, "Yes, you are; but,"
I said, "you must also realize that you
have just passed through one of the op-
portunities of your life, because, no mat-
ter what you did for that sister--no mat-
ter how kind you were to her--no matter
how many hours you might have sacri-
ficed of your time for her, you were de-
veloping at the time that you were doing
it, and she was doing far more for you
than you could ever hope to do for her."
As I look in the faces of the Relief Soci-
ety sisters I can always see that certain
humility, that cetain sisterly love, that
always makes me feel good; and I can
always see that each sister was dictated
constantly by her conscience, and con-
science is nothing more nor less than the
Sprit of the Lord prompting us at all
times to do the right thing.
	It was only just this morning that I
picked up a little paper, and in this paper
there was a little story of a father who
had had some dispute over some land,
and the other man who claimed the land
had planted it in vegetables and things,
and the man said, "Well, if I can't get
the land, I am going to have that that
grows on it." So when the harvest was
ready, he took his boy there, and he said,
"I will climb the fence and look all
around," and he said, "If I don't see any-
one looking, you come in, and we will
take what is in the garden." The father
got in there, and he looked in front of
him, and to the right of him and to the
left of him, and all around, and he turned
to the boy and he says, "There is no one
looking. And the boy looked to his 
father, and he said. "Father, you have 
forgotten to look up." It was the con-
science of the boy that was speaking; it
was the Spirit of the Lord that was
speaking to the boy, and I thought to
myself, "Therein lies an example for us
all." No matter what little wrong thing
we attempt to do, if we can always keep
in our minds and in our hearts the spirit
of looking up, always looking up. I am
sure if we can follow this we will always
be on the right track.
	As I end, there is a little quotation


