[Column 1]	
		R. S. REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of 35th conference of the Re-
lief Society of Uintah Stake of Zion, held
at Naples Ward, May 30, 1905. Presi-
dent Sarah M. Colton presiding.
	Sister Emma Woodruff spoke of the
labors of teachers in the Relief Society
and the responsibilities that rest upon
them; also of evil speaking one toward
the other, and of honoring the Priesthood.
She referred to the young, especially the
young men that are sent on missions,
that they should be taught to trust in the
Lord, and urged the parents not to neg-
lect their children in sending them to
Sunday School, Religion Class and Prim-
ary, and in teaching them to pay their
tithes and offerings and to observe the
Sabbath day.
	Sister Hattie Harker felt thankful in
having such a beautiful place to meet in.
Spoke of the duties of the sisters in con-
nection with the brethren. Referred to
the example of the Savior, thought we
should guard the morals of our young
people and be guarded against all evil
surroundings; gave instructions to the
secretaries in their duties.
	The choir sang. Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m. Benediction by Patriarch
Nelson Merkley.
	Afternoon session. President Sarah
M. Colton presiding.
	An essay on "Neglect of Duty" by May
Bartlett, was given. Sister Mary J. Har-
der reported Glines Ward and Sister
America Orser, Jensen Ward, both these
wards are doing good work. Mountain
Dell ward not reported.
	President Bennion, Sister Annie K.
Bartlett, Sister Hattie Harker, Sister
Emma Woodruff, all spoke words of en-
couragement to all present. President
Colton made a few closing remarks and
thanked all for the services they had ren-
dered.
	The next conference will be held at
Jensen. Singing. Conference adjourned
for three months. Benediction by Coun-
selor R. S. Collett.
	PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec'y.
		LIBERTY STAXE.
	The semi-annual conference of the
Relief Society of the Liberty Stake of
Zion convened June 8, 1905. In the Sec-
ond Ward meeting house, President An-
nie S. Musser presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing "We thank
thee, O God, for a prophet." Prayer by
Sister Mary Mair, followed by a solo by

