[Column 2]
were declaring this message of glad tid-
ings to the world, sending forth that mes-
sage, that the Gospel should be preached
in every land, in every clime, to every
nation, to every kindred, to every tongue,
to every people.
	When we shall see the results of these
ministrations, as husbands and wives,
with our children encircling us, shall the
husband say "This was my work;" or
shall the wife say "This was my work;"
or will we say with each other, "This
was our work; hand in hand in the midst
of tribulation we met the obligations
which God placed upon our shoulders,
and we have fulfilled our part?" and side
by side in the eternities I trust that we
will be true and faithful and just to each
other.
	That the Lord may bless you, Sister
Richards, bless you good sisters who are
ministering in this work, bless the grand
old lady who stands at the head of this
work, in connection with her associates,
who are ministering to the accomplish-
ment of the same great purpose; and
bless all the Saints, the daughters, the
fathers and the mothers that have had
part in the accomplishment of this work,
that their names may be indeed regis-
tered in the Lamb's Book of Life, and
when the book shall be opened it shall
there be enumerated "This man fulfilled
his destiny," and this woman registered
her name in the Lamb's Book of Life,
having fulfilled her part to the best of
her ability; this boy and this girl were
their devoted children, true to them in
the midst of their trials and tribulations,
and in their old age honored and blessed
them for their ministrations." That Jus-
tice and peace and love may abound
among you, and that joy may ever be
yours, and that your names may be in-
deed registered in that Lamb's Book of
Life is my prayer, in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith then ad-
dressed the conference as follows: My
dear brothers and sisters—I have enjoyed
myself very much at this meeting. I
liked very much what the brethren said,
and I do not expect to say very much to
you, or speak very loud, I don't think I
can make half of you hear. I have not
practiced speaking half as much as I
have doing the work, and John Henry
has been telling you about what we used
to do. I have been a good worker, but
I have never practiced speaking very
much, and I haven't got a voice to reach
you all, I am afraid.
	I don't know where to begin, hardly,
but I believe I will begin with John
Henry's father coming and visiting us as
a missionary in Virginia, and I believed
his testimony; I believed what he said
about Joseph the Prophet, his cous-
in, and I have never changed my mind
in, and I have never changed my mind
yet; and it has been strengthened many
times in various ways. I know that Jo-
seph was a true prophet, and I knew it
before I ever saw him. The Lord made
manifest unto me that I knew he was a
true prophet, and that the Book of Mor-
mon was true, and that the Lord had
through Joseph Smith restored the Gos-
pel in its purity, and that has helped me
all my days. John Henry was talking
about sitting around the fireside. Some-
times we didn't have very much fire, but
a little ashes, perhaps. But I knew the
Gospel was true, and I knew that my

[Column 3]
husband was a true servant of the Lord;
and when he has been on missions. or
whatever he had to do, it was all right if
I could save a little something for him to
eat when he returned home, why that
was my pleasure, and my children the
same way, and some of the time would
have plenty, but I never had more than
I have now. I have plenty to eat, and
friends and home, and I am happy in my
labors, but I like to work in the temple
—that seems to be my work. I had my
endowments when the Prophet Joseph
was alive, because I was George A.
Smith's wife. and he was one of the
twelve apostles; and there was just the
Presidency of the Church and the twelve
apostles, the presiding bishops and a few
that received their endowments while
the Prophet Joseph was living, or else we
wouldn't know anything about it, or
what the temples were for. I was in the
Nauvoo temple from the first day to the
last, nearly every day, as long as we
worked there; and I have been in the
Endowment House about seventeen
years, working, and other places; the
Manti and Logan temples I have worked
in. and now I have been in the Salt Lake
temple twelve years—I have scarcely
missed a day. I can say that today I ran
away from my work, but it is baptism
day, and I could arrange that pretty well
so that the record will show all right.
But I love the temple work, I love the
work for the dead.
	Brother William Taylor was talking to
me a little while ago about Joseph the
Prophet being with his father, hiding up,
just out of Nauvoo; and he said that they
would have breakfast, go out into the
woods, where they would stay almost all
day; and while they were out there one
day, he had a revelation on baptism for
the dead, and the work in the temple,
and when he was telling it to me he said,
"I feel it now—that, sacred, holy spirit."
And I would urge you sisters to work in
the temple as much as you can for your
dead, and I am sure you will never be
sorry for it. Never mind about riches
and dress and the grand things of the
earth, but try your best to do for your
dead. Teach your children to love the
Gospel—your sons and your daughters—
so that they can have a testimony for
themselves; every sould that is honest
in heart may receive a testimony that
they cannot deny.
	I was just reading yesterday some of
the teachings of the Prophet Joseph to
the Relief Society, and to the presi-
dent and counselors, what they had to
say to the sick and poor, and about them,
and those that were wayward. It was
not only to preach to them and provide
for their wants, but they must know for
themselves that Mormonism was true and
love it.
	I had the good fortune to be at the or-
ganization of the Relief Society. There
was only eighteen present, and I have
the records which Sister Eliza Snow kept
of those meetings; and they are all gone
but myself—every name that is there is
gone; and I don't know what I am left
for, but some good, I believe. At any
rate, I pray God for health and strength
to help my sisters, and encourage them
to go on and perform their labors as the
Prophet talked to us, to save our souls,
and looking up the poor and the needy,
and fill up our days in usefulness, and not


be afraid that we are doing more than our
share of anything, as the Prophet Joseph
said was the way to do. I am anxious to
do my part, and a good share—good part
—so that no one can say, "You are in-
different, and I have to work and wait on
you." I don't think that will be said about
me. At any rate I hope it won't, for it
won't be true.
	Now I know I am not interesting you
here, and I don't want to take up the
time, because the President and some
of the sisters want to talk to you, or we
want them to, and the time is rather
precious. As soon as it is past, we will
break up and go away; but bear this in
mind: that our religion is true, and our
leaders are true, and be true to them, for
what is so nice as union and love? In
this way I started in the society—union
and love. You never need be afraid you
are doing more than your part, but do all
you can, and receive the blessings of the
Lord for your diligence and faithfulness,
and He will reward you.
	Now I think I have said plenty, and I
know you can't hear—the children make
a little noise. I pray the Lord to bless
you all, and make you glad you have
been here today, and fill your heart with
joy and love continually, with patience
and endurance, to love the sick and the
afflicted, the cast down and distressed,
and at last bring you safe in the celestial
kingdom, is my prayer, in the name of
Jesus. Amen.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells then ad-
dressed the conference.
(To be continued.)


