LECTURE 1. 
1. - Visiting the Sick.

Deeds of kindness, done in love, 
Diamonds are in settings rare;
In the realms of bliss above, 
These the gems the blessed wear. 

(a) Effect of cheerful company in the 
sick room. (b) Suitable offerings; re-
freshments; flowers, etc. 
No. 2—Assisting the Poor. 
"It is more blessed to give than to receive"
"Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor 
he also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard;"
Prov. 21. 13.

(a) Providing labor. (b) Providing social 
pleasures for the poor, the widows and
orphans.

No. 3.—Reverence for the Aged. 
(a) Supplying their needs. (b) Light-
ening their labors. (c) Cheering their 
lives. 
"It is the secret sympathy, the silver link, the 
silken tie, which heart to heart and mind to mind, 
in body and in soul combined." 
No. 4.—Proper Care of the Dead. 
(a) Clothing. (b) Washing and dress-
ing body. (c) Properly laying away. 
No. 5.—Encouraging the Downcast. 
"Words of love from hearts sincere, 
In this world of care and woe, 
Are like springs in deserts drear. 
Giving life where'er they flow." 
(a) Showing the goodness of God. (b) 
Teach that "Hope is the gem of exist-
ence." 
No. 6—Intellectual Moral and Religious 
Culture of Women.
"We are saved no faster than we gain knowl-
edge, for knowledge is power." 
LECTURE II.
Marriages and its Advantages. 
"Domestic happiness, thou only bliss, 
Of Paradise that hath survived the fall." 
Ref. Gen. I: 27; Doc, and Cov. Sec. 
49: 15,16; Gen. 2; 18; I Cor. 11: 11, 
"Oh grant my prayers and let me go 
Thy toils to share, thy path to smooth, 
Is there a want, a wish, a woe 
Which wedded love can fail to soothe?"


(a) Choice of a companion.

	"If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God,
that giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not and it shall be given him.-- Jas 1:5. 

"Love rules the court, the camp, the grove, 
And man below and saints above,
	For love is heaven and heaven is love."

	(b) Qualities a man should look for in a 
woman. "A prudent wife is from the 
Lord." Faith in God, religious nature,
love of children, industrious, virtuous,
economical and cleanly. (c) Qualities a 
woman should look for in a man. One 
who does not use liquor or tobacco in any
form. Industrious, truthful, moral, self-
reliant, kind disposition, unselfish and re-
ligious. (d) Superiority of Temple over
civil marriages. Ref. Doc. and Cov.,
Sec. 132: 15-22; Mark 10: 9.

