MOTHER'S WORK. 
PAROWAN STAKE. 
Our Home. 
Lesson I. (a) The foundation of the 
Home. (b) Training and education of 
the boy and girl by the parents, prepara-
tory for further home building. (c)
Choice of companions and associations 
before marriage. (d) Marriage. (e) 
Marriage a divine law. (f) The right 
place to marry. 
Lesson II. (a) Unity and love in the 
home. (b) Reverence in the home. (c)
Confidence between husband and wife. 
Lesson III. (a) Order and system in 
the home. (b) Economy of time and 
means in the home. (c) Cleanliness and 
care of personal appearance in the home. 
Lesson IV. (a) Beautifying the home 
inside and out. (b) Adornment of dining 
room and table. (c) Acquire a taste and 
habit of making that which we possess in-
to useful ornamentation for the home. 
Suggestions from members how this 
can best be done. 
Lesson V. Inmates of the home. (a) 
Family organizaiton. (b) The father, his 
authority, position and rights. (c) The 
mother, her authority, position and
rights.

Lesson VI. (a) Forgiveness in the 
home. (b) Charity for each other's im-
perfections. (c) Self control.

Lesson VII. (a) Self denial. (b) Grief, 
consolation and hope. (c) Cheerfulness 
and kindness. 
Lesson VIII. (Hospitality. (c) Social 
duties. (c) Domestic amusements. 
Lesson IX. (a) Care and respect for 
the aged. (b) Sickness an opportunity 
for training children to love and useful-
ness. (c) Gratitude and appreciation. 
Lesson X. (a) Domestic manners.
(b) Provide our children with amuse-


ments. (b) Enjoy the society of your 
children as time passes. (d) Parents 
should share their children's amusements.
(e) Extend sympathy in childish troubles.)

Lesson XI. (a) Evils of backbiting to 
ourselves and our neighbors. (b) Bring 
wayward children to our homes and en-
courage them. (c) Parents in making 
promises to children should make their 
word as good as their bond.

Lesson XII. (a) Family devotion. (b)
Reverence for the Sabbath day by the 
family. (c) Reverence for the Priest-
hood in the family. 

Mamie O. Holleman.


