[Column 1]
comes to my mind, which has helped me
in my life, and I think it will help you,
and it is a little quotation from Shakes-
peare, wherein he says, “Above all, to
thine own self be true; and it must follow
as the night does the day that thou canst
not then be false to any man.”
	I hope and pray that the Lord will
bless you all, that you may work togeth-
er in harmony, and support your leader,
and the leaders of the Church, and Aunt
Bathsheba—for she needs your support
and your prayers constantly. She prays
for you, she is constantly thinking and
working for you, and I think you are doing
the same for her. May God bless you.
Amen.
	Apostle John Henry Smith: My dear
sisters, I regret that I did not have the
privilege of hearing all of the remarks
that were made this forenoon by the
brethren and sisters who have spoken to
you. It would have given us some ideas
as to the spirit, in a greater degree, at
least, that exists in your meeting in ful-
fillment of the great duties and responsi-
bilities that rest upon you. I scarcely
anticipated this privilege this morning at
half past seven o’clock, but I am pleased
to be here, and was pleased to hear the
remarks that were made by President
Smith this morning, and your president,
and their words of commendation, and in
the remarks that have been made by Sis-
ter Smoot—or Sister Dusenberry, rather,
—in addressing you for a few moments
this afternoon.
	I know of no body of people in this
world to whom greater praise is due than
the ladies who form the Relief Society
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. The membership of that or-
ganization is made up of ladies whose
hearts have been given to the service of
the Master. It is true in all parts of the
world that the ladies are the better ele-
ment of society. The churches of the
world would soon be closed if the relig-
ious sentiment and feeling of the ladies
should abate, and they stop going to
church for about three months. But
among our sisters in all the world there
are none whose opportunities have been
so great, as have the opportunities of the
sistership of the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints. I am not here to
say that you are absolutely better than
your sisters among other peoples and
other religious denominations; but I am
here to say that no more heroic body of
women have ever breathed the breath of
life, than the ladies who compose the
membership of this organization that our
Father has established in these latter-
days. When we think of the conditions
that have been attendant upon your lives,
gathering as your have done from many
lands and from many climes, many of you
reared under different circumstances with
peculiar religious training, your accept-
ance of the truth of the latter-day work,
your being brought together from the
ends of the earth and instructed and
molded under the direction of the proph-
ets of this latter-day dispensation, and
the heroism that has been shown in your
lives, in the fulfillment of the duties and
responsibilities that have fallen to your
lot, commends you to every thinking man
and woman who has noted your labors,
and who has noted in any degreee the good
that has been accomplished by the sacri-
fices (if we can call them sacrifices) that

