HANDS Grace Zenor Pratt I still remember the grace of my mother's hands— Slender, well kept and fashioned delicately; I saw them last when they so quiet lay Still, beautifully serene upon her breast, Their work completed. And I now recall With pleasure, how my childish eyes Oft followed her at daily tasks—the quiet way She had of handling silver and old china, too, And flowers most tenderly. I can see her hands More clearly than I can recall her face— They were such lovely hands, so full of grace. Who has not loved the touch of baby hands— Like silken petals on a summer wind, Touching the heart-strings with their light caress; Exquisite hands, so small, so full of tenderness. I have loved old hands, roughened and gnarled— I have felt pathos for their toil-worn drudgery of years; And yet within those calloused palms The dignity of toil speaks clearer to my heart Than majesty of kings... The humble are so blest in many things, Why Go To Relief Society? Clarice G. Sloan (President, Portland Stake Relief Societies) "LIFE is a gift of nature, but beautiful living is a gift of wisdom." (John A. Widtsoe) Such beautifully expressed truths made me reflect a moment in the busy whirl of life to consider whether they were real and vital to me or merely empty words. I am a young mother, striving to keep pace with an adolescent daughter, a growing boy, and a questioning seven-year-old. I love life, beauty and progress. I appreciate aging treasures, yet also yearn for the new, modern things of today. I am seeking for expression and for the abundant life. Yet, in common with all young mothers, I am faced with the obvious problems. I want to make a home for my family to come to, not go from. I want to share my husband's activities in the Church and the business world, to live my religion, and to serve my country. To accomplish these things and yet find time to fulfill my own desires for individual living required careful thought and planning. Study clubs, music guilds, civic associations seemed only part of the answer. Then clearly there came to my realization the knowledge that within my own Church was an organization that combined all these objectives— an international woman's organization, founded by inspiration, designed "to raise human life to its highest level; to elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; to develop faith; to save souls; to study and teach the Gospel." So broad is its scope that I found, as have thousands of other women, that I could satisfy my every desire for development. The monotony of little things need no longer make life seem like a barren desert. Within my reach was an oasis, at which I could quench my spiritual and intellectual thirst. That organization is the Relief Society. That you who do not know it may also drink at its fountains, may I tell you why you should go to Relief Society? A resume of what Relief Society is and what is gained by attending it is the best answer to this question. It is the key to abundant living, a training school to help cope with life's problems, an opportunity for self-expression, service and growth. Here the beauty and dignity of the experience of advancing years mingles with the keen enthusiasms and modern viewpoints of youth. Sharing ideas with these women of varying ages enriches life, broadens viewpoints, increases faith, and enlarges understanding. The organization offers carefully outlined courses of study, including religion, social service, work-and-business (health and nutrition), literature and music. The course in religion is a challenge to mental and spiritual exertion, offering increased knowledge, added testimony, and the privilege of bearing that testimony. Social service trains in the psychology of personal adjustment, aids in harmonious living with our- 690 selves, families, and neighbors. Work-and-business affords instruction in beautifying the home through decorative art, safeguarding health through proper nutrition, aiding the welfare plan, and serving in national emergencies. Literature enables us to live with authors, to savor the seasoned wisdom of the classics, to enrich our lives through biographies. We are encouraged to write prose and poetry, create pageants, and participate actively in all creative fields. Music affords training in conducting, playing the organ and piano, and the proper singing of our hymns and classical music. That it instills in us a deep appreciation of music is best understood when we can truly say that the chorus of our Singing Mothers echoes around the world.