Juvenile Delinquency
Rulon W. Clark (Judge of the Juvenile Court, Salt Lake City, Utah)
WHEN one speaks of "Juvenile Delinquency," we immediately become interested because we are all intensely concerned about the welfare of young people. It is true that we all dislike to think of our children being delinquent, but because of our desire to prevent delinquency and crime and to see the young people develop into good citizens, we give the subject a great deal of attention.
Youth is the hope of our Church, our state and our nation. In him lies the eternal hope of salvation and the promise of a better world. He is full of hope and ambition to climb to new and better heights. And is filled with energy to accomplish big things. It is the proper direction of these divine qualities which gives us the deep concern.
From early morning to late at night the child is constantly DOING THINGS. What he does and how he does it plays an important part in his future life— his habit formations and his attitudes toward people and things.
When we think of "Juvenile Delinquency," some of us are inclined to think of children committing crimes. This is not true. The laws of Utah state, "No adjudication upon the status of any child by the Juvenile Court shall operate to impose any of the civil disabilities ordinarily imposed by a conviction in a criminal case, nor shall any child be deemed a criminal by reason of such adjudication, nor shall such adjudication be deemed a conviction." (14-7-31)
What then is meant by "Juvenile Delinquency?" "Juvenile" is used synonymously with "child," and the statutes of Utah define a child as "a person less than eighteen years of age." Webster's dictionary defines delinquency as failure, omission, or violation of duty; the commission of a fault or crime. From a religious point of view, we may think of delinquency as the commission of sin, and sin as defined by Dr. James E. Talmage in his book, Articles of Faith, Article 2, Lecture 3, is, "Sin is any condition, whether consisting in omission of things required, or in commission of acts forbidden, which tends to prevent or hinder the development of the human soul."
But from a legal point of view, the delinquent child is "a person under eighteen years of age who had violated any state law or any ordinance or regulation of a subdivision of the state; a child who by reason of being wayward or habitually disobedient is uncontrolled by his parents, guardian or custodian; a child who is habitually truant from school or home; a child who so deports himself as to injure or endanger the morals or health of himself or others."
It will be noted that even the statutory definition of delinquency is liberal in its scope, and its aim is to prevent children from becoming criminals. In fact, the legislature in creating Juvenile Courts in Utah said, "The care, custody and discipline of children before said courts shall approximate as nearly as possible that which should be given by
664
their parents; delinquent children shall not be treated as criminals but as misdirected, misguided children needing aid, encouragement and assistance," But even though the Court is granted broad powers in its jurisdiction, it must first be determined that a child has committed such an act within the meaning of the statute as to make of him a delinquent before making such adjudication.
A GREAT many cases are referred to the Juvenile Court during the course of a year, many of which should never be recorded. It requires a great deal of patience, understanding and wisdom in the caring for children, and simply because they make mistakes, have accidents or are careless is no reason why they should be adjudged to be delinquents. For instance, if the boys in the neighborhood are playing ball in the street or vacant lot and a ball is accidentally batted through a window, there is no reason for referring any or all of the boys to the Juvenile Court. It is true that the owner has sustained a loss and should be compensated for the damage, but the matter should be settled without Court action. In fact, the Court can not enforce the settlement for damages. The child has no paying ability, and the parents are not liable for the torts of their children except under certain conditions which make them so closely related to the offense as to become a part of it.
The seriousness of a case does not depend alone upon the seriousness of the offense, but upon the child's attitude toward the offense, upon his outlook for the future, and upon the circumstances surrounding him
 
which will direct his activities toward good citizenship. A sixteen-year-old girl was brought before the Court upon a petition alleging that she was ungovernable in that she had run away from home and refused to return. The police had picked up the girl after she had been away from home a few days and brought her to the Court. Her parents were summoned to appear, and at the hearing the girl admitted that on the specified date she ran away from home without the knowledge or consent of her parents, and that she did not want to go back home. When asked why she left home, she said, "I left home Saturday morning, because my mother tells me to get out every day, and I just couldn't stay home any longer. I went to my girl friend's and asked her to run away with me. We went to the freight yard and got in a freight car and slept all night. The next morning we were turned over to the police. I like my dad and would live with him any time, but I never can live with my mother any more. The only reason I ran away is on account of Mother. She has never treated me like a mother should. She does not whip me, but she tells my older sister to do so, and she beats me. A little while ago she hit me over the head with a milk bottle. We quarrel all the time. My sister lives in the same house with us, and she is on relief. Her husband is in California in prison for robbing a bank. My father buys my clothes as Mother will not give me a thing. She says she wishes I were dead or had never been born. I told her I was going to run away, and she said she wished I would and would never come back."
Investigation of the above noted
JUVENILE DELINQUENCY
case revealed that there were nine in the family living in three rooms in the upstairs of an old frame house. It was extremely hot weather. There was but very little furniture, and it was poorly kept and inadequate. There were no rugs on the floor, no curtains or draperies at the windows, and the bedding was dirty. The house was unkempt and infested with bugs. The girl was attractive looking and full of energy. She had very few clothes or personal belongings and had no privacy, which she greatly resented. The mother had not lived a life that was a worthy example for the child. The child resented all of these conditions; she wanted to live as other girls of her acquaintance lived, to wear respectable clothes, to bring her friends into the home and have them treated cordially, but above all she wanted a mother in whom she could impose confidence and respect.
It is evident that the girl referred to did not need punishment because she ran away from home. She needed treatment to help her adjust herself to a situation where she could live without a constant conflict and feeling of defeat, and where she could grow and develop as a normal child should.
"Children feed on love, as they do on fresh air", writes D'Alve. "The case book of our Juvenile Courts and Children's Clinics are full of instances of children literally starved for affection. What happens in starvation? Among other things, poisons are generated within the organism. This is exactly what happens in the case of children starving for affection. They develop sulkiness, suspicion, meanness, lying, and thievery. When, for some misdemeanor or other, they are brought
665
before the bar of justice, they are ostensibly "bad" children. But most of us who know anything at all about psychological processes, know that they are not bad, in the sense of being wilfully vicious children; they are affectionately undernourished. In most cases, when such children are wisely placed in an environment where they receive a normal amount of affection, the entire life-pattern changes. Sulkiness gives way to cheerful response, lying and thievery to honesty; selfish seclusiveness and downright maliciousness to affectionate cooperation. Love, sentimental though this may sound, is like sunshine; it tends to open up, to unfold the organism. That is why the unloved life in adulthood is so often itself unloving. It builds a shell around itself—of bitterness or suspicion or despair. It shrinks, contracts, withdraws."
WE often hear the question asked, "Is a child delinquent who smokes?" The answer is, "Yes." Not only is it unlawful for a child to use tobacco, but it is unlawful for him to buy, accept or have it in his possession. The law is as follows: 103-40-5 "Any person under the age of twenty-one years who buys, accepts or has in his possession any cigar, cigarette or tobacco in any form, or any opium or any other narcotic in any form, is guilty of a misdemeanor, or shall be deemed a delinquent child, as the case may be." It is also unlawful for any adult to furnish, give or sell tobacco to a minor. The law on this subject is as follows: 93-1-12 "Any person who furnishes to any minor by gift, sale or otherwise any cigarette or cigarette paper or wrapper, or any paper
666
made or prepared for the purpose of making cigarettes, or any tobacco of any kind whatsoever, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $299 or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment."
The same question and answer applies to the use of liquor, including beer. The laws says, "Alcoholic beverages shall not be given, sold or otherwise supplied to any person under the age of twenty-one years," and "It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer to any person under the age of twenty-one years."
As injurious as the use of liquor and tobacco might be on the physical body of the user, it is my opinion that their use has just as harmful, or even more injurious, effect on the user intellectually and morally. The fact that one knows that it is wrong and unlawful to use them and consciously violates the law, creates a conflict within himself that is harmful. It requires him to make a decision whether he will violate the law of health and the law of the state on the one hand or abstain from the unlawful and harmful practice. If he does decide to use them, he then becomes conscious of the fact that he is a law violator and is impairing his health. This creates a disrespect for the law of the state and the law of health. This conflict becomes particularly acute in the minds of members of the Church, since they are taught from their early youth to honor, obey and sustain the law of the land and that the use of tobacco and liquor is in violation of the mind and will of the Lord to his people as revealed
 
through the Prophet Joseph Smith. The words of the Lord continually come to their minds, "I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation, that, inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father. And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill."
The conflict thus created becomes an important part of the life of the child. He is conscious of his wrongdoing and has a feeling of guilt which sets him apart from others whom he feels do not have the same feeling and who are not committing the same offenses. He, therefore, withdraws from these persons and seeks the company of those who are doing the same thing he is. He is also conscious that he cannot participate in the ordinances of the Church nor can he perform his duties in Church organizations, and consequently he stops his Church activity. If he attempts to continue in these activities, he tries to justify himself in his wrongdoing and begins to criticize others who do not do as he does. Particularly is this true of those in authority over him and especially those who talk of the harmful effects or the violation of the principles of Church doctrine in his presence. This creates a feeling of dissatisfaction and resentment, and he is forced sooner or later to withdraw from active participation in Church activities. The extent of withdrawal, of course, depends upon the attitude of the person and his willingness to repent.
JUVENILE DELINQUENCY
PSYCHIATRISTS tell us that a child has a mental life far more delicate and complex than his physical body, far more difficult to keep in order, and much more easily put out of adjustment. Unfortunately, however, many parents who would insist on the best medical advice available when the child manifests symptoms of illness may overlook bad habits and behavior problems which are symptoms of serious personality difficulties. Mental distortions and emotional instability develop gradually. The twists in personality which account for failure and unhappiness are not introduced into the life of the individual suddenly and unexpectedly. These traits spring from dissatisfaction with conditions imposed on children or from behavior patterns arising from conflicts gradually acquired.
The matter of delinquency, then, becomes a matter of proper training and treatment rather than punishment. Mental and emotional conflicts should be guarded against. Feelings of fear and insecurity should be kept from the minds of young people, and in their stead should be implanted optimism, courage and obedience to correct principles. Wholesome activity should be supplied in which the child has plenty of opportunity to experience the joy of right living and of rendering service to others. Parents, teachers, Church leaders and prominent leaders of the community should work unitedly together toward this end; first, by setting the proper examples and second, by furnishing ample opportunity for proper training and experience in worthwhile activities. 667
The Juvenile Court cannot accomplish these ends alone. It requires the cooperation of all agencies and persons in the community working unitedly together for the welfare of youth. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints furnishes a splendid opportunity for its young people to enjoy the privileges and blessings so essential to the development of good character. It is unfortunate, indeed, that all of the Church members do not appreciate the value of it and participate actively in its program. Young people, especially, have the greatest opportunity of any people in the world by reason of their membership in the Church. We, as members of the Church, should encourage our young people to become and remain active in' Church work and take advantage of the rare opportunity afforded them by the splendid Church program.