The Church Grain Elevator Tells Its Story
Dr. Royal L. Garff
MY home is now in Chicago. Ten years ago I left Salt Lake City to pursue a program of study at a great mid-western university. I have a deep love for my home state and its people, and my visits to Utah have been as frequent as possible. Two years had elapsed since my last trip, however, so I made it a point to spend my brief vacation there this summer.
Whenever I go West, there is one friend I never fail to see. He was bishop of my ward when I left on a mission to New Zealand. To help me make ready for this great experience, he taught, encouraged, and inspired me. He kept in touch with me during my college career, seeks me out whenever I come home to visit the folks. He is now associated with the men and women who are the forces in the rapidly expanding Church welfare plan.
I speak of him and me by way of introduction to this story, to show how his friendly interest enabled me to behold a great manifestation of how a Church, guided by inspired leaders, can apply true religious principles to the solution of man's material problems.
As I was conducted through the various projects, I was given a candid-camera picture of the welfare center with its remarkable new Administration Building, canning and sewing facilities, hog farm, poultry project, root cellar (to mention but a few), and the wonderful new grain elevator, with its capacity of 318,000 bushels. I was lifted up with pride over the achievements of my Church.
As I was shown the grain elevator and told the story of its construction, it seemed to me that it symbolized the life of a good man. So real was this analogy that the elevator might have been a growing, living thing. It had become great through the application of definite, inexorable laws —just as you and I can grow fine through obedience to the principles of the Gospel.
Buildings and men are both insecure without good foundations. When it was discovered that the site for the elevator was on an old lake bottom, a forty-foot pile was driven into the ground in search of hardpan. The first and then a second pile of the same length failed to reach such an objective. Finally, an idea was hit upon that would make the elevator like a ship afloat, giving it absolute security against earthquake, the flexibility to withstand any shock, Six hundred twenty-six pilings, forty feet long, were driven into that old lake bottom, covered over with a layer of coarse gravel one foot deep, tied together with steel reinforcing, and finally secured with a three-foot slab of cement atop the entire foundation structure.
Here were intelligence, knowledge, faith, and works—all employed in preparing a sound beginning for the super-structure. In this same way, every faithful Latter-day Saint must drive the pilings of his life into fundamental principles, securing himself against
THE CHURCH GRAIN ELEVATOR TELLS ITS STORY
his weaknesses, fortifying himself against the temptations, the doubts, the trials, that eventually beset every individual. As the piles were bound together with gravel, steel, and concrete, so must the true Latter-day Saint bind the principles of the Gospel to his heart with all the intelligence, knowledge, faith, and works that he possesses. He must also use the same principles in binding himself to every other worthy member of the Church, so that the Church as a whole can maintain a united, unbroken front against the ever-increasing pressures of worldliness.
The foundation established, the next step was the construction of the elevator itself. To do this, a wooden tower was built, extending into the air 240 feet. Its function was to carry the large bucket from which cement was to be poured evenly over the entire building as it grew taller and taller. As the elevator went up, the tower went up, section by section, each section being held steadily in place by strong wire cables. With every addition to the height of the tower, length was added to the cables and anchors laid to tie the tower to the building itself. The same short cables could not secure a growing tower against the increasing onslaughts of the wind and the intensification of the pull of gravity. By the time the height of the tower neared 200 feet, the cables required to hold it solidly in place had to be 500 feet long and moored into the earth at a great distance. The anchors, too, had become heavier, thereby providing increasing strength against instability and shakiness.
The symbolism in the erection of the tower suggests that each member of the Church needs strong and fast
659
anchors in the development of a stable, righteous life, and cables must be lengthened and anchors strengthened as the individual grows into maturity and broadens in experience. When the individual begins life, or first becomes a member of the Church, comparatively short cables and light anchors will be adequate to his spiritual needs; but as responsibilities increase, as new and heavier burdens are shouldered, as one is ordained to the priesthood, called upon a mission, appointed as an officer of the Relief Society, set apart to lead others, marries and rears a family, has more and more opportunities to ennoble his or her nature and shine as a beacon light in guiding others, cables must be lengthened and anchors weighted. As he extends the liberty and the freedom with which judgment is exercised and free agency used, moving in ever larger and wider spheres of action, the Latter-day Saint must multiply the number of laws to which strict obedience is given. The laws are the cables and anchors with which one builds to the mountaintop of Sainthood and Godhood.
One keen thinker has stated it thus: As man increases the number of laws he obeys, he increases in richness of nature, in wealth, in strength, in influence. Nature loves paradoxes, and this is her chief paradox—that he who stoops to wear the yoke of law becomes the child of liberty, while he who will be free from God's law wears a ball and chain through all his years.
When the elevator was completed, the cables were cut, and the tower fell with a frightful crash, dashing itself into ten thousand splinters. The destruction of the cables, and then of the tower itself,
660
reminds one of the lives of such distinguished men as Oliver Cowdery and Sidney Rigdon and a score of others, who were once towers of strength, and who attained great heights of privilege and opportunity; but neglect, inactivity, and sin cut the cables that held them in their precious relationships to man and God. Without their moral and spiritual cables and anchors, these men became the weakest and the most ordinary of mortals, shorn of greatness, groping in darkness, bruising their feet against the sharp rocks that lay along the path of a confused earth life.
The bins which were to hold the grain were built to a height of 116 feet. Job forms about four feet high, of the shape the elevator would eventually take, were made. One hundred eight steel rods, one inch in diameter, around which the concrete was to be poured, were inserted into the forms. The forms were raised, as the walls of the bins increased in height, by jacks which worked from above. The forms had to be raised systematically, continuously, uniformly, and exactly one-fourth of an inch at a time by actual measurement. This tedious operation was necessary to insure the pouring of the concrete in one solid block. If the forms had not been raised correctly, the building would have been misshapen, eventually the forms would have frozen, and the work already done would have been partially or entirely lost.
In each of the three eight-hour shifts, fourteen men were assigned to the manipulation of the jacks. Guiding the work of this group was a captain who gave a signal every fraction of a minute for the turning of the jacks, so that  
forms could be raised upward. Each man in the crew managed eight jacks. They were his sole responsibility. Perfect cooperation and accurate timing were necessary during the entire period of the pouring. If but one man failed in his duty, the job would have been delayed and probably ruined.
THE young engineer, a specialist in the construction of grain elevators, was astonished when he learned that the elevator was to be built with welfare labor. He frankly said that he was certain that it could not be done. His objections, however, were not taken seriously. He was informed of how the Latter-day Saints had learned to build splendid structures like the Temple and Tabernacle long before he was born. He was assured that they were again on the job, determined to build a grain elevator. He said that the kind of labor he would recommend could build this elevator in fifteen days and gave it as his opinion that if the work could be completed in somewhere near this length of time, it would be satisfactory to use welfare labor. He was astonished when the enthusiasm and intelligence of the workers made it possible to complete the project in eight and one-half days.
Here again is a great lesson to be learned. What this diligent, enthusiastic body of men did through the finest kind of cooperation can be done in any line of religious work and spiritual activity in the ward, stake or Church itself. Cooperation in the ward, which is the fundamental organizational unit in the Church set-up, is of the highest importance. The bishop of the ward may be regarded as the coxswain—the captain who calls the signals, gives the instructions, keeps everything moving in harmony. Just as the workmen had to heed the captain on the grain elevator when he shouted his orders, if the jacks were to be turned at the right time and the erection of a sound, useful building made possible, so the Latter-day Saints must learn to heed the counsel of their bishops and inspired leaders. Only in this way can we be exalted and accomplish deeds worthy of our high mission and principles.
The construction of the headhouse, sixty feet above the top of the bins, was the most dangerous of all the work. Men actually took their lives in their hands as they erected the forms into which the concrete was to be poured, and again as they tore them down after the concrete had set. By taking two precautions, life was saved and workmen preserved against danger. Each man was examined to make certain that he was physically capable of undertaking such a task, and those entrusted with this work were securely anchored with cables and ropes so that they could not fall.
This part of the work also affords us a worthwhile thought. Young people, and scholars in our Church in particular, are prone to venture into dangerous speculations that are not in harmony with the revealed principles of their religion. Such adventurers often exceed the power of their faith to keep a firm grip on the cables and ropes of spiritual life. They fall from their hazardous, insecure positions, and suffer spiritual death.
Of all the organizations in the world, our Church is the leading advocate of learning and education. On the basis of population, more of our young people secure advanced training than do the young people of any other church. They are inspired by such Church teachings as, "The glory of God is intelligence", and "No man can be saved in ignorance." In venturing into the fields of higher learning, however, the experience of the men on the grain elevator suggests that these young people and scholars should secure themselves with the cables and ropes of prayer, humility, and constant work in the Church as they take off into the dizzy heights of worldly learning.
THE construction work done, the machinery was installed and the elevator worked perfectly, emphasizing the fact that if we are careful in building a firm foundation, in anchoring our lives to the principles of the Gospel and its abundant activity, we can move forward to perfection, happy in the knowledge that we are following in the footsteps of the Savior of us all.
Our responsibility is illustrated in the experience of President Faunce while he was at Brown University. He was concerned over a wild, reckless boy. One day this youngster was working in the biological laboratory examining a slide containing bacteria. In quick succession, he observed one generation after another of those tiny creatures pass before his eyes. "Suddenly", said Pres-
661
ident Faunce, "the boy stood up and walked around the room, saying to himself, 'I see it now. I am a single link between the generations before me and those who may come after. I WILL NOT BE A ROTTEN LINK IN THAT CHAIN!' "
THE CHURCH GRAIN ELEVATOR TELLS ITS STORY
We all have a heritage. We are building links in the chain of the Church and of our families. We must make certain that these links are sound, virile, worthy to become a part of the splendid heritage that is to be passed on to our children. As each step in the building of the great Church elevator could be taken only by applying fundamental principles of construction, so must each day of our lives be lived in accordance with the wonderful principles of the Gospel. In the words of the Sanskrit, we must—
662
Look to this day! For it is life, the very life of life. In its brief course lie all the verities and realities of our existence: The bliss of growth, The glory of action, The splendor of beauty. For yesterday is already a dream, and tomorrow is only a vision; But today, well lived, makes every yesterday a dream of happiness, And every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day! Such is the salutation of the dawn.