Therefore, the mother who is a housekeeper may Carry on a career outside of the home without undue interference with the management of the house, LESSON DEPARTMENT provided she is willing to pay for trained help. Without her the house may still be a delight to the eyes of all who enter it; its dustlessness, the precision with which everything, important as well as unimportant, is in its prescribed place fairly startles everyone. However, it makes one feel decidedly uncomfortable and out of place, especially if he is not immaculately dressed. The housekeeper cannot accompany her husband on a necessary business trip into the country on Monday morning because it is washday, and the clothes must be on the line by ten o'clock. Therefore, the husband may go alone on such trips, always wishing his wife were with him; later, for the sheer sake of company, he may invite some one else to accompany him. The housekeeper cannot go with son Charles to participate in Parents' Day at school on Friday because it is the regular cleaning day, and the cleaning must be done. If it were just that Charles were disappointed that one day the results would not be so serious, but the real harm is the attitude which Charles develops as a result of feeling that he is not as important to his mother as his friends are to their mothers and that his mother does not love him in the same manner as other mothers love their sons. Now, if perchance some ten years later Charles gets into trouble, his mother will undoubtedly reproach him for not confiding in her; and most likely, it will be almost impossible to make her understand that this lack of confidence began when Charles was a tiny tot who needed her companionship and guidance. But she had been too busy housekeeping to 79 devote time to Charles, other than to teach him habits of cleanliness and orderliness of body and house. Mr. A said that during the ten years he and Mrs. A were saving to build the new house, he constantly pictured himself, filled with pride, walking up to the snowy-white entrance of their colonial-type home, throwing open the door and. Finding his wife ready to. Greet him?both of them thrilled with the thought that this was their own home. Instead, never once during the three years they had been living in the new home has he ever entered the front door unless guests were with him. Mrs. A insists that he always tracks in dust on his shoes, and it ruins the appearance of the elegant carpet. So Mr. A always saunters around to the back door and is always greeted by his wife with the same words, "I am so tired I can hardly stand up. The care of this big house is simply killing me. I do nothing but clean from morning till night, except when I am getting your meals ready." Mr. B said, "Before we moved into our new house we always spent the evening in the living room. I could move the easy chair wherever I wanted it, and sometimes I even went to bed without putting the newspaper in its place. But now we spend all our evenings in the little back room that was intended for my den. Somehow, I felt more at home and at ease in the old house." Mrs. B has the reputation of being the most particular housekeeper in the community; and she does not intend to Jose it, even though it is the source of ninety per cent of the nagging which causes misery to every member of the family. 720 BUT what of the homemaker? Homemaking must represent the cooperative efforts of two mates who are concerned with the physical, mental, moral, religious, and emotional development of the members of the family group. In the ideal home, the social environment would serve as a supplement to the physical environment, so that the total environment would provide for the maximum development of the children. There is no profession more challenging and more stimulating than homemaking. We are all cognizant of the fact that the actual housekeeping duties, which are an important part of homemaking, have been greatly simplified and lessened as a result of the mechanization of the home. But that very change has added great responsibilities to the other phases of homemaking. Is there a day in which parents are not confronted with many problems; such as, discipline, respect for authority, granting of freedom without allowing license, or other problems involving the happiness of family members. For the homemaker, the home is a laboratory for living, and each experience is a new experiment; hence, the utmost knowledge, sympathetic understanding, faith and prayers, are required in order to avoid disastrous explosions and wastage of human potentialities. Homemakers are the planners of family living. The foresight and wisdom with which they plan, the interest, thought, time, and energy which they put into their planning largely determine the quality of the home and the future personalities of the children. The first duty of the homemaker 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940

 is the intelligent choice of a standard of living, to which both mates agree. A careful consideration of Hazel Kyrk's statement in regard to the essential ends to be sought and the interests to be realized by a high standard of living will be of great help. She says that wise uses of time and money are those designed to secure in appropriate amounts? (1) The goods necessary for optimum health and physical vigor and, in the case of children, maximum growth. (2) Facilities for the formal education and training of children and for the continuing education of adults. (3) Means for furthering such specific individual interests as painting, drawing, music, sports, dancing, handicrafts, dramatics, gardening, research, imaginative writing. (4) Means of enhancing beauty of the surroundings, inside and outside the house, and for improving personal appearance. (5) Means of securing social intercourse for the sake of friendliness and affection, or for the sake of mental stimulation and experience. (6) Means for securing fun or amusement?the satisfaction of the play interest. (7) Means of securing new experience, aesthetic or otherwise, in connection with people, places, things and ideas. (8) Means of securing rest and relaxation other than the above. (9) Means of securing order and harmony in the routine of consumptive activities and for reducing the time cost of non-pleasurable activities incident to consumption. (10) Housing and equipment that will provide facilities for the activities and social intercourse that go on in the home, and that will afford opportunity for individual privacy." To maintain such a standard of living would indeed represent a profession for the homemaker, equally as intriguing, stimulating, and challUna Bernard Sait, New. Horizons for the Family, pp. 644-57. LESSON DEPARTMENT lenging as any profession one could enter. Parents who are homemakers rather than housekeepers conscientiously ask themiselves the question: "What does our home do to the people who live in it?" rather than, "How does our house and yard look to the people who see it?" In establishing their standard of living, real homemakers regard the second consideration a supplement to the first. If our home does for people what we wish it to do, we must determine what we think a home is for. Wood gives us a valuable suggestion along this line. He says there are three simple, major purposes of a home: (1) It is a place to provide physical comforts and necessities. (2) Because it is a place where we have to meet, it must provide fun, pleasure and a good time. (3) Because of the naturalness of the life in it, it is the ideal place in which to learn to live well. It should not be looked on as: (1) In institution to be endured. (2) An "eternal bulwark," regardless of whether it makes people happy. (3) A place to perpetuate certain manners, discipline and family traditions." If the home meets the above requirements, the homemaker must be a most ingenious person, ever on the alert to devise ways and means whereby the home may represent a combination of the skill of the housekeeper and the skill of the homemaker. Just one example of such a combination of skills: A mother of three small children discovered that she was nagging her children altogether too much. Their normal play activities, such as cutting pictures James Lee Ellenwood, There's No Place Like Home, p. 50. Ellen-- 721 out of magazines, making scrap books, molding clay, etc., kept the living room?the only place in which the children could play on winter days?always untidy and in a state of confusion. She provided a large square of heavy denim, securely sewed a metal ring to each corner and one on each side. This she placed over the carpet, and the children soon learned to be careful to keep all their play. Equipment on the square. If an emergency arose which called for an immediate transformation of the room from a play room to a tidy living room, the den- ~ im was picked up and hung on a hook in the closet. This practice, she said, saved her not only embarrassing moments but also much wear and tear on her nerves. The children were spared a great deal of nagging and scolding. The test of whether one is a homemaker or a housekeeper is: "What is my home doing to the people who live in it?" If one is irritated to the point of nagging at the sight of a misplaced book or newspaper, it is an indication that one is primarily a housekeeper rather than a homemaker; probably such a one should consult a doctor, because she most likely belongs to the class known as "The Nervous Housewife." Questions and Problems (1) Study each of the factors that constitute Kyrk's standard of living and suggest at least one field of knowledge with which the homemaker must be familiar in order to be able to achieve such a standard. (2) Give two suggestions or practices that will facilitate the realization of each of the ten factors. (3) Have each class member give at least one of her homemaking practices. 722 References Una Bernard Sait, New Horizons for the Family, Chapters 21, 22, 23, 24. James Lee Ellenwood, There's No Place Like Home, Chapters 3 and 4. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940

 "Home For All the Family," J. Bessems, Hygeia, August, 1938. "Home Is Where the Heart Lies," F. Hunt, Better Homes and Gardens, September, 1935.; "Every Home a Laboratory", J. E. Anderson,. Parents Magazine, October, 1932.