In Time of Harvest Beatrice Knowlton Ekman THE light buckboard, drawn by two spirited horses, moved smoothly over the desert road. The clip-clop of their hoofs made a hollow sound like going over a bridge. A brackish stream of clear, sparkling water ran across the road or beneath it at frequent distances. It looked good enough to drink, but Clem said the water was full of mineral and sulphur. He showed Janet how it stained the rocks over which it ran. The hollow sound, he explained, was due to the subterranean nature of the country. "We are probably passing over springs and streams of underground water," he said. They had been married only a few days and were on their way to Clem's ranch, where he and his mother had lived for all of Clem's life—the place where they would make their home. The desert road stretched ahead' to disappear in the distance over the south ridge. Janet had lived in the city all her life, and this, her first view of the desert, gave her a strange impression, deepened the worry in her dark eyes. Sagebrush and greasewood reached to the south and west in endless gray, and close to the road on the east a sparse growth of cedar trees etched the slopes of the hills. Whirlwinds of dust and leaves spiralled beside them. Jack-rabbits with long pointed ears sprang up out of the brush and leaped across the road ahead of them. Blue, April sky and white clouds gave a feeling of quiet. The outlines of the range loomed ahead, and Clem slowed the horses to a walk. "There it is!" he sang out, "there's our place!" Janet felt no elation, only a strange loneliness. The distances of the desert made the bare trees and gray outlines look drab and isolated, but she managed a smile for Clem. How would she fit into this new life? How would she and Clem's mother, in the same house all the time, react? If they wore on each other's nerves, it would be quite tertible. Speaking of his mother, Clem had said, "She's been mother and father to us. When father died he left her with three children under nine years—myself and two sisters. She never gave up for a minute. She's a wonder, Janet, you'll love her." But Janet was not so sure. Her own life had been very easy and free. She had no recollection of her father. He had been dead only a year when her mother remarried. She thought of her mother married to Steve. After all, this ought to be a happier life than she had known with them. She snuggled up to Clem, and he put his arm around her and smiled down into her eyes with a question in his own. They came to the pole fences of the ranch. Soon they would reach the house. It was almost dark and the buildings looked indistinct and ghostly in the shadows. Clem gave her the lines while he opened the big gate that shut in the ranch from the desert. A white fence separated the house and garden from the outer ranch, and soon Clem stopped before the garden gate and lifted Janet down, IN TIME OF HARVEST He held her close. "I want you to love it so," he said wistfully. A slim, graceful woman came out of the shadows. Her face was strong and firm, like Clem's. Janet met her with shy uncertainty. Clem held them both together in his arms, and his voice was husky when he spoke. While he went to feed and water the horses the two women walked along the board path to the house. The place looked large and roomy to Janet. She could see that it spread over a great deal of surface and consisted of a story and one-half. The combined dining and living room had wide, beautifully-curtained windows. A fire burned in the rock fireplace. The table was spread with a clean white cloth, and plates were set for three. The light shone over whitewashed walls and bright rag carpet. "How cozy," Janet murmured. Mrs. Garson showed her up the stairs to her room, carrying a lighted candle and the small valise. She showed the gitl where to hang her clothes and then hurried back down the stairs to finish preparing supper. Janet stood alone in the middle of the room watching the soft darts of light from the candle. White ruffled curtains swayed at the gabled windows, bright rugs covered the clean floor. A large, white bed stood between the windows, and opposite there was a bureau with a large mirror, a chest of drawers, a wash-stand with a china pitcher and bowl. Janet washed her face and hands, powdered her fair skin lightly, rearranged her hair. Slowly she walked down the wide stairs, thinking how wonderful they looked—mother and son standing in front of the gate waiting for her. 669 N the following days, Janet had no time to be lonely. She found that the ranch had plenty of work. When it rained the roads became impassable, and Clem mended harnesses and fixed mangers and sheds. Mrs. Garson, never idle, took the whole responsibility of the housework. She mended and darned, cut and sewed carpet rags, put the house in order; when there came a moment for rest, she had her hands busy with crochet patterns or knitting. Clem had extra help for plowing and planting and for the work on the range. At first Janet rode with Clem across the hills and up into the dark canyons, but as the summer wore on riding became too strenuous. When the men were away in the hills rounding up the cattle, Mrs. Garson did the milking and the chores. Janet rebelled. She thought of her own dainty mother and the leisurely life they had shared. She thought of her own lovely room with its soft blue carpet, its books and pictures. "At least it belonged to me," she thought rebelliously, "and I am never sure that my room here does." Clem's mother, so direct, so efficient, drew down the shades in Janet's room every afternoon and straightened the rugs. She did it very graciously, but Janet resented it. "She treats me like a child. Nothing belongs to me." Janet's thoughts grew dark, but she tried to say nothing that might cause trouble. Clem was gone every morning before Janet waked, and she saw him for only a few minutes at noon. When he came in after dark for supper, tired and soil-stained, his clothes sweaty, she shrank from him. In late summer there came several 670 days of rain. Janet could not go outdoors, and it seemed to her that there was no end to the sweeping up of mud from the floors, no end to the strumming on the roof, the dripping from the windows. One evening as Janet sat by the window looking miserably out at the dark rivulets in the yard, Clem came in with a great armful of wood and dropped it down into the box. His overalls were soaked with rain, his shoes reeked of the stable. He walked slowly over to the window and put his arms around Janet. She sprank up and pushed him away. "Don't touch me," she screamed. Then, at his hurt look, she began to defend herself. "How could you bring me to this place? There is nothing here but hard work. I hate it, I tell you!" He stared at her, uncomprehending, his eyes filled with pain and surprise. He brushed his hair back. "What rights do I have here?" Janet stormed. "This is your mother's home, not mine. I want to go back to Mama. I won't stay here any longer!" Then, without even searching Clem's eyes for an answer, she ran sobbing upstairs. When she had cried herself into hysterics, she began to feel a little frightened and ashamed. She heard the locust boughs tapping against the windows. 'The rain had ceased. There was no sound from downstairs, but presently she saw a light flow out from the big room below and slant across the garden. She heard Clem's step on the stairs. He in came slowly, carrying a tray spread with a steaming, warm supper. Janet looked at his stricken face 

 

 and wondered if he had told his mother about her sudden" outburst of temper and resentment. "It's getting nearly dark," Clem said. He went over to the bureau and lighted a candle. Then he sat down on the bed by Janet and set the tray on her lap. He made no motion to touch her. Janet began to eat, but sobs still welled up in her throat. Finally, with a great effort, Clem cleared this throat. "Janet," he said, "TIl take you home if you want to go. Just wait a little longer until after threshing. I'll take you then." In the long reaches of the night, Janet wondered what it was she wanted. What changes did she really long for? A home of her own, less work, some little luxuries, perhaps. Would these material things make life better? Would she stay on at the ranch even if the changes ' could be brought about? But she wouldn't think of staying. She wouldn't let Clem and his mother persuade her. Not even with kindness could they persuade her. She turned restlessly and drew the covers up around her shoulders. Clem lay very still, his dark head pressed deep into the pillow. She wondered if he had gone to sleep. She had a sudden impulse to say in a very small voice, "Clem, dear... I'm not going away. I can't go away now.... Our child, Clem, I must be with you when the baby comes..." But she said nothing, not a word, in the darkness. After the threshing, she would go away. SEPTEMBER faded into the am- '" ber shadows of October—the time of harvest. One afternoon when the shadows of the grain stacks lay IN TIME OF HARVEST long across the yard, Janet stood leaning against the gold wall of a stack, her eyes half closed, late sun upon her face. Mrs. Garson walked briskly along between the stacks carrying two large buckets of water to the chicken yard.; When she saw Janet, she set the buckets down and came over to the girl. She laid a hand on her shoulder. "Janet, do you feel it, too? I hoped you would in time?" "Feel what?" "The blessed peace of harvest. The comfort and security of grain in stack. Sunlight on the stubble." Janet looked steadily at the older woman. "I don't feel anything," she said, "except tiredness!" Then, inwardly amazed at her own words, she stopped short. Was there something real in the insistent spell of the land, earth holding you close, protecting you; earth singing to you? October days merged into an amber web of time. One moming Janet waked with a start. She stretched luxuriously, then edged herself back into the warm sheets. Yellow leaves drifted past the window. She heard her mother-in-law's quick step in the kitchen below, heard her giving directions to Nora, the girl who had come to help cook for the thneshers. Janet raised herself on her elbow and looked into the mirror. There were dark shadows under her eyes, and the corners of her mouth drooped. Wearily, she dropped back on to the pillow. If only she could just lie and watch the soft October sky and listen to the pigeons strutting 671 on the roof. "I'm tired before I start," she grumbled. After she had washed and combed her hair at the stand, she felt a little better. She would not have to endure much more of this desert life with its toil and inconveniences. As she went down the stairs, though, she was not happy at the thought of leaving Clem. The kitchen was still a little dark with the sun not up, but Mrs. Garson had finished her breakfast. She looked at Janet and smiled. "I didn't wake you. You seemed so tired last night. After you have cooked for threshers as long as I have you will get used to it, and it won't be so hard. Now sit down here and have some milk and cereal. I'll fix you some toast." "I’ll never cook for threshers as you have," Janet thought. But she only said, "Thank you, Mother." Janet sank into the chair and unfolded her napkin. Nora passed through the room carrying a huge dish pan full of potatoes. "Have the threshers come yet?" Janet asked, but even as she spoke the threshing machine crescendoed to a roar, and the day had begun. All morning the three women worked, chopping cabbage for slaw, peeling potatoes, making pie and cake, loading the long extension table with mountains of food. It was a relief to go into the darkened dining room to place dishes of pickles, preserves, and Dutch cheese on the table. The coolness of the room reminded Janet of the bookstore where she had worked when she first met Clem. He came in to get a book, and after she had found it for him, they had talked of books, and he had lingered and 672 browsed about the book shelves seeming reluctant to leave. When he came in for school the next September, he often bought books of her and walked home with her after work. She liked him more and more. Her mother made him feel at home, and Steve was unusually cordial. Clem talked of the ranch and of his mother. "I never could have made college if it hadn't been for her," he said, "she can move mountains. You'll love my mother, Janet." Now she was going to leave them, leave Clem and his mother. Suddenly the voracious roar of the thresher died down into a chasm of silence. The men's laughter grew loud as they came to the house for dinner. At the flowing well they began washing, taking their turns at the basin, scrubbing their faces with the roller towel. Clem sat at the head of his table. Once Janet caught his eyes looking intently at her pale face. When the men had finished the last vestiges of the pie and cake, they filed out to the grape arbor for a short rest before beginning the afternoon session. Clem lingered and put his arms around Janet. "Pretty hard on my pet," he said, "but it comes only once a year. Try to get some rest between now and supper." She heard him speak to his mother, and then the back door banged shut. She began to clear the table, but Mrs. Garson came in and took the stack of plates out of her arms. "You go upstairs, Janet, and rest a while. You need to lie down each afternoon nowadays. Nora and I can wash the dishes." But Janet slipped out through  

 side door and crossed the bridge to the stackyard. She watched the men hitch the horses to the sweepstakes around the power. There wete five sweepstakes and two horses each. Clem was down underneath the center power oiling the great cogwheels. When he climbed back to his place, he saw Janet and smiled down at her. Clem stood erect on the platform and called and whistled to the horses, and they began to go round and round the circle, Clem's whip cracking above them. The cylinders hummed and the tumbling-rods and fan-belt set the whole threshing ap-. Paratus into vibration. It took up a roaring crescendo. The pitchers on the tall yellow stacks lifted the bundles of grain, and they fell with rhythmic steadiness on to the board. The bandcutter, with a sharp knife, cut the bands. The feeder caught the bundles from the bandcutter and fed them into the teeth of the cylinder, which tore them apart with a greedy roar. It was fascinating to watch. The bundles rose and fell; the straw and chaff ran up the elevator; the beads of grain poured into the sacks. Wheat—yellow wheat! Staff of life, someone had said. How beautiful it was. How safe and secure it made people. How wonderful that it came from desert fields, pure gold and shining as metal. _ The sun dipped down to the blue hills, and the air turned golden as chaff. Clem called to the horses. Some of the men caught the sweeps, pulling them back, and they slowed down. The last sheaf fell into the mouth of the cylinder, and the voice of the machine died down into the evening. IN TIME OF HARVEST Clem climbed down wearily from the power and walked stiffly to where Janet stood. The sky was a blaze of red and orange and purple. "You are my lucky piece, Janet," he said. "Ever since you came, things have gone well. Rain came and sunshine, and the wheat grew tall and heavy. We have a good crop." She looked up into his tired face. Tears streaked down her cheeks. Her mouth quivered. "Janet," he said, "now I can do for you, get what you want... 673 Around them in the golden twilight, the edge of the stackyard merged dimly into the stubble fields, and the fields merged into the arid distance. These lands wrested from sagebrush and desert were proud lands, a heritage for Clem's children and hers; his mother's heritage, too—undeniably her heritage. Janet lifted her head high. She moved close to Clem and looked up into his face. Thing for you...