All the other Apostles were away on missions. One was in Ohio, two were in Boston, and the rest were scattered throughout the East and Middle West. One and all, however, heard of the death of the Prophet and his brother and hastened home to see what might be done. THE one question uppermost in every mind during these dreadful days was this: Who will lead LESSON DEPARTMENT the Church now? And an important question it was, too. You see, Joseph was a young man when he died?only thirty-eight. For fourten years he had led the Saints through many a strange and difficult scene. They had come to depend on him as children depend on their parents. As Elder John Taylor said once, after the tragedy in Carthage, "In the midst of difficulties he was always the first in motion; in critical positions his counsel was always sought. As our prophet he approached our God, and obtained His will. But now our leader was gone, and amid the fiery ordeal that we then had to pass through, we were left alone without his aid. He had spoken for the last time on earth." As always on such occasions there ' were ambitious men who sought to confuse the thought of the Saints. Sidney Rigdon, who had been the first counselor in the First Presidency of the Church, came all the way from Pennsylvania, where he had gone to live, to propose that he be made "guardian" of the organization. But the people did not want a "guardian," least of all did the Apostles. Besides, Sidney Rigdon had not been in the favor of President Smith for some time. Then there were others, less well known. They, too, would lead the Church. A lawyer by the name of James J. Strang, of Michigan, tried to make the Saints believe that the Prophet had given him authority to take the reins of power in the Church. There were a few others, of even lesser importance, who rose up with their claims to leadership. One and all of these, however, disappeared gradually from sight into darkness and the night, as President Brigham Young said they 723 would. The men were cut off from the Church for their evil purposes, some of them for their transgressions, and the Church went on without them. Still the question remained: Who was to take Joseph's place? ON the return of the Apostles to Nauvoo a great meeting was held in the grove. All the Apostles were there, except John 'Taylor, whose wounds confined him to his bed. So, too, was Amasa M. Lyman, whom Joseph had chosen to be his counselor instead of Sidney Rigdon, though he had not yet been sustained by the people, nor ordained. One of the persons at this meeting was a woman, with a baby and a daughter of eight. They were sitting together on one of the rear seats. The baby was playing with a tin cup, which it let fall on the ground. Both the mother and the little girl stooped to pick it up, to restore it to the baby. All of a sudden the two stopped to listen intently, their heads together not yet raised. Joseph Smith, they believed, was speaking, and Joseph Smith was dead. Had he come to life again? They knew that voice, because they had heard it many times in private and in public. They could not be mistaken. They raised' their heads, turned their eyes to the pulpit, and there, sure enough, was the Prophet standing as he had done many times before his death. They were puzzled, this woman and the girl. Before they had stooped to pick up the tin cup, it was Brigham Young who was speaking, and now it was Joseph Smith?voice and appearance and all. It was very strange. Presently, however, the voice and 724 the appearance became those of Brigham Young again. They had witnessed a miracle, so people told them after the meeting. Many others had seen and heard the same thing. The Lord had taken this means, apparently, to let the Saints know whom to look to for guidance. This little girl lived to be one hundred and three years old. With her mother she came to Utah, married a man named Garner, reared a very large family, and died in 1938, not far from Salt Lake City. Many others who were at this meeting testified to the same transformation of Brigham Young on this occasion. THERE are, as you probably know, two groups of men in the Church who are in general authority. They are: first, the First Presidency and second, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. At the time of the tragedy of Carthage the First Presidency of the Church consisted of Joseph Smith, Sidney Rigdon, and William Law. Really, however, neither Rigdon nor Law were counselors, for both of them were in disfavor with Joseph and the Saints. In name, of course, they were still counselors, though it was hardly probable that they would retain these positions very long. As a matter of fact, the Prophet had made a choice of Amasa Lyman as one of his counselors; though, as already stated, he had not been set apart or sustained. At any rate, on the death of the President there would be no counselors in the First Presidency. The Prophet had said as much before his death. "Where I am not, there is no First Presidency." And so, on his death, there was no First Presidency of the Church. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940

 The Quorum of the Twelve Apostles at this time consisted of the following men: Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, Orson Hyde, Parley P. Pratt, William B. Smith, Orson Pratt, John E. Page, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, George A. Smith, Willard Richards, and Lyman Wight. Amasa Lyman had been in the Quorum but had been taken out to be made counselor to the President of the Church. Of this group of men, Brigham Young was president. Speaking of the Twelve Apostles, the revelation (Section 107, verse 24) says, "They form a quorum, equal in authority and power to the three presidents previously mentioned." This cleats up the situation as to who was to take the place of Joseph Smith on his death. The Apostles clearly understood the order of 'the Church in this respect. So the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles became head of the Church, in accordance with the law as expressed in this revelation. They remained its head until another President was chosen three years later, Questions 1. What question came up at the death of the Prophet? Why was it so important? 2. Had any provision been made for a situation like this? If so, what was it? 3. Give the testimony of Sister Garner about what took place at the meeting mentioned? How generally was this miracle witnessed? 4. State the law in the Church as to the authority of the First Presidency of the Church and that of the Quorum of the Twelve. Note: Map printed in July, 1939, issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons. RELIEF SOCIETY BOOKS FOR 1940-41 LITERARY COURSE Order Yours TODAY editions, but only one is necessary to Price $3.00 Regular  price THE SONG OF YEARS The TREE OF LIBERTY by Eliabeth Page. The Book Store is not allowed to sell this book at a cheaper price.  The best known Novels of George Eliot in one book: Adam Bede, Silas Marner, The Mill On The Floss, Romola. This is the recommended book??$1.25- NOW is the time to select your Special Relief Society Price..$1.10 THE SONG OF YEARS By Bess Streeter Aldrich Regular Price..$2.50 We also have copies of Literary Course Books of previous years, for those who wish to complete their libraries.