Notes to THE FIELD Mormon Handicraft THE Mormon Handicraft Shop is now preparing for Christmas. The whole-hearted support of the women of the Church is urged in making this an outstanding season for the Shop. This is your Shop, and your patronage as well as your skill in supplying attractive, well-made articles are essential to its success. It is suggested that those who are planning to make articles for Christmas sales bear in mind gifts which are suitable for Grandfather, Grandmother, Father, Mother and the children. Good-looking handkerchief cases and cases for stockings and lingerie are saleable, but good material and splendid workmanship are required. Breakfast cloths with four twelve-inch napkins, which can be sold for $1.00 to $1.50 per set, as well as linen cloths, forty-five to fifty-four inches square with four fourteen-inch napkins are in demand. Clever tea towels and unusual aprons continue to attract buyers. If you have something out of the ordinary send it in. The Shop would like gifts (not clothing) suitable for boys ranging in age from six to fourteen years. If articles are to move, it is important that they be well made, unusual in design, and very usable. Until further notice, do not send in crochet bed spreads or crochet table cloths. The interest in the Shop and the splendid cooperation of the local organizations are appreciated. Please continue your efforts to have all of your members who possibly can participate and enjoy the benefits of your MORMON HANDICRAFT project. Importance of a Fall Clean-up in Beautification Program THE attention of Relief Society workers is called to the following announcement made by the Church Beautification Committee: "Stake and ward committees should now plan for a fall clean-up of all Church property and encourage ward members to clean up their homes and surroundings. "During the summer months there has been an accumulation of trash, waste and debris in many places. Weeds and other growths should be removed and burned. All the breeding and hibernating places of insects should be destroyed before fall and winter storms come. It will be difficult to make any place beautiful until it has been cleaned up. "While the ultimate aim of the beautification program is more than a general clean-up, the clean-up plays an important part in helping to get our members interested in this work. Periodical clean-up days will assist the committee to get over its message in a way that often brings results when other methods fail. 702 "Will Protect Our Health "There is an important phase of this question that is sometimes overlooked?that is, our health. Clean, sanitary buildings will be a valuable aid to help conserve and protect health. Sickness spells suffering for ourselves and worry, trouble, and extra burdens for our families. Disease is seldom found in clean, well-kept buildings. As a protection for the health of the community, have a thorough clean-up. "This clean-up program might be taken a step farther than just gathering and destroying rubbish and waste. Let's remember old and dilapidated buildings and barns that have out-lived their usefulness, and see what can be done about having them torn down. If there is one that is owned by a worthy person who cannot afford to remove it, make it a project and have volunteer labor do it. It is surprising what can be accomplished with people who have the right attitude and a desire to assist others. "Should Inspire Pride "Another responsibility that is ours as committee members is to see that in every possible way we inspire pride and greater respect for our Church property, and that we secure greater reverence in our houses of worship. A clean, well-kept place will help to attain these aims. "To secure the best result for this fall clean-up, a careful survey should first be made to find out what there is to be done in and around your buildings and grounds. Then, the ward beautification committee, working with the ward bishopric, can plan how best to accomplish the desired results. There are some ward 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940

 members who think there is little to be done. The reason for this is that they see the chapel so often that it takes a survey or a check-up of conditions for them to understand true conditions. "We offer a few suggestions that should be considered in the clean-up program: "Remove Fire Hazards "One of the first things to do is to remove fire hazards. In many of our buildings, scenery is used for entertainments and pageants and is not properly taken care of. If you have a stage, it should be put in order; get rid of anything that cannot be used again. Dust rags soaked in oil, sweeping compounds, etc., should have a special place in order to receive proper care. The furnace room should be thoroughly cleaned and made ready for winter use. Ashes ought to be removed?not alone from the boiler room, but any piles that are back of the Church. Clean out the stokers, remove all clinkers, oil all motors. "Store rooms should be carefully checked. Remove anything that is not useful and put in place only those things that will be of service. In many places there are old books, bulletins, and other papers of little or no value that remain on shelves or in closets for years. They ought to be removed if for no other reason than that they are a fire hazard. Attic and out-of-way storerooms should not be overlooked. "Toilet rooms should be cleaned and disinfected; where repairs are needed, see that they are made. Saniflush will remove stains, and should be used.
