THE WEAVER Della Adams Leitner October weaves her tapestries, She proudly hangs them on the hills, She spreads them on the fields and dales, The woodlands with her art she fills; Blending all colors in her craft From russet shades to sunset hues, Each grove becomes a gallery With all the glory she imbues. Unstinted is the rich display With lavishness on every hand, Here beauty-loving hearts may share The rare creations she has planned. Too soon she folds them all away. But oh, we have the memories To cheer our winter days, because October weaves her tapestries. "I love this place," she said, "I want my child to be born here. Toning Up the E had been watching the slow but steady transformation of the little four-room frame cottage around the corner. It was now just six months since the Carter family had bought the place and moved in. But during this last month the home simply radiated the Carter touch. The new, blue window shutters first caught the eye. No, they were not hinged, just nailed on. A few pieces of 1 by 8 inch native pine, a handful of nails, a saw, hammer, and a little paint did the trick. Narrow sections of white lattice were at each corner of the house, on which Talisman climbing roses were reaching toward the weathered, bluegray, shingle roof. As we came nearer the house, we saw what Mr. Carter had been doing by lantern light the past week. The rickety, wooden platform and four steps at the front entrance had been replaced with a 5 by 8 foot terrace and two wide steps of beautifullycolored flat stones from the near-by ravine. They were set in cement mortar, one part cement to three parts sand, with wide irregular joints. The difference in elevation between the four original steps and the two new ones had been compensated for by raising the ground level about fifteen inches near the house. As a result, the house nestled to the ground and seemed much wider than previously. Mrs. Carter was genuinely pleased to show us inside. What tone! Nothing else seems to so well describe the simple, colorful utility of the interior. The walls of the living room had been neatly papered—she did it herself—with a two-tone plasHome—$37.06 tic wall paper, ivory and buff. The ceiling was painted white with a cold water casein base paint. A rosyhued light filtered through the peachcolored silk net curtains at the windows. Braided rag rugs spotted the waxed floor. Under each of the two west windows was a homemade open bookcase about 27 inches high by 45-inches wide, made entirely of 1 by 8 native knotty pine, just nailed together. Three small, white flower-pots of salmon-colored geraniums arranged with military precision on top of the book shelves repeated the note of color. On the east wall, near the entrance, was a built-in closet of well-seasoned tongue and grooved knotty pine. Bookcases and closet woodwork were finished with a single coat of white shellac, which brought out in pleasing contrast the reddish-brown knots against the soft yellowish grain of the surrounding wood. So simple, so effective, so inexpensive. _ Then she opened the closet door. I've never seen so much room in so little space. A deep, eighteen-inch shelf for hat boxes was above the half-inch pipe clothes rod. A twelveinch shelf near the floor, under the coats, held a saxophone and a pile of reference magazines. But the most unique part of the closet was the use of the inside of the door. Eight ordinary spring-type wooden clothes-pegs, previously dipped in Chinese-red enamel, were fastened to the door, one flat-head screw in each. Two hats, a scarf, and a pair of gloves were snapped in place, with four spares waiting for visitors' hats.