PETITION Gertrude Perry Stanton There is so much that I would ask of Thee, My Father, when the evening shadows fall— So many dear. Ones to remember, all Of whom I plead for long and tenderly. So much forgiveness for my unbelief, So many duties I have failed to see; The oft-neglected opportunity, Sufferers for whom I pray for swift relief. I should lose faith, and by despair be driven As blindly down my path I seem to grope, Were it not for that blessed word of hope Within Thy word—'"Ask, and it shall be given!" _So in Thy strength I journey day by day, And when night comes, I still may dare to pray, The Sunny Side of the Hill Lella Marler Hoggan No. 5 A Little Shelf of Books Dora Marler Williams: "There is no greater magic in the world than the printed book. Few of us realize how much the course and pattern of our lives are shaped by books." Gove Hambidge. IN primitive times the home served as a shelter from stress and storms and as a safeguard against wild animals and intruders generally. Most of a person's time and energy were required to provide himself and his dependents with the bare necessities of life, and little time was left for the pursuit of occupations that would lead to culture and progress. With the passing of the years, however, man's ingenious effort has brought to the world comforts and blessings far beyond the imagination of those living in that earlier period. Among the many discoveries and inventions that have revolutionized the world, one of the most important and far-reaching is the invention of Time To Live, by Gove Hambidge. Used by permission of the publishers, McGraw Hill Book Co., New York. Printing. Today books are considered one of the essentials of progressive living. Whether the home be a palatial mansion or an unpretentious little cottage, few possessions can come into it that will bring as much joy as a little shelf of books. Such a shelf of books is an "'open sesame" to life. It is not something that can be purchased outright in the market place, as one might buy a piece of furniture. Like truth and beauty and friendship, it doesn't come to its possessor all at once. It grows with the years. From year to year, as our horizon enlarges, we come to a fuller realization of truth, and we gather into our magic shelf the precious expressions of our philosophy of life. We seldom find these treasured volumes in uniform size and binding, all set in 696 a straight row. No, they often display a somewhat motley appearance. Leaning against a substantial book of profound wisdom may be found the tenderest, whimsical love story. And nestled close beside it, one may see chubby little books of philosophy or tales of laughter; while near at hand is a slender volume of silver, singing poetry. Out of the wisdom of the years they come—souvenirs of anniversaties, tokens of remembrance, priceless hallowed volumes; just a little world of truth and beauty, of love and laughter, of wisdom and_ romance, that many times may hold one to a realization of his highest hopes. A home without a shelf of books is like a house without windows, a life without hope. It is like a traveler in a strange land groping his way along darkened alleys with no guide posts or lights to direct his stumbling feet: BOOks help to pattern our lives. They are essential to intellectual growth and spiritual development. They carry with them the wisdom of the ages; they beautify the soul. They bring courage, comfort, and peace in hours of turmoil and trial. For sheer enjoyment and wholesome delight, there is no expenditure of time that pays such rich dividends as that spent with books. Each person interprets life differently. The stories, the poems, the essays that clarify and emphasize our own philosophy hold us in their magic power. These are the books that call to us from the ends of the earth. These are the treasures that sooner or later find us, and bring to us the joy and uplift, the peace and satisfaction 

 

 for which we are forever searching. When we gather these treasures together within the confines of a small space, we are creating for ourselves a cozy corner of comfort, a little haven of rest, a quiet altar of prayer. In other rooms or in other parts of the same room, may be books of general interest, but let this one little shelf be an expression of your personality, your highest ideals, the inmost desires of your soul. Into this shelf gather all of your choicest books, that their spiritual beauty may shine out like a beacon to guide and direct you through all of the devious ways of life. You can commune with. Such books as you would with a true friend, for do they not represent your highest hopes and aspirations? Do they not express the eternal truths that call to you out of the dawn, out of the darkness, out of the years? In times of stress you can find refuge here. These stores of wisdom will help you to reach sane conclusions in the consideration of the problems that confront you. When torn with indecision you may go to your little shelf of books as you would go to your little room of prayer. Will you not find here the advice of wise men and good? If you have chosen prudently, you will find here books that will sing to you when the day is dull, books that will cheer you when the heart is lonely, books that will bring back hope after the color and romance have faded out of your day, books that will write new sentences into life after sorrow has washed the slate clean, books that will lift you on the wings of the morning and start THE SUNNY SIDE OF THE HILL the heart singing anew. One should bring to this small shelf only books of distinction, books that are friendly, companionable, and inspirational. Every member in the home should have his little shelf of books. Even the three-year-old loves his bright, colored picture books and happy jingles. Youth takes a just pride in the possession of a few of his favorite adventure stories or special editions that appeal to his particular interest; while Grandmother's memory clings to old, worn volumes as to true and trusty friends. Let us aim to have the right shelf for each member of the household, and the right books for every shelf; then, see to it that the week's program is so arranged that each person may find a suitable time and opportunity in which to read the books he loves the most. 697 No greater inheritance has come to humanity through the ages than the gift of books. No person should ever contemplate being without them. There is a book for every need, for every mood, for every mind. There is no substitute for them. Even the thinnest purse should reserve a few coins for the purchase of good books, for they are as necessary to life as food and clothing and shelter. Indeed, we may say they are indispensable to a full and happy life. The years are forever revealing new truths. If we are to choose wisely the volumes that are to fill the precious space of our small - shelves, let us so live that we may always be in tune with the Divine, in harmony with that spirit that will guide us unto all truth. — REALIZATION Eunice J. Miles I have a tiny apron With a pocket and a bow. My mother made it for me From a bit of calico. She fashioned it so faithfully, The while her smile was cheery. How could I know her heart was sad, Or that her feet were weary? I took the gift so carelessly, As if it were my due. That it would prove a parting one, Alas, I never knew. For now my mother's hands are still, They never more will sew An apron bright with ribbon From a bit of calico. HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon OCTOBER—The forest blushed when autumn kissed her. IT was twenty years last August since the 19th Amendment became a law granting universal suffrage. In these two decades women have forged ahead in commerce, industry, education, and the arts, and have obtained important legislation of a social and cultural nature. However, in public office, with few exceptions, they have attained only minor positions—one woman cabinet member, two ministers to foreign lands, two state governors, one commissioner of customs, twenty-eight congresswomen, and one circuit court judge; that is the record. DAISY HARRIMAN, United States minister to Norway, came home last month. Crown Princess Martha of Norway, her three children, and eight hundred other refugees from war-stricken Europe were on the same ship. From Norway also came Pearl Buck, the novelist, via Siberia and the Orient; while from Southern Europe came Philanthy Hatzimarkou, telling of starving men and women along the roadsides. EVA GABOR, Budapest actress, Mme. J. J. Bach, Paris modiste, and Countess Barbara Reventlow have applied for American citizenship. PRINCESS JULIANA, of - the Netherlands, is the guest of Canada's "First Lady," Lady Athlone, Queen Victoria's granddaughter, Princess Alice, ROSE L. McMULLEN of Washington, D. C., is known from coast to coast as the "woman with the golden blood." Through her generous transfusions she has saved the lives of more than two-score patients, even sending blood to strangers several miles away. THE Duchess of Windsor exercises no little authority when she cables for the swankiest hairdresser in Manhatten to come to Nassau to give her a hairdo for a reception. ELOUISE CALL of Brigham City, has been awarded the Relief Society Fellowship for graduate study in social work at the University of Utah. MARY RYAN aged 15, of Kentucky, won the championship of the National A. A. U. Swimming tournament, and Marjorie Gestring of California, the springboard diving championship, at Portland, this summer. ALBERTA L. JACOBS, president of the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs, Jane K. Kimball, and Lula B. Call, are notable Utah women who died this last summer. EDITH CHERRINGTON, Utah poet, is the prize winner in the Kaleidograph poetry contest, with her collection of fifty poems called "Phantom Caravan." MAURINE WHIPPLE of Utah, has another pioneer novel in print, Giant Joshua. The Unquiet Field, by Beatrice K. Seymour, is a saga of three generations of Lwerpool shipowners,  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 President First Counselor - Second Counselor - - Secretary-Treasurer Luella N. Adams Gertrude R. Garff i Leona B. Fetzer hiteiienins (Ginsti Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton Editor - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman 


Vol. XXVII OCTOBER, 1940 No. 10 EDITORIAL She Motivating Spirit of Relief Society THE month of October finds more than 21,000 executive and special Relief Society officers in readiness for the 1940-41 season's work. Many of these are approaching duties and responsibilities entirely new to them, while others are experienced in the positions which they hold. All, however, have accepted their positions in response to the call of the Priesthood of the Church. They are rendering a free-will service to the Church because of an inner conviction of the truth of the Gospel and the importance of contributing to the cause of the Master. Generally speaking, each one is approaching her calling with a sincere desire and a full determination to serve to the best of her ability, hopeful that she will enjoy a full measure of success in her work. Success in any task is dependent upon many things. One must know the requirements of the work and the obligations involved. A knowledge and an understanding of the governing rules and regulations of the work are important. The knowledge and ability to meet the requirements of the task are essential, while a love for the work and the will to succeed increase one's chances of success and enhance the joy of the worker. We are living in an era when efficiency seems to be our watchward. Efficiency in service is greatly in demand. The person who knows his job and who meets the requirements of it in a competent manner, who works with precision and economy, who achieves well-defined goals with accuracy and dispatch, is sought after on every hand. We are proud of the thousands of efficient women in our organization. We appreciate the opportunities that have come to them to equip them to lead so capably. We are grateful for their willingness to contribute their strength to the strength of Relief Society. But in our desire to be efficient in the conduct of our work, we must not lose sight of the great truth given us by the Apostle Paul in 2 Cor. 2:6: "... For the letter killeth but the spirit giveth light." In Relief Society work there is a great underlying spirit, as deep and as broad as the work itself, which motivates all of our activities. It has characterized the work of the Society 700 for nearly one hundred years. It has been exemplified in the lives of thousands of women who have affiliated with the organization. It has been the unifying, compelling force that has carried us forward and enabled us to succeed. It was this spirit which prompted eighteen women to request the Prophet Joseph Smith to organize them into a society for human betterment. It was the same spirit which kept the organization alive in the hearts of women when they were unable to attend regular meetings because of the difficulties incident to crossing the plains and establishing the Saints in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains. It is this same spirit which has caused the organization to grow and flourish until today its influence is felt far and wide. It is the same spirit which so recently caused a Relief Society president living in a war-torn country to travel a distance of 60 miles on a bicycle to succor her sisters whose city had been ravaged and whose homes had been destroyed by war. This Relief Society president did not carry to her stricken sisters baskets of food and new clothing. She was unable to restore the shelters which had been so ruthlessly demolished. She did not carry a purse full of money to purchase material comforts for them. I do not believe she was conscious of her own efficiency in the conduct of her work nor was she concerned about individual or organization credit. Her one concern was the spiritual welfare of her people. She wanted them to know that they were not alone in their time of trouble. She wanted to encourage and bless those whom she loved. She carried to her sisters something of greater worth than food, clothing, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940

 shelter or money; she carried to them the greatest restorative in the world ?the true spirit of the Gospel. Her genuine love for her fellow men and the activities which it prompted were motivated by the spirit which underlies and motivates all of our worthy activities. To the degree that the spirit of the Gospel characterizes our work we will be successful, and we will fail to the degree that it wanes or is found lacking. The Apostle Paul gives us the key. He says, "No man liveth unto himself," and "... Be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another, love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous, not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing, but contrariwise blessings; knowing that ye are thereunto called that ye should inherit a blessing." It is the spirit of the Gospel which enables us to render our most effective service. Service thus rendered is a selfless service entirely devoid of any thought of recompense. Personal sacrifice and effort are entirely discounted. All consideration of personal gain is effaced. Recognition and praise for what we are doing are disdained. Everything becomes subservient to the genuine desire to help one another and promote the work of the Lord. The most important thing in Relief Society is to keep this spirit alive. It should dominate all of our activities. If the work of our capable leaders is animated by the spirit of the Lord the lives of Relief Society women will indeed be enriched, the work of the organization will progress, and those who are called to serve will enjoy the greatest luxury in the world?the luxury of doing good. This is in reality true success.