Because I love you so,  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940

 "?I asked you, madam, iffen you wished to separate from me?' " Though he finally gives his consent for her to go, and says, "We won't call it a separation," the incident pushed them farther apart and brought them both deep suffering. In later years, when Peyton's wife Adrienne feels that she must leave her husband because they, too, see things differently, Jane begs her to stay. After a serious illness, Peyton returns to Philadelphia to assist Jefferson, Adrienne begs him not to go. He answers, "Surely, Adrienne, you understand I have work to do." With a swift motion she rises and leaves the room. Peyton departs. The next day Jane finds Adrienne packing, ready to run away to England. When she understands what her daughter-in-law is intending to do "she felt as if her legs would scarcely carry her across the room to a chair." "I see?you are going away.' "Yes, madam ma mere,' " Jane sees that she is packing the twins' clothing and knows that she is planning to take them with her. "At the sight, the pounding in Jane's heart became a roaring in her ears. A curtain of blackness blotted out the sunlit room and against it she saw once more a candle smoking badly. She saw her hand teach forward, take the snuffers and delicately clear the wick. She heard her voice '... Suppose I say I don't care todo...." Where was it she would not go? It made no difference now. The refusal was the point of division where Matthew's road led off from hers.... If she could have known?if she could have seen, would her decision have been? ""Oh, no!' she cried, and the dark flood of wild emotion held back so long swept down upon her.; "Matthew! Matthew! She closed her eyes and for a moment the mad longing had its way with her. To go back!... If only she could stand again where Adrienne stood.... Adrienne! 'I think I know why you are going away, Adrienne.... But my dear, have you not thought?' " After the younger woman's outburst of explanation of all she fears from Peyton's actions, all the bitterness of their misunderstanding, Jane says, "Adrienne, you must listen to me. You must see what you are LESSON. DEPARTMENT doing. Look at me. You are very clever, and you have seen always?Matthew and me. Do you want?that for?yourself and Peyton?' "Slowly the color of excitement ebbed from Adrienne's face. ""But I said when the war is over, madam, in a little while' "So I said?oh, just as sincerely as you?-seventeen years ago.... You have not thought of what happens in such separations, but you must think of it before you decide to go. You say you act for the boys. You will not be able to keep your sons from danger if their father is there. They will run away from you. Mine did, when James was only fourteen.... After separation, Adrienne?the love that was cannot be found again?and life is not life at all.' She could say no more for the bitter weeping that choked her words. Adrienne rose from her knees and took the older woman in her arms. For a long time she was silent, absently stroking Jane's hair while she stared through the window at the garden with eyes too dry and hot for tears.. She stirred at last and laid her cheek against Jane's hand. "You have made me see, madam. I will stay, and we will fight with fate for our Howard men? together. Don't cry so, madam, it is not too late. There is still a chance to fight.' " This novel, taking a family through three generations of conflicts, is so filled with episodes it is impossible to give, in limited. Space, even a faint idea of the story as a whole. The above excerpts will indicate the kind of incidents employed and something of the pleasing style in which the novel is written. Only through actually reading the novel can one get an adequate vision of the author's purpose and a realization of how well she has accomplished it. LITERARY VALUE A masterpiece of literature has been defined as a record in suitable symbols of a significant experience of the author which has intellectual, 17 emotional, and ethical values in the experience itself, or in the subject matter, and an independent emotional quality in the style. Minor pieces of literature may offer one or more of these values. It seems to me that The Tree of Liberty, despite some obvious faults, has something of all of these values. Certainly, our intellectual horizons are widened by the vast amount of information given as an incidental part of the story. We see how people of a past age lived; we see them molding much that is the foundation of our lives today. The struggles affording the dramatic element in the book stir our emotions. We see love and ideals battling, brotherly devotion pitted against political duty, maternal anxiety and ambition struggling against conjugal loyalty. Dozens of, our deepest emotions are appealed to and deepened by reading this novel. Its ethical values are fully as apparent. Lessons of national significance as well as of individual importance may be drawn from it. Furthermore, there are passages of stylistic charm which cause us to pause for the pleasure they give. Teaching Helps 1. A genealogical chart on a board or large cardboard kept before the class during the lessons would help to keep the many characters and their relations clear. 2. Choose points from such chapters as 12, 29, 39 to illustrate the author's interesting manner of treating historical events and keeping the theme of liberty constantly in the foreground. 3. Assign definite episodes which bring out highlights in the story and have them given either at intervals during the class leader's discussion or following it. Some of the best episodes are: the decision of Jane to leave Matthew; the decision of her sons to follow him to war; the meeting of Peyton and Adrienne; Peyton's trial 718 and imprisonment, caused by Harriet's betrayal; the courtship of Tom and Margaret; the presidential election which resulted in a tie; Jane's lie to Adrien's sweetheart and its tragic results; Tom's return after the expedition. 4. Make a list of significant facts you 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940

 have learned from the story or that have been emphasized by the novel. 5. Discuss the Latter-day Saint belief that divine inspiration guided the work that led to the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. Social Service EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE Family Relationships Lesson 3 Am I A Housekeeper or A Homemaker? (Tuesday, January 28, 1941) NO more important question can a wife and mother or a husband and. Father ask herself or himself than, "Am I a housekeeper or a homemaker?" Yes, the husband, too, is classified as one or the other according to the manner in which he functions as a home partner. Maybe we should modify the question somewhat and say, "Am I primarily a housekeeper or a homemaker?" because it is not possible to arbitrarily draw a line and say that everything on one side of the line makes one a housekeeper and everything on the other side of the line makes one a homemaker; in fact, no distinct line can be drawn between the two. An efficient homemaker is certainly a good housekeeper; on the other hand, an expert housekeeper may be a most inefficient homemaker. The duties of the housekeeper are the care and management of the physical aspects of the home; generally, the husband concerns himself with the outside of the house while the wife is more concerned with the 'sible. Inside management. The typically good husband housekeeper has an immaculate yard, everything in place, fence in good condition, house freshly painted, flower beds, lawn and trees well "barbered"; there are few, if any, signs of family living outside of the house. And we may add that the male housekeeper usually provides a dwelling as commodious and pretentious-looking as posThe typically good female housekeeper displays the same degree of immaculateness within the house. Both housekeepers carry on their various activities absolutely according to schedule; the days of the week and the hands of the clock are the most powerful regulators of their lives. Housekeeping duties can be delegated to any person trained for the job without necessarily resulting in hazards to the family.