realization. The conflicting views in the Howard family represent the larger conflicts of an evolving democracy. Matthew Howard is introduced to us in the first line of the book, as he chops wood outside his father's frontier cabin in the backwoods of Virginia. His Uncle Reuben returns from a long sojourn, where he has witnessed the Ohio Company extending the boundary line of the New World and subduing the Indians. His thrilling account sets young "Matt" to dreaming. ?Matthew's days were filled with secret adventure, and at night he slept to dream of Ohio's great scope of country, that right-down promised land." From The Tree of Liberty, by Elizabeth Page, copyright 1939 and reprinted by permission of Farrar and Rinehart, Inc., Publishers. M5 Matthew is sent away to school with a promise from his father that later, "We're going to Ohio, son. Hit's new country and every man has a chance. I've set my. Heart for you to be a leader, like Colonel Jefferson is in Albemarle. For that ye need schoolin'... For to take the part in Ohio that your pappy can't take." But though Matthew acquitted himself creditably in his new life at school, his father was to know little about it, for the latter (under Colonel Washington) had gone to fight in the French and Indian troubles. Later, Matt goes to take his father and his uncle supplies and has his first glimpse of Colonel Washington, which results in the beginning of a hero worship that lasts all his years. At that time, also, he receives a commission to take the mother and sisters to the new and better land out in Ohio in case the father does not return. His father says: "It would be a mortal heavy task for some lads, Matt, the care of a woman-person and two little lasses on a far journey, but I have it in my heart you're to be a man and a leader." "?Twould be a sin were I not a man," he said quietly, "and I your son." Those were the last words between the father and son. James Howard was killed before the expedition against the French ended. Changes now come thick and fast to Matthew, chief of which is his marriage to the aristocratic Jane Peyton. This circumstance defers his dream of going west to Ohio; but it persists in the lives of his grandchildren and materializes 'with them. Jane Peyton stands for a set of ideals and | standards diametrically opposed to those of Matt, the son of a frontiersman. To him, individualism, personal equality, independence are the foundation stones upon which happiness must rest. Jane, on the other hand, worships wealth, refinement and conformity to set standards and old English traditions, It was inevitable that their life together should be one of endless clashes, and that their children should inherit their strong differences. They have two sons, Peyton and James, and a daughter, Mary. Peyton and Mary favor their father's views; James champions his mother's. James becomes closely associated with 716 Hamilton, and Peyton with Jefferson. Through the conflicts between the brothers in their ambitions for their country, we realize the greatly divergent ideals of the two outstanding political leaders. It is what these conflicting elements finally develop in the characters of the third generation that gives the ending and meaning to the antagonism that had almost shattered Matt's and Jane's lives. Fortunately, the children's differences are less fierce, less personal, than those of their parents; and in the third generation, because of tendencies inherited from the opposite side of the family, the grandchildren represent a balance between the two Opposing views of government. It is in the lives of his grandchildren that Matt finds something approaching the dream of liberty that he has carried throughout his life. Two dramatic highlights in the story will serve to show how the conflict persisted, and how Jane, having endured suffering in her own life, was able to help her daughter-in-law to steer her marital boat into less troubled waters. In the first instance, Matt has decided to go to war. " 'Jane,' he said, 'come into the library, lass. I have something to tell you.... I have a chance to join General Washington! A group of gentlemen from here are riding next week to offer their swords and services. You could pack and be ready in a week, couldn't you?' "Pack!.,. And suppose I say I don't care to go to Philadelphia, Matthew?' ""Oh, come Jane, you'll have to come to Philadelphia.... Albemarle is not safe.' "Jane laid down the snuffer. "Tm not angry, Matthew.... But I. Shan't go to Philadelphia. I'll take the children to Elm Hill' (the home of her brother, with whom Matthew had broken). "Elm Hill!' Matthew got slowly to his feet. 'You don't mean that, Jane?' "I certainly do. It's my home, and? "Where I am is your home,' he broke in sternly, 'since it's with me you have married. The war is in the north and will likely be fought out there. In Philadelphia I could see you, and you could know where I am and write to me. But Elm Hill? hit would mean separation, Jane.' "T know it, and that's whi ' "You want to separate?' " "Matthew, please listen to me!