[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 457 | General Feature | Notes From the Field Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field Relief Society Activities]

457 June 1968

 Idaho Falls (Idaho) Stake Singing Mothers Present Concert —> "These Things We Love," February 26, 1968 Alice B. Jones, Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society President, reports: ''The theme for the concert presented by the Singing Mothers of our stake was 'These Things We Love.' The program was woven around showing love for the home, family, community, region, and ended with a patriotic section showing love for the nation. "The stake center was decorated with large bouquets of red and white ribbon roses, flags, and drums, accented with golden eagles. A large and appreciative audience attended. "The music was under the direction of Jolene Wright, stake chorister, and Florine Berntson, stake organist. (Both are seen standing, front row center.) Donna Pieper was narrator for the script written by Helen Romrell, First Counselor. May Schwendiman, Second Counselor, was general chairman. Eighty Singing Mothers participated and all felt that it was a most rewarding experience." Ankara Branch Kuwait Branch Northern Mexican Mission, Monterrey District Visiting Teachers Convention —> February 17, 1968 Beginning fourth from left. Front row: Maria Dolores G. De Almaguer, President, Monterrey District Relief Society; Ada J. De Whetten, assistant supervisor, mission Relief Society; Juana G. De Vallejo, mission Relief Society President. Pauline M. Green, Supervisor, Northern Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports: "We have had some very successful visiting teacher conventions under direction of Sister Vallejo. She presented certificates. Of recognition to all visiting teachers with one hundred per cent completion of assignments this past year, as well as Family Home Evening manuals. "This picture is of the Monterrey District visiting teachers. This convention was held in conjunction with the district quarterly conference."' 458 ¢ Swiss Mission, Kuwait (Arabia) and Ankara (Turkey) Branches Active in Relief Society Members of the Kuwait Branch Relief Society, left to right: Loya Hullinger, President; Karon Curtis, First Counselor; Carol Cahoon, Second Counselor; Jane Warford, homemaking leader. These sisters are displaying Christmas wreaths made from IBM cards. Members of the Ankara Branch, front row, left to right: Sermin Celibey; Barbara Knight, Linda Novakovitch; Tonny VanderHoeven; Carol Rogers; Helen Jonsson. Back row, left to right: Evelyn Analla; Phyllis Ames; Ann Schulz, SecretaryTreasurer; Roberta Peterson, President; Donna Woodland, Second Counselor; Mable Bird, First Counselor; Darlene LeBlanc, spiritual living class leader; Helen Penfield, social relations class leader. Rachel W. Mabey, Supervisor, Swiss Mission Relief Society, reports: ''We are proud of the branches of Relief Society in the Middle East. They are composed mostly of Americans involved in the oil business, government, and research. There are only four members in the Kuwait Branch Relief Society, but they are active and productive. In Ankara there are often visitors from the town who are impressed with the sisterhood and the work of the Relief Society. "President Mabey and I had the opportunity of visiting the Middle Eastern branches recently, and we throughly enjoyed the conferences we held with the members there, and were impressed by their spirit and the work they are doing." HIHZIHZIH HEHEHE ZHIHZHE ZHIH RHIHZHIH HEH % * Scottsdale Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present Concerts —> February 23-24, 1968 Cora O. Allen, President, Scottsdale Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'Our chorus of seventy-five Singing Mothers presented a two-night concert, 'Let Freedom Ring.' "It was an evening that listeners will long remember as they heard and watched the history of America unfold. Everyone was thrilled and inspired, and there was a renewal of love and pride in country as the program, through narration, songs, and slides unfolded commencing with the discovery of America by Columbus and highlighting important events in American history, reflecting the moods and strengths of the populace. "The script, selection of music, and slides were written and correlated by Francille H. Hansen, stake chorister, who was assisted by many talented sisters "The concert proved to be an excellent missionary tool, and a thrill to the participants. Many requests for repeat performances have been made."' Notes From the Field @ St. Johns Stake (Arizona) Visiting Teacher Convention March 9, 1968 Burma S. Hamblin, President, St. Johns Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We were very gratified to have forty-six per cent of all visiting teachers in our stake attend our visiting teacher convention. Winning the prize for highest percentage of attendance was the Ramah, New Mexico Ward, which is 110 miles from St. Johns. "This skit, 'A Light Shining,' was presented under the direction of Lora Parker, visiting teacher message leader, with narration by Nellie S. Slade, social relations leader. Six wards participated in the singing part of the skit, under direction of Mary J. Sherwood, chorister, and Rozelda Wilkins, organist. We hope that the inspirational message of the skit will carry over into the visiting teaching program of the wards."' ¢@ Layton Stake and Layton East Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Combine For Spring Concert, March 8, 1968 Standing in first row of center section, left to right: Janice Dawson, narrator; Marianne H. Call, President, Layton Stake Relief Society; Florence J. Madsen, member, General Board of Relief Society; Ruth C. Moss, President, Layton East Stake Relief Society; Mary Lou Lewis, stake organist; Lahoma Lindeman, stake chorister. Sister Moss reports: ''The Layton Stake was divided a few weeks before the concert. SO it was carried out on a combined stake basis "The theme of the concert was 'Prelude to Spring.' Songs and poetry which brought out the moods and beauties of springtime were used. Twelve choruses participated, each singing one number, directed and accompanied by the ward choristers and organists. The finale was sung by the combined choruses. Approximately 230 sisters participated. "An art exhibit was displayed in the cultural hall featuring the paintings of fifty Sisters from the two stakes. Refreshments were served to more than 600 guests at the close of the concert." 

461 June 1968

 North Seattle Stake (Washington), Tenth Ward Quilt Making Project —> Left to right: Arta Coy, President, Tenth Ward Relief Society; Lula Y. Smith (inset); Catherine H. Roper, quilting chairman. Wanda B. Bean, President, North Seattle Stake Relief Society, reports: ''For the past several years, the sisters of the Tenth Ward Relief Society have made baby quilts as well as several large quilts. This year they have made forty crib-size quilts as well as several large ones. The latest large quilt to be completed is the Cinderella quilt in the center of the picture. This quilt was appliqued and embroidered by Sister Lula Smith, who is in her eightieth year and who served as president of Cache Stake Relief Society for seventeen years (1918-1935)." * ' i Pe. Iet Avo Sone chars We year ns! I Uintah Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention —» March 8, 1968 Norda G. Cook, President, Uintah Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We held a very successful visiting teacher convention, with luncheon being served to over 160 guests. "The theme for the convention was Happiness Is Service,' with tables decorated in keeping with the theme. A lovely program was presented. "Bonanza, Naples Second, and Vernal Fourth Wards were recognized for achieving the highest percentage of attendance at report meetings during the year. Special awards were given to sisters for outstanding achievements in visiting teaching." 462 4 Columbus Stake (Ohio) Adds Charm to Relief Socievy Loraine M. Raiser, Homemaking Counselor, Columbus Stake Relief Society, with charm bracelet she prepared for January leadership meeting. Dorthene B. Richardson, President. Columbus Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme tor our leadership meetings during 1967-68 has been 'Show Me,' in an effort to demonstrate and illustrate the programs of Relief Society discussed each month. "The January theme was 'Show Me—Little Things Mean a Lot.' This charm bracelet illustrates that music, The Relief Society Magazine, greeting at the door, officers seated together, dignity in conducting, planned nurseries, publicity for special events. Pleasant room arrangements, and starting and ending on time, all of which are very important 'little' things, add charm to Relief Society. "Consistent attendance and support by dedicated Relief Society officers and teachers in our stake have made each of our leadership meetings a rewarding experience