[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 473 | Lesson |  | Alberta H. Christensen]
Alberta H. Christensen Thomas Carlyle once said, "The history of the world is but the biography of great men." (Heroes and Hero Worship.) Whether this statement be literally true or an accepted generalization, may be of little concern to all who acknowledge the influence of outstanding men. In life, they lead and direct, and, in memory, they still may motivate both thought and action. Such men are not only involved personally in some area of human relationship, but they may leave a written record of their problems, their aspirations, and their beliefs. These writings constitute an important factor in the profile of their lives, for in the sum of these writings, surely, the character of the writer must be recorded. The 1968-69 Melchizedek Priesthood lessons are taken from the writings and messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.—a wise and influential man and a member of the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from April 6, 1933 to October 6, 1961. The companion Relief Society lessons will likewise be based upon the writings and messages of President Clark. The lessons will be concerned with people, with the Latter-day Saint woman as the central figure. They will be channeled in the direction of her relationship with her Father in heaven, her family, her neighbors, and with her more casual acquaintances. As in previous lessons, the correlation with the priesthood manual lessons may be close in some cases; in other lessons, a single idea or religious principle may be developed in the direction of application to a woman's life. Social relations class leaders who have found the "within-thelesson" suggestions for class involvement a valuable stimulus for discussion, will welcome their continuance. They know that active class participation may result where pertinent questions and realistic fragments of conversation are wisely used. They have found 

473 June 1968

 that apt and convincing illustrations not only create interest in the subject, but may help class members more clearly to evaluate their own similar situations. New class leaders are urged to make full use of these involvement suggestions. Although tremendous strides have been made in the fields of scientific discovery, in the development of undreamed of mechanical devices, and in mental concepts, the peoples of the world have not learned how to get along with each other. Consequently, to understand and to know how to better our human relationships still are our major problems. Frustration, tensions, and unrest are everywhere apparent. Even the optimistic acknowledge the need for an increased spirituality and a strengthening of the home. The overall objective of the social relations lessons is to help the Latterday Saint woman meet life situations more maturely and to improve individual-to-individual relationships of which she is a part. Titles and objectives of the forthcoming lessons follow: Lesson 1—Profiles Remembered Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 Objective: To point out gospel teachings that influenced the life of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and to indicate how his life and writings may influence other lives for good. Lesson 2—The Questions Every Woman Asks Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 Objective: To point out that the questions which every thoughtful woman asks regarding her responsibilities and destiny are answered in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Lesson 3—Lighting the Way Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 Objective: To emphasize that during his ministry the Savior gave guidance on the basic aspects of human relaticnships. Lesson 4—The Latter-day Saint Woman in Today's World Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 Objectives: To consider issues which present new challenges to the Latter-day Saint woman and to suggest ways of meeting some of them. Lesson 5—Look for the Guide Line Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 Objective: To point out that the Latter-day Saint woman need not be deceived by false values and standards of today, if she will look for and heed the guide lines of gospel teachings. Lesson 6—That We May Be One Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 Objective: To emphasize the value of unity in the home and in various Church activities involving the Latter-day Saint woman. 474 Lesson Previews Lesson 7—''Not Where You Serve, But How" Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 Objective: To stress the importance of President Clark's statement, ''In the service of the Lord, it is not where you serve, but how."' Lesson 8—Are We Preparing? Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 Objective: To point out that being prepared for tomorrow may require diligent effort today. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4: The World Around Us by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas.) Preview of Lessons—1968-69 With Volume 4 of Out of the Best Books we view home and family in larger perspective. Earlier courses of study in this department have focused upon home and family rather specifically. The qualities which have set the theme for each lesson have turned our attention to the individual as part of a family and to the family as a basic unit. But no family really exists in isolation. All must establish some relationships within the societies of which they are a part. The missionary emphasis of the Church keeps us reminded that the gospel must be shared, and the very concept of a church suggests that certain principles can be best lived with others instead of apart from them. The scriptures warn us, however, that we must not be of the world, that is, let those who do not share our belief set the standards by which we live. In our anxiety to avoid the temptations of the world, however, we should not assume that the answer is withdrawal. In his classic essay on freedom entitled "Areopagetica," John Milton warns us that a "cloistered virtue" may not prove adequate to the stresses which the evils of the world may subject it to and which, practically, cannot be completely avoided. To be aware of evil, however, does not require participation in it. The emphasis of this year's course will be upon ways in which we can positively prepare ourselves to live in the world without succumbing to it. As in former years, each section will contain more material than can easily be used in a single less
