[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 418 | General Feature | Editorial The 138th Annual | General Conference]
EDITORIAL THE 138th ANNUAL GENERAL CHURCH. CONFERENCE I = The 138th Annual General Conference of the Church was held in the one-hundred-year-old Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 5th, 6th, and 7th, 1968. Church leaders and members from many lands and many nations gathered to hear words of courage, counsel, inspiration, and everlasting truth. Testimonies were strengthened, anxieties lightened, and spiritual ideals illuminated. The significance of Easter was emphasized as a time for a special recalling of the mission of Jesus and the pattern he established for men upon the earth. ''Feed the Lord's sheep, strengthen one another, and strive for the spirit of the Lord." Proceedings of the Conference were sent on the air waves by television, radio, and telestar, to thousands of listeners, world-wide. Membership in the Church was given as 2,614,340, a total for the stakes and missions throughout the world. Two of the General Authorities were advanced in positions of leadership and two new members a Belle S. Spafford, President ® Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor General Board: Anna B. Hart Edith S. Ethiott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Aiberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd 418 Elizabeth B. Winters were appointed to the First Council of Seventy. Elder Alvin R. Dyer, who was ordained an apostle last October, was called to serve as a counselor in the First Presidency, and Elder Marion D. Hanks of the First Council of Seventy was named an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. Elder Hartman Rector, Jr. Of Halifax, Virginia, and Elder Loren Charles Dunn of Natick, Massachusetts, were appointed to the First Council of Seventy. The beloved President David O. McKay, now in his ninety-fifth year, presided at all the conference sessions and personally attended two of the meetings. His addresses to the saints were read by his son David Lawrence McKay. In his counsel to the saints at the opening session on Friday, President McKay established a spirit of reverenceand rejoicing which continued throughout all the sessions. In speaking of the true meaning of Easter, he declared: That the spirit of man passes triumphantly through the portals of death into everlasting life is one of the glorious messages given by Christ, our Redeemer. To him this earthly career is but a day, and its closing but the setting of life's sun, death, but a sleep, is followed by a glorious awakening in the morning of an eternal realm... The resurrection of Jesus Christ is the most stupendous miracle of all time. In it stand revealed the omnipotence of God and the immortality of man. Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lita B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind President Hugh B. Brown, in his message delivered at the priesthood session on Saturday evening, counseled the members of the Church, and particularly those members in the adolescent years, to remember the building time of life and to make all the timbers strong: Keep in mind the challenging fact that your aim is not to get ahead of others but to surpass yourself; to begin today to be the person you want to be; to immortalize today and all the tomorrows that lie ahead in order that your life may have an eternal significance. Cultivate an unquenchable appetite for learning. Each of you ts the heir of the ages. They who have gone ahead of you have partially discovered and revealed a world of wonder with limitless uncharted fields ahead... Remember, the law of the harvest is inexorable. As ye sow so shall ye reap. President N. Eldon Tanner extolled the Word of Wisdom and counseled members of the Church to stand firm in resisting the very beginning of habits that are injurious and difficult to break: We, as members of the Church, have considered the Word of Wisdom as a direction from the Lord himself, with a warning and a promise. Today, the whole world, with the scientific evidence now available tc everyone, should... Observe this scientific warning.... On behalf of the First Presidency, and with their approval, I appeal to every member of the Church to keep the Word of Wisdom strictly; and to all responsible citizens to accept their responsibilities, to guard and protect our youth against the evils and designs of conspiring men who are determined by every available means to lead them to destruction. President Joseph Fielding Smith spoke of the need for prayer and its efficacy in daily life and as a direction toward eternity: Prayer is something that humbles the soul. It broadens our comprehension; it quickens the mind. It draws us nearer to our Father in Heaven. We need his help, there is no question about that. We need the guidance of his Holy Spirit. We need to know what principles have been given to us by which we may come back tnto his presence. We need to have our minds quickened by the inspiration that comes from him, and for these reasons we pray to him, that he may help us to live so that we will know his truth and be able to walk in its light, that we may, through our faithfulness and our obedience, come back again into his presence. President Alvin R. Dyer spoke of the parable of being ''born again"': Perhaps to be ''born again'' means to have another chance, to renew one's effort to measure up.... This is the Lord's work, my brethren and sisters, and we have no need to fear its triumphant outcome. There is a Prophet presiding through whom God is speaking, as I have witnessed upon so many occasions. I call to mind the words of the Lord unto the Prophet Joseph Smith at a time of frustration. And what was true then is equally true today. Here are the words of the Lord's counsel. ''The works and the designs, and the purposes of God cannot be frustrated, neither can they come to naught."' At the close of conference, President McKay blessed the saints and bade them keep the laws and ordinances of the gospel: May God be with each of you, and all people everywhere.
