[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 442 | General Feature | A Quilt For a Queen Jean | S. Groberg]
Close-up picture, showing detail of the crown pattern in the center of the quilt A QUILT FOR A QU EEN Jean S. Groberg, Supervisor, Tongan Mission Relief Society # The Relief Society sisters in the Tongan Mission recently had the opportunity of making a quilt for a queen! The occasion was the historic coronation of King Taufa'- ahau Tupou IV of Tonga and his lovely wife Queen Halaevaly Mata'- aho. The king-sized "queenly quilt" was especially designed for the occasion, with a large replica of the § Tongan crown and laurel wreath worked in fine quilting in the center of the quilt. The date of the coronation day was also worked into: the pattern and a regal scroll Jean S. Groberg, Supervisor, Tongan Mission Relief, Society, presenting the quilt to Queen Mata'aho. Work bordered the edges. A" 2 Q a The Tongan Mission Relief Society chose this beautiful handmade quilt to present to the Queen as a representative token of the ideals of the Relief Society organization in expressing to their new Queen their loyalty and support throughout her reign. She was also presented with some exquisitely fine and beautiful pieces of tatting made by Relief Society sisters. Queen Mata'aho graciously received these gifts and expressed sincere appreciation for them and admiration for the fine quality of work. Another interesting coronation time activity was carried on by the Liahona Branch of the Tongan Mission. These sisters made dozens of Tongan dolls to sell to the tourists who poured into the little kingdom at coronation time. The dolls were dressed in typical Tongan styles, complete with miniature "ta'ovalas" and "kiekies," the woven mats and ornamental waistbands worn by the Tongans. The dolls were very popular and were all sold in a few hours. Many tourists taking home with them these cute re-. Membrances of their visit to the Friendly Islands, read the little tags sewed into the dolls' clothes, ""Made in Tonga by the LDS Relief Society." 444 Some of the sisters who helped to make the quilt for the Queen, Tu'avava'u Mapa, President, Tongan Mission Relief Society, fourth from right Tatting pieces also presented to the Queen, displayed by tatting expert Laiana Folau and Sister Mapa Tongan dolls made by Liahona Branch Relief Society 7h oe aa