[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 447 | General Feature | "Chestnut Trees" (Paul Cezanne) Floyd | E. Breinholt]
7 i " 7 — ee ee ee "CHESTNUT TREES" by Paul Cezanne (1839-1906), French (Minneapolis Institute of Arts) Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Associate Professor of Art Brigham Young University s Each style of art had its inventor. Each artist believed implicitly in the importance of the truth for which he was searching. Each tenaciously clung to his concept—sometimes at great personal expense in other areas of his life. It has been said that great revolutionary leaders are men with a single and simple idea, and it is the very persistency and discipline with which they pursue this idea that endows it with power. Paul Cezanne was one of these. In spite of his great desire to have his work accepted by the officials of the art world, and the public who rejected and often ridiculed it, he gave up trying to be accepted and pursued his single idea the rest of his life in semi-seclusion. Herbert Read, well known art critic, described this single idea as follows: There is no doubt that what we call the modern movement in art begins with the single-minded determination of a French painter to see the world objectively. World, or that part of it he was contemplating, as an object, without any intervention either of the tidy mind or the untidy emotions. His immediate predecessors, the Impressionists, had seen the world subjectively—that is to say, as it presented itself to their senses in various lights, or from various points of view. Each occasion made a different and distinct impression on their senses, and for each occasion there must necessarily be a separate work of art. But Cezanne wished to exclude this shimmering and ambiguous surface of things and penetrate to the reality that did not change, that was present beneath the bright but deceptive picture presented by Cezanne believed that even though each brick and timber in a piece of architecture is important in its construction it is the building as a whole we see. Likewise, in a painting each part must contribute to the whole. He thought that in all nature—the landscape, the still life, and the human figure, there is reality which exists in substance and is more than surface. He tried to get away from the decorative element and present what was real. His struggle to do this was often very frustrating and he destroved many of his paintings to try again and again. In the painting "Chestnut Trees at Jas de Bouffan" you sense that the artist was struggling with technical difficulties—that it was not easy. You notice how he broke up the surface into separate independent colors. These in turn serve to build an architectural structure which gives the appearance of solidity—of existing in space—of being real, a generalization about nature rather than a literal reproduction of nature.
