[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 470 | Lesson | Alice | Colton Smith]
469 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Preview of Messages for 1968-69 Alice Colton Smith For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. (P. Of G. P., Moses 1:39.) And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. (John 17:3.).. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. (D&C 6:7.) The mass media of our day extol the desirability of the riches of the earth. As soon as one can listen, understand, or read, one discovers that the constantly repeated values of the world emphasize power, wealth, comfort, position, status, pleasure, beautiful homes and furnishings, cars, the advantage of material things of all kinds. Amid the clamor of these insistent urgings to spend, buy, own, be, and do, comes the advice of our Savior and King, "... He that hath eternal life is rich." We know that at death we leave behind wealth, power, status, and material things. Why, then do we spend so much of our energy and time in pursuing that which is so briefly ours? Why do we not listen to and act on the words of our Savior with greater devotion? He instructed us through the prophet Jacob:. Before ye seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of God. And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to do good—to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted. (Jacob 2:18-19.) Thus, God does not condemn riches, it is the unrighteous acquisition and use that are displeasing. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the gospel of hope. In a world where all men and women are faced with difficult problems, there is a never-ending need for assurance that good solutions are possible. Each generation exhibits the necessity of a prophetic interpretation of the word of God to assure it that justice, mercy, and love will be ultimately triumphant. This year we will explore anew the meaning of eternal life and the gospel of hope, and how we can be partakers of them in this life. Message 1—Today Is Part of Our Eternal Life Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 Objective: To understand that many of the riches of eternal life are available to us at this time. 470 Lesson Previews Message 2—''Let Every Man Esteem His Brother As Himself' (D&C 38:24-25.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 Objective: To realize that there is a universal need to be esteemed and to esteem. Message 3—Each Person Needs to Feel Accepted Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 Objective: To show that acceptance encourages growth. Message 4—We Are to Be Compassionate Toward the Afflicted * Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 Objective: To help us remember that compassion biesses the giver and the receiver. Message 5—Effective Communication. Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 Objective: To show how effective communication is an avenue to successful relationships. Message 6—''Draw Near Unto Me and I Will Draw Near Unto You..."" (D&C 88:63.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 Objective: To realize that our lives are more meaningful if we are close to our Heavenly Father. Message 7—''... And I, the Lord, Remember Them No More." (D&C 58:42.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 Objective: To understand that true repentance results in complete forgiveness by the Lord. Message 8—''... Thou Shalt Be Reconciled'' (D&C 42:88) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 Objective: To show that reconciliation is more than forgiveness.