[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 425 | Special Feature | Australia An Island Continent in Bloom Wealtha | S. Mendenhall]
At apple blossom time, the sweet spicy perfume from the productive 430 Australia—An Island Continent in Bloom and beautiful valleys of Huon and Derwent is wafted through the air. How majestic is Mount Wellington as it stretches upward, ever hovering over and making a green backdrop for the capital city, Hobart. A delightful climate and an ample supply of water greatly aid the crop yield in this area. In Tasmania, we find a touch and certain charm of the past, as well as a modern and progressive present. The handsome public buildings, homes, and gardens bespeak the enterprising spirit and the busy wharf. WESTERN AUSTRALIA Whether one desires solitude and freedom from rigid routine or the hustle and bustle of city life among an enthusiastic, friendly people, it can be found in Western Australia. This State occupies one-third of Australia's land (or a million square miles) and has about three-quarters of a million inhabitants. Here, large areas of land are being brought into productivity yearly, and steps are being taken to harness water wealth for the good of the land and her people. The well-organized air service, not only in Western Australia, but throughout the continent, has shrunk the vast mileage until it is possible for people to cover these great distances in a short period of time. Thus, sheep and cattle stations, once isolated, practically reach the thresholds of each other's doors. They also have a very efficient Royal Flying Doctor Service which supplies medical aid to those faraway places, and, in case of emergency, flies patients to the hospital for needed treatment. Perth, one of the continent's most beautiful, sunniest, and prosperous cities, is the capital of Western Australia, and is located between the Swan River and the Indian Ocean. Perth has wide streets, tall buildings, an art gallery, a museum, fine shopping centers, well-dressed people, and is the home of the University of Western Australia. Kings Park, alone, comprises 1000 acres in the heart of the city. The people here are friendly and are proud not only of Perth, but also of their State. SOUTH AUSTRALIA If you are sightseeing in South Australia, I recommend the leisurely climb up the wandering pathway, through lush mountain scenery of the Mount Lofty Range to Morialta Falls—a waterfall of exceptional beauty. As one rests and becomes attuned to the splashng water, scenery, the various scents from foliage, trees, and flowers, a sensation of peace seems to be everywhere. How befitting it is to look down over the City of Churches, Adelaide, the State's capital, and see chapels and more chapels, as well as the well laid out city, with its wide streets, avenues, hillside resorts, Koala Bear Park, Torrens Lake, beaches, gardens, factories, and the University of Adelaide, one of Australia's oldest universities, established in 1874. The main industries of South Australia are ship building, wool, wheat, and wine. Here we find large areas of arid plains, but the owners of the sheep and cattle stations are struggling to bring them into productivity in order to furnish more feed for livestock. The children living on these sheep and cattle stations, and in other isolated areas, do not attend school as do children in the cities, but receive their education through "The School of the Air," over a two-way radio which not only affords the children an opportunity to hear the lessons, but also to respond. 

431 June 1968

 NORTHERN TERRITORY to do so in the Northern Territory, for there are many Aborigi Native habitat On the Aboriginal] Reservations Some of them are Progressing from their Primitive Ways by attending School, Others are gti: and work With the People around ¢ em, to improve themselves and their heritage and to fit Into our modern Society, In the Northern Territory, we find req and Orange rocks and ground t Y faith and by Works, the People of Australia are fast ©vercomin the barriers and Obstacles they inherited, and they have brought the island Continent Into bloom. THE CHURCH IN AUSTRALIA How Very gratepia] we are that The Church of Jesus Christ of day Saints js firmly established In Australia, and that its teachings have elped to build faith and testimonies In the lives of Many of its izenship, There Was a Spiritual] Awakening as Prophesied, and on July 3, 1955, the Mission Was divided and the Southern Australian Mission was formed. In JUSt five Years, on March 27, 1960, the Sydney Stake Was formed. Then the Brisbane Stake Was Organized on Octobe; 23, 1960. In the Same month On the 30th, the elbourne Stake Was created Later, on February 23, 1966 Was Organized, and then the Sydney South Stake on May 14, 1967. Perth Stake Was Organized November 28, 1967. 432 Sydney Harbor, with the city in the background, and a view of the far reaches of one of the world's most beautiful and useful harbors A view of one area of Sydney Harbor with impressive buildings in the background, and the Manly Ferry in the foreground ne oe io VS eee oe.:- - ~ A = i. —s - wA2T) 4 MEETIIIA ab aT. $6 ba! 9.990% 06 o_—————— b.. 8 be tee oe The ''Coat Hanger' Bridge, a magnificent steel arch of which the Austrialians are justly proud Begonias in Ballarat, approximately one hundred miles from Melbourne in the State of Victoria A view of Queensland on the Pacific Ocean Adelaide in South Australia <a — Aboriginal children enjoying sun and water Shaw "The "Outback" in Southwest Australia Landscape in front of the Mission Home in Sydney, Australia i se >, en - 4 & e Durban Branch Relief Society officers, left to right: Pat Pel, First Counselor; Pat Robinson, President; Renee Kee, Secretary-Treasurer; Maureen De Wet, Second Counselor. Three-tiered birthday cake at celebration of Relief Society anniversary. Radiant flowers, always abundant in the subtropical Durban climate, add lovely decoration to the table Eleanor A.

abel Harmer Chapter 3 Maureen Taggart, a librarian, decides to go to Britain to do genealogical work, travel, and look over an estate in Scotland to which she is a joint heir. Just before leaving she meets Steve Madsen and is very much attracted to him. On board the boat she _ befriends Diane Curran. Both go _ to the home of Maureen's cousin, Bruce Taggart. # As Maureen awoke to a chilly November morning, her first clear thought was a yearning for the electric blanket at home. But I don't have it, she reminded herself philosophically, so Ill just have to add more clothing— night as well as day. She was sure that it would take years, if not a lifetime, to get used to this penetrating island cold. Diane was already up and dressing. The girls had _ been offered separate rooms in the big house, but had decided to share a bedroom for warmth and companionship. "Why so early?" asked Maureen, curling up into a_ ball beneath the covers. "It's. Still dark outside." "Mrs. Taggart is taking me to meet the Markham person. I must get there early before someone else lands the _ job. Anyway, it isn't nearly as early 

425 June 1968

 as it looks. I suppose that we are so far north here that there is less daylight in the winter." "So we are,' Maureen assented, venturing one foot out into the cold. "As for the job—from all they say, I doubt if you have to worry. Perhaps your real worry should be that you will get it." "I have to get it—as you well know," said Diane, emphasizing her words with a vigorous brushing of her light curls. "If I don't find something right away Sydney will insist upon quitting school so that we can be married. Of course, he has no idea how really short I am. His parents would always hold it against me, if he quit school on my account, and I don't want to start off with that handicap." "And you're right, of course," agreed Maureen, taking the plunge into the cold room. "And, if Mrs. Markham proves impossible you can look for something better later on. Which reminds me that I had best get ready to do more looking. I found a few interesting leads at the Public Records Office yesterday, but it's rather different from my own library experience at home." "Do you find this research at all interesting?" "*Oh, yes! In fact, I find it quite fascinating. And so do many other people, from the looks of the crowds there poring over the books. As you know, I have a very definite purpose in tracing my family lines and it amazes me to see how many people are there doing research merely to trace family lines and ancestors." "Perhaps they are hoping for 426 another castle—such as yours." "Perhaps," smiled Maureen. "On the whole, I think it is just an urge, but a very fortunate one for those of us who can profit by their efforts." (C ownstairs, they found only Catherine and the girls at breakfast. Bruce had left early for school and Mrs. Murch was out visiting. "At this time of day!" exclaimed Maureen. "Oh, the time of day means nothing to her, poor dear," said Julia. "She will have breakfast with her friend Mrs. Marble down the lane and help her to do whatever needs doing. There's always something. Of course, she will spread the glad news of our castle." "It can't make too much difference, can it?" asked Maureen. "After all, the news was bound to get out sooner or later." "No," agreed Catherine. "It can't make too much difference. Most of our neighbors won't believe it anyway. They'll say, 'The Taggarts inherit a castle! Ridiculous!' and that will be the end of it." "Oh, I hope not!" cried Kitty. "I am planning to impress my school friends ever so much. In fact, I hope that Mrs. Murch makes an awfully good thing out of it. I can't, in good conscience, do so myself." "Indeed, you cannot," agreed her mother. "Incidentally," she said, turning to Maureen, "we are expecting a visitor today who will be of interest to you—a Robert McPherson who lives on the estate. He is an artist and has some paintings on exhibition (Continued on page 451) AN ISLAND CONTINENT IN BLOOM Wealtha S. Mendenhall Former Member, General Board of Relief Society = May I come into your home and visit with you about the island continent, Australia? In the Southern Hemisphere, in the southwest area of the Pacific Basin, some 1274 miles across the great Tasman Sea from New Zealand, lies the remote island continent, Australia. My husband and I left California in 1952 for an extended tour around the world. We traveled on a luxury liner and leisurely sailed the beautiful blue Pacific, feasting our eyes on the sun-spangled waters, flying fish, cloud formations, stars, Moon, and the sunset in the evening sky. At the close of day, we were lulled to sleep by strains of soft melodies. What a relaxing, restful journey! EARLY EXPLORERS As a comparison, my thoughts turned to those early explorers and diligent voyagers of the sea, who sailed great distances across uncharted waters in open ships, with limited navigational instruments; and of their struggles to survive the elements, scarcity of food and water, sickness, and at times, mutiny. Many of them died and were buried at sea, while others bravely struggled onward, determined to reach their destination. Among these was Louis Vaes de Torres—the Spanish officer after whom the Torres Strait, which flows between Australia and New Guinea, derived its name. This was sailed in 1606. Captain William Jansz and some of his crew members of the yacht "Duvfken" were successful in reaching the Australian shore; but, they were met by the rich chocolate-brown skinned, dark-haired early inhabitants of that land—the Aborigines—who at that time were not blessed with an abundance of hospitality. Australia was, to the Aborigine, his grounds, his place to live undisturbed. The privacy of his small lean-to or hut type home, made of branches or a combination of wattle and daub, had not been infringed upon before. The vast plains were his to roam freely with his dingoes (dogs), woomers (throwing sticks), boomerang (angular throwing stick), and nets, in search of food, (wallabies, fish, kangaroos, wild herbs, roots, and fruit). In 1916, the commander of the "Bendragt," Dick Hartog, reached the coast, for later, a round platelike marker with such an inscription on it was found attached to a post. In 1642, that well-known Dutch navigator, Abel Janszoon Tasman, sighted the western coast of the island which is now known as Tasmania. This lies approximately 140 miles off the southern coast of Australia, and is today one of her six states. Other great explorers, many whose names are not known, preceded these, and there are interesting records of those who followed, including that heroic and colorful voyager, Captain James Cook. In 1770, he drop- 

427 June 1968

 year that the first European colonists settled in Sydney, and, it was in 1801 that Australia officially became a full-fledged member of the CommonThe anthem "Advance Australia Fair," States in the first and second Australia's sons, let us rejoice When gallant Cook from Albion sailed For we are young and free; To trace wide oceans o'er, We've golden soil and Wealth for toil, True British Courage bore him on Our home is girt by sea; Till he landed on our shore; Our land abounds in nature's gifts, Then, here he raised old English flag, Of beauty rich and rare. The Standard of the brave. In history's page let every Stage With all her faults, we love her still Advance Australia Fair. Britannia rules the wave. A LINK WITH THE PIONEER PAST a road, village, hospital, doctor, school, industry, or even a store, to Satisfy the smallest need. Was discontinued by 1831. The discovery of gold and the gold rush in the Settlements were established in areas other than Sydney, and before long colonies developed. Then came the birth of States and Territories. At present, six States and two federally controlled Territories Occupy this area—the land down under, GOVERNMENT The six States are Western Australia, South Australia, Queensland ew South Wales, Victoria, and asmania. The orthern erritory js THE COUNTRY AND THE CITIES This sreat expanse of water Stretching far away into all horizons ls hockey, cricket, rugby, golf, and bow ing on the green. SYDNEY June 1968 Australia and New South Wales. I was also impressed by the steel-arch bridge which extends gracefully across the harbor. CANBERRA I was more than impressed by the newness and simple beauty of the capital, Canberra. The wide open tableland at the base of the Australian Alps no longer basks in its look of yesteryear, but has emerged, according to the design of Walter Burley Griffin, an American architect, into the unique and impressive Canberra of today. Much of the bush and also the barren areas have been developed into landscaped gardens and parks. Streets are lined with brilhant yellow wattle and other lovely plants and flowers. Modern homes have been built and are surrounded with carpets of green grass. We find at Canberra the Federal Parliament House, Government buildings, museums, and a manmade lake, a thing of beauty. In the new city (and I say new because work did not commence on it until about 1913), we find the Academy of Science, which is a great help not only in the development of Australian lands, but also those of other countries. VICTORIA Melbourne, the capital of the state of Victoria, is one of my favorite cities. This metropolis has a lovely setting, as it was born on the green banks of the River Yarra, and its sprawling Dandenongs, dressed in forest and fern, furnish its eastern landscape. Melbourne has blossomed into the second largest city in Australia, and together with Sydney, the two cities have within their boundaries more than one-third of Australia's 11,000,000 population. QUEENSLAND In the United States on Thanksgiving Day, the people pause to give thanks to their Heavenly Father for the bounties of life and for their many blessings. In Queensland, the second largest State in Australia, and one of the most prosperous, a series of festivals is planned and conducted yearly in appreciation of the many blessings received. These industrious people celebrate the successful harvest of maize, apples, sugar, tobacco, grain, pineapple, flowers, and other items. The festival in Southern Queensland, when the apple trees are in full bloom and flower arrangements adorn the homes, hotels, shops, and streets; and the flower festival in Toowoomba, when flower gardens are a maze of color, are indeed unforgettable sights, a glimpse of peaceful beauty in color. Queensland falls mainly in the tropical belt, thus mother nature is liberal with her blessings. The largest coral reef in the world (the Great Barrier Reef) stretches about 1250 miles along her coast in the Coral Sea. Brisbane, a most beautiful city, is the State's capital. TASMANIA The island of Tasmania is the nation's smallest State, but offers a fascinating variety of scenery, ranging from the Russel Waterfalls, in the Mount Field National Park, to the peaceful quietness of Lake St. Clair at the base of Cradle Mountain.