SPEECH BY PRESIDENT MRS. L. J.  WIGHTMAN.
	Ladies, Members and Friends:—We are
very happy to meet you here this evening;
socially, and we would be pleased could we say
Politically on the same broad plain of Justice
and Equality, though we feel assured that ere
long justice will open wide her doors to women.
From time immemorial, Might held the Power
to make laws and call them right and so en-
force them, by this reasoning women being 
weaker than men have occupied the lowest
place, as among the savage nations and history
tells us with but few exceptions among the
most enlightened nations, that women over the
greater part of the globe today are humble
companions, playthings, captives and beasts of
burden. 
	In England the Nobility established their
privileges as they grew in power. The work-
ing class of men are allowed to vote and hold
office because as their power and might in-


creased they would not be put down, and so
claimed their rights and obtained them. But
women having no physical power to force
their rights must obtain them by some other
means, or be forever slaves; now it is conceded
by all men that as the world increases in
knowledge that justice and intelligence are
supreme in framing the laws that govern all.
Then we must look to justice and reason,
which plainly ask, ‘‘Why shonld not the in-
terests of women be consulted with as much
impartiality as the interests of men? this was
first broached in the nineteenth century and
since has steadily grown till it has become a
political movement, and therefore a subject of
general interest. Now we claim by the light
of political reasoning endorsed by Justice and
intelligence that every individual whether male
or female is born with an equal right to the
protection and consideration of the law, and
if so to secure this right every one man or
women is entitled to and must have the fran-
chise or privilege to vote. Now justice has
given this right to every male without regard
to creed or color. Why in the name of justice
under the broad banner of intelligence should
she withhold the right to protect women by
vote, simply because we are women? No, she
will not long, she cannot. We are neither
Minors, Idiots, Lunatics, or Criminals, but wo-
men, Mothers of the nations of the earth, rock-
ing, the cradles, that rule the states, we say
give us our rights and liberty the right of
suffrage the same as enjoyed by the sons we
rear for our country's good.


