WHAT IS OUR POSITION TODAY.

	What is our position today compared with
the past? Well what shall I say? I believe
that in the eyes of the world we are improving
because we are becoming more like unto
themselves, at any rate many of us are. But
what are we in the sight of Israel's God, our
God? Are we on the improve? Are we a wiser
and better people than we were fifty years ago?
This is the problem I would like to have
solved.
	Did not the Lord say "He that scattered
Israel would gather him as a shepherd gathers
his flocks. I well remember in the year 1842
this gospel was preached in Utica, N. Y., and
how attentively I listened to the same and felt
to say, how plain and sound, how clear to the
understanding is this doctrine. Certainly it is
the same that Jesus taught, but not popular,
neither were His teachings popular, yet the
common people heard him gladly.
	I thought our Episcopal minister to be such
a good man, surely he would see and under-
stand the subject, as I did; for to me it was the
voice of the good shepherd which enlightened
the mind, and enlivened the soul, making the
bible to read plainer and more clearly to my
understanding than ever.
	He thought I was mistaken and that he
could prove it by the bible; he said, whether
there be prophecies they will fail and tongues
will cease; but the next sentence he left out, I
repeated it for him, and knowledge shall
vanish away. He then said, Whoever shall
add to the prophecy of this book to him shall
be added the plagues, &c., the bible was so
complete at that time. Yes, I replied this was
St. John's vision. Whoever said he saw any

[Column 3]

more, or any less, to him should be add the
plauges. But the angel, said thou shalt
prophecy again before many nations, tongues,
and people; but he could not see the subject as
I did, to me this gospel was the same that
Jesus taught, and surely such a church must
be on the earth when he comes again, yes with
the same spirit, the same gifts, and graces that
characterized the church He left when He was
crucified.
	There were six of us baptized one Sunday
morning in Sept. 1842. The next Sunday one
of the sisters could not attend meeting, she
had a sick babe. In the evening I saw the
child healed by the prayer of faith.
	Since that time I have a knowledge of this
gift for myself. Yet there are many gifts, all
have not the same gift. St. Paul compares it
to the body saying if all were an eye, where
were hearing, and shall the hand say because
I am not the ear, I am not of the body &c.
	It is written the Lord will have a tried
people. Now I would ask, are our trials
sanctified to our good? or do we get weary in
well doing? I well remember, after the Prophet
and Patriarch were slain we were driven from
Nauvoo, how cheerfully we left, believing that
God was with us in all our afflictions, and I
know that we were comforted and blessed. As
soon as the camp fires were built the band
struck up sweet music; and while some were
cooking the supper, others of the young peo-
ple were stepping to the music. No sighs or
groans were heard. No, we took joyfully the
spoiling of our goods, knowing there was a
more enduring substance and better days
ahead, yes, hopeful and happy; feeling that
our religion was the true riches, and this life
but short at best. I know that our love was
genuine both to our Maker and also to each
other.
	A letter was sent to the Governor of Iowa
telling him we were going west to find a home
and as all were not prepared for a long
journey, if he would permit some who needed
help to stop and work a few days to get a
better start; he promised to let them stop,
We were invited into the school house to give
a musical concert. We found friends from
time to time, and thanked God our Father for
the same.
	Many have been the joys and sorrows which
have been ours from that time until this, and
with what courage and fortitude who can tell;
only our Father in heaven and those who have
passed behind the veil, and those who are ac-
quainted with, and have a knowledge of the
Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
When His spirit accompanies the act, it is not
the same thing which it would be without it.
No, then it would be gloom and sorrow indeed.
But His spirit brings light and joy and peace,
even in making sacrifices with comfort and
consolation.
			ZION'S CONVERT.
	Feb. 15, 1892.


Rev. Ella E. Bartlett, of Madison, Wis., 
has prepared a series of "Talks on Constitu-
tional History" to be given before women's
clubs. The subject is interesting and
important.
	At the executive meeting of tbe National
W. S. A. of Massachusetts, held last week
Friday at 30 West Street reports were given
by the delegates to the recent National-
American convention, one in writing from
Miss L. A. Hatch, and a verbal report from
Mrs. Eveleen L. Mason, who spoke in closing
of the proposed legislation in New York for
the legalizing of prostitution. The Associa-
tion passed, unanimously, resolutions offered
by Mrs. H. R. Shattuck protesting against this
iniquitous measure.


