THE NEED OF PRESS REPRESENTATION.

	The Jubilee celebration will mark a most im-
portant event in the history of the women of
Zion, and will doubtless be even more momentous
in the future than those who participate therein
can realize, or appreciate while thus engaged.
We look around and behold things near that
seem common place, events which are transpir-
ing are in themselves so real, that it detracts al-
most from their significance; but when "distance
lends enchantment to the view," when time has
mellowed all the hardness, if any there were,
when ages, or an age, or generation have past,
these same exigencies through which one some-
times passes fearfully as it were, become "foot
prints of time," made glorious because of the
strength and importance they bring in the links
of the chain of history of the times, and of the
world.

[Column 2]

	The Relief Society is a much more important or-
ganization than it has been thought by even many
of those interested in the work; looking back at
the sayings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
reflecting upon the prophecies he uttered in refer-
ence to this great Society one can see that the
great things predicted have many of them come
to pass and can thus feel assured that other things
will yet have their fulfillment.
	During the last few years the Relief Society
has made rapid strides in recognition outside the
valleys of the mountains.
	In 1888 the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A.
also the Primary Associations became connected
with the International Council of Women, which
is a Federation of womens' associations all over
the world; this is a wonderful step in the march
of advancement for women everywhere, uniting
them in one great band of sisterhood, a common
sympathy with each others' interests and for the
accomplishment of the greatest good for each and
all.
	In 1891 at the National Council of Women
which grew out of the International, the Relief
Society and the Y. L. M. I. A. became connected
with that organization also, and they stand on the
same platform with all the other great organiza-
tions of women throughout the United States.
The President of the Relief Society and the
President of the Y. L. M. I. A. are Vice Presi-
dents (by virtue of that office) of the National
Council and the International Council, and have
 the privilege of their opinions and wishes being
considered and of a vote in any Executive meet-
ing of the officers, and are consulted when any
business of importance comes before the Board
to be transacted.
	They are also entitled to representation at any
meeting or session of the Council itself, and to
send one delegate who shall have the same privi-
lege as the President herself. This may seem a
very small thing to some people who do not un-
derstand what these great bodies of women are
doing, nor what importance their strength and
number gives to whatever they attempt in the way
of advancement, or reform. One individual alone,
or one organization alone may not get their ideas
presented in a way to be heard and considered,
but when a combination of great organized bodies
come with their expressed views and desires, it
carries with it a power and significance, that is
bound to get recognition, and representation.
	These great and grand Councils of womens'
Societies, Associations and Clubs, form what
might be termed a great Congress where they
represent their constituents in whatever is deter-
mined upon n their respective localities by those
interested in any great measure. They are there
to represent not themselves as individuals but the
organization that has made them its leader or
delegate.
	In view of all this and much more that might
be said upon the subject, and in view of the Relief
Society in its entirety, one can easily see how
essential and almost imperative it is, that such a
great body of women with common interests re-
siding in different locallities, and in many
countries should have special representation
through the press, and through a newspaper of
their own. It does not seem as though it need be
necessary to say to them what advantages it gives
and yet it has been said over and over, and many
of the very women who receive the benefits de-
rived from this source, do not know or compre-
hend the actual necessity of helping to sustain
even by subscription, the paper which for the last
twenty years has championed their cause and ad-
vocated the various improvements, and their re-
 sults, all along the line of march in which women
are steadily advancing to the higher plane of edu-
cation, progress and development, socially, politi-
cally, and spiritually.
	It is a truth, that what one has at home is less

[Column 3]

appreciated than what comes from abroad, and
the saying of the Scripture that "a prophet is not
without honor save in his own country," is also
true, and of many other things it is equally true;
but when one finds himself without that which he
has become daily accustomed to, then he realizes
how necessary, or advantageous, it was to his
welfare or well-being.
	In this Jubilee year of the Relief Society and
especially since it was decided to celebrate it ap-
propriately, as a recognition of woman's advance-
ment in the line in which the best and most
marked work has been done; the calls made from
all quarters, to give information on this and that,
and  answer questions, as to woman's work in the 
Society, and so many other things bearing upon
the same topics, has told more plainly and em-
phatically than ever before how lame the Society
would be without this paper for reference, and
how impossible it would be to keep posted, with-
out the help of the press.
	The writer has called to mind more vividly than
ever before the words of the late President
Brigham Young, when on one occasion he was
giving her some advice about conducting the
paper, said he, very positively, as was his usual
manner, "tell the sisters to take the EXPONENT
and keep it, for it will contain the record of their
work and a portion of Church history;" he also
added "and I give you a mission to write brief
sketches of the lives of the leading women of
Zion, and publish them." These are his exact
words as near as we remember and are written
down in the diary of the writer kept of daily
happenings.
	This celebration must be emphasized very
strongly through the press, and without an organ
expressly for women how could it have the same
prestige. The time has arrived when it has be-
come an actual necessity to awaken a greater
and more wide-spread interest. The matter has
been talked about in the Relief Society Confer-
ences and in different places in the country where
the sisters have visited and held meetings, but so
little has been accomplished in this way, that it is
scaacely noticable.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young in one of the General
Conferences of the Relief Society when urging
the sisters to sustain home papers etc, said, she
had advised in places where she had traveled and
thought it proper, to have two sisters appointed
in each ward to canvass for the EXPONENT—and
this is the counsel she gives now, that this be
done. One dollar a year is a very small item, but
if that is too much two or three can join and take
the paper together. And certainly before sub-
scribing for any paper outside the Territory, sus-
tain the one published in your own interest at
home; wherein you have the opportunity to rep-
resent yourself and the organizations with which
you are connected.
	It is to be hoped that this Jubilee will wake up
those that are indifferent to the growth and de-
velopment of women in this age and to the needs
of active help in the present; there is much to be
done in the work of reform and of educational
uplifting and many stand aloof and do not render
any assistance, and even ridicule those who are
brave and earnest and persevering; thinking it
uncalled for, because forsooth perhaps they have
some strong arm to lean upon, but how easy it
would be when thus protected, thus fortified, to
reach out a helping hand to those who stand as
it were alone, and there are many such.
	One of the important lessons which this grand
Jnbilee will possibly teach, or is likely to impress
upon all is that of love and union. Love is the
great power that will lift mankind to a higher
plane, true love, the love that brings out all the
best and noblest qualities of the human soul.
The love of God and the love of our fellow-men.
	This great and grand organization of the Relief
Society that has almost made a band around th


world is joined and linked in all its several
branches in one great whole, one almost perfect
circle; beginning in Illinois on the banks of the
Mississippi it has gone Westward, into the fast-
nesses of the Rocky Mountains, and South West
to the Sandwich Islands, and from thence to
Samoa, and across the continent, thence East
to the kingdoms of Europe, taking in
Great Britain and Holland, the countries of Scan-
dinavia, Germany and Switzerland to Asia Minor,
extending Southward to Australia, Tasmania and
New Zealand.
	This Society everywhere observes the same
uniformity of purpose and practises the same be-
nevolence, extends the same genial sympathy to
the needy, the sick and suffering, whether the
language spoken is the English, French, German,
Hawiian or whatever tongue is used, or whether
the climate in which the sisters reside is hot, or
cold, the same influence directs their works and
their labors, for they are all partakers of the same
Spirit which the Gospel of Jesus Christ brings to
all who embrace it with honest hearts and with
pure motives. That this Jubilee celebration will
more firmly and closely unite the hearts of the
sisters there can be no possible doubt.
	Te celebrate this occasion on the same day all
over the world wherever there are branches of
a Society whether large or small is an event of
peculiar significance, and one almost unheard of
in the annals of history. To be sure there have
been great gatherings in different lands when wo-
men delegates from other countries have met for
some given purpose, but when has a day been set
apart and observed in so many cities, towns and
countries and on both hemispheres and the
islands of the sea? When has there been a uni-
versal prayer offered by the women of any society
in all lands at once? Such an event has not tran-
spired in this age of the world, that there is any
record of. A solemn yet joyful occasion. It por-
tends more than we know. The day of woman's 
emancipation is at hand, already the dawn is be-
ing heralded. And while woman waits the signal
of victory, it is meet that she bows in humility
and prayer for the divine blessing, the inspiration
that only comes through the Holy Spirit.


