	WOMAN'S STATUS IN SWEDEN.
	The Swedish girl, unlike her German cousin
is an individual first of all. Her life begins
with the conviction of those about her that
she is destined to be of some importance in
the world in which she lives, and as she lives
and as she grows she learns to be and to do.
			HER EDUCATION.
	The education of the Swedish girl is similar
to that of her brothers, and if she choose she 
can take an academic course.
	The schools, which are under  Government
supervision, supply not only good, but ample
means of improvement, and the Swedish
woman is a cultivated and a learned member
of society. She is an object of interest to all
who meet her and holds her place in what-
ever discussion may be under way. She is
womanly and is possessed of all a woman's
accomplishments, but she is intellectual as
well. Lady Wilde, who writes enthusiastically
of these Northern sisters, tells us that intel-
lectual women hold a higher position than is
granted them in England. That in Sweden
the peerage of the intellect holds sway, and
that able women are treated with distinction
and are honored for their attainments quite
apart from any consideration of birth.
	If, indeed, we may believe all that the com-
mentators on Sweden and its people tell us, the
Swedish woman is queen of women.
		HER SYSTEMATIC TRAINING.
	The State devotes special attention to the
education of the girls and provides for such
trained to serve, and all intermediate pursuits
self-supporting. All grades of work are
taught. Governesses are trained to teach,
servants are trained to serve, and all inter-
mediate pursuits are open to those who wish
to learn, so that the girl who is thrown upon
her own resources is fully equipped for the
battle of life. She is provided with the
implements of work and her labor brings her
honor and respect.
	In the political world the Swedish woman
takes her part, and her opinions are sought by
the men of her family and acquaintance. As
yet the franchise is not hers, but it is thought
by those who know that in this reform Sweden
may yet lead the way. Her women are ripe
to take the responsibility of the change; they
are a thoughtful and an educated body, and
already their counsels are sought by the
masculine pastors and masters.
			QUEENS OF SOCIETY.
	Education is not confined to the few, but is
obligatory, to a certain degree, upon all, so
that the Swedish women throughout the land
are able to understand and to contend with
the problems of the day.
	As girls they are an inspiration to their 
brothers, to their lovers and to their friends;

[column 2]

as wives they are the chosen companions of
their husbands, and as mothers they guide
and educate the children who will follow after
them. They are honored in their homes,
sought after in society, and, in short, occupy a
place in the world not unlike our home.
	In society the Swedish women are leaders
when so inclined, ornaments always: in politics
they are the friends and counselors of those
who rule, and in their homes they are queens.
		THEY ARE NOT COQUETTES.
	They are good linguists, well read and
discourse with grace and decision as if their
opinions were of some importance in a discus-
sion. Intellect, good sense and graceful
dignity are their characteristics, not coquetry
or love of vain display. Many of them are
writers; indeed, very many have published a
volume of some kind or other, prose or verse.


