COMMUNION.

	There is something sweet even in the word
communion, it seems to suggest a close inti-
macy and loving sympathy with friend or
friends, a union of heart and desire for their
company, a wish to please them, to take their
counsel, to willingly give them the preference
in all things, believing their ways and desires
and plans better than our own.
	We do not always find this amount of confi-
dence even between the saints of God, but we
have one—our Father in heaven in whom we
can place implicit trust at all times and under
all circumstances and He never betrays our
confidence. He is always ready to draw near to
us when we draw near to him, and in the hour
of communion with him we are privileged to
confide to His ear—our sorrows and our joys
our wants and our desires—and if we approach
him with pure motives, in humility of spirit
and as dutiful children to a loving Father, we
may always rest assured that He will meet with 
us, and bless us with whatever will be for our
good.
	We have many beautiful examples of com-
munion with God in the sacred scriptures.
Those saints who enjoy the approbation of God
were always those who lived in daily communion
with him. Isaac went out in the fields at
eventide to meditate, or in other words to com-
mune with his God. He had sent his servant
on an important errand and he was doubtless
asking the Lord's blessing on the undertaking.
His servant, though a long way from home was
receiving an answer to his, and his master's
prayer—"and he worshiped the Lord and said,
Blessed be the Lord God of my master Abra-
ham, who hath not left destitute my master of
His mercy and truth—I being in the way the
Lord led me." He had in prayer sought the
Lord's direction and He had led him the right
way. Moses was specially favored of God—
his was truly a life of communion. On Mount
Sinai he communed with his God until his
face shone so that he had to cover it with a
veil before the children of Israel could look
upon him. Hannah was communing with her
Lord when "she spake in her heart; only her
lips moved, but her voice was not heard." She
"poured out her soul before the Lord and He
heard her and granted her request. David
was a man of much prayer, said he, "Evening
and morning and at noon will I pray and cry
aloud and he He shall hear my voice,"
	It was communion with God which gave
strength to the three Hebrew children to bear
the "burning fiery furnace," rather than wor-
ship a false God. It was communion with his
Father which inspired Daniel with courage to
face the hungry lions, knowing that God would
deliver him in the hour of peril. Turn we to
the Book of Mormon and we find Enos to be
a man of much prayer—he gives us a very
interesting description of the way by which he

[Column 2]

obtained remission of his sins. His father had
often spoken to him concerning Eternal life
and the joy of the saints, and it had sunk deep
into his heart, and he says, "My soul hungered
and I knelt down before my Maker and I
cried to him in mighty prayer and supplica-
tion for my own soul; all the day long did I
cry unto him; and when the night came I did
still raise my voice high that it reached the
heavens and there came a voice unto me say-
ing, "Enos thy sins are forgiven thee and thou
shalt be blessed." Like our own Prophet
Joseph, he was inspired with the spirit of com-
munion and like him in the forest, he poured
out his soul before God and he obtained that
for which his hungered.
	Our Lord and Master felt the need of daily
communion with His Father. He never en-
gaged in anything until He first sought his
Father's blessing. When He was about to
heal the sick, He withdrew himself into the
wilderness and prayed—the result was, the
power of the Lord was present to heal. He
let nothing come between him and his Father
to disturb the spirit of communion, sometimes
"rising up a great while before day," at other
times continuing "whole nights in prayer to
God." Whether He was surrounded with
thousands of people clamoring for bread, until
He had to work a miracle to supply them
whether He was healing the sick, or blessing
little children, whether He was publicly preach-
ing, or privately instructing his disciples, He
found time to pray.
	When He found it necessary for his disciples
to have a season of meditation and prayer, He
said to them, "Come ye yourselves apart into
a desert place and rest awhile." He some-
times finds it necessary to say the same to us
and the way He leads us into a desert place,
is to lay the hand of affliction upon us, thus
bidding us to rest awhile till we examine our-
selves and remember our covenants, that we
made with him, when we were buried with
him by baptism and rose again to walk in new-
ness of life, and well will it be for us if we
make good use of these solitary seasons lest by
our negligence we draw down severer judg-
ments upon us.
	Let us endeavor to follow more closely the
example our Divine Master places before us.
Let us follow him as he pensively travels over
the path of life, speaking a comforting word to
the bereaved, relieving the distressed and in-
structing the ignorant. See him at the close
of the day lifting his hand in blessing on the
crowd and bidding them go to their homes,
watch him turning his back upon them and
his disciples and move off to the mountains.
Follow his receding figure until it is lost in
the distance and we know that in that
dense darkness, he is in deep and loving com-
munion with his Father in heaven. If this
was needful in his case, how much more in
ours, who have wants a thousand fold greater.
	Jesus, Brother! help us to find thy knee
prints on the mountain and pray to thy Father
and our Father, thy God and our God. Let
us put aside the pleasures of life, which are so
empty, so vain and unsatisfying, and let us
take deep draughts at the well of communion,
and thus imitate him, through whom we enjoy
the hope of eternal life.

	Cold mountains and the midnight air,
		Witnessed the fervor of His prayer;
	The desert His temptations knew,
		His conflict and His victory too.
