IN RURAL ENGLAND.

X.
	WEARY with the journey and dispirited
because of the continued strain upon the ner-
vous system, the young ladies at the Castle
longed for rest and quiet. Under the circum-
stances this was next to impossible. It was
positively necessary that some action be taken
immediately, and so Mr. Burke informed Miss
Conway. "There is no time to delay this
matter," he said to her. "The will must be
acted upon, the time is now advanced because
of the long journey, and my duty as the family
solicitor compels me to notify all persons
(which I have done) interested to assemble 
here on Friday night." This was the ultima-
tum, then. It was in the evening of Saturday
he had come up from London, and he lost no
time in stating his errand, and he spoke with
authority. "Miss Conway," he continued,
"you will please make this matter plain to her
ladyship, and meantime see that preparations
are made for the entertainment of Sir Edward's
relatives, who will arrive probably a day or
two prior to the date mentioned.
	Miss Conway was mentally glad that there
was something really necessary to be done, other
wise she would brood over the declaration of
Dr. Bland. Nothing further had been said, and 
the self-contained young girl did not know
what was wisest to say or do were he to speak
out again. She had thought over all the ladies
she knew, and wondered if there were one
among them, who could give her safe advice,
and would she take it if it were given? She
was even more helpless than her cousin, for she
could lean upon her, and knew too that she
wanted, while poor Jane was not at all confi-
dent that it would be best for her to accept Dr.
Bland's offer of marriage. She had looked
forward to a life of single blessedness and toil
in the house of some relative, latterly her
uncle Edward's, or as governess, or companion
to some gentlewoman. This had been the extent
of her ambition, except the aspiration to do
right for the love of principle. This seemed
interwoven in her very nature, and an inherit-
ance she clung to tenaciously. And this very
idea made her shrink from  marriage with a
man whom she felt no special preference or
attraction for, that it would be wronging him
and above all wronging her own acute sense of
honor and uprightness. "If I only knew what
was right," she often said when alone. She had
not yet learned that the Lord would guide and
direct her if she sought aright.
	Faithful and true she knew she could be,
even if her marriage should be an unhappy
one. That did not trouble her. She was not
thinking of happiness as the highest good. She
fretted less about her cousin than she would
have done for her own affairs was more puzzl-
ing. When Anna talked to her she gave her
sound advice, and reasoned like one learned in
the art of love-making. Maitland Walton had
kept away from the castle and behaved like a
hero, and she admired his manliness, though
his sweetheart thought it cruel and unkind.
He was waiting patiently to see what turn
affairs would take, or in other words to know
the purport of Sir Edward's last will and tes-
tament. His mother spared no pains in inter-
esting him; she had friends visiting at the Hall
and there was always some amusement—
music, dancing, riding, and the hours flew
rapidly by. Lady Walton had called soon
after their return, and for the first time then
met Lady Anna. Her pale complexion, fair
hair, and delicate figure, with the deep mourn-
ing in which she was dressed, impressed Lady
Walton deeply. "How beautiful she is," was
her first exclamation to her son on his return
home after the interview, and the young man
added, "How could old Sir Edward have

[Column 2]

such a daughter?" and Lady Walton drew
herself up to her full height and looking him
steadily in the eye said, "My son, never let
such an expression pass your lips again con-
cerning her father," and she turned away, that
he might not see her emotion; for though
years had come and gone she had never quite
conquered her own heart, and now that he was
dead, he seemed nearer; that is, she felt it
would not be so very wrong if she mourned for
him as a dead friend. While he was living
she would not dare allow her feelings to con-
trol her in the least. The son was entirely
ignorant of the cause of the estrangement be-
tween the two families. He wondered why his
mother had any interest in such a disagree-
able old fellow as the Baronet had been re-
puted to be; he could not realize, not knowing
his heart history, that he had once been a fine
specimen of one of the old aristocratic, titled
families, whose forefathers had been famous in
English chronicles. But his mother knew
these facts, and what had brought about the
change and made him old before his time. If
she had not visited him that night on her son's
account, she too would have been ignorant of
many things that now seemed plain, things
over which she had brooded in the far distant
past, that had been unfolded in the conversa-
tion with her former suitor, and she could not
help feeling that fate had brought about that
meeting, that some explanation might be made
before he passed away.
	So it was all right, notwithstanding the
embarrassment she had felt, and a sort of
consciousness that she ought not to have sought
him even to intercede for her son. And yet
she had often said in a dreamy way, "It must
be right to know at last that I wronged him
unknowlingly." Lady Walton, like Miss Con-
way, had no one to counsel with; she could
never explain to her son that the father of the
girl he loved had been her own sweetheart and
admirer, and that through all the years he had
lived since then he had carried her image in
his heart of hearts, and so, like Jane Conway,
she kept silence. But her cheek grew paler,
and she cared less for the gay parties where she
had been the gayest of the gay. The death of 
the Baronet could not outwardly affect her;
that is, she was not permitted, according to
conventionalities, to mourn for him; but her
husband noticed a change in her manner, and
frequently found her in tears, and would ten-
derly inquire the cause. She always answered
him in monosyllables, and he grew to think at
last that she was falling into a state of melan-
choly, and proposed more pleasure and gay
society; it was the only remedy he knew. How
could he think she could look back thirty years
and mourn inordinately a summer pastime; so
little do men understand the hearts of women.
His business occupations, looking after a large
estate, left him little time to reflect seriously,
and he had never troubled much about Helen,
except to give her everything a lady should
have to move in the best society. He had
allowed her unbounded liberty, and loved her
in his own fashion, as men do the one to whom
their name is given and their honor plighted.
He looked upon himself as a model husband;
and in some respects he was; still Lady Wal-
ton had longings unsatisfied, and now that she
had come to know the deception practised
upon her that had changed her whole life; she
reviewed the past with some degree of bitter-
ness. "For Maitland's sake I must go into
society," she said one day to a friend. "And
why for his sake? Are you growing old; you
do not look it; you are far more beautiful now
in your full matronly maturity than the young
misses who throng your parlors, or the balls
and parties given in London society?" I can-
not comprehend you of late; you are changed.
Is it that Italian whose fancy for you and your
music is so shockingly absurd, makes you want

[Column 3]

to withdraw from the circle in which you are
the brightest ornament?"
	"No! no, indeed; I am out of spirits, and at
my time of life one should turn her attention to
something more enduring."
	"Lady Walton," said her friend, "if I pos-
sessed your magnetism and power of fascina-
tion I do not think I should ever tire of the
world." You may think differently some day,
my dear Mrs. Emery. I am weary of attention
and of the small talk one hears. I long for ex-
pansion of soul and intellect.
	"I am surprised at your ambition. Fancy,
for instance, Lady Walton, the belle of London
society, termed 'blue stocking.'"
	"Not yet; I have not the talent; but if I had
I would go into seclusion, take a villa away
from here, avoid society, and write a book. I
have the taste for it but not the ability. It
must require originality, feeling, experience
and power of expression."
	"And do you  mean to say you have none of
these?"
	"Oh, perhaps some depth of feeling and a
little experience, but not originality, nor any
practical power to put thoughts to use."
	"I imagine you have seen more than one
love affair that would do to write up in a ro-
mance." "One cannot be in society without
seeing these things; but I have shut my eyes
when I was likely to see too much." "That
might be a good plan; everyone is not so dis-
creet, but seriously, Lady Walton, I cannot
comprehend the change in you."
	"Indeed, my friend, you surprise me; I must
interest myself in something; I am determined
not to live such a useless life; it only brings
bitterness and 'Dead Sea Apples' as its recom-
pense."
	"Bravely spoken, Lady Walton, and I will
join you when you have found a cure for
ennui."
	It was true that Lady Walton was changed.
She longed to go to the Castle and see the two
young women, and she had an idea that if Jane
Conway were like her mother she would be in-
valuable as a friend. If she had but known
that on that fateful night, the Baronet had
confided in his neice and told her of his dis-
appointment and the treachery that had
separated him from her, she might have
gathered courage to go and confide in her, now
when she felt such great need of solace. But
she did not know, and time went on. Miss
Conway had superintended all necessary
arrangements for the coming guests, and thus
time passed quickly. There was much to be
done; many of the rooms had not been used,
only occassionally for some sportsmen who had
come down from London for the shooting, and
no lady's touch had given the apartments the
appearance of home. Now the cleaning had
been thorough, and dilapidated as the old
place was inside it was sweet and wholesome
with a genuine air of home.
	A day or two beforehand (of the appointed
Friday) a lumbering old coach was driven into
the yard by a queer coachman, who seemed to
make himself quite at ease, and out came such
bundles and wraps, and finally at last a very
large old lady, with a stout cane, and more
reticules than she could manage. Miss Conway
was sent for and met her in the hall, when she
addressed her sharply: "You are Lady Anna,
I presume, Edward's daughter; you're not a
beauty though, by any means; your mother was
a rare one, golden hair and such eyes;" and
Jane could not get a chance to tell her she
was mistaken, she rattled on at such speed.
She finally succeeded in getting her up stairs,
her maid following with wraps, etc. When
she had taken off some of her outside wraps
Jane ventured to ask her if she were Sir Ed-
ward's aunt, to which she proudly replied she
was Mrs. Judith Baymore, and his father's
own sister. "Are my daughters not here yet?"


she asked. "Well, they'll be in time. Are
their rooms ready?" and as she put this ques-
tion she looked around the room into which
she had been ushered, which was scrupulously
neat, and a good hardwood fire burning on the
andirons. Seeming to recognize that the room
was comfortable, she sat down in the great arm
chair by the fire with a certain air of satisfac-
tion. "Aunt Judith," said Jane, "you mistook
me for my cousin; I am not Lady Anna; shall
send up your supper?" "Who are you, then,
to call me aunt?" "I am Sir Edward's niece,
Jane Conway." "And you are installed here
as one of the family; I was not aware of this;
how long have you been at the Castle?" "Ever
since my mother's death and burial." "Strange
he never let me know." "Did you not know of
my mother's illness and death?" "I think I
heard of her death, but never knew the par-
ticulars; she kept herself aloof from all her
family, and we never troubled about it."
	Jane turned away; Aunt Judith had opened
a wound; she could not let her go on, and in-
quired again should she send up supper?
	"Yes, Jane, and tell your cousin Anna to
come and pay her respects to her father’s aunt,
if she's not too haughty." "My cousin is not
proud, and has no such nonsense about her; she
is too innocent to have such a thought," and
away flew Jane with her own ideas distinctly
formed concerning the new comer. Before
midnight all those expected had arrived and
were generously provided for, and Jane and
Anna had talked over their relatives and passed
upon them, before retiring for the night.


