U. W. P. CLUB.

	Meeting of the U. W. P. Club at the
Parlors of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT Office Feb.
27th, 1892.  Pres. E. B. Wells in the chair.
Opened with prayer by Mrs. Phebe C. Young.
Minutes read and accepted.  Eight new names
were then unanimously sustained as members.
There were interesting letters of correspondence
read from Ellen Jakeman and L. L. Dalton ex-
pressing a deep interest in the work of the club,
and regrets for non-attendance.
	By laws having been arranged by the com-
mittee the secretary proceeded to read them as a 
whole and then in sections, but this business,
promising to consume the whole evening, was
laid upon the table with the name of N. V. Davis
added to the committee for revision.
	According to pre-arrangement of some of the
ladies the meeting then took the form of a birth-
day greeting to our President.  The members not
wishing to usurp the rights of those more closely 
allied in ties of kinship anticipated then by offer-
ing congratulations upon the 27th instead of the 
29th the natal day of our sister and dear friend and
President.
	An Illustrated volume of Geo. Elliot's poems


“Polite Society’' and a morocco bound Auto-
graphic Album were then presented to the Pres.
in behalf of members of the club. Congratulatory
speeches were made, and poems read by each
member present, expressive of tender love and
affection and true appreciation of the one each
desired to honor which were responded to in
fitting words of thanks—saying to those who all
seemed to vie with each other to pay honor
where honor is due, “Do not over estimate me,
but love me all you will, for love will yet rule the
world.”
	Delicious refreshments were served and social
chat indulged in till a late hour when all bade
adieu wishing our Pres. many happy returns of
her birthday even sixteen more. One loving
friend remarked “No wonder “Aunt Em’' remains
so young when she only has a birthday once in
four years at this rate she can live to be a
centenarian let’s hope that she may.”
