		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Report of the Relief Society Conference of
Bear Lake Stake held in the Stake Tabernacle
at Paris, Nov. 27th, 1891, Pres Julia P.
Lindsay presiding. Singing, “Lord we come 
before thee now.” etc. Prayer by Pres. Wm. 
Budge. Singing, “Let those who would be
saints indeed.”
	Pres. Julia P. Lindsay addressed the
Conference and said the Lord has said that
where a few are assembled in His name He
will be there to bless them, and He will do so
now.  
	Some branches of the Relief Society, were
represented as follows, Paris first and second
wards, Bloomington, Fish Haven, Ovid,


Montpelier and Dingle as being in good work-
ing order.
	Pres. Julia P. Lindsay was pleased with the
reports given, spoke of the importance of
attending meetings often; they had given the
Primaries a whole day for their Conference
that the children might have a chance to
develop themselves and prepare for the great
work they will be called to do, spoke of the
necessity of depending upon God for grace to
carry the work on, and humility to bring the
children up right. Said God would bless
His children, and help those who help them-
selves. Asked for the blessings of God to be
with all assembled.
	The minutes of the last Conference were
read and approved. Statistical and financial
report of the Stake Relief Society was
then read. 
	Pres. Wm. Budge spoke of the weakness
with which we have to contend, and said the
engagements of this life should not be first.
“This work and all connected with it is eternal;
it requires constant attention, and a continual
progression is necessary to a full salvation.”
Spoke of the necessity of assisting the sick
and poor; and of remembering God,if financial
surroundings were growing better, and said
that it mattered not how little means one
possessed, if it kept him from the service of
God he had too much. “We are receiving
blessings from God day by day, but are we
using them in the right way?”
	The meeting was then adjourned until 2 p.
m. Singing, “Praise God.” etc. Closing
prayer by Bishop Robert Price.

	Afternoon session opened by singing,“Arise
0 Glorious Zion.” etc. Prayer by Pres. Wm.
Budge. Singing, “We thank Thee O God
for a Prophet.” etc.
	Two other wards were then reported.
Pres. Julia P. Lindsay said she would like
all the Secretaries to send in correct reports
in good time, also spoke of improvement.
	Coun. Elizrbeth Collings bore a faithful
testimony to the truth of this work, said those
who have entered the waters of baptism should
have a testimony, and heed the teachings
given, that we may know whether we are in
the right church or not, if we heed the still,
small voice it will lead us into all truth. “The
Spirit which prompts to do right is the right
Spirit,” before she embraced the Gospel she
wonld read the scriptures, but she did not
understand them until the Spirit of God
explained all. “It is for us to know the
mysteries of the Kingdom, and many are
called but few are chosen. May we strive to
be faithful that we may have clear consciences."
	Sister Tumer bore a faithful testimony to
the truth of the Gospel, when she first heard
the Gospel she knew it was true and left all
to gather here, had never wished to go back,
the Gospel was sweeter to her than anything,
and there is nothing to live for but the Gospel;
was determined to do right; set an example to
the children and teach them to be faithful.
Testified of the blessings she had received
through faith. Said that when any one was
sick to go and pray in faith to God to heal
them, and if it was his will He would do so.
“We should hold fast to this good and great
work that we may be crowned with the faith-
ful.”
	Coun. Lizzie Hart spoke of filling the
mission of assisting the sick and poor, also of
improving now and not waiting for a better
time to come to improve the opportunities;
said when we are not in possession of the
Spirit of God all looks dark, but if we seek
for that true faith and pure Spirit all will be
bright; improve opportunities that we may be
fitted for a hard task, give attention to all
bad habits so that we can master and over-
come them, also of the strength and knowl-
edge obtaiued by attending meetings. “We
must overcome every obstacle in our path of
life, the Spirit of God teaches us to be charit-
able. We should pray for strength and
wisdom, that we may gain the prize for which
we have set out.”
	Secretary Nancy Allred said we should
trust in God for He will help us if we help
ourselves, but if we neglect our duties, we will
not have that confidence in God that we would
otherwise have. “It seem as though some-
times our labors are not appreciated. We are
not to be judged according to the actions of
others. Those who have their names enrolled
in these organizations, have a duty to perform,
and the more we attend meetings the more of
the Spirit we enjoy, and whatever is dictated
by the Spirit of God will interest us.” She
also expressed her willingness to help any
Secretary make a report.
	Sister Bonny said she had left all for the
Gospel, was thankful for hearing it and gather-
ing to Zion; her desire was to remain faithful,
she also related the trials through which she
had to pass when she first joined the Church,
but said the longer she lived the sweeter the
Gospel became to her as it makes us better
people. Asked God to help all to be faithful
that when the time comes, we could enter into
the glory of God.
	Sister Sutton also bore a faithful testimony
in regard to the truth of this work, and asked
for the prayers of all present that she might
endure to the end.
	Pres Julia P. Lindsay further addressed the
Conference urged the sisters to patronize the
“Woman’s Exponent.” “Why are we taught
to meet often if it is not essential?” Spoke of
the blessings we all enjoy from God, and
testified of the blessings she had received.
“We should remember we are the chosen
people of God, and not let ourselves be carried
away with the things of this life but remember
the source from which everything comes and
He that giveth can take away.” Spoke of
the benefits to be derived by attending meet-
ings, and of'praying for grace that we can
bear the trials. Gave some good instructions
in regard to taking care of the wheat received
in the society, and expressed a desire to do all
duties required of her.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Mid Scenes of Confussion,”  etc.
Benediction by Elder James Collings.
