TWO PRESENDIA KIMBALLS.

	THE notice we publish below is from one of
the New York papers, and is a brief sketch
of the life of the aunt (father’s sister) of the
late lamented Presendia L. Kimball, and is the
one for whom she was named. It shows how
nearly alike in many respects those two women
were, and how their lives run in the same
channel of benevolent work. Probably no
woman in this Church has prepared more of
the dead for burial than Sister Presendia L.
Kimball.—Ed.
	DEATH OF MRS. PRESENDIA KIMBALL.
	Mrs. Presendia Kimball died at her home,
27 Washington street, last evening, at the ripe
old age of 93 years, 3 months and 3 days.
Mrs. Kimball was one of the oldest residents of
Watertown and of Jefferson County. She was
a daughter of Wm. Huntington. Early in life
she was married to Joseph Kimball, one of the
first settlers in this section, and who for twenty
years was prominently identified with the
business interests of Jefferson County. Joseph
Kimball came here from the Mohawk Valley
before the war of 1812, and during the war of
1812 was an officer in the military command
at Sacket’s Harbor. After the war he was en-
engaged in business at Sacket’s Harbor. He
was a builder and contractor, and while in this
business built the barracks at Sackets, the old
courthouse in Watertown,the Jefferson County
Institute, and other structures well known to
old residents. When Mr. Kimball was mar-
ried to Presendia Huntington he settled in
Watertown, and it is a notable fact that the
place at No. 27 Washington street was the
home of both from the time they began house-
keeping until their death. Mr. Kimball died
thirty years ago. 
	Mrs. Kimball was a life-long member of the
First Presbyterian Church in Watertown, and
before age compelled her to retire from active
work, was one of the most useful and energetic
workers. Many of the older people in Water-
town remember kind offices performed by her
in years gone by. She liyed to see most of her
own generation pass away; indeed, it may be
said that she is almost the last of the early


settlers of this town. She lived to see a city
grow up around her, while the places of those
known to her in youth were filled with
strangers.
	To show how deceased had observed the
passing away of neighbors and friends it may
be mentioned that in the early days before the
village of Watertown boasted of a professional
undertaker, it was the custom of some kind
neighbor to prepare the bodies of the dead for
burial. During her lifetime Mrs. Kimball
performed this last sad duty upon the death of
more than one hundred of her neighbors in the
village of Watertown, south of the Public
Square. 
	Mrs. Kimball was the mother of five child-
ren, two of whom, Mr. J. C. Kimball and Mrs.
H. H. Kellogg, of this city, survive her. She
was a kind neighbor, a devoted mother, and an
exemplary Christian woman.


[column 1]

