		SPEECH MRS. ADA ROLLINS.

	Ladies and Gentlemen: The flag you see
before us, that graces the walls so beautifully
is called the woman’s flag of Wyoming, and
the single star well represents that there is one
state in the Union in which women have the
same rights as men, the right of franchise.
And for the benefit of those who seemingly
think it smart to pass some remarks about
woman suffrage, let them pause and consider
if their own dear mothers, sisters and sweet-
hearts too if you please, had not ought to en-
joy that boon that every Liberty-loving peo-
ple who are true Americans would wish them
to enjoy. There is something wonderfully
thrilling and pathetic in the devotion of the
woman suffrage advocates to the flag of the
one star which typifies to them the youngest
of our commonwealth, and the first true Re-
public.  It is the woman’s flag that has the
place of honor at all their public gatherings.
The stripes represent our country to which we
are most loyal with an undaunted determina-
tion to help it to realize the glorious future of
which its proud past has been the prophecy.
But of all the states we honor most, the state
which alone has dared to make women free
citizens, Wyoming.  What a wonderful object
lesson in the great struggle for human freedom
is this Lone Star flag? How can woman see it
and not be fired with enthusiasm. How can
men fail to be moved by it to that patriotism
and chivalry which would make other states
equally just and dear to woman.
	The pictures of those Ladies on either side
of the flag, are ladies who have for fifty years
labored long and earnestly for woman’s eman-
cipation, who like our fathers thought taxa-
tion without representation was not right nor
just.  The one to the right of the flag is Susan
B. Anthony, on the left is Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, these names will be handed down
from generation to generation like those of our
Revolutionary fathers who fought, bled and
died for liberty.
	Then three cheers for our flag and the state
of Wyoming.


