SPEECH OF PRES. JOS. F. SMITH.

	[Brief synopsis of remarks by Pres. Joseph F.
Smith, at a meeting in this City recently.] 
	He stated that he came to the meeting by in-
vitation, not knowing the object thereof, but was
informed that the meeting was called in the in-
terests of woman suffrage. He was in favor of
woman suffrage; and that women should enjoy all
the privileges and rights that the men enjoyed,
but he was not so ardent an advocate for women
to fill every and all of the offices which men filled,
as some others might be. He was not only will-
ing however, but desired that woman should be-
come eligible to such offices as she was fitted by
nature and ability to fill. He thought there were
some offices in civil government to which woman
was not suited by nature, and no amount of in-
telligence would adapt her thereto, for there
seemed to be offices requiring physical endurance
and exposures, exertions and strength and other
qualities, for which men were better fitted physic-
ally and mentally, than women. He wanted the
men to hold such offices, and the woman to be
promoted to such other positions and callings as
would better suit her physical conditions and
mental qualifications, and yet would place her on
an equality with man as to political, civil and
moral rights.
	He thought woman should not be deprived of
the power to acquire and hold property in her own
right, but should be placed on a par with man in
this regard. There was no reason why there
should be any discrimination between man and

[column 2]
woman in regards to property rights. Each should
be allowed to acquire and own property inde-
pendently of or jointly with each other, as suited
them best—and in that event there should be no
right of dower. 
	The woman who performed the same kind and
quality of work that a man did, should receive
therefore the same wages or pay. If a woman as
school teacher, clerk, accountant or cook ex-
celled a man in those same occupations, she
should receive superior pay, and it is a poor rule
that did not work both ways.
	He thought the women were making a mistake
in asking too much at once—not that they should
not have all that belonged to them, or of right
they should have, but, there were so many things
embraced in the woman’s right movement that
seemed formidable to many, very many men, and
also objectionable to them, that opposition to the
whole movement was the result. If the women
would confine their efforts to woman suffrage
and that alone until they got it, they would have
power in their hands to further contend for and
claim their privileges.
	There was no serious objection to their pos-
sessing the elective franchise, but most men re-
coiled at the thought of their wives, daughters,
mothers and sisters becoming policemen, sheriffs,
constables, jurors or soldiers. Woman suffrage
would meet with less opposition from men and
women too, if it were shorn of these concomi-
tants, and was presented in its more simple light.
	Congress is not the power to which the women
should look for emancipation, but the govern-
ments of the States themselves, as the State gov-
ernments had jurisdiction over the questions of
suffrage.
	He thought the women should organize their
forces, and begin systematic attacks upon one or
more of the states, or upon all of them at once,
aiming first and all the time at obtaining the elec-
tive franchise, and never quit nor faint until they
get it, then they will have the power in their own
hands to make themselves heard and heeded, and
may go on to perfection.
	The women of Utah once enjoyed the elective
franchise, and they used it wisely, and it was an
outrage that it was stricken from them, and he
hoped the day would soon come when it should
be restored to them, and if Utah ever becomes a
State, one of the first enactments her Legislature
should pass, should be an act restoring the suffrage
to woman—and making her equal to her husband 
in her right to acquire, and hold and manage her
own property.


