			IV. GENERAL TOPICS.
	a. The future possibilities for women in
newspaper and magazine work.
	b. International copyright, and the laws of 
intellectual property and commerce.
	c. What is the effect upon the individual
woman of engaging in journalism?
	d. What is the effect upon the home life of
those who engage in it?
	e. What is the best training for journalism?
Can it be taught in the schools? 
	f. The industrial and economic aspects of
the question—comparative compensation of
men and women editors, writers and business
managers.
	The preliminary duties of the World’s Con-
gress Auxiliary are to unify the work along a
given line all over the world, to stimulate
thought which shall lead to practical results,
and to arrange for the interchange of views at
the Columbian Exposition in 1893. There is
to be, in connection with the Men’s Branch of
the World’s Congress Auxiliary, a Press Con-
gress for the discussion of living themes. We
also propose conferences of press women for
more informal discussion of themes of special
interest to them as workers.
	The Illinois Woman’s Press Association with
headquarters at Chigago, has secured a com-
mittee room in the Woman’s Building, where
press women from every part of the world will
be cordially welcomed and given such assist-
ance as they require. Here informal confer-
ences will be held, and arrangements are made
for a Press Woman’s Conference in the As-
sembly Hall of the same building. The Asso-
ciation has also applied for space in the Press
Building for regular women correspondents,
where they will have the benefits of telegraphic
and telephonic communications, with all other
needful appliances.
	This, imperfectly sketched, is the work in
which we invite the press women, of the world
to cooperate. They can assist in carrying it
on in the following ways:
	1. By circulating this preliminary plan as
widely as possible, translating where necessary
that women of every tongue may become ac-
quainted with it. Send copies of papers in
which it is printed to the chairman of this
committee.
	2. Send the names of women in various
countries who would do effective work as mem-
bers of our Advisory Counsel.
	3. Study the proposed topics, suggest others
you desire to have discussed, and send names
of women you consider best qualified to take
part in the discussions.
	4. We wish a list of all weeklies and magazines
in all languages, edited or published by wo-
men. Kindly assist, in making this list com-
plete by sending us the names of all such
papers.
	5. The Press Conferences in connection with 
the World’s Congress Auxiliary will probably
occur some time in May, 1893. All women’s
Press Associations are invited to send dele-
gates. The suggested basis of representation
is one delegate for every twenty regular mem-
bers.
	All communications in regard to this depart-
ment should be addressed to Mary Allen West,
Chairman, 359 Claremont Avenue, Chicago,
U. S. A. Mrs. Nancy Hustin Banks, of the
Bureau of Publicity and Promotion, is vice-

[Column 2]
chairman, and Mrs. Mary Stewart Armstrong,
of the Elite News, Chicago, is secretary of the
committee.


