VOL. 26.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY. 1—15, 1898.		No. 15 & 16.


CONTENTS: 
	Polynesia—Emma Jenson. A Visit to Summit
Stake—Jennie. Daughters of Eve—W. D. Lawler.
U. W. P. C.—M. J. Lambert, Sec. Emma Brown
—Dacy Baker. Madame Mountford. A Wonder-
ful Manifestation—Mary H. Dalton. R. S. Re-
ports. In Memoriam. Utah Historical Society
	EDITORIAL:—The New Year 1898. A Beauti-
ful Marriage. Edit[-]rial Notes.
	POETRY:—Truths’ Warfare—Eleanor Wright.
A Twilight Reverie—Ethel B. Ferguson. Fret Not
Thyself—Lula.


TRUTHS’ WARFARE.

HOLD fast to truth: the world has need
	Of champions in the race,
Whose hearts are strong with faith and hope
	Then let us on apace.

Unfurl the standard to the breeze,
	And may its colors bright
Strike with alarm the approaching foe—
	And shed its beaming light

Across their path, arrresting them
	’Till they the motto see
That has been ours in sad defeat
	And oft in victory.

In golden letters it appears
	Emblazoned on the blue,
A symbol of its heavenly birth
	And of the sun’s bright hue.

The standard bears the stamp divine
	Of anchor, shield and dove;
The words placed under this device
	Are Hope, and Faith, and Love.

Sweet symbols of the better part
	To man’s unfolding given;
When error falls to rise no more
	They catch a glimpse of Heaven.

Press on ye champions, fail not those
	To advocate the cause 
Of freedom for humanity
	To purge the unjust laws.

Salvation is the watchword now
	To those whose souls are bound
By chains of error, [-]olding them
	Like loadstones to the ground.

With sword of spirit, shield of faith
	And God’s whole armor on;
Salvation’s helmet on the brow
	The field would soon be won.

So onward still with flag aloft;
	Fear not to meet the foe,
The victory shall be ours at last,
	And error fall with woe.
				ELEANOR WRIGHT.
Polomac Series.


MRS. ANNIE L. DIGGS has been appoint-
ed State librarian for Kansas. She will
have charge of the State law library, one
of the largest in the West, as well as the
general library.


[Column 1]
POLYNESIA.

BY EMMA JENSON.
	POLYNESIA, or the region of many is-
lands, is the name usually given, with more
or less limitation, to the numerous groups
of islands and some few single islands scat-
tered throughout the great Pacific occan
between the eastern shores of Asia and the
western shores of America. In its widest
significance the term Polynesia embraces,
besides the group of smaller islands in the
Pacific, the various islands large and small
of the Indian Archipelago in one direction
and Australia, Tasmania etc., in another
Including these and all adjacent islands the
whole region is sometimes called Oceania
and sometimes Australasia. But in more
modern times the term Polynesia is applied
only to those groups of islands lying east of
the 180 parallel of Longitude because the
inhabitants of all these groups seem to be-
long to the same branch of the human fami-
ly, being very much alike in color, character-
istics, manners, customs, language etc.
Ethnographically New Zealand should also
be classed with Polynesia. The principal
groups of Polynesia are, however, on the
Sandwich Islands, Tonga, or the Friendly
Islands, the Marquesas group and many
other scattered islands that are not grouped
together under any particular name.
	Most of these islands and especially the
largest are volcanic in their origin, and some
are coraline. The volcanic islands some of
which have peaks varying in height from
one to fourteen thousand feet are often dis-
tinguished as the high islands; they consist
of basalt and the igneous formation. The
islands of coralline formation are low and
generally small. They are destitute of any
considerable elevation. Though various in
form the high islands have many character-
istics in common. Many of them are sur-
rounded by a barrier reef ranging in dis-
tance from a few hundred yards to thirty
miles from the shore. Such reefs rise near
the surface of the water and their presence
is indicated by a ring of feathery foam
around the island. There is, however, al-
most uniformly some deep open passage by
which a ship may cross the reef and find a
sheltered harbor between the reef and the
island. The Tuamotu Islands which lie
adjacent to the Society Islands are also call-
ed the Low Archipelago, because they are
nearly all low atolls or lagoon islands.
	Atoll is a name given by the Ualdive
islanders to circular coral reefs rising above
the sea and enclosing a lagoon. These cir-
cular reefs are covered with a luxuriant
vegetation in some places, thus forming
small motus or islands some of which are
several miles long but seldom over a quarter
of a mile in width. The lagoon within
may be but a small pool, or a great basin of
placid sea thirty or forty miles in length or
breadth. Upon the inner circle of the reef
and around the margin of the lagoon is the
favorite home of the native, sheltered from
the storms of the great sea without, with
the great basin within engirdled with its
strong barriers fringed with cocoanut palms

[Column 2]
and appears the very symbol of fruitfulness
and repose.
	Various theories have been advanced in
regard to the formation of the coralline is-
lands. Coral is the work of the polyps of
which there are many different species,
each forming different varieties of coral.
The substance of coral is carbonate of lime.
It is not formed by any design of the little
creatures that build it, but is the stony
frames of these polyps that have their brief
life and die clinging where they were born,
and thus age after age by slow accretions
their dead frames build the submarine for-
ests that are rooted in unfathomed depths
and wear their coronal of verdure above the
flood. It has been proven by tests that the
coral reefs reach down into a deeper sea
than the plummet can sound.
	But the coral polyps, it is believed, cannot
live at a greater depth than one hundred
and twenty feet; hence the theory most
popular regarding coral islands is, that all
the ocean was once very shallow and that it
has slowly increased in depth, the earth
sinking down; meantime the polyps ever
building, keep their structures towering
still near the surface.
	Another theory is that these islands are
partly volcanic, partly coraline; that the
subterranean fires have lighted great
mountains near the surface of the deep, and
upon the summits of these coral polyps have
begun to build their strange and mighty
structures.
	The inhabitants of the Pacific Islands
are clearly of two distinct races; those of the
more easterly islands, or Polynesia, have
long, straight hair very glossy, and bright
copper skin, “like the American aborigi-
nes.” And on the islands which dot the
the sea from Fiji to the eastern part of Java
the natives are of quite a different type,
having large frames, black skin and crisp
hair, with more of the general characteristics
of the Negro. Again upon other islands are
found a population which is a mixture of
the two races referred to.” of the origin of
the two races nothing is know historically;
but among the many theories advanced the
one which traces the Polynesians or copper
colored back to America, and the darker
race to Asia and Africa is certainly the most
consistent and is gaining ground among a
certain school of ethnographical students.
The dialects of the copper colored race are
sufficiently alike to indicate a common ori-
gin. The darker race speak a totally differ-
ent language. The perfection to which the
languages of the Polynesians have been
brought is a marvel. Savage like as they
were and still are to a certain extent, their
dialects are remarkably rich, pleasing and
expressive, adjusted to express the nicest
distinctions in ideas. These dialects are
spoken according to the strictest rules and
the most perfect grammatical principles.
	In intellectual capacity the Polynesian is
in many respects the equal of the European.
In depth of thought and profundity of re-
search he is far inferior. But in wit, quick-
ness of perception, tenacity of memory, in-
genuity, thirst for knowledge when its val-
ue is perceived, eloquence etc., the Europ-


ean or American is hardly superior. They
have a very strong appreciation of the
humorous and are always ready for a laugh,
being in this respect totally unlike the
average Asiastic.
	That the islands of the great Pacific were
never connected with the continents seems
to be proven by the fact that very few
anmials are found upon them. There are
no large animals of any kind in Polynesia.
it is not known whether rats are indigenous
or were introduced by passing vessels.; they
are now almost incredibly numerous upon
some of these islands. In some quarters
the missionaries find it necessary to have
some one keep the rats off the table during
meals, just as we keep off the flies.
	Of food supplying plants the most im-
portant are the bread fruit tree, the cocoa-
nut palm, the banana, the taro and a
species of yam. Of the bread fruit there
are several kinds which ripen at different
seasons of the year, and so enable the
natives to subsist with very little labor.
The sugar cane is indigenous and is now
extensively cultivated on some of the larg-
er islands. Most tropical fruits are grown
on some of the islands. The banana is es-
pecially valued for the great amount of fruit
it produces. The ground which in the
course of a year would produce 33 pounds
of wheat or 100 pounds of potatoes, will
yield 4,000 pounds of bananas.
	Perhaps Samoa affords as good a sample
of the Polynesian race as any group of is-
lands in the Pacific, for the natives here
have been brought less in contact with the
civilized world than have the people on
many of the islands, consequently their
customs and habits as compared with
Europeans and Americans are quite inter-
esting and peculiar.
	The natives of Samoa are a fine race of
people physically and as fair-skinned as
the natives of Hawaii and Tonga. But
while the Tongans are compelled by law to
cover their bodies from shoulder to knee,
no such law exists in Samoa; hence the
natives on ordinary occasions confine their
clothing to their vale vale, or waist-cloth,
On Sundays, however, the men wear a
shirt and the women a sort of sash in ad-
dition to the vale vale.
(Continued)


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
A VISIT TO SUMMIT STAKE.

	MONDAY, September 20, by previous ar-
rangement with President Atwood while
attending the Relief Society conference of
the Summit Stake held at Peoa on the 7th
and 8th inst—we leave on the 7 o’clock
train for Ogden, take the Eastern for Echo
where we are met by President M. J. At-
wood and Counselor R. Pack of the Summit
Stake. Our reveries going up the lovely
valley of the Weber Water, as the native
would say, were of the most pleasant type.
We then proceed to Rock Springs, Wyom-
ing, where we arrive at 3:30 p. m. At the
depot we are cordially met by the president
of the Relief Society, the Bishop’s wife and
several others. Having been escorted to
the Bishop’s comfortable dwelling and
made to feel at home by his genial wife we
endeavor to rest ourselves. In the evening
quite a number gather there and we have
a sociable time.
	The next morning we visit the
sown and must admit our surprise at the
extent thereof and that so much thrift is
manifested on all sides. At 2 p. m. we

[Column 2]
hold a Relief Society meeting, and we must
here express our pleasure at the nice, little
meeting house that the Saints own in this
far off settlement and the good feeling
manifested among them when we take into
consideration that it is but a mining camp,
not gold mines, however, but that which
is more essential this kind of weather, coal
mines; and so few Saints compared to the
number of people. At 7 p. m. we hold
another meeting where the brethren as well
as the sisters meet together after their day’s
labor, and we have a most interesting time,
the brethren expressing themselves pleased
with the meeting and at the Saints having
come out in such goodly number.
	Wednesday 22, we take an affectionate
leave of the Saints and take the train for
Evanston where we are met by the Relief
Society president and others. We go to
the president’s home for dinner and then to
a meeting at 2 p. m.; and each time how
it makes our hearts swell with gratitude to
our Heavenly Father for His goodness to
His people, for here again is another cosy
meeting house and some good sisters. But
our experience has been in traveling among
the people that, go where you will among
the Latter-day Saints, there you will find
intelligence. We have a profitable meet-
ing, then go to Almy, the scene of that
direful devastation of some three years ago.
The saddest reflections pass through my
mind on arriving there and going through
the town. We are taken to Bishop Boun’s
home by his whole-souled wife. It is a
comfortable home situated on the side of a
hill overlooking the whole place and has
the loveliest garden, the soil having all been
carted up, placed on the rock and banked
up and the water to sprinkle with forced up
from the valley below. In that garden the
loveliest of flowers grow, also the finest
vegetables, the Bishop taking pains to ex-
plain to us the different varieties and also
presenting each of us with a bouquet which
we appreciated very much. Many times
while enjoying the fragrance of those lovely
plants in the Autumn evening we felt im-
pressed to say surely “Where there’s a will
there’s a way,’’ when one sees what can be
accomplished if people will only try. Thrift
is visible on every side in that household.
	Thursday 23, we call on several sisters in
the morning, then at 2 p. m. we hold meet-
ing again in a good meeting house. We
have an interesting time then call on some
more dear sisters, then go back to Evanston
where we are very kindly waited on for
supper at the home of the president’s
daughter after which we go with Sister
Dawson to her cosy home. We calmly set-
tled ourselves to rest thinking we were
through for that day, not so, however, for
about 8 o’clock there came about fifty of the
good Saints of Evanston to surprise us, and
it was a surprise indeed. Well we had a
most enjoyable time and we all parted feel-
ing to bless each other.
	Friday 24 we view the town and indeed
it is quite a town, then we take the train for
Echo where we hold a meeting at 2 p. m.
The Saints here are but few in number
and very much scattered but they are try-
ing to do all the good they can. They
have a good Bishop and a good Relief Soci-
ety president. After meeting we go to
Henneferville in a rain storm, where we
hold a meeting at 5:30 and have quite a
good turn out considering the weather;
they also have a good meeting house. After
meeting the Bishop of Echo and his good

[Column 3]
wife take us back to their comfortable home
two miles west of Echo.
	Saturday 25, they take us in due time to
Echo where President Cluff’s carriage
meets us to take us to Coalville. At noon
we meet with the old folks in that very
beautiful Stake house of which the Saints
of Summit Stake are so justly proud, and
the Relief Society having done so much to-
wards it; the grounds are also very nice.
Well it was old folk’s day in very deed, a
happier looking gathering could scarcely be
found. President Cluff and his genial wife
with all her aids were on the qui vive to
see what could be done to make each one
happy and comfortable. The dinner tables
looked elegant. After the program was
over the exercises closed about 5 o’clock,
we spent a pleasant evening visiting with
friends. 
	Sunday 26, we leave Coalville about noon
Sisters Cluff and Eldredge and two good
brothers accompanying us. We go ten
miles to Upton, seven miles of continuous
dug ways. We then again marvel at the
perseverance of the people, but as usual
when you get to the valley it is quite a
nice, little place. We have a very profit-
able meeting at 2 o’clock, have a goodly
number present. After meeting on our
way back we visit Bishop Clark’s Fun Hall,
the most unique place of the kind we ever
remember seeing, he having employed an
artist to paint the walls in oil on which
every conceivable design is displayed, from
the native and his wickeup to the lovely
castle; from the minutest of everything to
the greatest. It really is amazing to see
such workmanship so far up in the moun-
tains, seemingly away from everything.
The people up there seem comfortable
and when we realize while traveling among
the community how few, comparatively
speaking, owned a home previous to the
Gospel reaching them, and how the Lord
has blessed this people it makes us feel to
praise His holy name. We arrive at Coal-
ville about dark, having enjoyed our trip
very much, the mountain scenery was very
fine. We are again entertained at
President Cluff’s hospitable home and also
at Brother Eldredge’s.
	Monday 27, we visit the sick and afflicted.
We call on one poor sister who has been
afflicted with rheumatism for two years,
we pray with them then comfort and bless
them and ask the Lord to bless them. We
also visit one young sister who is very sick;
how they do appreciate our call! Would
that more made it a point to call on the sick
and comfort and bless the afflicted, for then
is the time they need consolation and in
blessing we are blest. We then repair to
a Relief Society meeting in the Stake house
at 10 o’clock, after which we comfort anoth-
er afflicted one. In the afternoon we go to
Hoytsville to a meeting at 5 o’clock and
have a very good meeting. We return to
Coalville and by invitation attend the
Y. L. M. I. A., which we enjoy very much
as it is very interestingly conducted.
	Tuesday 28, we take leave of dear friends
which is always affecting, Sisters Atwood
and Pack having proven themselves very
genial companions. There were several
other settlements we were to visit but the
season being so far advanced and conference
so near it was deemed wisdom to postpone
it until a future time. We leave Coalville
at 8:20, reach Ogden at 4;30 and arrive home
at 8 p. m. all well.
						JENNIE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A TWILIGHT REVERIE.

I’M sitting in the twilight, the sweetest hour of all
The hour when day is dying, and dusk begins to
	fall.
I gaze in thoughtful silence, on the burning em-
	bers bright,
While the shadows slowly lengthen, in the tender
	fading light.
In the glowing coals of fire fantastic figures meet
	my gaze,
And in fancy pass before me, the scenes of other
	days, 
Fair forms and faces far away, are pictured in
	the fire;
And in the hrooding calm I hear, sweet tones of
	harp and lyre,
Before me comes my mother’s face the same
	sweet, tender smile,
That cheered my drooping spirits, when we part-
	ed for awhile.
My little sister laughs again at me in childish glee,
My brothers, friends and schoolmates all, once 
	more return to me.
The little, humble cottage where I lived when
	but a boy,
All trouble was a dream to me, life’s gold held no
	alloy.
The old house is deserted now, its inmates all
	have fled.
Some are in the churchyard, sleeping, numbered
	with the dead,
Some have gone to foreign lands, ’mid strangers
	they are cast,
I often wonder if they think of happy days long
	past.
When we built our castles in the air, of futures
	fair and bright,
But time brought changes, and the castles all
	vanished from our sight
The fire is dying, day has fled strange shapes no
	more I see,
The past within my memory locked, holds all its
	charms for me.
The future dim, uncertain, calls silently from
	afar,
With faith and love for a motto, and hope for a
	guiding star.
				ETHEL B. FERGUSON.


[Column 1]
DAUGHTERS OF EVE.
	IN the oldest of all histories—the Bible—
woman stands out prominently in the pro-
cession of characters, and Sarah, Ruth,
Esther, Delilah and the Marys’ are the in-
carnations of all the varied passions that
move the world. The women of the
present time are only as yet making their
history. The mother of Washington and
the heroines of Lexington will be better re-
membered in the centuries to come than
they are now. It was a woman that put
heart into the weary soldiers with the
grandest war song ever written. It was a
woman’s taste in bunting that gave us the
glorious stars and stripes, and it was for
women, mothers, wives, sisters and sweet-
hearts that those same soldiers sang, and
singing died. I believe that intelligence
and a sense of freedom and equality with
men does not unfit a woman for the cares of
home and children; rather that contact with
the world of thought and action widens her
sympathies and strengthens her judgment.
And her influence with her sons and daugh-
ters as they grow up is ten fold greater than
that of the old-fashioned mother. She may
be less confiding, less clinging, but more
knowing. Let us educate our daughters
not only to love, honor and cherish their
husbands but to have other aims in life

[Column 2]
than the timid, yielding, old-fashioned
mother to whom a frown was as a blow,
and a cross word saddened her for a week.
Marriage need not necessarily be a failure.
Like every high condition it is difficult of
attainment; but it is so fine in its perfection
that one success compensates for many non-
successes. A woman’s soul and mind must
reach out and be an inspiration to her hus-
band. Learn something of his affairs, in-
terest yourself in his work. What you
don’t possess cultivate. A husband soon
ceases to care very much about a wife who
is mentally his inferior. Thackeray says,
“Love is immeasurably above all ambition
—more precious than wealth, more noble
than name. He knows not life who knows
not that; he hath not felt the slightest
faculty of the soul who hath not enjoyed
it.” while the new woman asks, “Is love
alone worth living for—worth dying for?”
It is the only satisfying good we can grasp
among the shifting shadows of our brief
existence. In its various phases and dffer-
ent workings is it after all the brightest
radiance known in the struggling darkness
of our lives? And does love always satis-
fy? Men find their pay for living in vari-
ous ways. Hope may lie to them, but
they always believe her, nevertheless. The
better things to come of which she tells all
men become indeed the substance of the
thing desired; that is expectation is a con-
stant joy and inspiration. The pay for
this day’s toil is the reward which is ex-
pected tomorrow. That reward may never
come but the hope remains, and so long as
that remains, and so long as that lives it
pays them to live that they may make
money and command the power that money
brings.
	If a truth it is that “man’s love is of his
life a thing apart,” why should it be “wo-
man’s whole existence?” To what an
enormous toil and sacrifice the love and pur-
suit of money urge a great multitude of
men until they become so absorbed in the
exciting struggle as to almost forget the
things that were once so dear to them; or at
least forget to give expression to words or
acts that mean so much to our own, given
us to be good to. Oftentimes they love
dearly, yet live a stingy, miserly life in re-
gard to their richest inward treasures, when
a few words or deeds expressive of this
love would make them both so much hap-
pier. And some women are so weak, so
helpless, so self-sacrificing, requiring a
strong and steady arm to lean upon. It is
very difficult for either man or woman to go
on believing in a love that never takes heed
for the object loved. The greatest heroism
I have ever found in human nature has
been in the lives of women. The man who
risks his life to rescue some drowning creat-
ure is not so brave as many a wife who en-
dures neglect, indifference and even disloy-
alty from one who has sworn to be her pro-
tector; and sits through long, lonely eve-
nings at home, looks alluring temptation in
the eyes and turns away, carrying a smil-
ing face to the world. The physical pain,
the heart-hunger, the lonely hours that
make half the life of the average woman
would drive the average man to the insane
asylum before he reached middle age. How
much we might make of our family life if
we only would, of our social intercourse, of
our friendships. How many kind words
we could speak, how many hearts make
glad.
				W. D. LAWLER.


U. W. P. C.

	THE ladies of the U. W. P. C. met at
Dr. R. B. Pratt’s parlors Dec. 30, 1897, the
president Dr. R. B. Pratt presiding. Mrs
Mary A. Freeze opened the evening’s pro-
gram with prayer. Roll call was responded
to with maxims of Confucius. Minutes of
the Thanksgiving meeting were read and
approved. Mrs E. B. Wells moved that
each member furnish a plate, cup and
saucer and spoon for club use; carried.
	Mrs. Ella Hyde gave a very creditable
paper on the subject of Confucius, followed
by remarks by the members thereupon.
	A paper by Mrs. M. A. Freeze on
Martin Luther met with high appreciation.
	An historic paper on Polynesia by Mrs.
Emma Jenson was replete with interest
and valuable instruction. It was supple-
mented with questions and remarks by the
members and followed by “Hawaii” by
Mrs- Mary J. Lambert.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt gave a very complete
paper on Mongolians, teeming with interest
and information. Mrs. Emma Jenson was
admitted as a member. Adjourned for one
month. Benediction by Mrs. Maria Francis.
	Exotic plants and oriental lights added
attraction to the evening. A dainty lunch
was served in harmony with the entertain-
ment while quaint and precious ornaments,
valuable table ware, mother of pearl, shells
and other articles representative of
Oriental customs were exhibited, giving in
all a most delightful evening.
			M. J. LAMBERT, Sec.
PROGRAM FOR JAN. 31, 1898.
	Sentiments from Goethe. Music by Prof.
McClellan. A brief sketch of Ger-
many by Ruth M. Fox. Ger-
man song by Camilla C. Cobb. Notable
men of Germany by Rebecca H. Doolan.
Recitation in German Mrs. Belle W. Bun-
nell. Notable women of Germany by Hat-
tie Harker. Music mandolin and guitar,
Mrs. Bunnell and Master Mark Bunnell.
The club will meet by invitation at Mrs.
Bunnell’s, 126 1st Street.


MISS SUSAN DE FOREST DAY has applied
for a sailing master’s license and will prob-
ably receive it. She owns the steam yacht
Scythian, on which she lives most of the
time, and she is said to be well up in tech-
nical acquirements, to say nothing of her
undoubted practical experience. A license
was refused the other day to Lady Bruden-
el Bruce in England, on the ground that a
woman could not legally be a “master,”
even of a yacht belonging to herself. The
difference of opinion in America is well
shown in the words of the late Secretary
Folger. The New York Tribune says:
“Secretary Folger’s directions to the local
inspectors on this point stand out in pleas-
ing contrast to the obstinate conservatism
which has just been exhibited in England.
His orders were, ‘Let the local inspectors,
putting behind them all thought of her sex,
without antagonism and without partiality
make diligent inquiry as to her character, 
carefully examine her and the proofs she
offers, and if they are satisfied that her
capacity, her experience, her habits of life
and character warrant a belief that she can
be safely entrusted with the duties and re-
sponsibilities of a master of a steam vessel,
let them grant her a license according to
Section 4,439.’ ”			Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms; one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 1, & 15 1898.


[Column 1]
THE NEW YEAR 1898.

	WE hope and trust it is not too late for
the “Exponent” to send a New Year’s
Greeting to all its patrons and readers, and
to wish a prosperous as well as a happy
new year to all who may chance to see or
become interested in its welfare and well-
being. And most truly do we wish that
this year now fairly begun may be full of
joy and promise of good to Utah and to the
country of which Utah is a part.
	That prosperity may increase and health
and happiness abound and everything that
will tend to the best interests of the people
in these mountain vales, is most sincerely
to be hoped for. Surely the hand of the
Lord has been wisely manifest in the past
and the blessings that tend to build up a
great commonwealth have been vouchsafed
in rich abundance, the industry and dili-
gence of the laborer has been well rewarded
and there is no reason for any to complain,
comparatively speaking.
	This people did not come into these val-
leys with the expectation of great wealth,
on the contrary they came from religious
motives, and that they might have a safe
abiding place for themselves and those who
desired to gather with them to build up
Zion, and endeavor to keep the command-
ments of God. And year after year their
numbers and possessions have increased;
they have extended their borders and built
up towns and cities, temples and institu-
tions of learning, and made the waste
places beautiful, and the land a delight to
all, and the Lord has been their shield and
guide and protector, and in worshiping
Him has been their safety.
	Men and women alike are free and equal
under the laws of the new state, and for
this blessing we should thank our Father
in heaven, that there is no oppression, and
that we enjoy privileges for which others
have been striving in older states for half a
century in vain.
	Throughout Utah at the present time
there is no real poverty, the cry of the
poor is not heard, wherever there are any
who are needy from any cause whatever,
there is also plenty of food and raiment if
their wants are made known. The system
of looking after the poor established by the
leaders of this people according to the order
of the Church is such as recommends itself
to all who have examined into its practical
methods and application, for it reaches all
cases.
	We have great reason to rejoice that we
have not suffered from famine or pestilence

[Column 2]
or scourges of various kinds as many states
have and for these and many other things
we should be exceedingly grateful. But in
many things as a people there is great room
for improvement nevertheless, and for this
we should strive that we may grow better
as well as wiser, for while knowledge of
various kinds is on the increase let us not
forget the wise old saying “Knowledge
puffeth up but wisdom edifieth.” There
may be great danger unless special care is
taken that the learning of the world with-
out humility and faith in God will lead
astray, and men will trust to science and to
the skill and ingenuity of their fellow-men
instead of acknowledging God who is the
great Author of all and by whose power
and divine inspiration all things are revealed
whether they be new or old. He alone
holds the keys of life and death and the
Scriptures say He is angry with none save
those who will not acknowledge Him in all
things.
	Therefore it behooves us all to serve Him
and keep His laws and commandments, that
we may be partakers of the promises He has
given to the faithful; and with all diligence
labor to establish righteousness and peace,
and the salvation of the living and of the
dead. The millenium cannot come until
there is a people ready for it, and that we
may be instrumental in bringing about the
time when peace shall reign instead of war
and wickedness and bloodshed, all who love
purity and holiness should not only pray
but work most earnestly.


A BEAUTIFUL MARRIAGE.

	MR. HENRY F. FERNSTROM and Miss
Pearl Russell were married on Thursday,
Jan. 4, 1898 at one p. m. in the Salt Lake
Temple by Bishop John R. Winder. Both
bride and bridegroom are quite young and a
very handsome couple. The young man is
the son of the City Councilman, F. S. Fern-
strom, and the girl is the daughter of the
late Robert Russell and his wife, Myra
Young Russell. Miss Pearl Russell is the
granddaughter of the late Joseph Young,
President of the Seventies.
	A few relatives and friends assembled at
the residence of the bride’s mother where a
fine and delicious dinner was served and
congratulations were tendered the happy
young people. The bridegroom expects to
leave on a mission to Scandinavia on the
22nd inst. The “Exponent” tenders
hearty and sincere congratulations and every
good wish for future happiness.

‘There’s a bli s beyond all that the minstrel has
		told,
	When two that are linked in one heavenly tie,
With heart never changing and brow never cold,
	Love on thro’ all ills and love on till they die.
One hour of a passion so sacred is worth
	Whole ages of heartless and wandering bliss;
And oh! if there be an Elysium on earth,
	It is this—it is this.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE had the pleasure of attending the
Relief Society conference of Utah Stake
held at Provo on Friday Jan. 13, 1898,
Mrs. Mary John presiding. Although the
weather was severe there was a good at-
tendance some of the sisters having come
from a distance; the reports were very good.
Presidents Edward Partridge and David John

[Column 2]
addressed the conference in the afternoon.
The silk industry was one of the principal
subjects dwelt upon by several of the speak-
ers. Sister B. J. Simons gave some inter-
esting reminiscences of the days of Kirt-
land and the Prophet Joseph, with whom
she had been personally acquainted.
	MADAME LYDIA MAMREOFF VON FIN-
KLESTIEN MOUNTFORD visited Salt Lake
City for a few days during the present
month and while here called on some of the
friends with whom she had become ac-
quainted during her sojourn here before
going to California. The Madame is favor-
ably impressed with Utah and its people,
especially those who came here from re-
ligious motives; she had frequent opportuni-
ties of defending our people while in Cali-
fornia and did not hesitate to tell the truth.
Madame Mountford is a most remarkable
woman; her wonderful personality is par-
ticularly striking; in conversation she is
brilliant, versatile and scholarly. She
makes friends immediately with those to
whom she is attracted. Madame Mountford
addressed the large congregation in the
Tabernacle on Sunday afternoon January
8, the substance of her remarks are given
in another part of this paper. She is fami-
liar with the Scriptures as also with the
land of Palestine and the regions round
about where the Savior and His Apostles
traveled and preached the truths of the Gos-
pel. Madame Mountford bade good bye to
Salt Lake City and her friends here on
Tuesday evening and left for Toronto
where she will remain a short time, then
go on to New York and will probably sail
for Europe in April, from whence she will
return to her home in Jerusalem. She
does not expect to visit America again in
this century.
	THE new Club House of the Ladies
Literary, was formally opened to its mem-
bers and invited guests on Friday, January
7, 1898—twenty-one years from its organ-
ization. It was a glad day for the Club,
and indeed all club women should rejoice
when such material progress is made, for
these things all help and give a permanent
significance to woman’s advancement.
There is ever an inspiration in the home
and there will doubtless be in the home of
the club; much can be done in various
ways that it was exceedingly difficult to do
when the club was not so well located. Mrs.
W. A. Nelden presided in a very dignified
manner, Mrs. Arthur Brown gave the re-
port of the building committee, after which
she presented the House and grounds to
the club in a very graceful speech. Mrs.
Nelden thanked the committee in behalf of
the club in an appropriate way. Mrs. Gil-
christ read a paper on the history of the
club in the past. Mrs. Vollmer sang two
German ballads, and Mrs Royle, who is
styled the “Mother of the Club,” read a
paper entitled “The Life of the Club.”
Georgia Snow Carlton who opened her
home for the first meeting of the club made
a few impromptu remarks and Mrs. Plum-
mer sang “Winken, Blinken and Nod,”
Mrs. Inglehart read some poems of Paul
Lawrence Dunbar (negro dialect) in the
dialect, which every one enjoyed. Several
gifts of value were received, a collection of
valuable books from Mrs. Hamilton, a
piano from Mrs. Bamberger, dancing floor
finish from Mr. Nelden, beautiful vase and
carnations from Bishop Elias Morris, and
other things of value. The hall was beauti-


fully decorated as also the tea-room down
stairs. The guests and members were
served with Russian tea and dainty wafers,
beautiful girls flitted here and there among
the flowers and plants handling the delicate
china.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL
REPORTS.

	THE Secretary of each Stake organizations
of the Relief Society will please send statis-
tical and financial report of her respective
Stake for the year 1897 as soon as possible
the General Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Templeton, Salt Lake City. Branches of
the Relief Society not included in any of
the Stakes of Zion will also send annual
reports so that the secretary may be able to
prepare a complete and correct report of the
Society in good time for the April con-
ference.
			E. B. Wells, Secretary.


EMMA BROWN.

To The Woman's Exponent:
	As one of our most esteemed and beloved
sisters, Emma Brown, passed to the great
beyond on the 8th of last month, Dec. 1897,
it was thought a few lines concerning her
life would be acceptable to you, and trust
you will allow this space in your valuable
little paper so her many friends may read it.
She has taken your paper for many years
and has always been one of its best friends.
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.
	Emma Brown, daughter of Lorena and
Ethan Barrows was born in Nauvoo, Ill.,
Oct. 1, 1843. She lived in that state until
1850 when she emigrated to Utah with the
Evans company, locating in Salt Lake City.
Here eight years later she was married to 
Pioneer George W. Brown, President Young
performing the ceremony. After living in
various places they at last settled in
Charleston in 1866, where she lived at the
time of her death.
	On Feb. 28, 1874, Sister Brown was ap-
pointed president of the Charleston ward
Relief Society which position she was very
competent to fill. After attending to her
duties for over five years, Sep. 3, 1879, she
was chosen and set apart to be president of
the Relief Society of Wasatch Stake. She
filled this position up to the time of her
death. In this capacity she has visited
every settlement in this Stake of Zion,
always being welcomed with joy. Her in-
fluence for good was penetrating and last-
ing. She has filled her earthly mission,
and we feel that our loss is heaven’s gain.
No one has yet been appointed to fill her
place. She has fought the good fight and
remained faithful to the end.
	For some years Sister Brown has been
troubled with heart failure, and later with
an internal cancer. These complaints were
the cause of her death. She suffered great-
ly and passed away pleading to die in peace.
No blot or stain could be found on her
character, and her body will rest in peace
until called forth on the morning of the
first resurrection. She leaves many rela-
tives and a host of friends to mourn her
loss. 
	Your sister in the Gospel,
				DACY BAKER.
Charleston, Jan. 4, 1898.


[Column 1]
MADAME VON FINKELSTEIN
MOUNTFORD.

ADDRESS ON THE HOLY LAND
(In the Tabernacle.)

	Elder Charles W. Penrose introduced
Madame Mountford as the speaker of the
afternoon. The lady in beginning, ex-
pressed her gratitude at being privileged to
address her brethren and sisters in Jesus
Christ, in this Zion of the Western Hemis-
phere. She said she would speak upon the
land of her nativity—Jerusalem—the Holy
Land, the land in which the ancient Phar-
isees traveled, promulgating the words of
the Father, as a preparatory work to the
building up of the kingdom of God.
	As a text Madame Mountford recited the
19th chapter of Luke beginning at the 11th
verse. The Bible, said the speaker, did
not speak in detail; it gave here a link and
there a link, and these links had to be
bound together in wisdom, in order that the
proper interpretation might be put upon
that which was therein written.
	After citing the passages referred to,
Madame Mountford reverted to the 23 chap-
ter of Luke beginning at the 22nd verse and
dwelt briefly on the passages there occur-
ing.
	Taking up a study of the land of Pales-
tine, the speaker paid a tribute to the Turk-
ish empire and the Mohammedans, who,
she said, had kept in tact the political con-
ditions of that land as they were in the
days of the Savior. Had the European
powers gained control of that section of
country it would have been a land of mills
and factories, rather than a quiet peaceful
valley such as it now was. God the Father,
said the speaker, had so preserved the Holy
Land, in order that His Zion might be
built, that the land of the ancient Apostles
might retain its purity and holiness as in
days of old.
	Madame Mountford referred to the condi-
tions existing in the Holy Land and com-
pared them with conditions in America.
The same crude means of transportation in
vogue in Palestine anciently were in evi-
dence when the speaker was a child, but
since then a change had taken place and
facilities in every direction had become
more modernized. The parable of the
talents was likened by the speaker unto the
trust and confidence reposed in servants by
the people of the Holy Land. To each man
or woman according to their respective abil
ities, there was meted out a certain trust,
and that was his portion to look after and
care for in his master’s household. So it
was with the Father, said the speaker. He
gave unto one a certain talent and unto an-
other a different one, and from each ex-
pected a true stewardship of the trusts re-
posed in them.
	Referring to the crucifixon of Christ be-
tween two thieves and the remark of one,
“Lord remember me when Thou comest
into Thy kingdom,” coupled with the an-
swer of Jesus thereto, the speaker cited the
confidence which the thief had in the Savior.
No wonder, said she, that the Savior an-
swered, “This day shalt thou be with me
in Paradise.” The condemned man had
faith in the mission of Jesus. He knew
whom He was, and therefore showed al-
legiance unto Him, in the remark which he
made and to which he received such a satis-
factory answer.

[Column 2]
	The methods of the Arabs in preserving
their talents was referred to, and the con-
gregation was urged to take advantage of
the talents given unto them, that the ex-
action which the Father would make of
them would be fully in evidence in return
for the mercies bestowed.
	Madame Mountford regretted the tenden-
cy of humankind to forget the parables of
the Savior; to lay them aside and apply no
special significance to them. She spoke of
the great evil attending the seeking after
worldly wealth, and paid a tribute to the
Mormon people in founding a common-
wealth, such as they had built up in the
fear and admonition of the Lord. Such a
feature was laudable, and the building of
houses of worship and beautiful temples
showed that the people were earnest in the
allegiance to their God.
	Concluding, the speaker bade the people
of Utah and Salt Lake City a fond farewell.
She was enroute to her far eastern home in
Jerusalem and in her departure from this
section, she felt to thank the Latter-day
Saints for their many kindnesses and as-
sured them that they would never be for-
gotten. She said she knew President
Woodruff to be a man of God, full of humili-
ty and meekness, and felt that the people
could do no better than revere and honor
him.
	The choir sang the anthem “Hallelujah.”
Benediction was pronounced by Elder C
W. Penrose.


A WONDERFUL MANIFESTATIOM.

To Our Beloved Exponent:
	DEAR SISTERS:—Thinking perhaps a
few lines from a mother in Israel can find
space in your valuable paper, I write you
concerning the sickness of Sister Mary
Holmes Dalton which she was called
to pass through, wherein she came near the
portals of death, and only through the
blessing of God was her life spared.
	She was taken sick on Friday Oct. 1,
1897, and on Sunday morning the 3rd their
baby boy came to their home. The moth-
er’s dangerous condition and the very deli-
cate and tiny figure looking so frail, brought
sadness and the greatest anxiety to the
hearts of those who were laboring to bring
comfort and relief to the suffering.
	On Monday night she saw many strange
scenes and talked a great deal of a brother
who was, and is now, laboring in Mississip-
pi as a missionary, preaching the Gospel of
our Savior to a benighted world.
	She says: “I was very happy, more hap-
py than words can express, and it seemed
that I was enrapted in something very
heavenly and that my brother William was
with me and that we were rejoicing because
we had brought happiness to a great many
people, but in what way was not shown to
me. 
	“This strange, happy feeling continued
with me, though at the same time I was
suffering severe pain. On Tuesday the 4th
the Elders and all present were united in 
prayer. About 1 o’clock p. m. I desired
to be alone, thinking perhaps I would be
able to sleep as I had become more free
from pain, and had not slept any since tak-
ing sick. I was immediately left alone ex-
cepting my husband who laid down on the
bed beside me. He had laid there but a
few minutes when I realized that I was dy-
ing. I lay several minutes thinking of my


[Column 1]
family and of leaving my three little boys,
and many scenes passed through my mind.
	“I spoke to my husband and told him I
desired to be prayed for as I was dying and
wished to be given up into the hands of my
Heavenly Father that He might do with
me as He would. The Elders, my hus-
band and my sister, Mrs. Robison, came in
and each one prayed in turn, dedicating me
to the Heavenly Father and asking His will
to be done not ours.
	“After this I seemed to have no desire to
live. I told my husband many things un-
til it seemed I could talk no longer, my
breath being so short and my strength gone.
I felt that I would very soon clasp hands
with my dear mother and sister who had
a number of years before left us, to join 
many other loved ones in the spirit world.
Though I did not see them I felt that they
were with me.
	“I here remembered a saying that I once
heard in a sermon delivered by President
Joseph F. Smith in the Logan Temple on
fast day. I will relate it here before going
farther. He was preaching to the young,
those who had come for the purpose of get-
ting married. He told them if they could
come to the Temple prepared to labor there
one week at least so that they would be
able to remember those things which were
so necessary for them to remember, as go-
ing through one day they would be apt to
forget many things, and he showed them
how terrible they would feel if they should
die and come to the veil and their loved
ones would be there to take them through
and they had forgotten everything that had
been taught them in the holy Temple, and
would not be able to go farther on account
of their forgetfulness or unworthiness.
	These sayings came to me and I wonder-
ed if I would be in this condition, when I
began to pray my Heavenly Father to help
me to remember all that had been taught.
While thus praying it was made known to
me that if I desired I could return, or I
could go on just as I wished. I could see
at once that by returning, if I remained
faithful, I would have greater blessings
than if I departed this life. I also per-
ceived that there would be suffering and
great trials to be borne. 
	When I looked back and thought of re-
turning it seemed that I could not endure
the thought, it looked so dark and gloomy
and I felt a desire to go on. It was then
shown to me the great amount of work to
be done and the few laborers there were to
do this work.
	It was a wonderful scene; I decided at
once to return. I had no sooner made up
my mind to return than it seemed that I
was caught up, as it were, and oh! such a
glorious, heavenly feeling as came over me
it is impossible to describe. I knew I had
done right by returning, yet I also felt that
those loved ones on the other side would
have been glad to have welcomed me home
to them.
	“I turned at that moment and told those
present that I should live. I began to im-
prove from that very moment and today,
December 10, I am doing a great
deal of my work; though I am not well I
feel that I will soon be back to my natural
strength again, for which I am very thank-
ful.
	“I know and feel to bear my testimony to
you that it was only through the blessings
of my Heavenly Father that my life was
spared and that I am now living. I also

[Column 2]
bear my testimony to the truth of what I
have written, and I pray that it may be of
benefit to all those who read it as this is the
object for which it is written.
	“I know that what I witnessed and all
that passed before my view was from God,
and I feel very desirous to spend all my
time and all that the Lord has given me to
help accomplish this work that I saw, and I
know that it was the work of God and that
it must be accomplished though the labor-
ers are few.
	“Our darling baby was called home on
the 10th inst., the Heavenly Father gave
him to us, he came, took a body and re-
turned.
	“I pray that we may all stand firm to the
truth and help to roll on this mighty work,
which is ever the prayer of
		“Your sister in the Gospel,
				“MARY H. DALTON.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS

 BOX ELDER STAKE.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle in Brigham City on Dec. 14,
1897, President Olivia Widerborg presid-
ing. Opened by singing “Now let us re-
joice in the day of salvation.” Prayer by
Counselor Zella Reese. Singing “Glorious
things are sung of Zion.” Roll called,
minutes read and accepted.
	President Olivia Widerborg made opening
remarks. She said: “We are but a few
present but I pray our Father to bless us
today and help us in the future, that we
may live as becomes Latter-day Saints.”
	President Mary Watkins of the 4th ward
said: “I have always been a great one to
go to meeting through my life; I have seen
many ups and downs in my life but never
once have seen a time that I wished to turn
away from the Gospel. I have always had
a testimony and that has been a great help
to me, it has grown right up with me.”
	Sister Theone Mickelsen, president
of the Scandinavian association said: I feel
thankful that I have my name in the king-
dom of Christ. May we always have a de-
sire to do our duty.”
	Counselor Mary E. Wright said: “I feel
thankful to see people put away little,
mean feelings and look at themselves, if
each one of us will do this we will be in the
right path. We should never neglect to
call upon our Father in heaven when all is
well with us, then we will have more per-
fect faith when we are in trouble.”
	President Susannah T. Booth of the 1st
ward said: “We all have to answer for our
own faults. Before we were organized we
seemed to be strangers, but being united in
this Society we have begotten a love for
each other.”
	Secretary Annie Wixom said: “I think
the nearer we live to God, the more we en-
joy the spirit of trust and confidence in
Him.”
	President Mary Jansen of the 3rd ward
said: “If we are not living better than
other people the Lord cannot bless us. Let
us be humble and keep near the Lord,
then we are on safe ground.”
	President Christine Jensen of Mantua
said: “We have had several sad deaths in
our little valley of late, several sisters and
two men.” Related a dream of one sister,
who before her husband returned from his
mission was told that he would remain

[Column 2]
home but a short time and then be called on
another mission, which proved to be a final
call.
	Sister Widerborg invited all present to
stay and take luncheon in the vestry. Sing-
ing “Do what is right.” Benediction by
Emelia D. Madsen.
	AFTERNOON SESSION- Singing “How
great the joy of the promised.” Prayer by
Counselor Charles Kelley. Singing “O say
what is truth.”
	President Rebecca Thorne of Three
Mile Creek said: We are trying to do and
get along the best we can under the circum-
stances. I pray we may be able to perform
faithfully the duties devolving upon us.
	Counselor Mary Harding of Willard,
said: “We have had quite a little sickness
and some yet exists through the lack of
faith, we should be careful and wise. I
consider that I need to have the Spirit of
God in politics just as well as in other
duties.”
	Secretary Sadie Hansen from Beaver
Dam, said: “We have with the help of the
brethren put up a granary this fall that
will hold two thousand bushels of wheat,
and put fifty bushels into it.”
	President Charlotte Boden of the 2nd
ward, said: “ I feel weak and often feel that
I do not come up to my ideal. I feel
thankful to be numbered one with yon.” 
	A sister from Bear River City, said there
was peace and unity among the sisters.
	Counselor Mary Grant of Huntsville,
said: “When I saw the Prophet Joseph I
knew he was a true prophet. I was but a
little child when father told mother that the
prophet was killed, they both wept, I was
ashamed to let them see me cry so I went
out doors and cried to the Lord, ‘O Lord
what shall we do when we have no pro-
phet?’ and it came as plain as if some one
had said it, ‘We can raise up another as
well as this one,’ and so the Lord did.”
	Counselor Zella Reese said: “We need the
Spirit of God in our every day lives, we
need to be united and set a proper example
before our children for the adversary is
abroad.”
	President Widerborg said: “There is a
great responsibility placed upon us, are we
today as careful as we ought to be in our
acts and in our words? I feel so anxious
that you and I should serve the Lord with
earnest hearts, never speak lightly of the
principles of the Gospel, let us never help
the adversary. Let every effort of our
hearts be to build up faith. In your meet-
ings do not allude to those who have receiv-
ed help, let the treasurer keep a correct ac-
count of any one who is in need, but never
allude to it. Let us do our duty and never
speak one word against one another or those
placed over us. You remember Sister
Bowring died three months ago, Sister Eu-
genia S. Pierce has promised to take her
place.” Here it was moved and seconded
that Sister Eugenia S. Pierce act as assist-
ant secretary of the Relief Society of the
Stake of Box Elder, the vote was unani-
mous.
	President Rudger Clawson said: “I have
listened with great interest to the reports
and testimonies this afternoon. When our
spirits came into the world there was a pur-
pose in it, there is something for us to do.
Wo always need to draw near unto the
Lord so when sickness comes into our
homes we may have faith; we ought not to
be alarmed but calm, that we may exercise
faith, and when the sick are healed give the


[Column 1]
Lord the glory, the time will come when it
will be an extremely dangerous thing to
trust in the hand of flesh. May you be
blest in every good work and deed, I ask it
in the name of Jesus. Amen.
	Counselor Charles Keeley referred to
deaths within the last six months, said:
“Mothers in Israel and the Relief Society
may God bless you in your labors of love,
and may you in very truth be a Relief Soci-
ety.”
	Sister Eugenia S. Pierce was then set
apart to act as assistant secretary by Presi-
dents Clawson and Keeley. Singing “Our
God we raise to Thee.” Benediction by
Bishop A. Janson. Adjourned for three
months.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN Cor. Sec.
ALBERTA, CANADA. 
	THE Relief Society met in conference in
the Cardston Assembly Hall, Stake Presi-
dent Mary L. Woolf presiding.  Opened by
singing “Come all ye sons of Zion.” Pray-
er by Elder Marsden. Singing “Redeemer
of Israel.” Roll was called, each member
responding with a sentiment on faith, min-
utes of the previous conference were read
and approved.
	President Mary J. Woolf made opening
remarks. She felt grateful that our worthy
president, Zina D. H. Young, was present,
that we had the privilege of beholding her
dear face once more, and felt it a blessing
to come to meeting and partake of the holy
influence that is with us and which we
should seek for in our homes to assist us
with our many labors. Felt thankful that
we were progressing and growing in good
works and prayed the Spirit of God would
permeate every heart today.
	Counselor Rhoda Hinman felt it a privi-
lege to bear her testimony and said we
should live every day as though it were our
last. She showed the necessity of reading
good books and storing our minds with
knowledge, and spoke of her trials while in
Nauvoo and of her association with Presi-
dent Zina D. H. Young, said it made us
appreciate the peace we are surrounded
with at the present time.
	Counselor Jane Hinman felt that in de-
pending on our Heavenly Father for bless-
ings we were sure of them, and felt grate-
ful for the bounteous harvest, felt that
through fasting and prayer the Lord had
rewarded us with a good harvest which
would enable us to get out of debt She
exhorted us all to be cheerful in our home
with our loved ones and felt it was an
era for women that would help us to keep
pace with the times and teach our children
wisely.
	The congregation sang “O My Father.”
President Zina D. H. Young felt that she
had been edified in listening to the remarks
made and felt they were words of inspira-
tion. Referred to Joseph Smith’s counsel
at the organization of the Relief Society,
said that the sisters did not realize the mag -
nitude of the work then begun, and that he
had now turned the key for women. Urged
all to be good and kind and bear their trials
patiently, trust in God, ask Him for strength
in faith and humility and never be guilty of
the sin of ingratitude. This land is a
blessed land and God’s Spirit is with the
people here, He is merciful to us all, it is
easier to raise children here where evil is
not around us than it is in some places, pray-
ed God to preserve us, that the land maybe
kept pure and never be polluted, and closed

[Column 2]
by asking God’s blessing upon all in her
sweet, motherly way.
	Elder C. O. Card felt it a blessing to
have wives and mothers who can testify to
the things of the kingdom and instil good
principles into the hearts of the children,
they are valuable mothers. It is our call-
ing to fulfill any mission placed upon us,
to impress upon the minds of our sons that
the Priesthood emanates from heaven.
	Elder Henry L. Hinman said he was in-
terested in everything pertaining to God’s
work, that was the reason he was there.
Urged all to seek the rich gift of wisdom,
take time to read good books and adorn our
minds which sheds faith, that bright lustre,
to all around. Our children are our heri-
tage in the world to come, they will profit
by the lustre in our minds and we can ac-
quire this by complying with the require-
ments of the Gospel, seek for the gifts that
will be most beneficial. Spoke of the
glorious Millenium, said much depends up-
on the course we take in this life, and pray-
ed God to bless all and in an especial man-
ner our beloved Sister Young.
	Sister Zina Y. Card, president of the Y.
L. M. I. A., urged all to step forth in the
dignity and magnitude of our calling and
fill the place, and not disappoint the Pro-
phet Joseph who turned the key and open-
ed wide the door for women. Said let us
live so that our names will live after we are
gone, and gain the riches of eternity the
deeds of kindness are remembered and not
the wealth we possess. Prayed God to
bless her aged mother that she might come
again.
	President Mary Woolf made a few closing
remarks urging the sisters to take the “Wo-
man’s Exponent,” and prayed the Lord to
bless and aid the sisters in their labors
The officers of the Relief Society over all
the world were sustained, also the Stake
officers. Conference adjourned by singing
“O ye mountains high.” Benediction by
Elder J. Anderson.
		MARY L. WOOLF, Pres.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Mrs Mary An Fullmer, widow of the late J. S.
Fullmer died at the residence of her daughter in
Mary's Vale, November 28 1897. She was born in
Nas[-]ville. Tenn. in 1815 and married John S Full-
mer in 1836 and went with her husb[-]nd to Nau-
voo in 1840, and was baptized in o the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the same year.
She endured the persecutions with the rest of he
Saints and was intimately acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph and his [-]rother Hyrum and
mourned their martyrdom with the rest o[-] her
brethren an sisters. She came wi h her hu[-]band
and children to Salt Lake Ci y n Oct. 6, 1848,
and passed through all the hardships and [-]riva-
[-]ions of a pioneer wom n of Utah.
	She was pat ent through all a[-]d kept her
covenants faithfully to the last. She leaves
seven children and numerous grandch ldre and
great-grandchildren to mourn her departure. She
has gone to her rest belo ed and respected by
all who knew her, and a g orious crown awaits
her in the morning of the resurrection.
Her loving daughter
J. P. CU[-]TIS

SARAH A. STROCK.
	SARAH A. STROCK died at her home in Forest
Dale Friday, October 29, 1897, at 3 o'c ock. She
was born on the 14th day of June, A D. 1838, in
Franklin county, Pennsylvania and came to Utah
in 1862; resided in Salt Lake City until 1866 and
then removed to Fort Herriman, Sa t Lake coun-
ty, and was the first president of the Relief Soci-
ety of that place. She has always been connect-
ed with the Relief Society in the various wards in
which she has resided
	After living at Herriman for three years the
deceased returned to Salt Lake Ci[-]y and lived
there until about six years ago when she removed


to Forest Dale where she resided at the time of
her death. She had no children of her own but
was beloved for her motherly instincts by all who
knew her. If to relieve the distressed and to
visit and befriend the widow and he fatherless i
true religion then the deceased was truly re-
ligious. Of a humble, simple and unpretentious
na ure she y t im ressed all who met her with
the beauty of her character and the purity and
patience of her life.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, It has pleased A mighty God to
take from this sp ere of action our beloved and
respected member and ecre ary of this Society,
Sister Sarah H. Strock, and
	WHEREAS, In her demise we have lost a dear
friend and faithful Latter-day S int in whom
was love, charity and sympathy for those in need
and while we have to regret our deprivation of
the support of her ind m nable courage, her
ch erful sympathy and pleasant association and
fully realizing that it is God’s will that we should
be separated from her for a short time. There-
fore be it
	RESOLVED, That we condole with her bereaved
husband in this his great loss, who we feel assured
has the sympathy of all the members of this the
Forest Dale ward. And be it further
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be placed
upon the records of the Society.
			RELIEF SOCIETY OF FOREST DALE.


UTAH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

	THE organization of the State Historical
Society of Utah, which has been under way
since the midsummer Jubilee, was effected
at a meeting held first Tuesday Jan. 1898.
The meeting occured in the counting room
of the Utah National Bank, and assembled
in response to a call from the temporary
chairman, Mr. Jerrold R. Letcher. The
by-laws of the society were adopted and
the articles of incorporation signed, after
which the officers were chosen as follows:
	Franklin D. Richards, president; Isabella
Cameron Brown, vice-president; Jerrold R.
Letcher, recording secretary; James T.
Hammond, corresponding secretary; Lewis 
S. Hills, treasurer; Antoniette B. Kinney, 
librarian.
	Executive comittee—George W. Thatch-
er, Logan; Joseph Geoghegan, Salt Lake;
Lewis W. Shurtliff, Ogden; Joseph B.
Kingsbury, Salt Lake; Electa Bullock,
Provo; John T, Caine, Salt Lake; Robert
C. Lund, St. George; Charles C. Goodwin,
Salt Lake; Henry W. Lawrence, Salt Lake.
	The objects for which the society is or-
ganized are: “The encouragement of his-
torical research and inquiry, by the explor-
ation and investigation of aboriginal monu-
ments and remains; the collection of such
material as may serve to illustrate the
growth, development and resources of Utah
and the intermountain region; the preserv-
ation of manuscripts, papers, documents
and tracts of value, especially narratives of
the adventures of the early explorers and
pioneers; the establishment and maintenance
of a public library and museum; the cultiva-
tion of science, literature and the liberal
arts; the holding of meetings at stated inter-
vals for the interchange of views and critic-
sms.
THE CHARTER MEMBERS.
	Charles Adams, Parowan; Caleb R. Bar- 
ratt, Robert N. Baskin, Charles W. Bennett,
Alexander C. Bishop, Nat M. Brigham,
Isabella Cameron Brown, Salt Lake; Electa
Bullock, Provo; John T. Caine, Angus
M. Cannon, John Q. Cannon, Spencer
Clawson, Edward F. Colborn, George Q.
Coray, Benjamin F. Cummings Jr., Chris
Diehl, John E. Dooly. Williard Done, Ellen


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
B. Ferguson, Salt Lake; James X. Fergu-
son, Helper; Charles C. Goodwin, Joseph
Geoghegan, Heber J. Grant Salt Lake;
James T. Hammond, Logan; Harry C. 
Hill, Tidelia Belcher Hamilton, Lewis S.
Hills, Salt Lake; John Horton, American
Fork; William Howard, Huntington; Had-
ley D. Johnson, Andrew Jenson, Joseph T.
Kingsbury, Antoinette B. Kinney, Clesson
S. Kinney, Eurithe K. La Barthe, Henry
Lawrence, Salt Lake; William A. Lee,
Ogden; Jerrold R. Letcher, Salt Lake;
Robert C. Lund, St. George; John T.
Lynch Thomas Marshall, Salt Lake; Jacob
F. Miller, Farmington; Elias Morris, Wil-
liam S. McCornick, Salt Lake; Harry F.
McCune, Nephi; Emma J. McVicker, Salt
Lake, Aqulla Nebeker, Laketown; John
Parry, Cedar; Orlando W. Powers, Charles
W. Penrose, Arthur Pratt, Salt Lake;
Franklin D. Richards, Ogden; Franklin S.
Richards, Morris L. Ritchie, Charles R.
Savage, Salt Lake; Lewis W. Shurtliff,
Ogden; Elias A. Smith, Grant H. Smith,
John Henry Smith, Salt Lake; Joseph D.
Smith, Logan; Abraham O. Smoot, Provo;
George W. Thatcher, Logan; Mat Thomas,
Farmington; Emmeline B. Wells, Salt
Lake; Barry Wride, Provo; Heber M.
Wells, Horace G. Whitney, Orson F.
Whitney, Everett W. Wilson, Parley L.
Williams, John R. Winder, Alfales Young,
Richard W. Young, Charles S. Zane, Salt 
Lake.
BY-LAWS
	Section 1. Any person of good, moral
character who is interested in the work of
this society may be eligible to membership
upon complying with the conditions pre-
scribed in these by-laws.
	Section 2. Active members shall con-
sist of residents of the State of Utah. Life
members shall consist of such residents of
the State as may contribute not less than 
$50 to the endowment fund of the society.
Corresponding members shall consist of
non-residents of the State of literary and
historical attainments. Honorary members
may consist of explorers and Pioneers, or
persons distinguished for literary or scien-
tific work, particularly in the line of
American history, who are non-residents of
the State.
	Section 3. Applications for membership
shall be endorsed by not less than three
active members in good standing and pre-
sented to the board of control, and, in the
case of active and life memberships, must
be accompanied by the initiation fee.
	Section 4. Life, corresponding and
honorary members shall be exempt from
the payment of dues and assessments.
	Section 5. Members shall be chosen by
majority vote of the board of control—ex-
cept honorary members—who shall be elect-
ed at the annual meetings of the Society.
	Section 6. Any member may be expelled
for cause by the board of control, upon
charges duly preferred, and after a hearing,
subject to the right of appeal to the society
at the next ensuing annual meeting; pro-
vided that a failure to pay any dues or as-
sessments for six months shall work a for-
feiture of membership.
	The by-laws provide for commissioners
to be appointed each year by the president,
and during the summer of every year there
will be a field day of the society.
	The initial and annual membership fees
ars each $2, and the board of control are
given authority to levy assessments not to

[Column 2]
exceed $1, and to be made not more fre-
quent than than once a year.
	The regular meeting of the board of con-
trol will be held the first week in January,
April, July and October of each year, and
the president or board are authorized to call
special meetings. The regular meetings of
the society for the transaction of general
business are to be held on the third Mon-
day in January of each year.


“FRET NOT THYSELF”

(Psalms.)
Wh refore ar thou fearful, brother?
	Sister why this dread of ill?
God who succored ancient Israel,
	Lives and loves His children still.
Cling to Him with trust unshaken;
	Every blessing waits for you;
All His words a e full of p[-]omis[-],
	All His p[-]omises are true!
If unaided we were s[-]riving,
	St[--]1 to keep the narrow way,
With no Friend Alwise to guide us,
	Dark indeed would be this day:
But as mother-love doth nestle
	Tenderly the inf[-]nt form,
God’s own s elt’ring a[-]ms s[-]all fold us,
	M[-]dst the fierce and chilling storm.
Be not troubled, brother, sister,
	Sink not ’neath your weight of cares;
Earth and all things are our Father’s
	Are not we His legal heirs?
Yes if we are meek and humble,
	Honest, virtuous nd true;
Penitent for all our follies,
	M rciful to others, too.
Saints of God! can ye be doubtful,
	Who have seen the wond’rous pow’r,
Shown in might [-]o guard His pe p e,
	Through the darkest d[-]y and hour?
Unto each He grants some portion,
	Of sustaining strength and skill;
Use those precious gif s in wisdom;
	Pra[-]se His name and trust Him sti l.
Fret not, but wi h patience wait ye,
	In the Lord your souls delight;
Purified and cleansed from evil,
	W[-]en His people will unite,
In the strength of faith and virtue,
	Then shall strife and trouble cease,
And the meek and willing triumph,
	In abundance, love and peace.
LULA.
January, 1898.


MRS. HANNAH J. BAILEY, of Winthrop
Me., is one of the most earnest advocates of
international arbitration. She inherited
her ideas from her father David Johnson, a
minister in the Society of Friends.


[Column 1]
Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[beside the logo]
The
People’s
Favorite

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited” for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City		7:00 a. m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver						6:25 p. m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City			3:10 p. m.
“The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver					0 a. m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLIVER W. MINK,
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
		JOHN W. DOANE,
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
					Receivers.
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
		H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nat[-]on. 241

