VOL. 26.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1897.	NO. 13.


CONTENTS:
	A Tribute—Lillie T. Freeze. Prenatal Influ-
ences—Ida Lowry Allen. Notes and News. A
Word to the Primaries—Mary L. Morris. The
Savior’s Word—E. H. L. Restoration of Mount
Vernon. National American Woman Suff[-]age
Association. R. S. Reports.  In Memoriam.
Ladies' Semi-monthly Meeting.
	EDITORIAL:—The National University. U. W.
P. C. Editorial Notes. 
	POETRY:—The Weed and her Friends—Mary L.
Morris. Mary V. Young—Lydia D. Alder.


THE WEED AND HER FRIENDS.

A WEED looked up from the lawn one day,
	And turning its head around,
Said, “I see the people have gone away,
	And the mower lies flat on the ground.

And the hoe stands under the elm tree there,
	And the digging-fork close by its side,
They are a most industrious pair,
	When with energy applied.

But I don’t care for the mower and hoe,
	Oh dear me no, not I!
They cannot touch me from head to toe,
	When no human hand is nigh.

And I have friends in the sun, and air,
	And the raindrops clear and bright;
And thd evening dew, with its mantle fair
Which glistens in morning light.

So I’ll rear my head in native pride,
	And crown it with bright red beads,
My shoulders and arms I’ll spread out wide,
	And load them with tinted seeds. 

Now Autumn with her balmy air,
	Will play on my offspring’s brow;
In rich, soft soil drop many a pair,
	Awaiting the springtime’s plow.

Then comes the wind with his mighty power,
	He does his work wisely and well;	
He carries my children from tomb to tower 
	O’er mountain, and flowery dell. 

Then comes the snow with her silent wand,
	She keeps my children warm.
King frost is nigh with his icy hand
	To seal them from the storm.

When winter’s o’er and the snows have gone,
	And the sun comes to kiss me again—
March wind will pluck the gems from my crown
	And scatter them o’er the plain. 

And some of my babies, like most little ones,
	Will paddle in brooklets clear,
And down through great streams will journey on
	Through oceans, to lands afar.

Now if this young man having charge of all,
	Had before he went away,
Plucked me up though I was but small;
	Left nothing of me to stay,

I could not have grown ten thousand strong,
	Aided by sun and air 
And the wind and rain as they came along,
	And the dew with its mantle fair.


But now I’ve gone beyond his reach
	He never can gather me in.”
Let this humble weed her lesson teach.
	For such is the journey of sin!
		M. L. MORRIS.


[Column 1]
A TRIBUTE

IN HONOR OF AURELIA SPENCER ROGERS.
“AND they that be wise shall shine as
the brightness of the firmament; and they
that turn many to righteousness as the stars
for ever and ever.”
	Who is Aurelia Spencer Rogers? What
has she done worthy of honor? are questions
that might be asked by many of the Latter-
day Saints; but among 3,500 workers in
the great cause to which she has devoted
her life, her name is honored as the Origin-
ator of the Primary Association in Zion.
	She is the second daughter of Orson
Spencer, author of “Spencer’s Letters,”
a valuable Church work, and was born in
Saybrook, Conn., Oct. 4, 1834. Her par-
ents moved to Illinois and she was baptized
when nine years of age. During the ex-
odus from Nauvoo her mother died from
exposure and exhaustion through camping
out in midwinter, leaving a family of five
little children. Six months later her father
was sent to Great Britian to preside over
the mission there and was obliged to leave
his children in the care of his eldest daugh-
ter Ellen, a girl of thirteen years (the late
Sister Clawson, president of the Salt Lake
Stake and one of the most devoted workers.)
During his absence the little family crossed
the plains in President Brigham Young’s
company, taking five months to complete
the journey. Aurelia became the wife of
the late Thomas Rogers and settled in
Farmington, Davis Co. Being the mother
of a growing family whom she desired
above anything to see become good Latter-
day Saints, her soul was pained by seeing
many evil habits creeping in among the
children of her neighborhood particularly
among the boys, for which the Sabbath
School did not seem quite sufficient check,
and her anxious question was “What can
be done to change these conditions?” The
answer came in the inspired idea, “Organ-
ize the children into an association and
teach them the principles of the Gospel.”
This thought was revealed to Sister Eliza
R. Snow and Emmeline B. Wells while at-
tending a conference held in Farmington on
July 10, 1878.
	Deeply impressed with this idea so sug-
gestive of benefit to the children, these sis-
ters immediately laid the matter before
President John Taylor who, with the quor-
um of the twelve apostles presided over
the Church at that time. It met with his
hearty approval and he commissioned Sis-
ter Eliza to choose a companion and com-
mence organizing the children; her choice
fell on Sister Zina D. Young and together
with their sisters time, they visited the settle-
ments and wards, organizing the Primary
Association and instructing the officers and
children in their duties. The first organiza-

[Column 2]
tion was effected in Farmington with Aure-
lia S. Rogers, president; Louisa Haight and
Helen Miller, counselors. The sisters were
set apart by Bishop John W. Hess and his
counselors, Jacob Miller and Arthur Stay-
ner. August 11, 1878, the first association
in Salt Lake City was organized in the 11th
Ward with Louie B. Felt, president; Lizzie
M. Felt, Laura M. White, counselors, and
Maggie Freeze, secretary.
	As the work progressed and Stake organ-
izations were completed Aurelia Rogers
was chosen to preside over the Primary 
Associations of the Davis Stake, and still
later when the General board was called in- 
to existence and enlarged, this worthy and
beloved pioneer was elected to the position 
of an aid. Being built upon a proper
foundation—with the sanction and ap-
proval of the Priesthood from its infancy—
the Primary work was established through-
out Zion and has been sustained as one of 
the most important organizations in the
Church.
	The amount of faith, courage and persis- 
tenence and patient determination required
by the sisters called to labor in the past can
scarcely be estimated, but a deep sense of
responsibility and an abiding love for the
children of the Saints have inspired heroic
efforts in the paths of duty. All honor is 
due them especially the pioneer in this
movement. What are the results of this 
devotion for upwards of twenty years? Only 
the angels can tell, but according to the
last annual report made by the General
board, which included a report from every
Stake in Zion, we can form a little idea of
the good being accomplished.
	There are 484 associations, 2,767 officers
and 33,659 members. There has been
held 13,946 meetings and conferences,
representing the spiritual and moral edu-
cation, 412 entertainments, showing the
mental and social, 56 fairs, showing the in-
dustrial. The Primary Fair is a very inter-
esting and important feature, originated
with Sister Ann Dustin Woolley, of East
Bountiful, the first being held in the Asso-
ciation over which she still presides.
	The nature of the exercises can briefly be
told from a few statistics. Readings from
Church works 24,454; readings and recita-
tions from miscellaneous works 30,259;
testimonies borne 17,174; sentiments mem-
orized and stories related 70,207; manu-
script papers 294; essays, dialogues, histori-
cal sketches and lectures 2,833; musical ex-
ercises, vocal and instrumental 13,804.
	Financially hundreds of dollars annually
are devoted to charitable purposes, mission-
ary work, traveling expenses and the var-
ious enterprises connected with the Church.
Thus we see that the opportunities for
development are varied, tending to the edu-
cation of the children spiritually, mentally,
morally, physically and socially—the spirit-
ual growth taking the lead. Boys and girls
between the ages of four and fourteen are
taught to pray in secret and trained in
forms of public devotion. They are taught
to honor their parents and the Priesthood,
observe the Sabbath day, pay tithes and
offerings as individuals and as associations,


to keep the word of wisdom, have faith in
the ordinance for the healing of the sick, to
respect the aged and sympathize with the
afflicted. In these good things and many
others they are taught and disciplined by
actual doing, all tending to establish correct
sentiments as they grow to man and wo-
manhood.
	It is for such results brought about
through Sister Rogers as an instrument in
the hands of God that we have met to offer
her our heartfelt gratitude and pay the re-
spect due her faithful, loving and successful
labors. Many noble, inspired men and wo-
men have devoted their life’s best work to
the good and happiness of little children,
struggling on alone, their efforts unap-
preciated and finally passing away unhonor-
ed and unsung, long before their bread cast
upon the waters has returned to them even
after many days, but under the Gospel
reign, with its marvelous system of organ-
zation to present and perpetuate the in-
spired thought given to men and women,
their meed of appreciation and praise comes
to them even in this life; it is a sweet re-
ward for all their toil and when they rest
from their labors in the Lord, their works
follow them, and their names are held in
honorable remembrance among the Saints
of God. 
			LILLIE T. FREEZE.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
PRENATAL INFLUENCES.

	In the American Text Book of Obstetrics
we find the following: “There exists a
popular belief which was particularly preva-
lent during early times, that the peculiar
sensations, emotions, sights etc., experi-
enced by a pregnant woman are frequently
transmitted to her child, and if these sights
and impressions are particularly frightful
they cause marks and defects on the child.
One of the arguments advanced in favor of
this view is that a belief so universal is
rarely entirely fallacious, especially when
the subject is based upon observation.
	At the present time authors, practition-
ers and teachers differ, but up to the begin-
ning of the 18th century they were nearly
unanimous in the belief that birth marks,
deformities and lack of development phy-
sically and mentally were due to impressions
received from the mother.
	During the past forty years many articles
have been written strongly opposed to the
previously accepted theory of prenatal influ-
ence.
	It has always been extremely difficult to
demonstrate that any deformity or lack of
development in the child was due to an im-
pression which the mother may have re-
ceived before its birth inasmuch as there
seems to be at least one very strong argu-
ment, in that we find no direct nerve con-
nection existing between the mother and
child.
	We must conclude, however, that there
are some unknown laws operating to in-
fluence the unborn child, for in this way
are family traits and features kept in exis-
tence and in this way are the traits, charac-
ters and dispositions of races perpetuated
from one generatron to another.
	But the vital point under discussion is
this:—to what degree are the characters
and dispositions of mankind affected by
prenatal influences?
	From the testimony of the best observers
from the historical and scientific witnesses

[Column 2]
on this subject we can safely say that the
characters and dispositions of mankind are
influenced very much by the conditions
which operate during the period of gesta-
tion. The late Fordice Barker has been
credited with demonstrating the correctness
of the theory of maternal impressions in a
paper read in 1886, before the American
Gynecological Society.
	Let us imagine a mother surrounded with
the most pleasant and happy conditions,
having proper daily habits, refined, intelli-
gent, full of reverence for God, the Great
Creator, loving all good things especially
the little helpless being given her to nourish
and bring into existence. Appreciating
the most glorious privilege of motherhood
and earnestly desiring to perfect herself in
every good quality she would desire her
child to possess.
	Then for a moment look at another wo-
man, immoral, uncleanly, profane, degraded
in thought and action, hating her unborn
child, in fact having murderous feelings to-
wards it. Now can it be possible for this
low, vile woman to bring into existence as
pure, healthy, intelligent, gifted, sweet-
tempered, lovable child as the former mother
referred to?
	For it is not only true that she could not
endow him with those desirable qualities
during his ante-natal life, but that she is
wholly unprepared to teach, guide and
direct his young mind either by example or
precept. And allowing that the prenatal
conditions wield a great influence on the
unborn child, it is also an established fact
that the teaching and training of a child
after birth determines to a great extent the
character, qualifications and avocation.
So as life produces life should it not be an
incentive to every true mother to aspire for
the highest, the purest, the best in all
things? Dr. Cowan says:
	“To have children is a thing greatly to
be desired; but to have children of well
balanced organizations, healthy, beautiful
and possessing the quality of genius in
some one or other direction, is something
every parent should long strive and work
for.”
	Why is it there is so much of the plain
and mediocre of mankind in the world?
Why is it that when there is one success in
life’s endeavor there are one thousand of
failures? Why is it that there is so much
sin, misery, suffering and premature death
and so little, so very little of genuine suc-
cess and happiness? Why is there so much
wrong in life, so little of the right? These
are important questions, yet easy of solu-
tion; for when it comes to be understood
that not more than one child in perhaps ten
thousand is brought into the world with the
consent and loving desire of the parents,
and that the other nine thousand, nine hun-
dred and ninety-nine children are endowed
with the accumulated sins of the parents, is
it any wonder that there is so much sin,
sickness, drunkenness, licentiousness, mur-
der, suicide and premature death, and so
little of purity, chastity, success, goodness
and long life in the world? The reforma-
tion of the world can never be accomplished
—the millenium of purity, chastity and in-
tense happiness can never reach the earth
except through cheerful obedience to pre-
natal laws.
	With educational institutions in the
world—all the benevolent, industrial and
reform societies—all the temperance soci-
eties and all the divines in the world com-

[Column 3]
bined and working harmoniously together
cannot do as much in a lifetime of effort in
the elevation of mankind, as can a mother
in nine months of prenatal effort.
	It is a noticable thing that in the ruling
and guiding of this world there is absolute- 
ly nothing done by chance, from the
growth of the smallest insect to that of the
largest quadruped; from the falling of a
sparrow to the death of a sinner or a
Christian; from the forming of the tiny
crystal of dew, to the laboring of the de-
structive hurricane. In all and through all
and over all is the working of God’s Omni-
potent presence—His unchangable and un-
deviating laws. In the production of off-
spring there too must be a law—a law of
right and wrong, and the non-observance
of this law entails on its violaters the pen-
alty of a sickly, effeminate, mediocre, short-
lived progeny, while its close observance
brings with it an approach to perfection in
form, feature and soul of the new born.
	The influence of a right birthright on the
future welfare of mankind is immense. A
statitican has estimated that every married
couple producing offspring may calculate
upon four millions of descendants in five
hundred years. And then the influence of
well-directed or mis-directed laws in the
conception of a new life does not stop at its
exit from this world. Oh no, it extends
into eternity. Give birth to a human
being under conditions that will make it an
imbecile or an idiot, and the parents or any
sane person will not think that after its
death it will in the next world, bloom into
a Shakespeare, a Milton or Bacon. Endow
a new life with a licentious, gluttonous,
unclean and wicked nature, and no right-
thinking observer will decide that as soon
as such a soul leaves this earth, it will take
on the garments of purity, innocence,
chastity and holiness. Therefore it be-
hooves all parents to see to it that they
learn the law, understand and practice it.
			IDA LOWRY ALLEN.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE founding of a new co-educational,
non-sectarian university, is contemplated
by Washington Corrington, a millionaire
farmer of Peoria, Ill. He is now eighty-
five years old. For twenty years he has
been thinking of a plan to give others the
education he could not get in his youth,
and he has finally arranged that after his
death his entire fortune, $1,500,000, gather-
ed during his long life of toil, shall be used
to found Corrington Institute and Univer-
sity. It will be erected on his old home-
stead near Peoria, where he has toiled for
fifty-three years.
	REV. W. B. PALMORE, of the St. Louis
Advocate, strikes this contrast: “When
we see the average Southern girl, we
generally feel like volunteering our ser-
vices for protection, to see that no harm be-
falls her. When we see the average
Northern girl we feel like putting our-
selves under her protecting care, that she
she may see that no harm befalls us.”
	MISS LUTIE LYTLE, the young colored
woman who graduated last summer from
the law department of the Central Tennes-
see College, at Nashville, has been admitted
o the bar at Memphis.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MARY V. YOUNG
 
LOVINGLY INSCRIBED TO HER MOTHER.
As stately and fair as lilies in bloom,
When on the soft air they breathe sweet perfume
With heart true and tender, yet not understood—
How refreshing the flowers that bloom in the
	wood!
Like violets, hid far away from the sight,
Deep under green leaves removed from the light,
Yet rare in their beauty as Summer’s full moon
That throws her effulgence o’er the roses of June

How high o’er the world in serenest repose,
Sail the moon and the clouds when the night wind
	blows!
Whence is their course, how appointed to them?
So far, far away from the boundaries of men.
Not understood in magnificence they shine, 
Their author and ruler, the Grand and Sublime.
And so among men even those whom we love,
To our hearts are unknown, like the stars up
	above. 

Down deep in the soul from the world all hidden
A tender love is living unselfish, unbidden;
By the careless and thoughtless it never is seen—
Rare paintings and pictures with the false hung
	between.
So beautiful was Mary, who died long ago,
And was laid in the earth far under the snow;
Only known to the few, but by them held so dear,
That over her bier fell affection’s sad tear.

On a stone white and cold, close by the City’s din,
Read the simple story “O what might have been!”
The past discloses sadness and a share of pain,
A life not understood, though of pure and holy
	aim.
When shall we meet, again no more to sever!
Friends that ne’er forget loving on forever?—
The grave can bring no change, but a perfect
	day,
Awaits the ransomed spirit unfettered by its clay.
					LYDIA D. ALDER
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 1897.
	*Wife of President Brigham Young, died Jan.
1884


A WORD TO THE PRIMARIES

Dear Sister Wells:
	KNOWING that you are interested in the
welfare of all the borders of Zion, we
thought perhaps you would not turn away 
a few words from its center Stake.
	Since our reorganization, which occured
Sep. 12 of last year, shortly after the death
of our beloved president Sister Ellen C. 
Clawson, we have endeavored to visit every
ward in the Stake. If we have omitted any
it has been because the opportunity has not
been tendered us. We can visit the city
wards at will but the country have our
visits in their own hands, because we have
to wait not only for invitation but for trans-
portation from the car lines. Where we
have visited we have been treated right
royally, but some of our city visits have
been like the angels spoken of anciently,
unawares. But the sisters take it all in
good part for they know that we have but
one aim, and that to benefit them and those
whom they are called to teach.
	As we have visited we have generally
graded, and have received excellent reports
of its results. The need of grading is easily 
seen; for instance in addressing a Primary
association pupils will very often range
from three to sixteen years; such an ad-
dress will be like a handful of promiscuous
shot, it will hit where it does not miss, or

[Column 2]
part of it will be thrown over the heads of
the little tots, or larger ones will be left un-
fed or uninterested. Whereas by assorting
the children and placing each grade apart
we can appeal to each grade according to
their degree of intelligence. Grading is
quite a little task, but once accomplished it
more than pays. We take the tots from
three to six years, give them in charge of a
counselor or aid, then pick out three, say
from seven to ten and eleven, interest and
instruct them according to their capacity.
Then comes the grade from eleven to
twelve or fifteen; now this grade feel their
importance immediately, they feel that they
are no longer classed with babies and can
do a higher grade of work and are proud of
it, and from this grade we take our aids
who help in time of need, and from this
class we can take our secretaries. Each
class prepares its own minutes and program
but hands them in as a whole to the secre-
tary of the association at the close of the
meeting.
	We have great pleasure in our work and
our colaborers are a willing band of sisters.
Since our reorganization the attendance at
the officers meeting, which occurs on the
first Saturday in every month, has increased
greatly, yes to an overflow and even to
utilizing the window sills. Some wards
that we visit are doing so well that we are
delighted, while in some wards there is a
lack of energy or ability which makes us
feel sad to think that the darlings must go
unfed spiritually or intellectually. Those
who do put their soul and energy into their
work are deserving great praise and will re-
ceive a great reward, for we know they
must drop their own affairs no matter how
trying this may be, and many times drag
their weary bodies to the place where the
little ones can be taught the ways of the
Lord.
	We must not forget to tell you of a
delightful sociable that we had lately. It
was a reunion of the officers of the Salt
Lake Stake Primary association including the
general board and the boards of other asso-
ciations of the Church. As your dear self
could not meet with us as per invitation,
we want to tell you that it was a pretty
sight to see the happy faces of our sisters
and some of our brethren on that occasion.
It was decided there and then by our guests
and your correspondent that this delightful
affair must be repeated at least once a year.
Please pardon us if we have trespassed on
your valuable space.
				MARY L. MORRIS.
	In behalf of the Board.


THE SAVIOR’S WORDS.

	AT the birth of our Savior a great part of
the world was subject to the Romans.
Augustus was the Emperor at that time.
Most nations except the Jews were idol-
aters, the greater part of their gods were
ancient heroes, likewise females who were
distinguished for their great deeds, also the
sun, moon and stars received worship from
many Others paid divine homage to the
earth, mountains, rivers, oceans, or at least
to the deities supposed to preside over these
objects.
	Towards the close of the reign of Herod,
(a tributary king of Palestine and a cruel
tyrant,) our Savior was born.
	Our Savior, the spotless Son of God!
During his brief life he set a perfect exam-


ple for man to follow but little heed was
taken. The early Christians were barbar-
ously treated.
	The teachings of Christ were so simple
that all might understand but how few did!
He gathered to himself disciples, instructed
them and sent them forth to preach his
Gospel. The Roman Empire asserted its
right to rule in all things, human and Di-
vine. To preach Christianity in Rome was
looked upon as high treason. The Romans
considered themselves not only the greatest of
all nations but the most religious.
	The great mass of the early Christians
were from the lower ranks of the people,
and down through the centuries the poor,
the meek and the lowly have been the fol-
lowers of Jesus. It is the same today.
	As Latter-day Saints how blest a people
we are who live in this day when the true 
Gospel of Jesus Christ has been revealed,
and what a work rests upon us for the liv-
ing and the dead!  Then let us be true to
our religion, doing our duty and all will be
well, for the Lord has ever been and will
ever be with those who do his will. We
may make grave mistakes, commit many 
errors, but if our desires are to do right our
Heavenly Father will be merciful unto us
His children.				E. H. L.


RESTORATION OF MOUNT VERNON.

	IT will be gratifying news to many to
learn that Mount Vernon is to undergo
restoration to as near its condition at the
time of its occupancy by our first President
as is practicable.
	It was recently discovered that decay had
set in in some of the timbers used in the
erection of the mansion and work has al-
ready begun under the direction of the
Mount Vernon Ladies’ association for their
replacement by materials of most lasting
quality. At the same time the house will
be given over to T. Mellon Rogers of Phila-
delphia, a colonial architect of note, for
restoration as far as is possible to its origin-
al beauty of decoration and arrangement of
furniture. It is not well known that in
the years that have intervened since the
death of its illustrious tenant that the inte-
rior beauty of the house has been sadly mar-
red by careless and ignorant renovation.
On his examination Mr. Rogers found that
exquisite carved work had been partly obli-
terated by numerous coats of paint, as many
as ten being found on some of the wood-
work; that delicately tinted walls had been
covered by several layers of wall paper, in
which no intelligent care had been taken to
preserve the original scheme of decoration.
This extraneous matter will be carefully re-
moved and as far as possible original color-
ings and decorations be restored. New
cornice wlll be put in place of that impair-
ed by time and misusage. The plain col-
umns now supporting the upper floor will
be replaced by colonial fluted columns; the
staircase will be repaired and a blackwal-
nut effect imparted to it, and the furniture
of the mansion will be rearranged in con-
formity with its placing in Washington’s
time.
	The expense of this radical restoration
will be assumed by the respective state
representatives of the Mount Vernon
Ladies’ association.—Home Magazine.


MRS. J. ELLEN FOSTER has opened a
law office in Washington, D. C., in associa-
tion with Mrs. Ellen Spencer Mussey.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia),	Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
pace one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
ount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 1, 1897.


[Column 1] 
THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY.

	WASHINGTON, NOV 16.—The agitated
question of establishing in the city of
Washington a national university on the
lines suggested by President Washington,
has taken more definite form than in the
past, and representative American women
have taken hold of the project with a de- 
termination to push it to a successful con-
clusion if possible. They have started out
in a practical manner by seeking to raise
the first $250,000 necessary for the erection 
of an administration building to form the
nucleus of the university and hope to lay
the corner stone on Feb. 22, 1899. Their
purpose in the interim is to urge the matter
continuously on the attention of women all
over the country. They intend likewise to
interest the school children in the work.
As a first step for awakening interest in the
undertaking they will assemble in conven-
tion in Washington on Dec. 14, to decide
on ways and means for arousing public
sentiment.
	Among those who have initiated the
movement to fulfill Washington’s wish are
Mrs. Phebe Hearst of this city, Mrs. Ellen
A. Richardson of Boston, Mrs. Clara A.
Anthony, Mrs. Rachel Howland, Mrs.
Louise Tincker and Mrs. Edmond Anthony
Jr. of Massachusetts, Mrs. L. Boyd of 
Georgia, Mrs. W. A. Roebling of New
Jersey, Mrs. John K. Goodloe, of Kentucky,
Mrs. H. H. Adams of Connecticut, Mrs. C.
S. Brice of Ohio, Mrs. Eugene Hall, Mrs.
David Starr Jordan, Dr. Charlotte Bleak
Brown, Mrs. E. S. Hubbard and Mrs. 
Caroline Jackson of California.
	Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson of Boston,
chief organizer of the movement writing to
Mr. George H. Harris of this city of the
plan thus far formed, says:
	“The patriotic ladies of America are to build
the administration building and they propose to
make the 22nd of February, 1898 the nation’s first
offering day for this purpose, asking no large co-
tribution, begging nothing. America’s 70,000,000
people must build this great monument. If the
13 000,000 children in the public schools in 
America would give an offering of a penny each 
on Washington’s birthday they would have suffi-
cient to erect the building and endow it. Let us
then join hands and have an American university.
American sciences, American ideas for American
citizens.”
	Mrs. Richardson further stated that she
has arranged with the proper authorities
that the bureau of engraving and printing 
shall produce certificates which shall be
given to those who contribute.

[Column 2]
THE MEETING IN SALT LAKE CITY.
	Mrs Margaret Blaine Salisbury has been
appointed by the president, Mrs. Richard-
son for Utah, to take charge of the work of
this State.
	The meeting held at her residence on
Saturday afternoon Nov. 27, was for the
purpose of organizing.a committee for this
enterprise. Letters were sent out before-
hand not only to women in this city but in
Ogden, Logan, Provo and Park City. A
number of ladies responded to the call, and
at the time appointed Mrs. Salisbury stated
the object of the meeting, and the ladies
assembled then and there elected Mrs. Salis-
bury permanently to fill the office to which
she had been appointed by the central or-
ganization. She was authorized by vote to
appoint a secretary and such other officers
as were needed to assist in the work. Fol-
lowing this suggestion the chairman ap-
pointed Mrs, C. E. Allen, vice-chairman
and representative of the First Congressional
district of Utah; Miss Hester Harkness, secre-
tary; Mrs. F. J. Fabian, treasurer, and Mrs. E.
B. Wells, press representative.
	Mrs. Salisbury read an address which
stated all the important facts concerning
the movement, and read from the will of
George Washington that part relating to the
founding of such an institution, and also
how the funds left by him for that purpose
had been lost; the chairman also read the
Senate bill upon the subject, therefore the
ladies present were informed of the object
in view and the needs of such a magnificent
building as would be required for the pur-
pose named.
	Mrs Allen spoke upon the necessity of
the people of this State proving their inter-
est in the movement, bringing out clearly
the idea of American patriotism.
	Mrs. Fabian spoke briefly upon the
great need of a university where such
degrees could be given as were obtained in
foreign institutions and avoid the neces-
sity of so many thousands of young people
going abroad to study. Mrs. Kinney made
some practical suggestions as to how the
money should be raised.
	A committee on resolutions was appointed
and later an important resolution submitted
and passed unanimously to aid the chair-
man in matters to be considered in the
meeting to which she is called as delegate
from Utah. The meeting is to be held in
Washington on December 14th, and Mrs.
Salisbury expects to leave in a few days for
the capital.
	The money which the women are prepar-
ing to raise at the present time or in the
near future is to build an administration
building as a nucleus of the university, and
is to be entirely woman’s work or a memor-
ial from the women of this country to the
immortal Washington.
	The cost of the building is estimated at
$250,000, and the proportion for Utah is ex-
pected to be $1,000. It is anticipated that
the corner stone will be laid Feb. 22, 1899.
A part of woman’s work will be to arouse
an interest in the school children of the
country to aid in the enterprise, and the
committee of women propose to make the
first offering for this building on Feb. 22,
1898.
	The committee of ladies already appoint-
ed at the meeting held are, besides the
officers whose names are: already given,
Mrs. Frank J. Cannon and Mrs. Whalon of
Ogden, Mrs. Hoyt of Park City, Mrs.
Coray of Provo, Mrs. Luther Foster and

[Column 3]
Mrs. George W. Thatcher of Logan, and
from this city Mrs. Hurd, Mrs. M. B. Jen-
nings, Mrs. Hoyt Sherman, Mrs. Blanche
Taylor, Mrs. Margaret A. Caine, Mrs.
Downey, Mrs. Wygant, Mrs. C. W. Ben-
nett, Mrs. C. S. Kinney, Mrs. M. C. Fox,
Mrs. Woodward, Mrs. Hamilton, Mrs.
Joseph C. Kingsbury.
	The meeting adjourned to meet at the
call of the chairman, after the plan of the
work had been formulated in Washington.


U. W. P. C.

	THE annual meeting of the U. W. P. C.
was held at the residence of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
Saturday evening Oct. 30, as the regular
day came on Sunday, Mrs. Ruth M. Fox
presiding. After prayer came the business
of electing officers to serve for the ensuing
year. Roll of officers as follows: Honorary
President, E. B. Wells; Past Presidents,
Dr. E. R. Shipp and Ruth M. Fox; elected
Dr. Romania B. Pratt President; Rebecca
H. Doolan and Helen Vilate Kimball, Vice-
Presidents; Isabella Cameron Brown, Vice-
President at Large; Mary A. J. Lambert
Secretary; Aimee Schiller Asst. Secretary;
Lydia D. Alder Cor. Secretary; Edith
Lovsey Asst. Cor. Secretary; Hattie B.
Harker Treasurer. The work of the en-
suing year was not decided upon as a new
program committee was to be appointed by
the president.
	According to previous arrangement
character representations were given by
some of the members. The ladies who
were most conspicuous were first Lydia D.
Alder as the sweet poet Lydia H. Sigourney
in lace mantilla and appropriate costume
throughout. She read the exquisite poem,
Napolion’s Epitaph, from this gifted writer.
Next came Lucy A. Clark as Hypatia, in
flowing raiment, artistically draped, dis-
coursing philosophy with the wisdom of an
ancient sage. Dr. Orielle Curtis made a 
very striking Portia, with cap and gown,
and withal she looked a Doctor of Laws in
very deed, and as she gave the quotation
“The quality of mercy is not strained,” one
might imagine her a real Greek heroine.
Rebecca H. Doolan with soft white hair
and fine lace cap in plain attire made a 
good picture of the late gifted Mormon 
poetess, Eliza R. Snow and read her poem
“Contentment”. Ruth M. Fox was simply
charming in her Quaker bonnet and severely
plain garb, carrying in her hand the scroll
of the Declaration of Independence and
giving the pathetic yet eloquent description
of the scene when the brave little woman
made herself forever famous on that mem-
orable night of the fire at the Capital.
	Ella W. Hyde in Puritan dress read one
of Louise M. Alcott’s sunshiny poems in a 
delightfully characteristic way. Edith R.
Lovsey read Longfellow’s poem to the
flowers, in a most charming style; bedecked
becomingly in fresh and beautiful flowers,
she made a pleasant picture to the eye and
her voice is full of sweetness. Helen Vilate
Kimball as Lady Elizabeth Montague
made quite an imposing appearance, richly
dressed, her tall, stately figure showed to
good advantage as a woman of rank and
title. No one was able to guess her identi-
ty, not even when she read quotations from
this celebrated English author’s “Letters
from the Dead.” Of this lady who was 
born in 1720, and died in 1800, the poet
Cowper said:


“The birds put off their every hue,
	To dress a room for Montague.”
She was even more popular than her illus-
trious kinswoman, Lady Mary Wortley
Montague, whom it is said suffered by the
comparison of her letters with those of Lady
Elizabeth.
 	The great Dr. Johnson said of her: “She
exerts more mind in conversation than any
person I ever met with.” However, her
greatest fame lay in her Essay on the
“Writings and Genius of Shakespeare.”
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt in heavy rustling
silk, her beautiful hair in natural curls, so
exactly like the portrait of Felicia Dorathea
Hemans as we see her in books, with fan and
reticule and scroll making a complete study
of the character, read one of the sweetest
poems written by this favorite author.
	Miss Pearl Russell as Lady Clare in sim-
ple gown with a rose in her hair, repeated
a verse from that charming poem of Tenny-
son’s and looked as timid and as sweet as
the beautiful Lady Clare herself possibly
could had she stepped out from the poem.
Aimee Schiller handsomely dressed repre-
sented the “Scarlet Letter” in a style new
 and unique and her reading was excellent
as well as her choice in the selection.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp with a beautiful dress
black gilk entraine and flowing sleeves
of glistening white that might have been
wings of angels so airy and fluttering they
were, carrying in each hand a luxuriant
bunch of chrysanthemums and accompan-
ied by her two daughters Olea and Ellis on
either side as maids of honor, made a
splendid picture of the Queen of Sheba,
and as she gave the quotation held up first
the bouquet of real flowers and then the
artificial, asking which was the true and
which the false and adding the half had not
been told, overcome as it were with the
splendor and magnificence of Solomon’s
Court.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells came in as Harriet
Martineau the English writer of works up-
on political economy and others rather re-
markable for a woman even in the early
part of this century, her costume such as
she had heard her mother say was worn for
she had lived about the same period as Miss
Martineau.
	Next came Mrs. Lizzie S. Wilcox who
gave the most humorous representation of
all, and strange to state though it was so
well done the classical, scholars of modern
date were not able to guess. She had the
tailor's goose, patches in profusion and
wore a man’s coat, sat at the table not pre-
cisely tailor fashion, however, and the fun
she provoked was quite exhilarating as
Sartor Resartus. After this the meeting
adjourned and the sweet young girls and a
few of the ladies of the club served delicate
refreshments, and there was some music
etc., and a pleasant chat in the pretty par-
lors, tastefully decorated with Autumn
flowers, and so ended the club evening of
October, 1897.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS. LILLIAN HACKETT CULVER of
Monida, Montana, recently paid a visit to
our city remaining a few days. Mrs.
Culver is a cousin of the late Gen. D. H.
Wells, and also something of a newspaper
correspondent. She was on her way East
to visit relatives in different states, Kansas,
Iowa, Illinois, New York, Massachusetts
and Maine. Mrs. Culver visited Salt Lake

[Column 2]
City in 1883 when Gen. Wells was living
and stayed for some time. In returning
after so many years she was surprised by
the many changes made in old residences
and public buildings. While here she
visited all the places of interest and was
greatly pleased with the Hall of Relics.
	ON Thursday Nov. 18, in company with
Sister E. S. Taylor, General President of
the Y. L. M. I. A., we had the pleasure of
visiting Logan and attending the confer-
ences of the Relief Society and the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Cache Stake. Both these confer-
ences were very entertaining and well at-
tended. The presidency of the Stake were
in attendance, one or more at each meeting,
also other brethren, and the various reports
from all parts of the Stake were quite satis-
factory and indicated the growth and im-
provement, being made in many departments
of organized effort. We expect to receive
the minutes for publication consequently
need not go into details, but will add that
we were delighted with the visit and in see-
ing some friends of early days, especially
some of Ezra T. Benson’s family. Sister
Adeline Benson at the great age of eighty-
four years, in fact she will be eighty-five
next March, retains her good looks and bet-
ter still all her faculties of mind and body;
although not able to go out very much she
converses well on the topics of the day,
reads the newspapers and keeps up with the
times.
	ON Saturday Nov. 20, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne’s birthday anniversary was celebrated
by a few of her intimate friends and co-
laborers at her home in this city. The oc-
casion was a happy one, although the num-
ber assembled was small in comparison to
the multitude of women, who would have
been pleased to honor and congratulate her
on attaining the great age of seventy-nine
years and retaining such good health and so
much of the vigor of life as to enable her to
perform the arduous labors devolving upon
her ln the various callings in which she
officiates among the organizations of the
women of Zion. The party resolved itself
into a meeting and Mrs. B. W. Smith was
chosen to preside. The sisters present each
expressed their love and appreciation of
Sister Horne and said many good things
calculated to stimulate her and each other
in good works and labors of love. Dr.
Elvira S. Barney read a paper prepared for
the veteran lady in whose honor the party
had met, which gave an epitome of the life
and labors of Sister Horne and of the pro-
gression of women in general, and what the
Gospel had done in uplifting mankind.
Many little gifts, mementoes of love and
friendship were given, and delicious refresh-
ments partaken of. Although not present
we also join in fervent congratulations,
hoping for Sister Horne increased vigor of
mind and body to pursue her labors among
the sisters in Zion, and that her very useful
life may be prolonged until her work on
earth is fully accomplished.
	THE Utah Kindergarten Association
gave one of its popular entertainments on
Friday evening Nov. 19, at the residence of
Mrs. Mina M. Cannon. The program was
an excellent one, some of the best home
talent proffered their services for “sweet
charity’s sake.” Mrs. Florence Marian
Dinwoodey who has studied music abroad,
also Miss Della Daynes who is a great favor-
ite and has a sweet, clear voice, Mr. Sales

[Column 3]
recently from London and others. The
superintendent, Mrs. Georgie F. Young,
and a few faithful co-laborers associated
with her have spared no effort or pains to
establish and sustain a Kindergarten in
Salt Lake City, for the training of the little
folks. It has been a great undertaking and
those who look on and criticise know noth-
ing comparatively speaking of the labor and
anxiety it has taken to do the little already
accomplished. If the people generally, and
especially the parents of the small children,
knew how beneficial this kind of training
would be they would assist with a will and
the few would not have to carry the burden
as they do now and have ever since the
enterprise was started. But the ladies are
grateful for the patronage they do receive at
the entertainments and lectures which have
been given, and still feel to persevere in the
good cause, trusting that the people in
general will soon become better acquainted
with the helpfulness of Kindergarten work.
	AN enjoyable reunion of the officers of
the Primary Association of Salt Lake Stake
and invited guests was held on Thursday
afternoon Nov. 18, in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Hall. The affair was under the direc-
tion of the superintendent of the Primaries of
this Stake, Sister Camilla C. Cobb and her
board of assistants. It was the first event
of the kind and proved to be a delightful
social gathering. The decorations were in
charge of Sisters Ella W. Hyde and Kate
Wells and were very artistic and pleasing.
Nearly every ward in the Stake was repre-
sented by its respective officers. Presidents
Angus M. Cannon and Jos. E. Taylor were
present also Louie B. Felt, General Superin-
tendent and her first assistant, Lillie T.
Freeze and some of the members of her
board, Aurelia S. Rogers of Davis Stake,
and Sisters B. W. Smith, M. A. Freeze and
others. A very fine program had been
prepared and was well rendered. There
were solos, duets and recitations. Among
those that should be especially noticed were
Josie Morris, Frankie Young, Miss Tibbetts
and Shirley Penrose Jones. We have not
space for details but we are told it was a
very excellent entertainment. L. Lula
Greene Richards read an original poem that
she had written for the occasion, which was
very apropos and well received. Remarks
were made by several leading brethren and
guests which were full of encouragement
and due praise for the good work done by
the Primary Associations, and as a matter
of course delicious refreshments in abun-
dance were served to all present by the
young women and girls who are laboring
in this good cause. These good sisters who
spend time and study to make the Primary
Association a success are worthy of com-
mendation and praise for their diligence and
faithfulness in their calling, and we trust
the reunion will be an impetus to those
who are indifferent or unaware of the great
responsibility of those who have been called
to assist in this important work.


NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN
SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.

	THE Thirtieth Annual Convention will
be held in the Columbia Theatre, Wash-
ington, D. C., beginning Feb. 14, and end-
ing Feb 19, 1898.
	This meeting will be of special interest
and significance as the Fiftieth Anniversary
of the First convention ever held to demand


equal rights for women. No Reform ever
was more imperatively needed; none ever
had greater obstacles to overcome. The
subjection of women was world-wide and of
immemorial antiquity. It was rooted in
the codes and customs of all nations. It
was accepted by men and women alike as
the law of nature and of God. The thought
of equality for women—their right to educa-
tion, to a chance for self-support, to the
control of their own persons, children, earn-
ings and property—had scarcely dawned
even upon the most progressive minds.
	The great movement has steadily ad-
vanced. In this half century a new world
has been created for women. In home and
school, in church and State, in the courts
and in the industries and professions, a re-
formation has been effected, all the more to
be valued because achieved through the
slow processes of evolution rather than the
harsh measures of revolution.
	In the political world, the last stronghold
of prejudice, the rights of women are being
recognized. We have today a President
and Congress elected in part by the votes of
women. The constitutions of Wyoming,
Colorado, Utah and Idaho secure to women
the full suffrage. In the two hundred and
eighty-five incorporated cities of Kansas,
women exercise municipal suffrage. In
twenty-two States they possess school suf-
frage.
	The Twentieth Century belongs equally
to men and women. All citizens of the
United States, all friends from other
countries are cordially invited to co-operate
in celebrating the semi-centennial of the
first convention held for what Wendell
Phillips declared to be “the most momen-
teous reform that has yet been launched on
the world."
	Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Honorary Presi-
dent; Susan B. Anthony, President; Anna
Howard Shaw, Vice-President at Large;
Rachel Foster Avery, Cor. Secretary; Alice
Stone Blackwell, Rec. Secretary; Harriet
Taylor Upton, Treasurer; Laura Clay,
Auditor; Catharine Waugh McCulloch,
Auditor; Carrie Chapman Catt, Chairman
Organization Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

SEVIER STAKE.
	THE semi-annual conference of the Sevier
Stake Relief Society convened at Richfield
Oct. 22 and 23, 1897, President Elizabeth
B. Bean presiding. An excellent spirit pre-
vailed throughout the conference, although
a spirit of sadness lingered in the hearts of
all present, caused by the recent death of
our beloved sister, Emma Spafford, second
counselor to the president of the Stake.
Many good instructions were given, the
principal speakers being President Bean,
Counselor Thurber, Sister Lucy Hepplar,
Patriarch George W. Bean and Presidents
Seegmiller and Horne.
	The subjects treated upon were Temple
work, the building of a Relief Society house
in Salt Lake, the storing of grain, the care
of our children etc. etc.
	Thirteen presidents each reported her
Society in good condition, active and ener-
getic in good works.
	The conference adjourned for six months
and the sisters departed for their homes,
feeling to praise and thank the Lord for
the feast of spiritual food He had given
them.

[Column 2]
	Ever praying for the success of the “Ex-
ponent” we remain
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
			ELIZABETH BEAN, Pres.
			CELIA E. BEAN, Sec.
	Richfield, Nov. 4, 1897.
DAVIS STAKE. 
	The Relief Society conference of Davis
Stake met at Kaysville Oct. 28, 1897,
President Susan Grant presiding. There
were present on the stand President Hess
and Counselor Hyrum Grant, Sisters J. C.
Howe and L. D. Alder from Salt Lake, Presi-
dent Grant and counselors and others.
Meeting opened by singing “Let us pray
gladly pray.” Prayer by Counselor Hy-
rum Grant. Singing “The spirit of God
like a fire is burning.” Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and approved.
	President Grant then said, “Through the
blessings of the Lord we are permitted to
meet again in this capacity. I am afraid
we do not appreciate the blessings the Lord
is continually showing to us My counsel-
ors and I visited the northern part of the
county, we had good meetings and found
them all doing well. I want to encourage
the sisters to take the “Exponent,” I am
pleased to have Sisters Howe and Alder
with us, also our Stake presidency. I feel
well in pressing forward in the line of my
duty.” The branches of the Society were
reported by their presidents as doing well
and in good running order.
	Sister Howe said she felt somewhat diffident
being a stranger but knew the spirit of the
Lord was with us. The Prophet Joseph
Smith said this Society should be free from
the wiles of the world. The Relief Society
is educational, every member should be
interested in it. If requirement is made of
us we should feel that it is a duty. Spoke
of sustaining home literature, encouraged
the sisters to sustain the “Exponent” and
those who are struggling hard to make a
success of it. We should teach our child-
ren the principles of the Gospel and keeping
the Sabbath holy. “I can say it is good to
be here, I ask God to bless each one of
you”
	Counselor Mary Clark said “I feel happy
in meeting with you, I can truly say the
spirit of the Lord is with us.” Spoke of
the Elders who are abroad preaching the
Gospel, said she rejoiced in reading their
letters and their success. We should be
thankful for the instructions we receive
and be benefited by them. Spoke of at-
tending our meetings, if we will we shall
be better prepared to attend to our duties at
home. Prayed that we might have health
and strength to perform our duties. Meet-
ing adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing Dox-
ology. Prayer by Brother Rouche.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Commenced by
singing “Now let us rejoice in the day of
salvation.” Prayer by President Hess.
Singing “Stop and tell me red man.”
Minutes of the afternoon meeting of the
previous conference read and approved.
	Sister Alder then addressed the meeting:
“My brethren and sisters we have been sent
to you to day as visitors in your Society
conference, and it is not only a duty but a
pleasure in visiting with you. When the
Prophet Joseph organized the Society he
did it as a pattern of the olden times, I think
these organizations existed in the days of
the Savior. Your reports have been ex-
cellent, what a testimony it is that so many
receive the Gospel in different parts of the

[Column 3]
world. When we do anything in the Re-
lief Society we are helping ourselves, these
meetings are just our own meetings and we
can work a little extra to attend them.
Spoke about passing away, said it is like
graduating from one class to another. The
young women will have to take the places
of the older ones. Advised them to take
counsel from their mothers, referred to
Sister Marinda Hyde, how they loved her
as a president, if we live as we should do
and listen to the still small Voice we will 
know what to do, we should be careful how
we train our children, if we raise them as
we should we will have them again even if
they do go astray. Wanted to bear her
testimony that this is the work of God and
asked him to bless us all. 
	President Hess said “I have enjoyed the
spirit of the counsel, it is true that these
meetings are for the women, but the breth-
ren should be interested in them too, I do
not know of anything that is more useful
than the Relief Society, the way they con-
duct their business is good, the minutes are
correct, they bring to our mind what was
said at the last conference.” Spoke about
the necessity of attending our meetings,
said we have it in our power to draw the
blessings of the Lord down upon us if we
live as we should, and we should live so
the Lord will draw near to us and hear and
answer our prayers. Prayed the Lord to bless
the sisters who were laboring so faith-
fully in this organization and to bless us all.
	Sister Alder said “I think there is not a
soul here but what has been benefited, there
is a bond that unites the sisters that work
together. We do need encouragement, it
would not do for us to see the obstacles
that are in our path. I ask my Heavenly
Father to bless you all.”
	Counselor Jane Holt said, “I am pleased
to meet with you and I know that the
spirit of the Lord is here. I can bear my
testimony to the truth of this work and to
what has been said. Let us be diligent and
do our duty, our path is the path of duty
and let us sustain all that are over us. May
God bless us and help us to do right.”
	Counselor Hyrum Grant said, “I am sure
all who are here are blest, and I can say
that I have never heard the presidents give
in their reports with as much freedom as
they have today, these sisters that have
come here today have had the faith and
prayers of the people. Now if we are for
the Kingdom of God let us sustain the
authorities and those that are over us. I
can bear my testimony that this is the
work of God and ask the Lord to bless us
all.”
	President Grant then made closing re-
marks and conference adjourned for three
months to East Bountiful. Benediction by
James Sheffield.
		PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	BY [-]h[-] offic rs and members of the Relief Soci-
ety of Nephi, Juab Co., Utah.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to take from our midst our
beloved President, William Paxman,
	RESOLVED, That we recognize in his death the
loss of a father, a wise counselor and a friend.
	RESOLVED That we treasure up in our minds
and ever hold sacred the wise counsel he has
given, and strive to follow his example ever true
to the cause he so nobly and fearlessly de[-]ended.
	RESOLVED, That we tend[-]r our love and heart
felt sympathy to the bereaved family, his wives
and children and earnestly desire that the Holy


[Column 1]
Spirit may impart comfort and consolation in this
the hour of their sad afflic ion.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the members of his family, a copy to the
“Woman’s Exponent,” also one be placed upon
the records of the Society of each ward of Nephi.
			MARY PITCHFORTH, Pres.
			ELLEN L. GOLDSBROUGH Sec.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Emma Johnson Spa
ford who departed this life Oct. 9, 1897, after a
brief illness of only a few hours. Sister Spafford
was a gentle, unassuming Saint, the guardian
angel of her own home circle making it a para-
dise on earth for those with whom she was there
associated.
	For years she filled the position of president of
the Relief Society of A nabella, and by her
sweet charity and humility gained the sincere
love and confidence of all who knew her. On
Dec. 14, 1890, she was called to the position of
second counselor to the president of the Relief
Society of Sevier Stake, which position she filled
with unswerving integrity until the time of her
death.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our beloved sister and co- 
worker,
	RESOLVED. That we the members of the Stake
board of the Relief Society of Sevier Stake, feel
that we have lost a true and faithful worker who
was always willing to do good.
	RESOLVED, That we cherish her memory and
regard her wise counsel as worthy of emulation.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to her family, one published in the “Woman’s
Exponent” and one placed upon the Stake record
of the Relief Society.
					CELIA E. BEAN, Sec.
Richfield, Utah, Oct. 27, 1897.
MARY DEER DAVIES.
	IT is with feelings of heartfelt sorrow that we
record the death of our beloved president, Sister
Mary D[-]er Davies who expired at the residence of
her daughter in Samaria, Idaho, Nov. 13, 1897,
after an illness of less than two days. Sister
Davis was born in Nearth Abbey, Glamorganshire,
South Wales, March 18, 1831, embraced the Gos-
pel in 1849, and shortly afterwards assisted in
translating the Book of Mormon into the Welsh
language.
	She emigrated in 1854, and was married the
same year to David Woodwell Daveis. She made
her home with her husband in Salt Lake City en-
during all the hardships incident to the times. In
1864 her husband died leaving her with a young
family, dependent upon her own exertions.
In 1870 she married John Evans Price and re-
moved w[-]th him to Samaria, Idaho, where she
continued to reside until her death.
	When the Y. L. M. I. A. was first organized in
Samari, she was chosen president, but did not re-
tain the office long, being called to preside over
the Relief Society in 1878, which position she has
filled honorably and efficiently for nearly twenty
years. She was the mother of ten children, seven
sons and three daughter, five of whom survive
her.
	She was a faithful Latter-day Saint, yielding
obedience to every principle of the Gospel that
was revealed to her and maintaining her integrity
to the last. She has finished her work, she has
borne her cross, she has gone to receive her
crown. We have laid her down to rest in peace,
		“Till the rising sun,
		Of the resurrection morn
		Proclaims li[-]e’s victory won.”
						ANNIE BOWEN.
JANE BELL.
	MRS. JANE PELL, an age and highly esteemed
lady of Heber, [-]ied at the residence of her son
William in Bu[-]syille, Nov 7, 1897, at the ripe age
of seventy-four years, one month and twenty-six
days.
	Deceased was the daughter of Charles and
Mary Graham and was born in Amien, Scotland,
Sep. 13, 1823 During her journey to Utah she
buri[-]d her first husband, Frank Ladlaw, and two
sons. She was afterwards married to Wm. Bell
in Salt Lake City who preceded her in death
about twelve years.
	The funeral obsequies of Sister Jane Bell were
held in the Stake house of Heber, Wasatch Co.,
Nov. 9, 1897, and were largely attended notwith-
standing the inclement weather Sister Bell
leaves two sons and two daughters and many
grandchildren as well as a host of friends to
mourn her loss.

[Column 2]
	Sister Bell, better known as Grandma Bell, was
an earnest worker in our Relief Society. She
labored diligently in whatever she was called up-
on to do, always trying to comfort and soothe
others and encourage them in the Gospel. She
was faithful to the very last, her main utterances
being prayers and her last request was for her
sons to stay with the Priesthood She was of
that kind and loving disposition that none can
help but admire.
	We as members of the Relief Society of the
Heber West ward feel that we have lost one of
our most faithful members, but we realize that
she has gained a reward well earned and we
would not call her back, but will ever cherish and
crown with fond remembrances, her name.
		NETTIE MCMULLIN, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
JUAB STAKE.
	THE seventy fourth quarterly conference
of the Relief Society of the Juab Stake was
held in the Nephi Tabernacle, Sep. 10,
1897, President Pitchforth presiding. Sing-
ing “Come we that love the Lord.” Prayer
by President Wm. Paxman. Singing
“Praise ye the Lord my heart shall join.”
Minutes of previous conference read and
approved.
	President Pitchforth was happy to have
the privilege of meeting with us, had en-
joyed listening to the minutes. Spoke of
the spirit of unity that prevailed with the
officers in the Juab Stake, desired that those
who should report would do so with the
spirit of God, and that we would have a
rich flow of that spirit in our midst. She
asked it in the name o[-] Jesus.
	Sister Wilbey, president of the 1st Ward
of Nephi, gave an excellent report of the
ward, the officers were diligent and a unity
of feeling was with them. Singing “When
Joseph his brethren beheld.”
	President Christenson of Levan gave a
good report, they were striving to keep the
commandments of God and do their duty,
the needy were well cared for. She felt
well in the Gospel and desired to do the
will of God.
	Sister Udall, president of the 2nd Ward
of Nephi, gave an excellent report, the
meetings were spiritual and well attended,
the needy were well cared for. The teach-
ers gave excellent reports, and they were
doing well temporally as well as spiritually.
Asked blessings upon all.
	Counselor Hannah Jones was thankful
to her Heavenly Father for health to meet
with us in conference, felt that all present
would rather hear Sister Wells than herself.
Urged the sisters to be faithful and true to
every duty required of them and asked the
Lord to bless all and comfort those who
had been called upon to part with their
loved ones. He alone can give comfort to
the sorrowing heart.
	Sister E. B Wells was glad to be with us
and to see those that were present, but
would have liked to have seen a great
many more. She had visited Sister Zina
Young to see if she had any message to
send to the sisters, and she sent her love
and said to encourage the young women to
help in the Relief Society. Spoke at some
length on the necessity of the young sisters
attending the Society and getting an under-
standing of the charitable work. Said the
young mothers should come and bring
their babies, and have faith that they could
keep them quiet. Spoke very nicely of
the children and said to teach the children
when they are young that they may grow
up pure and holy. Spoke of the informa-
tion needed to remove prejudice from the
women of the outside world concerning the

[Column 2]
Mormon women and the principles of the
Gospel, showing how necessary it was to
have a bureau of information. Spoke of
the need of having a building of that kind
in Salt Lake City for that purpose. Sister
Wells said she would like very much to
hear from President Paxman, prayed God
to bless our beloved Sister Pitchforth, felt
that she had been a very able president in
this Stake. Prayed the Lord to bless all
present and that we might continue in the
good work.
	President Paxman announced that we
would have an evening meeting and said
we had had an excellent time, the spirit of
peace had been with us and the love of God
had been in our midst. It was very grati-
fying to hear such reports as we had heard,
that the Saints were so liberal and the needy
so well cared for. He had been interested
and edified in listening to the remarks of
Sister Wells. She had a good chance of
meeting people that were not in our Church
and of giving the information needed, and
thought it must be something startling for
them to know of the revelations of God in
these days. He was pleased to know that
they were inquiring into these things, it
gave us an opportunity of testifying to the
work established by our prophet, Joseph
Smith. Referred to the storing of grain,
wished we had more of it. “This famine
we have talked about will surely come.”
Spoke of the suffering already in the world,
wished that all would be interested in the
storing of grain, said “God bless the babies;
bring the babies to meeting, I love them.”
Spoke of the young mothers attending the
Society, felt it would benefit them; this
Gospel would be preached to every nation,
tongue and people, and the Lord would
take His own way in doing it. He rejoiced
in all the organization of this Society, and
said “May God bless and sanctify to us all
that has been said.” Was glad to hear
good words spoken of Sister Pitchforth, we
knew her life and hoped the Lord would
spare her, invoked the blessings of God
upon all, asked it in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
	Counselor Kate L. Paxman announced
that it would not be necessary to vote the
Stake and Local officers every three months,
Sister Wells had said it was sufficient every
six months
	President Pitchforth announced that our
evening meeting would convene at 7:30
o’clock, had enjoyed the remarks of Sister
Wells and felt highly pleased with the re-
ports. Singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Benediction by Bishop Parks.
Conference adjourned until 7:30.
	EVENING SESSION: Meeting commenc-
ing at 7:30 o’clock, President Pitchforth
presiding. Singing “Redeemer of Israel.”
Prayer by Patriarch Udall. Singing “We
thank Thee O God for a Prophet.”
	Counselor Kate L. Paxman most earnest-
ly desired an interest in our prayers that the
Lord would let His spirit direct what she
might say. Spoke of the blessings ob-
tained by doing our duty and said the ex-
ample was good, in performing our duties
we strengthened each other. Endorsed
what Sister Wells had said about the young
sisters helping the older ones in the Society,
felt that the young mothers were willing to
do all they could to help, there were bless-
ings that could only be obtained by per-
forming our duties here. Prayed God to
bless us with His spirit.


Counselor Hannah Jones was pleased to
meet with us, although it had been a great
effort to come this evening. She was
pleased to hear Sister Wells speak of the
younger sisters becoming workers in the
Society, many of the Older members need
rest, and one by one they are passing away.
Said it was a pleasure to serve the Lord and
bore a faithful testimony of this work, had
been in the Church forty-seven years and
wished to live faithful to the end of her
life. Singing “Mid scenes of confusion.”
	Sister Wells said, “Brethren and sisters I
am very pleased to meet with you, and feel
led to speak of the Prophet Joseph.” Spoke
of his goodness of heart and said he was
one of the humblest of men, was so kind to
children. He loved to hear vocal music
and was fond of poetry, was also very fond
of flowers, thought his favorite flower was
the moss-rose. He loved to see a cheerful
countenance. Spoke of the opportunities of
our young people to become great women,
said the memory of Joseph Smith was sacred
to her and she felt particularly anxious that
ther young people should know of his
wonderful work and power. Related many
other interesting things of Joseph Smith the
prophet, how inspired be was. Spoke at
length on the necessity of the young peo-
ple being educated that they may be able to
take the place of the older members, also
upon humility and of the great blessings
enjoyed in this Church by all. Closed her
remarks by thanking the sisters for their
kind attention and invoked the blessings
of the Lord upon all.
	President Pitchforth felt that the time
had been well spent, bore testimony to all
that had been said by Sister Wells and re-
lated her first experience in this Church.
She desired to go on progressing to the end
of her life and gain the blessings in store
for the faithful. Said to store up grain,
we shall need it, and asked the Lord to
bless all with a continuation of His spirit,
that we may work together in unity.
	Singing “Lord dismiss us with Thy
blessing.” Prayer by President Paxman.
Conference adjourned for three months.
	ELLEN L. GOLDSBROUGH, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall Saturday, Oct. 30, 1897, Sister E. J.
Stevenson presiding. Singing “O Jesus
the Giver.” Prayer by Sister Mary P.
Silver. Singing “O say what is truth.”
Sister Stevenson made some opening re-
marks, urged the sisters to read the scrip-
tures, especially the Book of Mormon, also
was very earnest in her advice to mothers
in regard to being careful what we said be-
fore our children, felt we had a great in-
fluence over those with whom we came in
contact and what an exertion we should
make to have that influence for good.
	The secretary having arrived the minutes
of the previous meeting were read and ac-
cepted.
	Sister Hannah Wright bore a most ex-
cellent testimony. Singing “The spirit of
God like a fire is burning.”
	Dr. E. S. Barney, who had been absent
from the city for about three months, felt
she had better give an account of her trip.
Said she had been in Colorado with her
brother and that they had had a very happy
time together. She told the sisters not to
be weary in well doing, and made some

[Column 2]
rousing good remarks, touched slightly on
politics.
	Sister Maria Nebeker said she had been
so much mixed up with temporal things
that she felt hungry for the spiritual. The
speaker thought that those who were born
in the Church were more careless than those
who had made greater sacrifices for the Gos-
pel’s sake; therefore she felt to have a
great deal of charity for the young. Asked
the sisters if they did not remember how
happy we were when we asked advice of
every kind when President Young was
alive, hoped those days would come again.
	Sister Martha Morris spoke of prayer,
said if our prayers were not answered in
just the way we expected them to be, the
Lord would show which was best for us.
	Sister Rawlings said she had been absent
for some time and bore her testimony. 
	Sister Maria Barnes spoke of her Temple
work and said when she was in the Temple
it was the happiest days of her life. Re-
ferred to a blessing Aunt Zina Young gave
her in the Temple and how it had been ful-
filled. Said her desire and intention was to
vote for good men,asked God’s blessings on
all our aged sisters and upon President
Woodruff.
	President Zina Young said she had heard
so many sermons today; every word which
had been uttered was a gem. Said she
heard Joseph Smith say that ‘‘he now turn-
ed the key for woman.” She knew that he
had and that we felt it now. Said those
who feared God often spoke one to another,
felt we were truly blest when we did come
together, and made many beautiful re-
marks. Said she knew our sisters were
good and urged the sisters to read the book
of Covenants. She felt proud of the
daughters of Zion and said it was her inten-
tion to visit her daughter in Canada, she
would be absent for some time. Asked the
sisters to pray for her that she might do
much good while there and also come back
home in safety. Prayed God’s blessings
upon us all.
	Sister Margaret P. Young spoke upon
unity and humility, and knew if the peo-
ple would all be more united the Lord
would bless us greatly.
	Sister Sarah Phelps spoke in tongues,
which was interpreted by Sister Elizabeth
Paul and was a prayer for the 
daughters of Zion and the rising generation.
	Sister Julia Samson spoke of the oppres-
sion which the people were laboring under
at the present time and felt that now was
the time which Brother Heber C. Kimball
prophecied of.
	Singing “The trials of the present day.”
Sister Lydia D. Alder felt the truthfulness
of President Woodruff’s remarks when he
said that the end was near. Read from the
Book of Nephi and the Book of Mormon,
felt that the chapter first read applied to us
today but felt that the Lord would work it
around all right for us if we would only be
obedient.
	Sister Mary Silver wondered if we appre-
ciated the privilege which we now enjoy of
having the franchise, felt we were indeed a
privileged people, bore her testimony.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson made a few clos-
ing remarks and announced that President
Horne was at a conference at Goshen.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “There is a feast of fat things” etc.
Benediction by Counselor Elizabeth Webb.

				ZINA H. BULL, Sec.


Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

[Union Pacific logo with the following written on it]
UNION
PACIFIC
THE
OVERLAND
ROUTE
WORLD'S PICTORIAL LINE

[the following is written next to the Union Pacific logo]
The
People's
Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt L[-]ke City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
"The Overland Limited" for Chicago,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City......... 7:00 a.m.
"The Fast Mail," for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver........................... 6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
"The Overland Limited," from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City.......... 3:10 p.m.
"The Fast Mail," from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver.................... 0 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
S. H. H. CLARK,
OLIVER W. MINK,
E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
JOHN W. DOANE,
FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
Receivers.
E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
