Vol. 26 SALTLAKE CITY, UTAH. JULY 15 & AUGUST 1, 1897		No. 4-5


CONTENTS:

	A Heart Of Gold—Clio.   Letter From Canada
—Zina Y. Card. Erratta—Frances H. Hanson.
Cooking Recipes. Our Near Neighbors 	The
Ship Brooklyn A.J.C Memorial Services—L. D.
Alder.  Visit and Meetings—A. L. C. In Memor-
iam. R. S. Reports. Relief Society Notice.
Notes And News.

	Editorial:—A Memorable Month Of July
Teresa Clawson Wells. Editorial Notes. Birth-
day Anniversary.

	Poetry:—The Lily And The Bee—O. F Whit
ney. Victoria—L. D. Alder.


THE LILY AND THE BEE.

WRITTEN FOR THE PRIZE COMPETITION BY BISHOP
O. F. WHITNEY.
A LILY in a desert land,
	Drank in the dewy air 
Of snowy crags and crystal streams,
	A flower divinely fair.

The restless breezes wandered by,
	None lingering there to woo;
Each sought a beauteous bride to win,
	But whispered, “She’ll ne’er do.”

Her chastity their ardor chilled,
	For she was as the snow
Crowning her native mountain-tops,
	Tinged with the sunset glow.

The lily mourned her lonely lot,
	And tears chased down her cheek,
Till at her feet a briny lake
	Mirrored each glittering peak.

Into its glassy depths she gazed,
	And found that she was fair;
Thenceforth she smiled a sweeter smile
	Than she was wont to wear.

Vain smiles and tears. The seasons came,
	But cared not long to stay,
Seeking the land of gold and flower,
	Whose every month is May.

A bee flew forth one fateful morn,
	Chased by an idle boy,
Who fearful lest that busy life
	Might his vain life annoy.

Besieged and sacked its honeyed hive,
	And gave to wind and flame
The precious fruits of patient toil,—
	All perished but the name.

The bee winged far its pilgrim flight
	O’er prairie, peak and plain;
It reached the lily’s rock girt land,
	And knew pursuit was vain.

It bent and kissed the blushing flower,
	Whose tears to nectar turned,
And sweetened all that bitter land, 
	By breeze and season spnrned.

They wedded in the wilderness,—
	The Lily and the Bee;
And men maintain ’twas then God gave
	The Land to Industry;—
	
Gave Utah to the Pioneer.
	Whose patient valor won
Our land to law and liberty,
	For patriot, sire and son,


Her golden wedding-day has dawned;
	Ring out a happy c ime,
And welcome here the wedding guest
	From every coast and clime.
Come  ack, come back ye wandering winds,
	And fickle seasons come l
No longer look for fairer lands,
	Find here your happiest home! 
Come frigid North, come fervid South,
	Come generous West and East,
And grace at Utah’s bounteous board,
	The Lily’s marriage feast!
			O. F. WHITNEY


[Column 1]
A HEART OF GOLD.

BY CLIO.
	JOHN HEPLAR walked straight on and
on—too deeply absorbed in his own
thoughts to heed where his feet were carry-
ing him. The conversation with Brother
Harper had made a deep impression upon
him, and he was trying to bring his rebel-
lious, heart to that point of humbleness
which would allow him to follow his ad-
vice. He walked on and on—past the
suburbs and outlying farms, until he reach-
ed the river. Here his steps were neces-
sarily stayed. He flung himself down on
the bank, and began throwing pebbles into
the water. This occupation not proving
diverting, he arose, sought a copse of wil-
lows, and flung himself on his knees, and
tried to pray. The result was something
after this wise:
	“Oh, Lord, if it is true that there is a
Lord. If thou dost live I am thy child
and thou hast placed me here for some pur-
pose. Thy servant has said to seek thee,
and it would not be in vain. Help me to
know my duty and do it. Amen.”
	His prayer was brought to a sudden
close by the sound of splashing water. He
sprang to his feet and rushed from his re-
treat, the thought uppermost in his mind
that he had been discovered. But it
proved to be only two cows splashing and
browsing among the reeds and grass of the
opposite shore. He heaved a sigh of relief,
and threw himself lengthwise on the
ground under the shade of some dwarf wil-
lows. It was a still and drowsy afternoon,
highly propitious to revery and—slumber.
	Already he felt better and lighter in his
spirit. His prayer had been anything but
humble, but it had been exceedingly sin-
cere. It had been a fierce demand for jus-
tice, rather than a humble petition for grace
and mercy. And in this, it was a sort of
reflex of his character. He was so beset
with failings and foibles, yet withal had so
great a desire to do right, that the conflict
had begotten a spirit of defiance, which,
though painful enough to its possessor, was
destined to bring him out of the toils.
	He lay musing on his situation, his hat
pulled over his eyes, until the drowsy,
murmur of the wild bees and the gentle,
lapping of the water on the banks, lulled
him to sleep. How long he thus lay, un-
conscious of external things, he never
knew. But when he awoke and sprang to

[Column 2]
his feet, there was a glad light in his eyes,
and a joy in his heart such as he had never
known. In answer to his prayer, God had
seen fit to pour out his comforting influence
upon him until he felt that he could go
through fire and water to attain the object
which he knew in his heart was possible if
he could but overcome the obstacles which
lay before him.
	He walked homeward with a brisk and
elastic step, formulating plans by the way,
all of which faded into the background as
new ones made their appearance. One
thing he did firmly resolve in his mind,
however, and that was that he should never
again seek after Grace until he should sur-
mount those things which had appeared to
him as obstacles in his path.
	He could not, however, make up his
mind to treat her as a stranger. She had
too long occupied the citadel of his heart
and feelings to be easily torn from that
position. Nor did he desire to do so, but
rather to strengthen the fortress of love by
every legitimate means.
	To this end he set to work. He had
never liked the prosy life of farming, pur-
sued by his father, and had been wont to
shirk all that was possible, so that he had
gained the reputation of being somewhat
lazy. This was not a true estimate. He
was, on the contrary, full of energy, but it
had hitherto been turned into the wrong
channel. All this he knew must be chang-
ed, and though his distaste for the employ-
ment was at this time as strong as ever, he
manfully strove against it and sought to
become interested, or at least to appeal so
until something better turned up. Great
was the wonder and satisfaction of his lov-
ing parents; great the wonder and dissatis-
faction of his former associates, at the
change. His spare moments he devoted to
the study of theology. This necessarily
led him into the past history of his people,
and he was surprised to find how ignorant
he was of events which he had considered
familiar as household words, and which he
had often voted a bore when he had heard
them discussed by the “old fogies” of his
ward. It made him blush now, even when
alone, to think of the disrespectful words,
he had used in relation to those brave, de-
voted, but unfortunate men and women
who had sacrificed so much for the sake of
their beloved religion. Not that he was
yet converted. Not by any means. But it
had been shown to him the path he must
pursue to gain the krowledge he desired,
and he had bravely essayed to accomplish
it.
	Two weeks thus passed away, and John
was becoming more and more interested in
researches. He had proven himself wrong 
so many times that he now began to doubt
whether he was correct in any of his opin-
ions. He had never gone to the great
Source of Wisdom for light again, so his
task was much harder than it would have 
been otherwise. He had isolated himself
entirely from the society of the young peo-
ple for nearly three weeks so that when
the morning of the 22nd of July came


[Column 1]
around, bright and beautiful, and he saw
preparations going forward for a grand
celebration of Pioneer Day in the Big Cot-
tonwood Canyon, he was fain to accom-
pany them, regardless of a former resolu-
tion to stay at home. He did not decide,
however, until the army of merry-makers
had fairly started on their journey. The
inspiring sounds of various martial and
brass bands made his bosom swell with a
feeling unknown before. The sight of the
long procession of wagons, carriages, caval-
ry and foot-passangers, old and young,
brought a lump into his throat and tears to
his eyes, though he knew not why. Per-
haps it brought to his mind forcibly, the ac-
counts he had been reading of the long
exodus of these self-same people from the
fertile East, to the barren West. What-
ever the cause, the feeling was there and
he was not able to quell it. There were
few people left in the town, and it looked
lonely and deserted. Grace had gone; he
had caught the first glimpse of her face since
he had parted from her, as she rode by in
her father’s wagon. He had just presence of
mind enough to bow, but for the life of him
he could not call up even the ghost of a
smile. He fancied, too, that she looked
sad and troubled, but then, he thought,
it might be only his imagination. As he
stood debating in his mind whether to go
or stay, the words of Grace uttered at
their last meeting came to him, “And if I
grant it,” (her pardon for his last offence)
“what guarantee have I that the same
scene will not be re enacted on the very
next holiday.” The words had stung him
at the time, as the truth is apt to do.
They stung him yet, so much so that the
thought decided him. He would go, and
prove to Grace that he could and would
behave himself, even on so hilarious an oc-
casion as a twenty-fourth of July celebra-
tion. In a short time he had his horse sad-
dled and was cantering after the retreating
train.
	“Why John,” said his mother, as he
drew rein beside his father’s wagon, “I
thought you were not coming.” But not-
withstanding her words, the light of pleas-
ure beamed from her loving eyes upon her
son as she spoke
	“Well mother mine,” he responded
cheerfully, “you see when you were all
gone and everything looked so lonely, I
couldn’t resist the temptation to come after
you, and here I am.”
	“You always did go after your mother
when you were a little shaver, so I guess
you hav’nt changed so much after all,”
said his father, with a kind smile.
	“We’re glad to have you along any
how,” said his mother. “That’s true,”
responded his father, “and so long’s
you’re after your mother, you won’t get
into mischief that’s certain.”
	There was a pleasant laugh all around at
this broad compliment of a loving husband
to a devoted wife, and all jogged along
merrily to a place selected for a camping
place, at the mouth of the canon. Then
came the bustle of camp life, the unhitch-
ing of teams, gathering of wood, making
of fires and preparations for supper. But
there was no excitement, no jarring, no
accidents; all moved along harmoniously
and peacefully, every age, sex and condi-
tion seeming to plume themselves for the
exigencies of the occasion. After supper
there was music and singing, story telling
and recounting of old scenes until the call
for prayers put an end to them and all re-

[Column 2]
tired for the night. The next morning
after an early breakfast, the vast company
prepared to ascend the long, rough narrow,
winding passage, known as “the stairs.”
In all of the duties devolving upon the
men and boys of the company, John
took an active part. And even in the
more feminine tasks of cooking and wash-
ing dishes, he might be seen lending a
hand when nothing more serious claimed
his attention. The strange part of it was
that he took pleasure in it. Never before
could he be persuaded to take part in any
public enterprise of the kind, even by his
presence; and here he was, the busiest of
the busy, flying around here and there, his
finger in every pie and his heart in the
whole thing.
(Continued)


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM CANADA.

Editor Exponent:
	THINKING a few lines from our far distant
home to yourself and my dear sisters, as
my interest in them and yourself does not
diminish with distance, I will assume that
your feelings for us are reciprocated.
	Our journey was pleasant and unevent-
ful, but it required a struggle on my part to 
leave my dear mother, under the existing 
circumstances that seemed almost impera-
tive for me to remain with her; but the
presence of my son Joseph I felt would 
somewhat palliate our separation.
	It is needless to state the meeting at this 
end of the road was a joyful one. It was
with feelings of deep humility and grati-
tude that I received the love and respect 
and he rty welcome of my many friends
here.
	As you know, Sister Josephine Booth
of Provo accompanied me home, and it was
a source of satisfaction that nature had
clothed herself in her loveliest robes of
green and verdant flowers to mark her
arrival and pre-dispose her in favor of our
far northern home as agreeably as possible.
	She has already commenced to fulfill my
anticipations with regard to the blessing
she would be to our dear girls here, who
have not the advantages afforded them, as
in many of the larger and older cities.
	We have introduced a Physical Culture
class in our Young Ladies Association em-
bracing the course as given in our new 
guide.
	The Relief Society is still looking after
the interests and welfare spiritually and
temporally of the sisters of this locality,
there are comparatively few who require
financial assistance, but there are many who
are willing and able to assist in sickness,
of which we have very little, or aid in the
many benevolent enterprises to keep means
in our treasury.
	We have organized one new society in
the last year that is composed principally of
young married sisters, who do themselves
the favor of being active members in both
Relief Society and Improvement Associa-
tions. ***
	Yesterday was our national holiday
which was celebrated in a primitive and 
hearty manner, as it was in Utah long
years ago. Speeches, songs, firing of guns,
brass band, hearty good humor, were lead-
ing features of the day. At night the
Pioneer Dramatic Company gave a spirited 
and enjoyable entertainment, with two

[Column 2]
plays entitled “Among the Breakers” and
“The Dentist’s Clerk.”
	It is a matter of surprise the amount of 
talent and excellent ability that seems to be
the natural inheritance of the children of
the Saints. Our Base Ball team played a
match game with the team from Leth-
bridge, in which local talent scored a de-
cided success.
	We have been blessed with copious
showers of rain, which give us almost an
assurance of excellent crops and ample
food for the coming winter for our stock
on the range.
	The sisters join in love and esteem for
yourself and members of the Central Board, 
and hope at some future time they may
have the pleasure of a visit from them in person.
	Ever wishing the EXPONENT success,
I remain,,		Your sister
				ZINA Y. CARD.


ERRATTA.

Editor Woman's Exponent:

	In the issue of June 1, a sketch of the
life and labors of Sister Isabella Pratt
Price is given. Please publish the follow-
ing corrections and omissons: Bishop J.
C. Hamilton, instead of Bishop J. C. Han-
son, and the word “Mill Creek” Salt
Lake Co. after the words “Feb. 25, 1897,”
in the second line.		And oblige,
			FRANCES H. HANSON.


COOKING RECIPES.

Green Gooseberry Catchup.
	8 lb. gooseberries, 4 lb. brown sugar, 2 
lemons sliced, 1 qt. vinegar, 1 tablespoonful 
each of allspice, cloves and mace.

DIRECTIONS.

	Disolve the sugar and spices, put on the
stove and let come to a boil, then add the
gooseberries and lemon, boil slowly three
hours; when done take out lemons and
strain, then lay the lemon on the top of the
can.


OUR NEAR NEIGHBORS.

	POCATELLO seems to be advancing along
the lines of moral reform. When it was
announced that the anti-gambling law
does not apply to drinks, nickle-in-the-
slot machines and other devices for fleecing
the unwary, the city council of Pocatello
promptly passed an ordinance prohibiting
them.
	GRADUALLY women are beginning to
come to the front in matters pertaining to
the education of children. In Bear Lake
County three women have recently been
elected school trustees. Mrs. W. C. Cole
was elected in Paris; Mrs. Joseph Jones in
Montpelier, and Mrs. James E. Hart in
Bloomington. We sincerely hope these
good women will show that they have a
higher appreciation of the responsibilities
attaching to the office of school trustee than
most men have. Men often do not become
enthusiastic workers in an office which
pays nothing but honor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
VICTORIA.

I.
HAIL, all hail Victoria! England’s royal Queen,
The noblest and the best the world has ever
	seen;
All hail thy Jubilee, honored woman, mother, 
	wife,—
Thy charms grow even sweeter and rarer with
	thy life.
Nations arise and hail the auspicous day,
For peace o’er England’s land holds universal
	sway.
Her shores round all the earth by many ships
	are found,
And the radiant sun sets not, beyond her imperi-
	al bound.
Great is England! and of her Sovereign proud,
	And rousing cheers of greeting arise from many
	a crowd,—
Long live Victoria! a woman brave yet meek,
Who mercy grants to all deserving, who her pre-
	sence seek.
Women of En land! speak on this glorious day,
Sing to all the world this glad and joyful lay!
The scepter held in a woman’s tender hand,
Has quelled the flame of War that maddened
	winds have fanned.
O, England’s royal Queen! so dear to every
	heart—
Such tender thoughts awaken, that cause the
	tears to start,
Thy sacred vow fulfilling—“My people shall be
	free,”—
They to thy yearning bosom are closely held by
	thee.
They are thy thought, and they thy slumbers
	wake,
Just and kindly laws made f r thy subject’s sake,
Endear thee to thy people, who loving homage
	pay,
And all implore their God, the tyrant’s hand to
	stay.
Faith in thy father’s God through all thy length-
	ened years,
Thrills through the thinking world, and Nations
	move to tears.
II.
A girl so young and fair, and by the world un-
	known—
Yes in thy youth, wast called to sit upon a throne;
Yet splendor, envy, nor one besetting sin,
Has ever made thy crown or jewels shine more
	dim;
No thought of wealth nor greatness, or power
	came to thee,
But heavy on thy heart, the great responsibility,
Brought out thy woman’s nature even in the day,
When England’s maids and matrons frittered time
	away;
Shadowed in thy mind and hov’ring round thy
	heart,
Were omens of the sadness, that of thy life formed
	part;
And though a girl, not thoughtless, but serious
	for thy years,
Came glimmering o’er thy future, the mist that
	falls in tears.
III.
A wife! gaze all the world upon this precious
	gem,
That sparkles brightest in her royal diadem!
Loving, faithful, ever mourning her Albert dead,
Elects alone, the varied paths of life to tread,
Her heart cry, “I love those who long loved 
	thee,
And where they are I often long to be;
When to the grave they’re slowly borne away,
I too will follow, if perchance I may.
Albert I am true to thee, my love, my love,
Most precious thought, all earthly things above;
I wait the summons that long delayed shall come,
’Twill call me hence away to my unknown

[Column 2]
	home.—
Then we shall meet, again clasp loving hands,
And wander by the sea, upon the golden sands,
Again the love of youth, the music and the joy,
For which my heart has yearned, unmixed with
	earth’s alloy,
Will crown our happy lives, that Death can part
	no more.
For life is everlasting on that Elysian shore.”
IV.
A mother! all the world looks up in pride to 
	thee;
And loving speaks of thy sweet simplicity;
Thy wisdom, meekness, pure and holy thought,
To England and to children a precious boon has
	brought.
Victoria! would that every mother, over every
	land.
Their children in obedience so strictly would
	command.
Thy counsel “Though Princes born to such a
	mighty realm,
Serve God, for of thy lives He is at the helm;
Love Him, honor him, thy mother ne’er forsake,
And for the world live not alone—then of His
	peace partake.”
Thy children’s children, even generations three,
Thou hast caressd and fondled on thy mother
	knee,
Thy words so full of wisdom given in youthful
	days,
Have turned their lives in faith, to walk in Virtue’s
	ways.
These children too, are jewels that sparkle in thy
	crown
Thy mother’s crown so glorious and grand in
	world’s renown—
There may they shine forever, until the perfect
	day,
And be thy precious jewels when thy crown is
	given away.
All things must fade, and change comes to us all!
The mist comes down in rain drops, even plea-
	sures pall;
The Monarch on his throne, prone in the dust
	must lie
While Winter’s wind or Summer’s breeze ever
	wakes a sigh.
Proud Ambition too must fall, totter to the earth,
Locked close within her circling arms—she who
	gave us birth.
We leave behind to others the cottage or the
	throne,
And lost on changing breezes falls our last sad
	moan.
V.
This day all hail to England! Mistress of the seas!
Whose flag so proudly floats on every ocean’s
	breeze;
All the world is gazing, they all the glories see,
And in future ages behold thy grandest destiny.
Thy poets sing thy greatness, and thy statesmen 
	too,
Tell of thy future prowess wherever skies are
	blue;
Thy ships sail the ocean, thine armies tent the
	land,
And “Live, Long live Victoria” is played by
	every band.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Written for the Utah Woman’s Press Club for
the Queen’s Jubilee, June, 1897.


[Column 1]
THE SHIP BROOKLYN.

CAPTAIN RICHARDSON.
	[Chartered by Samuel Brannan left New
York harbor on the 6th of Feb. 1846 en
route for California. List of passengers
on board the Brooklyn.]

[Column 2]
	S. Brannan, lady and child; Frances M.
Corwin; Robert Smith, lady and two
children; Wm. Atherton and lady; Q. S.
Sparks, lady and child. Mary Hamilton.
Cyrus Irae; J. M. Horner and lady; E. W.
Pell, lady and two children; Samuel John-
son; Emeline A. Lane; Wm. Evans, lady
and four children; Jonathan Griffith, lady
and two children; M. A. Meader, lady and
child; Peter, Mary and Elizabeth Poole;
Jonathan Cade and lady; Wm. Stout, lady
and child; Isaac Leigh and lady; J. A. C.
Austin, lady and three children; Prudence
Aldrich, son and daughter; Angeline M.
Lovett; Lucy Nutting; Barton Morey,
lady and two sons; Dan Stark, lady and 
two children; Mary Murray; Isabella
Jones; Joseph Nichols, lady and child;
Thomas Tompkins, lady and two children;
Henry Rowland and son; Sophia P. Clark;
Wm. Kettleman, lady and six children;
George Kettleman; Joseph Hicks; Richard
Knowles and lady; Robert Petch, lady
and two children; Elisha Hyatt, lady and
son; John Phillipps; Jerusha Ensign and
son; Eliza Savage; Jerusha H. Fowler and
four children; John R. Robbins, lady and
two children; George R. Winner, lady and
six children; Newel Boylen, lady and
three children; John Joyce, lady and child;
Zelnora S. Snow; Jacob Hays; James
Light, lady and child; Earl Marshall and
lady; Simeon Stivers; Caroline Warner and
three children; H. A. Skinner, lady and
child; James Scott; A. L. D. Buckland;
Hannah D. Buckland; Hannah T. Read
and child; John Eager; Patrick Mclue,
lady and four children; Isaac Goodwin,
lady and six children; Nathan Burr and
lady; Edwin Kemble; Charles C. Burr,
lady and child; George W. Sirrine; Abram
Combs, lady and three children; Mercy M.
Narrowmore and child; John Reed; Chris-
tiana Reed; Isaac Addison, lady and
daughter; Orrin Smith, lady and six child-
ren; John Thomas and Sarah Kettleman;
Joseph R. and Mary Ann Fisher; Lucy
Eager and three children; Mary Eager;
George Still, lady and three children; Wm.
Glover, lady and three children; Jesse A.
Stringfellow; A. G. Haschal; Ambrose T.
Moses, lady and four children; Isaac Rob-
bins, lady and two children; John Sirrine.
LIST OF DEATHS ON BOARD THE SHIP.
	Feb. 14th the infant son of Joseph Nichols,
aged 2 years 18 days. Buried same day at 11
o'clock a. m. in Lat. 37 N., Long. 20 W.
	Feb. 20, 6 o’clock p. m. Elias Ensign died, aged
57 years, 5 months. Buried next day at 11 a. m.
in Lat. 19 30 N., Long. 26 W.
	Saturday Feb. 28, son of John R. Robbins d ed
at 10 o’clock p. m., of scarlet fever, aged 2 years
and ten days. Buried in Lat. 316 N. Long. 25 W.
	March 6, the son of John Fowler, aged 1 year,
7 months and 28 days.
	March 7, 6 o’clock a. m., of consumption, Miss
Eliza Ensign, aged 20 years, 8 months and 17
days. Lat. 3 S. Long 27 W.
	March 14 10 o’clock a. m., son of John R. Rob-
bins died of consumption, aged 1 year, 5 months
and 16 days. Lat. 15.30 S, Long. 32 W.
	March 26, Edward Miles one of the ship’s crew.
	March 27, 2 o’clock a. m., the daughter of
George R. Winner died of cankered sore throat,
aged 6 months 7 days.
	April 1, 2 o’clock p. m., Silas Aldrich died of
dropsy, aged 43 years, 8 months and 20 days.
Buried at a.m. next day in Lat. 43 S. Long. 47 W.
	May 6, Mrs. Laura Goodwin died, aged 32 years,
11 months and 23 days. Her death was occa-
sioned by a fall, she left seven children. Buried
Juan Fernandez.
	A male child born before doubling the Cape
was called Atlantic and a female born this side
was called Pacific. A. J. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count [-]to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY JULY 15 & AUGUST 1, 1897


[Column 1]
A MEMORABLE MONTH OF JULY.

	THE mouth of July 1897 will long be
remembered as one of unusual events in
Utah, commemorating the advent of the
pioneers of 1847, emphazing in strong
terms their arrival and the attendant cir-
cumstances, and also the growth and pro-
gress of these vales and the intermountain
region and the industries and institutions
thereof. More history could scarcely be
made in a month in the record of events and
reminiscences than in this one, which in a
sense has been typical of the half century
just past. That this people and this nation
are just upon the eve of great events that
are to transpire, also seems to have be-
come a truism. A sense of uneasiness, of
restlessness and lack of confidence largely
prevails in the midst of the people, and
look at it as we will a change of some sort
seems imperative.
CORNER STONE.
	ON Thursday July 1st the corner stone
of the Brigham Young monument was
laid with all due ceremony and observances;
the place chosen at last after much indeci-
sion was at the head and in the centre of
Main St. on South Temple, the services
began at five o’clock. The streets near
and all available space was crowded with
people. Hon. James Sharp announced the
opening exercises. The Tabernacle choir
chorus sang “An Ode to Brigham Young”
composed by Prof. Evan Stephens, Prof.
Anton Pederson’s band joined in the ac-
companiment; President Snow offered an
appropriate prayer, then “America” was
rendered by the choir and band, which
seemed very inspiring to the assemblage of
people. Hon. Franklin D. Richards de-
livered the oration which was an eloquent
effort setting forth concisely, yet complete
and full, the great work accomplished by
Brigham Young in whose honor, together
with other pioneers living and dead, the
statue was being erected.
	Governor H. M. Wells then gave a short
paper which was more practical, not deal-
ing so much with history, but full of
momentous facts. Mayor Glendenning
came next, his remarks were a graceful
tribute to the true pioneers. The deposit-
ing of the leaden box containing the
treasures by President Wilford Woodruff,
the oldest living pioneer, was next in
order; the box contained names of the
Pioneers engraved on a copper plate, en-
graved likenesses of Presidents Wilford
Woodruff, George Q. Cannon and Joseph

[Column 2]
F. Smith, and photograph of Franklin D.
Richards, historian. Two ivory paper
knives, the handles tipped with carved
likenesses of Joseph and Hyrum Smith and
in each knife the inscription, “A token of re
spect from Brother Juchau to Brother
Brigham.” They were given by Apostle
Brigham Young and were originally the
property of his father. A gold mounted
reading glass in a buckskin cover inclosed
in a tin case which belonged to President
Young; the mounting was of California
gold brought to Utah in an early day. On
the tin case is engraved, “This gold mount-
ed reading glass, buckskin cover and tin
case was carried and used by President
Brigham Young. It is a gift from his son,
Brigham Morris Young, to be put in the
foundation stone of the Pioneer monument
Salt Lake City Utah, June 28, 1897. En-
graver J. H. Harrison 81 years old.”
United States coins 1897—$5 gold and $1.
50 cts. and 10 cts. silver.”
	Apostle Brigham Young then ascended
the platform and spoke a few words of
thanks and appreciation and said: “In
behalf of the Brigham Young Memorial
Association I pronounce the corner stone of
this monument laid, and in behalf of Presi-
dent Woodruff and the other surviving
pioneers and the pioneers who have passed
away and the family of Brigham Young,
deceased.” The benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Henson Walker of the
first pioneers, after which a chorus of child-
ren sang a selection and three cheers were
given for the pioneers and the. monument.
CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORS.
	Beginning with near July 1st came the
band of Christian Endeavors from all parts
of the country; train load after train load
landed in the city, stopping to see the
sights and to attend one or two of their
meetings, and hastening on further West
to San Francisco and the Pacific coast.
Many hundreds of them were seeing the
West for the first time, and were agreeably
surprised with the progress towards the
civilization that they imagined only existed
in the Eastern states. On Sunday July 4th
the Christian Endeavor people held meet-
ings in the large Tabernacle in this city,
President Woodruff having kindly tendered
them the building as their representatives
in this city had no hall large enough to ac-
comodate the great number who were anx-
ious to attend. In the evening our own
people held service there with the Taber-
nacle choir, Evan Stephens in charge, the
building was filled to its utmost capacity.
The sermon by Elder C. W. Penrose was
strictly upon the first principles of the Gos-
pel and the divine nature thereof. He was
followed by President George Q. Cannon
who bore testimony to the same.
	It would seem only consistent to con-
clude that some of the listeners must have
been impressed by the sincere eloquence of
the speakers and genuine truths so ably
presented. At any rate we have reason to
hope that much of the absurd prejudice                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
formerly entertained by them may be re-
moved, and that they will speak of the
people as they found them, kind, generous
and hospitable to the strangers within their
gates.
THE TRANS-MISSISSIPPI CONGRESS,
	The arrangements made beforehand,
chiefly the work of the secretary, W. H.
Culmer, helped to make the coming of the

[Column 3]
Delegates to the Congress from a distance
feel more than welcome. The ladies attend-
ing with them were the especial care of a
committee of ladies from the several clubs
in the city and were agreeably entertained
during their visit. Bands of music were in
attendance to greet them the first morning
of their arrival, and the Assembly Hall was
resplendent with draping, banners, flags
and flowers. The Congress throughout
was interesting and instructive and all who
were present to witness the proceedings
and listen to the speeches made on sub-
jects of importance to our intermountain
country, as well as to all the world, must
have felt themselves greatly benefited with
the information there given, and also,
through discussions pro and con.
UNVEILING OF THE MONUMENT.
	The firing of cannon, opening of the
Jubilee festivities and exercises, began at 7
o’clock Tuesday morning, July 20; this
cannon was brought to Utah in 1847 by
the first company of pioneers, and was
previously famous for having done service
at New Orleans in 1812.
	At 8 o'clock the veterans of 1847 began
to gather on Pioneer Square (better known
as “Old Fort block.”) It was a scene
that baffles description. The Jubilee
colors helped to make the picture less som-
bre than it would have been.
	The veterans of ’47 were headed by
Dimick B. Huntington’s martial band of 22
instruments. There were 318 pioneers in
line when the march began; the ranks were
well interspersed with women, whose valor
was not surpassed by men in those early
days. The line of march led to the Brig-
ham Young monument. At 11 o’clock the
exercises of unveiling the monument be-
gan. Hon Wm. J. Bryan was present at
the ceremonies and was vigorously cheered
on his arrival. Governor Wells, Judge
Zane and Bishop Scanlan were prominent
in the assemblage, but the most conspicu-
ous and impressive personage of all was
President Wilford Woodruff, the venerable
Pioneer of 1847. Bishop O. F. Whitney
introduced by the Hon. Chairman of the
Semi-Centennial Committee, Spencer Claw-
son, read President Woodruff’s prayer
which opened the exercises.
	The ode to Brigham Young was render-
ed by the choir from the portico of the
Hall of Relics. James H. Moyle made the
presentation speech which was extempo-
raneous and closed with the words, “We
present it to the public, in the presence of his
Excellency the Governor of the State, a
worthy son of a noble sire and honored
pioneer of Utah.”
	The immense multitude burst into ap-
plause as President Woodruff arose, then
silence fell again and the honored veteran
of ninety years said in clear tones and
audible voice while the great multitude
was hushed in eager listening, “In the
name of God I now unveil this monu-
ment,”—and instantly the Stars and Stripes
began to unfold and fall away from the
granite column, revealing to the people the
heroic, bronze figure of the great Pioneer
leader Brigham Young.
	Governor Wells in an eloquent speech
accepted the monument in behalf of the
people of Utah—in honor of Brigham
Young and the pioneers. At the close of
the Governor’s able effort, David McKenzie
stepped to the front and led the multitude
in a hip-hip hurrah three times. Apostle


Brigham Young with evident emotion and
amid frequent applause made a very bril-
liant and telling speech. Hon. C. C. Good-
win’s speech came next and was a dazzling
literary effort of great brilliancy and pathos.
The choir sang “America,” and just then
a telegram from Mr. Dallas, the sculptor of
the statue, was received with only the
words ‘‘Best Wishes.” Bishop Scanlan of the
Catholic church pronounced the benedic-
tion.

THE PIONEERS OF 1847.

	THE commemoration of the advent of the
Pioneers of 1847, fifty years ago, has now
passed into history; to attempt to describe
it in its entirety would be futile unless one
gave time and thought suited to such a
momentous subject. Yet the writer feels
to make a passing remark and wait until a
subsequent issue to make any kind of a
satisfactory report of the Jubilee. That it
was a grand success in pageantry every one
must admit, but the pioneers themselves
were the principal object of attraction and
every one felt that too much honor could
not be shown to them. The gold medal
given each pioneer as a souvenir, was
unique in design and served to represent all
that could be implied by any badge of
honor. Everything in the way of display
and festivity that could add to the happi-
ness of the guests of the City was carried
out in the program.
	The original pioneers were too seriously
intent upon their mission when coming
hither to look forward to such a wonderful
celebration, or such honors as were be-
stowed in word and deed during the Jubi-
lee now just past.
	That President Wilford Woodruff has
lived to participate in the Jubilee of half a
century is something to be grateful for.
The Lord has prolonged his life to four
score and ten, and many marvelous things
have transpired during that period of time.
Perhaps no man living can comprehend all
that has taken place as he can. That he
may be spared to this people while life is
dear to him, and until he desires to go
home to meet Joseph and Hyrum and the
Apostles on the other side is doubtless the
prayer offered in faith unto the Lord by
every Latter-day Saint.


WOMAN'S EXPONEN[-]


[Column 1]
TERESA CRAWSON WELLS.

IN the heart of Summer she passed away,
When earth was crowned with the fairest
flowers,
To dwell in the realm of immortal day,
And roam ’mid the bright Elysian bowers—
In that land where ete[-]nal summer reigns,
And the fountain of youth perennial springs;
Where music divine in its lofti[-]st strains
Through ages on ages exultantly rings.
	It is a painful duty to write of those we
love who have passed away from earth,
and especially so when one’s own heart is
filled with the sorrow of the parting; but
such entries must be made in the book of
life and left on record, that the name and
works of the deceased may be known in
the generation in which they lived. And
therefore, as one of a number of Utah’s
fairest daughters departed, we offer a
tribute of love to Teresa Clawson Wells,
the beloved wife of Governor Heber M.
Wells and daughter of H. B. and Sister

[Column 2]
Margaret G. Clawson of this city. As a
child the writer remembers Teresa as very
beautiful in face and figure, fair as a lily,
with long golden curls, and better still,
gentle in all her ways and beloved by her
associates for her unselfishness and amiabili-
ty. When quite young she came upon the
stage in the Home Dramatic company in
such parts as were suited to her tender
years, and was a great favorite with thea-
tre-goers, and as she grew to womanhood
she manifested considerable talent in the
histrionic art and seemed a part of the home
company though she did not follow the
stage professionally. She always had ex-
quisite taste in dress in all its details, and
her entire personality was charming to a
rare degree. She had great adaptability
and wonderful tact, both of which qualities
help one in making enduring friendships.
She was a devoted daughter and an affec-
tionate sister, and naturally a sort of leader
in her own family and among her friends;
and with the circle in which she moved she
pleased without an effort, really perhaps
because of the strong underlying sympathy
of her refined nature. Mrs. Wells died in
the very bloom of womanhood in the midst
of a life rich in all that tends to human
happiness, and when one meditates on
such a death, one cannot but say His ways
are not as man’s ways.
	On July 8th, in the morning at 7:30,
after suffering severely and with great
patience and fortitude almost beyond hu-
man endurance, Mrs. Wells worn out with
pain and physical exhaustion finally suc-
cumbed to the inevitable, and the bright
spirit freed from its earthly tabernacle pass-
ed from the loving husband and relatives
gathered around the bedside; but there is
no doubt she joined that innumerable com-
pany” on the other shore where there
were many to greet her who had known
and loved her in life here upon the earth.
Mrs. Wells was an exceptionally devoted
wife, a tender and true mother and well
calculated to entertain and do honor to the
position of her husband as the Chief Execu-
tive of the State.
	The funeral services of Mrs. H. M.
Wells were conducted at the residence of
her mother, 72 N. State St. (whither she
had been moved during her illness) at 4 p.
m. on Sunday July 11, 1897. The house
was beautifully decorated with flowers,
roses predominating, though there were
lilies and carnations in profusion, emblems
of innocence and expressions of love from
hearts overflowing with sorrow for the de-
parted companion, relative and friend.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney presided and
Elder H. G. Whitney had charge of the
music. The singers were Elders R. C.
Easton, H. G. Whitney, H. S. Goddard
and J. D. Spencer with Elder C. S. Burton
organ accompanist. The services opened
with “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers,” and after prayer by Counselor
Robert Patrick R. C. Easton sang “O My
Father” in his mellow and tender tenor.
Bishop Whitney made some consoling and
sympathetic remarks, after which H. S.
Goddard sang in full, rich tones, with
much expression the solo “She is not dead
but sleepeth.” President Jos. F. Smith
delivered a powerful discourse and exhor-
tation upon the principle's of eternal life.
The singers rendered “When the swallows
homeward fly,” and benediction was pro-
nounced by Counselor Wm. Barton.
	When the long train of carriages reached

[Column 3]
the cemetery the quartette sang “Rest on
the hillside rest,” and the resting place of
the remains of Mrs. Wells was dedicated by
Apostle John Henry Smith. The elegant
white casket which had been borne by her
brothers was lowered, and the mound of
earth when covered was strewn with the
fragrant flowers in every conceivable de-
sign of workmanship. Mrs. Wells was
literally buried in flowers. What can be
said to those nearest and dearest thus be-
reaved? Truly God can comfort through
His Holy Spirit.
“Oh, when the heart is full, when bitter thoughts
Come crowding thickly up for utterance,
And the poor common words of courtesy
Are such a very mockery,
How much the bursting heart
May pour itself in prayer.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE young women should read the
story now being published as a serial in the
EXPONENT by Clio. She is a young wo-
man Utah born, of good literary ability,
and will make herself well known yet as a
writer.
	THE next issue of the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT will be in all its main features a
Jubilee Number, and we shall endeavor to
make it as attractive as possible; the sis-
ters will, we hope and trust, consider what
this little paper has done for the women of
Utah and for the adjacent states and terri-
tories in the past, and not forsake an old
friend for a new. Make as many new friends
as you can but cling to the old ones who have
have been true in adversity as well as pros-
perity, and remember newspapers are not
published without money.
	THE Utah silk commission accomplished
the making of two silk flags for the Jubilee
which were used in the parade on the
memorable 24th of July. The flags were
of genuine home-made silk, cocoons raised
and silk reeled right here in the city—the
reeling was done by two young girls, Miss
Florence Harrison and Miss Maria Hor-
rocks, and the entire work was done, and
the flags were made under the direction of
Mrs. Margaret A. Caine, whose untiring
efforts in the matter of silk culture deserves
public recognition. One of the flags was
displayed by the Governor’s staff and the
other just next to President Woodruff’s
carriage.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

	ON Monday afternoon June 28, a few
sisters were invited by the youngest daugh-
ter (Zina Hyde Bull) of Sister Marinda N.
Hyde deceased and the late Apostle Orson
Hyde, to assemble at the home of Brother
and Sister Bull in this city in honor of Sis-
ter Bull’s mother and some of her dear old
friends. The parlor and other rooms adja-
cent were beautifully decorated with flow-
ers from their own garden and yard and
were delightful to see and also very
fragrant. The welcome was genuine and
the hostess as radiant as a summer morning.
Greetings over the guests naturally fell
back upon old times in Kirtland, Missouri
and Nauvoo, and many things were called
to mind which were new to the younger
women. Later on supper was announced
and the five o’clock tea was delicious,


though very few indeed of the guests
took tea; ice cream, strawberries and cake,
after several other courses of more substan-
tial viands, and the enjoyment was
heightened by the easy flow of conversa-
tion, much of it relating to Sister Hyde
whose natal day was memorialized in com-
ing together. Twelve years before we had
been invited by the one whose memory we
were perpetuating. At the tea table were
Sisters Jane B. Taylor, wife of President
John Taylor, Mary Ann Hyde, wife of
Apostle Orson Hyde, Zina D. H. Young
wife of President Brigham Young, Bath-
sheba W. Smith wife of Apostle George A
Smith, and Sisters M. Isabella Horne,
Sarah M. Kimball, Julia C. Howe, Emme-
line B. Wells, Annie T. Hyde, Lydia D.
Alder, Maria Y. Dougall and Phebe Y.
Beatie, Martia Hyde and Ida Felt.
	In the evening Brother Bull and Brother
Aurelius Miner came in, also Brother
Joseph Bull Jun. and his wife and a little
meeting was held with singing, prayer and
speaking, and the gifts of the Gospel were
manifest.
	Brother and Sister Bull who have only
been married a few months received many
hearty congratulations from the guests,
with every good wish for their prosperity
and future happiness.
	Sister Marinda N. Hyde was a conspic-
uous figure in the early days of the
Church, and was always greatly admired
for her sterling integrity to the Gospel
through great trials, and in herself possess-
ed an attractive personality. She was per-
haps unsurpassed as a housekeeper of “the
old school;” she had wonderful executive
ability and was a wise and prudent Presi-
dent of the 17th Ward Relief Society for
about twenty years. Her example is
worthy of emulation by the daughters of
Zion in all those attributes and virtues
which make a woman of strong and re-
markable character.


WOMAN’S 	EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MEMORIAL SERVICES

OF THE MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
JOSEPH AND PATRIARCH HYRUM SMITH.

	ON Sunday evening the 27th of June,
very impressive services were rendered by
the Sabbath School of the 2nd Ward in the
ward meeting house, the occasion being
the anniversary of the martyrdom of the
Prophet Joseph, fifty-three years ago. The
building was packed by an attentive con-
gregation, on whom a silent awe rested
throughout the exercises and the strictest
of attention was given.
	“Joseph Smith’s First Prayer” was
sung by the school. A prayer was offered
by Counselor Paul Olsen, followed by a
beautiful sacramental hymn, as that or-
dinarice was administered. Also a touch-
ing quartette by members of the School,
“Galilee,” Sister Jessie Malin being the
leading voice. Another quartette, “He
Knows” was beautifully sung by Brothers
John Robinson and Thomas Ashworth,
Sisters Dean Caine Alder and Nora Lynch.
	The Kindergarten class, Sister Amy B.
Lyman teacher, was represented by little
Vera Shimmons, who so clearly recited the
story of the little children who prayed for
the Prophet Joseph, when he said to his
guards “You can go home tonight, God
will hear the little children who have pray-
ed for me, and I shall be safe.”
	The Primary class, Sister Lena B. Davis

[Column 2]
teacher, was represented by little Hazel
White, a grand-daughter of Apostle Orson
Hyde, who recited a poem composed for
the occasion by her teacher; her costume
was that of a moss rosebud, and it was in
the flower garden of Sister S. M. Kimball
that the Prophet so admired this lovely
flower.
	The thrilling strains of “Praise to the
man who comuned with Jehovah’’ echoed
and re-echoed through the building as the
school sang the hymn. Sister Edith Lov-
sey of the Theological class gave the history
of Joseph until the Church was organized,
in a pleasing manner. She was followed
by Brother John H. Sainsbury, who related
the testimony of the “Three” and the
“Eight witnesses” to the validity of the
Book of Mormon, in a clear and forcible
voice.
	“O, My Father” was tenderly sung by
Sister Dean Caine Alder, Brother C. D.
Schettler very sweetly accompanying her
on the guitar. Brother C. Hyldahl fol-
lowed, describing in an impressive manner
the dedication of the Kirtland Temple and
the glorious visions given on that occasion.
Then the revered melody “A poor wayfar-
ing man of grief” softly fell upon the ear,
the congregation joining in the hymn.
The vision of the Prophet Joseph, Patriarch
Hyrum, Elders John Taylor and Willard
Richards incarcerated in the old jail at
Carthage, sadly rose to view. Brother
Taylor saying he felt a sense of oppression
as of impending danger, when the Prophet
requested him to sing the hymn a second
time. Thoughts and feelings were awaken-
ed that are so well known to the Latter-day
Saints.
	The martyrdom of the Prophet and
Patriarch was concisely and solemnly
given by the teacher of the Theology class,
Sister Lydia D. Alder. “Give me back
my prophet dear” was recited by Rida
Taylor, a grand-daughter of the late Presi-
dent Taylor. “Weep, weep not for me
Zion,” was feelingly sung by the school
and congregation, thus closing these grand
and solemn exercises. A few words ex-
pressing pleasure and giving encourage-
ment to the Sabbath School were given by
Counselor John Gallacha.
	By the kindness of Bishop L. D. Hardy
the use of the Ward hall was placed at the
disposal of the Sabbath School for the eve-
ning, for which the Superintendency ex-
tended many thanks, and urged the parents
to come to the Sunday School and assist in
teaching some of the classes, and encourage
the teachers by their presence.  
				GEORGE D. ALDER,
						Superintendent,
				JAMES HOOPER,
				JOHN STRINGAM,
						Assistants


[Column 1]
VISIT AND MEETINGS.

			MANTI. June 30.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	KNOWING your interest in Relief Soci-
ety work, I venture to send you a brief re-
port of this Stake of Zion.
	Two weeks ago our honored President,
M. A. Hyde, accompanied by her counsel-
ors began their annual tour of the county.
They left Manti early Wednesday morning
holding their initial meeting in Sterling at
10 a. m. The Relief Society of this place

[Column 2]
is few in number, but the president, Sister
Libbie Thompson, has the spirit of her
calling, and although having the usual
difficulties incident to isolated and scattered
communities to meet, she is doing a good
work.
	At 2:30 p. m. the sisters met with the
Relief Society of Mayfield in their com-
modious hall, which was well attended by
both old and young. Sister Olsen, the
president, has had much experience in Re-
lief Society work and is energetic and
judicious in the discharge of her duties.
	After enjoying the kindly hospitality of
the people of Mayfield till Thursday morn-
ing the party drove to Fayette, holding
meeting in the new Relief Society hall at 1
o’clock with nearly all the members pre-
sent, as well as the young ladies. The
president, Sister Eliza Bartholomew, was
for many years the energetic president of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of Fayette, and is keen-
ly alive to the duties of her present office
and has an efficient aid in her husband, the
worthy Bishop.
	The next appointment was at Gunnison
at 8 p. m. The weather was quite cold
and disagreeable, and the cheery pitch-pine
fire which greeted our entrance into
Bishop Madsen’s dining room was only
equaled by the warm welcome extended
by the Bishop and his wife, who is the
president of the Relief Society and is very
energetic in her field of labor	Our meet-
ing in the evening was well attended and
a good spirit prevailed. Friday morning
we visited South Gunnison and held meet-
ing at 10 o’clock, returning to Manti in the
afternoon. On Wednesday June 23, Sister
Hyde returned to Salt Lake City, feeling
unable to continue the journey around the
Stake.
	Her counselors, however, completed the
trip, beginning at Ephraim on Wednesday
morning at 10 a. m. The sisters were
much gratified that President Peterson was
able to meet with them and also join them
at dinner at the hospitable home of Sister
Ellen Dorius, the Senior Relief Society
president of Ephraim. The sisters of
Ephraim are still maintaining their old-
time reputation for faithfulness and good
works.
	Our next meeting was in Fairview at 8
p. m., which was well attended. Here as
in other wards we had visited we found the
sisters up and doing, and especially zealous
in storing grain. The president, Sister
Pritchett, is advanced in years and in feeble
health, but her hands are well sustained by
two faithful and energetic counselors, Sisters
Peterson and Tucker.
	Thursday morning we drove to Milburn
where we were kindly welcomed. Our
meeting was not so well attended as on
former occasions owing to sickness. How-
ever, a good spirit prevailed and the Presi-
dent, although she has a large family, al-
ways seems equal to the occasion. We left
our team at Milburn and took the train for
Indianola, held a short meeting with the
sisters there, returning to Milburn on the
south-bound train as we were due at Mt.
Pleasant in the evening. Our meeting in
this city was not so well attended as usual
owing to a large wedding reception which
was in progress and to which a large pro-
portion of the people were invited. The
president, Sister Morrison, in spite of her
advanced age and feeble health is an up-to-
date president, and is always among the
foremost to respond to every call, and is
diligent in good works.


Friday morning we met as per appoint-
ment with the good sisters of Moroni, who
have purchased a building lot and are con-
templating the erection of a Relief Society
hall. We also found them diligent all
along the lines of Relief Society work.
	In the evening we held meeting in
Fountain Green which was fairly well at-
tended in spite of a wedding reception at
which we were invited to be present at the
close of our meeting. We spent a very en-
joyable hour with the young people, and
were royally entertained. Sister Johnson,
the president, although advanced in years
is still diligent and energetic, and is plan-
ning to build a hall in the near future.
Altogether the Society seemed in a prosper-
ous condition.
	We left Fountain Green early Saturday
for Wales, where we arrived in good time for
our appointment. We were pleased to find
that the president, Sister Midgely, had
nearly recovered from a long illness. We
had an interesting meeting and a pleasant
visit with the sisters at the hospitable home
of Bishop Reese.
	We held our last meeting in Chester at
2:30. The president, Sister Olive Acord,
had been working at a disadvantage since
our last visit owing to the illness of one of
her counselors and the removal from town
of the other. The vacancy was filled, and
many encouraging words were spoken, and
altogether we had a very pleasant time.
	We returned home Saturday afternoon,
having traveled 107 miles and held fifteen
meetings in seven days.
	The necessity of sustaining the EXPO-
NENT was impressed upon the sisters in
every meeting, and the instructions were
in the line of cultivating greater faith and
humility, and the necessity of greater dili-
gence in attending the meetings of the
Society, and also the storing of grain, ad-
monition to the young etc
	The visit of Sisters Bathsheba Smith and
M. Isabella Horne at our recent Conference
in Spring City was greatly appreciated, and
the Bishop and the good sisters of Spring
City vied with each other in entertaining
the guests and otherwise contributing to its
success.		Your sister in the Gospel,
							A. L. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	IT becomes our painful duty to record the
death of one of the dear sisters of our Relief
Society, Sister Hulda Mariah Ho den Heath who
died in Thurber, Wayne Co., Utah, May 24, 1897.
She was born November 29, 1824 in Tenn. Wayne
Co., and received the Gospel in 1838 by George
P. Dykes. Emigrated to Nauvoo in 1841 and at-
tended the funeral of our dear, beloved prophet
and patriarch Joseph and Hyrum Smith. She
was married and with her husband received her
endowments in the Nauvoo Temple a few days
before President Brigham Young and Heber C
Kimball left Nauvoo to find a home for the
Saints. In the year 1851 they came to Salt Lake
valley and settled on the Weber river, until they
were called to go to the Southern settlements
and help to settle that part of the valley. They
were faithful in the dischargeof their duties and
finally settled in Thurber, Wayne Co., Utah.
	Sister Heath was a kind and loving wife and
mother, and died firm in the faith of a glorious
resurrection. She was the mother of ten child-
ren, three sons and seven daughters, sixty one
grandchildren, and twelve great-grandchildren.
			SARAH G. MEEKS, Pres’t.
			MARY A. GARDNER, Ass’t. Sec’y.


R. S. REPORTS.

THATCHER, ARIZONA.
	MINUTES of the Relief Society of Thatch-


er ward, Arizona, held June 3, 1897,
President Elizabeth Moody presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing. Prayer was offered
by Patriarch Phileman Merrill. Singing.
There were present of the Stake Presidency
President Willmirth East, Mary Ransom
and Serena Merrill, her counselors. Roll
called, forty-four officers and members pre-
sent. Minutes of previous meeting read
and approved.
	President Elizabeth Moody made opening
remarks. President Willmirth East spoke
words of comfort and encouraged the sis-
ters in all good works. Said our trials
were to purify and exalt us, tried to im-
press upon the sisters the necessity of tak-
ing and reading the EXPONENT.
	Counselor Mary Ransom said, “Think
of the magnitude of the work these branch-
es of the Relief Society are accomplishing.
She exhorted all to be diligent in their
labors.
	Counselor Serena Merrill said she heard
the Prophet Joseph Smith say we could not
realize the greatness of the work. By per-
forming our duty we should have joy and
satisfaction in our labors, and strength to
bear all our trials. She had never felt a
doubt as to the divinity of Joseph Smith
and the truth of this work.
	Counselor Elizabeth Layton bore her
testimony and spoke very feelingly of the
long illness of President Christopher Lay-
ton. Patriarch Phileman Merrill addressed
the sisters; spoke on the duties of mothers
and said children should be taught at home
obedience, truth and virtue.
	Sister Mary C. Cluff spoke of the energy
and willingness of the sisters of Thatcher
in performing their duties.
	Bishop Samuel Claridge spoke of Sister
Moody’s good works, as she had faithfully
performed her duty for a great many years.
She was now going to Utah on a visit for
two years. It being necessary to appoint
some one to fill the vacancy during her ab-
sence, Sister Maria McRae was unanimous-
ly sustained in that position.
	President Elizabeth Moody wished the
good will of the Bishop and sisters during
her absence while in Provo. Felt well in
her labors and exhorted all to be united
and diligent.
	A great many of the sisters from other
wards were present in honor of Sister
Moody’s departure, as she is widely
known and respected. Our sisters in
Thatcher are among the first in charitable
acts. Recently a brother and sister had the
misfortune to have their home burned; they
came readily to their assistance, as within
twenty-four hours they received $140.75 for
their aid.
	At the close of the meeting ice cream and
refreshments were served to all present by
the Relief Society. Altogether it was a
very enjoyable time.
		SELENA PHILLIPS, Sec’y.
		DIANA J. ALLEN, Ass’t. Sec’y.


[Column 1]
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Quarterly Conference
of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society held
in the Fourteenth Ward Hall, June 26,
1897, President M. I. Horne presiding.
On the stand were her counselors, A. T.
Hyde and C. C. Cannon, Sisters B. W.
Smith, E. S. Taylor, M. W. Wilcox, Julia
C. Howe, L. D. Alder and E. J. Stevenson.
Opened by singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Prayer by Sister S. Gibson. Sing-

[Column 2]
ing “We thank Thee O, God for a pro-
phet.” Minutes of last Conference read
and accepted.
	President Horne said she was glad to
greet the sisters this morning, but
was sorry to see so many absent. The
country wards were poorly represented,
they should try and send a representative,
the conference was only once in three
months and we should be willing to spend
a few hours in serving God, He was the
Author of our being and all the good things
we enjoy, it seemed that our religious
duties were of a secondary consideration.
We should be spiritual minded in our
homes and let our husbands and children
feel its influence, our homes should be
happy homes where we cultivated His spir-
it. She had been on a visit to the South
with her children and grandchildren and
had a nice time, had spoken in public at
Richfield, was urged by her children to
stay but felt if was her duty to attend the
Conference at home, and had sacrificed her
feelings to be present. Said that the bless-
ings that were easily gained are not appre-
ciated as much as those that are harder to
get. She had visited at American Fork
and had attended the officers meeting, their
reports were excellent and the meeting was
filled.
	Verbal reports from all the city branch-
es of R. S. were given. President E. S. Taylor
of theY. L. M. I. A. said she was pleased
to hear the good reports of the Society; she
wished to keep in touch with the Relief
Society. In her travels was often asked to
speak in their meetings and realized their
duties were arduous. She knew all the
ins and outs of the financial affairs, had
been secretary a twenty-eight years. The
Society developed the sisters in charitable
works, and made them better Latter-day
Saints. Felt when she saw the aged sis-
ters tottering to the stand they should be
made honorary presidents and younger
ones take their places. The Prophet
Joseph was inspired when he organized this
Society. The young girls should be identi-
fied with the Society and help nurse the
sick, instead of the aged sisters. The work
of the Relief Society was spreading intel-
lectually as well as spiritually; said may
God help us to perform our duties. Closed
by singing “Do what is right.” Benedic-
tion by Maria W. Wilcox.
	AFTERNOON SESSION. Opened by sing-
ing “How firm a foundation.” Prayer by 
E. Webb. Singing “The Spirit of God.”
The presence of President Zina D. H.
Young, Sisters S. M. Kimball and Rachel
Grant was added to the stand, the meeting
was largely attended and a few country
wards reported. President Horne gave
some instructions and said she wished her
voice could reach every Society in Israel
and stir them up. felt many were wearing
out but their spirits were just as active. It
was a great labor for the aged sisters to car-
ry on this Society, and felt the young sis-
ters should have an interest in the work, gave
nstructions to the secretaries in having
the new forms, and sending in their reports
promptly.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde said she was
pleased to see the old faces as well as a
few young ones, and felt the Relief Society
sisters were the salt of the earth. A work
of love and good should interest all, was
interested in the report of the Fifteenth
ward, it was beautiful to hear the testi
monies and reports and felt the young sis


[Column 1]
ters should be engaged in the work of
charity, the presence of the young would
cheer the older ones. Prayed for all the
presidents.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon said she felt
weak to give instruction to her sisters, but
felt it was a grand work to be engaged in.
The young sisters did not see anything pro-
gressive in the Society, but in a few years
they would testify to the good it had done
them. Felt pleased in listening to the re-
ports, it was profitable to us to make an
effort to attend our meetings, we were
strengthened for other duties. Prayed for
the aged sisters that were getting infirm,
they had lived near the Lord and were
growing old beautifully, let us sustain them
by our faith aud prayers.
	B. W. Smith had been happy in hearing
the reports and remarks. She had been
fifty-five years in the work and was not
weary yet. The first meeting she attended
she was taught to embroider, and it had-
brought her in many a dollar since. She
had learned more of her religion at the
Society than any other place, learned to be
liberal to the poor and care for the living
and the dead, would like to see our ranks
filled up and more join in the good work.
Testified to Joseph Smith’s mission.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball said she felt
like talking an hour. The Relief Society
was organized after the pattern of the Holy
Priesthood, said when she saw Aunt Zina
walk in and saw how feeble she looked,
she asked herself where was the faith in the
Relief Society, why cannot our faith be so
strong that we can ask our Heavenly Father
to build her up and make her strong? We
should live near to God and do our part
well, she had been connected with the Fif-
teenth ward Society forty-five years, the
young people think our Society is not pro-
gressive enough. Spoke of President
Brigham Young organizing the Retrench-
ment Society and calling his young girls
together and giving them instruction, felt
the young people were being led instead of
being leaders.
	President Zina D. H. Young felt we had
been feasted and the Spirit of God was
here, every heart knew what was right.
Joseph Smith had turned the key for wo-
men. The young ladies would yet con-
sider it an honor to belong to the Society, we
needed wisdom to talk to our children, be
cheerful and happy. Felt to rejoice in the
Gospel and hoped to hold out to the end. 
Sister Rachel Grant was pleased to be
here, but had not heard one word, but
knew the good spirit had been here. Felt
to express her gratitude for her son’s recov-
ery, had the assurance that he would be re-
stored, and his recovery had been a testi-
mony to him and his children. Spoke of
her pleasant association with her sisters
and felt to acknowledge the hand of the
Lord in all things, and spoke of the kind-
ness her son had received at the Hospital
and from the Sister Superior especially.
Prayed for the blessings of God on all.
	Sister Horne said the Spirit had been
poured out on the speakers. She said we
needed the aged sisters to balance the
young, they had stood the trials, mobbings
and drivings and had been proven while the
young ones were led by pleasures aud ex-
citement, the proper spirit leads us to be
quiet and simple. Spoke on the calamities
abroad and preparing for the great events 
that were coming; spoke on storing grain
and preparing for a day of need. Prayed

[Column 2]
for blessings to rest upon all that we may
realize the importance of our mission. 
Adjourned for three months by signing 
“Praise to the man who communed with 
Jehovah.” Benediction by Lydia D. Alder. 
	MARGARET V. TAYLOR. Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE.

	WILL the Secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion
please send in their reports immediate-
ly to Margaret Y. Taylor. 33 South 1st
West St. Salt Lake City.

Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
Garfield Beach

Time Card in Effect June 15th.
Leave		Arrive		Leave		Arrive
Salt Lake.	Garfield.		Garfield.		Salt Lake.
*7:45 a. m.	*8:45 a. m.	12:25 p. m.	1:05 p. m.
10:15 a. m.	10:55 a. m.	*3:10 p. m.	*4:00 p. m.
2:15 p. m.	2:55 p. m.	5:10 p. m.	5:45 p. m.
4:30 p. m.	5:10 p. m.	7:00 p. m.	7:40 p. m.
7:00 p. m.	7:40 p. m.	9:00 p. m.	9:40 p. m.
*Daily except Sundays.
	Olsen’s orchestra every afternoon and evening.
Boating, bathing and dancing. Fare 50c. Depot
corner First South and Fourth West. City ticket
office under Masonic hall, corner Second South and
West Temple streets.
				D. E. BURLEY, G. P. & T. A.

[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[to the right of the logo]
The
People’s
Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol- 
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited” for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City		7:00 a.m. 
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
 	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and 
	Denver						6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi- 
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
Denver and Park City				3:10 p.m.
“The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas 
	City and Denver				3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLIVER W. MINK,
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
		JOHN W. DOANE,
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT, 
						Receivers.
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
	H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


MRS. MARGARET O. WILSON OLIPHANT
author, born in 1828, who died June 26,
was buried in Eaton cemetery almost under
the shadow of Windsor Castle. Queen
Victoria sent a wreath of flowers and the
inscription “A mark of admiration and re-
spect from Victoria, R. I.” Shortly before
her death Mrs. Oliphant completed a
personal life of the Queen. Mrs. Oliphant
generally wrote at night after her family
and guests had retired, and she frequently
wrote until early in the morning.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. MCKINLEY has secured the ap-
pointment of Miss Hattie Gault, her tutor
at Brooks Hall Seminary thirty years ago,
as postmistress at Media, Ohio.
	MRS. JOSEPHINE R. NICOLS, who had
charge of the W. C. T. U. exhibit and
headquarters at the Paris Exposition, and
also at the World’s Fair, recently died at
her home in Indianapolis. She was a
strong woman and a great help to the
W. C. T. U. 				—Ex.
	THE University of Wisconsin has creat-
ed a new office, that of “Dean of women,”
and has appointed as Dean, Miss Annie
Crosby Emery of Ellsworth, Maine, A. B.
Bryn Mawr College 1892—holder of the
European Fellowship of the class, and Ph.
D. 1896
	JEAN INGELOW, the poet and novelist,
died in London July 19. She was born in
Boston, Lincolnshire, England, in 1820.
Ten years ago Miss Frances Willard pro-
posed and Dr. Chauncey M. Depew seconded
the motion, that Queen Victoria should ap-
point Miss Ingelow poet laureate, but the
suggestion was not accepted.
	MRS. M. J. WHITMAN, president of the
State Suffrage association, is making an ex-
cellent record as a member of the board of
regents of the State University. One of
her fellow regents is reported saying that
Mrs. Whitman is the most diligent and
efficient member of the board. This will
not surprise anybody except a few fossils
who cannot get it through their heads that
women have brains of just as fine texture
as men.
	BOISE CITY is entering upon a municipal
campaign. The indications are that it will
be a spirited contest. This is an excellent
opportunity for the women of the capital
city to set an example to their sisters
throughout the state. The women of Boise
can no doubt absolutely dictate the result
of the election. Will they do it and do it
right?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.


VOL. 26		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1897.		No 6.


CONTENTS:
	Our Jubilee—Ruth M. Fox. Death of Sister S.
A. Dwyer—L. D. Alder. Old Folk’s Day—E.
Crane Watson.  Testimony Of Healing—Emma
R. Keller. U. W. P. C.—Orielle Curtis.  Letter
From Mexico—S. T. B. Pioneers Of Utah—
Annie Laura Hyde. A Heart Of Gold—Clio.
Ladies Semi-Monthly, Mee ing—Zina H. Bull.
	EDITORIAL:—The Jubilce Number. A Pleasant
Party. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Jubilee Poem—Emily H. Woodman-
see. Utah’s Golden Day—L. L Greene Rich-
ards.


[Column 1]
JUBILEE POEM

THE UTAH PIONEER JOURNEY.
Now! let the Scroll of Time awhile unroll—
	That briefly we may scan on history’s page—
A pilgri age of Fifty years ago,
	Fraught with importance to this wondrous age.

Behold! a company of Refugees,
Inspired with courage and with faith sublime,
Wending their way toward a distant clime,
Crossing the prairies, vast as mighty seas.

Obeying thus, the mystic voice of Fate,
The overruling force of Destiny,
Fulfilling thus the marv’lous prophecies—
By ancient Seers and one* of later date.

Westward! these sturdy pilgrim’s feet are bent,
Trusting—that where “The Rocky Mountains
	rise,”
They yet will pitch their tents ’neath sheltering
	skies.
Upon “the backbone of the continent.”

And live in peace and truly realize—
Freedom of Conscience, to the r hearts content,
And build new homes—and Temples grand and
	great,

And there withal uprear a mighty State.
Most dang’rous is the pilgrims trackless way—
Beset by barbarous tribes, who nothing spare;
Woe! to the “pale face” who becomes their
	prey.
Woe! to the Trespasser, within their Lair.

Ferocious wolves, howl out their fierce desires,—
All through the night and spoil the exiles sleep,
And glare, with baleful eyes upon the fires
That faithful watchmen in their turn must keep.

At early dawn, the bugles startling call—
Stirs all the camp, to get an early meal,
The hymn of praise is sung, and one and all,
Entreat the Lord, to guard and guide them still.

Fresh as Creation’s morn the earth appears;
The plodding oxen quite good natur’d seem,
And light of heart, these hopeful pioneers
Move forward, trusting to the power Supreme.

Anon, perforce they halt, beside a river—
That must be crossed, however deep or wide
Minus a bridge, of any kind whatever
Yet, undismayed, they reach the other side,
And safely land their chattels and their teams,
And once more bid fare-well to waking dreams.

Thus weeks and months roll past until at last—
Their eyes behold the tow’ring Wasatch heights,
The outstretch’d chains of Everlasting hills
Out-ranked by few of Nature’s grandest sights.


[Column 2]
Now from the Western slope, the pilgrims gaze
Upon the Canaan of the Latter days.
So interwoven with their fondest dreams,
Alas! how undesirable it seems,
And still they look, and strive to voice in vain
The mixed emotions, that their hearts contain,
And men ally and naturally they ask—
Will all our efforts prove a hopeless task ?
Can arid, wastes—tired human frames sustain ?
Or must we still march on, and on, again ?
But Brigham Young, their Leader, by God’s
	grace,
Decisive y exclaims “This is the place!”

Weary and rough they look, and travel stain’d
What does it matter, now the goal is gain’d?
Yet Fashion’s votaries scarcely would admire—
These tourists in such worse for wear attire,
But nobler Heroes! God will never make—
Than these brave Mormons, who for conscience
	sake—
Sought out the valleys of the Great Salt Lake.

Like stately sentinels, so tall and grand—
The mountains looked on valleys, almost bare;
Scant vegetation languished in despair,
And desolation frown’d upon the land.

Mark how the hands of toil have changed the
	soil,
And turn’d the torrents from the snow-clad hills,
Into a mul itude of sparkling rills,
That from the desert wilds, removed the Ban,
And well rewards the patient husbandman.
Doubtless, the approbating smile of God—
Rests upon ev’rything, and ev’rywhere,
And vivifies and beautifies the sod,
In answer to the laborers toil and prayer.

“The solitary places shall be glad,”
“The wilderness shall blossom as the rose,”
Thus sang the ancient Seer: and thus the New,
And blessed are their eyes who gladly see,
On this auspicious day of Jubilee
The confirmation of the promise true.

SONG.
List! the jubilant echoes o’er mountain
	heights ringing
List! the beautiful valleys resounding with
	praise,
List! the streams and the fountains together are
	singing—
A chorus of joy, on this day of all days.

The sweet throated wa blers, are blending their
	voices,
As upward, and upward, unfettered they soar;
Oh come all ye people while Nature rejoices,
And render Him thanks,whom the Angels adore.

Shall the outcome of Faith be ascribed to man’s
	shrewdness,
Now the once dreary waste ike an Eden
	appears?
Shall we dare o deny ’twas God’s infinite good-
	ness,
That hitherward guided our brave pioneers?

CHORUS
Praise the Lord, Praise the Lord! and the Pion-
	eers too!
The Founders of Utah, undaunted and true!
Hail! Hail! to the Heroes whose debtors are
	we—
For this great Jubilee! Utah’s grand Jubilee!
			EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
*Joseph Smith.


OUR JUBILEE.

READ AT THE U. W. P. C. JULY 31, 1897.
	THE greatness of our Utah, and her abili- 
ty to display it surely cannot be doubted
after what has been witnessed by the hosts
of people who have invaded our borders 
during Jubilee week. Of the splendid
exercises, magnificent pageantry, gran-
deur and immensity I shall have little
to say, as this was well written up in the
all the daily papers and is now a thing of 
the past, and will take its place in history
as one of the great events of the Rocky
Mountain region. However, I feel that
in justice I must make mention of some of
the facts. The Counties made a fine show-
ing, exhibiting the products and industries
of the State. Colorado had a beautiful
float, the loftiest one in the procession, 
which was much appreciated. It was a
graceful way of manifesting her sisterly
feeling. The Silk worm Float was uniqne
and instructive. The Sego Lily and the-
Z. C. M. I. Fairy Float were simply en-
chanting. Then there was the Salt
Fountain, The Car of all Nations, The
Queen and her attendants, and more pri-
vate floats. In fact all were worthy of
special mention, and there must have been
scores of them; but to me there was some-
thing grander and deeper, that made a far
more lasting impression than all this
gorgeous splendor. First of all was the-
remnant of that noble band of Pioneers
representing in themselves patience, loyal-
ty, bravery and endurance, and proving
by the part they took in the celebration
that their indomitable will and energy was
by no means exhausted How proudly
they marched to the Pioneer Monument
and participated in the unveiling thereof !
What a change since despised and rejected
they had sought a home in the Great
American Desert! How their thoughts
flew back to the time they first beheld the
Western sun setting upon this then arid
waste. Their beloved leader and prophet
lying in his carriage worn with sickness
and fatigue. With no home but the broad
expanse before them, hemmed in by the
everlasting hills which seemed to be the
walls upon which the clear, blue sky above
them rested. And even in their most
sanguine dreams they could not have seen
this day, when surrounded by thousands
and ten of thousands of people of various
sects and creeds, showering upon them the
greatest honors men could bestow, they
would amid inspiring music, loud huzzas
and booming cannon, see a monument to
themselves surmounted by a statue of their
noble leader, standing at the head of the
principal thoroughfare of one of the most
beautiful cities in the union, presented to
the state; a reminder to future generations
of their own heroic deeds.
	True to life was the emigrant train,
flooding the memory with recollections of
burning sands, alkali plains, bad water,
fording rivers, or in lieu thereof riding
across on some stalwart’s back. Perhaps
we are climbing mountains, or descending
with heavy ropes attached to our wagons,


[Column 1]
pulling with all, our might to keep them
from tipping over. Again we hear the
crack of the whip on our little three by ten
tent, the signal for rising and preparing
breakfast, on a camp fire made of buffalo
chips gathered and carried for miles the
previous evening. Footsore and weary
we encamp at night to find that we must
walk a mile to get water for cooking pur-
poses. The cattle are giving out, we must
cache our treasured china. Provisions are
scarce. We must travel far into the night
ere we reach food or water for the famish-
ing cattle. The woeful tidings that a man
is shot while hunting falls upon our ears
or may be a little child is dead. Can some-
one find a winding sheet quickly as possi-
ble? Time is precious, we must hasten
on! These are but a few of the trials which
were borne with hopeful hearts, and prayer-
ful lips, singing songs of Zion, for were
they not nearing the promised land of
which prophets, and inspired men had been
singing all through the ages! Did not
Isaiah say that “The wilderness and the
solitary place shall be glad for them, and the
desert shall rejoice and blossom as the
rose.” The most pathetic sight however
in the great panorama was the handcart
company, the cheers and applause that had
been lavished by the multitude upon other
divisions, gave way to another kind of
emotion. The hearts of the people were
deeply stirred, strong men knowing noth-
ing of the hardships of crossing the plains
save in imagination, struggled to keep
back the tears.
	The greatest possible contrast to this was
the first railway train that arrived in Salt
Lake valley, telling of the hope and the
joy and expectation that came into the
hearts of the people as puffing and blowing
and screaming it entered the city. We
were no longer shut out from the world,
but henceforth would be a part of it.
Travel instead of being something to be
dreaded, would now be a pleasure. Friends
would be gathered and loved ones reunited.
Yea “They shall come with speed, swiftly."
	But the crowning glory of the celebra-
tion was the children. Was it not an in-
spiration to see them? Coming, coming,
and still they come, many of whom were
the offspring of the early settlers, a verit-
able army marching through the broad
streets of the ideal city that was laid out by
the pioneers. One could not imagine any-
thing but goodness and purity in, connec-
tion with those children, and indeed there
should be nothing else. Born of worthy
sires, unselfish mothers, who by their ex-
ample have taught them unwavering faith
in God, where the pure air and exhilarating
breezes, the lofty peaks and mountain
streams all sing to them of liberty, and
whisper of a better day for all mankind.
O, that they may prove worthy of their
inheritance, for on the children our glory
rests. May the structure so well begun
upom the faultless foundation, laid by the
parents, continue to grow and its lustre in-
crease until the rays thereof shall reach the
furthermost corners of the earth that all
nations seeing our good works may profit by
our example.
	The Utah Pioneer Jubilee was a grand
conception, most brilliantly executed, and
culminated most magnificently. The bene-
fits cannot be estimated by dollars and
cents, the effects will be more far-reaching
than we can realize at this time. Utah’s
fame was scattered far and wide, it was

[Column 2]
like sowing good seed that shall blossom
and bring forth good fruit after many
days.
					RUTH M. FOX


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
DEATH OF SISTER S. A. DWYER

O rest precious loved one under the trees;
	The earth with its care is far from thee now;
O bind a green chaplet with rich, rosy flowers,
	And rest it so lightly on they fair white brow.
And play with the sunbeams as they dance and
		glitter,
	Among the tall trees that border the stream;
O slumber and rest through the long golden
		Summer
	And dream a beautiful, happy dream.

	In the rich glowing Summer when the
earth is crowned with verdure and flowers,
when the birds are chirping to their young
in downy nests and the light wind sighs 
lazily along, we are called to part with a
life-long friend.
	When all nature is happy, the sky only
golden and blue, the tear of sympathy must
fall for the newly dead.
	On Wednesday, July 28, 1897, at her
home in the Seventeenth ward, Salt
Lake City, after an illness of some weeks
duration, surrounded by her husband and
entire family, two sons and six daughters,
the spirit of Sister S. A. Dwyer took its
flight into the Beyond. Sister Dwyer was
in her fifty-fourth year. She had been
patient through her suffering and had un-
bounded faith in her Heavenly Father. She
was happy and cheerful in her disposition,
and was loved most by those who knew 
her best. When the writer called to see
her a few days before her departure, she
expressed a longing to be “out under the
trees,” which so beautifully adorn her
home. They seemed to call her to rest
under their cooling shade; and so she long-
ed to sit under the trees, for there she
would be well.
	She peacefully and painlessly slept away
to another life and we who love her well
know that she is resting under the heaven-
ly trees, breathing in the elixir of life im-
mortal.
	Her funeral was held on Sunday July 29,
1897, Bishop Beatie presiding. A quartette
composed of Thomas Ashworth, Will
Patrick and others feelingly sang “I need
Thee every hour,” also “When the swal-
lows homeward fly” and “Earth has no
pain, heaven cannot heal.” Apostle John
Henry Smith, an old friend of Sister Dwy-
er’s, paid a loving tribute to her memory,
earnestly urged her sons and her daughters
to follow in her footsteps, to be faithful to
their God as she had been, to let her image
be ever present with them, that they
might be shielded from evil and sin. To
remember her words of counsel and live
their lives, so as to meet her with joy and
rejoicing when they one by one should be
gathered home.
	May the spirit of consolation rest upon
her aged mother, now in her eighty-fourth
year, and upon Brother James Dwyer, her
husband, also her children and grand-
daughter. May they truly live for the
better life, where there is no more parting,
tears or death.
	Loving hands placed many pure, rare
flowers on her white casket, which was
borne from her late home by her two sons,
two sons-in-law and two dear friends, her
daughters in spotless white following.

[Column 2]
There was no death, but the spirit of love
and peace. Tenderly she was laid to rest
on the hillside among the countless dead,
and the home which she loved will know
her no more.

There is rest for the feet grown weary with
		traveling,
	There’s a glorious home far away in the skies;
There’s a beautiful garden whose flowers are
		entrancing,
	They are found in the heavenly Paradise.

O there may we meet you out under the trees,
	When the air of the evening blows softly
		along,
O then may we greet you when the sun goes
		down,
	And join in your tender angel song.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
Sa t Lake City.


OLD FOLKS DAY.

	THROUGH the sickness of our secretary
the latest and greatest effort of our Relief
Society in Parowan has not been reported.
June 10 was celebrated here as “Old
folks day,” and as long as those heads
(adorned with the sixteen to one, or pure
silver) retain their memories that occa-
sion will be remembered as the golden day
of days
	Irrespective of creed, color or political
faith, all who had passed three score
or more mile stones, adown the journey on
this sphere, were entitled to a free seat,
with all the comforts and attention that a
bevy of good natured young people could
bestow, and at one o’clock the large, new
opera hall was filled with the honored
guests, seated around tastily decorated
tables laden so completely with the choicest
dishes that it was a perfect surprise, and
many queries were propounded as to where
so many good things came from; right
here our much loved President gave a feel-
ing poetical address of welcome, the bless-
ing was pronounced and the feast partaken
of in a way that all were assured that the
labors and generosity of the Relief Society
members were truly appreciated. After-
wards a unique program was rendered the
old folks being conspicuous for the spicy
speeches, songs and recitations they gave.
This was followed by the awarding of
prizes to fifteeh or twenty, Father and
Mother Hobbs who had lived together in
the married state, the greatest number of
years, the mother of the largest family, the
oldest Church member and others were
duly honored by receiving something use-
ful that would also be a pleasing memento
while life lasts.
	Several of our citizens contributed liber-
ally towards the purchase of the premiums
though the bishop’s donation far exceeded
them all, it was much regretted that he
was confined to his bed at the time, as he
had worked hard for the success of the
event.
	At our last general meeting many testi-
fied that the day was the happiest of their
lives and with tears thanked the originators
of the beautiful plan.
	Our Society is in excellent condition, we
are bound together by the cord of love,
there are many humble, earnest spirits in
our organization and your paper is enjoyed
with the many other privileges we have.
		E. CRANE WATSON, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
UTAH’S GOLDEN DAY.

WRITTEN FOR THE JUBILEE PRIZE COMPETITION. 
LOVED Utah! the eyes of the nations are on
		thee;
	In gladness, in glory arise, and appear;
Thy beautiful garments and jewels now don thee, 
	Salute with the name of thy brave Pioneer,
	Thy Jubilee Birthday, thy Fiftieth Year. 
Thy children come forward to honor and bless
		thee, 
Thy guests gather ’round thee, to hear and to
		see, 
What tales sha l be to’d by the friends who ad-
		dress thee, 
	What relics and gifts shall be brought unto 
		thee,
	To crown thy fair Statehood and show thou 
		art free. 
To listening thousands, thy story beginning,
	Recounts thy good lineage, birth undefiled; 
Thine infancy healthy, well-favored and winning—
	Then rich illustration portrays thee a child
	Full of vigorous spirits, courageous and wild. 
In Orient phrase, thou wast “salted and
		swaddled;”
	Developing early, precocious and strong; 
From pattern unique thou wast carefully
		modeled,
	As told in the voice of thy cradle-bed song; 
	And louder in strains which thy school-days
		prolong.
The Masters—thy Founders, were zealous in 
		holding 
	To courses and plans which were just, in their 
		sight;
Until in thy wealth and thy beauty unfolding, 
	The world is beginning to see they were right;
	To thy Nation’s great heart thou hast grown a
		delight.
Thy Temples unequa led; and man a dwelling
	With peace, love and innocence blissfully
		crowned; 
In flowers, fruits, grains and good works oft ex-
		celling; 
	Thy sweet singers rank with the world’s most 
		renowned; 
	With joy and thanksgiving thy soul may
		abound. 
Touch lightly, if need be, of sorrows and dangers, 
	Thy hardships and trials with shadows o’er-
		cast;
Today let thy children, thy friends and thy 
		strangers, 
	Rejoice in thy blessings, far reaching and vast; 
	Thy Golden Day dawning, the past be the past.
Yet tell of thy great ones, like Spa tan or Stoic, 
	How Brigham and Heber and Wil ard arose; 
Jedediah and Daniel and George A. heroic; 
	Hyde, Taylor and Woodruff, the Pratts and the
		Snows;
	And others, yet scarcely less valiant than those
Of the Pioneer men with their faithful com-
		panions, 
	Their wives and their little ones, dauntless and 
		bo'd, 
Who traced the wild plains, rugged mountains 
		and canyons, 
	No shelter to find, from the heat or the cold, 
	Too much, dearest Utah, can never be told. 
No luxur’ous couch, and no rest giving chariot, 
	Were shown as inducements that journey to
		take:
With Clara and Ellen and brave “Mother Har-
		riet,”
	It was for their religion and love’s holy sake; 
	And thousands have cheerfully followed their
		wake.

[Column 2]
The P oneer children, Lorenzo and Perry
	And others, if living, who came with the first, 
The little ones now, would be gratified, very, 
	To see those who shared both the best and the
		worst,
	In the days of gaunt poverty, hunger and 
		thirst.
Oft dark were the days, yet with pleasures enhanc-
		ing,
	The g oom was dispel ed, while with freedom
		and jest, 
The singing, theatrica s, music and dancing, 
	Were gaily indulged in, for ch nge and a rest 
	From the struggle for food; little thought how
		they dress'd. 
But all this aside, with the days that are olden; 
	Henceforth, happy Utah, thy troub es be few; 
Thy “good time” apporaches; thy Jubi ee golden
	Is charged with rich promises, sacred and new,
	For thy chas e, lovely daughters, sons oya and
		true. 
Young Utah stand forth, give thy rights firm ex-
		pounders
	Thy dutiful homage, bright smiles and glad
		tears; 
All honor and praise to the God of thy Founders; 
	Thy mountains Oh Utah! resound with the
		cheers
	Sent heavenward, greeting thy brave Pioneers! 
				L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
TESTIMONY OF HEALING. 
	The Latter-day Saints know that the
gifts of the Gospel are restored again on
the earth and among them the gift of heal-
ing the sick has been very prominent.
And those who are acquainted with the
work in the Holy Temple, (where many
afflicted Saints come with hope and faith to
be restored again to health) know the 
power made manifest.
	We the laborers in these holy places can
testify as eye witnesses that many have
received great benefits, and many have
been healed of their ailments by the ad-
ministrations of those that were appointed
and set apart to work in these holy places.
Among those who have been favored is a
young lady by the name of Mary Ann
Douglass, whom we wish to mention. Her
 foster-mother, Mrs. Olroyd of Fountain
green, Sanpete Co., was sick nearly all
winter and the young lady was her nurse
and constant attendant, being in good
health. On the 1st of April Mrs. Olroyd
died having hold of Mary Ann’s arm at the
time of her departure taking her along, as 
she believes, to the spirit world. These
are the words of Mary Ann to the writer:
	“When mother died she held my arm and
took me along with her, it seemed not far
to go, till we were walking in a nice grassy
place, ladies dressed in white meeting us,
shaking hands and greeting mother, but
they seemed not to notice or care for me
except my sister-in-law who had died about
two years previously; she was the only
one who recognized and greeted me. And
thus we walked around and saw many
people who knew mother, they all seemed
to be very happy. At length mother let
go of my arm when I again became con-
scious and found a few of the sisters who
were in the house, rubbing my body. I
was gone or absent about two hours and
fifty minutes.
	“When I got up and tried to walk I
was unable to do so, like one that is para-
lyzed, especially my back had lost all its
natural strength.”

[Column 2]
	On the 5th of May that sister was
brought to the Manti Temple where she
was blessed and administered to and also
received her endowments, during which
time she was carried through the house in 
a chair. She was prayed for in the Tem-
ple for two weeks. As the young woman
saw no change in her condition until the
15th inst. some of her friends consulted a
doctor who saw her that day and promised
to come in two days and see what he could
do  But the Lord restored her, for the
next day on the 16th, she felt to get up,
and to her great surprise she could walk,
and walked that day to one of her friends,
a distance of four blocks at Ephraim City,
and the distance back making eight blocks.
though she could not walk one step the
day before. On the 20th of May she came
to the Temple again to show us all what
our Heavenly Father had done for her.
	Dear reader imagine, if you can, the sur-
prise and joy in our hearts to see Sister
Mary Ann, the helpless babe of two weeks
ago, walk in without assistance as though
nothing had been the matter. A feeling of
joy and gratitude to our merciful Father in
heaven swelled in our hearts and another
testimony was added to the many given
before, that God is not unmindful of His
children, that His priesthood is restored
again to the earth with all its powers and
privileges there unto belonging, for the 
benefit and blessing of the faithful.
			EMMA R. KELLER.
Manti, July 30, 1897

U. W. P. C.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the U.
W. P. C. was held Saturday evening, July
31, at the office of the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT. President Fox called the meeting to
order at 8 o’clock. After prayer by Mrs.
Lucy A. Clark the secretary called the
roll, members responding with sentiments
from various Utah poets. As there were
but few members present the evening’s
program was in order before business. The
chair appointed Dr. Curtis critic for the
evening.
	The subject for the evening was the
Utah Jubilee. The first paper was pre-
sented by Miss Annie Laura Hyde on “The
Pioneers;” this was followed by a paper
on “The Jubilee,” by Mrs. Ruth M. Fox.
This completed the program.
	Under the head of business a motion was
made and carried that the program be pre-
pared by the committee and read before the
club one month befere hand.
	In accordance with a letter to the club
from Mrs. Bradley, asking that the U. W.
P. C. appoint a special correspondent to
the Review, the secretary was appointed by
the club to fill that position. After bene-
diction by Mrs. P. C. Young the meeting
was adjourned for one month.
		ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec’y.


IN Chicago the Civil Service Commis-
sion on July 29, posted a list of 221 per-
sons eligible for ward and street inspectors,
as a result of the recent examination.
Commissioner Winston pointed out with
pride that the candidate who got the best
mark, and was almost perfect in her ex-
amination, was a woman. This was Mrs.
A. Emmogene Paul, who was for three
years sanitary inspector of the Civic Feder-
ation.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY AUGUST 15, 1897


THE JUBILEE NUMBER.

	OUR readers will notice that we have
made this number a sort of Jubilee paper,
and we think the articles by Miss Annie
Laura Hyde and by Mrs. Ruth M. Fox are
particularly appropriate and give many im-
portant facts relative to our people and to
Utah. The two poems we publish were
both written for the prize competition, and
we were very glad to be able to give them
to the public; the last issue of the Expo-
nent contained the very artistic poem “The
Lily and the Bee,” by Bishop O. F. Whit-
ney, which even the judges commended
when they made their decision as to the
prize poem.
	The poem on our first page entitled
"The Pioneer Journey,” is written from
the heart, the author has felt deeply all she
has expressed and more, and in fact all her
poems are heartfelt, and Sister Woodman-
see has written for many years on Mormon
subjects always, almost exclusively.
	The poem on the third page is by L. L.
Greene Richards, the first editor of this
paper, her writings too, are significantly
Mormon, and she is one of the most charm-
ing verse writers as well as letter writers
and story tellers for children that we have
among our people. Each of these two sis-
ters have told the story of the pioneers in
her own way, and given her own ideas of
the pioneers and their hardships and ulti-
mate success. And though nearly a hun-
dred poems were written for the semi-
centennial the half has not been told nor
can it ever be were a hundred more written.
	There is grand material for the future
historians and biographers of Utah in the
exodus from Nauvoo, the sojourn at Winter
Quarters, and the journey over the plains
with ox teams and other primitive con-
ditions the settling of a desert, the build-
ing of a city, and cities, and eventually of
a great state.
	The people who have written see things
from their point of view, and write accord-
ingly. In this fast age of the world no one
has time to spare to write an elaborate
epic poem. Every one who has ability in
this direction puts it to the best financial use
possible. The journals and magazines of
the day are mostly depended upon to tell
one of important events, and that brings a
thought that might be expressed without
giving offence perhaps; why the Semi-
Centennial was not written up and illustrat-
ed in some of the famous magazines of the
day in a way calculated to attract public


attention, and make it of some historic im-
portance as a matter of record in the coun-
try of which Utah is a part
	The newspapers in this state did full
justice to the Jubilee and the Commission
and to the living Pioneers themselves the
“whole six hundred,” and nine-five more
who came here in 1847—and the illustrious
dead. That is they kept up daily with the
occurrences as they were transpiring, but 
comparatively few people outside of Utah 
read these great dailies—but they do read
the North American Review, the Forum,
Review of Reviews and standard magazines.


A PLEASANT PARTY.

	ON Saturday afternoon July 3rd, 1897, a
party was given at the residence of Mrs. A.
E. Hyde in this city in honor of her mother
Mrs. Jane B. Taylor (wife of President
John Taylor deceased) who is a veteran in
the Church and also now far advanced in
years. Sister Taylor is a very interesting
and lovable woman in herself, she is also a
pioneer having come to the valley in 1847.
	The party was in every way a success,
about thirty of her dear friends were pre-
sent and a sumptuous repast prepared and
daintily served by her grand daughters was
one of the features of the occasion. There
were plenty of floral decorations to adorn
the feast which always adds both beauty 
and grace to a party.
	The general conversation was reminis- 
cent and later on in the evening an im- 
promptu meeting was made a very
pleasant way of giving expression to the
love and esteem in which they held the
honored sister.
	Such social parties give rare opportunities
for those who have been familiarly ac-
quainted in former times to mingle together
and recount their experiences and sympa-
thize with each other.
	Sister Taylor was a Scotch Ballantyne
and is doubtless proud of it, (in a way) and
was born on her father’s farm. Shieldfield,
Merton Parish near Kelsor and about forty
miles from Edinburgh, on the 11th of
April, 1813. The Ballantynes received the
Gospel in an early day and came to Nauvoo
where Sister Taylor was married to Apos-
tle John Taylor. She is still in possession
of remarkably good health and with all her
faculties unimpaired. We rejoice with her
“that her lines are cast in pleasant places.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE hope and expect the Kindergarten
work will assume large proportions this
year, it is growing in favor and the people
are being educated up to the idea that the
Kindergarten theory and practice as taught
lies at the very foundation of the training
of children for life work.
	THE bathing season seems to have been
liberally patronized during the hot weather
this summer and all the old favorite resorts,
Wasatch and Brighton particularly, with
Saltair and Garfield and the Lagoon.
There are so many cool resorts
and such picturesque scenery that one
need not go far to find a place to rest and
recuperate, if one has the time. Of course
during the Jubilee everybody came to the
city but began to scatter after, and even the
children need a breath of country air before
the vacation is over. Schools will soon


open now and with the record of last year
we may expect great improvement to be
made. 
	MISS LOUISE B. EMERY, of St. Paul, 
who came here very highly recommended 
in her line, Kitchen Kindergartening, has 
been giving lessons to children and teach-
ers in this city during the last four weeks. 
She has illustrated them and at times open-
ed her classes and lectures to visitors. Cer-
tainly this branch of Kindergarten work is 
one of the most helpful things to young
mothers, whose nerves and brain are over-
taxed with the endless questions and con-
stant restlessness of little ones. The ques-
tion so often asked  “What shall we do 
with our girls?” might well be applied to 
young mothers only  it should be put
“What shall we do for them? Every 
young mother in the land ought if possbile
to have the benefit of the Kindergarten. 
	THE annual meeting of the Cannon 
ward Relief Society was held on the 5th of
August in the Cannon schoolhouse, Mrs. 
Sarah J. Cannon presiding. Although 
there was a pouring rain accompanied by
thunder and lightning, yet the sisters of
the ward, (some of them coming long dis-
tances) turned out well. After the usual 
exercises of singing and prayer, minutes of 
the organization and of the previous meet-
ing  were read nnd approved, also the
Treasurer’s report for the year, all of which 
were accepted. Sisters Zina D. H. Young,
M. Isabella Horne, Bathsheba W. Smith, 
Emmeline B. Wells, Annie T. Hyde and 
Clara C. Cannon each made remarks in-
structing and interesting, also Sister Cannon
the president. Other sisters present who 
would have spoken had there been time
were Sisters Caroline D. Smoot, Catharine 
Lewis, Ruth Ensign and Zina H. Bull. 
After the meeting was dismissed, delicious
refreshments were served to all members 
and guests and social conversation enjoyed.


LETTER FROM MEXICO.

COLONIA, JUAREZ.
	ON the 22nd of June, it being the anni-
versary of the birthday of Bishop Hunter,
a reception was given by Brother Orson
Brown and his wife Mattie, in honor of
their mother, Sister Phoebe Fife, and the
rest of the aged sisters living in the place.
Among those present were Sister Mary
Eyring, President of the Relief Society of
Juarez Stake, and Sister Cynthia Stowell,
her counselor. The party convened at
one o'clock and spent the time until three
o'clock in pleasant chat on past reminis-
cences, then all retired to a large dining
room and partook of a sumptuous repast,
after which all returned to the pleasant
parlor where the organ sounded with
lively notes by Miss Jennie Galbraith.
	Meeting was called to order by President
Phoebe Fife. The old folks sang "O My
Father." Prayer was offered by Brother
Brown. Singing "We thank Thee O, God
for a prophet." A poem was then read by
Miss Jennie Galbraith which was written
for the occasion by Sister S. T. Brimhall,
which awakened in the minds of those
present many fond remembrances of the
past.
	The eldest lady in the house, Sister Peter-
son, then sang in her native tongue, Dan-
ish, her voice was sweet though trembling


with age. Sister Shonsou spoke of her ex-
perience and of the goodness of God. Sis-
ter Annie Bowman sang a hymn in Ger-
man. Sister Harriet Whipple, aged 73 sang
in English. 
	President Mary B. Eyring recited a 
poem in German and gave the translation 
in English. Sisters Stoell, Hawkins, 
Thompson, Holt and others spoke of their
experiences and their joy in the Latter-day
work. Sister Hawkins led in prayer, then 
all arose and administered to Sister Fife
who had long been afflicted with rheuma-
tism. Sister Susan Martineau spoke of her
experience and stated that she saw the 
burning of the Nauvoo Temple. 
	President Phoebe Fife told of many of
her experiences. She was baptized by 
W. R. Huntington and led out of the 
water by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and 
had often gone to the Relief Society meet-
ings in Nauvoo with her mother, and heard
the Prophet’s teachings to the sisters. Sis-
ter Fife is the president of our Relief Soci-
ety in Juarez and is greatly beloved by all 
the Saints here. Her counsels are full 
of wisdom, she is a friend to the poor and
those who are in need of encouragement.
She was a pioneer in Utah and she has 
been a pioneer in Mexico; her whole life
has been devoted to the interests of the 
work of God. She is cared for in her old 
age by her son Brother Brown, who spares
neither pains nor means to make her happy
and comfortable. 
	At the close of the meeting the old folks 
sang “The spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing.” Benediction was offered. 
						S. T. B.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PIONEERS OF UTAH.

READ BEFORE THE U. W. P. C JULY, 1897.
	IN giving even a short sketch of the
Pioneers of Utah it will be necessary to first
know what kind of people they were,
where they came from, what were their
characteristics, and the cause and motives
which led them to leave what was then
the frontiers of a great nation, the bounda-
ries of civilization to seek to find homes, peace
and prosperity in an alien country, barren,
forbidding in aspect, inhabited by some of
the lowest of the uncivilized tribes of
America; to be anxious and enthusiastic to
start upon their journey into a region they
knew not of, leaving their beautiful homes
and smiling farms behind them.
	The historian Bancroft says “There is
no parallel in the world’s history to this
emigration from Nauvoo. The exodus
from Egypt was from a heathen land, a
land of idolaters, to a fertile region designat-
ed by the Lord for his chooen people, the land
of Canaan. The pilgrim fathers in fleeing
to America came from a bigoted and des-
potic people, a people making few preten-
sions to civil and religious liberty. It was
from these same people who had fled from
the old world persecutions that they might
enjoy liberty of conscience in the wilds of
America, from their descendants and asso-
ciates that other of their descendants who
claimed the right to differ from them in
opinions and practice were now fleeing.
	Before this the Mormons had been driven
to the outskirts of civilization where they
had built themselves a city; this they
must now abandon and throw themselves
upon the mercy of savages.
	After the Latter-day Saints, or

[Column 2]
as they are nick-named, “Mormons” were
driven from Missouri they fled to Illinois
and built the beautiful city of Nauvoo, sur-
rounded by farms and smaller settlements.
But the persecutions from which they fled
in Missouri were heaped upon them here
and after having their two leading men killed
and others wounded by an infuriated mob,
while they were under the protection of the
Governor; their houses burned and fields
destroyed and every indignity heaped upon
them, they at length made an agreement
with the representatives of the people of
Illinois to leave the state in the spring.
The agreement was reached on the first
of October and during the intervening
months between October and March the
Saints were busy making arrangements for
their enforced departure. Their prophet
and partriarch were dead, but they were
directed by the council of the Twelve,
Brigham Young being president of that
council.
	To know what kind of people they were,
whether industrious or indolent, one need
but look at the country they have made,
our beautiful state of Utah.
	Everywhere in and around Nauvoo was
bustle and excitement to prepare for the
early spring exodus. The people en-
deavored to dispose of their property,
in some instances this was accomplished, in
others they were enabled to lease, but in
the majority of cases they had to abandon
their homes and farms which had cost them
so much toil and labor, and which they lov-
ed so well.
	As early as February 4th eighteen hun-
dred and forty-six, the first party, left the
city and encamped about nine miles west-
ward on the Sugar creek. They had been
ferried across the Mississippi until that
river was frozen over when they crossed
with their wagons, teams and effects upon
the ice. The night of the 5th of February
in the bitter cold, and in the tents which
had been hastily pitched, the snow being
swept away from below them, nine wives
became mothers. By the middle of Febru-
ary when Brigham Young joined them a
thousand souls with their wagons, teams
and effects had crossed to the Iowa shore.
Here a council was held, the company
somewhat organized and Brigham Young
and some of the leading men who accom-
panied him returned to Nauvoo, held ser-
vices in the almost completed Temple and
then again joined the company on the
Sugar creek, which on Sunday March 1,
the first day of spring, began their west-
ward march, traveling five miles that day
and encamping still on the Sugar creek.
	It was not customary for the Latter-day
Saints to travel on Sunday as they honored
the Sabbath day and tried to keep it holy,
but as Brigham Young had given his word
that they would leave the first day of the
spring, and as the camp was so close to
Nauvoo many of the people were going
back and forth which made their enemies
suspicuous of their sincerity, it was deemed
expedient to start on the Sabbath. William
Clayton was made clerk of the company,
and Willard Richards an easy and versatile
writer, historian. The company traveled
slowly over the undulating snow and
ice covered plains of Iowa, some-
times making but three to seven miles a
day, until on the 27th of March they
reached Shoal creek and were forced to en-
camp there for three weeks on account of
the spring freshets. There a more com-

[Column 3]
plete organization was effected, the com-
pany was divided into tens, fifties and hun-
dreds over each of which was placed a captain
and the whole was divided into two divi-
sions, Heber C. Kimball, president of one,
and Brigham Young of the other, the latter
being also director of all. Laws were
made then for the governing of the camp
laws that were very strict in regard to
morality, honesty and general good con-
duct.
	As they traveled along settlements were
made, and traveling stakes of Zion organ-
ized. In these settlements small houses of
logs, turf and mud were made, land was
fenced in and crops were sown for the bene-
fit of the people who might stay in the set-
tlements, and for the good of those who
followed after them. One settlement on
the Grand river one hundred and fifty-five
miles from Nauvoo was called Garden
Grove, and another twenty-seven miles be-
yond, Mount Pisgah.
	There were now about one thousand
wagons with their precious freight of hu-
man lives rolling over the plains. About
the middle of June they reached the Mis-
souri river, and by the generosity and
friendliness of the Omaha and Pottawat-
omie Indians were allowed to settle on
their lands.
	It was here that the call for the Mormon
Battalion reached them. The United
States was waging war against Mexico try-
ing to wrest from her, her provinces of
California and New Mexico; and to march
across the continent and assist them in this
was to be the mission of the Battalion. Th
people were filled with dismay. Five hun-
dred able-bodied men from their little com
pany out in the midst of the wilds of
America! What had their country done
for them? They had been driven from
their homes, persecuted, robbed and slain;
when they had applied for justice it had
been refused them; did they owe any alle-
giance to her? And yet they loved their
country, it was their country that was
calling; that country to which their pil-
grim ancestors had fled from the persecu-
tions of the old world, that land wherein they
yet hoped to build their city of Zion, their
Holy City. These contradicting emotions
passed through them. What was to be
done? The question was soon answered
for them. Their leaders decided that the
call should be answered, the men should be
furnished. Not enough able-bodied men
were on the banks of the Missouri to re-
spond to the call so Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards,
in the role of recruiting sergeants went
back to Mount Pisgah to enlist men there.
In three days the muster was complete, the
company organized and ready to march.
Instructions were given them, a flag
brought out and nailed to the top of a tree
mast, a farewell party given in Father
Taylor’s bowery, (father of President John
Taylor) and the Mormon Battalion bid
their families and friends a long, in some
cases an eternal farewell. A few women
accompanied their husbands and these with
the servants brought the number up to
five hundred and fifty-nine. Sending so
many of their able-bodied men off made it
impossible for the company to go any fur-
ther that year; even before the call of the
Battalion many women had been forced to
do work which should have been done by
men, and now they were too enfeebled to
undertake the long and hazardous journey,


[Column 1]
accordingly it was decided to go into winter
quarters. Many of the Saints had crossed
the river from Council Bluffs and accord-
ing to instructions they laid out a city
which they called Winter Quarters.
	This city was composed of seven hun-
dred houses, workshops, places of worship
etc,, with a population of four thousand
and divided into twenty-two wards, each
presided over by a bishop and his counsel-
lors. A High Council was also organized.
The city was what is now Florence, Neb.,
five miles from Omaha.
	It was in this city in crude houses of
logs, turf and other primitive materials that
the Saints passed the severe winter of 1846
and '47.
	While camped here it was found neces-
sary on account of trouble in the branch of
the Church in England, for Apostles John
Taylor, Orson Hyde and P. P. Pratt to go
to England to arrange the affairs.
	As spring approached it was deemed
advisable not to take the whole Church
along but for a small company to be select-
ed to push forward, pioneer the way, find
the place where they should build their
city and then the other companies should
follow in their wake. Accordingly one
hundred and forty-four men were selected,
one of whom became ill and could not go,
and a their earnest solicitations three wo-
men, Clara D. Young, wife of Brigham
Young, Harriet P. W. Young, wife of
Lorenzo Young and Ellen S. Kimball, wife
of Heber C. Kimball, and two children
accompanied the party.
	On April 5, 1847, Heber C. Kimball
with six wagons left Winter Quarters and
found a camp four miles west called Cut-
ler's camp, and this camp was the nucleus
of the Pioneer company. On the eighth
some of the leading men returned to meet
Parley P. Pratt and hear the report of his
mission, on the ninth another start was
made but the same men again returned to
meet John Taylor who had returned from
England bringing with him two thousand
dollars in gold subscribed by the British
Saints. Apostles Taylor, Pratt and Hyde
remained behind to organize new compan-
ies and the former soon left, reaching the
basin of the Great Salt Lake the latter part
of September and the beginning of October,
while Orson Hyde remained behind to or-
ganize companies, attend to the emigration
and edit the "Frontier Guardian," the
first newspaper published in Iowa. On
the 15th of April the Pioneer company
finally started with seventy-two wagons,
ninety-two horses, fifty-two mules, sixty-
six oxen, nineteen cows, seventeen dogs
and some chickens. They were instructed
to proceed two wagons abreast as much as
possible, and when liable to be attacked
more; the bugle would sound at five
o'clock for every one to arise, then they
had prayers, fed their teams, breakfasted
and were ready to start at seven o'clock.
At 8:30 p. m. everyone had prayers in
his own wagon and by 9 o'clock all
must be in bed Each company of ten
took their turn in riding in the van
of the train, and when they camped at
night a corral was formed by placing the
wagons in a circle, the fore wheel of each
vehicle being locked in a hind wheel of
the one ahead. One and sometimes two
openings were left in this corral and the
horses and cattle were usually driven into
the inclosure, especially when in a hostile
country. Over this small, mimic, sleep-
ing city the sentries mounted guard. On

[Column 2]
the Sabbath day there was no traveling,
divine services were held and the day was
kept holy. The people were encouraged
to be happy and cheerful and enjoy them-
selves, but excessive levity and loud
laughter was discountenanced.
	The company traveled up the barren
north side of the Platte making their own
road, fearing to travel on the south side
where the emigrants to Oregon and Cali-
fornia were traveling on account of the
depredations of their old enemies the Mis-
sourians. They frequently were com-
pelled to pay tributes of food and provisions
to the Indians, but were usually treated
well by them. In crossing rivers they
used a small leather boat called the Revenue
Cutter which they had brought with them
as a wagon bed from Winter Quarters.
At Loup Fork they ferried some of the
Oregon emigrants across and were given by
them flour and other provisions; these
emigrants were Missourians and it seemed
strange that they should thus help to feed
them when they were in the wilderness.
	They hunted and fished as they went
along, and thus added to their provender.
On May 21, a guide board was put up,
reading: "From Winter Quarters 409
miles; from the junction of the north and
south forks (of the Platte) 9 ¾ miles. Ac-
cording to Fremont this plaee is 132 miles
from Laramie." Various other such guide
boards were made, often a buffalo's skull
being used for that purpose, and these
skulls also served for post offices in which
were hidden letters for the companies
traveling in the rear. On June 1, they
were opposite Fort Laramie and five hun-
dred and forty-three miles from Winter
Quarters, half their journey completed in
seven weeks. There they were joined by
more of the Mississippi Saints and the in-
valid portion of the Mormon Battalion,
seventeen in all, and A. M Lyman was
sent back to Pueblo to take charge of the
Mississippi Saints. On the 4th of June
they left Laramie and met many emigrants
bound for Oregon, and in the region of the
Black Hills on the Platte, ferried them
across the river, as on account of high
water it was not fordab[-]e. Finding that
the smimming of the wagons injured
them they made a raft and ferried their
own wagons and loads as well as the emi-
grants across, charging the latter $1.50 for
a wagon and loads. The money and pro-
visions obtained at this time were equally
divided among the company, the ferrymen
receiving a little more for their work. As
this plan was considered a good one to
establish a ferry nine men were detailed to
man it, and hereby to be able to pioneer
the next company.
	The pioneers met several scouts and
mountaineers of whom they inquired about
the land ahead of them, but all reports
were very discouraging; the land was bar-
ren and no vegetation, little water, a great
salt sea and inhabited by some of the poor-
est and lowest of the savage tribes. They
were advised to go into the northern part
of the great basin valley to a place where
the hunters and trappers cached their furs
as it was the most fertile part, they called
it Cache valley, which name it still bears,
or into the southern part, but around the
great Salt Lake nothing would grow. Col.
Bridger offered one thousand dollars for
the first ear of corn ripened in the place
where the Saints settled. But still un-
daunted they pressed on turning their
faces into the heart of the Rocky Moun-

[Column 3]
tains, and away from the El Dorado of
California.
	On July 7, they reached Fort Bridger
but left it on the 9th and on the 12th of
the month President Young was taken ill
with mountain fever and was compelled to
fall to the rear and cease traveling for
awhile. On the 13th Orson Pratt with
forty-two men and the women and children
of the Crow family, pressed forward to try
and find the Denver trail and make a road
for those in the rear. They went down
Echo Cañon into East Cañon and thirteen
times crossed that rapid stream, often the
wheels of the wagons had to be double-
locked as they descended the steep and
rocky cañons; from East cañon up over
Big mountain, here Orson Pratt and John
Brown riding ahead of the company on
July 19, caught the first glimpse of the
Valley of the Great Salt Lake. Their
journey then led them over Little moun-
tain, and down Emigration cañon.
	On July 21, Erastus Snow joined the
van guard bringing a message from Presi-
dent Young who thought that on emerging
into the valley if they journeyed a little
northward they would find the best place.
On the same afternoon Erastus Snow and
Orson Pratt riding one horse rode into the
valley. On the afternoon of the 23rd
President Young saw the valley for the
first time, and a ter looking at it long and
steadfastly he said, "Enough, this is the
right place. Drive on."
	That night the President and the rear
guard camped at what is now Mountain
Dell, and on the afternoon of the following
day, the memorable 24th of July, the rear
guard drove into the valley to the place
which those in the van had selected, and
where they had sown their grain. And
their journey was over.
ANNIE LAURA HYDE.


182 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A HEART OF GOLD.

BY CLIO.
	IT was dinner time before the company
reached their destination, the banks of
the beautiful Silver Lake, set like a gem in
the tops of the verdure-clad, rock-ribbed
mountains The afternoon was occupied
in preparing for the celebration on the mor-
row. John Heplar worked with a will
gathering willows and boughs to help
make the three large boweries necessary for
the accommodation of the vast assembly;
also in bringing from the saw mill near by,
planks to form floors for the same. All
was at last prepared. The day god was
just sinking to rest in his couch of crimson
and amber when the shrill but sweet tones
of a bugle floated through the tremulous
air, followed by answering echoes as the
sound reverberated from crag to crag,
and peak to peak. It was a signal for the
people to gather around a small turf-clad
eminence, to listen to words of inspiration
by their leaders. It was a solemn and in-
spiring moment. In the dim twilight, sur-
rounded by the grandest and most beauti-
ful in nature, twenty-six hundred people
listened with devout looks and deepest
feeling, to the prayer offered by their be-
loved Brother Heber, as he plead for Zion
and dedicated the spot for the grand cele-
bration of religious liberty for her people.
And when later there stood before them
their prophet and leader, speaking boldly
for justice, thankfully for blessings received,


[Column 1]
prophetically of the great future, every
heart burned with gratitude and every lip
echoed and re-echoed a solemn amen to
his words of truth.
	A social dance was the program for the
evening. Hitherto John had been most
happy, for he had been very busy with lit-
tle time to brood over his troubles. Now
he felt like running away, wandering into
the surrounding solitude where he could be
alone with his thoughts. He had never
yet spoken to Grace, and what was a party
to him without her sweet companionship.
Not for worlds would he again experience
the misery of that last party. Then he re-
membered his experience on the banks
of the Jordan, and his feelings changed in
a moment from the deepest depression to
sweet anticipation. He quickly formulated
plans of procedure. He would remain and
take part in all exercises. He would treat
Grace in all respects as thougk nothing dis-
agreeable had transpired, with the excep-
tion that he would strictly suppress any-
thing of a lover-like nature. In accordance
with his resolutions he waited until Grace
had danced several times, then approached
her in the frankest and most natural man-
ner he could assume, (for it must be con-
fessed he found it necessary to assume in-
difference toward one whom he had come
to look upon almost as his exclusive
property,) and requested the pleasure of
a dance. To say that Grace was surprised
at this manɶuvre would but mildly express
her feelings. Yet that she was pleased
could be judged from the expression of her
face. Never before had John appeared to
as good advantage. Never had he assumed
in her presence so much of the outward
appearance of politeness. He had been
one of those who seem to pride themselves
on their bluntness, and uncouth behavior.
He had never been her ideal, far from it.
Yet in spite of his many faults, and to the
wonder of her friends and even herself, at
times, her heart had clung to him, hoping
against hope for his reformation. In spite
of her love, however, Miss Alison had a
large fund of common sense, and a still
larger reserve of religious sentiment. Per-
haps it was due to these that she could see
dimly through John Heplar’s rough exte-
rior to the genuine kernel within. How-
ever that might be, it was quite certain
that she would never throw herself away
upon a worthless character, if she knew of
his failings.
	The dance was quite uneventful, but
enjoyable. Grace was pleasant but not
talkative, and John was more than once at
his wits end to keep off an annoying and
awkward silence. He managed pretty
well, however, and later on, danced with
her again with a grain more satisfaction.
	Early next morning the camp was astir
with life and pleasurable anticipation.
The stars and stripes were run up on four
of the highest points in the vicinity, cannon
boomed, bands played, the people sang
praises and patriotic songs. There was
fervent prayer and heartfelt thanksgiving;
more singing; some speech making and
toasting; some military evolutions, the
whole finally culminating in a grand pic-
nic dinner. What a glorious time and
what a happy, grateful, patriotic people!
	The enjoyment was at its height; boat-
ing, strolling, singing and a dozen other
pastimes being in full blast, when atten-
tion was called to the approach of four
horsemen up the narrow, winding road

[Column 2]
leading from the city. Their weary,
travel-stained, but rather excited appear-
ance roused many conjectures as to who
they were, whence they came and what
might be their errand. The suspense was
not of long duration. Too soon was learn-
ed the startling intelligence that they were
well known and devoted brethren, who
had ridden hundreds of miles on horse-
back to bear tidings to their isolated peo-
ple in the fastnesses of the mountains.
And such tidings! The news flows from
lip to lip with great rapidity.—An army
is on its way to Utah to put down an in-
surrection among the Mormons! A host
of men en route over the prairies and
deserts to annihilate the handful of perse-
cuted saints who have taken refuge in the
tops of the mountains, a thousand miles
from civilization!
	There is no noise, no excitement; but
deep in every heart is a firm and settled
conviction of right and justice, and a firm
determination that this project must not be
allowed to culminate. The declaration of
their leader that the army shall not enter
the valley, finds an echo in every heart.
	The merriment goes on, though perhaps
it is rather more subdued. There are
speeches by prominent men, singing and
benediction, more dancing and a good
night’s rest preparatory to return on the
morrow.
	It is doubtful if the news of the advanc-
ing host affected any one more profoundly
than our friend John. He felt stunned.
The idea that after the robbings, murder-
ings, burnings and pillagings, and ravag-
ings which the people had undergone and
of which he had just been reading, of
the parent government which should have
been their protector, should without pre-
text, seek to annihilate their last remnants,
without cause or provocation, was more
than he could understand or bear patiently.
He felt as though he could fight the whole
army single handed, so great was his indig-
nation. So, when a few days later, a call
was made for volunteers to meet the enemy
on their way, he was among the first to
offer his services.
	“Why Brother John,” exclaimed his
Bishop, when young Heplar presented him-
self, “Is it possible you are willing to
fight the battles of a people whom you do
not like, and whom you have esteemed as
the wrong doers?”
	“Such is the case, Bishop Langly,” re-
plied John. “There are such things in
the world, you know, as a change of
mind.”
	“Good for you,” chimed in the Bishop’s
first counselor. “I always said that some
of our rough boys were jewels in disguise,
and held hearts of gold under their crusty
coats.”
	“Thank you, Brother Harper, I hope
you may prove a true prophet.”
	According to counsel, it became neces-
sary for our friend John to be re-baptized
before they set out on their perilous jour-
ney. It is not likely that he would have
thought of it, or done it if he had
thought, but inasmuch as many others
were to undergo the same ordinance, he
was on the whole, rather pleased than
otherwise.
	It is not necessary to go into the details
of the winter campaign in Echo Cañon; of
the hardships endured, and the lessons of
obedience and self-sacrifice learned by those
taking part. It is all a matter of history,

[Column 3]
and as such may be studied with profit by
those of a later day.
	The campaign came to an end as all
things do, and there arrived a day when
those brave men came marching home
again, crowned with the laurels of a blood-
less victory. It had been a time of trial to
the fiery spirit of our hero, and of other
impulsive individuals. But like ore from
the furnace he came forth purified, refined
and prepared for the summons which shortly
followed; that of a call to bear glad tidings
of great joy to a world which sat in dark-
ness.
	During the short period which passed be-
tween his return from military duty and his
departure for ecclesiastical labors, John
saw much of Grace Alison. There were
many balls and sociables in honor of those
returned and those about to depart; and
these naturally brought them together.
But he did not seek a renewal of old ties,
though there is small doubt but his advance
would have been received favorably by
that young lady in the face of what had
passed.
	He did not, however, yet feel sure of
himself, and while he had full faith in the
final accomplishment of his object, yet he
did not feel that he had a right to seek her
until he had fully proven himself worthy,
nor to bind her by a promise which she
might desire to break during his absence.
	A bitter struggle this resolve cost him;
but he came off victor, and bade good-bye
to her in common with his other lady
friends, without once having a word with
her in private.
	Poor Grace, lacking the upholding faith
of her lover, was in despair. Her love
during their estrangement, had grown
stronger and stronger as she saw signs of
the reformation she had so prayed for.
In his apparent coldness she imagined she
beheld a weakening of his love and of her
influence, and she sought in vain for the
clue. Not that she abated one whit in the
maidenly reserve in which she had clothed
herself, but in all legitimate channels had
sought to retain her hold upon the object
of her affections. The diminution of his
love seemed now so apparent that pride
came to her rescue, and she resolved to
take refuge in the same course. She had
many admirers and a little encouragement
to the most acceptable made him very de-
voted. But she was not happy and soon
gave him notice to leave. The only
crumb of comfort left was that John paid
no attention to any of the other girls, and
wrote only to his parents and one or two
male friends, always sending his love
equally to all his lady friends.
(Continued)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISS JESSIE LIVERMORE, of Chicago, is
a successful designer of art glass. In a
competition of seven of the leading artists 
of the country, she has secured the work of
designing the art window for the elegant
new residence being erected by Mr. and
Mrs. Gougar at La Fayette, Ind.
	THE Business Committee of the N. A.
W. S. A, at its meeting held last week at
Adams, Mass., transacted a good deal of
important business. It was decided that a
large National Suffrage Bazaar should be
held in the fall of 1898, to raise funds for
the work. The place was not definitely 
fixed, but will probably be New York
City.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall, Saturday, July 10th, 1897. Singing
“Now let us rejoice in the day of salva-
tion.” Prayer by Sister Whittaker. Sing-
ing “O Jesus the Giver.” President M.
I. Horne presided. She said she felt sorry
to see so few here this afternoon, and
thought the sisters could afford to come to-
gether every fourteen days to worship God,
without the Spirit of God we could do noth-
ing. Said we could stay at home and
delve into work until we would lose the
desire for spiritual food. Spoke of the
saying of the ancient apostles about the
last days; read from the book of Timothy
concerning these prophecies and felt that
this chapter applied to us at this time.
She felt sorry there were so many Sabbath
breakers as there were, and exhorted the
sisters to be united, humble and prayerful.
Said it was the Saints that had to open up
this wonderful Western land, and explained
how the Lord kept this barren land in this
condition until the time came for the
Saints to come here, and now how He had
blessed the land and caused plenty of water
to spring forth where once there was none,
felt we were greatly blessed. Urged the
sisters to cultivate the Spirit of the Lord.
The speaker felt it was a pleasure to serve
the Lord and do His will. Prayed the
Spirit of the Lord might be poured out
upon us this afternoon to bless us and
build us up.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson felt we should
not let the moments go to waste. It was a
privilege to have the opportunity of meet-
ing here. The speaker said we should
show by our presence here our appreciation
of our noble teacher, Sister Horne; spoke
on family prayer and the necessity of it.
Thought if we could keep ourselves right
our influence for good would be great;
knew there was much responsibility on the
mothers. Said to guard our actions and
our words and prayed the Spirit of the
Lord might burn within our hearts con-
tinually.
	Sister Smallie spoke of her appreciation
of the Gospel and of her visit to Rexburg,
and said they were all a good, clean people,
that she never heard a naughty word or
saw a bad action, there was not the pride
there that there is here. Spoke of the
United Order, and felt that the Spirit of
the Lord was more to be desired than any
thing else.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said she could
testify to the truthfulness of the remarks of
Sister Smallie, for she had known her
for many years and knew what she said
came from her heart. Said the blessings of
the Gospel were many, and felt to thank
her heavenly Father for prophets and the
many gifts that were in the Church. Said
these meetings were the happiest meetings
she attended and felt to bless Sister Smallie.
Asked God to bless us all.
	Sister Crow made a few remarks and
spoke of the things the Lord had blessed
her with, that she worked hard but felt to
put her trust in the Lord. Said she was
blessed with a family of good children;
prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister Alder bore testimony these meet-
ings were organized twenty-seven years
ago by President Young in this building. 
She was here at the time Sister Horne was
president and had seven counselors. Sis-

[Column 2]
ters Zina D. H. Young and Sarah M. Kim-
ball were the only surviving counselors.
Said the object of these meetings was to
instruct the Relief Society presidents and
those who felt like attending. It was here
that the precious jewels were dropped from
the lips of our cherished and dear sisters
who were so gifted and prepared to teach
us.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde spoke of meeting
one of the Christian Endeavor ladies, and
she asked them what their object was.
She told her their object was to do good
and relieve the poor. They then entered
into a conversation and she explained the
principles of the Gospel. The speaker felt
impressed to speak of the Sunday excur-
sions, and how greatly they were growing
in our midst.
	President Horne felt we had been blest
in coming together and said much had
been taught, also spoke of our recent
visitors, the Christian Endeavors. Made
some excellent closing remarks, and said
this meeting would be adjourned for four
weeks owing to the Jubilee. Singing,
Doxology. Benediction by Counselor E.
Webb.
			ZINA H. BULL, Sec’y.
	IT is stated that women control $130,-
000,000 of stock in the national banks in
this country, and 145,000,000 in the State
banks.
	THE Countess of Aberdeen, president of
the International Council of Women and of
the National Council of Canadian Women,
is now in England and is endeavoring to
organize a National Council of Women for
Great Britain and Ireland.


[Column 1]
		Midwifery Classes.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.
		
		RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE.
	
	WILL the Secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion
please send in their reports immediate-
ly to Margaret Y. Taylor, 33 South 1st
West St. Salt Lake City.

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP'S SCHOOL.
	The Winter session of Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp’s School in Obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October 11th,
1897, at her residence, 75 Center
street, with greatly improved facili-
ties for instruction in this important
study. For full particulars please
address
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, 
			75 Center Street,
			   Salt Lake City, Utah

[Column 2]
		Garfield Beach

	Time Card in Effect June 15th.

[table of train schedule]
[Column 1]
Leave
Salt Lake.
*7:45 a. m.
10:15 a. m.
2:15 p. m.
4:30 p. m.
7:00 p. m.
*Daily except Sundays.
[Column 2]
Arrive
Garfield.
*8:45 a. m.	10:55 a. m.
2:55 p. m.	5:10 p. m.
7:40 p. m.
[Column 3]
Leave
Garfield.
12:25 p. m.
*3:10 p. m.	5:10 p. m.	7:00 p. m.	7:40 p. m.
[Column 4]
Arrive
Salt Lake.
1:05 p. m.
*4:00 p. m.
5:45 p. m.
7:40 p. m.
9:40 p. m.
	Olsen's orchestra every afternoon and evening.
Boating, bathing and dancing. Fare 50c. Depot
corner First South and Fourth West. City ticket
office under Masonic hall, corner Second South and
West Temple streets.
				D. E. Burley, G. P. & T. A.

[image of Union Pacific logo shaped like a shield]
    Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
			DEPART.
“The Overland Limited’’ for Chicago,
  St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
  City. Denver and Park City........ 7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
   Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
   Denver ........................ ...6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all 
   above points than any other line.
			ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
  cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
  Denver and Park City......... 3:10 p.m.
‘‘The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
   Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
City and Denver.............. 3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
  Telephone No. 665.
  The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK.
		OLIVER W. MINK. 
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
		JOHN W. DOANE.
FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
						Receivers.
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
		H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

				R.K. THOMAS
		    Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
			     SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
				  Cash House.
				R.K.THOMAS

				CHOW CHOW.

	2 qts. small onions, 2 qt. cucumbers, 2
qts. cauliflower, 1 qt. green beans 8 qts.
green peppers. Soak in brine 24 hours,
then scald enough vinegar to cover, pour
over and let it stand 24 hours. For sauce
take 2 qts. vinegar, 12 tablespoonfuls of
mustard, 4 tablespoenfuls of curry powder,
4 of flour 2 oz. celery seed, 1 cup of sugar,
cook until clear then pour over the pickles.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 26.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1897.		NO 7.


CONTENTS:
	Jean Ingelow—Edith Lovsey. A Heart of
Gold—Clio. A Distinguished French Woman.
The Good Shepherd—Zion’s Convert. Queen
Victoria’s Girlhood E. S. W Ladies’ Sem-
Monthly Meeting—Zina H. Bull, Sec. In
Memoriam. Notes and News. Our Favorite
Recipes.
	EDITORIAL:—Municipal Affairs. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY:—Marmora—Clara Barton. Only—
Ruth M. Fox.


[Column 1]
MARMORA.

BY CLARA BARTON,
President of the Red Cross Society.

[Written in Constantinople, July 4, 1896, and dedi-
cated to W. W. Peet, Esq.]
It was twenty and a hundred years, O blue and
	rolling sea!
A thousand in the onward march of human
	liberty.
Since on its sunlit bosom, wind-tossed and sails
	unfurled,
Atlantic’s mighty billows bore a message to the
	world.
It thunders down its rocky coast, and stirs its
	frugal homes,
The Saxon hears it as he t[-]ils, the Indian as he
	roams;
The buffalo upon the plain, the panther in his
	lair,
And the eagle hails the kindred note, an
	screams it through the air.
Make way for liberty, it roared, here let the op-
	pressed go free;
Break loose the bands of tyrant hands; this land
	is not for thee!
The Old World in its crusted grasp grinds on
	the souls of men,
Here plant their feet in freedom’s soil, this land
	was made for them!
The mother slept in her island home, but the
	children heard the call,
And ere the western sun went down, had answer-
	ed one and all;
For Britain’s thirteen colonies had vanished in a 
	day,
And six and half a hundred men had signed their
	lives away.
And brows were dark and words were few, the
	steps were quick and strong,
And firm the lips as ever his who treasures up a
	wrong;
And stern the tones that offered up the prayer
	beside the bed,
And many a Molly Stark that night wept tears of
	silent dread.
The bugles call, and swords are out, and armies
	march abreas,
And tho Old World casts a wondering glance to
	the strange light in the west.
Lo, from the lurid ligh[-]ning’s play, free tossing
	in the wind,
Bursts forth the star-gemmed flag that wraps the
	hopes of all mankind!

[Column 2]
And weary eyes grew brighter then, and faint-
	ing hearts grew strong.
And hope was mingled in the cry, How long, O
	Lord, how long?
The seething m[-]llions turn and stir, and struggle
	toward the light;
The free flag streams, and morning gleams where
	erst was hopless night.
The grim Atlantic thunders still adown its rocky
	shores,
And sti[-]l the eagle screams his note, as aloft he
	sails and soars;
And hope is born, that even thou, in some far
	day to come,
O b[-]ue and rolling Marmora! shalt bear the
	message home.
				—The Woman’s Journal


[Column 1]
JEAN INGELOW.

“To poet’s eyes
All things, however mean or common, have
A hidden beauty and a radiance
Not seen by common mortals All God’s works
To him express some tender, loving thought
Which, in the hurry of this busy world,
We do not hear, or do not understand,
The quaint, sweet language that is all their own;
To take these beautiful and tender thoughts
And then translate them into single words
Made easy for his children’s stammering tongues;
This is the poet’s tas[-].”
	Jean Ingelow as a poet put into the
explicit words of mystic rhyme some of the
prettiest pictures of life,—put into the
mind’s mirror so vividly, that the interest-
ed reader forgets the words of the poem,
and sees the picture as if it was mounted
on canvas and encased in the frame before
him. “A mother showing a portrait of
her child,” is a poem matchless and unsur-
passed for illustrating to its readers the
great love of a mother for her child, and
her reflections of the hopes espoused by all
mothers for the heavenly gathering of
the departed. The last two lines of this
poem make a gem of themselves, that we
should all keep shining in our every day
thoughts, and use as a guide for our acts
and love for others:
		“Then thy heart must take forever
		Less than it [-]esto[-]s.”
	How beautiful this sentiment,—and how
much grander our world would be if we all
would “Take less than we bestow!”
Selfishness would then vanish as a mist be-
fore the bright sunshine.
	Jean Ingelow was born in Boston, Lin-
colnshire, in 1820. Her mother was of
Scotch descent, and her father was a well-
to-do banker of fine intellectual culture.
The poetess was exceedingly shy in her
younger days, and lived a quiet, unevent-
ful life until 1863, when the first publica-
tion of the poems secured her recognition
among the great poets and authors of the
day. She was charitable, and her “copy-
right dinners” three times each week to
twelve needy persons just dismissed from
hospitals, was one of her ways of showing
the charitable inclination of her character.

[Column 2]
	She exhibited many of the proofs of the
influence of her surroundings in her poems;
we can see in her poems the influence
the sea, the fine old churches and monas-
tic ruins had upon her. Jean Ingelow was
not spoiled by the fame her works brought
her; she once said “I do not care about
fame, or rather, scarcely believe in such a
thing, but it is a great pleasure, and a very
true one, to give pleasure to so many peo-
ple for the time being.”
	Her friends on this side of the Atlantic
endorsed her to Queen Victoria, and pro-
posed that she be appointed “poet Lau-
eate” of England, but she did not receive
the appointment, although she numbered
Queen Victoria among her personal friends.
	Jean Ingelow died in London July 19,
1897.
				EDITH LOVSEY.


[Column 1]
A HEART OF GOLD.

BY CLIO.
	FLATTERING reports came in of John’s
devotion to the cause, and his success at
winning converts, which was of course a
great comfort to all who knew of his pre-
vious career. And then came the news
that he had finished his labors and was on
the way home at the head of a large com-
pany of emigrants; but it was not known
just when they would reach the valley. A
small company of men with wagons and
provisions had been detailed to go out and
meet the weary travelers, and were already
on their way.
	The happiness of Grace at this news was
somewhat tempered with doubt as to how
her old lover would feel and act toward her.
She had sought bravely enough to carry
out her plans of independence. One after
another she had accepted the attentions of
numerous suitors, but the end had always
been the same. As soon as they showed
any disposition to become lovable, she had
turned against them in spite of herself.
And here she was, twenty-three years of
age and unmarried; with even her affections
unentangled, except with what she called
her “Memories of early girlhood.”
	She sat alone upon the porch step one
September evening enjoying the soft radi-
ance of the harvest moon, and her thoughts
strayed to the oft-present subject of John
Heplar and his return. She wondered how
he would look, how he would act, whether
he would remember their old friendship; or
if he would still be cold and indifferent, as
before he went away. To her credit be it
said, that all such thoughts were strictly
confidential. Outwardly there was no
danger, and no thought of giving an inch,
of betraying by word or sign her feelings,
unless he took the initiative.
	The click of the gate-latch recalled her
attention and she rose to her feet, for up
the long garden path came a strange figure,
and she was alone, She waited expectant-
ly, and her heart almost stood still as he
stood before her, silent, and as though ex-


[Column 1]
pecting her to recognize him. Her heart,
unruly member that it was, decided not to
stop, but gave a great lurch and thumped
lustily enough when a low, earnest, fami-
liar voice exclaimed:
	“Gracie.”—
	The old baby name, spoken in the same
old fashion. She would have known it
among ten thousand!
	“John—John Heplar—is it you? When
did you arrive?”
	“It is I Grace, and no mistake. I got
in about two hours ago. I left the com-
pany some miles back and came ahead
with one of our Elders who is sick. Are
you glad to see me, Grace?”
	She could not trust herself to speak, so
great was her surprise and emotion, but
she raised her eyes to his face, bright with
glistening tears, and held out both her
hands in a sudden impulsive manner. 
	He drew her toward him, looked into
her eyes, and, as if satisfied with what he
found there, folded her in his arms and
kissed her tenderly.
	“Gome into the arbor, dear, I want to
talk to you,” he whispered. And hand in
hand they walked into the old trysting
place, and sat down upon the old home-
made lounge, hallowed by many associa-
tions in the past.
	“Do you remember, Grace, our last
private conversation?”
	Did she! as if every word was not en-
graved on her heart. If he only knew
how many times she had rehearsed the
scene, and wondered if in her self-righteous-
ness she had not dealt harshly with her
wayward lover, he would not have asked
her the question. She did not speak her
thoughts but only said, “Yes, I remember
very well.”
	“And has the old love died out entirely,
Grace, for I believe you loved me in those
old days a little.” As she only hid her
face in her hands, he went on, the hungry
pleading of his long starved heart manifest-
ing itself in his voice.
	“Was I mistaken then, Grace, and am I
to be again driven forth, a prey to the de-
mon of unrequited love?”
	‘‘Oh no, no—dear John—I loved you
then—I love you now, dearer and dearer--
but I thought—”
	“Go on, you thought what—”
	“That you no longer loved me—you see
you were so cold and distant—I thought,
I thought I had offended you beyond resti-
tution.”
	“Grace, darling, that was the turning
point in my life. You did not know dear,
that the vision of this moment has been
my guiding star since that time.”
	“No, I did not know, or I would have
been spared many uneasy moments. But
how pray, did you under existing circum-
stances, dare to conjure up such a picture?”
	“The conjuring was none of mine. God
has been very good to us to preserve us
both for this happiness. Darling, it is His
work. Would you like to hear the story?”
	“Anything—anything, John, for you
are so good and I am so happy.” And
nestling contentedly in the strong arms of
her lover, Grace Alison listened in wonder
and gratitude to the tale of his sufferings
and trials, and their happy culmination.
	“Well you see, when I left you that day
I was the most miserable being on earth. I
could see plainly that one of two things
must happen; either I must lose you, or
bring my life in accordance with that which

[Column 2]
you firmly believed right. The first was
absolute misery; the last I could not do
without conviction. I did not know what
to do or where to go.”
	“Poor boy,” murmured Grace, compas-
sionately, and was rewarded by a kiss for
her sympathy.
	“I wandered about I don’t know where,
and was finally taken in tow by Brother
Harper, who lectured me soundly and gave
me some practical advise, which I resolved
to follow as soon as possible. After he left
me, I wandered on till I came to the river.
Here everything was still and quiet. I
sought out a secluded nook, and there I
tried to pray. Oh Grace I tremble now
when I think of that prayer, it was so bold,
so presumptuous, anything but what a
prayer should be. But I did not tremble
then; I was desperate. I had tried to pray
before, and had received no visible answer.
I was determined to have one now if such a
thing could be. I expect I should have
repeated my experiment had not a couple
of cows routed me, making me think I had
been discovered. I lay down on the bank,
and finally fell asleep. Then it was that
my prayer was so mercifully answered. I
found myself in a bare and dreary plain
which appeared smooth enough in general,
but which as I plodded along, multiplied
obstacles of every name and nature. There
were sticks and stones, briers and thorns,
fallen logs, narrow, deep ravines with mud-
dy water running in them. Sometimes
there was rain and snow, lightning and
thunder. There were multitudes of peo-
ple of all sorts and conditions; some plod-
ding on my way; some going backward,
some to the right or left. Yet in my par-
ticular path I was alone.
	I think I should have given up many
times and turned back, had it not been that
far ahead I could see what looked like
green fields and gardens, which I felt
would be far preferable to the surrounding
desert.
	Well I plodded along and finally reached
the entrance to a green and pleasant valley,
bounded on both sides by green and wooded
hills and extending for a great distance.
At this place I found waiting to accompany
me—whom do you think?
	“I haven’t the remotest idea,” said Grace
feeling a warm glow over her whole body,
belying her tongue.
	“Who indeed but my own dear Grace,
with extended hands and a smile of wel-
come for the wanderer. Grace I have
reached the end of that weary road; I have
entered the beautiful valley. I have found
you waiting with your welcome of love.
The rest of the journey we will take to-
gether. Hand in hand we traversed this
valley together, turning aside now and
then to gather a beautiful flower or ex-
amine some object of interest. We passed
villages and towns and mingled with many
people, and at last found our forward view
obstructed by the sight of a beautiful white
city in the distance. We traveled the in-
tervening distance and in due time entered
the city together. That was the end of my
dream, the interpretation was made known
to me, and that dear, is what has helped
me to overcome some of my evil propensi-
ties, and bring me to my present happiness.
Can you not see the Divine hand in all
this dearest?”
	“I can indeed, dear John; how thankful
we ought to be, and how true, that we may
indeed reach the beautiful goal shown in

[Column 3]
your vision. My own prayers have been
answered too, in that your “heart of gold”
which I always knew you possessed, has
been made patent to the world. I wonder
if such happiness will last.”
	“We shall be as happy as we deserve,
without doubt, and I hope we shall de-
serve a great deal. Let us go now and see
what our mamma’s and papa’s have to say
to this arrangement. We must not forget
them in our new-found happiness.”
	“I should say not; for who among all
our little world will so rejoice at our good
fortune as those who have toiled for us so
long and borne with our frailties so patient-
ly.”
	Evidently they found no opposition in
these directions, for a few months later
there was the happiest kind of a wedding,
to which all the town were bidden. There
was no finery and but little ceremony.
Such Babylonish things had not yet fol-
lowed the exiles to their retreat; but there
was warm hospitality and fraternal feeling,
and plenty of good things to eat. The en-
tertainment wound up with a grand ball in
the evening in which young and old trip-
ped “the light fantastic toe,” until mid-
night, when all decorously sought their
own homes.
	Dear reader, all this transpired more than
thirty-seven years ago. The happy sim-
plicity of those days has given place to a
more stately and ceremonious mode of life,
since “civilization” has found us out.
Many, many dear friends who figured in
those scenes have migrated to the Silent
Land. Many, many new friends have
joined us from their bright former home,
that they too might enjoy the same privi-
leges as we enjoy. Thousands have gath-
ered from every land to help swell our
numbers, and the little handful of refugees
has grown into a mighty host. It is well.
It is as we knew it would be, and as we
know it will continue to be, only in a great-
er degree.
	Time has sown many silver threads
among the brown and golden locks of our
hero and heroine. Children came to their
little home, grew up and began life for
themselves. Grandchildren have followed
in their wake, and if their good luck con-
tinues, great-grandchildren will also “rise
up and call them blessed.” They have
known many joys, but they have not es-
caped all sorrows. Yet true to God, each
other and their convictions of truth, they
are well on their way toward the Beautiful
City, and hope to enter it, hand in hand.
Their love has never waxed cold, and as
for Grace, each passing year has strength-
ened her faith in her husband’s “Heart of
Gold.”
THE END.


WOMANS EXPONENT


ON July 24, Miss Frances E. Willard
went by invitation to what was formerly a
part of the township of Dublin, N. H., to
visit the old home of her grandfather, Rev.
Elijah Willard, of Harvard, Mass., fifth
descendant from Henry, son of Major
Simon Willard, one of the founders of Con-
cord. The old home and church are prac-
tically intact. Miss Willard and Miss Gor-
don participated in the Christian Endeavor
praise meeting in the historic old church,
and placed water lilies (the emblem of the
World’s Woman’s Christian Temperance
Union) on the grave of Rev. Elijah Willard,
who died at the ripe age of eighty-eight,
after serving as pastor for forty years.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ONLY.
ONLY a little baby, 
Nestled on mother’s breast,
Clasping her fingers tightly,
Closing eyes so lightly.
Love’s light burning brightly,
While all is peace and rest
On y a impled darling;
But oh, the pleasure it brings;
Dancing, skipping and singing,
Merry laughter ri ging, 
Plu p ar s upward flinging, 
As in her lap it springs.
Only a lovely maiden,
Or perchance a treasured boy,
Snares for feet unh eding,
List’ning not to pleading,
Downward path is leading,
Away from truth and joy. 
Only a wayward daughter,
Or mayhap an erring son;
The lg t of evil nipping,
Youthful feet are tripping,
By the wayside slipping, 
Alas for evil done
Only one more life wasted,
Steeped in folly and crime; 
To greater depths descending,
Sin aud mis’ry blending,
Regret never ending,
Throughout all future time.
Only a sad-eyed mother,
G ieving till day of her death;
Her heart often sighing,
To God ever crying, 

To save her child trying,
E’en to her last breath.
Only a gray-haired father,
Bowed down with a weight of woe;
The bright word made so dreary,
By one be loved dearly,
Who should have known c’early,
Love and honor to show.
Only a piece of marble
Marking the spot where they lay;
Two lives broken hearted,
Earth’s ha piness thwarted
From recreant one parted,
Perhaps forever and aye.
RUTH M FOX.


[Column 1]
A DISTINGUISHED FRENCH WO-
MAN.

MRS. CLEOPHAS is a native of France,
the daughter of Michel Halbout, an em-
inent sculptor, and her mother came from a
family of Belgium nobility, her name con-
sequently was Eugenie Halbout de Horn.
The family de Horn is one of the oldest and
most renowned in the history of Belgium
and travelers passing through Brussels
never fail to notice the statue of Count de
Horn, which occupies a place in the Hotel
de Ville. She is a lineal descendant of this
brave soldier, noted for his valor, who died
for his country, and inherits much of the
bravery, generosity and patriotism of him
whom she strongly resembles.
Having been taken quite young into the
family of her grandparents de Horn, and
associating with those of mature age, she
showed a seriousness beyond the usual de-
velopment of the youthful mind. 
When only five years of age her father
died, leaving her a fortune in her own
right, whereupon her godfather, the Count
de Miunerkerke Brebisson looked after her

[Column 2]
interests until the time of his death in 1865,
at which time the Count de Meunerkerke,
the minister well known during the reign
of Napoleon III., who was a friend of the
family, was legally made her guardian.
At this time her grandmother, a noble
woman, and herself a woman of great abil-
ity, seeing in the child a great love for
study, placed her in the institute of Mrs.
Blondeau, one of the best colleges in Paris,
where she remained until 17 years of age,
when she passed her examination brilliant-
ly before a commission of academy inspect- 
ors, etc., and received her diploma. She
evinced remarkable proficiency in writing
special Latin exercises, and wrote in her
mother tongue an account of the assassina-
tion of Thomas A. Becket, Archbishop of
Canterbury. The essay was read in the
Sorbonne of Paris by Mr. du Cellier, the
rector at that time, and she was saluted
with enthusiasm and retired with much
honor.
When the war of 1870 broke out, when
everyone in France, women and men,
young and old entered upon the field of
action, Mlle. Halbout de Horn, imbued
with the spirit of the hour and the welfare
of her people at heart, immediately entered
upon the arduous undertaking of providing
food and clothing for the destitute. Under
her personal direction a bureau of benevo-
lence was opened in the Fourteenth arron-
dissement in Paris, and under her personal
supervision women were employed making
clothes for the poor. Assiduously and
systematically this work was carried on
with a most remarkable zeal. Never hesi-
tating, undauntedly she worked, devoting
all her energies to the work that had so
thoroughly enlisted her interest. Hers was
a strong purpose to benefit her fellow
creatures; the result was 2,000 families
were clothed and cared for, and today the
representatives of those families love and 
bless her name. The spirit of benevolence
manifested at this time is deserving of
special commendation when we consider
that at the moment when charity was
needed a fearful war was raging, the dark
and appalling clouds of war hung over her
head and o’ershadowed the prosperity of
her country; it was ’mid the strife of battle,
with bombs falling around her house that
this brave girl gladdened the hearts of
many and faithfully performed her duty.
An instance of her admirable courage
and bravery of a true patriot is shown a t
the time of the civil war which broke out
afterward. When nearly every one went
to the suburbs, this noble girl remained in
her own home with her family, surrounded
by bloodthirsty fiends, who knew no law
and recognized no government. Amid the
fearful carnage Mlle. Halbout de Horn was
held a prisoner by the anarchists, threaten-
ed every hour during six weeks of captivity
with untold horrors and many times threat-
ened to be shot. When questioned as to
her reason for staying when all others had
fled, her reply was: “I did not want the
anarchists to invade my home.”
After the war ended and the regular
government was again established, her
name was proposed for the decoration of
the Legion of Honor. This great honor
she refused to accept, giving as her reason
that she had only done her duty as a true
patriot. Her name was then written in the
Golden Book of the Women of France, in
remembrance of that terrible year, and to
her heart of hearts that reward is sufficient.

[Column 3]
In 1873, at the age of 20 years, she mar-
ried a wealthy importer and during the fol-
lowing 12 years, in company with her hus-
band, visited England, Germany, Spain,
Italy, Switzerland and other countries, be-
coming familiar with all the places visited.
In 1885 her husband was taken very ill
and for two years lingered, suffering intense
agony with that dread disease, a cancer.
His faithful wife assumed the entire care of
the one she loved and while he lived minis-
tered with the devotion of an angel to the
wants of one who was destined never to re-
cover. But death itself must have lost its
terrors when a tender, loving wife was
there to smooth the way as the tired spirit
winged its way heavenward. In March
1887, her husband died, leaving her entirely
alone in the world, as all her relatives had
passed away. The death of her husband
came to her as an overwhelming blow. In
France the women are not protected as
they are in America, therefore when she
had buried her husband new troubles con-
fronted her. When she went to the ceme-
tery to bury her beloved one she was a rich
woman; upon her return to her home she was
poor, for the officers waited to place their seal
upon her possessions, and during the next
six years she was involved in a lawsuit,
meanwhile being obliged to earn her own
livelihood, and compelled to take up the
burden of life. In April 1888 she came to
America, highly recommended by the
French and Belgium consuls as a lady of
remarkable accomplishments, both as a
writer and conversationalist. It was then
that her education proved to be of great
assistance. Her linguistic ability procured
for her an appointment as professor of the
French language in the well known school
of languages, Fisher, in Philadelphia, Penn.;
in Gerard College and also the New Cen-
tury Guild, a college for working women.
At the same time the government of France
took advantage of her departure for this
country to charge her with a mission in the
interest of the Red Cross Society, of which
she was an active member, and when she
came wearing the badge of the Red Cross,
the emblem before which all nations bow,
every door was open for her and a royal
welcome waited her. Visiting the arsenal
in Philadelphia, she was most graciously
received by the directors and accompanied
by the consul of France she inspected the
tent hospital system, in view of recom-
mending the same to the government of
France. She also held correspondence
with the war department at Washington,
D. C., relative to that subject. Her mis-
sion fulfilled she took her chair in the col-
leges named. Her success in all her un-
dertakings was assured from the start. A
beautiful, cultivated woman, noted for her
social, intellectual and benevolent qualities,
she soon became very prominent, and be-
loved by all who knew her.
(Continued.)


NANTUCKET’S historic windmill has be-
come the property of the Nantucket His-
torical Association, which will preserve the
ancient landmark.
	“PRENTIS HALL” is the name given to
the new building at Forest Park, Chautau-
qua Assembly, presented to the women of
Kansas by the citizens of Ottawa. The
building was named in honor of Mrs.
Noble L. Prentis. of Kansas City, Mo.,
formerly of Kansas.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	- 	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1897


[Column 1]
MUNICIPAL AFFAIRS.

	THE talk of the town, here, there and
everywhere at the present time, is the
coming city election and the reforms that
ought to be inaugurated in the way of
economical expenditure, as well as in
enforcing the laws prohibiting evil prac
tices. There are laws and ordinances
enough on the statute books of the city to
meet every phase of wrong-doing if the
men in official positions (to which they
have been elected by a majority vote of the
people) had the courage to see the laws en-
forced in the interest of justice, regardless
of anything but the welfare of the people of
the city. But there is a lack of moral
energy somewhere in the body politic of
the city officials evidently, because there
are flagrant offences against good order and
sobriety, and these serious matters are pass-
ed over and no one seems to know why the
parties go unpunished, and pursue the
same or similiar evil practices. And so
crime and vice multiplies and the people
submit for the time being because forsooth
they see no redress that seems available.
And yet the avenues for economic adminis-
tration, of local civil government are all
open, and there seems no good reason for
neglect of duty on the part of those in
power.
	The people have become weary with the
lack of discipline, and surely after the ef-
forts now being made the people will put
a non partisan ticket in the field that
can be supported by a large majority, among
whom there should be the new voters (the
women) who almost without exception are
anxious for a decided reform in the manage-
ment of city affairs; they are not willing
that saloons should be open on Sunday,
not even the back doors, nor that liquor
should be sold to boys under age on any
day in the week, or cigarettes either. The
habit is terrible, and yet these very things
are done, and the offenders go unpunished.
	So long as good, honorable, upright
men and women absent themselves from
the primary and excuse themselves on the
plea of lack of time or because so many bad
men go and “pack” the primary, just so
long these evils will exist; but if on the
other hand good, honest men and women
go to the primaries and stand for the rights
of the citizens to good government there
might soon be a radical change, and that
change should be made at this coming elec-
tion in November.
	The good women of this city should

[Column 2]
come out in full force and see to it that
every man or woman who is nominated for
any office within the gift of the people of
the city should have a clean record. Stand
firm and maintain the honor and best inter-
ests of the people, for justice and equality
as well as economy in all departments.
	These matters are being taken in hand
in many of the large cities, and even where
women have not the privilege of the ballot
they are doing good work in these direc-
tions. How much more the women of
Salt Lake City can do with the ballot in
their hands is easy to perceive. And there
is no question about its being high time to
do it. There should be no wavering, no
hesitating---dare to do your plain duty con-
scientiously and let the watch-word be
reform, remember always “eternal vigilance
is the price of liberty.” Do not allow un-
principled men to get your votes, and rob
you and your children of their homes and
inheritances by increased taxation and by
their sophistry and cunning lead you to
believe, it is all in the interest of progress.
Prosperity and progress comes more surely
when the larger number of people own
their homes. It was the policy of the
pioneers who settled these vales, and in
this city, as well as in smaller cities, towns
and villages, but of late years many have
drifted away from this practice, and the
people are less independent because of mak-
ing other investments and involving the
home. Agriculture and gardening are not
very remunerative just at present perhaps
but if the majority of the people are going
into mining and similar pursuits, they
must be supplied with grain and other pro-
visions and those who till the land will not
be at their mercy, but will be the ones who
will fix the value of breadstuffs and the
like. From all appearances now the pro-
phecies of Brigham Young, Heber C. Kim-
ball and others are likely very soon to be
literally fulfilled. Therefore be advised in
time and don’t give away your inheritance
(or your birthright) for a mess of pottage.
The Lord is watching over His people and
those who listen to counsel and keep the
commandments given to them in this day
and age as well as in the former days, will
be able to stand when “all that can be
shaken will be shaken,” as the Scripture
says.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MANY of the Relief Society Conferences
are being held about this time, and are
being attended by sisters from the city by
invitation of their officers. We have been
expecting reports of these Conferences for
publication or for the records, but so far
there have been very few minutes sent in.
It is impossible to keep posted in regard to
these Conferences unless the Secretaries
send the minutes to headquarters. Some
changes have been made in officers and
new branches organized, which should be
reported.
	WE wish to call the attention of the sis-
ters and our good friends to the Woman’s
Store on First South St., just a little west
of Main St. in the Nauvoo building.
Ladies will find there almost everything
needful in the way of dress and articles for
use. Mrs. Maria Francis and her daughter
Mrs. Kelly are very desirous of pleasing
the public in the way of dry goods and
potions, and are well posted in the details


of business and know how to buy as well as
to sell. They are polite, courteous and
kindly and make it a pleasure to attend to
customers. They make a speciality of
dressmaking and millinery in connection
with the store. Mrs Francis was in busi-
ness many years in London before coming
to Utah. Ladies remember this is a co-
operative woman’s enterprise, and examine
the articles here before buyiug anywhere
else. Your patronage is earnestly solicited.
	MISS JESSIE ACKERMAN, a world-re-
nowned celebrity, is now on a visit to Salt
Lake City, and has delighted her audiences
by her eloquence, earnestness and enthusi-
asm in reform movements, principally tem-
perance. Miss Ackerman has an excellent
voice for large buildings, and in the Taber-
nacle in this city she had to make no extra
exertion whatever in order to be heard
distinctly. She is a great traveler, having
been twice around the world, and in many
lands, China, India, Japan, Africa, Iceland
and most of the European countries. She
has climbed to the summit of the Alps and
other notable heights, and has also donned 
a divers suit and been to the depths of the
sea. Spiritually as well as temporally Miss
Ackerman has been climbing into heights
and also diving into depths, not to fish for
pearls however, but for human souls. In
visiting our sanctum with Mrs. E. E.
Shepard (a teacher of this city) she found
the Primary Association officers meeting in
session and being invited spoke a few
words of encouragement to them, saying
that the work for the children appealed
very strongly to her heart. Miss Acker-
man has been instrumental in aiding the
W. C. T. U. in many, very many countries,
and we sincerely wish her God speed in her
noble work of love and reform, undertaken
for the betterment of the home and the up-
lifting of the human family.


THE GOOD SHEPHERD.

	DO we not read in Holy Writ that He
who scattered Israel would gather them as
a shepherd does his flock? And again we
read in Ecclesiastes 3rd chapter: it reads
thus: "There is a time and a season for
every purpose under the sun. A time to be
born and a time to die. A time to plant
and a time to pluck up that which is plant-
ed. A time to cast away stones and a
time to gather stones. A time to embrace
and a time to refrain from embracing," etc.
	Did not the angel Moroni tell the Pro-
phet Joseph upon showing him the gold
plates in the hill Cumorah, "It is not time
to take them out yet for four years; but
come here and meet me once a year until it
is time to take them." That Joseph did,
so we read in his history. Does not this
agree with Ecclesiastes, the preacher, the
son of King David of Jerusalem, who said
there is a time for every purpose under the
heavens?
	Accordingly there must be a time to
gather Israel. Now I would ask has that
time arrived? I did not think so fifty-five
years ago, when told that a Mormon preach-
er had come to Ithaca to preach the new
doctrine; would I go and hear him tell us
of a prophet and a new bible lately dis-
covered?
	Oh no, why should I since the Savior
was our teacher, and the New Testament
was our guide? I was satisfied, believing
as I did the Episcopal church to be nearer


the Apostolic church than any other, is not
this sufficient? Prophets are no longer
needed since the Savior came, and He is
our teacher. Is not our Bible sufficient for
our salvation?
	I had no curiosity on the subject, but my
friend Mrs. Monroe, was so highly interest-
ed in the preacher she insisted on my
going to hear him, saying, “You know
the Bible tells us that ‘He who judges a
matter without hearing it is a fool.’ ”
“Yes of course it is so. I will go and
hear him myself, but do not expect to see
as he does.” I went and found the preach-
er, Elder James Blakesley, preached Bible
doctrine to the very letter. I could see no
fault, and on going several times concluded
that every one who believed the Bible
would accept the Gospel exactly as Jesus
taught it, to be prepared for the Millenium.
	Did He not say “In vain ye cry unto
me: Lord, Lord, and do not the things
which I say." He also said "My sheep
know my voice and a stranger will they
not follow.” Now what does St. John tell
us about this good Shepherd?
	Please read the 1st chapter, 9th verse, it
reads: "He was the true light, lighting
every one that cometh into the world. The
world was made by Him, and the world
knew Him not. He came to His own and
His own received him not. But as many
as received Him, to them gave He power to
become the sons of God, even to them who
believed on His name.”
	13th verse: “He was not born of blood
nor of the will of the flesh nor the will of
man, but of God. And the Lord was
made flesh and dwelt among us, and we be-
held the glory of the only begotten of the
Father, full of grace and truth.”
	Now please tell me why did the Deity
come down and dwell in the flesh among
hnmanity? Was it not to organize His
Kingdom on the earth, and to teach the
human family how to gain the victory over
this fallen nature of ours? He grew up
from infancy to manhood and had a taste of
very bitter things that flesh is heir to; did
He not? Showing us at the same time the
higher law, which is “Peace on earth, and
good will to all mankind." Nor did He
value His own life nor the lives of those
who were sent to help Him accomplish this
great work. Every one of His apostles
were slain excepting John the revelator, be-
cause he met with that change which is
equivalent with death. They had no fear
of death, for Jesus came to bring to pass
the resurrection of the dead.
	This life is short, but it will prepare all
who are faithful in keeping the laws of
God for a life which has no end. How
important then that we give strict heed to
the laws given by the Savior of mankind,
the Shepherd of our souls, who never for-
gets any only those who forget Him, or
choose some other rule of action. For to
all He gives their agency, besides giving
them every faculty of mind and body they
possess. Yet when they serve Him it
must be in spirit and in truth to be accepta-
ble to Him.
ZION'S CONVERT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
QUEEN VICTORIA'S GIRLHOOD.

	It is seldom the privilege of a biographer
 to have so interesting and so good a subject
as her R. H. Queen Victoria. By the way,
it seems odd to speak of the queen as a sub-

[Column 2]
ject, At the time of her birth it was well
known that she was a royal little personage,
being a direct descendant of Alfred the
Great, renowned by thirty-five generations,
and thirty-seventh from the first to be de-
clared and acknowledged King of all Eng-
land. Though being of such noble birth
there were also others, and it was by no
means certain that she would occupy the
throne. But it does appear, though she
herself did not declare it as one other did,
that she was a child of destiny. The nu-
merous escapes when her life was in jeopar-
dy, the gradual and silent slipping away of
those between her and the throne, her long
and glorious reign all would faypr this
theory. She is a grand-daughter of George
III., King of England at the time of the
American Revolution. Her father, who
was Edward Duke of Kent, was the fourth
son of the king, and only differed from his
family in being better than the others.
	He married a German princess, Victoria
of Leiningen. She was a widow and the
mother of two children. The Duke, who
was very philanthropic and noble in dis-
position, and on that account most
popular with his countrymen though only
a younger son, was also poor. His allow-
ance was miserably small compared with his
expenditures, and these were not made in
fashionable excesses. Upon his marriage
in 1818 he went to live in Germany with
his bride. The mother of Victoria was a
woman of superior wisdom, with much
common sense and determination. And
one knows not how much of the happiness
of this world today depends upon the wis-
dom, strength of character and goodness of
that one little woman as manifested in the
training of her daughter.
	Shortly before the birth of Victoria the
Duke and Duchess of Kent removed to
England, with a feeling of commendable
patriotism, that their child might be born
on English soil, or as her mother expressed
it ‘‘that she might be born and bred a
Briton."  And a bonny, winsome child it
was that came to bless their home. She
came on May 24, 1819, at Kensington
Palace, and was known to all England as
“the little Mayflower.’’ Her father named
her Alexandrina Victoria after the Czar of
Russia and her own beloved mother. She,
however, after arriving at woman’s estate,
though still young, perhaps vaguely realiz-
ed something of what her mother had done
for her. However, that may be, when she
came to affix her signature the first time as
monarch of the kingdom she determined
that no name should precede or supercede
that of her beloved mother and signed sim-
ply “Victoria.’’ She was but a few
months old when her father, who had un-
wisely remained out in the grounds until
he became damp and cold, upon coming in
could not restrain his impatience to see his
darling child but went straight to her nurs-
ery before putting on dry shoes. The re-
sult was a chill, pneumonia and death. It
is reputed that on one occasion when he
put his child in his attendants arms he said,
“ Take care of her, for she will be queen of
England.’’ That must surely have been
what in women would be called intuition.
	The widowed mother now had naught to
live for but her child. She was not greatly
beloved by her husband’s relatives, most
probably because she was not understood.
But a more devoted mother could not be.
She and her child were seldom parted even
for a short time. The little princess al-

[Column 3]
ways had her little bed beside her mamma,
at meals her little table was also beside her
mamma, and there she ate her bread and
milk and fruit. Her health was tenderly
cared for. As a very young child she was
not robust, but health and strength were
fostered by the discipline and daily regime
of her young life. As soon as she was old
enough she had her daily course of lessons,
followed by riding walking, and simple
recreations. Her half sister, Princess
Fedora, was her companion. She was
very fond of her little garden under the
palace windows, and has often been observ-
ed amusing herself there as other children
do, sometimes sprinkling her flowers and
herself simultaneously.
	Her education was conducted under the
watchful and faithful supervision of her
mother, the Baroness Lehzen and Bishop of
______. being her instructors. She be-
came very much attached to the baroness
and made her one of her chief court ladies.
It is said that lack of wealth in the family
was not an unmixed evil. The duchess
was obliged to practice economy. Think
of a duchess being obliged to be economical!
And it most likely laid the foundation for
the thrift and economy which have charac-
terized the reign of Victoria, and heightened
the power and influence of the action.
	Her life as a child moved with the regu-
larity and precision of clock work, and
orderly and regular habits have been ad-
hered to through her life. She studied
modern languages but did not like Latin.
However, it was part of a discipline. She
excelled in music, drawing and painting.
It is said she might have made a name for
herself if life had not been filled by the
duties of a queen. Her voice was clear and
musical, and to this day strangers note her
clear enunciation in speaking and her fine
tones. The education of the princess was
conducted in. such a way that she did not
know until she was twelve or fourteen
years of age, (biographers differ as to the
time) how near to the succession she was.
It was then her governess, Baroness Leh-
zen, thinking it time for her to know, set
before her a genealogical tree to draw out.
	Presently she said, “I can not see who
is to come after Uncle William unless it is
myself.’’ “So it is Madame,” replied the
governess. Then the princess uttered her
thoughts aloud: “Now many a child
would boast, not knowing the difficulty.
There is much splendor, but there is more
responsibility.” After this she put her
little hand into the hand of her teacher and
said, “I will be good. I will be good.”
	It seems to me her future life was fore-
shadowed by that circumstance. Her life
was as simple and quiet as any little country
maiden in many ways, but there was al-
ways the feeling with her trainers that they
were forming the character of a queen.
She saw but little of court life, and during
the time of her uncle, George IV., it was
well she did not. When William III. as
cended the throne, he was bluff and hearty,
for he had been the sailor prince. His
manners were far from ideally royal. One
has a right to expect fair manners and
noble graces and virtues from royalty; but 
such persons are often disappointing.
King William having no heirs and realizing
that Victoria was next in succession, rudely
remarked in the presence of the Duchess of
Kent and before a host of people, that he
hoped he would live to see the princess at-
tain her majority. He wanted no queen


[Column 1]
regent. The duchess turned quite pale at
the affront, but wisely spoke no words and
immediately withdrew from the royal com-
pany. As for the princess her eyes im-
mediately filled with tears at the humilia-
ation of her mother.
	When twelve years of age Victoria at-
tended her first drawing room and as heir
presumptive stood on the left of Queen
Adelaide. She was much admired for her
innocence and the dewy freshness of her
beauty, besides always having fine and en-
gaging manners. On the 24th of May,
1837 the princess attained her majority. It
was a day of great rejoicings. She was
awakened by a serenade, the words of the
song being composed for her. There were
feasts, illuminations and all kinds of holi-
day doings. The king, whose wish was
gratified in seeing her thus come of age,
gave a grand ball, “at which the princess
for the first time took precedence of her
mother” She is said to have blushed
sligh[-]ly at this change of conditions. The
king himself was too ill to attend and the
princess occupied the central chair of state
but the king sent his niece a present of a
piano worth a thousand dollars.
	During the evening she danced with the
Austrian Prince Esterhazy. He is known
to history chiefly for his attire. Grace
Greenwood says “he looked as if he had
been snowed on with pearls and rained on
with diamonds.’’ He really sparkled with
jewels from head to foot, they were even on
the heels of his boots. “It was said that
whenever he wore this splendid costume he
lost numerous gems without either know-
ing or caring.” Of course many congratu-
latory addresses were presented to this
Royal Princess who was now so near the
throne.
	On the morning of June 20th at 10
o’clock, less than a month after his niece
attained her majority, King William died.
As this result was expected a carriage had
been kept in waiting and immediately the
Archbishop of Canterbury of the Lord
Chamberlain drove to Kensington
Palace. Arriving about 4 o’clock they
found some difficulty in gaining admission,
and more in getting audience of H. R. H.
They desired an attendant to say they wish-
ed to see the H. R. H. on business of im-
portance. After some delay the messenger
returned to say the princess was in such a
sweet sleep she could not venture to dis-
turb her. They replied, “We are come on
business of state to the Queen and know
her sleep must give way to that."
	“It did; and to prove that she did not
keep them waiting in a few moments she
came into the room in a loose white night-
gown and shawl her night-cap thrown off
and her hair falling upon her shoulders,
and her feet in slippers, tears in her eyes,
but perfectly collected and dignified.” The
queen's first words, turning to the Primate,
were “I beg your Grace to pray for me,"
which he did. The next thing was to
write to the widowed queen, Adelaide a
sweet letter, in reply to a request that she
might stay at Windsor until after the funer-
al. It was addressed to “Her Majesty,
the Queen." Some one remarked that it
should be addressed to the Queen Dowager.
“I am aware of that.” was the reply, “but
will not be the first to remind her of her
altered position."
	At eleven o'clock of the same day she
entered upon her duties as queen, attend-
ing her first meeting of the Privy Council.

[Column 2]
The first impression she created was very
favorable, the most adverse, if there were
such could not help being struck by her
calm demeanor, and the quiet dignity,
mingled with girlish sweetness and
modesty.
	“The Duke of Wellington told the Clerk
of the Council, that if she had been his own
daughter he could not have desired to see
her perform her part better.’’ And this
was surely great praise from the Iron Duke,
	After the formal proceedings of taking
the oath etc., the Privy Council was sworn;
and she is said to have blushed to the tem-
ples when her elderly uncles knelt to do
her homage. The girlish feeling of family
respect was at that moment uppermost. An
hour after the Privy Council, came that of
the Cabinet Ministers. And the newly
fledged young queen presided over this also
with much ease and dignity, as though she
had always been accustomed to it. Shortly
after her accession the queen went through
the ronnd of balls, receptions, drawing-
rooms, concerts etc., in honor of the event.
“At Her Majesty’s first soiree there were
ten thousand gentlemen present. The
crush was so great that orders and decora-
tions were torn off and diamond buckles
lost from shoes.” Victoria had been queen
a year and a week, and a day when her
coronation took place.
	She ascended the throne at eighteen, was
crowned at nineteen and happily married at
twenty. If that is’nt fine enough for any
fairy story what could be?
	The coronation ceremonies were conduct-
ed with all the pomp and magnificence
that the occasion required, though the
young queen had shown her wisdom and
thrift by omitting certain portions of what
had been heretofore the ceremonial. She
showed her patriotism too, by having her
coronation robes made entirely in her
native land. The Honiton lace alone gave
work to many poor people in a time of
scarcity too. Is it any wonder she has
been beloved by her people from the first
day of her reign? It is said to be a very
imposing spectacle and one truly regal as
this young queen in her virgin freshness
and modesty marched to Westminister
abbey for the coronation. Her coach of
glass and gilding and her eight stately
white horses wiih their fine trappings, and the
noble escort of all grades of nobility formed
a great pageant. And the enthusiastic and
admiring multitude with their cheers, huz-
zas and waving of handkerchiefs, must have
been reassuring to the youthful sovereign.
The climax of spectacular grandeur was
reached when at the services the crown was
placed on the queen's head, and simultan-
eously the peers and peeresses crowned
themselves with their coronets. Some of
the ladies of nobility had remained in West-
minister abbey in their gala attire six or
seven hours or more. It must have taken
several sorts of emotions to sustain them
that long.
E. S. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
Saturday, Aug 7, 1897, President M. I.
Horne presiding Singing “For the
strength of the hills we bless Thee.”
Prayer by Sister Maria W. Wilcox. Sing-
ing “’Mid scenes of confusion.” Minutes

[Column 2]
of previous meeting were read and accepted.
	President Horne said we had just had a
very busy time of it with the Jubilee.
Spoke of the seducing sptrits that were
abroad trying to darken the minds of the
people. This was one of the signs of the
times, quoted sayings of the Savior, and
spoke against Sabbath breaking. Said we
should teach our children self-denial and
curtail them in so much indulgence, see
that they were not out late at night. Ex-
horted the sisters to store their minds with
knowledge out of good books and urged
the mothers to set a good example for their
children. Said the more we sought after
the Spirit of God we should be blessed.
	Sister Cobb felt the sisters who met here
Saturday after Saturday were the salt of
the earth, also those who were trying to
keep the commandments of God. Felt
they were the sisters who were humble and
prayerful and those who had suffered.
Felt to testify that those whom the Lord
loves He chasteneth, and that some day we
would know the whys and wherefores. Said
her work lay with the children and that she
had been blessed in it. 
	Sister M. O. Brown hoped we might so
live that the destroying angel might pass
us by.
	Sister Armeda Snow Young was thank-
ful that she had the light of the Gospel.
She heard Sister Eliza R. Snow say once in
a meeting that her constant prayer was
that she might never apostatize. Prayed God
might bless our aged counselor and teacher
President Horne, that she might live many
years yet.
	Sister Rawlings said she was seventy-
three years old and could see to thread a
needle without glasses, felt she had much
to be grateful for. Bore her testimony.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony. Sister Mary Ann Hardy said
we must ever be on the watch and be
prayerful She felt she had much to be
thankful for and bore her testimony.
	Singing “Praise to the man.” A Sis-
ter in the congregation felt it a great privil-
ege to come to these meetings, she came a
long way to get here but was blessed in
coming. She felt thankful the Lord had
opened her way to come to Zion.
	Sister Butterworth felt the adversary was
abroad trying to lead the young away. 
Said she was the mother of eighteen child-
ren, but the Lord had seen fit to take four-
teen of them, felt to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in it.
	Sister Mary Silver felt thankful she had a 
standing in the Church and hoped she
might remain faithful. 
	Sister Wright felt it a duty as well as a
privilege to speak of the goodness of God to
her. She felt we had much to be thankful
for, and spoke of fasting and prayer, felt
sorry to see so few here, she had come
eighteen miles to be here today.
	Sister Nunn testified how she had been
healed by faith. Sister Cooper told how
her prayers had been answered in regard to
her son who had been weak in the faith,
but now had lately been baptized along
with his family, and said she felt like re-
lating this for the encouragement of others.
	President Horne made closing remarks,
spoke encouragingly to the mothers in re-
gard to their children. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks. Singing “This God is the 
God we adore.” Benediction by Counselor
E. Webb.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec’y.


MINUTES of the Ladies Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall, August 20, 1897, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Singing “Redeemer of
Israel.” Prayer by Sister Wright. Sing-
ing “O ye mountains high.” Minutes of
previous meeting read and accepted.
	President Horne said another two weeks
had rolled around, and we were permitted
to come together again. A sister had said
she thought when she, Sister Horne, passed
away these meetings would end, but there
were others who felt the importance of these
meetings, and felt the importance of these
meetings, and felt her usefulness was not
lived out yet. These meetings were a
great blessing and she hoped we would all
feel the necessity of attending. Spoke of
the great plan the Prophet Joseph Smith
had formed in turning west, and Brigham
Young had carried out, and we were now
enjoying their labors. Spoke of the thou-
sands who had been gathered out and the
indifference of the people now. Gave the
parable of the sower, and would like to live
to see Zion purified. Made many instructive
remarks.
	Sister Davis knew the Gospel was
true; needed a blessing and thought she
would receive one today.
	Sister Phelps knew the words of the
prophet had been fulfilled, we had many
years of experience and we ought to be
better people. Spoke of the indifference of
the rising generation, our lack of faith in
healing, and hoped the Lord would help all
those who made the effort to do right.
	Sister Maria B. Barnes had been forty-
two years in the Church, her faith had
been strengthened by the healing of her
daughter; had been prayed for in the
House of God and been restored, wanted to
do what was right and bore a strong testi-
mony.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said the greater 
efforts and sacrifices we made, the greater
our blessings would be. Felt it was our duty 
to speak of the goodness of God, quoted from
the Book of Mormon and said the sisters
needed to be missionaries as much as the
brethren, and they had a work to perform
in Zion. She was trying to redeem her
kindred dead, and felt blessed in having 
the testimonies of the sisters. 
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson had looked
forward to this meeting, as she had been
absent from the last. She had been in the
Church forty-three years and felt she had so
much to be thankful for; felt to acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in all things,
and knew that those who had attended
these meetings had grown in grace. She
felt the good spirit that was here. Let us
uphold Sister Zina and Sister Horne in
our prayers. Spoke in regard to mothers
having a watchful care over their children
and praying for the boys that were on mis-
sions.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and said she had many things to
be thankful for. Another sister in the
congregation felt she would be condemned
if she did not express her thankfulness  to
her Heavenly Father for His goodness.
She knew the Lord blessed the sisters in
these meetings.
	Sister Frink thought we lost our inter-
est when we stayed from our meetings; ex-
pressed her gratitude to God in leading her
through the struggle of life, and the bless-
ings of the Gospel.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and gave her expression of

[Column 2]
thankfulness. Sister J. T. Carrington spoke
on the Patriarchal order of marriage and
the benefit of these meetings; bore her testi-
mony. Another sister spoke of the good-
ness of God to her and prayed for Aunt
Zina and Sister Horne.
	Sister Horne closed by saying she was
edified with the testimonies of the sisters.
Singing “Lord dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing.” Benediction, by Sister Clara C. Can-
non.
					M. Y. TAYLOR.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM

ELIZABETH ISOLA MORRILL.
	With loving remembrance we record the de-
mise of Sister Elizabeth Isola Morrill, who de-
parted this life July 29, 1897. She was born in
Iron Co., Utah. Sep. 30 1864. She was the
daughter of Edward Homer and Sarah Stoker
Davis. The 28th of January, 1887 she was mar’
ried to Homer Morrill of Junction, Piute Co-,
Utah. Four small children are left to learn
through the keenest sorrow the loss of a mothers
unselfish love. A husband is bereft of a faithful
companion for whom he will ever mourn. A
fond mother, brother and sifter deeply grieve the
loss of a daughter and sister. Sister Morrill was
an active member in the Relief Society, acting at
one time as secretary also as teacher. She was
president of the Primary for a number of years
until the cares of a family and poor health forced
her to resign her public duties. She was never
so happy as when laboring in the cause of right.
Her life was a worthy example for all.
	Farwell dear sister, we do not mourn thee,
	As one dead, but gone before
	From thy labor and thy suffering,
	With thy kindred evermore.
		HELEN MORRILL, Ass’t. Sec’y.
SISTER ELIZA G LYONS.
	Sister Eliza G. Lyon whose death occured on
the 30th of June, 1897, was the daughter of Geo.
and Elizabeth H. Goddard She was born in Leices-
ter, England, October 20, 1841. At the age of
ten she left England with her parents October 11,
1851, and arrived in St. Louis by way of New 
Orleans and Mississippi River, Jan. 1. 1852. They
started for Salt Lake City June 9, and arrived at
the latter place September 15, 1852.
	She was always an obedient daughter, kind and
generous sister, and fulfilled well her part as a
wife and mother. Her usefulness extended be-
yond the home. In September 1889 she became
treasurer of the 12th Ward Relief Society, at the
same time acting as visiting teacher, which posi-
tion she held up to the time of her death. With
kindness and patience she fulfilled these duties
and will ever be held in kind and affectionate re-
membrance by those with whom she was asso-
ciated.
	In the death of Sister Lyon the Society loses a
most faithful officer and member, and her sudden
departure is a great grief to all her relatives and
associates. She leaves a husband and nine chi[-]d-
ren to mourn her loss. She rests from her labors
and her works will follow her
		JULIA A. DRUCE, Pres’t
		ANNIE KINGSBURY Sec’y.
SKETCH AND RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	To the memory of Sister Elizabeth R. Bromley
who died at her residence in American Fork,
July 9, 1897. Elizabeth Roylance Bromley was
born Aug. 26, 1842 in Iowa and came to Utah
with her parents in 1850, and settled in Spring-
ville where she was married to Brother Wm.
M. Bromley November 16, 1859. She was the
mother of ten ch[-]ldren, six of whom survive her,
three sons and three daughters. She removed to
American Fork in 1883 and became a fai[-]hful
member of the Relief Society.
	On May 17, 1887 she was chosen second
counselor to the president, Sister Mary S. Hindley
and c[-]ntinued in the same position after Sister E.
D. Clarke was appointed president, a position
which she filled with credit to herself and satis-
faction to the Society; and though not a fluent
speaker she was willing at all times to fulfill the
duties required of her in administering to the
poor and needy and performing any labor that
was required of her.
	She was a kind, thoughtful mother, sacrificing
her own comfort for the benefit of her family.
She was also un[-]versally respected and esteemed

[Column 2]
as a neighbor and friend. Her greatest wish
during her sickness was that she could have gone
[-]o the Temple of the Lord and continued the
labor of love which she had commenced; but the
great Father willed it otherwise, and the work of
redeeming the dead is left to the children who re-
main behind her. She had accepted the law of
celestial marriage and her reward will be among
those who have lived the law of sacrifice. She
was faithful to the end and as such will have a
crown of immortality and eternal life in the man-
sions of the blest. Therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That we as a Relief Society have
lost in Sister Bromley an ever willing worker and
wise counselor, that we esteem her memory and
deplore her loss, and we pray our Heavenly
Father to bless and comfort her family in their
great bereavement and
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be placed
upon our records, a copy be sent to the family
and one to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publica-
tion.
		ELLEN D. CLARKE
		JEMIMA DURRANT,
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
						Committee,
ANN SOUTHWELL S. CLARK.
	IN memory of Sister Ann Southwell S. Clark
who died at the residence of her son, Lorenzo S.
Clark, June 8, 1897, aged 81 years, 8 months and
20 days. She was the daughter of Charles and
Sarah Southwell and was born in Cambridge,
England, Sep 18, 1815, married William Seymore
and had one son, Charles W. Seymore now re-
siding in Summit Co. She was baptized and
confirmed April 1850, by Brothers T. W. Johnson
and Goates, and was married to Benj. T. Clark
May, 1850. She came over the sea in the ship
Golconda, crossed the plains in Cyrus H.
Wheelock’s company and arrived in Sugar House
ward October 6, 1853. She passed through
many trials and privations incident to the early
days in these valleys, and was industrious and an
expert embroiderer, by which means she helped
to gain a livelihood for her family. She with
her husband accepted all the principles made
known to the Saints for their advancement and
exaltation in our Father’s kingdom.  When the
Relief Society was first organized in this ward
she was appointed a teacher and she took great
pleasure in performing this duty, which she ddi
fuithfully till July 1888, when she went to reside
with her daughter Mrs. Ellen Siddoway at Rock-
port.
	Funeral services were held at the ward meet-
ing house. Brothers James Johnston, George W.
Larkins, Joseph E. Taylor, Bishop A. Driggs
and Mrs. Sarah B. Gibson spoke of our departed
sister and their remarks were comforting and
consoling.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has called
from our midst our loved and respected sister,
Ann S. Clark, be it
	RESOLVED, That we the members of the Re-
lief Society of Sugar House ward extend our
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family and
friends. We feel she died as she has lived a
faithful Latter-day Saint, and that our loss is her
gain. 
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family, that they be record-
ed upon the Society record and a copy be sent to
the WOMAM’S EXPONENT for publication.
		SARAH B. GIBSON,
		BETSY BOLLWINKEL,
		ESTHER S. HARDY,
					Committee.
SISTER LYDIA MCKNIGHT
	Lydia McKnight was born Oct. 8, 1826 at Nor-
wich, England. She was baptized as a member
of the Church by Claudius V. Spencer in 1855,
emigrated to Zion in 1862.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	RESOLUTIONS of Respect adopted by the Re-
lief Society of Minersville Aug. 11, 1897.
	WHEREAS, on the 7th day of August, 1897, it
pleased an alwise Creator to remove from our
midst by death one of our beloved sisters.
	WHEREAS, she has always taken an active part
in the Relief Society since its first organization.
She was elected president of the Relief Society
Jan. 30, 1871, which office she held for five
years. She has held the office of counselor for
several years, as long as her health would per-
mit. She has filled the office of teacher in the
Relief Society and Sabbath School also presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A., which office she filled


with faithfu'ness and integrity, showing by her
example and precept that she was willing to do
her duty. She was always held in the highest
esteem by all those who knew her, every ready
and willing to help those that were in need.
Therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That the Society, also the commun-
ity have sustained a severe 1 ss in the demise of
one so good and usef l. Therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathies to the bereaved husband and relatives.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon the records of the Relief Society, al-
so one sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publi-
cation and one presented to her husband.
 
   Written by theMinersville Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake will convene 
in the Assembly Hall on Saturday, Sep.
18, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m.
		     M. ISABELLA HORNE, Pres.

[Column 2]
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts

Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, October
ll, 1897. Reduction in tuition to ladies
from any branch of the Relief Society.
For further information address Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts, 437 East Second So.
Tel. 236 - rings; short-long-short.

		Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City. 

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP'S SCHOOL,
	The Winter session of DR. ELLIS
R. SHIPP’S School in Obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October llth,
1897, at her residence, 75 Center
street, with greatly improved facili-
ties for instruction in this important
study. For full particulars please
address		ELLIS R. SHIPP.
	
		    R.K. THOMAS
	Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
		SALT LAKE CITY. 
		The Leading Retail
			Cash House. 
R.K. THOMAS

[Column 3]
		LAST EXCURSION NORTH.

		    Saturday, September 18th.
Via Oregon Short line, at the following
low rates.
     To				Rate.	Limit.
Brigham.............$2 25 		15 days
Collinston......................  3 00		15 days
Meudon.........................  3 25			15 days
L[-]gan..........................  3 50			15 days
Smithfield......................  3 75		15 days
Richmond......................  4 00		15 days
Franklin.........................  4 25		15 days
Preston..........................  4 50			15 days
Oxford..........................  4 25			15 days
McCammon..................  5 75			15 days
Bancroft........................  7 25			30 days
Soda Springs.................  8 05			30 days
Montpelier....................   9 60		30 days
Pocatello.......................  7 00			15 days
Blackfoot......................  8 20			30 days
Idaho Falls....................  9 50			30 days
Market Lake................. 10 35		30 days
Duboi[-]....................... 12 05			30 days
Red Rock..................... 15 40			30 days
Spencer (Beaver canyon). 12 90		30 days
Dillon........................... 16 70			30 days
American Falls.............. 8 00			30 days 
Minidoka....................... 9 00			30 days
Shoshone....................... 10 00		30 days
Bellevue........................ 12 75		30 days
Hailey............................ 13 00		30 days
Moun ainhome.............. 14 50		30 days
Nampa........................... 18 25		30 days
Boise Ci y...................... 19 00		30 days
Caldwell........................ 18 50 		30 days
Ontario.......................... 20 00		30 days
Payette........................... 20 25		30 days
Weiser............................ 21 00		30 days
Huntington.................... 22 50		30 days
Baker City, O................ 25 20		30 days
Spokane, Wash............. 36 50		30 days
Portland, Or.................. 36 60		30 days
Pendleton, Or............... 30 25			30 days
	Proportionately low ra'e[-] from points
north and south of Salt Lake. Call at
Oregon Short Line ticket office for par- 
ticulars.

[image of shield shaped Union Pacific logo with The People's Favorite. 
UNION PACIFIC 
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD'S PICTORIAL LINE
Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
   lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
	DEPART.
“The Overland Limited’’ for Chicaga,
  St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
  City, Denver and Park City..........    7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
  Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
  Denver....................................          6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
  above points than any other line.
				ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,’’ from Chi-
  cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
  Denver ahd Park City ....................    3:10 p.m.
"The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
  Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
  City and Denver.......................           3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFF1CE, 201 MAIN ST.
   Telephone No. 665.
   The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair Cars.
			S. H. H. CLARK,
			OLIVER W. MINK,
			E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
			JOHN W. DOANE,
			FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
						    Receivers.
		   E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
		   E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
			H. M. CLAY, General Agent.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS MARY ALLEN THOMPSON is chair-
man of the Press Committee for the wo-
man’s department of the Tennessee Cen-
tennial Exposition at Nashville.
	MISS GRACE E. DODGE of New York,
the founder of working girls’ clubs, is
spending the summer at Bar Harbor. Miss
Dodge is very busy with plans for educa-
tional work.
	FRANCES E. WILLARD writes of Mrs.
Livermore’s autobiography: “It may be
said without exaggeratiou that no woman
in America has lived a more symmetrical or
a more helpful life than Mrs. Mary A.
Livermore.”
	MRS. ELIZA ARCHARD CONNER is a
member of the editorial staff of the
American Press Association. It is said that
her paragraphs about women find a place
in eight thousand papers.
	MRS. ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS
WARD is at her moorland cottage, East
Gloucester, Mass., in better health than
last year, when she was forced to rest from 
her work upon “A Single Life,” which is
called, so far, her masterpiece. She is now
writing another book.
	MADAME SARAH GRAND has published
no book of importance since “The Heav-
enly Twins.” She has spent her time in
work upon a new novel which will be her
most important literary undertaking. Her
new novel traces the development of a wo-
man of genius from her girlhood to her
marriage. It is described as a most subtle
and extraordinary study of a woman’s
psychological evolution.
	MISS ABBIE A. BRADLEY of Hingham,
Mass., has presented $20,000 to the presi-
dent and fellows of Harvard College, in
memory of her father, the late William L.
Bradley, who was much interested in trees
and tree planting. The income of this fund
is to be expended by the directors of the
Arnold Arboretum in scientific investiga-
tion at that institution for increasing the
knowledge of trees.
	THE American College for Girls in Con-
stantinople is likely to accomplish work of
great significance. The college has pupils
from Asia Minor, Greece Macedonia, Bul-
garia, Roumania and Russia. The hos-


tility of the Sultan has of late caused the
withdrawal of the Turkish students, who,
though few in numbers, were counted
among, the brightest girls in attendance,
and the troublous times at Constantinople
have thinned out the girls from a distance,
especially the Bulgarians.		Ex.


TOMATO SOUP.
	1 qt. canned tomatoes put through a
sieve, boil, add salt and pepper. Boil 1 qt.
of milk, add 1 tablespoonful of butter,
thicken with 1 tablespoonful of flour wet
with cold milk. When ready to serve put
one even teaspoonful of soda into the
tomatoes, pour into the milk, and serve at
once.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 26.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEP. 15, & OCT. 1, 1897.		No 8-9.


CONTENTS:
	Hawaii—M. A. J. Lambert. U. W. P. C.—
Orielle Curtis, Sec. Banquet to Josephine West.
The Women of America—Emily Ray. R. S. Re-
ports. Ladies’ Semi Monthly Meeting—Zina H.
Bull, Sec. San Francisco Letter—Ida M. Sarll.
Sacramento Letter—Fanny H. Thackham. A
Distinguished French Woman. In Memoriam.
Woman’s Exhibit at Tennessee Centennial.
Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL:—Responsibility of Women Voters.
Forty Years President.
	POETRY:—Utah Pioneers—Orielle Curtis. The
Query—H. W. Naisbitt.


[Column 1]
UTAH PIONEERS.

IN MEMORY OF THE JUBILEE.
				I
WITH what shall we garland the victor’s head,
When he comes with the spoils of war?
With poppies aflame and with jonquils red,
And cypress that waves o’er the buried dead,
Weave a wreath for the conqueror.
But twine for our heroes, who bravely trod
The deserts for freedom and truth and God,
Our Jasons who captured toil’s golden fleece—
For these—the white-hearted lilies of peace.
				  II.
Green girdled by orchards and corn-wreathed 
	farms,
How their “City of Beauty” smiled!
They whispered farewell to home’s sheltering
	arms;
To welcome gaunt hardship, and dread alarms
From the Indian, fierce and wild —
For glory, men dare the red battle plain;
The miner for gold rends the mountains in twain;
Adventure’s sharp prows cleave the cold, North-
	ern seas;—
But Duty’s white hand waved summons to thee.
				III
In freedom’s strong might, they followed on still
Where pavilions of sunset glowed: 
Faith marked the road over prairie and hill;
Hope waved her wand, and each tear-drop of ill
A rain-bow of promise bestowed.
The “Father of Waters” rolled darkling by,
And turbid Missouri made angry reply;—
But clear came the Voice: “Fear not the deep 
	sea,
For passing through rivers, Lo, I am with thee.”
				IV
Through arid plains tracking their devious way,
Over alkaline regions drear,
The antelope sprang over the dewy spray, 
The lean prairie-wolf snarled o’er his prey, 
Wild buffalo herded near;—
But fearlessly forward the pilgrims stept;—
The golden-eyed stars the night-watches kept,
And light-mantled morning’s celestial ray
The reveille sounded at dawning of day.
				V
They passed through the valley of Baca, and
	hewed
In its depths a life giving well;
Then sang Zion’s songs in wild solitude,
Where Nature’s stone turrets enchanted stood

[Column 2]
’Neath Sublimity’s silent spell. 
Oh fair as highlands of Paradise, seemed
The valley where Jordan’s bright waters
	gleamed,—
Where rolled the Salt Lake its billows along;
ehovah’s great name its perpetual song.
				VI
As maple leaves fall in Autumn’s bright glow,
Gathered back to their parent soil:—
So touched by the frosts that all earth lives know,
In manhood’s full prime, or time’s silvery snow, 
Utah’s pioneers ceased from toil.
They passed from the “City of Saints” to gain 
	The “City of Souls;” a few here remain,
And sweetly, in rich, ripened vintage attest 
Life’s beautiful Indian summer of rest.
				VII.
“They builded their monument loftier far
Than the Pyramid’s royal site,—
More lasting than brass;”—for the victories are,
As oft as returns harvests golden car,
Rewritten in letters of light.
Blest gift of their toil, the desert spring flows;
The wilderness solitudes bloom as the rose;
The grape’s chalice fills with memorial wine,
And flowers, swinging censers, hallow their
	shrine.
				VIII.
’Twas well for us all, with glad jubilee,
To enshrine the memorial year,
With Love’s votive paeans of soft melody, 
To prove Utah’s pioneers never can be
To the hearts of her children less dear.
Sweet music poured forth its proudest refrains,
And banners waved wide over hill-tops and
	plains,—
The resonant note from the organ’s deep throat
Sent swelling afloat, hallelujah strains.
				IX
Bright gardens mingled their choicest display
With the Sego-lily bells fair;
The silk and the gold of great Solomon’s day,
With treasure untold and costly array,  
Could never such vesture prepare. 
The roses unfolded their hearts of perfume;
The passionate glow of the cactus found room,
While crimson and green, and rainbow-dyed
	sheen,
Proved Utah the queen of fragrance and bloom.
With splendor of blossom and richness of grain
With nectar-filled spheres of the vine,—
Such fruitage of farm, and orchard and plain.
Epicurus might charm—Golconda again
Be revived in the ores from the mine—
Diana’s fleet deer, with its silver feet,
And its golden horns left its cast complete
In our Wasatch hills, where full-bosomed rills,
With clangor of mills, the treasure repeat.
Thrice Hail favored state of the golden West!
The all-ruling Ancient of Days.
Who guiding above, gave the pioneers rest,
Whose banner is love, will bless and hath blest—
Still sing to Him anthems of praise! 
God wrought wondrous things for them and for
	thee!—
Tell the proud story o’er mountain and sea,
How the jubilant throng moved to music along.
With triumphant song,—
				Hallelujah! Jubilee!
					ORIELLE CURTIS.


HAWAII.

	HAWAII is a group, or rather a string of
sunny islands of a gentle tropical climate
with Mercury between 75 and 80 the year
round, embosomed midst the placid
waters of the Pacific, 2,100 miles south-
west from San Francisco and nearly the
same distance north from Tahita. An off-
spring of the sea, the result of volcanic
upheavals, their origin verified by extinct
craters fastened here and there amidst the
hills and on the mountain hights of the
group, and by the still blazing fires of that
molten lake—the fiery Kilauea. Of the
ten islands two are little more than barren
rocks, two are used exclusively as cattle
ranges, and the six principal ones are
luxurious in bloom and beauty.
	Their extreme boundaries are about
300 miles apart and their aggregate
area a little more than 6,100 square miles.
This little “land of mystery” meets the
eye of the approaching voyager like a land
of dreams suddenly raised from the misty
waters by the spirits of the deep, or like
the mirage sun bathed and clothed in ver-
dure and peopled with sirens as luring may
be as were the tormentors of the ancient
Ulysses. Veiled in vapors that forever
cling to the lofty brow of the “Pali” an
ideal Paradise that reveals upon approach
a delightful reality. A place of stately
palms, tropical foliage and fern-embowered
by-paths, of gorgeous flowers and luscious
fruits, and a dusky, kind hearted people
whose lives, were it not for exotic influ-
ences, would be almost Edenesque, yet
withal a race that within a century has
dwindled from a healthy, happy nation—
nature’s own children—to a scattering few,
landless and poverty pressed.
	From lonely and sheltered nooks, where
his voice mingles with the murmur of the
lapping waves upon the whitened sand of
his beloved shores, the forgiving and spirit-
less Kauaka chants the “Meles” of his
shadowy past, rich in legendary lore and
peopled with gods and goddesses, divinely
endowed with wonderful powers and sym-
bolized within the sacred doors of their
temples. The traveler and tourist has
been proud to fill his cabinet with rare and
curious relics of the Islander’s mythical
past; relics of legends, reaching back a
thousand years or more; laes, kahilis, idols
and kapa cloth, emblems that have bedeck-
ed the skeleton breast of some long ago
hero chief, and bones and charms that have
gathered the dust of generations in the rock
sepulchers, protected by the rigorous
“tabu.”
	The royal mantle worn by the late King
Kalakaua during his coronation ceremonies
is a wonderful garment rare and beautiful,
composed entirely of small yellow feathers,
only one of which is found under the wing
of a small bird called Mamo. Tens of
thousands of feathers enter into the fabrica-
tion of this royal mantle, but few of which
now remain, emblems of Hawaiian patience,
skill and kingly glory.
	The botanist searching in nooks and


crannies following along picturesque by-
paths, finds a continual unfolding of new
delights. Among other rarities the
shrinking sensitive plant, and a wondrous
variety of delicate ferns. Most of the use-
ful and ornamental growth of the tropics
flourish among the deep foliage of the hills,
some of strong and rugged growth which
may be utilized for canoes and building
materials. The bread fruit, ohiei, guava,
bananna, papaia, mango, tamarind, orange and
other trees are clothed in perpetual green,
with stately palms between them and the
sea, gracefully bending their broad leaves
before the ocean-blown breeze.
	The valuable and fragrant sandal wood
once flourished on the plateaus and hill
slopes but in early commerce with the
whites it became an article of exchange
with the Chinese and to gratify the avarice
of King Kalakaua, to bedeck his royal self
and poi-fed wives with Oriental silks and
velvet, this classic and stately tree was
swept from the islands. A forlorn little
shrub with a faded pink blossom struggling
for existence in some forgotten spot is all
that remains of what was once a source of
Hawaiian wealth and pride. Where the
“lois” of thriving taro and sweet potato
were once the natives care, the cane and
coffee fields bespeak the prosperity of the
progressive “houri.”
	Native products as well as the people bear
evidence of deterioration. Since the advent of
cheap calicoes and shoddy cloth the Kanaka
no more estimates his wealth by his kapa
cloth and mattrasses of beaten bark and
woven rushes. This little archipeligo was
a stranger to the civilized world until the
closing years of the last century and the
race for many years, exchanged no word or
product with the rest of mankind. Their
origin may be traced to the ancient Cushites
of Arabia and their legends repeat the story
of the Jewish Genesis their implements of
industry and war were made of wood, stone
and bone, yet crude as they were, with
them they fought great battles, erected
temples to their gods, and constructed
barges and canoes which they navigated by
the stars. After the custom of the ancient
Israelites they built places of refuge, and
submitted to the decrees of the prophets,
firmly believing in their revelations and
prophecies. The elements were symbolized
by deities, and today after sixty years of
Christian teaching, when their temples are
destroyed and their priesthood dethroned
in a great measure, belief in their gods still
remains. Many of the natives still super-
stitiously throw offerings of fruit etc. into
the lurid depths of the awful, ever restless
caldron of Kilauea, many of them, too,
sicken, grow weak and pale under the con-
viction that one possessing priestly power
is offering prayers and incantations for their
death.
	“Pele,” a deity possessing great powers,
was greatly dreaded and feared. Her abode
was on the island of Hawaii in the lava
caves and fiery crevices of the different
volcanoes, visiting each at her pleasure.
Her anger was easily evoked and she would
cause streams of burning lava to flow from
Her volcanoes upon the lands of such as
neglected to feed her craters with suitable
offerings. Sometimes she would clothe her-
self in the form of a beautiful woman and
seek human association, and many are the
romantic stories of her love affairs and dar-
ing escapades. In 1791 a portion of the
army of Keona near the crater of Kil-

[Column 2]
auea was suffocated and Pele was accredit-
ed with this dreadful piece of work. A
more recent exibition of her powers occured
in 1882 in the village of Hilo, a devastating
stream of lava from Menna Loa had swept
downward twenty-five miles or more and
its line of descent was slowly but steadily
approaching the little town. Much labor
was expended in precautionary efforts and
many fervent prayers were offered, and still
the dreadful avalanche of fire continued
creeping onward and downward. Ruth, a
sister of the late Kamehamehas, was then
living in Honolulu and learning of the
threatened danger, chartered a steamer and
with her retinue left for the terror stricken
Hilo. Upon arriving she declared that
Pele would not refuse to listen to the pray-
ers of a Kemehaha, saying “I will save the
fish ponds of Hilo.” An altar was built
upon an elevation back of the village and
facing the still moving flow of lava. Here
she made her supplications and offerings to
the wrathful goddess. With confidence
and dignity she descended the hill and
returned to Honolulu, and with her depart-
ure the stream of fire ceased in its onward
course and the rough, glistening wall of
black lava stands an evidence of Pele’s
wrath and the faith of the stern, proud,
old chiefess, and though the temples of the
goddess were distroyed many, many years
before, still the natives whisper “’tis the
work of Pali.”
	Moving by way of of the Samoan and
Society Islands a great migratory wave
reached the Hawaiian shores about
the middle of last century. Naumala, a
distinguished chief, was the first to arrive
from the Southern isles. Other chiefs fol-
lowed and for several generations they lived
sequestered lives with no exchange what-
ever with the rest of the world. During
intervals of several hundred years other
migratory tides came sweeping from the
southward, and romantic and political con-
flict give plentiful material for legends of
valor and romance. On December 18th,
1877, Captain Cook, an officer in the Eng-
lish navy, sighted Oahu and upon landing 
was received by the people as a reincarna-
tion of their god Lono. The priests led
him to their temples and accorded him
divine honors. However, petty quarrels
between the sailors and the natives resulted
in more serious trouble, and finally Cap-
tain Cook with four of his men were killed,
but not eaten, as so many are disposed to
believe. It is not true that the Kanaka’s
were ever Cannibals. When the question
was put to them by Captain Cook’s men
they were horrified, and asked in return if
such was the custom among the whites.
There is no existing evidence that they
ever ate human flesh.
	In 1820 the first party of Christian mis-
sionaries arrived at the Islands from Mass-
achusetts, they were well received and
found the work of conversion easy. Other
missionaries followed from time to time,
acquired homes and substantial possessions
and controlled the government, and their
descendants are now among the prosper-
ous and influential of the Islands Church-
es, schools and printing presses have been
established and the native language has
become a written one, a growing business
interest has been developed as the years 
have passed, modern homes have supplant-
ed to a great extent the primitive grass
hut. The steam fire department, the rail-
way, the telephone and the electric ligh

[Column 3]
system all betokens the progress and civil-
ization under whose restraints and sur-
roundings the dark-skinned native is slowly
but surely sinking. The loathsome and
incurable leprosy carried thither by the
Chinese taints their blood, and in their
peaceful conflicts with other forces they
have become a dwindling, thriftless race.
Their footsteps are becoming weaker on the
wave-washed beach, and the echoes of their
weird “meles” and songs of aloho are
growing fainter and fainter among the fern
clad hills. To them and their romantic
past, their legends and sweet, simple music 
we can only say “aloho and aloho nui.”
				M. A. J. LAMBERT.


WOMANS EXPONENT


U. W. P. C.

	MINUTES of the U. W. P. C. held
August 31, 1897. President Fox called
the meeting to order at the usual time.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. E. B. Wells,
roll call answered by sentiments on “Suni-
mer.” Minutes of last meeting read and
approved. Business was first in order:
	Amendments to Art. III, Sec. 3 and By-
laws, Art. 2 of the constitution of the U.
F. W. C. were submitted by letter by the
Woman’s Club and read by the secretary.
A motion was made by Dr. Pratt and
seconded by Dr. Ferguson that the amend-
ment to Art III. Sec 3, as submitted by the
Woman’s. Club be accepted. Discussion of
Dr. Pratt’s motion followed. Intermission
was taken to partake of dainty cake and
nectar from the grape, a pleasant surprise
to the club from Dr. Pratt. After the
intermission Dr. Pratt withdrew her motion
and a motion by Mrs. E. B. Wells, second-
ed by Mrs. Dickinson, was substituted: that
these amendments be laid on the table till
next meeting. Carried.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells called the attention of
the club to lectures by Miss Ackerman at
the Tabernacle and Lyceum.
	Dr. Shipp was appointed critic for the
evening. The program was as follows:
	“The Press of the Present Day,” Dr.
Curtis. This was followed by a discussion
of this topic by the members.
	Dr. Shipp was excused from reading her
poem, Mrs. Hyde and Mrs. Kimball were
not present, and were fined accordingly.
The two papers were to have been “Wo-
man as a Nurse in War,” and “The Work
of Newspaper Women.” A paper on
“Jean Ingelow” by Mrs. Lovsey was sent
and read by Dr. Ferguson. Discussion of
this theme by members. Mrs. Dickinson
moved that a vote of thanks be extended to
Dr. Pratt for her dainty feast. Carried.
	The chair appointed Mrs. Brown, Mrs.
Dickinson and Mrs. Schiller on program
committee for the next two months. Bene-
diction by Mrs. Stephenson and meeting
adjourned for one month. Sentiments for
September from Mrs. Browning.
			ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec.


MISS MARIA LOUISE POOL is one of the
small band of New England women writers
who in the past few years have done so
much strong and original work. Her first
novel “Roweny in Boston," showed skill-
ful handling, and its local coloring made it
a story of unusual interest. Miss Pool was
born in Rockland, Mass.
	THE medical department of the Illinois
State University has decided to open its
doors to women.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE QUERY.

WRERE oh my soul art thou silently drifting?
	Hampered, distressed in the twilight or dark,
When will all circumstance changing and shifting
	Land on a bright shore thy rudderless bark?

Things once heart-cherished no more in posses-
		sion,
	Things once inspiring no more move the soul;
Whence comes the bitter and hated depression,
	Sickness and sadness beyond all control?

Is the day dawning, or cometh the sunlight,
	Once so entrancing as time onward flew?
Is all the future an indistinct twilight,
	Filled with dread shadows of ghosts old and
		new?

Ah! there’s revolt ’gainst so wild a conception,
	God moves the curtain or veileth the sun!
And the tried soul which sees but deception,
	Will find a rich pattern when life’s work is
		done.

Shadow and sun are alike to the Giver!
	His hand in wisdom appointeth the way,
The glory He willeth beyond the dark river,
	Will solve all the mystery shrouding today.

This faith is the beacon when rolleth the thunder,
	When clouds are so dense that man “gropes for
		the wall,”
This lesson unlearned makes life seem a blunder,
	Then cometh the query,—“Is God over all?”
						H. W. NAISBITT


[Column 1]
BANQUET TO JOSEPHINE R. WEST.

	A BEAUTIFUL tribute of love and re-
spect was paid to Sister Josephine West.
president ot the Weber Stake Primary
Association. A surprise banquet was
given her by the presidents and officers of
the Primary Associations of the different
wards in the Stake, to show their apprecia-
tion of her untiring labor for eighteen years.
	The Semi-annual conference of the
Primary Association convened in the Ogden
Tabernacle on Saturday, September 11, at
11 a. m. On the stand were a number of
Salt Lake visitors, who, by their presence,
were aiding in the success of the day. There
were the following members of the General
Board: Louie Felt, president; Lillie
Freeze, counselor; May Anderson, secre-
tary and treasurer; Belle Salmon, aid.
Also Sister Aurelia Rogers, first promoter
of Primary Associations; Sister Emily S.
Richards, one of the directors of the
Orphan’s Home at Salt Lake City; Eliza-
beth Y. Stanford, president of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Weber Stake, recently returned
from Washington, D. C. There were also
on the stand Sister West and one of her
counselors, Rose Canfield; also Sisters
Burton, Herrick and Moench; also Sister
Jane S. Richards, president of the Stake
Relief Society organization, and mother of
Sister West.
	The following brethren were also present:
Apostle Franklin D. Richards; President
L. W. Shurtliff, of Weber Stake, and
Elders Lorin Farr and Richard Ballantyne;
also a number of Bishops and their counsel-
lors.
	The large and beautiful building was
almost filled with little boys and girls in
their holiday attire looking happy and
sweet, a beautiful picture to behold.
	The conference was called to order by
President Josephine West. After singing and
prayer, the time was occupied in songs,
recitations and class exercises, interspersed
with short speeches from the visitors.

[Column 2]
Special mention should be made of Mrs.
Ruthinda Moench for the beautiful poem
composed and read by her for Sister West,
expressive of the loving sentiments of the
association towards her.
	Sister Marion Burton with a neat little
speech presented Sister West with a beauti-
ful gift from the Primary Association, a
heavy set of silver, lined with gold, consist-
ing of bowl and spoon, cream and sugar
bowl. This was a great surprise to Sister
West, and she responded in a brief but feel-
ing manner, expressing her appreciation of
the token of love.
	After singing, benediction was pronounc-
ed by President Middleton and conference
adjourned. The visitors and officers took
up the line of march in the following order:
Apostle Richards and family, Hon. Lorin
Farr and family, Presidents, Bishops and
families.
	Arriving at the banquet hall, the Third
ward Institute, we were greeted with a
beautiful sight, a feast for the eyes and
inner man. Three rows of tables the
length of the hall were filled with the
bounties of the earth, and decorated with
May flowers. While the guests were filing
along into their alloted seats, sweet music
was being discoursed by Misses Cannon
and Houtz and many fair daughters were
fluttering here and there, trying in their
sweet way to make all happy,
	Speeches were again indulged in for
awhile and the crowd began to disperse
with many handshakes and a “God speed
you” to Sister West in her journey.
	Much credit is due Sisters Rose Canfield,
C. C. Richards and their associates for the
success of the entertainment and banquet.
							    Ex.


[Column 1]
THE WOMEN OF AMERICA.

	I THINK it is not strange that we pause
for a moment in this enlightened day to
pay a tender tribute of praise to the silent
suffering hearts that have labored, yearned
and died for the cause of Liberty and the
prosperity of our nation. Labored in silence
and devotion, caring for no other honor
than to be worthy wives and mothers of
our heroes and noble men. Since the
memorable day when the Queen of Castile
offered her jewels to the dreamer of Genoa
to carry him out into the sea of darkness,
into the unknown world, the patient, lov-
ing sacrifices of woman has not only fol-
lowed but led in every movement for the
cause of humanity, and the glory of the
New World. Every student of history
around will remember the beautiful story
of Mrs. Winston giving of her substance to
fit out the “Mayflower” for its question-
able voyage across the wintry ocean. And
you will not forget how Mrs. Carver’s
bravery persuaded her husband, the Rev.
John Carver, the idol of the Pilgrims, to
join their expedition to the New World.
And the sad, sweet story of Rose Standish,
the dainty beauty of the Plymouth com-
pany, the flower and pride of all who knew
her, who died ’mid the vicissitudes of that
dreadful first winter. The name of Priscil-
la Mullins will never be forgotten, and the
less known but equally faithful Ann Brew-
ster, who nursed the sick and starving like
the very guardian angel of the company.
	Indeed the women of those days took no
active part in framing of national politics,
but their tender persuading love of patriotic
zeal led their husbands, sons and lovers to

[Column 2]
the van of battle as woman's love has ever
done since the chivalrous days of bold 
Knight erranty. And when the sons of 
Liberty were forming in the fields of battle
mothers, sisters and wives were laboring
arduously to provide them with food and
clothing to protect them with food and
clothing to protect them from the raw ele-
ments of those New England winters.
The wives of Jefferson and Adams urged
them on in the cause of American Indepen-
dence, as whose wives did not? The sad-
dest picture in the life of Washington is
that when parting to fill the office of Presi-
dent for the last time he said, “I am un-
willing at the close of a life so nearly con-
sumed in public cares to quit this peaceful
abode for an ocean of difficulties.” There
in his beautiful home at Mt. Vernon he
leaned his head upon the shoulder of his
aged mother and wept. “I will see you no
more,” she said, “but go my son, fulfill
your public trust, and may God’s peace and
your mother’s blessings attend you.”
That great, grand heart so terrible in war
could stand it no longer, weeping he
withdrew from her side forever. She the
molder of his character; she the guardian
angel; she the idol of his closing years is
only one bright star in the Empyrean of
America’s noble women.
	Today as we take a furtive glance over
the fields of American history, we are aston-
ished that little over a hundred years ago
the first door was left ajar that women
might enter the portals of a University.
Now nearly every University in the land
proudly admits her to its fountains of
knowledge, and thousands are exclusively
for her. She is emancipated in the body
politic, she is the proud heir of all the love
and honor of the American manhood.
	Recently it is said that Max O’Reil, the
celebrated French wit, made the assertion
that if he could choose his country and his
sex, he would choose to be an American
women. Now that the women of America
have been honored by the immortal author
of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” Harriet Beecher
Stowe, by Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady 
Stanton, Susan B. Anthony and Frances
Willard, with Honora Palmer and Mrs.
Eagle it will be no longer questioned that
the divine slumbering jealousy, for truth
and progress which has so long characteriz-
ed the hearts and lives of America’s noblest
women is capable of kindling into a proud
self-luminous flame to be an honor to her
nation and her home.
	The time has come when idle women as
idle, slothful, untrained men will be, shall
be looked upon with scorn. She must
henceforth be a self-sustaining helpmate to 
her husband, and his elevated, worthy, re-
spectable companion. Let us pledge our-
selves as mothers, sisters and wives in this
most promising nation of the world that we
will unite in the cause of progress and
liberty, that we may not only emulate the
examples of our foremothers but that we
may do our little to immortalize the closing
years of this great century as the golden
age of womanhood.
					EMILY RAY
Fillmore, Utah.


MISS EMMA C. SICKELS has been com-
missioned by Governor Tanner of Illinois,
a delegate to the meeting of the Farmers’
National Congress for 1897 to 1898, to
represent the Domestic Science Association,
of which she is president.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEP. 15, & OCT. 1, 1897


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the large Taber-
nacle in this city, Thursday, October 7,
1897, meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and
at 2. p. m. as usual. It is desirable that
each Stake organization of the Society
should be represented by the President or
an authorized representative. All mem-
bers of the Society and of the Church are
cordially invited, the meetings of the Con-
ference are open to all interested in charita-
ble or philanthropic work.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
					     President.
			JANE S. RICAARDS, 
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH
					    Counselors.


[Column 1]
RESPONSIBILITY OF WOMEN
VOTERS.

	THE women of this city and of the entire
state should constantly remember, and especi-
ally at election time, the responsibility rest-
ing upon them equally with men in regard
to voting, and in regard to selecting suitable
persons to fill any office of emolument or
trust within the gift of the people. In
accepting equal suffrage it was understood
that women also accepted the duties and
obligations as well as the privilege. And it
is certainly expected that a large majority of
women would act conscientiously in all
matters pertaining to the welfare of the
state including its several localities. When
cities and towns are well regulated and
wisely controlled the state is benefited; in
fact government begins first in townships
etc., spreading out into counties and so on;
and if, as is a fact of the Constitution of the
country, we have a government by the peo-
ple and for the people, every individual per-
son of years of accountability should accept
his or her portion of the actual responsibility;
and much more devolves upon those who
have the ballot in their hands.
	Women have in the past, thought men
careless of the great privilege accorded
them and now that it has come to pass that
the women of the Rocky mountain states
have been favored with the franchise, and
equal political privileges, they should see
to it, that they should not fall into the
errors of partisanship or of indifference to
the public weal.
	In this state particularly where so many
women pay taxes, the financial and

[Column 2]
economic welfare should be a consideration,
as well as the moral tone of the community.
Reform in city government is the cry in
many places, and at the present time, we
who live in Salt Lake City, are especially
desirous of seeing a better condition of
affairs, and the laws and ordinances on the
statutes more strictly administered than
they have been of late. If there are seri-
ous grievances and wrongs that reflect upon
the well being and morals of the commun-
ty, then it is possible that radical measures
must be taken in order to set things right.
	The women of this city have great
power for good in their hands at this critical
time, if they will only exercise it wisely,
and this coming election will be a golden
opportunity to make the ballot count on the
side of right, justice and reform.
	Mothers who see and know the great in-
crease in vice of various kinds, should most
seriously take advantage of the time, and
consider what strong measures can be
taken to eradicate the existing evils, and
prevent future spread of wrong-doing that
they may not be answerable for the down-
fall of the innocent and unsuspecting. And
in the matter of voting it should certainly
be the man who is honest, upright and
true as well as capable, instead of the party
to which he belongs; or the woman, should
a woman be nominated who is patriotic
enough (and has the essential welfare of
the city at heart) to stand by the cause of
reform and not be swerved to the right or
left by any specious reasoning of men, who
seek place or power with a view to personal
aggrandizement, or from any other unworthy 
motive.
	As long as there is a wrong to be righted
women should have the courage of their
convictions and stand firm as the everlast-
ing hills for the triumph of right.
	Women have much at stake in this mat-
ter because of the moral sense of obligation
which it is expected they will exercise, and
also that the whole nation is looking on to
see how women who have this precious
boon, the ballot, will carry themselves;
whether they will yield to the dominant
influences that prevail among men, and
become particapants in the political affairs
that pass current as being the proper
thing, or if they will still remain womanly
and motherly, maintaining those principles
that tend to foster and strengthen the best
attributes of mankind.
	Women have not asked for suffrage be-
cause of place or power, or to crowd men
out of the ranks of the wage-earners or pro-
fessions, but that they may be acknowledged
as being an equal in the work and business
of the great world in which all must live
and take part, along all lines that lead to
progress and development in the civiliza-
tion of of mankind in the best sense of these
terms and conditions. This great work
can never be done well by one half of the
human family; it is the opinion of all who
think deeply that men and women must do
the work together, and unitedly.


[Column 1]
FORTY YEARS PRESIDENT.

	SISTER SARAH M. KIMBALL has presid-
ed over the Relief Society in the Fifteenth
ward in this city over forty years. The
anniversary occurred on the 9th of last
February. The occasion was recognized
only on September 16, of this year, as it
was not convenient to celebrate it last
winter.

[Column 2]
	Preparations were made to have it a
unique affair, and about two hundred and
fifty invitations were issued to guests, most
of the number being those who resided
in the ward and had been generous in help-
ing to sustain the Relief Society; other
guests were General and Stake officers of
the Society and of the Church.
	The most noted visitor was a cousin
of Sister Kimball’s Chief Justice Granger of
the State of Iowa, who occupied a seat of
honor and who made an address which was
very commendatory of the labors and efforts
of the Mormon people, and particularly so
of his cousin whom he spoke of in the most
affectionate terms, she being his nearest
living woman relative. The Judge has
taken pains while here to look into matters
from an educational and business stand-
point and has examined our affairs without
prejudice.
	It so happened that the most important
personage, Sister Kimball herself who had
planned the whole affair, was not able to
attend the banquet on the evening it was
given and it was a great disappointment to
all those who had assisted as well as the in-
vited guests.
	The hall was handsomely decorated for
the occasion with flags, banners and beauti-
ful flowers, the tables were loaded with
fruits and delicious viands in great variety,
and the scene was most inviting except for
the absence of the one whom all would
have delighted in honoring. Bishop R. T.
Burton was also detained at home and Sis-
ter Zina D. H. Young and her counselors.
	Rodney T. Badger who had been selected
as toastmaster (and who, by the way, did
himself and the company great credit as
well as the President) took charge in the
absence of Sister Kimball, and when the
guests were seated Bishop Elias Morris pro-
nounced the blessing.
	A communication in writing from Sister
Kimball expressing her regret at not being
able to attend and giving some few ideas of
her continuous work in the ward, modestly
expressed, and alluding to the many
changes etc., was read by Brother Thomas
Hull and was deeply appreciated by the
company. In recognition Elder C. W.
Penrose moved that a committee wait upon
Sister Kimball and convey to her the love
and esteem of the assembly, and congratu-
lations upon the success of her many
labors and long service in the field of wo-
man’s work, in not only philanthropic but
many other directions in the Church and in
the State. Bishop Morris appointed Thomas
Hull, Nephi Morris and Sister E. B. Wells.
During the absence of the committee Elders
Jos. E. Taylor and C. W Penrose addressed
the assembly. In the early part of the
evening Bishop Morris, Sisters M. I. Horne
E. B. Wells and Judge Granger were called
upon. Sisters Horne and Wells spoke
specially upon the Relief Society, its labors
and results. A song by Mrs. Maggie
Hull was delightfully rendered and the
lady warmly applauded. After the com-
mittee returned a brief report was made by
Sister E. B. Wells and accepted by the
Bishop and the guests, and after some other
appropriate remarks to those who had aided
etc., the guests rose and sang “Praise God
from whom all blessings flow,” and Coun-
selor Joseph Morgan closed with prayer.


THE Countess of Aberdeen will contri-
bute an article on ‘‘Woman’s Place and
Work in Canada,” to a new encyclopedia
of Canada, edited by J. Cantell Hopkins.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	THE quarterly conference of the Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society was held in the
Assembly Hall, Sept. 18, 1897, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne presiding. On the stand
were her counselors, A. T. Hyde, and C. C.
Cannon, also Z. D. H. Young, B.W. Smith,
J. C. Howe, E. Stevenson, Rachel Grant,
E. S. Taylor and E. Webb.
	Opened by singing “Where the voice of
friendship’s heard.” Prayer by Sister
Paul. Singing “Guide us O Thou great
Jehovah.” Statistical and financial re-
ports were read and adopted.
	Sister Horne gave instructions to the
secretaries in regard to keeping proper
accounts, and said this was an important
organization for the sisters of the Latter-
day Saints. The officers should be diligent
and if they cannot represent their wards
they should see that some one does. The
Prophet had promised that great power
should be given the women; they should
have power to teach and expound the
Scriptures, that by coming together we
get the bread of life. The speaker said she
would like the sisters to keep up their testi-
mony meetings and look after the poor and
infirm, and not the strong as they could
take care of themselves.
	President B. Young said it was the duty
of the sisters to build halls and granaries,
and store up wheat for a time of need.
She had visited some of the country wards
and was pleased to see they were doing
their duty and were energetic in storing
wheat. Had visited the Sanpete confer-
ence at Gunnison and found it well attend-
ed and doing a good work; was pleased
with the good reports that were given of
this Stake. Closed by singing Doxology.
Benediction by Sister Julia Druce.
	AFTERNOON SESSION.—Opened by sing-
ing “O ye mountains high.” Prayer by
Sister. Rachel Grant. Singing “We thank
Thee O God for a Prophet.”
	Sister Horne stated that Mrs. Ella W.
Hyde had sent in her resignation as assist-
ant secretary, which was accepted and a
vote of thanks given for her past services.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said she was
grateful that she could come here and feel
the Spirit of God; felt we were in the
Kingdom of God and associated with those
who had made great sacrifices. We had
left everything to look upon the face of the
Prophet, and how we had been blessed by
obedience to the Gospel. She was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society when the Pro-
phet Joseph spoke to the sisters. Said it
gave her joy to meet with the sisters and
to know they were striving to live near the
Father.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke of the good
reports; and the teachings she had received
from Prophets, Elders and others; the Gos-
pel was being taught to every nation,
tongue and people.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde said we did not
appreciate the Relief Society as we should.
It was a school and we should encourage
faith, and above all get the Spirit of the
Lord.
	E. S. Taylor, general president of the
Y. L. M. I. A. said she was heart and
soul with the work. Spoke of the many
faithful workers in Zion and the good results
of the Relief Society.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon said it was a
great privilege to belong to the Relief
Society and urged the presidents of the

[Column 2]
Society to read the Church works, and ap-
point some one to discuss them.
	Sister Horne in her closing remarks gave
instructions in regard to the reports being
sent in by Feb. 1. Conference adjourned
for three months. Singing “The Spirit of
God like a fire is burning.” Benediction
by Sister E. Webb.
				M. V. TAYLOR.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
Saturday, September 4th, 1897, President
M. I. Horne presiding. Singing “Oh say
what is truth.” Prayer by Sister Margaret
P. Young. Singing “Welcome best of all
good meetings.” The minutes of the pre-
vious meeting were read and accepted.
	President Horne felt very much grati-
fied at seeing so many present, and express-
ed her desire that we might have a pleasant
meeting. She said the Spirit went from
heart to heart, and that she loved to hear
the testimonies of her sisters, said the Lord
had said those who bore testimony of Him,
He would bear testimony of them. Felt
all were blessed who did this, and said
Satan tried to make us believe that we
could not bear our testimony and gave us
those frightened feelings that kept us from
doing so.
	Sister Frances Smith and Elizabeth Paul
bore strong testimonies.
	Sister Pixton said she felt well and bore a
strong testimony. Thought that our
hymns were really inspired by God and felt
they were sermons in themselves. Said
there was nothing to be more desired than
the Spirit of God, it was this that cheered
the Saints on their long and lonely journey.
Exhorted the sisters to be humble and put
their trust in God.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and felt she wanted to do all the
good she could. She knew we all had to
work out our own salvation.
	Sister Margaret P. Young was glad that
she was one who embraced the Gospel in
her youth, and felt grateful for what she
had passed through. Asked God to bless
us all.
	Sister Raleigh spoke of the goodness of
God to her and hoped she would be able to
do all things that were required of her.
	A sister bore her testimony to the heal-
ing of her little son and knew it came from
the Lord.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball spoke of visiting
at Sister Pixton’s house and the prayer that
she offered before sitting down to the table.
Was very much pleased with the testimon-
ies of the sisters, particularly of the sister
who spoke of the healing of her little son,
and said we should live near enough to
God that He would hear us and whisper to
us what to do in time of sickness. Spoke
strongly on faith and said this is what we
should cultivate. She knew we were a
blest as well as a chosen people.
	Sister Isabella Workman testified to the
goodness of God to her and said each morn-
ing she asked Him to give her strength for
that day.
	Sister Mary L. Morris said she had been
quite sick and in a great deal of pain, and
she knelt down and asked the Lord what
she should do that she might be made well.
After she arose she heard her son come in
and she asked him to administer to her
which he did, and with the use of conse-

[Column 2]
crated oil she was healed, for which she
felt to praise and thank God.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said she felt we
were blessed in having the dearly loved sis-
ters with us who knew and worked with
the Prophet Joseph. Urged the sisters to
do Temple work, she did not know what
she should do if she could not go there, even
if it were only once a month. Felt this
coming election we should make a subject
of prayer which way to vote, as much as
anything else. Prayed that we might ever
be guided by the Holy Spirit.
	President Horne gave out the notice that
two weeks from now was the quarterly con-
ference. Said many times she had felt the
prayers of her sisters, especially the other
day when she had rather over-done by
taking a long drive to attend a conference;
the next day she was entirely prostrated
and she had another important meeting to
attend, but she prayed to the Lord to help
her, that it was His work that she was en-
gaged in, and would He not help her? She
said she laid down for a little while and
went to sleep, and when she awoke she
was greatly refreshed and felt better than
she had for some time. Felt this was
pretty well for one who was 79 years old.
Felt grateful to the Lord for these bless-
ings and prayed His choicest blessings
might be upon us.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Counselor
E. Webb.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec’y.


SAN FRANCISCO LETTER.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	Feeling sure the sisters in Zion would
be pleased to hear something of the mission
work in California, I shall first tell of the
Relief Society organized by President E.
H. Nye, June 3, 1897, at 508 Fulton St.,
San Francisco.
	Sister W. A. Rattenbery was appointed
President; Isabella Y. Sewell First Counselor;
Harriet Simpkins, Second Counselor; Chir-
cazade Woodward, treasurer; Ida. M. Sarll,
secretary and teacher. There are about
twenty-eight members in all, and a more
earnest, loving band of sisters could not be
found on this beautiful earth. Each one is
striving to help the other in her work. 
	We meet each Thursday of the week, the
regular business part of the meeting is first
attended to, then the remainder of the after-
noon is turned into a sewing bee. The
meeting is held in the parlors of the mission
house, 915 Golden Gate Ave. I should say
mission home, for home it is to all the
Elders, with Sister Nye as mother and
friend to all who come. Her “boys” as she
loves to call them, are never turned away to
seek food or lodging elsewhere. Now to
return to the Relief Society work. Much
good is being done, several quilts have
been made, besides the mending being done
each week for the Elders.
	It has been a new and novel sight to 
some of our visiting sisters from Utah, to
see the Elders bringing in their mending to
be done. One with a bundle of socks,
another a coat minus several buttons, etc.
During our sewing hours we have had
many visitors from Utah, among those of
recent date being Sister Foster and daugh-
ter Laura, Ida Fames of Salt Lake City;
Sister Harriet Hoution of Logan; Lucy
Hoveing, Misses Owen, and Williamson of
Wellsville.


[Column 1]
	We have been much encouraged by the
visits of these sisters, and they in turn have
expressed themselves as having much en-
joyed meeting with us here, and helping
in the mission field.
	August 6th being President Nye’s birth-
day, Sister Rattenbery, president of the
Relief Society, and her co-laborers gave
him a surprise party. He with the Elders
having gone to hold a street meeting,
which they are accustomed to do, when he
was sent for to see some Utah friends at
his home, which had been beautifully dec-
orated with lovely flowers, gifts of friends.
In the meantime the Saints had gathered
at the house awaiting his return in the
darkened parlors. As he entered the room
the gas was turned on, and all arose and
sang “Now let us rejoice in the day of sal-
vation.”
	President Nye was then reminded of his
natal day by a “Birthday Greeting” com-
posed and delivered by Sister Rattenbery.
	Elder Parkinson then presented him with
a silver headed cane with his name delicate-
ly engraved thereon, which was given by
the Elders in the mission.
	President Nye then gave a short history
of his life. Sister Talmage of Salt Lake
rendered a vocal solo, Miss Gertrude Ash-
ly of Ogden gave a recitation, and several
other members of the branch contributed to
the evening’s entertainment with music
and recitations.
	A fine collation was partaken of and a
delightful social time was spent. Bene-
diction by Brother Loveless. All who
were present felt that they had cause to re-
joice in being there.
	The Woman’s Exponent is gladly re-
ceived here and read with interest in Cali-
fornia.
					IDA M. SARLL,
	Secretary of Relief Society of San Fran-
cisco, 915 Golden Gate Ave.

SACRAMENTO LETTER.
Dear Sister:
	YOUR dear, kind and helpful letter receiv-
ed and I take pleasure in replying the best
can under my present circumstances. I
feel I cannot do you the justice you deserve,
but I deemed it necessary to give you the
report you desired, and as far as we could
we have done so. Our last meeting was a
good one. We always meet the first
Tuesday after Fast Sunday. There were
six present at our last meeting and I was
so glad for I need the sisters to help and
strengthen me. I feel so weak as presi-
dent, as I have never had any kind of ex-
perience in any organization; but we are
doing the best we can and hope to see the
Society grow and prosper. The six mem-
bers are always present, some are ill often
and can attend but seldom, while others
never attend any meeting, but I think this
may be the case everywhere. Then for
our encouragement we have several investi-
gating who seem so true, honest and near
the kingdom, I feel sure we shall have a
strong Society in the near future.
	Our dear sister, Mary Christenson, is a
Saint in very deed. She is at present very
ill, the day before the Society met last she
went and called upon all the sick and aged
and over did herself and was taken ill that
night. She is almost seventy years of age,
and so bright and ambitious I do not know
what I should do without her counsel and
assistance. We missed her much at our

[Column 2]
meeting, and desire to give her especial
mention. Please insert this in the report
f you will, she actually does more for the
branch than she is able, and outshines
us younger ones in ambition.
	Dear sister you say you would love to
hear some of my experiences. I will say
I should enjoy telling you and will some
other time, God willing, but it would take
too much time now as every moment of my
time belongs to others. Yet I will say I
feel as one of the favored women of the
Father, I saw one of the Nephites and
learned the Gospel twenty years ago, but
did not understand it. I was professing
the Methodist faith at that time. Four
years ago I had a vision of a temple and
angels and was told things that made me
dissatisfied with my Church, which had
changed to the Baptist. I sought every-
where for the true church, and religion for
ten years, and when I became weak and
exhausted and still more dissatisfied and
almost discouraged, I went in secret prayer
and plead with my Heavenly Father. I
could not find Him among the churches as
satisfying to my soul. Elder Joseph
Shepherd of Paris, Idaho, came that day,
and when I heard him I understood the
Nephite and my vision, and for two years
I have had bliss complete, trials without
number, heavy burdens, but like Paul I
thank God heartily for them, for it brings 
me nearer to the Saints and Zion.
	Much sickness has been in my family for
years, and all was summed up in one hor- 
ror a month ago. I have had a tumor in
my breast for some time and for months it
has been very painful. The doctors told
me to have it taken off in haste, make no
delay, and were planning to do so; but I
remembered God says in His word: “I
have delivered thee out of six troubles and
I will bring thee out of the seventh,” and I
fasted and prayed, and the dear Elders
administered to me and it went away
immediately. Praise be to His holy name!
I feel like giving glory to such a Father,
that would rather give his children “bread
than a stone.”
	Sister Lydia Phelps of Salt Lake, former-
ly of this city, aged seventy-one, has just
come to visit me and I am so glad to see
and welcome her. She is the daughter of
William Brewster, and her husband was
William Waterman Phelps, his father W.
W. Phelps, wrote many of our beautiful
hymns. She has just read your letter to
me, and she says, “Give them my love
and say how I would love to be there.”
	Now dear sister this is not as I would
like to have written, and as I said before I
would have given you an account in full if
time permitted. I am also a busy woman,
going continually among the sick and weak,
for it gives me strength to bear others
burdens; the Savior bears mine. “I cast
my cares upon Him, for He careth for me.”
I send love to Sister Zina Young and the
Relief Society. 
	Your sister in the Gospel, with love
			FANNY H. THACKHAM.
MINUTES OF MEETING.
	Minutes of the Sacramento Relief Soci-
ety held at Sister Thackham’s, September 7,
1897, President Thackham presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “We thank
Thee O God for a prophet.” Prayer was
offered by President Thackham. Singing
“O ye mountains high.” Enrolled on
books eleven, present six. Minutes of pre-

[Column 3]
vious meeting read and approved as cor-
rected.
	Sister Smither remarked that she was
pleased with the work of the Relief Soci-
ety and thought there was much good for
us to do. She hoped the Society would
progress, and still continue to do good.
	Sister Ella Smith remarked that she
thought the Society was very good, and
hoped it would continue.
	Sister Iwa Adams remarked that the Re-
lief Society was a necessity to the Church,
that to be good Christians we must have
charity and help the members that are in
need in any way we can.
	Sister May Sarll hoped the Society Would
continue and be the means cf doing much
good.
	President Thackham was glad to hear
the expressions of the sisters, and to see
the interest that they took in the Society.
She believed Joseph Smith had said,
“Every virtuous woman should belong to
the Relief Society.” She was pleased to
see so many present and she felt strength-
ened to hear the testimonies of the sisters,
and advised all to call on the sisters who
were unable to attend, to encourage and
comfort them as much as possible. She
felt strengthened by the encouragment
given her by the interest the members
showed, and she thanked God for the help
and aid of her Counselors.
	While sewing on the quilt the members
had a very pleasant time in conversing on
the good of the Society. After, singing
“Do what is right” the meeting was
closed with prayer by Sister Smith.
				MAY SARLL, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A DISTINGUISHED FRENCH WO-
MAN.
	IN the year 1890, at the time of the
Johnstown flood, she took an active part in
rendering assistance to the sufferers, be-
lieving it to be her duty as a representative
of the Red Cross Society to which she had
sworn allegiance. Her efforts at this time
were greatly appreciated and a vote of
thanks was extended to her by the execu-
tive committee of the society.
	It is well, I think, to say right here
something of the objects and aims of this
society of which there is not half enough
known for the general enlightenment of the
people: The society was organized for the
relief of suffering by war, pestilence, fam-
ine, flood, fire or other calamities of suffici-
ent magnitude to be deemed national in ex-
tent. This society is subject to the call of
the national committee, the national presi-
dent of the society in America being Clara
Barton of Washington, D. C., whose fame
is widely known in the G. A. R., and
much good has been done by her in the
Red Cross Society in America.
	To return to our subject. In the year
1891 after remaining in Philadelphia three
years, her hand was sought in marriage by
H. V. Cleophas, one of the first settlers of
Big Piney, Wyo., who was an old friend of
her girlhood days in her happy home in
sunny France. The marriage ceremony
was performed in Philadelphia, after which
Mr. and Mrs. Cleophas started for their
western home, taking with them the many
blessings and good wishes showered upon
them by their faithful and loving friends in
the Quaker City. They experienced no
little difficulty in reaching their journey’s
end, being obliged to travel nine days over


[Column 1]
land, through snow-covered mountain
roads and finally, after many hardships,
their home was reached. Mrs. Cleophas
has a beautiful home situated within 80
miles of the Yellowstone Park. The scen-
ery is picturesque and magnificent. “Cot-
ton wood Ranch” is an immense property,
woodland abounds, majestic trees spread
their giant limbs and sheltering leaves about
the Cottonwood creek and the Green river
that merrily flows in zigzag course all over
the vast domain. There is a beautiful
island covered with cottonwood trees and
luxuriant grass; all this is surrounded by
mountains, a gigantic belt of stone. 
	Within her home everything is elegantly
and artistically arranged. She has a
library of upwards of 300 books, contained
within a carved oak case, which has been
in the family de Horn since the time of
Louis IV, and was the property of the
great Buffon. Mrs. Cleophas is a very
busy woman, conducting a very extensive
correspondence and attending to the entire
care of the household without help, writing
for several papers published in France,
where she is well known as a literary wo-
man, writing under the nom de plume
“Michel Andre,” and sending out her
words of cheer to many here in America.
She is first of all concerned in the happi-
ness of her husband and her home, con-
fident that whatever else of her
time and herself she has to give belongs to
humanity, to the service of her fellowmen
and women, and in the fulfillment of the
best service she can give, her life is spent.
	Among the opportunities coming to her
in her new home, was the possibility of
opening a postoffice at her home, thereby
benefiting the community. Heretofore she
had experienced much trouble with the in-
adequate mail services or facilities of her
isolated residence and a 16 mile drive each
week to reach the postoffice seemed un-
necessary, providing a postoffice could be
established nearer. A year ago Mrs.
Cleophas applied for a postoffice and re-
ceived a most courteous reply from the
government officials at Washington, D. C.,
they understanding the applicant to be a
woman of large attainment and great
earnestness of purpose, and recognizing
her executive ability, appointed her as
assistant to H. V. Cleophas, who was
appointed postmaster, the office to be named
Cleo, which is an abbreviation of Cleophas.
Just to show the indomitable will and
courage of Mrs. Cleophas, and to show her
true worth as a noble woman, I will speak
of one of her trials. At the time that she
applied for the postoffice, the postmaster at
Big Piney, where she had been accustomed
it send for' her weekly mail at such a dis-
tance, for reasons not known, waged war
against her, sending letters to Washington,
D. C., to post office officials there, calling
her “stupid and ignorant,” said that “the
postoffice would not pay and was not need-
ed, and that she lacked ability to run it.”
All this and more was said by the man who
had never met Mrs. Cleophas, and owing
to his interference, notwithstanding the
fact that Mr. Cleophas was appointed post-
master in August and received all material
and everything to open the office with on
the 3rd day of October, the Cleo post office
was not opened for business until the 7th
day of February. During many months
and up to the present time Mr. and Mrs.
Cleophas have been sorely tried and perse-
cuted beyond endurance, until at last Mrs.

[Column 2]
Cleophas has placed herself under the pro-
tection of the government officials, who
were very glad to serve her. Her’s is a
life calculated to inspire great respect and
she has shown remarkable tact and good-
ness of heart in her generous treatment of
one who sought to injure her, and it would
seem that when the true facts of the case
are known, and there are good and brave
men in Wyoming who will not allow such
insults to pass unnoticed, and it would
seem that the people of Wyoming could do
no better than to sustain and support Mrs.
Cleophas in her undertakings, and help her
to promote the welfare of the state and
county where she lives. It is her aim to
elevate and purify the atmosphere and
social status of the place where she lives,
and if by doing good she inspires the enmity
of those who seek to retard the growth of
the settlement of the place, and if these
people who have never met her continue to
make her life among them a continual war-
fare, then it is high time that the good
citizens arouse themselves and come to her
aid, otherwise there will be a blot upon the
reputation of the citizens who are sworn to
honor the rights of women. Good, true
women are needed in every community and
are a blessing wherever found, and Mrs.
Cleophas is truth itself, a progressive wo-
man, self-reliant and a chaste and noble
character, before whom every true man
would do homage.
	Mrs. Eugenie Cleophas is 42 years old.
Her carriage is stately, yet gracious. Her
manners are a combination of extreme
dignity and exceeding meekness, without a
trace of self consciousness or egotism. She
possesses the rare faculty of adapting her-
self to all classes of people, and hence
makes many friends and retains their affec-
tion. Piling high above her forehead is a
waving mass of soft, silken white hair,
which brings out the beauty of her dark
blue eyes, their tenderness reflecting the
beautiful soul within. Her complexion has
the natural freshness of a girl’s and her
smiling lips complete an ideal picture. She
exercises a beneficial influence upon all
with whom she comes in contact. She is
an accomplished musician, a woman of
beautiful character and magnetic person-
ality. She is prominently identified with
many societies, and is adored by many
people in France and all over the United
States. All through her present troubles
her womanly modesty asserted itself and
she would not give publicity to the in-
famous treatment she has received, she
sought for peace rather than bring herself
before the public gaze. But at last her
friend's who know of her trials must rally
to her assistance without delay, when a
man who calls himself a patriot and a
soldier, treats with disrespect a woman of
the Red Cross Society, before which every
soldier kneels in recognition of the great
work performed by them, it is time that
the public at large are informed of it.
Brave men and true soldiers do not wage
war against women, and it must seem
strange to our sister, accustomed all her
life to the society of true men and women,
to be insulted now for doing all in her
power to improve the condition of those
around her. One instance worthy of note
which will, I think, prove the assertion
herein made relative to her prominence in
the Red Cross Society, occured while she
was filling the position of professor of
languages at Philadelphia in 1889. The

[Column 3]
French warship, the Arethuse, came from
France, and while in port at Philadelphia
gave a brilliant reception. Mrs. Cleophas,
then Mme. Block Halbout de Horn, was
honored by a special invitation from
Admiral Brown de Colstown to attend the
entertainment given on the bridge of the
ship, as a representative of the French
branch of the Red Cross Society. She
attended and was accorded every honor at
the command of French officers and sailors
aboard the Arethuse. Mrs. Cleophas has
been actively engaged in hospital work,
having been a member of the society called
Les Dames du Calvaire, a private order
founded by a rich widow, and with only
widows in the order, their work being
much the same as that of the Sisters of
Charity. Having a hospital of their own
wherein only cancer cases are received; and
amid all the sufferings of said hospital this
woman, with the character of an angel, has
sought to alleviate the painful suffering of
many who were stricken down with an in-
curable disease.
	Space will not permit me to relate half
that could be said of the good deeds per-
formed by this true-hearted woman.
	I am personally acquainted with Mrs.
Cleophas and know her to be all that a true
woman can be.				Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

		AMELIA READ BAILEY.
	Amelia Read Bailey, the daughter of William
and Sarah Read, was born at North Crawlen,
Buckingshire, England, October 2, 1813. She
was married to Henry Bailey June 20, 1833 and
died at Ogden, Utah, September 10, 1896.
	She was the mother of ten children, five girls
and five boys, had forty-two grandchildren and,
four great grandchildren.
	Sister Bailey became a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, among the
first after the work was commenced in England,
and Father and Mother Bailey, as they were
familiarly known, kept an open house to the
Elders from 1840 until 1877. at which time they
gathered with the Saints in Zion, and after hav-
ing resided in several parts of Utah finally settled
in Ogden as their future home.
	The funeral services over the remains of 
Grandma Bailey were held in the Second ward
meeting house under the direction of Bishop
Robert McQuarrie. The speakers were Elder
Thomas Hull of Salt Lake City, and Elders
Charles Welch and Joseph Hall. Bishop Mc-
Quarrie offering closing remarks. All spoke
earnestly and energetically of the character and
life of Sister Bailey, who died as she had always
lived, a devoted wife, a fond and loving mother
and a true Latter-day Saint.
	A large crowd of people assembled to pay
their last tribute of respect to their departed sis-
ter, and after the impressive ceremonies a large
cortege followed the remains to its last resting
place, to await the resurrection of the just.
							COM.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	ROSINA MARION CARTER DUBOIS, the beloved
wife of Leo G. Dubois anddaughterof Wm.F. and
Elizabeth Howard Carter, born in Santaquin,
June 10, 1870, died July 9, 1897, aged 27 years
29 days. She was a beloved and efficient help to
her widowed mother, who always kept her by
her side from her birth until she departed this
life.
	She was born and raised in the Church and died
as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.
Though her days were not many upon the earth
they were well spent. As a daughter and wife
she was loving, persevering and kind, and would
often say to her aged mother "Mother you rest
and let me work.”
	She was a faithful member in the Relief Soci-
ety, and was always punctual in attending to her
duties. Her departure was sudden, being sick
but a few days, when her pure spirit returned to
the Father who ave it.


Our sister does not need our tears,
	She seems to say to all
“Be up and doing death may come,
	Be ready for his call."

We bow to God our Father’s will,
	And humbly ask that He
Shall comfort all the mourning friends
	That they His hand may see.

	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in
His alwise Providence to call from our midst by
the hand of death our much respected sister,
Rosina Marion Carter Dubois, therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That we the members of the Re-
lief Society of Santaquin do sympathize with the
bereaved husband, mother, brothers and sister,
and relatives in the loss of a kind and affectionate
daughter.
	RESOLED, That we cherish her memory and re-
gard her virtue as ever worthy in her energy and
perseverence to the canse of truth
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be placed
upon the records of the Relief Society, also that
a copy be presented to the bereaved husband and
mother. Also the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.
ELIZABETH WALL.
HANNAH KIRKMAN,
NETTIE TIETJEN,
Committee


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXHIBIT AT TENNESSEE
CENTENNIAL.

	THE rude pioneers cabin at the Tenn-
essee Centennial is a one-story hut of un-
hewn logs, about twenty feet square, roofed
with split poplars and having a huge
chimney of sticks and clay. Its rough floor
is of earth, and its walls unceiled. It has
one unglazed window. A hand loom and a
spinning wheel, which were actually touch-
ed by tired hands long since dead; a wide
fireplace, where the simple meals were
cooked; a rude bed and chairs, all tell of
what the pioneer women endured and
wrought.
	Near the old cabin is the Woman’s Build
ing, the decoration of which is not artists
alone, but collectors, dealers in antiques,
tapestries, armor, importers of stamped
leather, carved furniture, Oriental goods
and pottery, designers and manufacturers
of stained glass, ecclesiastical decorations
and furnishings, embroideries and illumin-
ations, mosaic workers and others have
contributed. The old Dutch chairs and
table and brasses, pottery, armor and cab-
inet transport the beholder into mediæval
times.
	The library is of Flemish oak; its shelves
are crowded with choice volumes from the
pens of women alone; its cabinets hold
treasures of art, jewels, bric-a-brac and his-
toric relics. The Colonial sitting room is
quaint, and the Colonial bedroom has
mahogany furnishings and silver sconces.
The New York room has yellow silk hang-
ings, twany burlaps, and light wood finish-
ings. Carved Venetian chairs and tables,
Empire, Colonial and Vernis Martin cabi-
nets, filled with porcelains and bric-a-brac,
are there, and antique Italian oil jars and
beautiful pictures. Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. PHŒBE HEARST of San Francisco
has given the Mother’s Club of Aberdeen,
S. D., $100. Mrs. Hearst supports twelve
free kindergarten schools in the country.
	A NEW club has been organized in New
Orleans, Mrs. H. L Behrens, president. It
is called the Lillian Whiting Club, for the
well-known Boston Journalist, whose letters


have been a literary feature of the New
Orleans Sunday Times-Democrat for many
years.


[Column 1]
Mrs Kate Bridewell Anderson,
	Formerly of New Orleans and re-
cently of Ogden, has opened a vocal
studio in Unity Hall, 28 W. Third
South. Operatic repertoire a special-
ty. Hours from 10 until 2 p.m., ex-
cept Wednesdays and Saturdays.

Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

CONFERENCE RATES

Via the Or[-]gon Short Line.
	To Salt Lake City and return, as fol-
low[-]:

From.		Rate.
Huntington
	(Or[-]............ $[-]3 30
	Idaho—
Weiser.......... 22 15
Payet[-]e........... 21 45
Ontario (Or)... 21.25
	Idaho—
Caldwell......... 19.70
Boise............. 20.[-]5
Meridian....... 19.75
Nampa.......... 19.25
Orchard......... 17.60
Moun'n Home 16 50
Gle[-]n's Ferry. 15.00
Blis[-]............... 13.85
Shoshone...... 12.40
Ketchum........ 15.90
Halley........... 15.75
Bellevue......... 15.05
Kimama......... 10.80
Minidoka...... 8 50
Amer'n Falls. 8 00
Spencer.......... 12 00
Duboi............ 11.00
Marke Lake. 9.00
Idaho Fa[-]ls.... 8.50
Blackfoot...... 7.40
Ross Fork...... 7.25
Pocatello....... 7.00
McCammon... 5.7[-]
Downey........ 5.00
Oxford............ 4.25
	Stateline—
Cannon......... 4.00
Preston......... 4.25
Franklin........ 4.[-]5
	Utah—
Richmond...... 4.25
Smithfield...... 4.10
Logan.......... 3.80
Mendon......... 3 55
Cache Junct'n 3.25
Collinston...... 2.75
Dewey............ 2.50
Honeyville..... 2.25
Brigham......... 2 00
Willard.......... 1.75
Hot Springs... 1.50
Harrisville...... 1 50
	Wyoming—
Granger......... 9.60
Opal............... 9.60
Diamondville. 9.50
Ham's Fork... 9.25
Fossil............ 9.00

Cokeville........ $8.75
	Idaho—
Mon pelier.... 7.75
Soda Springs.. 7.00
B[-]ncroft......... 7.00
	Utah—
Ogden............ 1.50
Hooper......... 1.20
Syraccuse Junc 1.10
La[-]ton............ 75
K[-]y[-]ville...... 60
Farmington... 50
Centerville..... 35
Woods Cross. 25
Murray......... 25
Junction...... 35
Sandy............ 50
Draper........... 70
Lehi Junc...... 1.20
Lehi............... 1.25
Amer'n Fork.. 1.35
Pleas'n Grove 1.50
Lake View... 1.70
Provo............ 1.90
Springville.... 2.10
Spanish Fork. 2.25
Benjamin...... 2.25
Payson........... 2.35
Santaquin..... 2.35
Mona............ 2.50
Nephi............ 3.00
Juab............... 3.25
Leamington... 3.90
Oasis............ 4.50
Clear Lake...... 4.75
Black Rock... 5.50
Smith's Ranch 6.00
Milford......... 6.00
Fri co............ 6.70
Eureka......... 3.25
I[--]nton......... 3.25
Silver City... 3.25
Mammoth...... 3.25
Dorem[-]s....... 3.00
Rush Valley... 2.50
Fairfield......... 2.25
Cedar Fort..... 1.95
Ter[---]...... 1 50
Tooele............ 1.25
Erda............. 1.10
Halfw'y House .95
Lake Poin..... .80
Garfield......... .75
Sal[-]air Junc. .60
Chambers....... .50

SELLING DATES AND LIMIT.
	From Ogden, Nephi, Terminu[-]. Eure-
ka and all intermediate points, October
2nd to 6th, inclusive, limit October 12 h.
From Harrisville, Cannon and intermedi-
ate points, October 2nd [-]o 6th, inclu-
sive, limit October 15 h. From all other
stations, Oc[-]ober 2nd to 5th, inclusive,
limit October 15, 1897.
	For special trian service see bills.

[Column 2]
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, October
11, 1897. Reduction in tuition to ladies
from any branch of the Relief Society.
For further information address Dr.
Margaret G. Roberts, 437 East Second So.
Tel. 236 rings, short-long-short.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP'S SCHOOL.
	The Winter session of DR. ELLIS
R. SHIPP'S School in Obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October 11th,
1897, at her residence, 75 Center
street, with greatly improved facili-
ties for instruction in this important
study. For full particulars please
address ELLIS R. SHIPP.

[Emblematic shield reading with the following printed on it]
UNION
PACIFIC
THE
OVERLAND
ROUTE
WORLD'S PiCTORIAL LINE

[printed to the right of the shield]
The
People's
Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt. L[-]ke City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited’’ for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City. Denver and Park City......... 7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail," for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver........................... 6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,’’ from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City.......... 3:10 p.m.
"The Fast Mail,” f[-]om Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver.................... 0 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telepho[-]e No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Libra[-]y, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
S. H. H. CLARK,
OLIVER W. MINK,
E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
JOHN W. DOANE,
FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
Receivers.
E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
H. M. CLAY, Gene[-]al Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 26.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1897.	NO 10.


CONTENTS:
	National Council. Madame M[-]untford. Politic-
al Science Study. A Ringing Address. Ladies’
Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina H. Bull Sec. U.
W. P. C.—Orielle Curtis Sec. R. S. and P. A.
Reports. Notes and News. Utah Charity Kinder-
garten.
	EDITORIAL:—Municipal Affairs Miss Be[-]l
Kearney. Birthday Entertainment
	POETRY:—The Woman Preacher—Ellis R[-]
Shipp. A Rose to the Living—Selected. A Song
of Autumn—James Buckham. Under a Hedge—
Di[-]bhus.


[Column 1]
THE WOMAN PREACHER.

UPON a time, not long remote,
Some ministers of good repute,
Set out to make a pilgrimage—
And rest their brains so wise and sage,
To gain a respite from their cares,
And surcease from their many prayers,
To see the world, on pleasure bent,
They journeyed to the Orient.

But here, we should not fail to state
This little party numbered eight
Seven reverend gentlemen,
And one fair reverend woman.
They traveled far o’er sea and land,
O’er briny waves, and desert sand,
But when they reached Genoa’s shore
They paused, its beauties to scan o’er.

These reverend sires with one accord,
Paid tribute to fair Anna’s Lord. 
And Anna too, their homage shared—
Though each one secretly declared
His great desire to play a joke
On one who ne’er had borne man’s yoke.
Thus while on fair Genoa's soil,
They sought the hours to beguile.

It chanced that while they lingered here,
Some other vessels too were near—
The Gospel-ships at anchor lay,
Whose captain came for them to pray,
Give a text and friendly greeting,
And with the sailors hold a meeting.
So fa'e, it seems, with fertile plan,
Is ready e’er to help vain man.

At this time the rev’rend woman
Was ashore on duties human—
To soothe the sick, relieve the poor,
Drive cold and want from many a door,
And wi h a woman’s sympathy
Let their burdened spirits free,
While her companions sought to frame
Some lofty scheme to aid the same.

Now this request the captain made
Just helped the plans they oft had laid,
And there at once they did determine
To have the woman give the sermon;
That when before them she stood dumb,
They'd to her rescue bravely come,
And show the vast superior lore
Of manly brains, as ne’er before.

So when the captain sought their aid
In things divine they warmly said:
“One of our number is away,
One, who most has power to pray
For sinners on the downward road,
And lead them to that blest abode.
So we your message will convey
To our good friend. Ahem—Good day.”

[Column 2]
Then when the reverend Anna came,
With inward mirth and sportive game,
They told her, how she more than all,
Was honored by the captain’s call. 
Though woman-like, and modest too,
She could not quite all pride subdue,
Yet with profound and solemn thought,
Her Father’s aid in prayer she sought.

The morning dawned, serene and fair,
Seraphic incense filled the air,
The ocean, wi e in placid rest,
With scarce a ripple on its breast.
A sacred hush enrapt the ear[-]h,
Where holy thoughts must fain have birth.
The Gospel-ships at anchor lay,
In calm, and peace, t at Sabbath day.

With expectation on each face
The crew came in with measured pace,
Arranged themselves in groups sedate,
But long they did no have to wait;
For soon the preacher was brought forth—
A woman too! of grace and worth.
The captain stared, confused and grieved,
To find himself so much deceived.
A muttering murmur passed around,
And sneers on every face were found,
Save those reverend gen[-]lemen,
All were filled with discontent.

Down deep within her woman’s soul
A troubled wave began to roll
Yet firm, and brave, and strong, and true,
An inspiration rolled there too.
Deep resolves to stand undaunted,
Turn the tide on those who vaunted.
One moment quietly she stood
And breathed a fervent prayer to God,

Then on the air, so rich and full
Her voice rang out, to thrill each soul,
Her words so gentle, yet so strong,
Burst on their ears like sweetest song.
A magic spell seemed on them wrought
Their minds by retrospection caught.
Bore each one back to love and home,
Ere they had ever thought to roam.

Then with divinest eloquence—
Pure truth her aim, and sure defence;
With subtle power, step by step,
She sought to reach the inmost depth
Of fountains, long since still and dry;
And lift each heart, to God on high;
Unclasp the seal of memories vault,
That each might see his gravest fault.

She led them back to father’s side,
When they, his greatest joy and pride,
Had looked on him in fiilal love,
As next to Father up above.
She bade them think in reverent mood
Of one, who taught them first of God,
When in their childhood, pure and free,
They learned to pray at mother’s knee.

And how those parents, fond and true,
Ere they had bade that last adieu,
Had begged, and prayed them earnestly,
To keep themselves from evil free.
Fond brothers too, do not forget
Nor how the sister’s eyes are wet
With yearning tears, and hopes and love,
For him who thought it best to rove.

[Column 3]
She bade them think of sweethearts fair,
Waiting still in love and prayer,
Whose pligh ed troths were freely given,
As the gentle dews of Heaven.
The faithful wife, in care and grief,
Wh se dreadful fears find no relief,
In secret tears—to all unknown—
E’er wa ting for her love’s return,

She pleads with them in strong appeal,
To mend their ways with ardent zeal,
That on that blest home coming time,
Pure hearts and true, and lives sublime
Will cheer and bless the waiting ones,
And for their grief bring full returns;
So Father’s approbating smile
Will beam, and cheer all hearts the while.
Near the front in foremost row
An old man sat, with head bent low,
And still upon his sunbrowned face,
She yet, no softening lines could trace—
To right or left he did not turn,
Unmoved, defiant, cold and stern,
While all around emotion woke,
Strong hearts were t[-]uched and deep sobs
	broke.

She said perchance some seaman here,
May children have who love you dear,
Whose last embrace you feel e’en yet;
And see those eyes so sad and wet.
Those lisping words you still may hear,
While loving lips to yours draw near,
So real and true it all doth seem,
You cannot think it is a dream!

Now while you see this vision bright,
Made brighter by diviner light—
Resolve to make it real and true,
And nobler, holi r paths pursue,
That all this earthly b iss and love,
Be sanctified by God above.
From sin and sorrow thus made free,
And live throughout eternity.

With hands, and heart, and softening eye
Raised to the Fath[-]r’s throne on high,
In solemn prayer the soft words fall,
A benediction on them all
Lower and lower fell her tones
Till lost a length ’mid sobs and moans,
All hearts were touched the old man too
Wept and pray d he might prove true.

The crew the captain e’en the guests,
Closed round their pleasure to express,
Pressed her h nds, and al declared,
So good a speech they ne’er had heard
And there, and [-]hen, these gen[-]lemen,
Told all, how they had conquered been,
And pardon craved for ill designs,
Along such tender, sacred lines.
				ELLIS R. SHIPP.


THOMAS STANFORD, of Australia has
given $300,000 to build a library for the
University founded in California by his
brother, the late Leland Stanford.
	THE convention in Iowa now in progress
will be completed by the middle of October,
at which time the whole troupe of workers 
will take up their line of march toward
South Dakota. By that date each one of
the ninety-nine counties in Iowa will have
held its two days’ convention.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
NATIONAL COUNCIL
OF WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES.
	[Submittad for the approval of the
National Organizations and the Local
Councils affiliated with the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States.]
	Preliminary Program for the Annual Ex-
ecutive Session of the National Council of
the Women of the United States, October
25, 26, 27 and 28, 1897, at Nashville,
Tennessee, under the auspices of the Wo-
man’s Department of the Tennessee Cen-
tennial and International Exposition.
Monday, October 25, 9:30 a. m. Meeting
of the Executive (open only to Officers of
the National Council, Presidents and Dele-
gates of the National Organization and of
Local Councils affiliated with the National
Councils, members of the Cabinet and
Patrons.)
	Programme for Business Meeting, October
25, 9:30 a. m. 5 minutes: Roll call of
Association and Local Councils affiliated
with the National Council. 5 minutes:
Minutes of last Executive Session read by
the Recording Secretary. 5 minutes:
Annual financial statement by the Treasur-
er. Discussion upon the following ques-
tions: (1) Shall the next Triennial, which
is to be convened in 1899, sit in two houses?
(2) Upon what basis of representation may
Councils embracing two or more states be
admitted into the National Council? (3)
Shall the National Council employ an
organizer for constant work in the field in
organizing Local Councils? (4) shall a
Committee of Information be formed whose-
function it shall be to correspond with the
officers of the National Association not yet
affiliated with the Council, to the end that
an opportunity maybe secured to communi-
cate information respecting the Council to
such associations?
	Monday, October 25, 3 p. m. Formal
Opening of the Council. 5 minutes: Silent
prayer. 5 minutes: Address of Welcome
by the Chairman of the Convocation Com-
mittee, Margaret J. Weakley. 5 minutes:
Response by the Vice-President at Large of
the Council, Rev. Anna H. Shaw. 5
minutes: Announcement of Local arrange-
ments made by Convocation Committee of
the Woman’s Department of the Tennessee
Centennial and International Exposition.
GENERAL SUBJECT.
	The Work of Local Councils. Ten
minute reports from each of the following
Local Councils represented by President or
Delegate: Portland, Maine; Akron, Ohio;
Indianapolis, Indiana; Providence, Rhode
Island; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Quincy,
Illinois; Memphis, Tennessee; Cleveland,
Ohio; Maryville, Tennessee; Bloomington,
Indiana and all other Local Councils affili-
ated with the National Council.
	Address, 30 minutes: How may Local
Councils more efficiently co-operate with
Municipal Governments? Discussion on
the address. Participants limited to five
minutes each.
RECEPTION MONDAY EVENING.
	Tuesday, October 26, 9:30 a. m. Ten
minute reports from such of the following
National organizations affiliated with the
Council as are represented by a President or
Delegate: National Christian League for
the Promotion of Social Purity. National
Free Baptist Woman’s Missionary Society.
The Florence Crittenden Mission. Ameri-
can Anti-Vivisection Society. The Nation-

[Column 2]
al Council of Jewish Women. National
Woman’s Christian Temperance Union.
Woman's Foreign Mission Union of Friends.
	Address, 30 minutes: Opportunity and
Obligation of the National Council to Pro-
mote the Growth of Religious Unity. Dis-
cussion of address: Participants limited to
five minutes each. Tuesday, October 26,
3 p. m. Ten minute reports from such of
the following National organizations as are
represented by a President or Delegate:
Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement
Association. Illinois Industrial School for
Girls (National Character) Wimodaughsis.
National Woman’s Relief Society. Nation-
al Association of Women Stenographers.
Ladies of the Maccabees.10 minutes:
Special report of Delegate to the Annual
Session of the National Council of Women
of Canada, held at Halifax in June.
	Address, 30 minutes: Improved Dress,
Annie White Johnson, chairman of the
committee on dress, followed by illustrated
exhibit in charge of Madame Manvell.
	Tuesday, Oct. 26, 8 p. m. Ten minute
reports from the following organizations
represented by a President or a Delegate:
National American Woman Suffrage
Association. Woman’s Republican Asso-
ciation of the United States. National
Association of Loyal Women of American
Liberty. Woman’s Relief Corps of the
Grand Army of the Republic.
	Address, 30 minutes: The Relation of
the National Council to National Govern-
mental Affairs.
	Address, 30 minutes: The National
Council as an Agent in Promoting National
Patriotism. Report of the Conference of
the International Council held in London
in July.
	Address, 30 minutes: The Relation of
the International Council to International
Governmental Affairs. Wednesday, Oct-
ober 27, 9:30 a. m. Ten minute statements
by each member of the Cabinet present.
Subject: Her own Conception of the Sig-
nificance and Scope of the Work belonging
to her own Portfolio.
	Address, 30 minutes: How may Patrons
be Rendered Helpful in the Diffusion of
the Council Idea? Discussion by Patrons
present. Participants limited to five
minutes each. 10 minutes: Report of the
Universal Peace Union.
	Address, 30 minutes: The Council as an
Agent in promoting Peace and Arbitration.
Discussion. Participants limited to five
minutes each.
	N. B.—Wednesday afternoon free for the
enjoyment of courtesies which the Commit-
tee on Convocation desire to extend.
	Wednesday Evening. Reception given
by the officers of the National Council of
Women.
	Thursday Morning, October 28. Meet-
ing of the Executive. (Open only to
officers of the National Council, Presidents
and Delegates of National Organizations
belonging to the National Council, Presi-
dents and Delegates of Local Councils
affiliated with the National Council, mem-
bers of the Cabinet and Patrons.)
	N. B.—This session will be held at the
Maxwell House, which will be the head-
quarters of the Council during the Nash-
ville Convention.
	Special Business: Action upon the
Revised Constitution. Presentation and
discussion of the reports of Special and
Standing Committees.

[Column 3]
GENERAL INFORMATION.
	For ladies not wishing to stop at the
Maxwell House, comfortable quarters can
be secured at satisfactory rates in private
boarding-houses. Information upon this
subject is volunteered by the Chairman of
the Convocation Committee, Mrs. Margar-
et J. Weakley, whose address is 117 North
Summer Street, Nashville, Tenn.
	The rates made by the railroads to and
from Nashville during the Exposition are
much lower than the rates obtained by con-  
ventions. This advantage is, of course,
available to all persons attending the
Executive Session of the National Council.
	The importance of this Executive Ses-
sion can hardly be over estimated, and it
becomes the duty of each National Organ-
ization and Local Council connected with
the National Council to take its share in
making the session worthy of the Council
and of the distinguished auspices under
which this session will be held. This
Executive Session affords the Council the
opportunity to present what is popularly
known as the “Council Idea,’’ in a section
of the country not yet reached by it; and
before audiences that will be representative
of all that is best, particularly in the South-
ern States. It also gives every member of
the Council an opportunity to present its
particular work to an audience which will
carry a knowledge of it, and the inspira-
tion to be derived from it, to all parts of
the great and growing South. 
	This preliminary programme is sent out
in the hope that the important subjects pro-
posed for discussion may be considered by
Local Councils and, as far as possible, by
members of the official board of National
organizations before the session is convened.
	N. B.—Members of the Official Boards
are asked to consider these matters, because
it will not be possible to bring them before
their respective organizations.  
	For all information concerning the local
arrangements at Nashville, inquiries may
be addressed to Mrs. Margaret J. Weakley,
117 North Summer Street, Nashville, Tenn.
	Members of the Cabinet, Patrons of the
National Council and Local Councils are
requested to address any inquiries or sug-
gestions respecting the programme to Mrs. 
May Wright Sewall, whose address is
given below.
	All other persons interested in the Nash-
ville meeting are requested to address
inquiries and suggestions to the Chairman
of the Committee, Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
Vice-President at Large of the National
Council of Women, and Chairman of the
Programme Committee of the Nashville
Meeting, Wianno, Cape Cod, Mass.
	Rachel Foster Avery, Member of the
Cabinet. Hannah J. Solomon, President
of the National Council of Jewish Women.
Annie White Johnson Chairman of Com-
mittee on Dress. May Wright Sewall,
Member of Cabinet, 633 (new) North Penn-
sylvania Street, Indianapolis, Indiana.


THE three leading newspapers of Nash-
ville employ women reporters. Miss Walk-
er represents the Sun, Mrs. Duncan the
American and Miss Porterfield the Banner.
All are able and do credit to their calling.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A ROSE TO THE LIVING.

A ROSE to the living is more 
	Than sumptuous wreaths to the dead:
In filling love’s infinite store,
A rose to the living is more—
If graciously given before
	The hungering spirit is fled— 
A rose to the living is more 
	Than sumptuous wreaths to the dead.
				SELECTED.


A SONG OF AUTUMN.

Ho for the bending sheaves,
Ho for the crimson leaves 
	Flaming in splendor!
Season of ripened gold,
Plenty in crib and fold,
Skies with depths untold,
	Liquid and tender.
Far. like the smile of God,
See how the golden-rod
	Ripples and tosses!
Yonder a crimson vine
Trails from a bearded pine,
Thin as a thread of wine 
	Staining the mosses.
Bright ’neath the morning blue
Sparkles the frosted dew,
	Gem-like and starry.
Hark how the partridge cock
Pipes to the scattered flock, 
Mindful how swift the hawk
	Darts on his quarry!
Autumn is here again—
Banners on hill and plain 
	Blazing and flying.
Hail to the amber morn, 
Hail to the heaped up corn,
Hail to the hunter's horn,
	Swelling and dying!
				JAMES BUCKHAM.


UNDER A HEDGE.

A FLORIST a sweet little blossom espied,
Which bloomed like its Ancestors by the road side,
Its fragrance was simple, its colors were few,
But the blossom looked fair in the spot
Where it grew. Under a Hedge. 

The Florist beheld it and cried “I’ll enchant
The Botanical world with this sweet little plant.
Its leaves shall be sheltered and carefully nursed,
It shall charm all the world tho’ I met with it first
			Under a Hedge.”

He carried it home to his hot-house with care 
And said “Tho’ the rarest exotics are there
My little pet plant when I’ve nourished its stem
In tints and in fragrance shall imitate them
And none shall suspect from the road side it
	came.
Rodum Sidus I’ll call it, a beautiful name,
And when Botanists look through their glasses to
	view
Its beauties they’ll never suspect that it grew
			Under a Hedge.”

The little pet plant when it shook off the dust
Of its own native ditch soon began to grow pert
And tossed its small head, for perceiving that none
But exotics were round it, it thought itself one
And forgot that it grew, Under a Hedge.

As a wild flower all would have owned it was
	fair,
And praised it though gaudier blossoms were
	there,
But when it assumes the hot-house airs we see
	through
The forced tints of its leaves and suspect that it
	grew
			Under a Hedge


In the by-ways of life oh how many there are, 
Who being born under a fortunate star, 
Assisted by beauty or talent grow rich, 
To bloom in a hot-house instead of a ditch.
And whilst they disdain not their own simple
	stem,
The honor they grasp may gain honor from them
But when like the pet plant such people grow
	pert, 
We soon trace them to their original birth
				Under a Hedge
						DILBHUS.


[Column 1]
MADAME MOUNTFORD.

WHAT THE CALIFORNIA PAPERS SAY.
	THAT Madame Mountford is a remark-
ably brilliant woman, and that she is a
great orator and actress, goes without say-
ing to all who were fortunate enough to
have heard her series of lectures at the
Yosemite theater last week, and that she is
withal a true, noble and Christian woman.
Her heart is in the work she has created
and although she has wonderful talents and
would make one of the greatest actresses
the world has known—would, in fact,
succeed in almost any intellectual pursuit—
she feels that this is her mission, and in
doing it she is carrying out the life-work of
her father and of a long line of Christian
ancestors. Her noble aim is to awaken
an interest in the Bibie and by teachings
and explanations with living pictures and
scenes make the word of God so plain, so
simple and so beautiful that every child
will understand and be benefited by it.
We usually expect when we see so large a
woman as Madame Mountford to find in
her a lack of gentleness and much that is
masculine. Not so the Madame. A little
chat with her in her room dispels at
once this illusion and convinces the most
incredulous that she is all gentleness, refine-
ment and altogether charming. Her voice
is low and sweet and her suave and cour-
teous manners are those of an Oriental of
noble blood. She has lectured for fourteen
years, most of the time in foreign lands,
and it is said that her name has become
a familiar household word throughout all
England. She has visited America severel
times and has lectured in most of the large
cities in the East. This is, however, her
first trip to the coast. She went to Salt
Lake City under engagement of the Boston
Concert and Lecture Bereau. Her season
with them having expired she came to Cali-
fornia- not on a lecturing tour, but simply
to see the country of which she had heard
so much. During the Woman’s Congress
in San Francisco she was persuaded to
give a series of lectures and having met
with unqualified success there and here she
has concluded to visit all the larger cities
in the State, and will lecture in them be-
ginning this week in Sacramento. Dr.
Ellis will act as her agent while in this
State. To one comfortably seated in the
audience and gazing upon scene after scene
of Oriental splendor, made so intensly
interesting and beautiful by this gifted wo-
man, but little idea can be formed of the
vast amount of work that goes on behind
the scenes. After having closed, as she
thought, her lecturing tour for the season
she sent her four trained assistants back to
England and came here with only her
maid and valet. As it requires from four-
teen to twenty men, women and children to
assist her in illustrating her lectures, it is

[Column 2]
no easy matter to rehearse and train such a
large number for these lectures. I was an
interested spectator behind the scenes and
watched her as she labored unceasingly
with them up to the last moment before the
curtain rose. Although her maid and valet
rendered some assistance in converting her
company into priests, scribes, shepherds,
Samaritans, Bedouins etc., yet all of the
draping of veils and sashes, sorting out and
arranging of robes, the winding of yards
and yards of material which she rolls into
ropes and puts around and around the
heads in turban fashion, the putting on of
jewels, necklaces and armlets and a thou-
sand and one other details are all done by
the artistic and graceful touch of the
Madame herself. So by the time all receive
the last touch, which is to give the rosy
tint to the cheeks and lips and the dark
shade to the eyebrows and eyes, any other
woman would have been too exhausted to
have gone upon the stage at all, much less
to have held the undivided attention of a
large audience for three hours, but not so
Madame Mountford. Her power of endur-
ance seemed to be equal to her intellect.
When she lectures in the evening she eats
nothing after her noonday meal until her
lecture is over. If she is to give a matinee
no food or nourishment of any kind is taken
after her early breakfast until the matinee
is over, and then very little if she is to
lecture on the same evening. The Madame
has expended $25,000 on the robes,
draperies and Oriental paraphernalia which
she carries with her. They are of heavy
linen, fine camels-hair and silks, most of
which are heavily embroidered and inter-
woven with gold, all done by the hands of
the Oriental women of her country.


POLITICAL SCIENCE STUDY.

	IN the third year’s work of its course of
study in Political Science, the National
American Woman Suffrage Association in-
vites its constituency and its friends, to
unite in earnest investigation and discus-
sion of the more prominent social problems
which are demanding public attention at
this time. It is itself a non-partisan reform
body, representing only one proposed
change. In no sense does it espouse any of
the solutions proposed for the social prob-
lems to which it invites attention. Its only
object in inaugurating the course of study is
to disseminate political information, and its
only hope is. that there shall develop, on
the part of its students and their friends, a
truer reform spirit, a broader tolerance, a
warmer hospitality to new ideas, and a
clearer sense of the duty each individual
owes to the future.
	The Announcement contains a list of
books required for the year, and complete
directions for their use. It may be obtained
free by addressing Carrie Chapman Catt,
107 World’s Building, N. Y.


A RULE of the Postoffice Department for-
bids publications to be sent to persons in
lieu of dues paid to an organization. For
this reason the National Suffrage Bulletin
can no longer be sent to the dollar members
of the National Association. The Septem-
ber number will go to all as usual, but they
will be marked “sample copies,” and any
member who wishes to continue the Bulle-
tin must send the subscription price, 25
cents.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 15, 1897.


[Column 1]
MUNICIPAL AFFAIRS.

	IF to give expression to such sublime
sentiments as those uttered by President
Woodruff at the late Conference be deemed
treason, then has the world gone backward
instead of forward. If to declare honesty
is before partisanship is wrong, then have
we indeed come upon perilous times, that
must try honest men's souls to the utter-
most. Surely women have not yet become
so wedded to parties that they must vote
with a certain party, whether their own
conscience will approve or not. If the wo-
men of this city will heed the signs of the
times, and notice how vice and corruption
have grown and flourished in this fair land
within the last few years, there need be no
fear of misrule, for if all honorable upright
men, vote for men of principle and strict
integrity and the great majority of women
join with them in the struggle for a change
in city government, there will be no cause
for fear of being outdone by any party poli-
ticians, who are after the spoils of office.
	The words of wise and good men like
President Woodruff should be heeded in
this campaign, and wisdom and prudence
should be exercised in urging upon those
who are not informed of the conditions of
the city government, that they may know
of the traps and snares laid for the unsuspect-
ing and unwary. It is not the time for
silence but the people should be fearless and
willing to speak the truth and stand for the
right. This spirit of resistance against
those who oppress the taxpayer and the
laborer is not confined to Salt Lake City
nor to Utah, although if it were the cause
is just, but in several large cities of the
East, the non partisan theory has been put
in active operation.
	In one of the leading magazines of the
day the writer upon this subject speaking
from experience says: “With me associ-
ated as treasurer of the board was Mr.
Avery E. Andrews. He was a Democrat,
I a Republican, and there were questions of
of national politics on which we disagreed
widely; but such questions could not enter
into the administration of the New York
police if that administration was to be both
honest and efficient, and as a matter of fact,
during my two years service Mr. Andrews
and I worked in absolute harmony on every
important question of policy which arose.
The prevention of blackmail and corruption,
the suppression of crime and violence, the
safe guarding of life and property, securing
honest elections and rewarding efficient and 

[Column 2]
punishing inefficient police service, are not
and cannot be properly made questions of
party difference. In other words such a
body as the New York police force can be
wisely and properly administered only up-
on a non-partisan basis, and both Mr. 
Andrews and myself were quite incapable
of managing it on any other.
	“Certain of the difficulties we had to face
were merely those which confronted the en-
tire administration in its management of the
municipality. Many worthy people expect-
ed that this reform administration would
make an absolute revolution, not merely in
the government but in the minds of the
citizens as a whole; and felt vaguely that
they had been cheated because there was
not an immediate changing of every bad
influence in social life.
	“In administering the police force we
found, as might be expected, that there was no
need of genius, nor indeed of any very un-
usual qualities. What was required was
the exercise of the plain ordinary virtues,
of a rather commonplace type, which all
good citizens should be expected to possess.
Common sense, common honesty, courage,
energy, resolution, readiness to learn, and a
desire to be as pleasant with everybody as
was compatible with a strict performance
of duty: these were the qualities most call-
ed for.
	“Our methods for restoring order and
discipline were simple, and hardly less so
were our methods for securing efficiency.
	“It was not at all difficult to protect
decent people in their rights, and this re-
sult was effected at once. It was the en-
forcement of the liquor law which caused
most excitement.”
	On this subject the writer has much to
say and closes it after several columns by
saying: “The result of our labors
was of value to the city, for we gave the
citizens better protection than they had
ever before received, and at the same time
root out the corruption which was eating
away civic morality. We were attacked
with the most bitter animosity by many
sensational newspapers and every politician
of the baser sort, not because of our short-
comings, but because of what we did that
was good. We enforced the laws as they
were on the statute books, we broke up
blackmail, we kept down the spirit of dis-
order and suppressed rascality, and we ad-
ministered the force with an eye single to
the welfare of the city. In doing this we
encountered, as we had expected, venom-
ous opposition of all men to whose interest
it was that corruption should continue, or
who were of such dull morality that they
were not willing to see honesty triumph at
the cost of strife.”
	“We were obliged to treat all questions that
arise purely on their merits, without refer-
ence to the desires of the politician. We
went into this course with our eyes open,
for we knew the trouble it would cause us
personally, and what was far more import-
ant, the way in which our efforts for re-
form would consequently be hampered.
However, there was no alternative but to
abide the result. We had counted the cost
before we adopted our plan, and we follow-
ed it resolutely to the end.”
	Some of the best women in New York
City came forward in the movement made
in 1894 spoken of here, and lent their sup- 
port in various ways, though they had not
the ballot as women have in Utah. If
effective work can be done without the fran-

[Column 3]
chise, think how much more weight women
can have who hold the voting power. It
seems quite essential that the women of this
city at the present time should inform
themselves concerning this important ques-
tion of non-partisanship in municipal affairs
and vote understandingly, which is easy
enough to do if one will take a little time to
study the questions. It is simply a duty
which the women of this city owe to them-
selves and the community of which they
form a part, to stand resolutely and deter-
mindly for good government by a faithful
administration of the laws upon the statute
books. Surely no woman with any pro-
nounced ideas of honesty, economy and
morality would wish to see the present
conditions continue. A radical change
must come, and the only course to pursue
to avoid strife and trouble, is to declare for a
non-partisan administration of municipal
affairs.


MISS BELLE KEARNEY.

	MISS BELLE KEARNEY, a celebrated
teacher and lecturer and a great favorite
with the public wherever she has spoken
both in America and across the ocean,
recently visited Salt Lake City and spoke
in the large Tabernacle, Saturday evening,
Oct. 2. Her lecture was entitled “Why
Are The Wheels Clogged?’’and here as else-
where, she was received with great favor.
Miss Kearney is traveling under the auspices
of the Woman’s Christian Temperance
Union. Miss Frances E. Willard speaks of
her eloquence and devotion to the cause in
the highest terms of praise. Miss Kearney
came to Utah partly to attend a Conven-
tion of the W. C. T. U. held here at that
time, and she made several speeches at the
Convention that were highly complimented.
She is a young Southerner from Mississippi
with the pleasing Southern accent and an
easy, graceful manner.
	President Angus M. Cannon presided
during the evening in the Tabernacle, and
introduced Miss Kearney, and Elder A. E.
Miner offered prayer. The Committee had
succeeding in securing some of the best
musical talent in the city for a musical pro-
gram. Prof. J. J. McLellan rendered in
his inimitable style, with great feeling and
expression the “Ave Marie” from Mascag-
nis’ opera Cavelleira Rusticana, and Mrs.
Lizzie Thomas Edwards sang “Just As I
Am” by Sudds, with intense feeling, and
her high notes rang out clear and distinct,
which is always a pleasing feature in vocal
music. Prof. Heber S. Goddard sang an
Aria by Donizetti, his magnificent voice
filling the large building with rich vocal
tones, awakening tender and sublime emo-
tions. A sacred thing indeed is the gift of
song, and accompanied by such music as
Prof. McLellan is capable of rendering,
and in a building that is of itself lofty and
inspiring to the soul, one cannot help feel-
ing it must be a joy to give so much pleas-
ure to others.
	Miss Kearney is a very fluent and origin-
al speaker, she uses no notes, nor is she in
any sense sensational. Her voice is far-
reaching and full of pathos, and her tones
are never monotonous. She is a young wo-
man of strong character and a just desire to
do good, she is giving her talents and heart
to this missionary work.
	A reception was tendered Miss Kearney
at the residence of Mrs. Annie T. Hyde


where those who were anxious to meet her
socially might have the opportunity. Mrs.
Hyde’s handsome parlors were artistically
decorated with beautiful autumn leaves and
boughs, and presented an almost fairy-like
appearance, and with the cordial welcome
of the pleasing hostess and her sweet man-
nered and amiable daughters, the afternoon
was very enjoyable, even though the storm
kept many of the ladies from calling.
About thirty, however, availed themselves
of the privilege of meeting and chatting for
a few moments with Miss Kearney, who is
a delightful conversationalist in a social
way, as well as a wonderful public speaker.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY ENTERTAINMENT.

	THE Central Board of the Primary Asso-
ciations, Mrs. Louie B. Felt president,
planned a very excellent entertainment in
honor of Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers to be held
in the Fourteenth ward Assembly Hall on
the evening of her birthday, October 4, in
this city. Preparations had been going on
for some time previous and the affair proved
a perfect success.
	Mrs. Rogers is known throughout Zion as
the originator of the Primary Associations,
which have been such a blessing and bene-
fit not only to the children, but to many of
the parents; whatever is a spiritual or a
moral uplifting is a blessing to the world,
and this Association reaches to the little
ones, or should do, in each ward in every
Stake of Zion.
	The hall was beautifully and tastefully
decorated in every available place with
flowers and Autumn leaves and boughs
which gave a charming effect, and the
platform and tables looked very attractive.
Mrs. Felt, her counselor, Mrs. Lillie T.
Freeze and her secretary, Miss May Ander-
son and others associated with them, receiv-
ed the guests and managed the program in
a very creditable manner. Where there
were so many things that deserved men-
tion it is rather difficult to select, but the
delightful paper prepared by Mrs. Lillie T.
Freeze and read by Mrs. Maggie Bassett
certainly should be favorably noticed. It
was a history of the work in brief giving
honor where honor was due, and was writ-
ten in a very pleasing style and read in a
way that all could appreciate. The paper
will, of course, be published and preserved
on record. Mrs. Lucy A. Clark had written
a sweet song which was sung during the
evening and was one of the pleasing fea-
tures of the entertainment.
	Mrs. Rogers, the recipient of the honors,
was a picture and a study. It was pleasant
to look at her as she partly reclined in her 
easy chair (for she came from a sick bed to
be present,) she was most becomingly attir- 
ed and her face always serene in repose was
an index to the soul within, pure and spirit-
ual. She received and responded to the
congratulations showered upon her with
that ease of manner characteristic of the
Spencers. That she was surprised when
she learned all that had been done was ap-
parent, yet there was no outburst, nor
special demonstration.
	The children who took part in the pro-
gram (and it would not have been complete
without children) rendered their exercises
in a very satisfactory and delightful way,
and the best of selections had been made.
	Mrs. Rogers had for some time been de-
sirous of publishing her life and also the
origin, development and progress of the

[Column 2]
Primary Associations, and had collected to-
gether the material and written the manu-
script, and the Central Board, under the
management of its president, Mrs Felt,
have raised the means to secure the pub-
lication desired. Elder Joseph Felt an-
nounced the fact to the audience by reading
a letter from the publishers, Geo. Q. Can-
non Sons and Co. This is the most fitting
tribute that could be bestowed by the Asso-
ciation upon one whose inspired thought
brought about such spiritual growth in the
little ones, the children of the Saints.
	Appropriate remarks were made, songs
were rendered and gifts of lovely flowers
were given and delicious refreshments were
served by beautiful young girls, and Presi-
dent Felt and her associates must have
been highly gratified by the good spirit and
feeling that was manifest in all that was
said and done.


[Column 1]
A RINGING ADDDRSS.

To the People of Salt Lake City:
	EVERY taxpayer is an investor, every
resident a shareholder in the government of
his city. All are directly interested in its
prosperity and advancement. Shortsighted
and selfish is he who makes any other in-
terest paramount to the public welfare;
desperate is the condition of any municipal-
ity where cliques or rings or incompetence
or partisanship control in official affairs,
and business methods become subordinate
to personal or political advancement. In-
dustry languishes, extravagance runs riot,
patriotism is repressed, the honest pride of
citizens dwindles and the people suffer.
	We hold it to be necessary to state, re-
gretfully yet plainly, certain facts with
reference to the condition of public affairs in
Salt Lake City. It is better to tell the truth
now, even at the cost of advertising our
misfortunes, than by concealment and in-
activity to rush swiftly to further sufferings.
	Heavy debts, increase of offices, large
salaries and consequent excessive taxation
have made the burdens upon the people un-
bearable. In 1890 the aggregate of taxa-
tion in Salt Lake City was eleven mills; in
1897 it is twenty seven and one half mills.
Even this enormous figure will not cover
current expenses at their present volume;
and when to this is added that the valua-
tion on which the assessment is made is in
many instances greater than the property
is worth, there will be hone to dispute that
Salt Lake City bears a burden heavier than
almost any city in the land. Depreciation
in values since 1890 has gone hand in hand
with increase in expenses; the ease with
which public money has been expended is
only to be compared with the difficulty the
people have had in supplying it. All things
considered, the statement is fairly suscepti-
ble of proof that taxes have increased more
than two hundred per cent during the seven
years, while the prevailing depression has
many times multiplied the difficulties of the
taxpayer. The load thus placed upon the
small wage-earner and home-owner has
been and is grievous to be borne; among
the poorer classes it has in many cases
amounted to virtual confiscation. Public
improvements which under a more conserv-
ative policy might have been prosecuted,
and thus furnished employment to many
people, have had to be postponed. Nor
have the poorer classes been the only suf-
ferers.  Investments have been discouraged

[Column 2]
because property, even where favorably-
situated, is able to return little more than 
the amount of the taxes; capital, naturally
timid, has not looked this way with favor;
and business men generally have felt to the
utmost extent the voracity of the tax mons-
ter which consumed so much of the profits
of their enterprise and toil.
	 For the present year the city’s income
has been partially anticipated and used—a
deficit exists, in the payment of which a
large portion of the current year’s taxes will
be needed that should properly go only for
next year’s necessary expenditures. In
addition to ordinary expenses, fifty thou-
sand dollars per year, commencing with
1898, must be raised as a sinking fund for
the payment of our municipal debt, which,
as a fitting climax to these financial woes,
may be announced as reaching the enorm-
ous sum of over $2,509,000. Besides all
other evils that come from this condition of
public affairs, the city is prevented from
doing necessary work in preserving and
adding to municipal improvements, the con-
sequence of which is that the city’s progress
is stopped.
	This is a gloomy yet a truthful picture.
Happily we believe a remedy and relief can
be had. The situation calls for the highest
patriotism; men of undoubted integrity and
business ability must be called to office, re-
gardless of politics and every other consider-
ation save the capacity for the duties re-
quired.
	We affirm it as a correct principle and
one that should prevail henceforth, that the
government Of this city should be taken per-
manently out of politics and put wholly on
a business basis. Party administration in
municipal affairs should be forever abolish-
ed. This is no experiment, no new doc-
trine. The best governed cities of the Old
World have made it triumphant, the larg-
est and most progressive American cities
are struggling successfully with the same
problem. The hand of the politician will
in the near future be shaken off in all muni-
cipal affairs, party polities in municipal
campaigns will have no place. Salt Lake
City should be in the front in this great re-
form. Its business should be managed by
business men of approved fitness and ex-
perience. Its servants and employees should
be selected for these qualifications and no
others, just as any private or corporate
business, of which the municipality is after
all but the larger counterpart. Every
shareholder has the right to demand this in
the one case as well as in the other; the
highest success and the best results can be
achieved in no other way.
	Therefore, we who have signed our
names to this address, affirm and hold to
these principles and declarations:
	That party politics have no necessary
connection with municipal management:
	That only such persons should be select-
ed for municipal office as are honest, effici-
ent and willing to devote the requisite time
to the public service, having no unneces-
sary deputies or assistants:
	Who will conduct public sffairs on econ-
omical and strictly business principles:
	Who will levy no higher taxes than are
absolutely needed for public expenses:
	Who will reduce salaries to figures con-
sonant with financial conditions, paying
only such compensation for public services
as would be paid in private business:
	Who will treat public trust as an honor
conferred, not an opportunity for privat gain.


We cordially invite the people of this
city of all parties, creeds and opinions to
join with us in this effort to establish an
efficient, economical, non-partisan munici-
pal government. In furtherance of this
effort we place in nomination the following
named persons to fill the various elective
municipal offices, to be voted for at the
coming election, pledging them our sup-
port and appealing to all patriotic citizens
to do likewise:
CITIZENS REFORM TICKET.
	Mayor—JOHN CLARK.
	Recorder—MISS JOAN SPRAGUE. 
	Treasurer—JOSEPH E. CAINE.
	Auditor—GEORGE SWAN.
	Attorney—PARLEY L. WILLIAMS.
	Police Justice—C. A. WOOLLEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
Saturday, Oct. 2, 1897, President M. I. 
Horne presiding. Singing “Come, come
ye Saints.” Prayer by Sister Wright. Sing-
ing “Let those who would be Saints in-
deed.”
	President Horne was very sorry to see so
few here this afternoon but thought it was
owing to the near approach of conference.
Felt there were enough for a blessing and
said this was a trying time for the Saints,
that when we first came here to the valley
that was a trying time but the present time
was the more so. Now was the time to be
tested; now was the time to catechise our-
selves and look into our own hearts. Spoke
of the way we were being tried and perse-
cuted by extremely high taxes. She was
surprised that some of our people would
quarrel and wrangle over politics. We 
should ask our Heavenly Father which
course to take and trust to Him, and to go
to Him humbly and He would hear us.
Spoke in favor of the Non-Partisan ticket, 
said for years she had been in favor of hav-
ing a party that was non-partisan, and said
President D. H. Wells said that the women
were a power in the land. Made some ex-
cellent remarks on this subject. Felt if we
all who were here, though few, testified to
the goodness of God we would be blest.
	The minutes having arrived were read
and accepted.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder felt that President
Horne had dwelt on many precious subjects
especially that of praying for light on this
coming election. Spoke beautifully on
prayer, and said many times the feeling of
prayer would come over us and at the time
we might be busy, still she felt that the
thought ascended up to heaven and was
accepted. Spoke of the efficacy of prayer
in the case of President Woodruff’s daugh-
ter. Said many times our prayers were not
answered but when this was the case the
Lord would show us that it was better for
us not to have what we had prayed for.
Urged the sisters to fully trust Him, and
said nothing that comes to us would harm
us but would turn to blessings on our
heads. Referred to the vision that Joseph
and Hyrum Smith had when they saw their
mother home praying for them, at the time
when they had the cholera.
	Sister M. O. Brown spoke on prayer, said
she loved to pray and thought nothing
brought to her the comfort that prayer did.
Spoke on asking counselfrom those in
authority.

[Column 2]
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said she had
enjoyed the prayer of Sister Wright which
was a sermon in itself, also the remarks of
our President. She had only just got
home from a trip in the country. Gave a
very interesting account of her trip in the
interest of the Relief Society work. Urged
the sisters to be humble and prayerful and
to be true to one another, thought it was
dreadful to have hard feelings towards any
one, but if such were the case it was our
duty to go to the person, or persons, and
make it right. Spoke of the duty of
mothers and urged the sisters to bear their
testimony.
	Sister Wright felt we should let nothing
come along to prevent us from coming to
these meetings. When she was a little
girl her father taught her to pray, and used
to tell her to never let the sun get down on
her anger for she might never see it again.
Spoke of a recent conversation she had
with a lady stranger, felt she had done
some little good in doing so. Rejoiced in
her Temple work and prayed she might
always remain faithful.
	Sister E. Webb felt Sister Wright had
given us very good advice about leaving
our household cares and attending our
meetings. Said many times she had left
dinner dishes as well as the wash tub to
attend her meeting because she felt it was
her duty. Felt sorry that there was so
much strife and division in politics as there
is, and spoke of the happy time we used to
enjoy when this was not the case. Spoke
on prayer and said there was nothing that
gave such comfort as going off by ourselves
and asking our Heavenly Father to help
us; also spoke of the anxiety that mothers
felt for their children and of the joy her
Temple work brought to her, said it help-
ed her to bear the burdens of life, for we all
had them. Urged the sisters to come here.
	Sister Mary L. Morris felt she had been
blest in coming here this afternoon, many
precious things had been spoken. Made
some very pleasing remarks.
	Sister Lizzie Decker said she felt she
must speak of the goodness of God to her,
and said she never could have lived if it
had not been that she could go to the Lord
and ask Him for help. Referred to her
Temple work and the benefit it had been to
her, also spoke of her anxiety for her child-
ren and asked the blessing of Heaven upon
us.
	Sister Frances Smith spoke of the faith
of her little grand-daughter who was very
much afflicted with scarlet fever, she said
she knew if they would send her name to
her Sunday school to be prayed for she
would be healed. This was done and she
was healed almost instantly.
	Testimonies were borne by Sisters Sarah
Phelps and Alice Woolley. President Horne
made some excellent closing remarks and
meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
	Singing ‘‘From all that dwell below.”
Benediction by Sister Lula G. Richards.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec’y.


U.W. P. C.

	MINUTES of the U. W. P. C. held
Sep. 30. President Fox called the meeting
to order at the usual time. After prayer by
Mrs. Stevenson, the secretary called the
roll, members responding with sentiments
from Elizabeth Barrett Browning.
	Under “unfinished business” the amend-
ments to the Federation Constitution by the


Woman’s club, which was laid on the table
at the previous meeting, were brought be-
fore the club. Amendment to Art. III,
sec. 3 was read and discussed. A motion
was made by Dr. Ferguson that the amend-
ment be accepted The motion was lost.
The amendment to the by laws, Art. II.
was read and discussed. Motion by Dr.
Ferguson that this amendment be accepted.
Carried. The club voted that the annual
business meeting should be held Monday,
October 18, at 11 a. m.
	Next in order was the critic’s report by
Dr. Shipp. Dr. Pratt was appointed critic
for the evening.
	The evening’s program was as follows:
Topic—“Alaska,” Mrs. Aimee Schiller.
Original poem—“The Woman Preacher,”
Dr. Shipp. Mrs. Dickinson was unable to
be present and her paper on the “Effect of
Klondike gold discoveries on American in-
terests” was postponed.
	Mrs. Lawler at the request, of the club
described the vessel in which she crossed
the Atlantic, also a number of points and
places of interest in Paris. The program
for the October meeting was discussed and
suggestions made. A motion was made
and carried that at the October meeting
each member represent some prominent
character in fiction. A motion was made
and carried that each member be permitted
to bring an escort. Dr. Shipp graciously
offered her home for that meeting. The
club decided to have refreshments and
Pearl Russell, Mrs. Lovesy, Mrs. Wilcox,
Mrs. Hyde and Clara Ferguson were ap-
pointed as a committee to assist Dr. Shipp.
Dr. Pratt gave her report as critic, the
minutes were read and after benediction by
Mrs. Young the club adjourned for one
month.
			ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec.


R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

WAYNE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference held at Canes-
ville August 24, 1897 in the afternoon,
President Jane S. Coleman presiding. Sing-
ing “How firm a foundation.” Prayer by
Patriarch F. W. Young. Singing “What
was witnessed in the heavens.”
	Prasident. Jane S. Coleman said it afford-
ed her much pleasure to meet with the
brethren and sisters in Relief Society con-
ference. She had lately visited the local
branches of the Relief Society in the west-
ern part of the Stake, all were feeling and
doing well and were energetic in their
labors. Encouraged the sisters to attend
their meetings, especially the monthly testi-
mony meetings, and advised the young sis-
ters to attend also, that a bond of friendship
and good feeling should exist between the
Y. L. M. I. A. and the Relief Society by
mingling together; good advice can be
given, virtue taught and much good
accomplished. Spoke of looking after the
poor and the necessity for the members to
give temporal aid (donations) that the presi-
dent may have the necessary means at
hand to carry out what is required of her.
Wished the sisters to be more interested in
the EXPONENT by subscribing for it.
	Sister Eliza Rust, president of the Canes-
ville Relief Society, gave a good report.
Said all the young sisters had joined and
were members of the Relief Society. They
have a lot nicely fenced and cultivated,
they got a good crop of beans on part of it.
	President Mary A. White reported Giles


[Column 1]
in good condition. Sister Robinson (our
Stake President’s mother) said she had been
interested in the remarks made. She had
visited the Relief Society with Sister Cole-
man and had an enjoyable time. Spoke
upon prayer and the testimony of the Gos-
pel, also upon obeying the Word of Wis-
dom, and gave good advice.
	Sister Mary Ballard reported the Thur-
ber Relief Society in good running order.
Said they were building a Relief Society
hall and had very good success in their
undertaking.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks spoke well,
encourged the mothers to attend their meet-
ings and set an example for their daughters,
also spoke upon virtue, the Word of Wis-
dom and keeping the commandments of
God.
	President H. M. Hansen felt pleased to
hear the good reports of the sisters and
encouraged them to continue to press for-
ward, and their efforts to accomplish good
would be crowned with success.
	President G. Bastian said he had been
interested in the remarks made, also in
hearing the reports given. Spoke on being
kind to the poor, that the needy should not
think or feel bad to receive from the Relief
Society when in need of assistance. He
spoke to the young, said to be kind to their
parents.
	Bishop Hanks had been interested in the
good remarks during the conference and
appreciated the labors of the Relief Society.
Spoke on prayer and a virtuous life.
	President W. E. Robinson said he felt to
endorse the remarks of his brethren and sis-
ters and was pleased with the reports of the
different branches of the Society. He
always speaks very encouragingly to the
sisters and sustains them by attending the
conferences and giving a word in season on
many good subjects. Conference adjourned
till called. Singing. Benediction by
Elder Joseph Eckersley.
			ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.
BEAVER STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of Beaver Stake held
its conference in the Society Hall, Beaver
City, Utah, Tuesday Sep. 3, 1897, com-
mencing at 10 o’clock a. m. Present on
the stand were President C. D. White,
Counselors M. L. Shepherd and J. F. Tol-
ton, Bishop Geo. Mumford, Patriarch D.
Tyler, Prof. W. G. Bickley, Sisters C. C.
Shepherd, S. M. Dell, President J. W.
Bickley and others. Meeting was called to
order by Sister C. C. Shepherd. Singing
“Hail to the brightness.” Prayer by
Patriarch D. Tyler. Singing “Praise to
the man.” Minutes of previous meeting
read and approved.
	Sister Shepherd felt thankful to see so
many present, still there is a vacancy in
our midst, but we know that our dear
departed President, Sister Tyler, did her
work and did it well. Felt sorry that
through sickness Sister M. A. White was
prevented from being with us. She had
in company with other sisters visited
through the Stake and found a good set of
sisters, all alive to their duties.
	President J. W. Bickley reported the
Beaver Relief Society in good condition and
working unitedly. Invited all to attend
the dedicatory services of the new granery
on the 16th inst.
	Sister E. E. Owen said there was a good
spirit here, and contrasted the condition of
the Saints who own comfortable homes as

[Column 2]
being far in advance of a large portion of
the world.
	President C. D. White felt pleased to see
so many present, no ward is complete with
out a Relief Society. The women of a com-
munity shape its destiny. Said he was very
sorry to have to reorganize the Stake Soci-
ety, and spoke very highly of our departed
president. Did not know whom the sisters
would like for president, desired each one
to write a first and second choice on slips
of paper, and himself and counselors would
look them over during the noon hour and
decide. Made many encouraging and
instructive remarks, and said this was a
good year to store grain.
	Bishop Geo. Mumford said the duties of
the sisters as well as the brethren are great.
There is a place for every one in this
Church, let our Church duties be first.
Spoke on economy, and said we should
give kind advice to our young people. If
we see any a little wayward take them
aside and talk kindly and show them their
danger.
	Counselor M. A. Tolton bore a faithful
testimony to the Gospel and said we
should sustain our officers and the author-
ties. Meeting adjourned till 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “Be it my only wisdom here.” Bene-
diction by Counselor M. L. Shepherd.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting called
to order at 2 p.m. by Sister C. C. Shepherd.
Singing “Glory to God on high.” prayer
by Prof. W. C. Bickley. Singing “I saw
a mighty angel fly.” The secretary read
a letter from Sister Hannah Sorenson, also
one from Dr. Allen of Provo in regard to
Sister Sorenson’s class of work. Sister L.
W. Jones explained why we should have
those lectures.
	Sister S. M. Dell bore her testimony and
desired to be useful. Counselor M L.
Shepherd said the duties of the Relief Soci-
ety were many and varied. Spoke on
economy, cleanliness, training of our child-
ren and the storing of grain.
	Sister Lydia White made a few excellent
remarks, wanted to do all the good she
could. Sister M. E. Murdock spoke very
highly of Sister Sorenson and hoped we
would get her here and be benefited by her
good instructions. Spoke against slander.
	Counselor J. F. Tolton praised the
labors of the Relief Society and the interest
taken therein. Unity brings success. No
unclean spirit can enjoy the benefits derived
from the Gospel. Sister Mary Fernley and
Betsy Goodwin made excellent remarks.
Patriarch D. Tyler spoke of the ability and
talent of Sister Sorenson. Said we want to
advance in knowledge.
	The biographical sketch and resolutions
formulated by the Beaver Relief Society in
behalf of our beloved President, Sister Ruth
