VOL. 26. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1898. NO. 23.


CONTENTS:
	Daughters of the Revolution—Clarissa L. S.
Williams. Frances Elizabeth Willard—E. B.
Wells. M s. Henrotin's Letter. Ladies' Semi
monthly Meeting—L. D. Alder, Act. Sec. R. S.
Reports. In Memo[-]iam. Ma[-]y R. Goodliffe—
Esther Goodliffe: C[-]ara Barton in Tampa Flor-
ida. A Testimonial—Com.
	EDITORIAL:—Gov. Wel[-]s’s Proclamation, The
War with Spain. Utah Patriotism. Melba's
Concert. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—The Flag Goes By—H. H. Bennett.
Martin Luther—Mary A. Freeze. Hisp[-]nia—Lydia
D. Alder.


THE FLAG GOES BY.
		BY H. H. BENNETT.

	HATS off!
Along the street there comes
A blare of bugles, a ruffle of drums,
A flash of color beneath the sky;
	Hats off!
The flag is passing by!

Blue and crimson and white it shines,
Over the steel-tipped ordered lines.
	Hats off!
The colors before us fly:
But more than the flag is passing by.

 Sea-fights and land-fights grim and great,
Fought to make and to save the State.
Weary marches and sinking ships;
Cheers of victory on dying lips;

Days of plenty and years of peace;
March of a strong land’s swift increase;
Equal justice, right and law,
Stately honor and reverend awe;

Sign of a nation great and strong,
Go ward her people from foreign wrong;
Pride and glory and honor, all
Live in the colors to stand or fall.

	Hats off!
Along the street there comes
A blare of bug'es, a ruffle of drums;
And loyal hearts are beating high:
	Hats off!
The flag is passing by!
				-Youth's Companion.


(Column 1)
	MARTIN LUTHER.

THIS wonderful Reformer,
	I’ve chosen for my theme,
Altho’ his name has echoed
	And re-echoed down the stream
Of time, while bards and orators 
	Have sung and spoke his praise,
With eloquence enchanting,
	And with sweet, harmonious lays.

Most surely was the part he played
	In the history of our race,
All planned by an Almighty power,
	E’en the very time and place,
That he should do his brave, bold deeds, 
	And to help the boy, was given
A lovely, noble mother,
	To teach of God and heaven.

(Column 2)
Amid, a world of chaos
	Where all was dark and dim;
As a brilliant, fiery meteor
	He shot forth, and to him;
All generations owe
	Their love and homage true,
For to him the precious liberty
	We have is largely due.
With al[-] his powers he battled
	’Gainst the false and for the true.

His deep religious nature
	And the evil he had known,
Made him separa e from his fellows,
	And seek the covenant lone. 
While here his soul found respite
	From the burden of his sin,
As he learned the Savior’s mission
	That salvation he might win.

The burning words he uttered, 
	Came not from lips alone,
But from the soul’s recesses,
	And from reasons lofty throne.
So they touched the hearts of others
	With convincing mighty power,
And the march of truth swept onward
 	Gaining converts hour by hour.

E’en the angels seemed to aid him
	As they soared on wings of love,
Bearing with them Luther’s message,
	Inspired from above.
And when the Church assailed him,
	He bravely stood his ground,
True to God and conscience,
	Though demons hovered  [-]ound.

As the keen and vivid lightning
	He pierced proud error’s shield,
Aggressive, bold defiant
	He compelled the foe to yield,
Or like the awful thunder
	Pealing loud from height to height,
He swayed the fate of nations,
	And stood fearless in his might.

Yet this brave and gifted leader
	Was tender in his love,
 In his care for wife and children
	He was gentle as a dove,
In his character was mingled
	The stern, the fierce, the kind,
Defiant when beset by wrong,
	Yet graceful and refined.

He knew not fear but fear of God,
	Which garnished all his life, 
Where’er that led him there he walked,
	However fierce the strife,
Though mighty powers rebuked him,
	Defiant, grand and bold,
He scorned them, taking for his shield,
	The Scriptures had of old.

And from that flame he kindled
	Has grown a brilliant fire,
Blazing aloft unto the heavens,
	While all the world admire.
The good will ever honor him
	And on the scroll of fame,
In letters bright will ever glisten
	Martin Luther’s name.
			MARY A. FREEZE.


MISS HELEN GOULD has offered the
Government $100,000 for the war.


DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.

OBJECTS AND AIMS OF THE SOCIETY.
	PATRIOTISM is to a certain extent an in-
herent quality. Yet it can be cultivated
and should be among the American people.
Our children should early be imbued with a
reverence and love for the divine constitu-
tion of our country given, as we believe it
was, to the founders by our Heavenly
Father. The name of this society, Daugh-
ters of the Revolution, suggests a variety of
thoughts.
	The “Daughters” from the time of the
landing of the Pilgrim Fathers have occu-
pied a prominent place in the building up of
this great country. While they were not
encouraged in filling positions of prominence
their quiet home influence was conducive
of making the greatest patriots and states-
men. We know that to a mother’s influence
is attributed the greatness of her sons, and
the Sons of America are great and noble.
	Our mothers have always been self-sacri-
ficing and devoted in their patriotism to
their beloved country. The struggles,
hardships and privations they have endured
can never be known in this world. Yet they
have always been satisfied and happy in
the knowledge that it was all for America,
“The land of the free, and the home of the
brave.”
	America, dear America! even now the
clouds are dark and threatening, but you will
triumph. Your noble sons and daughters
are willing to undergo any trials for you.
And our Father in heaven who has given
this continent as an inheritance to his chil-
dren will smile upon you in maintaining
everlasting freedom.
	Our aim is high. It is to imbue our sons
and daughters with the love of liberty and
unity which are the greatest blessings
vouchsafed a nation. Our object is to study
the divine institutions of our country. To
make ourselves familiar with the history of
our country and with the lives of our great
men and women.
	In fact our object is to be in close touch
with everything American, and to inculcate
in the minds and hearts of our children
such a love for country that never will a
foreign nation be able to withstand the
bravery and humanity of the sons and
daughters of this fair land, America.
		CLARISSA L. S. WILLIAMS.


FRANCES ELIZABETH WILLARD.

READ AT THE UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS
CLUB APRIL 30, 1898.
	BEFORE me in my mind’s eye I have a
perfect picture of Miss Willard as I saw her
day after day in the President’s place at the
National Council of Women in Washington
in the month of February 1891. The pic-
ture is a beautiful one, of a woman who
knew exactly how to conduct a meeting of
thousands of women congregated together
for mutual helpfulness. Her very presence
gave one the idea of her rare qualities in
dealing with people as well as subjects. She


[Column 1]
knew how to say the right thing at the
proper time and to make it eloquently per-
suasive and convincing. In fact she im-
pressed one as a born leader of people and
of active forces. A closer acquaintance
with this brave woman confirmed these
views of her whole-souled character and
her abundant versatility in entertaining and
holding an audience however numerous or
of whatever variety of faiths or views.
	I had met her on two or three occasions
previously and had grown somewhat famil-
iar with her voice and manner. But even
before I had ever even seen her I had form-
ed my idea of her from the description given
me by Dr. Pratt (our honored president.)
She had spoken to me in glowing terms of
Miss Willard and had made me feel through
her an admiration one seldom feels for an
unknown woman. When Miss Willard
visited Utah afterwards I called upon her
with Dr. Pratt who had met her in the
East and had given me my first view of the
woman, and I often say I had fallen in love
with her before I ever saw her. 
	Dr. Pratt and myself went to hear Miss
Willard in the M. E. Church and we were
both fascinated, so to speak, with her
sparkling personality; then meeting her in
Washington, president of the National
Council, I became deeply interested in the
woman herself—seeing her every day for an
entire week, morning, afternoon and eve-
ning presiding with grace and dignity over
such an august assembly of educated, intel-
ligent women from all parts of the United
States and foreign countries also, one ob-
tained a good idea of her real self and her
knowledge of the world and the vexed
and varied questions that came up from time
to time for consideration.
	I beg pardon for personalities but meeting
Miss Willard since then in Chicago at the
time of the World’s Fair and in Washing-
ton in 1895—at the second triennial session
of the National Council—nothing has ever
caused me to think or feel that she was not
a royal, loyal, womanly woman, adorned
with purity, modesty and all that make up
the sum of loveliness in womanhood.
	She lived unselfishly and self-sacrificingly
for the good of others, the uplifting and bet-
terment of humanity; beloved by all who
knew her and who were associated with her
in her home and in her public career. Mrs.
Mary Lowe Dickinson said of her ap-
propriately:
	“It was indeed a prismatic, many-sided
life. And whether we think of her as the
prairie-child, as daughter, sister, student,
teacher, orator, leader, reformer, it was on
every side a white life, facing the sun and
absorbing and reflecting the light.”
	Frances E. Willard, president of the
World’s Woman’s Temperance Union, (said
to be the most numerous organization of
women,) who died on February 19, 1898—
was of strictly New England parentage,
her forefathers came and settled in Concord,
Mass., about fifteen years after the landing
of the Pilgrims. Major Simon Willard of
Kent, England, founder of the N. E. branch,
was a man of great force of character and of
distinguished public service. Miss Willard’s
great grandfather, Rev. Elijah Willard,
was forty years a pastor in Dublin, New
Hampshire, and his son, Oliver Atherton
Willard, was a pioneer, first in Wheelock,
Vt., and later in Ogden, Monroe Co., N.
Y., where he died leaving to his widow,
Catherine Lewis Willard, the rearing of a
young family in a country almost a wilder-

[Column 2]
ness. Josiah the eldest son, the father of
Frances Willard, grew to maturity in these
surroundings and at twenty-six years of age
married Mary Thompson Hill, born in Dan-
ville, Vt. Frances was the fourth of five
children born to them, two of whom died
in infancy before her birth. She seems to
have inherited many of the best gifts and
powers of her parents and ancestry. She
was born in Churchville, near Rochester,
N. Y., September 28, 1839, but her parents
removed to Oberlin, Ohio, before she was
two years of age that the father might pur-
sue intellectual studies; they lived in Ober-
lin five years, both parents improving the
advantages and opportunities afforded them
of study and culture; but Mr. Willard’s
health demanded open air and exercise and
he removed with his family in May, 1846 to
Janesville, Wisconsin, and settled on a
beautiful farm, half prairie and half forest
on the banks of Rock river—they called
their abode “Forest Home.” Miss Willard’s
mother was poetical in her nature but also
philosophical—a woman of lofty sentiments
and well calculated to be a sort of mentor
and companion to her children in a place
where they were mostly dependent upon
their own resources for society. The father
was near to nature’s heart in a vivid fash-
ion and life was to the children intellectual
and healthful, enjoying entire freedom from
fashionable restraint, and Miss Willard’s
early education was in the home from her
parents. Her first teacher was a graduate
from Yale College who had been a classical
tutor in Oberlin. At the age of seventeen
she was sent with her sister Mary to Mil-
waukee Female College, and later she was
transferred to Northwestern Female College
in Evanston, Ill., where the parents re-
moved in the autumn of the same year that
the home circle might not be broken up.
Miss Willard graduated with Valedictory
honor from that institution in 1859—and
afterwards taught sixteen years in six dif-
ferent localities beginning in district schools
and her pupils numbering in all about two
thousand. After district and public school
teaching she taught in Kankakee Academy
and Pittsburgh Female College, Evanston,
Ill., and was afterwards preceptress in
Genesee Wesleyan Seminary, Dima, N. Y.,
and was president of the Ladies’ College,
and later the Woman’s College of the North-
western University of which she was dean
and professor of aesthetics. She was a firm
believer in co education and dealt with the
unsolved problem in its earlier stages with
hopefulness and skill.
	The Chicago fire swept away a large part
of the financial aid which had been promised
to the college, and the new arrangement
led to complications in the government of
the Woman’s College which rendered it
impossible for Miss Willard to carry out her
plans and she resigned in June 1874.
	From that time she became stirred to the
soul with the temperance crusade in Ohio
and during that winter she heard the divine
call to her life-work. Mrs. Mary A. Liver-
more wished her to join the crusade and
gave her all possible encouragement. While
in New York City in 1874—she had a letter
from Louisa S. Rounds of Chicago, saying,
“It has come to me as I believe from the
Lord that you ought to be president. We
are a little band without money or exper-
ience, but with strong faith. If you will
come, there will be no doubt of your elec-
tion.” Miss Willard turned from most
attractive offers in her profession and going

[Column 3]
West, within a week was made president of
the Chicago Woman’s Christian Temperance
Union.
	It is said Miss Willard in those early
years of her work did not regard pecuniary
compensation and often had no money to
pay for noonday lunch, consequently went
without it, and walked miles because she
had not five cents to pay for a ride on the
street cars. She said she found that period
of her life more blessed than any—baptized
as she was in suffering afterward her field
began to widen.
	A few women came to her aid in estab-
lishing a Gospel meeting in lower Farwell
hall for the benefit of the intemperate. In
this way scores and hundreds of wicked
men were reformed and her Gospel
talks were popular and successful. They
were more to her than the public addresses
she had made to grand audiences a few
years previous, the fact that wicked men
wept and prayed and repented was the com-
pensation she most desired. She turned
away from the attraction of cultivated soci-
ety and scholarly themes and labored in
philanthropic interests entirely.
	From the day of small things the society
grew under her guidance and management,
and the Chicago Woman’s Temperance
Union built the Woman’s Temperance
Temple, and established the Woman’s
Temperance Publication Association, which
scatters its pages of temperance literature
over the world.
	After some time she was urged to accept
and was nominated to the presidency of the
first National Temperance Convention, but
refused and was then elected the corres-
ponding secretary which she accepted, and
besides the large amount of writing spoke
in Chautauqua New England and Middle
States summer camps.
	It was in 1876 while engaged in Bible
study and prayer she was led to the convic-
tion that she ought to speak for woman’s
ballot as a protection to the home from the
tyranny of drink, and in the ensuing
autumn in the national convention in
Newark, N. Y., disregarding the earnest
pleadings of conservative friends, she de-
clared her convictions in her first suffrage
speech.
	It was Miss Willard who originated the
motto, “For God and Home and Native
Land”—first adopted by the Chicago Union,
then the Illinois State Union and became
that of the National, and in 1891 in Boston,
Mass., was adapted to the World’s Union
by changing native to every and reading,
“For God and Home and Every Land.”
The two newspapers Miss Willard assisted
in founding, Our Union in New York
and the Signal in Illinois, were finally
merged into one and called the Union Sig-
nal and is now one of the most widely cir-
culated papers in the world.
	To cover the ground of all the work even
in outline done by this remarkable woman
would occupy a whole evening.
	In 1881 Miss Willard made a tour of the
Southern States which reconstructed her
views on many important questions and did
much to remove conservative prejudice and
sectional opposition. During 1882 she com-
pleted her plan of visiting and organizing
in every state and territority in the United
States and of presenting the cause in every
town and city that had reached a popula-
tion of ten thousand. She visited the Paci-
fic Coast, California and British Columbia
and covered more than 25,000 miles of toil


[Column 1]
some travel, and was enabled to meet the 
National Convention in Detroit, Michigan,
in October 1883 to celebrate the first de-
cade of temperance work rejoicing over
complete organizations of the Woman’s Temperance Union in the 48 sub-divisions
of the United States.
	Miss Willard took charge of the work
when the White Cross movement was ad-
opted as a feature of the Union—this de-
veloped more rapidly than any part of the
work—thousands and tens of thousands of
signatures were obtained for the better
legal protection of women and girls and
presented to Congress; through these deter-
mined efforts legislative action was secured
in almost every state and territory. On 
the Pacific Coast Miss Willard became deep-
ly impressed by the misery consequent upon
the opium habit and succeeded in sending
Mrs. Mary A. Leavitt out as a missionary
to the Sandwich Islands, Australia, Japan,
China, India, Africa and Europe, she was
absent eight years—making hosts of friends
and winning them to the ranks.
	The British Woman’s Temperance Union 
had been previously organized and Mrs.
Margaret Lucas, the sister of John Bright
(and afterwards first president of the
World’s Christian Temperance Union) was
present at the National Convention at Min-
neapolis, Minn., in 1886. Her reception was
magnificent—the convention rising in
groups to honor her—first the crusaders,
then the New England States, then the
Middle States, after these the Western and
Pacific Coast and last the Southern, while
English and American flags waved from
the platform and all joined in singing “God
save the Queen.” The Dominion Wo-
man’s Christian Temperance Union in Can-
ada has been another powerful organization
and now thirty-five nations are united in
the World’s Christian Temperance Union,
and the wearers of the white ribbon num-
ber three hundred thousand—half of the
women are residents of the United States.
	Miss Willard was reelected president of the
National Union every year after 1879, but
in 1887 she was elected president of the 
World’s Christian Union and has been re-
elected biennially ever since. Besides the
missionary and other work we must men-
tion the monster Polygott petition against
legalizing the alcohol and opium traffic
which has been translated into many lan-
guages and hundreds of dialects and active-
ly circulated in Great Britain, Switzerland,
Scandinavia, India, China, Japan, Ceylon,
Australia, Sandwich Islands, Chili, Canada
and the United States, and signed by a
million women. The president of the
British Woman’s Temperance Union, Lady
Henry Somerset, is vice president of the
World’s Christian Temperance Union and
has been a close friend of Miss Willard’s for
many years. It has been said of Miss Wil-
lard that she was “the most widely known
and best beloved woman in America.”
	There are othor countries in which Miss
Willard has traveled besides England and
America where her name is a familiar one.
She has traversed Ireland, Denmark, Ger-
many, Holland, Belgium, France, Austria,
Turkey in Europe; andAsia, Greece, Palestine
and Egypt, and made herself rich in knowl-
edge of these countries. She has contrib-
uted thousands of articles to periodicals,
journals and magazines and the Union Sig-
nal owes much to her pen as editor in chief.
Her books are “Nineteen Beautiful Years,”
“Hints and Helps in Temperance Work,”
“How to Win,” “Woman in the Pulpit,”

[Column 2]
“Woman and Temperance,” “Glimpses of
Fifty Years,” “A Classic Town” and “A
Young Journalist,” the last was written in
conjunction with Lady Somerset; as one of
the committee of the Temperance Congress
at the Columbian Exposition she rendered a
most helpful work to humanity. During
the last few years since her health failed so
much from overwork she has lived much of
the time with Lady Somerset in her beauti-
ful and magnificent home in England, a
congeniality between these two women has
held them fast in a sublime and sacred
friendship.
	Lady Somerset says in her article in the
North American Review: “We do not for-
get in England that to no other philan-
thropist did we ever give so warm a wel-
come. The great meeting at Exeter Hall
that was held in her honor was probably the
most representative gathering that has ever
assembled to greet any great man or wo-
man on that historic platform, and we are
glad to know that we laid laurels at her
feet while yet the homage could bring a
smile to her face and words of praise could
still rejoice her heart.”
	Frances Willard felt that a woman owed 
it to all other women to live as bravely, as
helpfully and as grandly as she could.
					E. B. WELLS.


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HISPANIA.

HISPANIA thy doom is sealed! The blood 
Of innocence cries for vengeance. 
								Blood and
Tears mark thy pathway for centuries,
And as thou hast sown so must thou
Reap,tears and blood for thy portion.
The noble Incas, trusting, unsuspecting, though
	long among the dead,
Cry for thy downfall.
Romantic thou in love, thy troubadours singing
	their tender passion 
To the tune of the light guitar, where silver
	moonbeams faintly fall,
Love’s soft light from shining lustrous eyes reward
	a lover’s kiss;
But under their smiling, base treachery
	Lurks, that to the death betrays,
In blackened crime or tortures cruel and slow.
Hispaniola as thy sins are great, so mighty must
	be thy fall,
Thy yoke, burdens thy subjects willing neck no
	longer,
But in multitudes, they rise against thee,  
Insurrection at home, wars abroad, thy crown in
	the balance trembles.
Thy power is broken, and strangers rule over
	thee.
O, Montezuma thou shalt now be avenged!
Thou, monarch of a princely race with subjects
True, possessors of wealth fabulous beyond
Compare, they did murder and pillage.
The debt must now be paid. Dost see them
Rising from their graves, the crimson blood
Oozing, dripping from ugly wounds?
Their sightless eyes, and ghastly hands
Raised heavenward, to invoke her vengeance?
Where are their riches, where their treasures?
	Gone
To Spain! Where their princely diadem, their
	works of art?
Gone, gone, stolen by those whose treachery
	is the spectacle of a world,
Ingrates, dealing death to friends in kingly halls,
At whose banquet they sup. 
							Centuries have
Passed away but the blot still remains.
Generations have been born, and acting their

[Column 2]
	part on the stream of Time
Are sleeping in the dust. Children
Reading of thy base ingratitude, shudder to read
	the tale 
Betrayers of friendship, alluring the
Guiltless to destruction, thou hast been.
							Haughty and
Proud art thou, but in the dust thou shalt lie,
An object of pity for tyrants everywhere.
Thy sins have reached to heaven, so clanging loud
	thy convicts chains,
Now read thy doom!
								And Cuba
Must be free! Deep groans to God, ascend from
This poor and stricken land! Brave Cuba thou
	shalt be free!
Thy murmuring winds low sound the dying’s
	groan. 
Thy graves the mourner’s sigh, while
Blood and tears bespread the land.
But freedom’s banner doth wave across
The sea, where float the stars and stripes, 
A mighty arm is raised for thee to break the
	tyrant’s band,
Lo! o’er the world the shout rings wildly out,
	rejoice! for Cuba’s free!
 
And shall the Maine forgotten be, though in the
	mud she lies?
Sent to her doom by treacherous foes, who came
	in f[-]iendly guise?
Her crew asleep, a night most dark, no tears of
	pity rise;
The signal came, and the Battle S[-]ip, upward dash-
	es toward the skies.
The wild waves hush the martyrs shriek and end
	their quivering pain;
Death closes o’er and deep they lie, to never rise
	again.
And sisters pray, and mothers weep for those
	among the dead,
And fathers too whose hair is gray their hope
	forever fled.
And widow’s hearts with anguish break, and or-
	phans cry in vain;
For the Sacrifice, who sailed away on the fated,
	ill-starred Maine.
Hispania! for thee no mourner weeps thy doom
	forever to die,
On history’s page thy name goes out, thy debt
	of liberty to satisfy.
						LYDIA D. ALDER.


“MISS M. LOUISE GILLMORE is said to
have served in the post office longer than
any other woman. She has been clerk at
the ladies’ window in Chicago since Oct.
8, 1867. She received the appointment un-
der Gen. F. T. Sherman, the successor of
her brother, Col. Robert A. Gillmore, who
was drowned soon after he became post-
master. During her thirty years’ service
she has never been absent a day except for
three months when disabled by a serious
accident.”
	IN an appeal for financial assistance the
New York Kindergarten Association says:
“New York has the most over-crowded
population in the civilized world; many
thousands of children in its streets are
unprovided with school accommodation of
any kind, and it is more poorly supplied
with kindergartens than any other of our
great American cities. The need is press-
ing for sufficient money even to support the
fifteen free kindergartens under the charge
of the New York Kindergarten Association.
Nearly $27,000 must be expended annually
to keep the present schools open.”
							Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
pace one me, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
ount regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY MAY 1, 1898.


GOV. WELLS’S PROCLAMATION.

	IT was after midnight last night (April
25) when the Governor and Secretary of
State Hammond signed a proclamation for
volunteers. It took upwards of four hours
of consultation before the document was
completed. There were quite a number
present at the conference, among whom
were Adjutant General John Q. Cannon,
Cols. Charles S. Burton, Nephi W. Clayton
and W. H. Penrose. The proclamation is
as follows:
“By the Governor of the State of Utah:
	“A PROCLAMATION.
	“Whereas, The President of the United
States has issued a proclamation calling up-
ton the various states for 125,000 volunteers
to serve in the army of the United States,
the same to be apportioned among the
several states and territories and the Dis-
trict of Columbia, according to population
and to serve for two years unless sooner
discharged, and
	“Whereas in pursuance of said procla-
mation the secretary of war has designated
the quota from the State of Utah to be one
troop of cavalry, special mounted service
and two light batteries of artillery;
	“Now, therefore, I, Heber M. Wells,
Governor of the State of Utah, to supply
the said quota from this state, do hereby
call for volunteers to the approximate num-
ber of 500 men to enlist in the army of the
United States for the term of two years un-
less sooner discharged. It is the wish of
the President that the National Guard shall
be used as far as their numbers will permit,
and they are therefore especially invited to
enlist. This being the first call for volun-
teers, however, and there being a possibili-
ty of others, this invitation is not to be
construed as expressing the desire that the
infantry arm of the service be weakened by
transfer or discharge. The proportion of
calvary and artillery in the organized militia
being small there will be abundant oppor-
tunity for civilian volunteers, and to them
the invitation is extended with equal cor-
diality.
	“The general requirements for enlistment
are as follows: Men should be intelligent,
active and muscular, free from disease and
of good character and habits, and between
the ages of 21 and 45. Candidates will be
subject to the medical examination pre-
scribed by the army regulations. All of
the recruits for the cavalry and a great
majority of those for the artillery must be


accustomed to horses, and a suitable pro-
portion should be mechanics.
	“Officers to be hereafter designated will
be sent immediately to various central points
within the State for the purpose of recruit-
ing the volunteers. The recruits will be
rendezvoused at Salt Lake City as soon as
possible before May 5, 1898, when they will
be mustered into the service of the United
States.
	“In witness whereof I have hereunto set
my hand and caused the great seal of the
State of Utah to be affixed. Done in Salt
Lake City this 25th day of April, A. D.
1898.
“HEBER M. WELLS”
“By the Governor.
	“J. T. Hammond,
		“Secretary of State.”


THE WAR WITH SPAIN.

LETTER ON THE SUBJECT.

Office of the First Presidency of the
	Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
	Saints.
			Salt Lake City Utah,
					April 28, 1898.

Hon. Heber M. Wells, Governor of the
State of Utah:
	Dear Governor—We have read with
much interest your proclamation to the peo-
ple of our State, in which you call, in re-
sponse to the proclamation of the President
of the United States, for the enlistment of
500 men to furnish Utah’s quota of the
125,000 volunteers called for by the
President to serve in the army of the United
States for two years.
	The people whom we represent are lovers
of peace, and would do anything in their
power consistent with honor and the patri-
otic duty which every citizen owes to his
country, to avert war and its dreadful train
of consequences. Because of this feeling
we have been led to admire the course which
has been taken by President McKinley
throughout the Spanish imbrogilo, and we
have hoped that his efforts to preserve
peace between the two countries would re-
sult in success.
	But war has been declared and we have
it to meet. Our citizens are called upon to
enlist, and Utah is asked to furnish cavalry
and batteries of artillery approximating 500
men.
	We trust that the citizens of Utah who
are Latter-day Saints will be found ready to
respond with alacrity to this call which is
made upon our State. There was a time in
the past when we were called upon as a
religious organization, to make a far greater
sacrifice than this, under circumstances that
were exceedingly painful. Then there was
no hesitation; but upwards of one-third of
the men of suitable age formed a battalion
of 500, left the camp and volunteered to
take part in the Mexican war. In like
manner there should be no hesitation now;
and we sincerely trust that your recruiting
officers will find our co-religionsts as ready
now to enlist and march to the defense of
their country as their fathers were in the
days to which we refer.
	Trusting that you will be eminently suc-
cessful in raising Utah’s quota of volun-
teers, and praying that the Almighty will
protect our nation in the hour of trial and


assist us in our battles for humanity and
right, we remain. Very respectfully
	WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	GEO. Q. CANNON,
	JOS. F. SMITH,
First Presidency of the Church of Jesus
	Chirst of Latter-day Saints.


UTAH PATRIOTISM.

	THERE can be no doubt left in the mind
of any honest-minded person of the sterling
patriotism which exists in Utah. They are
loyal to the heart’s core and their ready re-
sponse to the call to arms has abundantly
proven it beyond contradiction.
	The heroism too of the mothers, wives
and sisters in the encouragement given even
though they were deeply pathetic in their
tenderness and heartfelt emotion, shows their
love of country and sympathy with the
down-trodden and oppressed of other nations.
It has been a part of the religion of the
Latter-day Saints to uphold the nation’s
honor, notwithstanding all that has been
said and published to the contrary. They
love the flag because it is the emblem of a
free republic and they hold sacred the Con-
stitution of the United States.
	War is a terrible thing, but when it be-
comes necessary to protect the life of any
nation or people from a bondage worse
than death, who can say it is not justifiable?
Would there were some better way, some
protection that could be obtained by arbi-
tration! Would that men could accept the
olive branch when offered, or a flag of truce
—but such is not the case at the present
time with Spain.
	President McKinley was, it is very evi-
dent, unwilling to declare war and it was
not until the war had actually begun that
he consented to any war measures. Ameri-
cans on the sea and on the land have clear-
ly evidenced their bravery and loyalty
as citizens of a free nation and the greatest
Republic on the earth. What more can any
man do than has been done; and is being
done daily and hourly for the unfortunate
Cubans to raise them from tyranny and
bondage for all time to come? But O, let
us hope and pray that war shall cease, that
the Lord will turn the hearts of those who
bear rule in ill-fated Spain to surrender
Cuba and give her poor oppressed people
freedom. Surely the women whose sons,
husbands and fathers have gone forth to
battle, will intercede with One who rules
and over-rules and who holds the destinies
of men and of nations in His hands—and
He will lend a listening ear to the prayers
of a broken heart and contrite spirit.
	Let us hope the world is not so wicked
that nations will be slain in a day, but if so
and the cries of the innocent have reached
unto heaven for vengeance, then indeed
must we beseech the Lord for strength to
endure the terrible ordeal.


MELBA’S CONCERT.

	THE world renowned Mme. Melba has
visited Salt Lake City and given her con-
cert in the Tabernacle. There were some
disappointments because of the failure to
appear in numbers assigned them of Mme.
Yon Canteren, Signor Carloone, Signor
Viviani and Mr. Van Hoose. The Sym-
phony orchestra under the leadership of
Signor Bamboni was exquisitely grand,


the opening number was Der Frieschsutz.
Mme. Mallfield’s sweet voice was greatly
appreciated in the air from Mignon, and
Mr. Rains, the basso, has a glorious voice,
his first selection “La Juire” was vigoro-
usly applauded, and to satisfy the demands
of the audience he gave “The Three Gren-
adiers,” which ends with the “Marsellaise.”
He has a fine presence and as he is only
young doubtless has a magnificent career
before him. Mlle. Toronto has a clear
soprano voice and shows much culture, she
sang first “Nobil Signor,” which was ex-
cellent and the applause was such that she
very gracefully gave a sweet little ballad as
an encore. On Mme. Melba’s entrance the
audience gave her an ovation such as we
have rarely seen, the enthusiasm increasing
as her birdlike notes trilled and thrilled
with wonderful harmony the delighted
listeners. It is the idea of some who are
connoisseurs of music that she surpasses
Patti and Nordica. Her first solo was from
the mad scene in Lucia, and certainly she
proved herself a finished artist in the pro-
fession. The accompanist, Mr. Spindler,
played the flute obligato which produced
still greater bursts of harmonious sounds
and the entire audience were wild with de-
light. After reappearing the third time she
gave the finale once more. A large bouquet
of magnificent roses was presented to her.
On her second appearance she gave the song
Mattinata Fasti, and received such applause
as is seldom accorded here, especially in the
Tabernacle; to pacify the people who in-
sisted upon her singing again notwithstand-
ing her gracious bows in acknowledgment
of the enthusiasm exhibited, she sang in a
daintily pathetic fashion the Swanee River,
Bamboni himself standing and turning the
leaves of her music. On her last appear-
ance she sang with great feeling Ardita’s
Se Saran Rose, and this she was obliged to 
repeat although her bows and acknowledg-
ments were profuse.
	Signor Campanari shared to a great ex-
tent the ovations of the evening. He has a
rich, full baritone voice, his manner and pre-
sence were in perfect taste which is always
a pleasure. His first number was “Dio
Possente” from Faust which is a favorite
generally, and for an encore he gave the
Toreardor song from Carmen, which is also
a very great favorite here. Finally he gave
the prologue from Il Pagliacci.
	The great tenor Salignac who seemed to
give great expression aside from his voice,
which was a superb tenor, shone brightly in
the pretty aria of Romeo and Juliet—which
also called heartily for an encore.
	The Tabernacle choir gave at first Aida,
under the leadership of Prof. Stevens with
the full strength of their singers, who made
a good showing and were in good voice,
and seemed to attract much attention from
strangers. For a finale the choir gave the
church scene from Cavalleria Rusticana
which was specially fine and marvellously
well done considering the great number of
voices which blend into one great burst of
sound.
	The superb orchestra finished the con-
cert with Mozart’s “Marriage of Figaro”
which was most exquisitely rendered.
	One of the disappointments of the con-
cert was that one act from “The Barber of
Saville” which had been so much adver-
tised was not given. Although the pro-
gram was fine there was scarcely as much
as a glimpse of grand opera as had been an-
ticipated by the audience.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	PRESIDENT M. ISABELLA HORNE at-
tended the Relief Society conference of
Davis Stake held at Centerville, April 28.
	PRESIDENT JANE S. RICHARDS and
Mrs. Emily S. Richards attended the Re-
lief Society conference of Utah Stake held
at Pleasant Grove on the 17th of April.
	SISTERS ELIZABETH J. STEVENSON and
Margaret A. Caine, also Elder L. John Nut-
tall attended the Relief Society conference
of Sevier Stake held at Richfield April 22.
Sister Stevenson remained ten days and
visited the Stake in company with Presi-
dent Elizabeth Bean and other sisters.
	THE general secretary of the Relief
Society is desirous of getting the name of
each Society that owns a house or granary
or both, in order to know exactly how
many there are who have such buildings of
their own. The general report only esti-
mates this class of property with real estate.
Please write these particulars to this office.
	THE presidents of the several Stake or-
ganizations of the Relief Society are ur-
gently requested to send as soon as possible
a letter stating the time of holding their
quarterly conferences in their respective
Stakes. State the days of the week and
days of the month, also the name of the
place or places where such conferences are
to be held and the hour of meeting during
this coming year up to April 1899. Ad-
dress the letters to the secretary, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, office of the “Woman’s Exponent,”
Templeton, Salt Lake City. The dates etc.
of all these conferences will be published as
soon as received at this office.
	THE dispatches bring news of the
Mother’s Congress now in session at Wash-
ington and to which four at least Utah wo-
men are in attendance. Hannah Sorenson,
Augusta W. Grant and Hattie B. Harker
Salt Lake City, and Delia Booth of Provo.
The “Peace Flag” made of three stripes of
white, purple and yellow satin was con-
spicuous on the stage at the Congress. In
the center piece is a shield shaped piece of
white satin bearing a dove and olive branch.
Within the shield are clasped hands and be-
low it a ribbon scroll on which are the
words “Pro Concordia Labor.” We see
by the telegrams that Mrs. Ellen A. Rich-
ardson of Boston, president of the George
Washington Memorial Association of Wo-
men, is a speaker at the Congress of
Mothers.
	SEVERAL women missionaries have been
called during the present year to assist in
the work of spreading the Gospel in the
fields of labor abroad. In commenting up-
on the fact it has been stated these were
the first that were ever sent in this capacity,
but the facts are a number of women in this
Church have been set apart to go at differ-
ent periods, most of them to serve with
their husbands. We have a long list of
names of the women who have served faith-
fully in the past as also those who are now
absent. The countries to which women 
have been sent are Europe (including Scan-
dinavia, Germany and Switzerland) Great
Britain, Chili, Sandwich, Society and Tonga
Islands, Samoa, New Zealand, Australia,
Canada and many parts of the United
States. About a dozen of these sisters
have gone since the conference in April.
At another time we may publish the names
of those who have been sent at different times.

[Column 2]
	A NEW book recently issued from the
office of the Juvenile Instructor is entitled
“Life Sketches” and is by Aurelia S.
Rogers. It is very interesting and especial-
ly so to those who love the Gospel and who
know the history and experiences of those
who embraced the faith in an early day, and
journeyed westward with the Saints from
place to place. Mrs. Rogers tells the inci-
dents of her life while in her father’s house
and subsequently graphically, and many
good lessons may be learned by our young
people from its pages. The book contains
very good cuts of Elder Orson Spencer, the
writer’s father, also of herself and her sis-
ter, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson. Every Church
organization should have one in its library,
and all the Latter-day Saints in buying
books for the home should include this
valuable book in the purchase. It is well
worth the price, 75cts. per copy. The book
presents a nice appearance outside, is printed
in clear type and contains 333 pages of read-
ing matter. It is pretty generally known
among the people that it was Mrs. Rogers
who originated the idea of the Primary
which has developed into such a spiritual
method of teaching the children.


MRS. HENROTIN’S LETTER.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
	THE General Federation of Woman’s
Clubs is an organization which embraces 29
State Federations of women’s clubs, which
number in membership 1,823 souls; and
over 500 other clubs are also united in the
membership of the General Federation.
The individual membership of these clubs
varies from 25 to 1,000 women. The larg-
est State Federation of women is that of
New York, with 25,000 women as members;
Massachusetts and Illinois rank next, the
former with 1,500, the latter with 1,300.
Ohio has about 7’000 women members of
the State Federation. It is estimated that
the General Federation has about 250,000
women in membership.
	The members of the General Federation
would condemn a war which was under-
taken for aggrandizement or for territorial
acquisition, as the Federation is founded on 
principles of fraternity and reciprocity; but
its members recognize the fact that this
nation is the vanguard of all Republics,
must stand alone for the cause of humanity,
for the cause of the weak against the strong,
for right as against might. We feel that
you represent this cause. Therefore, as a
Federation we tender you our sympathy,
and express to you our confidence in your
wisdom and your devotion to the highest 
good of this dear country of ours.
	While most of the members of the Feder-
ation represent no vote on subjects of nation-
al politics, we do represent great influence.
On us war will fall heaviest, for we must
give our sons, and during and after the
war, must help to repair the ravages and
losses and mitigate the sufferings which
such a terrible event must inevitably bring
in its train. Therefore, we have the best
right to an expression of our opinion. We
pledge you, while it is a question of human-
ity, that you may count on the normal sup-
port of this organization.
	I am, with sentiments of the highest con-
sideration, yours truly,
			ELLEN M. HENROTIN.
President of the General Federation of Wo-
men’s Clubs.


Mrs. Shillington, mother of Harry Shil-
lington, who went down with the Maine,
was shown Mrs. Henrotin’s letter and asked
if she thought it spoke for all the mothers
of America. Mrs. Shillington could not
read any further than the line, “On us war
will fall the heaviest, for we must give our
sons.”
	“I’ve already given one of mine,” she
said, “my Harry. But with one boy buried
in the mud of Havana Harbor, and another
on board a United States cruiser that may
be the first to be sunk in case of war, I have
no appeal to make to the President for
peace. I am a mother, and I have suffered as
perhaps not many of the mothers who have
joined in Mrs. Henrotin’s appeal have suf-
fered, but I do not shrink at the mention of
war.  
	“We must think of our own, and heaven
knows no one could have thought more of
her boy than I did of the one who died on
the Maine; but there are mothers in Cuba
who must be thought of—mothers who have
seen their little ones starve to death by their
sides. Their homes have been destroyed
and families sundered and men, women and
children allowed to die like cattle. I have
to think of those things. Of course I know
the money interests of the country are en-
titled to a full share of consideration, but I
believe too, in honor. I believe it, and I
taught it to my children, and I think they
learned the lesson, for the officers of the
Maine have written to me that my Harry
never swerved from the strict line of his
duty. He never shrank from what was
right, and neither will I, and I can give my
other boy to my country, if need be, as I
did my oldest.
	“Charlie sailed on the government cruiser
Alliance today. His last letter to me said
that now he had but one thought, and that
was revenge. You see, he is only a boy of
seventeen and the death of his brother filled
him. with hatred for those who caused it. I
do not feel about it as he does. I do not feel
any spirit of revenge. I only want to see
the honor of the country vindicated, so that
my boy who is a sailor on board a United
States ship, can walk the streets of a for-
eign city and feel that the blue uniform that
he wears is respected, and that if he dies
his government will demand atonement and
that he is something more than the iron
guns or the plating on the side of the ves-
sel that can be left buried in the muddy
bottom of a harbor and forgotten.
	“I have no criticism to make on the wo-
men who have joined in Mrs. Henrotin’s
petition. They want to be spared the loss
of their loved ones, and I pray God that
they may be. But He should let them suf-
fer as I have suffered, if it is for the sake of
the dead and dying in Cuba; if it is for the
sake of our country and her flag, and for
the sake of the boys who were killed on the
Maine, I can only say to them as I have
aid to myself a hundred and a thousand
times a day, ‘It had to be; it had to be.
There was no other way.’”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISS SARAH H. HUNT of Salem, State
regent of the Massachusetts Society of the
Daughters of the Revolution, has officially
tendered to Gov. Wolcott the services of
the association in any way in which wo-
men can help, either by nursing, raising
money or caring for the families of soldiers
and sailors in active service.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
Hall April 2, 1898, President M. I. Horne
presiding. Singing “Arise O glorious
Zion.” Prayer by Lydia D. Alder. Sing-
ing “Now let us rejoice.” President Horne
announced that Sister Zina Bull, our secre-
tary, had another appointment and called
on Sister Lydia D. Alder to act as secretary.
Minutes of the last meeting were read and
accepted.
	President Horne said it was refreshing
to meet with sisters who were striving to
serve God. We should look at the signs of
the times and read the prophecies. God
has set His hand to gather His servants to-
gether. He called Joseph the prophet,
through whom the Gospel was restored to
the earth. God kept this country for the
Saints, that they might be isolated while
His judgments pass over the world. “My
heart flows with gratitude to our Father
more and more every day. President Can-
non said the Lord might delay His coming
if we were not ready. Are we ready? Are
we prepared? if so the day of rejoicing is
near at hand. I examine my heart to see
if I am humble, if I am waiting for His
coming. These days are the same as in the
days of Noah, marrying and giving in mar-
riage even unto the day that the Lord sent
the deluge. Are we living as becomes
Saints? Do we pray often? Do we ap-
preciate the blessings He has bestowed upon
us? Do we uphold the authorities? God
set them there. Do we love one another?
We need unity and God will pour out. His
blessings upon us. War seems inevitable
in our land today. It has to come whether
we want it or not. Things are moving
more swiftly than even I can realize. Faith
seems to be waning among the Saints, let
us ask God’s blessing in what we do.
Those that overcome will sit down in our
Father’s kingdom. It is not the mission of
the Latter-day Saints to shed blood. When
the call was made for the five hundred for
the Mormon Battalion President Young said
if they responded not one should be slain,
nor should they shed blood.” Urged the
sisters to have their patriarchal blessings,
she read her’s only a few days ago that was
given by Patriarch Hyrum Smith, and it
was such a blessing to her.
	Sister Waterfall said she prized the teach-
ings she received at these meetings, spoke
of her patriarchal blessing and bore her tes-
timony to the truth of the Gospel. 
	Sister Lydia D. Alder spoke on the words
“They also serve who only stand and wait,”
and bore her testimony.
	Sister Robinson also bore a strong testi-
mony and desired to be faithful.
	Sister Carrington bore testimony to the
work of the Lord and thanked Him for the
Gospel.
	Sister Bullock felt overjoyed to feel the
spirit of this meeting, felt to praise God for
all His blessings, testified to the answering
of prayers and told of a dream she had
which comforted her. Singing “Guide us
O Thou Great Jehovah.”
	Two or three sisters bore their testimony
and Sister J. C. Howe said, “May the Spir-
it of God never leave us to ourselves. We
have listened to the testimonies of the young
the aged and the middle-aged. On the 6th
of April forty-nine years ago, I entered the
waters of baptism. My parents were good
and lived up to the knowledge they had.

[Column 2]
feel grateful to them for the manner in
which they taught me the scriptures. The
Gospel is more, precious to me now than
ever, the world and its pleasures will all
pass away, but the love of God endureth for
ever. Charity covereth a multitude of sins,
thinketh no evil, but is altogether lovely.”
	Sister Rogers said she had always wanted
to come to the 14th ward meetings. “I do
not live here, but I feel the good influence
in this meeting. I feel to bless the young
sister who spoke of her affliction and trusted
her heavenly Father.” Bore her testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, desired to be
faithful and prepared, spoke of the Temple
duties and thought we had better be ready
before the call came.
	Sister L. L. Greene Richards also spoke
of. the wedding garments. If we have the
Spirit of the Lord we will have our wed-
ding garments ready. Spoke of the Spirit
of God in the Temple and said it is possible
to have the Spirit of the Lord that we will
make no mistakes, even in our temporal
affairs. This would enable us never to
make mistakes. Asked the blessing of the
Lord on all the sisters.
	Sister Eliza Reddington said she had at-
tended these meetings for years but had
never before risen, but desired to be faithful.
	Sister Fletcher said she went to the hos-
pital for treatment, and some brethren
blessed her, said she should be calm and the
angels should overlook the operation, said
she had these blessings for her good. She
wanted to serve the Lord and keep His
commandments and desired the faith of the
sisters. Since she went into the Temple
she was better, her arm was better. Her
prayers had been answered, she desired to
serve God and that her children might also.
	President Horne said God would bless all
who had testified this afternoon. Announc-
ed the Relief Society conference on Tues-
day 5, in the Assembly hall at 10 a. m. and
2 p. m., also the conference on Wednesday
6.  Adjourned for two weeks. Singing
Doxology. Benediction Sister Julia Howe.
		LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


R. S. REPORT

WAYNE STAKE
	The Relief Society conference was held
Feb 28, 1898, in the Thurber Relief Society
hall. Meeting called to order by Counselor
Mary E. Hanks. Singing “Prayer is the
souls sincere desire.” Prayer by Patriarch
E. H. Blackburn. Singing “O Lord of
hosts we now envoke.” Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and accepted. 
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks said she was
pleased to meet, with the brethren and sis-
ters in Relief Society conference, had en-
joyed a spiritual feast at the Stake confer-
ence and her heart burned with love for the
Gospel. Desired to see the young people
step forward in the Church and prayed God
to bless the sisters in their labors.
	Loa, Thurber and Grover branches were
represented by their respective presidents.
Teasdale, Cainsville, Aldrich and Giles were
also reported by their representatives; all
were doing good work and were energetic
in their labors.
	Stake President Jane S. Coleman was
pleased with the reports given and felt to
thank the Lord for the everlasting Gospel.
Bore testimony to the gift of healing and
was desirous for the sisters to be encouraged
in their labors of love. At our meetings


we should make choice of elevating sub-
jects, such as virtue, charity, etc.; also to
see that our records are kept in good con-
dition. Spoke in very appreciative terms
of what the Thurber Relief Society board
had accomplished the past year. Through
their energy and the assistance of the
brethren they have built a fine brick build-
ing on the new town site.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth was gratified
to have so many of the brethren meet with
us, for where the Priesthood are there the
Spirit of the Lord is in greater abundance.
We should try to put in practice the good
teachings we hear from time to time. Ex-
horted all to keep the word of wisdom and
set a good example to the young people.
	Bishop M. W. Mansfield was proud of
the Relief Society in Thurber, they were
energetic in their labors. Said the instruc-
tions given had come from the proper spirit,
and said that we should apply the word of
wisdom so that our bodies might be healthy
and strong.
	Patriarch E. H. Blackburn was pleased
to meet with the sisters and partake of the
good spirit in their conference. He had
labored fifty-five years in the Church and
had never tired of working for the Lord.
God’s blessing must be upon the Relief
Society, because it was organized by His
Prophet.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “O, My Father.” Benediction by
Bishop W. E. Hanks.
	Afternoon session: After the usual open-
ing exercises the statistical report was read,
President Jane S. Coleman explained the
expense fund, Counselor Mary E. Hanks
presented the officers of the Relief Society,
Sisters Leah Blackburn, Sarah A. Robison,
Eliza Brinkerhoff, Mary E. Gordon, Mary
Bullard and Maria Jakeman all bore testi-
mony and exhorted the sisters to perform
their duties. Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth
made timely remarks.
	Bishop W. E. Hanks said he had been
edified by the instructions given, our object
is to teach the young people that which we
pratice ourselves. We have got to be ex-
amplary in our lives, we have a great mis-
sion to perform.
	Counselor M. E. Hanks said we cannot
live without the blessings of the Lord, we
should make progress in the Church, the
Lord does not require anything of us that
we are not able to accomplish.
	President Jane S. Coleman made re-
marks that were encouraging and appreciat-
ed by those present.
	Patriarch E. H. Blackburn said he could
look back and remember when the Relief
Society was not in the condition it is today,
said death was brought into the world for a
wise purpose, and closed with blessings for
the sisters.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing “When shall we all meet again.”
Benediction by Elder George Stringam.
		ANNIE O. COLEMAN, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

LAURA FITZGERALD NEBEKER.
	In this city on Monday Feb. 7th last, a faithful
mother in Israel, Sister Laura Fitzgerald Nebeker,
departed this life. She was a native of Pennsyl-
vania, a pioneer of Utah and a faithful consistent
Latter-day Saint. Few persons combine intense
spirituality and practical ideas of life to the de-
gree she did. Her faith in the Gospel and its 
promises was unswerving, and in matters of prin-
ciple she was most uncompromising. In such
matters her acquaintances always knew where to

[Column 2]
look for “Mother Nebeker.” For years she was
a member of the Relief Society of her ward, ever 
since it was first organized, and as one of its 
teachers was ever zealous and active in its affairs,
till failing strength prevented her. She was a
subscriber of the “Exponent” and much enjoyed
reading its pages until physical weakness pre-
vented. She was ever earnest in teaching her
children the principles of the Gospel, and on her
death bed she bore an impressive testimony to
its truth, and fervently urged them to follow her in
obeying its requirements, and to lay hold on its 
promises. Her mental faculties were clear up to  
her last sleep, which merged into death.
		CARRY SMITH, Sec. 22nd ward R.S.
ELIZA CARNNAGE BARNETT. 
	With loving remembrance we r[-]cord the death 
of our aged and respected sister, Eliza Carnnage
Barnett, who departed this life Feb. 12, 1898, at
the age of seventy-eight years. She was at the
home of her daughter, Emma Wright, who lives
near Ogden. She was born in Staffordshire,
England in 1820; was married to John W Barnett
in Birmingham, England, in 1840, joined the
Church soon after and came with her husband
and family to America in 1854. They stopped in
Philadelphia for five years, where the Elders were
always made welcome. They came to Richmond,
Cache Co., in 1863 where they spent the remainder
of their lives. Her husbacd died in 1878.
	When the Relief Society was organized in 1868
Sister Barnett was chosen and set apart as second
counselor to the president, which office she faith-
fully filled a number of years. She was the
mother of eleven children, ten girls and one boy,
eight of whom are dead. She had fifty-one
grandchildren, fifty-two great grandchildren and
one great great grandchild. The funeral services
over the remains were held in the Richmond
meeting house Feb. 15, 1898.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, We acknowledge her loss and faithful
performance of all duties, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we sympathize with her family
and friends in their great loss. Be it further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be recorded
in the Relief Society record, a copy presented to
the family and another sent to the “Woman's Ex-
ponent” for publication.
Verse by Hannah Brower:
	Sister Barne[-]t thou hast left us,
		Gone to join that lovely choir,
	Of thy kindred gone before thee,
		Far beyond the world of care.
				JULIA PETTY,
				LYDIA PURNHAM,
				ELIZA C HOBSON.
						Committee.
ELIZA EMMA THOMAS.
	With loving remembrance we record the death
of Sister Eliza Emma Thomas, who departed this
life March 8, 1898, at Richmond, Cache Co. She
was the daughter of Samuel and Phebe Adams,
was born in Rounds, Northamptonshire, England,
joined the Church in the same place, came to
Utah in 1868 and was married to Martin Thomas
January 9, 1871, in Ogden, Utah. The family came 
to Richmond soon after and Sister Thomas held
the position of teacher in the Relief Society for
a number of years, doing a great amount of good
and always willing to help the sick and destitute.
She leaves a husband, eight children, six grand-
children and a host of friends to mourn her loss.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, We acknowledge her loss, and readi-
ness at all times to give a helping hand, there-
fore be it
	Resolved, That we sympathize with her family
and friends. Be it further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be recorded 
in the Relief Society record, a copy sent to the 
bereaved husband and another sent to the
“Woman’s Exponent” for publication.
	These verses were composed upon the death of
Sister Thomas by Hannah Brower:
	Gently sleeping is our mother
		Eliza Thomas loved and fair.
	Taken from this scene of action,
		To her Heavenly Parents care.

	Mother thou went kind and gentle,
		Tender, patient, good and true.
	Thou hast won the hearts of many,
		And a crown thou hast in view.

[Column 3]
	Left thy husband, sons and daughters
		On the weary earth below,
	But thou art gone to join the ransomed,
		And thy robes are pure as snow.

	Mother we expect to meet thee 
		When we do the work begun, 
	And we hope thy kind examp[-]e,
		Will become a beacon sun. 
				JULIA PETTY,
				LYDIA BURNHAM.
				ELIZA C. HOBSON,
						Committee.


MARY R. GOODLIFFE

	Mary Robbins Goodliffe, daughter of
Edmond and Agnes McAllister and beloved
wife of Bishop Arnold Goodliffe of Snow-
ville, was born in Manchester, England,
June 27, 1840, and died in Snowville March
8, 1898, aged fifty-seven years, eight months
and twelve days.
	Aunt Mary as she was called by all, from
the “hoary headed to the lisping toddler”—
was baptized a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when
she was eight years old, crossed the plains
with the Milo Andrus company and arrived
in Salt Lake City Utah in 1855. While en-
route for Utah Aunt Mary was stricken
with the fatal disease of cholera, at Mormon
Grove. There the great faith in the Gospel
and its ordinances which has ever since
been emblematic of her life showed itself. 
Although her eyes were glazed and set in
death, when asked if she had faith and 
wanted to live she nodded her head in the
affirmative, was administered to and in-
stantly healed under the hands of Elder
Israel Barlow (now deceased) of Bountiful.
	Her father died in St Louis, her dear 
mother followed shortly after their arrival
in Salt Lake and thus she was left alone—
no home, no friend but God to dry the or-
phan’s tear and suppress the heart broken
moan. She passed through the hard times 
of famine and distress which the Saints
endured in this early day, and to add to her
troubles fell into the hands of a woman who
treated her most unkindly. She became
acquainted with, and on August 16, 1857.
became the wife of Arnold Goodliffe. They
took part in the move of 1858, and after the
return of the Saints settled in Kaysville.
	At the time of the settlement of Cache 
Valley she and her husband went with a
company and helped to settle Franklin.
While the Fort was building, one side being
open, the brethren were all away in the
mountains except an old man by the name
of Garner, forty Indians headed by “Weber
Tom” rode into the Fort and threatened to
kill every woman and child. Brother
Garner knew “Weber Tom” and with
Aunt Mary made a parley with them, told
them they had better have some dinner first,
and to the great joy of both, the Indians
agreed to this. Aunt Mary rallied the
fainting, frightened and screaming sisters,
and they with Brother Garner gathered all
the bread and buttermilk they could muster.
While the Indians were enjoying the repast
the brethren returned, and thus the massa-
cre was averted. It went all over the val-
ley that Aunt Mary had whipped forty 
Indians with bread and buttermilk, thus
proving the wisdom and divinity of the
counsel of our beloved President Young,
“Feed, don’t fight the Indian.”
	Aunt Mary afterwards moved to Logan, 
her husband having been called there by
Elder Ezra T. Benson. When Apostle C. 
C. Rich moved to Bear Lake valley Sister


Goodliffe with her husband was among the
first settlers there, settling where Blooming-
ton ward now stands. While yet in camp
there with only a bowery overhead and their
wagon boxos for houses, while tho men
folks were away getting logs for dwelling
houses a fire broke out in camp. In the
excitement of such an occurrence some of
the sisters forgot their sleeping babes in
Brother Groodliffe’s wagon box. When the
cry was made for the babes Aunt Mary
with a courage born of God, sprang into
the now burning boxes, handed out the
babies, then threw out several cans of
powder which were already so hot that her
hands were blistered. Brother Goodliffe
and wife lost all they possessed.
	After a stay of four years in Bear Lake
they moved to Malad City. Here Aunt
Mary labored as a teacher in the Relief
Society from its organization. In 1876 her
husband was called to the office of Bishop to
preside over Curlew valley where the fam-
ily then moved to, and where the town of
Snowville (named in honor of Apostle
Lorenzo Snow) now stands. Here Aunt
Mary was called to the presidency of the
Relief Society at its organization in 1878,
which office she filled with honor and dig-
nity up to the time of her death and as one
of the speakers at the funeral remarked,
“Her place will be hard to fill.” Aunt
Mary’s home has always been a wel-
come retreat not only to her friends but
even to her enemies (of the Gospel) where-
ever she has dwelt, as hundreds can testify.
	The funeral services were held in the
school house April 14th, the procession 
forming at her house two and a half blocks
away, the Relief Society at the head, the re-
mains of Aunt Mary being lovingly and
reverently borne by her six nephews followed
by the family and friends. The speakers
were one and all eulogistic in their praises
of Aunt Mary’s virtues, good deeds and of
her undying faith in and unwavering obe-
dience to the Gospel in its fulness. The
Lord for a wise purpose had denied her
children but she was most truly a Mother
in Israel. Truly could she say “I have
fought my way through, I have finished
the work Thou didst give me to do,” and
will from her Lord receive the glad words,
“Well and faithfully done, enter into my
rest and sit down on my throne.”
				ESTHER GOODLIFFE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CLARA BARTON IN TAMPA,
FLORIDA.

	ON the eventful 9th of April when Con-
sul General Lee and the many imperilled
Americans took leave of Havana, Clara
Barton with her assistants and corps of
trained nurses, also left that city for Tampa,
Florida, and here will be their headquaters
until called elsewhere by “war alarms.”
	They have taken commodious furnished
apartments on Plant Avenue, near the bay,
and look after their own needs, having for
the time being a comparative rest from the
work of relief of the suffering to which they
have devoted themselves. Miss Barton has,
however, been in conference with Mayor
Gillette and Mr. Edward Manrara of this
city, regarding the feeding of such needy
Cubans as are not supplied at the Manrara
kitchen. For months this Mr. Manrara, a
wealthy Cuban citizen, has provided meals
for his unemployed countrymen and their
families in Ybor City, as the fourth ward of
Tampa is called, where reside 8,000 to


10,000 of these people. In West Tampa
and other parts of the city are others who
have not been so systematically helped. It
is in aid of these and many other refugees
from the islands that Miss Barton is inter-
ested.
STATEMENT MADE BY HER TO A REPRESEN-
TATIVE OF THE LOCAL PRESS.
	‘‘The American National Red Cross has
been in the field of Cuban relief several
weeks, acting under the civil constitutional
clause of its treaty, which empowers it by
consent of the nations, to work in the relief
of suffering by great national calamities, ir-
respective of war.
	“The original treaty of Geneva provides
only for relief in war. The extension of
the provisions of the treaty to include other
great disasters, was a special concession
made to the American Red Cross, upon its
accession to the treaty, and is known as the
American Amendment.
	“The singular coincidence now presents
itself of both provisions of the treaty being
called into action in the same field. The
Red Cross has distributed the food sent by
the people of America to the suffering recon-
centrados as long as such action was admiss-
ible. Now that war is imminent and our
guns prepare to sweep the island, it be-
comes the duty of the Red Cross to retire
from the threatening field and place itself in
position behind the guns and wait. When
men fall by the sword it will faithfully and
fearlessly fulfill its mission of relief in war,
caring for all, friend and foe alike.
	“Let it be well understood by all Ameri-
cans that their Red Cross has not left the
field, any more than have the great waiting
monitors in the harbor of Key West. It
has withdrawn to its proper position, and
waits its call to duty. The Red Cross in
military service never precedes, but follows
the army and obeys implicitly the orders of
the general in command. Our commanders
will all understand this, and it is to avoid
confusion in the minds of the people that I
make these explanations.”
								Ex.


TESTIMONIAL.

	ON Monday April 11, the sisters of the
Relief Society of the 22nd ward met in their
Society hall for the purpose of presenting
Sister Olive Kimball with a token of the
love and respect in which they held her,
previous to her departure to Arizona with
her husband, Elder Andrew Kimball, to
take charge of the mission there.
	After meeting had been opened in the
usual manner, Sister Rachel Whipple, presi-
dent of the Society, made some very en-
couraging remarks, blessing them on their
mission and wishing them God speed. Sis-
ter Emma Brown then presented them with
a gold pen and souvenir silver spoon with
the Temple engraved inside the bowl.
Elder Andrew Kimball gave a very grati-
fying description of his mission which he
had just commenced. Sister Jennie Hyde
paid a loving tribute of affection towards
them. Sister Elizabeth Nebeker spoke
feelingly of the duty they were undertaking,
wishing them every success, after which an
impromptu program was rendered. Mrs.
Nellie Druce Pugsley rendered several musi-
cal pieces in her own beautiful style, after
which the sisters enjoyed a sumptuous re-
past, making a very enjoyable time.
							[COM.]


Save Your Money!
And when you get a do[-]lar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
Teaches two classes yearly in Ob.
stetrics and Nursing, beginning just
after the spring and fall Conference
Special opportunities and prices are
given to Societies sending students,
and also to those who have had
previous study.
	For full particulars please com-
municate either personally or by
letter with
ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D
75 Center Street, Salt Lake City.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.


