[WomansExponent | Vol31 | 1902 | Unknown | Issue: 1 | Title: TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY, NAUVOO, JUNE | Author: Unknown]

TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY, NAUVOO, JUNE
	9TH, 1842. REPORTED BY MISS E. R.
	SNOW.
	President Joseph Smith opened the meet-
ing by prayer and then addressed the congre-
gation on the design of the institution. Said
it is no matter how fast the society in-
creases, if all the members are virtuous;
that we must be as particular with regard
to the character of members now as when
the society first started; that sometimes per-
sons wish to crowd themselves into a soci-
ety of this kind when they do not intend
to pursue the ways of purity and righteous-
ness, as if the society would be a shelter to
them in their iniquity.
	Objections having been previously made
against Sister—, they were removed;
after which President Joseph Smith con-
tinued his address; said he was going
to preach mercy. Suppose that Jesus Christ
and holy angels should object to us on friv-
olous things, what would become of us?
We must be merciful to one another and
overlook small things.
	Respecting the reception of Sister—,
President Joseph Smith said, "It grieves
me that there is no fuller fellowship
if one member suffer all feel it; by un-
ion of feeling we obtain power with God.
Christ said He came to call sinners to re-
pentance, and save them. Christ was con-
demned by the self-righteous Jews because
he took sinners into his society; he took
them upon the principle that they repented
of their sins. It is the object of this soci-
ety to reform persons, not to take those
who are corrupt and foster them in their
wickedness, but if they repent we are
bound to take them, and by kindness sancti-
fy and cleanse them from all unrighteous-
ness by our influence in watching over
them. Nothing will have such influence
over people as the fear of being disfellow-
shiped by so goodly a society as this. Then


take Sister—— as Jesus received sinners in-
to His bosom. Sister——, in the name of
the Lord, I now make you free. Nothing
is so much calculated to lead people to for-
sake sin as to take them by the hand, and
watch over them with tenderness. When
persons manifest the least kindness or love
towards me, O what power it has over my
mind, while the opposite course has a ten-
dency to harrow up all the harsh feelings
and depress the human mind.
	‘It is one evidence that men are un-
acquainted with the principles of godliness
to behold the contraction of affectionate
feelings and lack of charity in the world.
The power and glory of godliness is spread
out on a broad principle to throw nut the
mantle of charity. God does not look up-
on sin with allowance, but when men have
sinned, there must be allowance made for
them.
	“All the religious world is boasting of
righteousness it is the doctrine of the devil
to retard the human mind, and hinder our
progress by filling our minds with self-
righteousness. The nearer we get to our
Heavenly Father, the more we are disposed
to look with compassion on perishing souls;
we feel that we want to take them upon
our shoulders, and cast their sins behind
our backs. My talk is intended for all this
society if you would have God have mercy
on you, have mercy on one another.”
	President Smith then referred them to
the conduct of the Savior when he was
taken and crucified, etc.
	He then made a promise in the name of
the Lord, saying that that soul who has
righteousness enough to ask God in the
secret place for life, every day of their
lives, shall live to three score years and
ten. We must walk uprightly all the day
long. How glorious are. the principles of
righteousness! we are full of selfishness;
the devil flatters us that we are very right-
eous when we are feeding on the faults of
others. We can only live by worshiping
out God; all must do it for themselves
none can do it for another. How mild the
Savior dealt with Peter, saying, “When
thou art converted, strengthen thy breth-
ren.” At another time He said to him,
“Lovest thou me?” and having received
Peter’s reply He said, “Feed my sheep.”
If the sisters love the Lord, let them feed
the sheep, and not destroy them. How oft
have wise men and women sought to dic-
tate Brother Joseph by saying, “Oh, if I
were Brother Joseph I would do this and
that” but if they were in Brother Joseph’s
shoes, they would find that men or women
could not be compelled into the kingdom of
God, but must be dealt with in long-suffer-
ing, and at last we shall save them. The
way to keep all the Saints together and
to keep the work rolling, is to wait with all
long-suffering, till God shall bring such
characters to justice. There should be no
license for sin, but mercy should go hand
in hand with reproof.
	“Sisters of this society shall there be
strife among you? I will not have it. 
You must repent and get the love of God.
Away with self-righteousness. The best
measure or principle to briug the poor to
repentance is to administer to their wants.
The Ladies’ Relief Society is not only to
relieve, the poor, but to save souls.”
	President Smith then said that he would
give a lot of land to the society, by deeding
it to the treasurer, that the society may
build a house for the poor. He also said he

[Column 2]
would give a house frame, not finished, and
that Brother Cahoon will move it on to the
aforesaid lot, and the society can pay him by
giving orders on the store that it was a
good plan to set those to work who are
owing widows, and then make an offset etc.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this city, April 3, 1903, commenc-
ing at 10 a. m., president Bathsheba W.
Smith presiding. On the stand with the
president was her first counselor, Sister
Annie T. Hyde, Secretary Emmeline B.
Wells, Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams,
President M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt
Lake Stake, President Susan Grant, of
Davis Stake, President Rebecca Standring,
Alpine Stake, also Sisters Romania B. Pratt,
Julina L. Smith, Emily S. Richards, Phebe
Y. Beatie and Annie Wells Cannon of the
General Board.
	Meeting opened with the congregation
singing “Now let us rejoice in the day of
salvation.” Prayer by Sister Susan Grant.
Singing, “High on the mountain top.”
	Secretary E. B. Wells called the roll of
the General Officers, the Board, missionaries
and presidents of Stakes, showing a good-
ly number present.
	President B. W. Smith then made an
opening address. She was pleased to see
so many present, thought them very good
looking, they were working in a very good
cause; the Relief Society was the grandest
of organizations, she knew they were doing
a good work and were getting some help
from the mothers’ work and nurses’ class,
she wanted the young mothers and young
grandmothers to take hold and urged them
to join the Relief Society, even if they did
belong to the Young Ladies. President
Joseph F. Smith had said the mothers’ work
must be under the Relief Society president
and she must have help if necessary. Sister
Smith then said, “Be good to the poor and
needy, look after the dead and continue
in these good works; be truthful, honest
and pure, and teach your children to do
right.” She longed to hear the reports of
the presidents, it was always a feast, and
the time seemed always too short; she re-
joiced in the Gospel and in all its good
works.
	Secretary was requested to call the Stake
presidents from a distance.
	Sister Elizabeth Hardy reported the East-
ern district of Alberta, a very excellent re-
port, granaries in every ward except Sterl-
ing, and they were building one, the gran-
aries were full of wheat; they had a meet-
ing house and a nice large school house
and about $10.00, they had been holding
meetings in private houses until lately, but
now held them in the schoolhouses, the sis-
ter felt diffident about reporting, as this
was her first time.
	Cassia Stake			they were
striving to do the best they could, the set-
tlements were scattered oyer about 700
miles around the Stake, they had consider-
able grain on hand and the branches were
in good working order, in Oakley a new
meeting house had been built and paid for;
in the 3rd ward the sisters had a fine gran-
ary; the Stake officers visited just as often
as they could considering the circumstances.
	Fremont reported by the secretary, Sister
Sarah A. Barnes, they had visited every
ward and all were doing well, they own six

[Column 2]
or seven granaries and one in course of
erection, they had good meetings and good
average attendance and seemed to have the
spirit of their calling.
	Counselor Elizabeth Pugh represented
Kanab Stake, their’s was a very hard Stake
to visit, it took five days through snow and
mud, they had good sisters, but they were
so far from headquarters that perhaps they
did not do all they should, had been quar-
antined on account of small pox, which had
been a hindrance to their regular work.
	President Louisa B. Benson spoke for
Oneida Stake, said they were united with
the presidency of the Stake, the officers of
the Stake meet quarterly, the wards semi-
monthly, devoted a part of the time in the
meeting to the mothers’ work, hoped and
believed this would encourage the young
sisters to join the society, they made the
meetings as interesting as possible, had the
sisters in the meetings join the lectures in
the subjects and that helped to awaken an
interest.
	President Martha Hammond, San Juan
Stake, thought they were doing very well
under the circumstances, their treasury was
low and the wheat question rather behind
as they had not raised much wheat of late
years but were more prosperous this year;
she had not been able to visit much but
through correspondence had been kept in-
formed of the work, she had been excused
by President Lyman from attending the
Stake conference but hoped hereafter to be
able to do better.
	President Sophia Rigby, Teton Stake.
They had eight branches in the lower
valley and two in Jackson, they had visited
those in Jackson this last winter, the Stake
had only been organized one year last fall,
but had a goodly number of sisters and a
good average attendance in summer time,
but in winter it was difficult to hold meet-
ings, they were trying to arouse an inter-
est in building, there was only one ward
that owned its meeting house yet; the sis-
ters feel that by attending to their duties
the Lord blesses them; they had collected
fifty dollars on the dollar donation for the
Woman’s Building. “We have 182 members
in the lower valley, but do not know the
number in Jackson; we feel the work is en-
joyable and that we will be blessed in going
on in our labors.”
	Sister Maggie C. Hull sang very beauti-
fully a soprano solo, “Where He May Lead
I Will Follow.”
	President Eliza M. Oram, Pocatello Stake.
She had visited each ward in the Stake,
twice last year and was now on the eve of
visiting again, the Stake had been organ-
zed five years, they were all poor, but
there were some of the loveliest women that
ever lived; and she knew they were trying
to do as well as possible under the circum-
stances, she then gave some statistics, and
also said they were united in their labors,
held Stake officers meeting once a month,
their Stake president, Brother Hyde, met
with them, she had always taken the ad-
vice of the General Board and had the
assistance of their Stake president, Brother
Hyde.
	Woodruff Stake, President Jane Barlow
Muir, they had one society in the valley
organized about six months, that had not
yet been visited, this one society would
take a week to visit on account of the dis-
tance. “When the weather settles we shall
visit all the wards, four of these are among
the mining districts, but we find lovely sis-


ters there, full of faith and energy; the peo-
ple are coming and going all the time, so it
is rather discouragiug because when the
sisters move away there has to be a reorgan-
ization, yet they do finely. I feel badly
that I cannot give more time to this work,
but I have a family of little ones and can-
not do more. We are helping the Bishops
to build meeting houses, and in this the
sisters have done remarkably well, and we
help the poor and the sick, we hope to be
able to do more in the future than we have
in the past."
	Box Elder Stake, President Susannah P.
Booth, they were in good condition, they
traveled with the brethren in visiting the
Stake, it took a week to get around, they
had seven or eight thousand bushels of
grain laid up, she felt they had as good and
as faithful sisters in Box Elder as could be
found anywhere, her report was an excel-
lent one in every respect.
	President Williamina Erickson of North
Sanpete Stake, they visited all the branches
twice a year, but recently had to miss some
on account of sickness, believed all were
trying to live their religion and do the best
they could. "We have but one sisters' hall
in the Stake but two others are in process of
erection." She hoped to receive instruction
and be enabled to go forward in the good
work.
	President Rebecca L. Rawlins, Benson
Stake, gave some statistics, stated that the
poor were well cared for and the Bishop
said they could not do without the Relief
Society, referred to having changed their
old wheat for new to good advantage,
mothers' work had been started in all the
wards and were very interesting, President
of the Stake and Bishops had visited them
and were delighted, she considered it an
honor to be associated with our president
and associates.
	President Christina Sorenson, Sevier
Stake, said all the wards in that Stake were
in good condition, they had held confer-
ence on March 21, and all were represented,
they had three halls and seven granaries in
that Stake, hold four conferences in a year,
changing the places to accomodate the
wards, have mothers' work in some
places.
	Sister Margaret C. Hull sang a solo, "O
Come Unto Me."
	Benediction. Adjourned until 2 p. m.
