[WomansExponent | Vol31 | 1902 | Unknown | Issue: 1 | Title: MRS. GATES RETURN. | Author: Unknown]

MRS. GATES RETURN.
	Mrs Susa Y. Gates who went to Copen-
hagen to attend the Executive meeting of
the International Council, returned home
the last of August. She had a most inter-
esting trip while abroad. In Copenhagen
she was the honored guest at many gather-
ings. She addressed the Anglo Danish
Club in that city, the largest and most
fashionable woman’s club, and on other
occasions had rare opportunities of speak
ing in public to appreciative audiences. She
visited the branches of the Relief Society
there, and the new Latter-day Saints’
meeting house that was recently dedicated.
	As the representative of Mrs. Sewall, the

[Column 2]
president of the International Council she
was entitled to courtesies from the most
distinguished ladies of that august body of
women assembled to transact Council busi-
ness. Mrs. Gates read the address of the
pre-ident, (Mrs. Sewall) which occupied
one entire day.
	After leaving Copenhagen she was the
guest of Mme. Chapponiere at her summer
residence on Lake Geneva, where she en-
joyed the most generous hospitality, and
was among the most charming scenery of
that delightful and picturesque country.
While there Mrs. Gates, accompanied by
Elder Leigh Young, her cousin, visited the
Castle of Chillon and spent a day among its
ruins and surroundings. She was also
present at the Coronation of King Edward,
and soon after that wonderful event sailed
for home. Mrs F. M. Lyman was her com
panion in crossing the Atlantic on her
homeward voyage.
	En route westward Mrs. Gates visited
Mrs Sewall at her home in Indianapolis
and made a report of her work at the Coun-
cil sessions.
	After arriving at her home in Provo, she
addressed the congregation on the Sabbath
day in the Tabernacle there. Sunday eve-
ning, September 6, she spoke in the
Eighteenth Ward chapel to a crowded
house.
	Thursday afternoon, September 12, at 4
p. m., Mrs. Gates made a report of the trip
in the parlor of the Bee Hive House to the
General Board of the Relief Society and
the Young Ladies Association. The First
Presidency of the Church were present and
listened with the greatest interest.
	Mrs. Lucy B. Young (Mrs Gates’ mother)
her daughter and husband, Prof. John
Widstoe, were present and a few other
special friends. Miss Emma Lucy Gates
sang at the opening of the exercises and
President A. H. Lund offered prayer. The
report occupied more than an hour. Brief
remarks were afterwards made by General
President of the Relief Society, Mrs. Bath-
sheba W. Smith, and Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne, President of the Relief Society of
the Salt Lake Stake of Zion. The General
President of the Y. L. N. M. I. A., Mrs
Elmina S. Taylor, was present and was in-
vited to speak, but, as she was not feeling
well, excused herself. President John R.
Winder made a few remarks and was fol-
lowed by President Joseph F. Smith, who
spoke eloquently on the woman subject
and what had been accomplished, which
made a deep impression upon all present.
	The hymn, “Come, come ye Saints,”
was rendered, Miss Gates at the piano and
with her melodious voice joining in the
singing. The benediction was pronounced
by Mrs. Maria Young Dougall, first couns-
elor in the Young Ladies Association.
	The members of the General Board ex-
pressed themselves deeply gratified with
the report made by Mrs. Gates of her trip
abroad in the interest of the International
Council, which means the furtherance of
woman’s advancement in all the world.


