[WomansExponent | Vol31 | 1902 | Unknown | Issue: 1 | Title: MAUD E. SARGENT. | Author: Unknown]

			MAUD E. SARGENT.


[picture of female students]
Jessie Paskett	Maud Neeley	Lulu Bates	Cora Ashton	Minnie Healey	Alice Tate	Mary Wright	Louise Kunzler
Nellie Worthen	Olga Reiser	Vandla Crofton	Laura Thacheray	Josephine Gruell	Rebecca Gustaveson Emma Lawrence

	We present in this issue some more pictures of groups of lady students in the Latter day Saints University. The
movement for both the higher and practical education of women that is characteristic of the present age, has hitherto
been referred to in these columns, as has also the attitude of this institution in forming this movement. The tendencies
already shown by this institution to whatever makes for the advancement of our young ladies in all those studies that
give true culture and refinement and impart usefulness in the home, has led us to make these observations. The home,
in the view of the Latter-day Saints, is a divine institution, which is to continue forever, if rightly formed and honorably
maintained. No culture can be too generous, no learning too high, no acquirements too good, for use in the home. The
girls of our Church schools will no doubt have advantages peculiar to our view of the heavenly character of our earthly
homes, and we once more congratulate them on this fact.


[Column 1]
ITEMS ABOUT ART.
	It is pleasant to note that the women
artists of the State are recognized in the
State Board of Art appointed by Governor
Wells and the Senate of the State Legisla-
ture.
	At the recent election in the governing
board of the Utah Art Institute, Miss
Mary Teasdel was elected president, Mrs.
Edna Wells Sloan secretary, and Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne treasurer—all places
of trust and requiring executive ability.
The other officers are W. E. Ware, vice-
president, H. L. A. Culmer, J. T. Har-
wood and George H. Taggart members of
the governing board with the officers

[Column 2]
named. Mr. Taggart, Edwin Evans and
John Hafen comprise the Exhibition Com-
mittee, and Mr. Evans, Mrs. Horne and
Harry Stuttard have the appointment to
the Lectureship Committee. Mrs. Julia E.
Rawlins, Mrs. T. Hills and Mrs. Emma J.
McVicker have charge of the “Alice Art
Collection.”
	Mr. Stuttard has just returned from
New York where he has been studying
for three years, and is appointed Art In-
structor at the Agricultural College, Lo-
gan, in place of Miss Louise Richards, who
has resigned to go to Paris this month,
where she will pursue for two years the
study of art.

[Column 3]
	Miss Rachel Edwards and Miss Priscella
Smith will leave for Paris with Dr. H. J.
Richards’ party on tho 16th of August.
Mr. and Mrs. J. T. Harwood and children,
Mrs W. J. Richards and daughters, Blanche,
Louise and Lily Richards, and others will
be of the party.
	At the last meeting of the U. S. D. R.,
on suggestion of Dr. Benedict, a dozen
sheets were provided by the society to sup-
ply the needs of the National Guard Hospi-
tal cots.
	Miss Mary Teasdel was the second
Utah woman to have work exhibited at
the Salon. Three miniatures and an oil
portrait were also received; the miniature


was accepted at the Paris Exposition—A
rare honor. One of Miss Teasdel’s pic-
tures, “French Peasants Knitting,” was
bought by the Institute of Art for the col-
lection of paintings.
	The prizes to be awarded are as follows:
	1. A bronze medal of honor will be
given for the best work of art in the exhi-
bition. Open to resident and non resident
artists. This medal may be withheld if in
the opinion of the awarding committee no
work exhibited is of sufficient merit.
	2 The State prize, $300.00, will be
given for the best painting by a Utah resi-
dent artist, the painting to become a part 
of the Alice Art Collection.
	3. Institute prizes, open to resident
artists:
	$50.00 for the best water color, the
painting with its frame to become part of
the Alice Art Collection. Honorable men-
tion for the second best water color.
	Z. C. M. I. offers $25.00 for the best
plan for country home, including house,
barns and pens, to cost about $3000.
	Deseret National bank offers $25.00 for
best design for lace collar to be executed
in Utah silk. The sego lily must enter
into the design.
	The Young Woman’s Journal offers
$20.00 for design for book cover to be used
to cover the Journal.
	Zion’s Savings Bank offers $10.00 for best
study in clay or plaster from life by a 
student of the State.
	W. S. McCornick offers $10.00 for the
best study in color by a student of the
State.
	Honorable mention second best.
	Mrs. Solomon Siegel offers $10.00 for the
best design for silk fabric
	$10 00 for best still life study.
	Mr. H. L A. Culmer offers $10.00 as
student’s prize for High School.
	Miss Mary Teasdel offers $10.00 as
student’s prize for University.
	$5 00 will be given for best design in
each of the following lines of art:
	Poster, wood carving, wrought metal,
pyrography, tiling, wall paper.
	$5.00 for best group of three photo-
graphs.
					A. M. H.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall, June 21, 1902,
President Bathsheba W Smith presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “Arise, O
glorious Zion.” Prayer by Sister Frances
Smith. Singing, “Guide us, O Thou
Great Jehovah.” Minutes of last meeting
read and accepted.
	President B. W. Smith then addressed
the sisters. Urged them to live in love
and union with one another, said mothers
should teach their children the principles
of the Gospel and how to live them. She
enjoyed working in the Temple.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon said that we
had much to do, urged all to set a good
example at all times.
	Sister Stevenson then explained the nec-
essity of the mothers teaching their chil-
dren the way to do right, and not so much
time spent in society circles of life; that
mothers should not be afraid to tell their
children they love them, but implant love
and peace in their hearts and teach them to
be kind to one another and to set a good
example. Sister Margaret Sharp felt to

[Column 2]
regret the loss of their president, Sister
Hanford. She was a good woman to the
poor, she felt that the poor should be
looked after.
	Sisters Taylor and Wright bore faithful
testimonies.
	Sister Alder spoke of the many testi-
monies she had while on her mission to
England, also of many circumstances that
heppened while she was away. Said she
was very desirous of helping a family
from England who cannot help themselves.
She spoke of their goodness and faithful-
ness and asked the sisters to help her to
raise the means that they might come to
Zion.
	The sisters contributed $16.00 to help
the family migrate.
	The congregation sang the hymn,
“Earth with her ten thousand flowers.”
	Sister Hardy spoke of the poor in the
world and the many oppositions they have
to meet and their great desire to come to
Zion.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said she had
a strong testimony when she was young.
Spoke of the purity of the ordinances of
the Temple and urged all to be faithful to
the truth.
	Sisters Latham, Beaching and Buzzo,
also another sister in the congregation bore
their testimonies.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks
Benediction by Sister Sarah J. Cannon.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-Monthly
Meeting, held in the 14th ward hall, Salt
Lake City, July, 1902, Counselor E. J.
Stevenson presiding. Singing, “Lord we
come before Thee now.” Prayer by Sister
Elizabeth Paul. Singing, “Come, O Thou
King of kings.” Minutes of the last meet-
ing read and accepted.
	Sister Stevenson then addressed the sis-
ters, referring to the conferences she had
visited in some of the southern settlements.
Urged all to bear their testimony, told
how the sisters that live so far away
appreciate the testimonies of the sisters
published in the EXPONENT. Referred to
the goodness of Aunt Zina Young. Sang,
“What was witnessed in the heavens.”
	Sister Diana Read testified to the good-
ness of the Lord to her in the Temple.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt that we should
all strive to maintain a standing in the
Church, spoke of the strength derived from
hearing the testimonies of others. Urged
the mothers to watch their children, to
teach them the principles of the Gospel,
and referred to her young days, how the
teachings of her parents had made a good
and lasting impression on her through life.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon testified of
the good effect the Relief Society work had
upon the sisters. Spoke of the excursion
that will take place sometime soon, wished
all to be interested.
	Sister Webb spoke of the necessity of
taking care of our children, we should be
careful how we talk to and before them at
all times.
	Sister Silver told the sisters of the very
pleasant trip she had in California and
other places, how kindly they were treated,
and referred to several places of interest
that she visited.
	Sister Taylor thought the schools that
are in our midst are a great benefit to our
children.
	Sister Phelps bore her testimony and
urged all to live faithful.

[Column 3]
	Sister Jane Young addressed the sisters.
She said she was a pioneer, and was anx-
ious that all should lay up provisions for
the future, she felt that great calamities 
were coming in the near future. She had
passed through many trials.
	Sister Butterworth referred to many
trials and trying circumstances that the
people witnessed in years gone by, and
spoke of the necessity of mothers taking
care of their children. She felt there was
too much time spent in pleasure seeking.
	Sister Squires told of the thankfulness of
a sister for being prayed for at the meeting
some time ago. She felt to testify of the
goodness of the Lord to her when she was
a child, caring for her when coming to this
country all alone. Told how kind friends
took care of her and the poverty she ex-
perienced in many ways.
	Sister Emma Ridd bore her testimony.
	Counselor Stevenson referred to the
early days and urged all to lay up grain
and flour, to be wise virgins in very deed.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks,
Singing, “Come, let us anew.” Benedic-
tion by Sister L. D. Alder.
		AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


