[Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1890 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL NaTIONS'" SALT LAKE HERALD: The Semi-Weekly Herald is now the largest, brightest and most enterprising paper published in Utah. It consists of 8 pages, and is shortly to be re-enlarged. The Herald publishes the most standard current stories by special arrangement with the authors; containing many illustrated features; has the exclusive tights to Bill Nye's letters; maintains a regular telegraphic correspondent in Washington, and receives weekly letters from the celebrated correspondent Frank G. Carpenter.
Special attention is paid to market reports and agricultural news; and a prominent feature will be made of religious news, the tabernacle services being regularly reported, while prominent sermons of the leading church authorities are given in full. In politics The Herald stands as it has ever stood, the firm and undeviating champion of the tights of the people of Utah. WOMAN'S SPHERE Woman's sphere is bounded only By the talents God has given, And her duty lies wherever Earth can be made more like heaven. STAR OF BETHLEHEM: The star of Bethlehem will again be visible in this year, being its seventh appearance since the birth of Christ. It comes once in 315 years and is of wondrous brilliance for the space of three weeks; then it wanes and disappears after seventeen months. It will be a sixth star added to the five fixed*** in the constellation Cassiopea while it remains in sight. UTAH STAKE: Minutes of the Relief Society Conference of Utah Stake held Nov. 30th, 1880. Sister John presiding. Pres.
John said, "I am thankful to meet with you and I am pleased with the remarks that are made. Woman's position will be advanced from this time; our Savior talked with Eve and also with Sarah and Mary.
Joseph revealed the doctrine that we had a mother in heaven.
Christ first appeared to woman after his crucifixion; that shows how she was viewed by him.
Woman is entitled to be equal with man, every key of the priesthood that man has, woman can enjoy with her husband.—C. Daniels, Sec. NOTES AND NEWS: Not long since a Spanish artist was commissioned to paint a portrait of the baby King Alfonso.
This he did, and when the painting was completed presented his bill for $20,000. The Queen Regent, Christina, objected, saying the price was too extravagant. 'The artist expressed his regrets that his terms were too high for the royal purse, and begged her majesty to accept the picture as a gift. The Queen, highly indignant, wrote a check at once. FEAR NOT, ZION: It often happens that the destiny of a people, or a nation, is worked out very differently in its development and fulfillment from what was expected or anticipated by the wisest men and philosophers, who have made predictions concerning that which would be likely to transpire; but God's plans never fail and His decrees must come to pass; notwithstanding the dark clouds that hang about the horizon today. 7
 se y a\ oa a -ti ae | A$ van drNgaN RS. ELIZABETH D. TATE celebrated her 5th birthday on December oth. A life-long worker in Church activities, Mrs. Tate has also loved memorizing poems and hymns. Born in Tooele, this pioneer woman is mother of fourteen sons and daughters, and has 70 grandchildren, 118 great-grandchildren, and nine great-great grandchildren. Recent survey by the Population Reference Bureau discloses that the women graduated from 112 colleges in 1924 have produced during these twenty-five years an average of only 1.26 children apiece. This figure is forty per cent short of the replacement requirement rate of 2.1 children per married couple (the 1% being the casualty average before adulthood). The Brigham Young University women set the highest record in the country—an average of 2.45 children. The Utah State Agricultural College at Logan came second with a 2.3 rating. Eighth highest was the University of Utah with an average of 1.93, giving Utah a considerable lead over any other state. "Does A. B. Mean 'Abolish Babies?' " the Bureau asks. N an international rural youth exchange program, Utah has sent as its delegate Josephine Daines,