MAY 1949 Shis Happy Land Nyal W. Anderson I looked across the richness of a world of wheat That lay a sun-drenched patchwork in the heat, Beheld an opaque blueness in the sky And listened as archaic oaks began to sigh Like patriarchs against the wind. I stood and watched as sultry summer fled With but a backward tilting of her head To shake the emerald oak leaves from her hair As autumn caught them changing, pair by pair, Into a scarlet tambourine. I watched as fields were stripped of harvest gold, And, stretching out my arms that I might hold The waning beauty of this magic land, I found instead a snowflake in my hand That melted in the wind. Cold blew the herald winds on trumpets white As winter kidnapped autumn in the night, And cloaking her within his ermine stole, Entombed the gypsy maiden's soul Within his glittering diadem. And then across the silvered silence of the land I saw a thousand sunlit bridges spanned, And laughed, defiant, when the sapphired king Threw down his melting crown to spring, A river in the wind. And as I watched her, lilac-scented, fair, Weave violets and crocus in her verdant hair, I once again outstretched each empty hand That I might, always, so embrace this happy land Beneath the wind. {Note: This poem was awarded first place in a contest conducted in the winter quarter 1949 by the Wye Magazine, Brigham Young University literary publication, and is reprinted by permission.—Ed.] The Cover: ''Candles of Our Lord'"' (Yucca whipplei), Photograph by Josef Muench. Our Responsibility to Inactive Members Counselor Velma N. Simonsen [Address delivered at the annual general Relief Society conference in the Tabernacle on Thursday afternoon, September 30, 1948.| HIS is one of the great mo ments of my life to stand in this historic building and, before this great body of Relief Society sisters, bear my testimony to the truthfulness of the gospel and to the blessings of the Relief Society work to the women of the Church, and to the women of the whole world who will accept of its blessings and its opportunities. When Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society he said: "I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth." Later on he said if the women would live up to their privileges that the angels could not be restrained from being their associates. When he turned the key he opened the door for such a flood of blessings to flow down upon womankind that it ls beyond our powet to comprehend the greatness of those blessings. There is a French quotation that says: 'Noblesse oblige," which might be expressed, "where much is given, much is €Xpected." Yesterday, and especially this morning, we have heard much of the accomplishments of women, and our hearts have rejoiced in this accomplishment. We have given much, but I believe that we have not yet lived up completely to out privileges, that. We have not yet reached the limit of our possibilities, and especially of the possibilities of bringing spiritual awakening to our inactive sisters. One of the charges which the Prophet gave the society later on was to strengthen the communities, and how better can we strengthen out communities than to bring spirituality to the hearts of the mothers im our communities? One of the great est needs in the whole world today | is the need of spirituality. It can be truly said that in the world of science and material things, nevet before has man aimed so_ high, planned so profoundly, or achieved of our forefathers are commonplace realities to never before have been less sure of themselves. Never has there been a been so much cators, Our scientists, Our our own prophets tell us that if the world is to endure at all it must do so by spiritual power. Page 291 292 So, if there is one Latter-day Saint woman in our community who is not receiving of the Strength and the blessings of Relief Society and Relief Society activity in the rearing of her family, we have a responsibility toward her. And how can we Prepare ourselves and make sure that we are equal to this responsibility? First, we ourselves must be sure that we are living according to the standards of the gospel, that we have active membership, and active and loyal participation in the organizations of the Church. That is one of the great spiritual losses of today —lack of loyalty to worthy causes. How many parents do you know who are heartsick over the waywardness of their children? Most Latterday Saint parents are very anxious that their children be active in the Church and, yet, they fail to realize that what they themselves do and what they say, their activity and their disloyalty, are the gteatest factors in governing their children's lives. We of the older generation have had the teachings of faithful parents and grandparents to set an example for us. We may become inactive for a time and drift away, but those teachings have been so strong that they cannot be entirely lost, and we return. But what about these children who have seen only the actions of their disloyal parents? LAST summer President Smith, talking at an open-air meeting in our stake, told the story of a couple who had a fine Latter-day Saint background who became inactive and drifted away from the Church. In later life they realized RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 what they were missing, and came back, but they found that they could not interest their children 'in the Church or its ideals. And, as he said, they could repent, but they could not repent for their children. President Grant once said, "Wherever you find a woman who ls devoted to the work of the Lord, almost without exception you will find that her children are devoted to it." And Brother Ballard in one of his talks said, "If we live the gospel, there is no power in earth or in hell that can prevail against us. There IS NO power or influence greater than the teachings of a good woman." What a promise that is to us who are Tearing our families, and what an incentive to bring the gospel, a spiritual awakening, to our inactive sisters. We must be our sisters' keepers and do all in our power to keep alive in their hearts a love of the gospel and a desire to live by its principles. I hope that each of you sitting here today is saying in your heart, what can I do to encourage my sisters, the women whom | know in my ward who are inactive? Maybe you are saying, "I wish she would tell us what we can do to teawaken spirituality in the hearts of our inactive sisters." In this you may be like the old farmer down in Southern Utah who was approached by a book salesman who tried to interest him in buying a book, but he said, "Why, what do I want it for?" And the salesman replied: "It will teach you how to raise better cattle, how to raise better sheep and better Tops. It wil] teach 293 YOu how to be let us wh aT¢ Officers ang teachers 4 much better farmer," In the *ociety make the Olganization A C answered: "T don't want SO effective and our teaching SO vitthat bo I am not farming = dlancige Spiritual that, f We can et 600d as I know how now." the sisters to attend ust once, they wonder, are we Ng Our spirit will feel the Strength of he Organ ual farming as Well as know how? Ization a the hope and the jo Ou do not need to be told What to and the faith that active Patticipa- C as Well as you know h W, tio brings, and I am ure that you Will have When | this S€ Congrega Wwonderfy] SuCCess in bringing these lon, I thought th MACtive sisters Into actiy; j et us w * €ach repre.; sentative of 3 Ward or a un; Ing the great ]j blessing of | unit of Re lef Society st just one elief Society and the woman in her ommunity in Relief help that It gives ys In Tearing oy Oociety, the mbership Would be Children, ] "Ss show by our living Increased by Many thousands. If that we OT€ capable, that we every Organization increased Its ave Detter, that we 4 appier for membe ship Y Just one, that, in it. Clonging t Relief Society Let us self, would bring an MCcrease of show tha We feel that; lS an honor wenty-five hundre Sisters next and a Ptivilege to belong to Relief year, Society, Let us be enthusiastic in It is my Prayer that the Lorg will the work and about the Work, and bless ys with 4 €sire and With the ct us never 4; of {tying to interability to bring int activity our in est those who C not active And ACtIVE sisters a ee others of Destiny Christie Lund Coles Mothers of destiny.. You builded wel] bly YOU Wore the Cloak of 9) ethood; UF historje can neyer fully tel] ow Proudly and un ieldingly you stood N spite of aly watchi g th OU spoke the € wild Plum traces, re moving shuttles aking from fabri atterns of futu A Pattern for Christine Dorothy ]. Roberts clear her eyes. 'Two large tears rolled slowly down her smooth cheeks, leaving shining trails and forming two jagged pools on the golden oak of her mother's old pedal sewing machine. Other girls had fathers and mothers for times like this. Christine had never known her father, and now Mama, who had always been so close to her, was gone. The surgeon's knife, which was to have assured Mama, after her years of hardship, the quiet span of peace and abundance she deserved, had somehow failed in its not unaccustomed miracle. "So unnecessary," her brothers had mourmed, with added incentive for their medic studies. Even her brothers were too far away to be reached, Naaman and Don, two promising medical students at school in New York. A girl needed her mother at a time like this, with only a week to go. The tiny garment under the machine needle swam in the mottled sunlight, till she could not distinguish seam from placket. Like a jigsaw puzzle, the pieces still refused to fit, though she had worked so long that the shadow of the tall elm had crept across the lawn and now dappled the dimity before her. A sheet of pattern directions still lay, unfolded, on the table beside her. She squeezed the tears from her eyes again. Only, this time, she looked up at the calendar on the side wall. Its young Madonna cuddled an angelic, pink-frocked child. Below, the page said, June Page 294 (- ra oe blinked hard to 1920, in broad, black print. The days were all crossed off through the 11th. The 19th was outlined with a neat, blue ink line, carefully drawn around the date. 'This was marked over with a bold, red penciled circle, irregularly shaded in ted. At the bottom of the page, an amateurs hand had pnnted, Herm. The calendar, too, wavered before her eyes, being replaced by the picture of Dave, her young husband, booming, "That little blue line? There's nothing blue about it. Why, honey, it's a red-letter day, biggest in a lifetime! Our first!" And he had boldly used his red pencil. "But what'll we call it? Can't be just It; it's part of the family." "Oh, Dave, it's got to be a Her or a Him." "Her or Him Her, Him Herm! That's what we'll call it, Herm. Till the nineteenth of June, then it can be—" "Herman Dave" Christine joined in his enthusiasm. "Or Hermione Chnistine." He picked her up in strong, young arms and laid her gently on the couch, then returned to the calendar and printed Herm, at the bottom of the page. Some of the bitterness spilled out of Christine in two more tears. "Oh, Mama, Mama!" 'The small garment before her blurred out of all recognition, and with it the years dissolved, twelve of them. Eee & GHE was seven, Donnie five, Naaman eight, and Mama—oh, A PATTERN FOR CHRISTINE Mama was sweet and gay and kind and ageless. 'They were on the long back porch of their small home in the kindly, country town. The old washer sang rhythmically, "Kerbump-sp-lash, ker-bump-sp-lash," as Naaman swung the lever back and forth, back and forth. Donnie, standing on a crude homemade stool, clung tenaciously to the lever handle, below Naaman's hands. "What makes you so ambitious?" asked Naaman, scowling at Donnie's persistence. "I want to help, too shrilled his reply. Mama swirled more bluing balls through the rinsing water of the tubs between Christine and _ her, then grasped the handle of the old wringer, fastened to the washing bench. She turned slowly, as Christine fed the clothes through from the first tub. "Oh, Mama, Mrs. Boyne has such pretty pillowslips. Look at this A spray of lilacs grew above the hemline of the slip she held up. "It's nice to be handy with the needle," said Mama. "Things like that can grow out of idle afternoons and sitting, of an evening. I'm going to start you on that little piece with the French knots the first night I get caught up with my ironing." A sputtering noise came from the kitchen as Mama wrung the last piece through. "The boiler!" She ran to the stove. "Naaman, dear, please help Mama out with the boiler." With Naaman gone, the dasher, under Donnie's hand alone, almost ceased to turn. Mama and Naaman set the boiler on the porch. Mama lifted the clothes out with " Donnie 295 a long stick, delightedly. "They are white today. 'That last batch of soap we made was the nght recipe, at last." "After they're blued, they look pretty as shadows on the snow," Christine observed. "They're beautiful," Mama enthusiastically agreed. The washer was rhythmically splashing again. One basketful was ready to hang. "Mama," Naaman glared down at the top of Donnie's head, and rolled his eyes upward suggestively. Mama nodded, and called to him, "Donnie, would you like to be a man and help Mama hang?" Donnie left the washer and skipped over to her. "Let me wear the clothespins." She tied the faded embroidered bag around his chest. He reached into the big, bulging pockets and handed her the pins. Christine could hear the spank of the clothes as Mama shook them out smooth. The alarm clock on the bench rang. Christine shut it off. "T'wenty minutes, Naaman. 'There's only one washerful left." "Lucky day! My arm's stiff." "Well, I'll turn the wringer while you feed." "Say, Chris, I've got a new hiding place for tonight when we play Run, Sheep, Run." "You couldn't have. Tell me." "Can't. The captain might not choose us on the same side. But I've got it all figured out." "Now just the socks." Christine gingerly picked up the socks, one at a time, in two fingers, and dropped them into the machine. "Well, Mrs. Boyne is all cleaned up," announced Naaman, and flung 296 himself into the shade of the apple tree at the corner of the porch. "All clean," echoed Donnie, doing the same. Christine rested in the swing, her feet dangling on the cracked ce ment. 'The quiet of their little world and the coolness of the shade enveloped her in the old peace again. Mama soon came out with a basket of clean, ironed clothes. A dish towel was spread across the top and tucked in at the sides. "Whose is that load, Mama?" "Sister Nolte's. And here, Naaman, put Sister Nolte's dollar in this little purse when she pays you, and be sure to snap it closed before you put it into your pocket." Then she brought a plate with bread and jam, three pieces. "And here is a slice each, with my new pottawatomie jam on, for my workmen." "I want the white piece," shouted Donnie, helping himself to the top slice. Naaman and Christine put the basket on Naaman's worn wagon, Naaman pulling, and Christine holding the basket steady. When Christine looked back, Donnie was giving Mama a hug. He had the slice in one hand, and the long willow for driving the town cows home from the pasture, in the other. She guessed it was time for Donnie to go; after all, it was a long way to the town pasture, and the shadows were long on the wide, unpaved road before them. She knew it made Donnie feel important to earn his bit that way. T seemed a long, warm trip to Sister Nolte's. "Hold the gate back farther, Christine, this load's wider than the basket." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 They turned the handle, shmilling the doorbell fastened on the middle of Sister Nolte's door. Sister Nolte opened it finally. A pleated white apron edged with lace circled her generous waistline over the maroon alpaca dress with the long sleeves and the immense skirts. Even in June she wore a small, thin, silk-brocaded black shawl around her shoulders. "Ah, you solla bairn. Come in, come in." She patted their heads and smoothed their hair, and helped put the basket on the hall floor. "Come in the parlor and sit." She opened the unused room and a musty odor drifted out. "We'll sit out under the umbrella tree and wait, Sister Nolte. It's cool out there." "All right, if you want. Right out with the money." They sank down under the drooping old tree, their backs against the trunk. Naaman flexed his pocket knife. He flipped it from his elbow, his shoulder, his head. It stood upright in the grass, vibrating. Christine searched the grass for a fourleafed clover. 'The door opened again; a round tray appeared with a large sugar bowl on it made of blue glass with little bubbles here and there, and a wide gold edge and handle. It was heaped with little white cubes of lump sugar. Sister Nolte followed. "A lilla to speece, maybe?" She hovered over them. She gave each a heavy, grooved, red glass tumbler. "It is juice from raspberries and currants, mixed." She pressed on them a plate of scalloped cookies with crystallized sugar on top. Pll be A PATTERN FOR CHRISTINE "Oh, thank you, Sister Nolte." "Now you eat.'"" She labored toward the house, calling her husband, "Lilla Chrestian, betta Chrestian!"' "What are the seeds in these cookies?" asked Naaman. "They always taste so funny." "She's from the Old Country, Naaman, and I guess she brought them from there. Funny tasting, though. I'm glad: Mama doesn't use them." Sister Nolte came out with a great package wrapped in papers. "The pig's head, freshly killed and cleaned. I am too gammel this year to take care of it. Maybe Mama can make head cheese? And some sausage; here is some sausage. You like sausage, Naaman?" "Oh, yes, oh, thank you Sister Nolte." "We had to kill early because of Maria's wedding. Oh, such a big wedding. Ly." "Sister Nolte, Mama is going to give you some of our crab apples for preserves." Christine knew the ways of Mama. "Your Mama iss. Bless Mama's big, brave heart." She touched the corner of her eye with her apron. "And the dollar. And for Donnie." She tucked Naaman's pocket full of cookies. Naaman snapped the dollar carefully in the purse and stowed it in his pocket. "Thank you, Sister Nolte, and goodbye." Naaman and Christine each put a knee in the empty wagon and coasted down the hill from the Nolte's. "Put on the brakes," cried Naaman at the base of the hill, dragging his foot. Your The whole town, near-— 297 "Here's where we spilled Donnie that day," giggled Christine. "And here's where we found the nickel to pacify him. Let's look in the dry ditch; maybe there's another one. I could use some of that candy." | Christine remembered the treat of spending the whole nickel. "One of these and two of those, no, three of those." They had pointed through the glass of the wondrous candy counter. "Oh, well, no luck today." Naaman climbed back to the wagon and pushed on across the street. Donnie came around the corner, limping slightly. He swished his willow and the last cow trotted two steps and ambled toward her own corral. "What happened to your foot, shrimp?" Donnie shied away from Naaman. "Nothing. It feels good." "Don't be scared. I've got something for you. A present." "Who from?" "From your best girl," Christine giggled. "Who? I haven't got any." "Guess," Christine commanded. "Trudy." Donnie dug the dust with his toes. "Donnie loves Trudy. Donnie loves Trudy," Naaman sang. "Now we know." Donnie raised the willow switch threateningly. "It's from Sister Nolte, Donnie. Give them to him, Naaman." Donnie tasted the cookies, disappointed. "They taste different." ATER, Mama prepared the supper soup. They knew what kind it would be. It was always the same. (Continued on page 356) Civil Liberty Today Elder G. Homer Durham Director, Institute of Government, University of Utah T is all too common nowadays | to take civil liberty for granted. Our forefathers could afford no such luxurious attitude. Most of the time, most of the people, in most of the world, have been slaves. Greek democracy at Athens was based on slavery. 'The Roman world knew little freedom so far as the majority of humankind was concerned. 'The nineteenth century, true, saw the expansion of civil liberty for significant, large groups of people, but chiefly in western Europe, the United States, and the British Dominions. Indentured servants and slavery in most western countries are now things of the past. Ownership of human beings has ceased to exist, generally, but new forms of control threaten the freedoms that flowered in the nineteenth century. In order that we of the twentieth century may have some appreciation of our general situation, we might consider the facts that in Virginia, in 1625, forty per cent of the population were indentured servants; that thirty-six per cent of the emigrants to Pennsylvania in the 1680's were bond slaves; that a Maryland statute of 1715 authorized not to exceed ten lashes "for any one offense'" committed by these indentured founders of our social structure! After a few years most of these servants became free, acquired property, and established themselves as significant members of society. Slavery, too, flourished in America until the Civil War, numbering, in 1700, about ten per cent of the population. Even among the humanitarian Quakers of Pennsylvania, the lot of the slave was not particularly happy, despite the fact that the leading figures of the abolition movement were eventually numbered among this group. A Pennsylvania statute of 1693 authorized any persons: To take up Negroes, male or female, whom they shall find gadding abroad on the first days of the week without a ticket from their master or mistress... And to take them to jail, there to remain that night, and that without meat or drink, and to cause them to be publicly whipped next morning with 39 lashes, well laid on their bare backs, at which their said master or mistress shall pay 15d. To the whipper (Curtis P. Nettels, The Roots of American Civilization, 1940, page 326). The First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States provides that: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. Together with the following nine amendments, this provision constitutes the Federal Bill of Rights. These amendments took effect December 15, 1791, some thirty months after the inauguration of George Washington under the new Constitution, framed in 1787, ratified in 1788, and put into effect in 1789. The establishment of American Federal union under a written Constitution in 1789 was itself a Page 299 enth Amen h, as a conse Virginia Company, the Proprietary charters conferred by the British Crown "pon the Calverts jn Mary. Land, the Penns in Pennsylvania, ing the sacred sphere of human liberty into which government shal] not enter, Incorporated into the Bill of Rights were the significant entirely g re-COpy of English experience. It js true, however, that the CIVIL LIBERTy TODAY Principle of € traced to m the a y to € post Office, interferes with Individual Orious Olution of 1688-8 lights, the Person has reco Tse to ordina made the Principles effective ang peal Bill ce°' ial a Ay F itis Bes available for embodiment ao iie Statds found else here in the Federaj Written Constitution Peculiar to onstitut; ME€rican €xperien d States This System of Protections, jp Tights of Personal liberty May be S Lan Constitut Classified under two headings: Cdera Onstitution, embraces the following substantive d procedur. 1. Substantive (in the Words of Profes. Al tights: Sors Oge and Ray), those "pe taining to the fact and essence of freedom," The Substantive Suarantees Include 2 Procedural, "Te ating to the methods 7. 'mmunity from Slavery and Mvolun Y Which free om is Protected," lary servitude. 2. Freedom of Teligion Substantive nights often emerge 3. Freedom ¢ speech and presg ust. Eve if Witten, as In the 4 Aight of assemb] nd petition Soviet stitution, ubstantive 5- Right to keep and 5 ar arms Tights are aningless Nless ac 6. Equal Peon of pins ue 7- The restric n Teasonable o ~ompanied by Procedural rights, It fenses to a Narrow, "onstitutionally fixed IS the glory 6 Anglo-American libmarin erty that our ¢ Nstitutional Ja not mee 1 only contains, } gen erally has od; pe Puncipa Procedura euarantees jn anded, -, sua: ane suarantees ae - The forbidding Of bills of attaindey ve ng. ( Punishment } Politica] legislation With The net Tesult, in the United out judicial] trial) States, Is that h Individual citizen lS surrounded 2. Forbidding of Wi €€ layers of (criminal ] lcgal-constitutional | &X Post facto laws Medies tg previous] -5 Maintain his liberty: €gislation €nacted after the Y-Supposed innocent act was committed ) 3- Guarantee Judicial] Process by 1. If interfered wisp by another Indigrand jury Indictment vidual or Private gtoup, he as the rem. 4 The Writ of habeas Corpus edies of he ordin law, in both Feq 5 al by Jury.; eral and State court depe ding on the rotection 'of Privacy from unreas nature of the cas onable Searches and S€iZures 2. If Interfere th by "UC process of law whenever life, liberty, oy Property are aff Y Other syb. Hard-won liberties, in- _ COrporated into Ameri nights, Plus those fea; tures of the Federal] [ CaN ConstityConstitution <2 Uonalism, rest the gr Social, eco. Ticularly 4p rteenth endment nomic, and Political advantages of 4 which "limit he power of the States nchly-endowed nation, [This article may be used Scien You Might Have Waited Fay Tarlock EEING Miss Tyndale again S was just as Nan Kenny had hoped it would be. Miss Tyndale was coming down the flagstone path from her garden, carrying a tin milk pan heaped with gooseberries, her straw hat tilted back from her perspiring forehead. "Well," beamed Miss Tyndale, her smile deepening the wrinkles in her pleasant face, "this is the best surprise I've had all summer, and look how you've caught me!" She hurriedly set the pan of gooseberries on the path and began smoothing her blue and white gingham apron in a deprecatory manner. "Don't take your apron off, please," Nan called as she came through the white picket gate, pushing her small daughter before her. "Tm going to help you pick the gooseberries." Nan laughed an amused laugh. "It's been so long since I've seen a gooseberry, I'll enjoy doing it." Gooseberries, she thought, had become fashionable. Indeed Miss 'Tyndale and her picket gate would make good copy for any garden magazine. Nan stood inside the gate, looking with love on Miss Tyndale's tall, spare, and still erect frame and on her face, beautiful in its intelligence and serenity. She's part of the earth, changeless as the seasons, Nan said to herself. Is it escaping the storms of matrimony that has given her this air of tranquility? No, I've known married people to possess the same thing. And think of Page 302 what some of the unmarried ones look like! Why, she was wondering anew as she started up the flagstone path towards Miss 'Tyndale, has she never married? Sometimes men have no. Sense. The two of them sat on the whiterailed porch. In front of them, and sloping towards the lake, lay the little town, its roofs almost obscured by the summer green. Outside the town were the orchards and fields, lush and rich with the promise of harvest. When a breeze stirred, Nan saw the silver shimmer of the lake beyond the fields. Back of them, and circling the valley, were the mountains, their peaks purple in the afternoon light. Winkie, Nan's toddling daughter, ran shouting on the lawn, stopping now and then to pick a Shasta daisy from the border. "It's beautiful, isn't it?" Miss Tyndale asked, more in worship than for confirmation. Her brown, gnarled fingers snapped off the stem and blossom ends of the berries even as she looked. "There's nothing like it back in New York is there?' She dared Nan to contradict her. "Nothing," sighed Nan blissfully. "That's why I have to come back every chance I get. I wanted to see this as badly as I wanted to show off my daughter." "VE always felt the same way about this town, even when I was a child, not much older than YOU MIGHT HAVE WAITED Winkie," confided Miss Tyndale. She held up a plump gooseberry to the light and polished off a bit of mold with the corner of her blue and white apron. "And it didn't look the same either," she added with one of her deep chuckles. "I remember when I was about five, standing out in the yard in front of our log cabin. There were none of the shade trees and orchards you see now, just a lot of pigpens and corrals too close to the house. But I thought it was beautiful, the most beautiful place in the world, and that my heart would break if ever I had to leave it." She held up another gooseberry, admiring its green perfection. "I always think," she said slowly, "that more importance should be given to the gooseberry. With us it begins the cycle of the harvest." She gave Nan a beseeching smile. "I'll bet you're wondering how an old lady in her eighties has the temerity to be storing up the fruits of the earth." Cutting off Nan's denial, she went on, "Maybe I haven't sense enough to realize that I'm old. But when I stop preparing for the winter, I'm done for. As long as I can store up for gooseberry pies, I'm still part of the living." She scooped up another handful of gooseberries and swiftly snapped off the brown ends. Years before Miss Tyndale had once said, "The present is far too important to me to waste time dishing out the past." But today Nan was hungry for the past and for a more intimate understanding of Miss Tyndale. "You haven't always lived here on the land, have you?" she asked. "T haven't gone too far afield," 303 Miss Tyndale answered, her eyes still absorbing the summer beauty with pride of ownership. "I lived in Provo for a few years, and once I moved to Salt Lake to work in a shop—but that was before you were born." She snapped off another stem with sure fingers. "I've never wanted to live any place but here." "Didn't you mind, when you sold the old house?" Nan asked the question, hoping it was the right one. "Not a bit," Miss Tyndale assured her, "as long as I could live on part of the land. You know," she confessed, a bit of rue in her smile, "that as I get older I understand some things better. I do believe that I inherited the Englishman's passionate love for his land. None of my family, not even my father or my brothers born in England, had it as I do." <sTF you had been truly English you'd still be living in the old house," Nan said nodding to the big, white painted stone house set in a grove of trees a quarter of a mile away from the cottage. "No, I'm_ typically American," Miss Tyndale declared, a suspicion of conceit in her tone. "I like a raw new. Home with beautiful shining plumbing. But you should see what they've done with the old house." She waved a gooseberry in the air, C her eyes bright with interest. "They spent a fortune remodeling it so that it looks like a gentleman's estate. But me, I'm glad to be rid of the old fireplaces and big, cold upstairs." "Yes, you're thoroughly American," Nan teased her. "You have to 304 have everything electric and new." She looked through the open doorway to the familiar living room. It seemed unchanged from the last visit. On the floor were the rugs Miss Tyndale had hooked; the pioneermade secretary was still stuffed with New York Sunday Times; the bookcase with the glass doors shielded the books she wanted to read but seldom did. There was the serving table Miss Tyndale had made from a picture frame and the deep leather chair that had been her father's. Through the rear door Nan could see the electric refrigerator and stove, next to the drop-leaf table made of early Utah pine. "You're English," Nan decided, loath to leave the subject. "You're the reserved type." "Not reserved, shy," Miss Tyndale corrected her. "Why once when I was a child Mother sent me over to Mortenson's to borrow something, and do you know what I did?" Nan shook her head. "When I got into the house, they asked me to sit down. I sat down so frightened I forgot what I came for. At noon when they set the table for dinner they invited me to eat. I knew I should go home, but I didn't know how to refuse. After dinner I went back to my chair. I guess I'd be sitting there now if Mother hadn't sent an older brother after 97 me. Miss Tyndale's face was momentarily sad, as if after all these years the gaucheries of the child still troubled her. "I can't imagine your being that shy." Nan moved closer to share the same bowl for her cleaned berries. She felt close to Miss TynRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 dale in spirit and wondered if now was the moment to ask her the question she had long wanted answered. She was aware that the moment might not come again. EPIDN'T you, when you were a girl, ever want to leave this?" she extemporized, moving her hand in an all-inclusive gesture. "I can understand now why it would satisfy, but when I was younger it didn't mean a thing." Miss 'Tyndale's hands were still for the first time, her voice very quiet as she said, ""That's one of the reasons I've always admired you, Nan. You weren't afraid to go away on your own. You made a place for yourself and found what you wanted in a strange world. Now, look what you've got." She gestured towards Winkie, busily engaged in stripping a hollyhock. "Of course I wanted to go," she replied, coming back to Nan's question, leaving the gooseberries still idle in her lap, "but I didn't know how to do it." "You should have married someone who would take you away." Nan did her best to give her words a casual sound. "It would have been easy then." Resuming her work, Miss Tyndale smiled. "I don't believe I ever thought of it like that. Anyway, I'd have had to come back sooner or later." She settled comfortably back in her chair and indulged in another of her deep chuckles, "Come to think of it, I might have gone away. I almost had a chance." It was hard for Nan to keep from crowding the edge of her chair. (Continued on page 353) American Cancer Society Volunteers Bertha Hare Long, National Deputy Commander HEN I visited the national headquarters of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, | was tremendously impressed with the program of volunteer service which is carried on from year to year by this group of consecrated women. I felt almost as if I were walking on holy ground when I walked through the large board meeting room and viewed the oil portraits of the women who had started and carried forward this service to humanity, as it is still being done. They were women of courage and vision and as each has handed the torch of leadership on to her followers, the same inspiration has been carried along, so that it touches the spirit of even a visitor such as I was. And so I said to myself, what can I tell these women of volunteer services? It is for me rather to learn from them. However, it is true that the Field Army of the American Cancer Society has a splendid record of service to humanity also, and for reasons of information, it is with pleasure that I set down a few of these accomplishments. The American Cancer Society was organized in 1913 by doctors and scientists, with a few laymen, who, motivated by the same unselfish spirit of the great doctors of our nation, wanted to make a concerted effort against the scourge of cancer. 'They began by surveys, pooling their knowledge, developing a program to increase medical facilities, and to further educate their profession in the nature of this disease. By 1936, they had a very good record of accomplishment, having developed facilities from about thirteen approved hospitals to over 300 approved hospitals and clinics. The great need now was to bring the public up-to-date on the knowledge and information which had been approved by the American Medical Association. 'There was no money for an educational program. The women of the nation were called upon to organize the Field Army for the purpose of educating the public. It was almost a hopeless task, for ignorance, superstition, and fear filled the minds of many people until few were even willing to listen to the program' of education or to read the available literature. The accomplishment of these women of courage, vision, and energy should be a matter of pride to all women. In ten years time, the attitude of the public toward the disease has changed greatly. Today magazines, newspapers, radio stations, etc., are co-operating to get the message to Mr. And Mrs. Average Citizen that "early cancer may be cured, through surgery, X-ray, radium;" to teach them the necessity of complete, periodic health examinations and to go to their family physician at once when any of the "seven danger signals" Page 305 This jg a notable feat in the field f Cati e that we SUN our work O tch that oy; Nation has ever known jg seekin Tecent SUIVEy Te the Causes of Cancer, new Means of veals that Only half of the Popula- 'A8NOsing jt, and additional] meth 10n of M€nca can 'Me a single o S of Curing it, Jy Is g Program early symptom of Cancer, that anyone May be proud to sup. Port, SOON the need for SeIvice to the I cannot Conclude thig article cancer patient became manifest. Without listing the cancer danger t was learned that a bedridden cansignals which "veryone sho Id mem Cer patient Tequires an "Normous _ orize. They May not mean that amount of dressings jn Order to be cancer 'S Present, but any one of Comfortable; to by €s€ dressings _ em develo " ZO at once to your "Y May cost fifty do] "rs @ month physician for his advice Per patients a drain on the in- "Se symptoms that May mean come of almost any family. So the early Cancer are: cancer dressings Plogram was or an ized. Hun Teds of €S not heal, 2. Lump or thi Made and disor elsewh tributed Without Char ckening in the breast ere, 3- Any chan I a wart or mole &¢ by volun Persistent digest; teers, meeting a great need of the 4. Persisten — €rmina] | § Or discharge t was needed, h NY change in bowel habits, Field Arm has often Supplied; also Volunteer S€Ivice ha be | the American St grateful to O 4 Cancer patien} Is be. Ing nursed. CT S€rvices, " and we are hankful fo the Opporth, a Campaign for tunity that 'S Ours to als serve h unds has C conducted and at Manity in jts fight against a Vicious ast we have available substantia] "nemy of mank d, cance ee ae Anna Prince Redd There Is a knack to livin With Others oy alone: Be pliant as th € marrow, Ot brittle a S the bone. Planning the Work Meetings Leone G. Layton Member, General Board of Relief Society and Chairman, Work Meeting Committee ORK meeting leaders should begin planning their next season's (1949-50) work meeting program now. Each leader is aware of the needs and interests of the women with whom she is working and should, at this time, be able to make general plans for an appropriate program which will accomplish the purposes of the Rehef Society work meeting in her locality. Activity on this day should be planned with the following purposes in view: 1. To enable the women to give service in the Church Welfare Plan by assisting in filling the Welfare clothing budget assignment. 2. To give service to the ward Relief Society organization by participating in activities beneficial to the local society. 3- To foster and develop creative and homemaking skills. 4. To promote a feeling of friendly sociability within the group by working together in pleasant association. Each of these purposes should be considered fully in programming the day's activities in order that the greatest possible good may be gained from the meeting. Our first obligation on this day is to fill the Welfare clothing budget assignment. In doing this, we must be governed by the directions given us by the Welfare committee when the assignment is made. Let us plan to allow all the women an opportunity to participate in this service, that all may obtain the satisfaction and the development which come from so doing. Next, we should anticipate the local activities of our society for the year and include the preparation for these in our season's planning. If we contemplate a bazaar, let us plan ways to use this activity to forward the purposes of the work meeting. Through a bazaar we can interest our members and bring them into activity; we can recognize the skills of some of our older women and ask them to teach these skills to others; we can plan to use everyone along the lines of her aptitudes, interests, and skills. Special activities may be featured on various work meeting days, which will stimulate interest in homemaking and home beautification. The sewing course, which will be outlined in the July issue of the Magazine, may well be brought into the work meeting. Many of our mothers have need of this special instruction, and it may be given in such a manner as to interest the entire Relief Society group when it does not interfere with other planned activities. Fine quilting has become traditional in Relief Society. Let us plan to carry on this tradition by helping all to have an opportunity to learn and practice this skill. (Continued on page 352) Page 307 any can test; that no Place was €ver so - How eminently Proper that the h iment, 9 affection and of | the attributes d thr C Woman, and Is like a 5 | > and blend With the aZure of the N, and Tadiatin to t € extreme Point, Causing 4]] between One Point to the other. TH ET'S SEASON It has been aid, and truly, that ¢ rin S€ason. There Is q Peculiar fL Cshness j the e It Were, to Very centre Mands expresg; n Conference was held March 22d, at the, _ v'. Pomeroy Presiding, President C. I. Counselors ang Other brethren were Present; opened by singing and Prayer, unselor Sarah Russel] Spoke briefly. Felt that life was too short to; | feelings towards Other, | € can aSSist Others In C. —Susan Wilcox, any ways with Words of Secreta Page 308 acon Cay- Dutch grandmother, fifty-two years old, Mrs. Boissevain, has started in the Netherlands a movement known as the "National Skirt," which numbers 4000 women. It originated last September when women were depressed because they had "nothing to wear" to celebrate the Golden Jubilee of Queen Wilhelmina's reign. They make patchwork skirts from the "odds and ends" in their workbaskets. These symbolize "salvaging bits of the past and uniting them in a new future" of national progress and world-wide understanding. T the end of the last war, Dr. James R. McCain, for thirty years president of Agnes Scott College for Women, in Georgia, said that when future generations read our contemporary history, the headlines will be, not the two wars, but the women's revolution of the past fifty years. He feels that the results of women's business, professional, and political activities have been more harmful than good for society as a whole. He feels that women working when there are more applicants than jobs will bring down all wages. He blames the increase in juvenile delinquency and the decrease in birthrate on mothers' absence from home. It is the