Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon homemakers who rear families, beautify cities with gardens, and keep churches alive. But he predicted that the tide will turn— that more women will prepare themselves to be expert home-makers. N interesting phase of the above problem is that some statistics on happy marriages indicate that the girl who has had business training and experience before or after marriage is a safer matrimonial risk in some respects than the young woman who has remained strictly at home. THE former Mildred McAfee, who was lieutenant-commander of women's reserves, U. S. N. R., during the last war, and who has been Mrs. Douglas Horton for about three years, recently resigned from her position as president of Wellesley College for women. She felt that her professional obligations were interfering with her being the kind of wife and homemaker she desired to be. ME: SARAH ANN A. GIBBONY, recently died in Duchesne, Utah, at the age of 101 years, six months, and twenty-five days. She had lived on seven different homesteads. Page 309 =) EDITORIAL ~oo VOL. 36 MAY 1949 NO. 5 'Viet in the Abundance of the Sj hin gs Which He Possesset}, Ss "*QHE wishes now she had never bought the things, They still have payments to make on their house, and she wishes she had fixed up her furniture, then she wouldn't be half-sick with Worty trying to pay for the new." The voice of the speaker sounded regretful as she related the imprudent Purchases of a friend., When the sky blooms in heavenly blue dotted white, diaphanous flowers, does the housewife walk into her own home and look with dissatisfied eyes at her furniture and floor coverings, drab and shabby from the winter's grime. Plints, and a new Tug to help make her living room come alive. Then, when her The picture js etched more sharply in her mind on succeeding days and, at length, results in a town and an Orgy of buying. For the first few days the housePage 310 wife thoroughly enjoys the new picture. Of Course, she was unable to match that blue exactly, and the green clashes a little. Tather startling at first still, the whole picture is satisfying to her. On the first of the month the postman delivers the bil]. Only after careful checking does she teluctantly concede that the adding machine totaled correctly. The monthly installment figure is, therefore, quite a bit higher than she had expected. But the housewife pushes the worry down in her mind and gives a fairly satisfied glance around her rooms in Partial justification, A few weeks later Johnny becomes ill and requires Many visits from the doctor. Just an unforeseen occurtence, the housewife thinks as she opens the doctor's bill, one that no one could anticipate and, anyway, Johnny is well again, By now the first bloom has gone from the new purchases, of oft-repeated Warnings, Lucy carried her glass | room and spilled it on the Tug in front of the fireplace. The cat also Wrought havoc on the new sofa by sharpening her claws on the upholstery of the arms. The installment Payments, however, do not become less, EDITORIAL Finally, the housewife is forced to face her worry and anxiety and acknowledge that she was unwise to have bought more than she could pay for. Instead of the gay and friendly atmosphere she had hoped to create, she looks at her home almost with dislike. But long after she reached this conclusion, she still continues to scrape together her installment money. And it was then that the harried housewife voiced to her friend 31] the remark, "I could have fixed up the old things and would not have been half-sick with worry trying to pay for my new things." The Savior remarked at one time, "for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth." 'The success of a homemaker does not depend on the newness nor costliness of possessions, neither does joy arise from imprudence and extravagance. M. C. S. Released to Spring C. Cameron Johns The earth is cushioned velvet to the tread And May has dressed her world in flowered lace; The gilding touch of sunshine overhead Makes miracles of all the commonplace. Even down the canyoned city street, Where stone and steel resist each growing thing, The little winds are blowing soft and sweet Releasing wintered spirits into spring. Midas and the Five Senses Lilacs After Rain Eva Willes Wangsgaard The spring returns the gold we lost In cups of daffodils, And golden lightbirds dip and rise Along the window sills. With gold to see and gold to touch Where water lilies float, And tinkling notes like nuggets tossed From every warbler's throat, A golden scent from hyacinths, And honey gold to taste, Five paths of gold lead to the heart. Come. Who would let it waste? Jeanette P. Parry Who has not loved the wild, sweet smell Of lilacs blooming after rain, Or walked a petal-covered path On fallen blossoms down the lane? So often I have picked bouquets, Dew-dripping, lavender, and white, And placed them in a pale blue bowl To lend their fragrance to the night. I have been far from haunts like these, Have stood in gardens fit for prayer, But still I hear the hum of bees And haunting perfume fills the air. Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 5 Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to support and care for. Courageously, she takes inventory of her meager resources and plans for the future. A neighbor gives her a sack of navy beans and Joanna decides to make Boston-baked beans