in my ward who are inactive? Maybe you are saying, "I wish she would tell us what we can do to teawaken spirituality in the hearts of our inactive sisters." In this you may be like the old farmer down in Southern Utah who was approached by a book salesman who tried to interest him in buying a book, but he said, "Why, what do I want it for?" And the salesman replied: "It will teach you how to raise better cattle, how to raise better sheep and better Tops. It wil] teach 293 YOu how to be let us wh aT¢ Officers ang teachers 4 much better farmer," In the *ociety make the Olganization A © answered: "T don't want SO effective and our teaching SO vitthat bo I am not farming = dlancige Spiritual that, f We can et 600d as I know how now." the sisters to attend ust once, they wonder, are we Ng Our spirit will feel the Strength of he Organ ual farming as Well as know how? Ization a the hope and the jo Ou do not need to be told What to and the faith that active Patticipa- © as Well as you know h W, tio brings, and I am ure that you Will have When | this S€ Congrega Wwonderfy] SuCCess in bringing these lon, I thought th MACtive sisters Into actiy; j et us w * €ach repre.; sentative of 3 Ward or a un; Ing the great ]j blessing of | unit of Re lef Society st just one elief Society and the woman in her ommunity in Relief help that It gives ys In Tearing oy Oociety, the mbership Would be Children, ] "Ss show by our living Increased by Many thousands. If that we OT€ capable, that we every Organization increased Its ave Detter, that we 4 appier for membe ship Y Just one, that, in it. Clonging t Relief Society Let us self, would bring an MCcrease of show tha We feel that; lS an honor wenty-five hundre Sisters next and a Ptivilege to belong to Relief year, Society, Let us be enthusiastic in It is my Prayer that the Lorg will the work and about the Work, and bless ys with 4 €sire and With the ct us never 4; of {tying to interability to bring int activity our in est those who © not active And ACtIVE sisters a ee others of Destiny Christie Lund Coles Mothers of destiny.. You builded wel] bly YOU Wore the Cloak of 9) ethood; UF historje can neyer fully tel] ow Proudly and un ieldingly you stood N spite of aly watchi g th OU spoke the € wild Plum traces, re moving shuttles aking from fabri atterns of futu A Pattern for Christine Dorothy ]. Roberts clear her eyes. 'Two large tears rolled slowly down her smooth cheeks, leaving shining trails and forming two jagged pools on the golden oak of her mother's old pedal sewing machine. Other girls had fathers and mothers for times like this. Christine had never known her father, and now Mama, who had always been so close to her, was gone. The surgeon's knife, which was to have assured Mama, after her years of hardship, the quiet span of peace and abundance she deserved, had somehow failed in its not unaccustomed miracle. "So unnecessary," her brothers had mourmed, with added incentive for their medic studies. Even her brothers were too far away to be reached, Naaman and Don, two promising medical students at school in New York. A girl needed her mother at a time like this, with only a week to go. The tiny garment under the machine needle swam in the mottled sunlight, till she could not distinguish seam from placket. Like a jigsaw puzzle, the pieces still refused to fit, though she had worked so long that the shadow of the tall elm had crept across the lawn and now dappled the dimity before her. A sheet of pattern directions still lay, unfolded, on the table beside her. She squeezed the tears from her eyes again. Only, this time, she looked up at the calendar on the side wall. Its young Madonna cuddled an angelic, pink-frocked child. Below, the page said, June Page 294 (- ra oe blinked hard to 1920, in broad, black print. The days were all crossed off through the 11th. The 19th was outlined with a neat, blue ink line, carefully drawn around the date. 'This was marked over with a bold, red penciled circle, irregularly shaded in ted. At the bottom of the page, an amateurs hand had pnnted, Herm. The calendar, too, wavered before her eyes, being replaced by the picture of Dave, her young husband, booming, "That little blue line? There's nothing blue about it. Why, honey, it's a red-letter day, biggest in a lifetime! Our first!" And he had boldly used his red pencil. "But what'll we call it? Can't be just It; it's part of the family." "Oh, Dave, it's got to be a Her or a Him." "Her or Him Her, Him Herm! That's what we'll call it, Herm. Till the nineteenth of June, then it can be—" "Herman Dave" Christine joined in his enthusiasm. "Or Hermione Chnistine." He picked her up in strong, young arms and laid her gently on the couch, then returned to the calendar and printed Herm, at the bottom of the page. Some of the bitterness spilled out of Christine in two more tears. "Oh, Mama, Mama!" 'The small garment before her blurred out of all recognition, and with it the years dissolved, twelve of them. Eee & GHE was seven, Donnie five, Naaman eight, and Mama—oh, A PATTERN FOR CHRISTINE Mama was sweet and gay and kind and ageless. 'They were on the long back porch of their small home in the kindly, country town. The old washer sang rhythmically, "Kerbump-sp-lash, ker-bump-sp-lash," as Naaman swung the lever back and forth, back and forth. Donnie, standing on a crude homemade stool, clung tenaciously to the lever handle, below Naaman's hands. "What makes you so ambitious?" asked Naaman, scowling at Donnie's persistence. "I want to help, too shrilled his reply. Mama swirled more bluing balls through the rinsing water of the tubs between Christine and _ her, then grasped the handle of the old wringer, fastened to the washing bench. She turned slowly, as Christine fed the clothes through from the first tub. "Oh, Mama, Mrs. Boyne has such pretty pillowslips. Look at this A spray of lilacs grew above the hemline of the slip she held up. "It's nice to be handy with the needle," said Mama. "Things like that can grow out of idle afternoons and sitting, of an evening. I'm going to start you on that little piece with the French knots the first night I get caught up with my ironing." A sputtering noise came from the kitchen as Mama wrung the last piece through. "The boiler!" She ran to the stove. "Naaman, dear, please help Mama out with the boiler." With Naaman gone, the dasher, under Donnie's hand alone, almost ceased to turn. Mama and Naaman set the boiler on the porch. Mama lifted the clothes out with " Donnie 295 a long stick, delightedly. "They are white today. 'That last batch of soap we made was the nght recipe, at last." "After they're blued, they look pretty as shadows on the snow," Christine observed. "They're beautiful," Mama enthusiastically agreed. The washer was rhythmically splashing again. One basketful was ready to hang. "Mama," Naaman glared down at the top of Donnie's head, and rolled his eyes upward suggestively. Mama nodded, and called to him, "Donnie, would you like to be a man and help Mama hang?" Donnie left the washer and skipped over to her. "Let me wear the clothespins." She tied the faded embroidered bag around his chest. He reached into the big, bulging pockets and handed her the pins. Christine could hear the spank of the clothes as Mama shook them out smooth. The alarm clock on the bench rang. Christine shut it off. "T'wenty minutes, Naaman. 'There's only one washerful left." "Lucky day! My arm's stiff." "Well, I'll turn the wringer while you feed." "Say, Chris, I've got a new hiding place for tonight when we play Run, Sheep, Run." "You couldn't have. Tell me." "Can't. The captain might not choose us on the same side. But I've got it all figured out." "Now just the socks." Christine gingerly picked up the socks, one at a time, in two fingers, and dropped them into the machine. "Well, Mrs. Boyne is all cleaned up," announced Naaman, and flung 296 himself into the shade of the apple tree at the corner of the porch. "All clean," echoed Donnie, doing the same. Christine rested in the swing, her feet dangling on the cracked ce ment. 'The quiet of their little world and the coolness of the shade enveloped her in the old peace again. Mama soon came out with a basket of clean, ironed clothes. A dish towel was spread across the top and tucked in at the sides. "Whose is that load, Mama?" "Sister Nolte's. And here, Naaman, put Sister Nolte's dollar in this little purse when she pays you, and be sure to snap it closed before you put it into your pocket." Then she brought a plate with bread and jam, three pieces. "And here is a slice each, with my new pottawatomie jam on, for my workmen." "I want the white piece," shouted Donnie, helping himself to the top slice. Naaman and Christine put the basket on Naaman's worn wagon, Naaman pulling, and Christine holding the basket steady. When Christine looked back, Donnie was giving Mama a hug. He had the slice in one hand, and the long willow for driving the town cows home from the pasture, in the other. She guessed it was time for Donnie to go; after all, it was a long way to the town pasture, and the shadows were long on the wide, unpaved road before them. She knew it made Donnie feel important to earn his bit that way. T seemed a long, warm trip to Sister Nolte's. "Hold the gate back farther, Christine, this load's wider than the basket." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 They turned the handle, shmilling the doorbell fastened on the middle of Sister Nolte's door. Sister Nolte opened it finally. A pleated white apron edged with lace circled her generous waistline over the maroon alpaca dress with the long sleeves and the immense skirts. Even in June she wore a small, thin, silk-brocaded black shawl around her shoulders. "Ah, you solla bairn. Come in, come in." She patted their heads and smoothed their hair, and helped put the basket on the hall floor. "Come in the parlor and sit." She opened the unused room and a musty odor drifted out. "We'll sit out under the umbrella tree and wait, Sister Nolte. It's cool out there." "All right, if you want. Right out with the money." They sank down under the drooping old tree, their backs against the trunk. Naaman flexed his pocket knife. He flipped it from his elbow, his shoulder, his head. It stood upright in the grass, vibrating. Christine searched the grass for a fourleafed clover. 'The door opened again; a round tray appeared with a large sugar bowl on it made of blue glass with little bubbles here and there, and a wide gold edge and handle. It was heaped with little white cubes of lump sugar. Sister Nolte followed. "A lilla to speece, maybe?" She hovered over them. She gave each a heavy, grooved, red glass tumbler. "It is juice from raspberries and currants, mixed." She pressed on them a plate of scalloped cookies with crystallized sugar on top. Pll be A PATTERN FOR CHRISTINE "Oh, thank you, Sister Nolte." "Now you eat.'"" She labored toward the house, calling her husband, "Lilla Chrestian, betta Chrestian!"' "What are the seeds in these cookies?" asked Naaman. "They always taste so funny." "She's from the Old Country, Naaman, and I guess she brought them from there. Funny tasti