[Vol21 | October 1934 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Article | Title: Social Service]

Social Service (Fourth Week in December) ROBERT OWEN AND FACTORY. REFORMS We come now to the study of a man who pioneered the way in factory reforms in England, who made the lot of factory workers everywhere a little less unendurable than it was and less than it would now be if he had not lived. Robert Owen, of course, was more than a reformer of factory 'work; he was a pioneer in social reform on a large scale; but we shall here be concerned only with his efforts to improve working conditions in the English factory. 1. The Industrial Revolution In order, however, to understand the work of Robert Owen in this aspect, it is necessary for us to learn just how it was that his work became so imperative in his time. The necessity arose out of what is called in social history the Industrial Revolution, but what might better be termed the Industrial Evolution. Before 1760
England was an agricultural commonwealth. With the exception of such towns as London, which then had a population of fewer than one hundred thousand inhabitants, people lived in small towns and villages, with a county government. Spinning and weaving were done in the home or in the house of a small master?the spinning by the women and the weaving by the men. Manufacturing divided the time of the workers with the cultivation of small tracts of land. Moreover, the manufacture of cloth was carried on, not with a view to profit, but rather for the purpose of use and exchange. Thus England was a land of peasants. But. Between the year 1733 and the year 1785 there took place a ? series of discoveries and inventions that altered the face of things for Englishmen and for the world. In 1733
John Kay invented the flying shuttle; in 1770 the spinning jenny by Hargreaves came into use; in the period covered by the years 1769 to 1775
Richard Arkwright perfected the roller spinning frame, which was operated by water power; in 1779 came the mule, invented by Samuel Crompton, which enabled the English worker to compete in the manufacture of delicate muslin with the deft fingers of the East Indian. The power loom, by Cartwright, was invented in 1785.
With the discovery of the use of steam, by Watt, in 1769, the factory was able to increase its output by substituting steam power for water power; and then factories moved from the banks of various streams into the town and the city. In addition coal was used instead of charcoal?which speeded up the production of this fuel from 68,000 tons in 1788 to 1,347,000 tons in 1839. The instrumentalities of the industrial revolution in England were thus complete. One can almost guess the effect of this change in industry. In the first place, England was no longer an agricultural commonwealth, but an industrial and agricultural nation. In the second place, new problems of government and society arose, which it took a long time to solve properly, so quickly did they spring up.
Before that, no provision had been made in the counties for the government of cities ? at least in counties where there were no large towns. And so political government had to adjust itself to the changing LESSON DEPARTMENT situation. In the third place, competition entered into the manufacturing business. The industry became a profit-making affair.
Hence the factory owner sought by every expedient to reduce his costs, in order to increase his profit.
Thus cheap labor, child labor, and factory hazards became common. In the fourth place, industry tended more and more to concentrate in large, populous districts, and hence the large city with its slums, its tenement houses, and unsanitary conditions in certain of the poorer quarters. It was this last that aroused the interest of Robert Owen in labor conditions in connection with the factory. 2. Salient Facts in Owen's Life Robert Owen was born in Newton, Wales, in 1771, of Welsh parents. He died in 1858 at the age of eighty-seven, after having become one of the most important figures in the social development of English life and after having influenced very greatly the life of the factory worker in other nations. He must have been, even as a child, unusually intelligent. For before he was ten years old he was chosen to aid his teacher in the school and was trusted at that age to go to London to make his way in the world. The industrial revolution was then at its height in England. His native intelligence is further indicated by the fact that he overcame all the disadvantages of his early environment. His father was a tradesman, and all his relatives either tradesmen or farmers, without any social prestige of any sort. The school which he attended as a child could teach him no more than the rudiments of learning. And he was born, as already stated, in a remote 635 country village in Wales.
From ten to eighteen he was a shop-boy or assistant, first in Stamford, then in London, and finally in Manchester. He must therefore have possessed some strong personal qualities to have risen to the station he occupied in the thought and the life of the English speaking people everywhere.
When he was eighteen, he borrowed five hundred dollars and set himself up in the manufacturing business, and when he was twentynine he became head of the cotton mills in New Lanark, then the largest and best-equipped in Great Britain.
Says one of his numerous biographers:' "Owen's career up to this point is a typical romance of commerce?an adventure of the industrial revolution after the hearts of the apostles of self-help and capitalistic abstenance, well fitted to point a Victorian moral or adorn an economic tract. One expects it to end with Owen amassing a vast fortune, dying a baronet at least, and founding a great "house," with probably a seat in the Lords and a prescriptive right to order other folk about. But, in fact, Owen has never been a favorite theme for the economic tractmakers. For the story goes quite in the wrong way. "Owen made a fortune at New Lanark; but he valued his' position there, not as a means of money-making, for which he cared hardly at all, but as the chance of his life for putting into practice certain ideas which from boyhood had been developing in his mind.. He saw everywhere around him the miseries and cruelties which attended the industrial revolution, especially in its earlier stages. He saw men, women, and children maimed, stunted, and demoralized by the slavery of the new factories, condemned to work impossibly long hours under incredibly vile and unhealthy conditions, treated not as human beings, but as mere instruments for the accumulation of riches.
This whole bad business seemed to him not only wrong and indefensible in itself, but also quit unnecessary even as a means to money-making. "I can make manufacturing pay" he said to himself, and was soon to say to others, "without reducing those 636 whom I employ to misery and moral degradation." Owen's apprenticeship in business was of a nature to give him a varied experience, and prepared him excellently for his later work.
With his first employer, a Mr. McGuffog, a haberdasher, he came in contact with county-folk.
This was in Stamford. At his second employers', Flint and Palmer, in a London clothing house, he learned to deal with city-folk on a cash basis. His third employer, a Mr. Scatterfield, a retail clothier in Manchester, he became acquainted with the principle of buying on credit.
During this time he read a great deal, as his time would permit, and, with McGuffog especially, he acquired the habit of punctuality in meeting obligations when due and methods of careful bookkeeping.
Since all three merchants dealt with different kinds of goods, he received an all-round training and became a good judge of fabrics. In each case he left his employer voluntarily to follow a desire he had to get on in the world, as if he had in mind exactly what he was to be and to do. At eighteen, as we have already stated, he launched out for himself in the manufacturing business. It would be tedious to follow his rise from position to position. Besides, that is not necessary. It is sufficient to say that he rose from one managerial place to another and from part ownership to full ownership of factories, always seeking to apply his principles of group-life?sometimes with, but often without, the consent and cooperation of his partners in the business, at such times as he had partners. New Lanark, in Scotland, is chiefly notable in connection with his experiments to improve the lot of factory workers. Of greater interest, however, is it *Robert Owen (Cole), 1925, p. 12. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to know the kind of man Robert Owen was and what were his chief ideas on education.
Once he was in partnership with -a Mr. Drinkwater. Mr. Drinkwater, it seems, was anxious to make an alliance with a Mr. Oldknow, a rich manufacturer, by marrying his daughter. It seems also that a partnership with Owen would not be the best thing for him under the circumstances. So Drinkwater sent for Owen to talk the matter over. Owen, however, having suspected what was in the wind, put the contract in his pocket and went into the office of the senior partner.
Drinkwater put his proposition to abrogate the partnership?which was then more prospective than real. Thereupon Owen said: "I have brought the agreement with me, and here it is, and I now put it into the fire, because I never will connect myself with any parties who are not desirous to be united with me; but under these circumstances I cannot remain your manager with any salary you can give me." And so he left, with no prospect whatever of anything else to do. Later, after two or three years had elapsed and he had joined two rich men in the Chorlton mills, he refused to make articles which would compete with Drinkwater, whom he had left under the circumstances we have just given. On the contrary, he specialized in the manufacture of such articles as would not come into competition with those made by his old employer and partner. "There is not, I think," says Cole, "a single incident in Owen's whole career in which he tried to injure, or even showed himself angry with, any human being." His educational theory was very decided and simple. Our qualities, he thought, are given us by nature, but the direction which these qualities take is given us by society. Accordingly, he directed to the extent he was able that such environment should obtain in all his factory towns as would make for the best development of the people living there. But since, however, childhood and youth are the period of greatest growth in character-formation, it followed, he believed, that the utmost care should be exercised to see that proper educational facilities were placed at the disposal of children and young persons. 3.
Owenism in Action In 1798, when he was twenty-seven and looked younger, Owen visited Scotland, for the purpose of making some new business connections. He was then a partner in the Chorlton mills in Manchester, England.
Asked by Miss Anne Caroline Dale, whom he was to marry the next year, to visit her father's cotton mills in New Lanark, he did so, afterwards remarking to a friend that "of all the places I have yet seen, I should prefer this in order to try an experiment I have long contemplated, and have wished to have an opportunity to put in practice." The establishment, we are told, then "consisted of a primitive manufacturing Scotch village and four mills for spinning cotton."
Owen decided to acquire the property?in association, of course, with his present partners, for at the time he had only about fifteen thousand dollars.
After prolonged negotiations the Chorlton Twist Co.
Bought the New Lanark mills for approximately three hundred thousand dollars, payable in installments of fifteen thousand dollars a year. In January, 1800, Owen, now married, took up his residence in the Scottish town. New Lanark mills had been founded in 1782, by David Dale and Richard Arkwright, but, two years later, the partnership was dissolved, and 637
Dale became full owner. As a matter of fact, he was what is called a benevolent employer, for he had paid his workers once when the mills had burned down and they were unemployed, he had provided for the education of the workers' children, and he had supplied goods to the workers more cheaply, through a store of his own, than they could otherwise have bought them. And he had done this in spite of the fact that he seldom visited the mills himself.
Conditions there were typically bad. "Drunkneness and immorality were very prevalent; thieving was common in every department of the works; housing conditions were disgusting, and filth was everywhere, both in the houses and in the streets of the village. The people were, indeed, for the most part very religious; but they belonged to many rival and disputing sects, so that they quarrelled fiercely, and seemed to consider their religion a sufficient excuse for the living of evil lives.'"" There were between seventeen and eighteen hundred men, women, and children in New Lanark then, of whom more than four hundred were between five and ten years of age, although these were officially given as being from seven to twelve. All worked thirteen hours a day, even the children, with an hour and fifteen minutes for meals. The great majority of families, no mater how large, occupied but a single room.
Acting on his theory that environment is made for and not by the individal, he first looked to the physical conditions in the factory and in the village. He rearranged the machinery, enlarged the houses by adding another story, and 'laid out the streets with an eye to both beauty and cleanliness. He abolished all the "Robert Owen (Cole), p. 71.
These are Owen's own words and may be colored somewhat, Cole thinks, 638 privately owned whiskey shops, and established stores owned by the firm, in which a "better grade" of whiskey was sold.
Buying everything on a large scale, as he says, he was able to sell the workers supplies at twenty-five per cent less than they had been paying; and all these articles were of the best grade. Sanitation, also, attracted his attention. As stated, each family now had two rooms. He did away with the practice of dumping refuse in the streets; this was now carted away periodically.
Health visitors saw to it that the inside of houses was kept clean.
After that came the conduct of workers in the factory. Theft, which was common, was overcome by a careful system of checks. "He reduced the hours of work to ten and a half, or twelve including mealtimes, at the beginning of 1816, provided free medical attendance for all, started a Sick Club and a Savings Bank, threw open the woods as a public pleastre-ground, and in general pursued his course as by far the most enlightened employer of his time. But he did even more for the children. It will be remembered that his theory of education was that it was the children's, not the adult's, environment which most needed to be created or changed. And here he put his theory into practice. No child was employed till it reached the age of ten. Up to that age it spent its time in school. In summer its education was carried on in the open air, and the system included singing, dancing, music, and, in the case of boys, military exercises. For the children over ten, there were evening schools; and for adults "accommodations for reading, writing, accounting, sewing, playing, talking, and walking, as well as regular lectures, dances, and concerts in the hall of the institution. No restraint RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was placed on private judgment or religious'opinion." It is curious that he believed wickedness and misery "have proceeded solely from the ignorance of our forefathers." All this was accomplished gradually.
Owen did not believe in sudden revolutions. It took twenty-eight years to bring about these changes, during which he had, at first, to combat the ill-will of his employees. He did not believe in force, but only persuasion.
Only toward the beginning was he handicapped by lack of money. Moreover, during the years from 1813 to 1828 he became a public character, mainly on account of the fact that he was able to make money and at the.
Same time treat his workers with humanity. In consequence people came from almost every country to study his ideal factory town, New Lanark. Questions ? 1.
Compare child labor in Owen's time with our present child labor laws. 2. At what age may children be legally employed, according to the school law of your community? 3.
What is the difference between child labor and children's work? 4. A form of unemployment insurance was instituted when the workmen at New Lanark were paid on the burning of the mill and they were unemployed through no fault of their own.
Unemployment insurance is now a national issue.
Discuss the Wagner-Lewis bill, introduced in the Congress in February, 1934. (See Graphic Survey for March, 1934.) Discuss these topics, introduced by Owen: (a) Health officials (who made the visits?); (b) Reduction of hours of work; (c) free medical care; (d) sick benefits; (e) savings; (f) recreation; (g) education, both child and adult; (h) environment, LESSON DEPARTMENT Discuss the comparative value of human beings and money, as emphasized by Owen. In what way were his policies and system spread to other countries and communities. 639
What is industrial insurance? Workmen's compensation? Are workmen in your community covered by these provisions? Mission Lessons LESSON III]. HEALTH AND HOME NURSING FEVER AND CONTAGION "Prevention is better than cure." FEVER Buy a fever thermometer and learn how to read it. Shake the mercury down below 97 degrees. After cleansing the thermometer properly in cold water and alcohol, place the bulb under the patient's tongue, leave it there for three minutes. If the patient is unconscious do not take the temperature by mouth. Johnny's stomach ache may be appendicitis, especially if it is accompanied by a fever. Know how high the fever goes instead of worrying about it. Some mothers take fevers for granted. One will say, "Mary had a fever yesterday." Then you see Mary outside playing with yesterday's warning signal forgotten. Fever may usher in almost any disease. Some people run a high fever from slight causes; others though acutely ill, manifest little change in temperature. Certain types of fever are characteristic of certain diseases?the high irregular up and down curve of influenza, or ear infections; the afternoon rise in tuberculosis; the continuous high fever of typhoid and pneumonia; the low fever of minor infections of the nose and throat. Fever affects people differently. One is made restless, irritable and wakeful, another may be quite drowsy, and sleep all the time. The skin becomes hot to the touch, while the feet and hands are cold. The patient is very thirsty, and usually makes repeated demands for water. The eyes may be bright or dull and listless; usually there is no evidence of perspiration. After some days of fever the lips become cracked or crusted. The mouth is dry and the tongue coated. The urine is often concentrated, dark in color, with a strong odor. These are some of the symptoms of fever, but the true test of the condition is the thermometer. The normal temperature of the body is ninety-eight and four-tenths degrees. There may be in good health a slight variance either way, but if the mercury on the thermometer, after being placed under the tongue for the proper length of time, registers much above the little arrow, we say that the person has a fever. We must never guess at fever by placing our hand upon the patient's head. The temperature should be read accurately by means of the thermometer and a notation made, as well as the time of taking the temperature. Fever is really a protective process. We are not so much interested in the fever itself, but rather in the disease that produces the fever. It has been proven that fever kills germs and already in some of the hospitals there are electrical ma

  chines which will produce artificial fever in a person to help cure the disease. Let us no longer, then, be frightened by moderate degrees of temperature. If the temperature is not over 100 degrees in children, it is not excessive, and there is no particular cause for alarm.
Fever is only a symptom of disease and not a cause, and may even be friendly. Babies, very young children, and adults who are unconscious or very sick should have their temperature taken by rectum by placing the bulb of the thermometer, after it has been well greased with vasoline or olive oil, in the rectum. Let us remember that temperatures taken in the rectum are always one degree higher than temperatures taken by the mouth under the same condition. We should always designate to the doctor not only the amount of fever present, but as to whether or not it was a mouth or rectal temperature.
Generally with the increase in temperature there are two other signals of trouble, namely?a rapid pulse and too frequent breathing. It is still best to take the pulse on the thumb side of the inner portion of the wrist, and we should count it for one whole minute. The pulse varies during the different ages of life. In infants it may be as frequent as one hundred and thirty times per minute; in children under ten years of age it runs normally around ninety beats per minute; in adults we may be able to count anywhere from sixty to seventy-five beats per minute and still be well within the range of normal. The same disease which produces a high fever also increases the pulse rate, and this rate should be recorded at the same time the temperature is taken.
When we are resting quietly, our breathing, if we count the respirations for one minute, would be about eighteen. Fever, like running or excitement, increases the number of respirations per minute, and in some lung diseases this increase may be very marked. Let us remember then that three of the danger signals of illness are fever, rapid pulse and hurried breathing. The patient, unless she be too ill, too young, or too nervous will further assist us by telling us definitely how she feels, the location of the pain or the distress and the presence or acuteness of tenderness. Tenderness, we should remember, is pain in any part, produced by pressure. If the temperature is above one hundred degrees, the patient should be put to bed and in all but the very simple cases the Doctor should be called to help us find the cause of the trouble. As a detective of illness, we must observe all?the eyes, the skin, the mouth and throat, the cough, the voice, the bowels and the mental condition.
These will help us to run down the fugitive disease. If we make our notations on a piece of paper: the pulse rate, the temperature, and the breathing, counting each for one full minute and recording the same, recording also the time and date the observations were made, such a simplified home record will be of great benefit to the Doctor, if we need help later on. It is not for us to remember even the names of all the diseases that produce fever; rather let us remember a few of the important things to do for the fever patient until help arrives. First?Put the patient to bed, if possible away from the rest of the family, in a clean, well lighted room. Second?A warm sponge bath may be given for cleanliness. A hot foot bath is always good, and a couple of tablespoonfuls of mustard, previously stirred to a uniform cream, in a cupful of hot water, helps the foot bath. If the patient is very LESSON DEPARTMENT sick, such a foot bath may be given in bed.
Towels wrung out of cold water and placed over the eyes and forehead, are helpful. If the patient is chilling use plenty of blankets on the bed and hot water bottles. Hot water bottles' should never be more than half filled, and always wrapped in cloth and never allowed to come in contact with the patient's skin. The diet should be light; fruit juices, a little milk toast, some clear soup, a little jello or a little ice cream. It is better to be very sparing with the diet and very generous with the fluids.
Water in small quantities at frequent intervals is more important to the fever patient than food.
Laxatives should not be given, especially if the patient complains of abdominal pain.
Pain is always a danger signal.
Small warm enemas, not over a quart, and repeated if necessary, are safer than laxatives.
Sunlight is a powerful disinfectant and a valuable aid toward recovery. The sun is as beneficial to the human body as to the growing plant and is needed in every sick room. Contagion The great challenge to our civilization today is the contagious disease. It is to be hoped that in the near future, the contagious disease will be no more.
From one single case of contagious disease, if not well guarded, there may follow hundreds. Smallpox, the scourge of a hundred years ago, has been whipped completely. Its presence now is only a curiosity and a testimony that someone evaded vaccination.
Typhoid fever depends upon contaminated food and in communities where the water and milk supply are safe, this disease is rare. In the presence of an epidemic, boil the water and milk; and cook the vegetables.
Remember that typhoid vac641 cination will save you from this dreaded disease. Diphtheria, which can choke a child to death: in less than twentyfour hours, still stalks about. We can now immunize our children against this dreaded disease.
Such immunization is not painful, it is sure, and we hope will eventually stamp out this disease.
Measles and whooping cough still thrive, and are always present.
Over ninety per cent of all persons have these diseases some time in their lives.
Parents should carefully guard young children against exposure and not forget that the younger the child, the more fatal the disease is apt to be. Scarlet Fever is one of the most dangerous diseases of childhood, and may so weaken the body that other serious diseases follow. A sore throat is apt to be the first complaint. The scarlet rash may follow three days later.
Beware of any person with sore throat. Pneumonia, tuberculosis and influenza still claim their victims, and leave destruction in their wake.
Against these agents, there are no specific remedies. A healthy body aids in protection. Necessary, sufficient, and suitable food, adequate sleep and rest, fresh air and exercise, proper protection against cold and wet, all of these combine to build up protection against disease.
Radiant health should be the objective. Tuberculosis, which once occupied first place among the causes of death in America, has now moved back to seventh place.
Better hygiene, fresh air, sunshine and good food have helped bring this condition about.
More important, however, in the fight against Tuberculosis, is the education of the people to the value of early diagnosis of the disease.
Tuberculosis causes Tuberculosis?every case comes from another?early discovery, early recovery.
Watch for these danger signs?too easily tired, loss of weight, indigestion, and the cough that hangs on.
Persons who suffer from insufficient food, exposure, and bad housing, long hours and bad conditions of work, are more prone to the disease. An ounce of fresh air is still worth more than a pound of cough syrup.
Cough is the policeman of the lung. A long continued cough, with loss of body weight and an evening rise in temperature are danger signals of impending calamity. It cannot be too strongly emphasized that the chief agent in the spread of disease is man himself.
The care of the Tubercular patient is very important. It is necessary to use sputum cups and all the discharges from the nose and throat must be burned. He must have his own dishes, and towels, and live apart from other members of the family. Tuberculosis is one of the sputum born diseases, and can be controlled by individual action, and cleanliness, since it is a germ disease. The human hand is the great carrier of disease germs, both to and from the body. Unclean hands must be kept away from the mouth. Our public agencies are doing much to keep our food and drink free from disease contamination. We have only our hands and our homes to keep clean.