[Vol21 | October 1934 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Socialized Class Work]

Socialized Class Work ROM reports that come to us it is evident that many class leaders in the Literary Department do not socialize their. Work. It is easier for them to give their lesson as a lecture, and they like the finished result.
Some give as an excuse that they cannot get the members to participate. We feel that every teacher who habitually does all the work herself is making a serious mistake. She is depriving the class members of the development that they are entitled to. One teacher recently said, "I can get participation from any group anywhere if I study the 'problem and work hard enough." The profits of participation are so evident that we are surprised that any teacher is unwilling to make the effort to draw out her class. We urge each teacher to make a special study of drawing out the quiet retiring members of her class. Let her gage her success by the number who participate in the recitation. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in December) THE POWER OF PRAYER 1. An Accepted Principle. The Latter-day Saints need no conversion to the principle of prayer; the very existence of their Church is traceable to it. It is doubtful indeed that Deity would have revealed himself in these the latter days if there had been no one with sufficient faith to call upon him for help and guidance. But there was such an individual in the person of the youthful Joseph Smith: His faith was of such a nature, that when he appealed to heaven for wisdom, both the Father and the Son appeared in person to answer. Later, other and still other heavenly personages came to him, each with a message for his further guidance and instruction.
Following his first vision, the Prophet sought the Lord in prayer almost continuously, and, as a result, his accomplishments were far ahead of uninspired human attainment. He translated the Book of Mormon; he translated the Book of Abraham, and he produced the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, also the Book of Moses. In addition, he organized the Church ?unequalled the world over in point of government and doctrine. He thus gave impetus to a movement that is going steadily forward, and destined eventually to fill the whole world. All this was accomplished by heavenly inspiration, obtained through the gateway of prayer. 2. The Divine Exemplar. The Savior himselfi?although the very Son of God?almost continuously appealed to the Father in prayer. It is recorded that on one occasion He prayed through the entire night.
Shortly before His crucifixion, He met with His apostles in an upper room at Jerusalem. Here He administered the sacrament, and gave much instruction pertaining to the duties of those who were to remain. After He had done this, He lifted up His eyes to heaven and gave utterance to the immortal statement, "Father the hour is come; Glorify the Son, that the Son may also glorify thee I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was." (Read John 17, the entire chapter.) Then, after passing over the brook Cedron, He prayed again, leaving his disciples to watch as He did so.
Even while suffering the agonies of the cross, He continued His supplications to the Father.
Surely the attitude of the Messiah should be an example to all. 3. Modern Example. The Father and the Son appeared to the youthful Joseph Smith as the result of prayer, in the early springtime of 1820.
Some three and one-half years later, on the twenty-first of September, 1823, the Prophet sought the Lord in prayer and asked for a manifestation that he might know of his standing before the Lord in answer to which the angel Moroni appeared at his bedside, standing in the air in the midst of a light brighter than noonday.
While translating the Nephite records at Harmony, Pennsylvania, in May of 1829, the LESSON DEPARTMENT Prophet and Oliver Cowdery sought the Lord in prayer concerning certain matters relating to baptism. In answer to this appeal, John the Baptist appeared to them and conferred upon them the Aaronic Priesthood.
Several years later, the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery importuned the Lord in prayer behind the sacred veil of the temple at Kirtland, and the Son of God appeared in all His transcendent glory and power; and thus the history of the early development of the Church runs.
Revelation after revelation received by the Prophet is prefaced by words such as these, "I enquired of the Lord, and I received the following."
Indeed the entire history of Joseph Smith is characteristically one of prayer and of the answers thereto.
Without prayer there would have been no vision; and without vision the people perish. 4. Scriptural Injunctions. One of the earliest revelations received by the Prophet contains the following significant promise: "Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." (Doc. And Cov. 4:7.) In various forms this same promise is repeated scores of times in later revelations of the Doctrines and Covenant, perhaps primarily for the purpose of further emphasis. A few illustrations: To Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the Lord said: "Tf thou wilt enquire, thou wilt know mysteries which are great and marvelous; therefore thou shalt exercise thy gift, that thou mayest find out mysteries, that thou mayest bring many to the knowledge of the truth, yea, convince them of the error of their ways." (Doc. And Cov. 6:11.) Again: "Blessed art thou for what thou hast done; for thou hast inquired of me, and behold, as often as thou hast inquired thou hast received instruction of my Spirit." 625 (Doc. And Cov. 6:14.) Later when Oliver Cowdery desired to be endowed with the gift of translation, the Lord said to him: "Whatsoever you shall ask me to tell you by that means, that I will grant unto you, and you shall have knowledge concerning it." (Doc. And Cov. 8:9.) To Martin Harris, who was the first to come to the Prophet's financial assistance, the Lord said: "Pray always, and I will pour out my Spirit upon you, and great shall be your blessings?yea, even more than if you should obtain treasures of earth and corruptibleness to the extent therefor. Behold, canst thou read this without rejoicing and lifting up thy heart for gladness?" (Doc. And Cov. 19:38, 39.) To twelve elders who were about to go forth two by two the Lord said: "If thou shalt ask, thou shalt receive revelation upon revelation, knowledge upon knowledge, that thou mayest know the mysteries and peaceable things? that which bringeth joy, that which bringeth life eternal." (Doc. And Cov. 42:61.). 5. In a revelation to the Church, at Kirtland, the Lord gave the following command: "Ye are commanded in all things to ask of God, who giveth liberally; and that which the Spirit testifies unto you, even so I would that ye should do so in all holiness of heart, walking uprightly before me, considering the end of your salvation, doing all things with prayer and thanksgiving." (Doc. And Cov. 46:7.) Seemingly somewhat in despair because of the weakness of certain of his people in Missouri, the Lord said: "This is my will; ask and ye shall receive; but men do not always do my will." (Doc. And Cov. 103:31.) Statements similar to the foregoing could be cited almost without number, but these are sufficient for present purpose.
There can 626 be no doubt of what the Lord expects of his people in this matter. 6. Exacting Requirements.
Deity discloses that he has given a law unto all things, and that whosoever is not able to abide the law cannot receive the blessing. (Read Doc. And Cov. 88:22-48.) The laws of God are not merely mandatory statements designed to test the attitude of His children; on the contrary, they are an expression of veritable realities which must be implicitly obeyed if the blessing is obtained.
Answer to prayer is not an exception. If Deity is to reward our supplications we must comply with His requirements, and this too, with the utmost care and precision. We would not expect to obtain a desired chemical reaction without complying with necessary conditions.
Neither should we expect to have our prayer answered unless we are equally as meticulous in conforming with requirements.
Briefly the conditions are as follows: 7. In his widely quoted statement touching this matter, James, a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, makes it clear that unwavering faith is essential to the answering of prayers.
Here are his words: "But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven of the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. A double minded man is unstable in all his ways." (James 1: 6-8.) 8.
Reference has already been made to Oliver Cowdery's ambition to translate, also to the Lord's reply to him. The Lord further said: "Doubt not Remember that without faith you can do nothing; therefore ask in faith.
Trifle not with these things; do not ask for that which you ought not.' Later the Lord informed Oliver Cowdery RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that his prayers had not been answered because he had taken no thought "save it was to ask."
Then the Lord said further: "You must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore you shall feel that it is right." (Doc. And Cov. 9:81.) From the foregoing it appears that we must not only ask in faith, nothing wavering, but that we must ask only for the things that we need. Moreover, we must work for the fulfillment of our prayers. Then, again, the Lord limits His blessings to the things which are expedient for us.
Here are His words: "Whatsoever ye ask the Father in my name it shall be given unto you, that is expedient for you." (Doc. And Cov. 88:64.) 9. It is quite apparent from the foregoing that a prayer acceptable to the Lord consists of far more than merely a verbal utterance. The request must be devoid of selfishness; it must contain only that which is expedient; it must be made with unwavering faith; and the individual must do whatever he can to bring about the fulfillment.
This is prayer, whether voiced or unexpressed. It is a condition of the soul, and not merely a combination of words. It involves faith, intelligence, and work. 10.
Prayer and the Operation of Natural Law.
Here and there certain seemingly well informed people doubt the efficacy of prayer on the assumption that petitions to the Father cannot be answered without the infraction of natural law.
Such people would assume, for example, that an appeal for the restoration of health could not be answered without violating or obstructing the operation of the laws of nature.