EDITORIAL NOTES.
	A new book of prose and poetry will soon
be issued from the press, by Louisa L.
Greene Richards, the well-known writer,
a regular contributor to the Juvenile Instruc-
tor and occasionally to other periodicals
The title of the work is “Branches that
Run over the Wall,” derived from a lengthy
poem (contained in the volume) paraphrased
from the forepart of the Book of Mormon.
Elder George Reynolds and President
Anthon H. Lund have both spoken highly
of this particular poem. A prospectus of
the book has already been issued with the
view of giving friends the opportunity of
subscribing for the book in advance. The
price is one dollar per copy.
	The editor of this paper earnestly re-
quests that all complaints concerning the
paper be made to her, either personally or
by letter, so that the missionary sisters or
others may not be troubled with them, as
the Relief Society is in no way responsible
for any mistakes, or neglect in the manage-
ment of the editorial business or mailing
department. Out of kindness the sisters
who visit the conferences speak for the in-
crease of the circulation of the paper, because
it is the one paper that stands for the Relief
Society and publishes in its interest news,
minutes, history, deaths of prominent so-
ciety workers and important matters con-
cerning them, also sketches of the lives of
distinguished pioneers, etc., which consti-
tutes it the official organ and it is positively
necessary to those engaged in this depart-
ment of the work of the Church.
	The Relief Society in Cannon Ward of
this stake was reorganized Thursday, Au-
gust 6, 1903. The meeting was held in the
home of Sister S. J. Cannon, Bishop Lewis
T. Cannon and Counselor Gold officiating.
President M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt
Lake Stake, and her counselors were pres-
sent, also General President Bathsheba
W. Smith, Counselor Annie T. Hyde and
General Secretary E. B. Wells. A goodly
number of the local society were in attend-
ance. Sister Rebecca Sharp was chosen
president, to fill the vacancy caused by the
recent death of Sister Caroline Y. Cannon,
and Sister A. J. Cannon and Ellen W. Sil-
ver were chosen counselors. Martha T.
Cannon was retained as secretary, and Sis-
ter Emma Hall was elected treasurer.
These sisters were set apart by Bishop Can-
non and Counselor Gold. After the meet-
ing adjourned dainty refreshments were
served to all present at the meeting.
	The Daughters of the Utah Pioneers held
their first meeting of the season at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Isabel M. W. Sears at Water-
loo, Thursday, Sep. 24, 1903, President
Alice Merrill Horne in the chair, assisted
by her counselor, at whose home the society
convened. The program was carried out
as had been arranged. The meeting was
very interesting, the address of Mrs. Eliza-
beth Nebeker, who related incidents of the
visit of Joseph Smith the Prophet, when


he was at their home in Chester Co., Penn-
sylvania, at the time of his return from his
trip to Washington to call upon the Presi-
dent of the United States. She was then a
little girl about nine years old, but the im-
pression he made upon her was so strong
that she remembers it vividly to this day
and she graphically described it so that all
present were able to make a picture of it in
their minds. It is another instance now on
record of the Prophet’s sweet, gentle nature
with children. Mrs. Minnie Loveland
Snow gave her readings, which were highly
appreciated and deserve special mention;
the articles were evidently prepared with
thought and certainly well written. Miss
Hazel Smoot Taylor, of Provo, sang, with
spirit the hymns of Zion, sublimely
in her sweet-toned voice, and the Daugh-
ters are very grateful to her, and also Miss
Clarissa Dougall who accompanied her on
the piano. The spirit of the meeting was
characteristic of the subjects treated upon
and the object of the society.


