		MARY STUBBS HINDLEY.
“Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord.”

“Like weary and worn-out children, that sigh for
	the daylight’s close,
He knows that they oft are sighing, for home and
	its sweet repose;
So he calls them in from their labors, ere the shad-
	ows around them creep,
And silently watching o’er them, He giveth His
	loved ones sleep.”

	The subject of this sketch, Sister Mary S. Hind-
ley, was born in Middewich, Cheshire, England,
December 14, 1818, and died at her home in
American Fork, May 20, 1903, in her eighty-fifth
year.
	Sister Hindley was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in January,
1848, and with her husband emigrated to Amer-
ca in 1850, and in 1853 came across the plains
with ox-teams, and in December of the same year
settled in American Fork, which was her home
until her death.
	She was chosen president of the Relief Society
of American Fork at its first organization in Octo-
ber, 1868, which position she filled with credit and
efficiency; and in fact she possessed unusual exec-
utive ability in managing affairs.
	In the spring of 1895, in consequence of ad-
vanced years and failing health, she resigned her
position as president, after twenty-seven years of

[Column 2]
faithful, energetic and conscientious labor. In that
position she extended help and succor with a lib-
eral hand yet was ever mindful of the true objects
of the society, and thus gained the love and esteem
of those with whom she was thus associated. Her
unswerving integrity and strict sense of justice,
with her fidelity to those with whom she labored
will cause her to be ever remembered with love
and respect by her colaborers. One eminent trait
in her character was her devotion to the principles
of celestial marriage, and though having no chil-
dren of her own, yet she cherished with the most
tender love the children of her fellow-wives. In
all, her noble character and good deeds are worthy
of emulation by all those who like her are laboring
in the interests of the Gospel. One pleasing attri-
bute of her character was her large hospitality,
she loved to have her friends in her home and to
entertain them liberally. Sister Eliza R. Snow
greatly admired Sister Hindley, and with her and
with Sister Zina D. H. Young the writer of these
last few lines has spent many happy hours in Sis-
ter Hindley’s company. She deserves a tribute of
praise for her zeal in advancing the interests of
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT. She was one who ap-
preciated blessings, a woman of prayer. She has
gone to meet the husband of her youth, who has
waited these many years, and to receive the re-
ward of those who are purified through suffering.

	“There endless is the pleasure,
		There countless is the gain,
	Past all degree and measure,
		Reward shall comfort pain.”


