				BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	In looking up items of history we find a
letter from St. George dated January 2,
1878, written to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
by our dearly beloved Susa, daughter of
President Young, from which we wish to 
make a few extracts for this history.
	“Yesterday (Jan. 1) the Temple in this
city, or a portion of it, was dedicated; doors
were opened at 12 o’clock m., and closed a 
quarter to one.” After mentioning the
throng of people that had gathered, the
president’s arrival and also Apostle Wilford
Woodruff and Erastus Snow and the doors
were closed, she makes special mention of
the congregation singing the hymn, “The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning,” and
the prayer by Apostle Wilford Woodruff in
which he besought the Lord’s blessing upon
the Relief Society throughout the world and
also upon all the sisters who had contri-
buted in any way to the building of the
Temple. Sister Susa says in her letter
that this was a most impressive prayer;
She also mentioned other prayers that were
offered and the powerful discourse of Presi-
dent Young on that great occasion which
those present will never forget. This was the
first temple built in the valley of the Rocky
Mountains and the sisters assisted in var-
ious ways, more especially those located in
that place and the southern settlements.
	To give an idea of the work being done
in the country places about this time we
will take an item from Huntsville dated


March 3, 1877. “The society numbers one
hundred and fifty members and but very
few poor in our midst. Funds on hand
amounting to $285.00, a few head of sheep,
shares in the co-operative store, $140.00 and
in the Relief Society store in Ogden City,
$38.00. We have committees appointed
to buy wheat and store it, to be used in
the future for the benefit of the Saints, ac-
cording to the counsel which may be given
through the prophet of God upon the earth.
Both old and young seem to take great in
terest in attending our meetings regularly
and in gaining useful knowledge pertaining
to our religion. The EXPONENT is very
much appreciated, etc.” Mary J. Ham-
mond was president at that time and Mary
Hall secretary.


