		EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Another important matter in connection
with the Relief Society work counseled by
President Brigham Young was the storing
of grain by the sisters. By his express wish
the writer of this history prepared an edi-
torial on this subject and submitted to him
for revision. President Young approved
what had been written and added another 
paragraph, which reads as follows:

	President Young further advises the sisters that
 they enter into such arrangements as are applic-
able to their circumstances in their various dis-
tricts and settlements, to build storehouses for the
storing of their grain in the sections of country as
they shall divide off, or apportion to certain local-
ities; also that they solicit donations from their hus-
bands and the brethren to assist them in carrying
out this enterprise, both for the building of the
storehouses and also in obtaining grain to fill
them and preserve it for future need.

	This part of the editorial was written at
his dictation. It was published in this
paper, October 15, 1876, and the entire edi-
torial has been republished twice since.
Perhaps this counsel caused as much talk
pro and con as any advice ever given to the
sisters in regard to their labors. This
counsel was given previous to any stake
organization of the Relief Society. In the
suggestions made to the editor President
Young said this:

	The Relief Society and co-operative organiza-
tions in which some of the women of this territory
are interested have funds at their disposal from
time to time which may be made available in this
work, and it is no doubt the best investment of
means that could be made. If the prophecies of
the ancient and modern prophets and of Joseph
Smith are to be fulfilled, which the Saints profess
to believe, there will be a desolating famine in the
land, and if the women of this territory will heark-
en to counsel it will be the temporal salvation of
this people in case of emergency.

	On November 11, 1876, just after the
counsel had been given at the General Re-
trenchment Association meeting held in the
Fourteenth Ward assembly rooms in this
city the subject of arrangements in regard
to the grain question was brought before
the sisters. Sister Eliza R. Snow, who was
presiding in the absence of President M.
Isabella Horne, proposed that the officers
of the several organizations of the Relief
Society act in the capacity of a committee
to collect means to buy and store up grain;
that besides these committees of separate
branches, in order to facilitate the work,
there should also be a central committee for
counsel and reference, to take cognizance
of all these grain matters, that there might
be perfect order and a united movement for

[Column 2]
the good of all interested. She read a 
communication from Bishop R. W. Burton
in respect to storing grain in the General
Tithing Office. The different wards that
have not established storehouses can store
their grain there, but will be expected to
attend to the arrangement themselves, as
the hands employed there have no spare
time.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow proposed to the as-
sembly, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells as chair-
man of the central committee, the motion
being made, it was seconded and carried
unanimously. It was then moved that
the chairman choose a committee of two to
act with her in this capacity constituting
the Central Committee; accordingly Miss
Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith were selected and the unanimous
vote of the assembly given to sustain them.
	The sense of the meeting was that the
Central Committee would be expected to be
posted in regard to the proceedings of the
different ward committees, as also of the ar-
rangements of the country places, that there
may be a concert of action, which will give
power and strength to this unparalleled
movement and complete system of manage-
ment.
	Following out the suggestion and this
arrangement of committees some important
work was soon done in this direction, of
which we shall have occasion to speak later
on in this history.
	President Young spent the following
winter in St. George and from there sent
at Christmas time, this dispatch:
