THE CONFLICT.
The question we are bent upon solving,
Is the question of right or of wrong;
In this age that we deem progressive[-]
We wait not for story or song;
But we plunge in the midst of life’s battles[-]
With hearts that are earnest and true,
And look up to God to direct us,
In the work we are given to do.

The work? To defend our hearthstones,
From a foeman both subtle and bold;
Who is armed with the shield of deception,
The banner of pleasure unfolds;
Whose fortress is strong and whose batteries
Are masked with such cunning and skill,
We know not the death-dealing volley,
He can pour in our homes at his will.

This foeman so crafty and cunning
Is taking from out our fair land,
From the ranks of our sons and our brothers,
The bravest and best of the land.
He is breaking the heart of the mothers,
He is silvering the brown hair with white,
And pitying angels are grieving,
With sad-hearted mothers tonight.

From wives he has taken the husbands,
From children he’s taken the bread;
And sisters bereft of their brothers,
And fathers to infamy led.
And this demon with greed still insatiate.
Takes from woman her honor and fame;
Takes all that would make life a blessing,
And leaves her but ruin and shame.

Would you know the name of this foeman,
Who seeks all our best to destroy;
This vampire that feeds on the life-blood,
That kills every hope, every joy;
This minion of Satan who serves him
With energy, purpose and will?
’Tis the rum-king, whose haunts are the dram-
	shops.
Who was cradled and nursed in the still.

For years he has ravished the people,
Denounced all the good and the true;
And the blood of brave Haddock is calling,
For vengeance that justly is due.
Our martyrs, brave Haddock and Gambrel,
Who fell in the midst of the fight.
To defend our fair land from dishonor,
Are sleeping in silence tonight.

But up from the homes have arisen
An army, demanding the right;
A band of brave, true, noble women,
Whose badge is the ribbon of white.
Before them the monster shall perish
As sure as stars shine in the skies;
As sure as God reigneth in heaven,
From the death grapple truth shall arise.
