RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Semi-annual Conference of
the Relief Society will be held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall in this city, Saturday,
October 3, 1903, meetings commencing at
10 a. m. and 2 p. m. It is desired that
each stake organization should be repre-
sented by the president or an authorized
representative. There will be an officers’
meeting in the evening in the same build-
ing at 7 p. m. sharp.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
					General President.
			ANNIE T. HYDE,
			IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY.
					Counselors.


[Column 1]
		ZION IS GROWING.
	The October Conference will soon be
here and one wonders what the showing
will be in the way of progress and develop-
ment among the Saints along the lines of
temporal growth and spiritual culture, and
what rapid strides have been made during
the past six months with the vigorous efforts
that have been put forth in missionary
endeavors at home and abroad. When we
hear that presidents of missions are arriv-
ing from all points north, south, east and
west, one naturally infers there has been
something accomplished that is worth bring-
ing account of to headquarters, and natur-
ally one, who is eager to see Zion prosper
hopes the tidings from these places brought
by these Elders is of good import. We
who dwell in Salt Lake are aware that the
information Bureau has been doing a rush-
ing business in diffusing knowledge of our
people and the Latter-day work generally,
and the thousands of strangers who have
registered there and have taken away our
literature, must at least have been more or
less enlightened upon the subject of Mor-
monism and the Mormons.
	After all, what have we who are so zeal-
ous for the work abroad and anxious to con-
vert the world, been doing towards our own
betterment here in Zion with all the super-
ior advantages and opportunities given to
make upliftment.
	What have we accomplished in our or-
organizations as women of Zion?
	We are making history every day, will it
be creditable in the summing up?
	In the Relief Society have we something
to tell of our labors during the last six
months? There has been considerable
visiting done by the missionary sisters and
such instruction as they were able and

[Column 2]
qualified to give has, we trust, been pro
ductive of a little good, and we hope to
hear at the coming conference how it has
been received, and what has been done
temporally in various localities in the line
of progress in raising of means, building,
and saving of grain for future need.
	The Mothers’ Work, which had been
started during this year has, we hope been
instrumental, not only educationally in
awakening thought, but in an increase of
membership in this very important organ-
ization.
	In some respects the Mother’s Work is
experimental and it has seemed a little dif-
ficult to bring it in with perfect harmony,
but it will perhaps convince some of the
sisters, who think there is very little talent
in their local society, that there is not such
a scarcity of good material as they had im-
agined, and that it only wants bringing out
and developing. The Gospel itself is self-
educating.
	To do a little of one’s own thinking is
very helpful and stimulating to the mind,
and it is true, gainsay it who may, that we
have among our people excellent material
for true story-telling. The thrilling, inci-
dents of this people’s history from the time
when Joseph the Prophet, only a boy, first
received the ministration of angels and holy
beings, the persecutions and marvelous de-
liverances from the power of his enemies
and the blessings vouchsafed to him from
time to time are positive proofs of the asser-
tion. Perils and escapes of the Elders in
their travels by sea and by land, are all rich
with interest and might be utilized in teach-
ing the young to great advantage; promot-
ing faith and confidence in the Lord, and
in testimony of His divine hand in the
restoration of the Gospel in the last days.
It seems more than strange to hear people
say “Where shall I find something interest-
ing to talk about or write about?” Dear
sisters, the best material you could possibly
have from which to obtain a full supply is at
hand in the every-day lives of the Latter-
day Saints.
	It has become the fashion in this day to
look for something new and wonderful, but
that which has been tried and proven, and
stood the test of time, is after all the stand-
ard. The Bible, the Book of Mormon, Church
History and Church literature have not yet
grown too old for use, nor are our young
people quite familiar with all contained in
these sacred books. Certainly not with the
history of individual people who have
helped to establish the great Latter-day
work, nor even of the most famous exigen-
cies and occurrences through which this
peculiar people have passed in days gone
by, nor of the countries from which they
have been gathered.
	We turn with great pride, some of us, to
the history of the Pilgrim fathers and their
wonderful achievements, and in many re-
spects the history of this people is a parallel;
yet because it is so familiar, in a sense, to
our children they do not estimate what has
been done at its full value, nor can they,
seemingly, appreciate the work, the service
of those who penetrated into these moun-
tain wilds and founded for the coming gen-
erations this great commonwealth.
	These are problems yet unsolved by them
that many seem to esteem of little conse-
quence, but it has taken strength of char-
acter and physical energy and endurance,
vigor of mind and intellect such as the ris-
ing generation know little about, to colon-
ize and make habitable the great American

[Column 3]
desert. It was not done with wealth, but
with the courage energy and hard work of
men and of women who knew no such word
as failure, and who, with mighty faith,
were determined to conquer the adverse
elements and overcome obstacles, to make
homes to dwell in, where they might live in
peace and worship God without fear or
molestation from their enemies.


