				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


[Column 1]
			SIMPLICITY.
		TO THE SAINTS IN ZION.
	We are said to be creatures of habit. We
certainly are so to a great extent. We are
all, more or less, stamped with the same
dye of education combined with the circum-
stances of early life, which constitute our
individual cast; by which we are fitted by
certain opinions and prejudices, and bound
to certain habits and customs, until we real-
ly become sterotyped in practice.
	When we enter the school of Jesus Christ
the sooner we can divest ourselves, or be-
come divested of traditional cast—the soon-
er we throw off the stereotyped edition of
ourselves, and like a plain proof-sheet, hold
ourselves subject to correction in all things,
and like little children be ever ready to re-
ceive and adopt whatever tends to improve-
ment, the greater will be our attainment to-
wards that point which the Savior enjoined
on His disciples, saying, “Be ye therefore
perfect, even as your Father in heaven is
perfect.” To this end we need to culti-
vate that truthful simplicity which like a
clear sunbeam affords an extension of vis-
ion far, far surpassing the utmost stretch of
all the telescopes of that ostentatious form-
ality, which clothes the affectation of great-
ness with which the world abounds; while
simplicity exhibits the burnished gem, with
all its native lustre and brilliancy un-
diminished, yet improved by the sculp-
lor’s art. This feature was beautifnlly il-
tustrated in the character of Jesus Christ
during his life upon the earth. His origi-
nal worth and self-possessed dignity re-
quired no artificial support. Sensible of His
own superiority and greatness, and for the
time being, satisfied to be what He was, He
spared Himself the trouble of endeavoring
to make everybody understand and ac-
knowledge it. The life of Joseph Smith,
also, was a striking illustration of the
beauty of simplicity, as all will testify who
had the honor of his personal acquaintance.
	But we are under no necessity of refer-
ring to those who once lived; we have
plenty of living examples, both of male and
female, and they are in our midst, for the
greatest and the best on earth are here, the
opinion of the world to the contrary not-
withstanding.  For instance, is there a
greater than Brigham Young? Is there
one on whom rests a broader fold of im-
perial dignity, as recognized by the upper
nobility? (By the way we do not consult
the opinion of the lower courts.) And is
there a more striking example of plainness
and simplicity? Does not this very sim-
plicity in him, beget love and admiration in
the hearts of this people?
	I always feel to shrink from the cold
formality—that heartless affectation of dig-
nity, where thought and feeling and every

[Column 2]
native charm, are hid beneath the cum-
brous appendages of the so called etiquette
of fashionable life. It seems too much like
penetrating beneath, or unwinding the
sixty-four thicknesses of envelop to find
the Egyptian mummy; and when you find
it, you only find a stiff, dried up, lifeless
substance, at which every feeling would re-
volt to recognize as the representative of
once breathing, noble humanity. True
dignity is self supported, and real greatness
is never straining for its own exhibition. It
certainly is desirable to be divested of that
kind of tall importance which requires con-
stant propping and splicing to sustain its
position. That is too expensive, it will not
pay its own passage. I think it must be
one of those things that “perish with the
using.”
	Ever delighted with the beauties of na-
ture, I like to see nature cultivated and im-
proved but not obliterated—however ele-
vated and refined, let nature be nature still
in every department, both in the produc-
tions of the earth and in the vast varieties
exhibited throughout animate and inani-
mate existence.
	I love simplicity. I like things to seem
what they are and be what they seem. I
love the artless exhibition of unaffected
childhood; and regard simplicity in a child,
not as a frightful exuberance—a something
peculiar to, and only to be tolerated in the
infantile season, which, like the transient
verdure of spring, must disappear before
the summer solstice and give place to more
substantial productions; but as an inherent
attribute of real goodness, that should be
tenderly cherished—a plant that should be
cultivated for all eternity, and constitute a
prominent characteristic in every season of
life. If we are pleased with its charms in
childhood, it calls forth our admiration when
delineated in manhood; for when does great-
ness appear so truly great as when clothed
with the mantle of simplicity?
	We happen to be situated at the farther-
est, lowest extremity of things, called degen-
racy; and with all the boasted light and
knowledge of the age, the human family is
blind and ignorant with regard to genuine
worth and true greatness. They call good
evil and evil good; and I would ask what
of all substances on earth is more subject
to idiotic metamorphosing and artificial
mummyfying, than that of the human kind?
We suffer our tongue to play the truant
with our thoughts—our bodies to be weak-
ened and disfigured by the arbitrary power
of degenerating, corrupt Babylonish fash-
ions—our health destroyed and our lives
shortened through a silly and guilty per-
version of dietic observances. The laws of
nature are set at defiance, while wisdom
and simplicity are laughed to scorn, and
common sense looked out of countenance.
We all have been and still are trammeled
with these mockeries of life. Yes, here in 
Zion we are affectionately hugging to our
bosom the prepossessions of Gentile tui-
tion, caressing the customs of the past,
which  have been instrumental in lessening
the tide of human life to its lowest ebb, and


[Column 1]
at the same time claiming, as we really are,
to be standing on the very threshhold of
the dispensation of the fulness of times and
actually living in the Era of the regenera-
tion.
	As members of the Church of Jesus Christ
we each have high responsibilities resting
upon us; and surely quite as much dili-
gence and faithfulness are requisite in Zion
as in Babylon—if we needed a large amount
of moral courage to stand forth amid the
scoffs and sympathies of the world, and of
our unbelieving kindred, to espouse the
Gospel of Christ; we certainly shall require
no less to fulfill all its requirements in the
midst of those who are called Saints for
remember “all are not Israel that are of
Israel.” In order to attain to a fulness of
promised blessings, we must be found faith-
ful, as well as to have been called and
chosen.
	In speaking of those of the middle age,
the Savior said, “All the blood that has
been shed from the time of righteous Abel,”
etc. “will I require at the hand of this gen-
eration.” Why? Simply because the re-
sponsibility of saving, or in other words, of
doing the work for all the dead, from the
days of Adam down to that time, rested up-
on those to whom the Gospel was pro-
claimed. If such were their responsibili-
ties, what must be ours, who are called to
lay the foundation of the new order of
things, after the pattern of heaven—to
sound the requiem of Gentile policies, with
all their incongruities and tendencies to
evil, and of every principle of disorganiza-
tion and degeneracy; to establish or at least
to assist in introducing such customs and
principles as shall place an eternal veto on
the downward course of human existence;
and cause the tides thereof, both physically
and mentally to flow upward, until man-
kind in their generations upon the earth,
become immortal.
	We do not yet see eye to eye in all things
—a difference in judgment with regard to
right and wrong in many instances, will
exist among those who embrace the truth
through the love of it, until our under-
standings, being stripped of the fripperies
of the past are equally enlightened by the
power of the wisdom of God. This calls
for long suffering and forbearance towards
each other. But do we not, too often, suffer
our judgments to be biased by reflections
from the opaque order of things with which
our feelings have been associated? We do
not like variations from the beaten track,
and sooner than pass the trying ordeal of
change ourselves—sooner than stem the
tide of fashionable folly—sooner than stoop
to conquer the degenerating power of cus-
tom, we tamely transmit to succeeding
generations the evils which we endure; and
leave for them to accomplish what we
should do ourselves.
	My dear sisters in Zion—to you I speak—
Shall it be thus? Let us all—let us as in-
dividuals realize that a portion of this great
responsibility, however small that portion
may be, is resting on us. Let us ever dare
to do right, and in doing right, not be afraid
or ashamed to do. What is true greatness ?
In human character, usefulness constitutes
greatness. I mean in Zion. In the estima-
tion of holy intelligences, the most useful
character or person is the greatest. The
Savior said, “He that is greatest among
you, let him be servant of all,” or in other
words he is servant of all. “The glory of
God is His works.” Usefulness is great-

[Column 2]
ness. The tallest dignity—the most perfect
and beautiful elegance, and the most lofty
sublimity are combined and associated with
the greatest simplicity.
	This is a day of restitution, and when
that heavenly simplicity which character-
zed the ancient worthies, those who asso-
ciated with angels and conversed with the
Most High, is restored, the Saints of the
last days will freely participate in the same
blessings.
	This is a laboring dispensation and we
are instrumental in benefiting others—in
transmitting to succeeding generations,
those principles and those practices which
tend to save and exalt; in the same propor-
tion shall we be crowned with glory and
exaltation in the courts of Eternity.
					E. R. SNOW.
	June 1, 1877.


