THE BABY.
	What a vast expanse of unfolded possi-
bilities is contained within that newly-
fledged atom of humanity, the baby! The
arrival of it is an event whose importance
is not one whit reduced because of its famil-
iarity; each and every occurrence possesses
a significance which neither frequency can
abate nor changing scenes obliterate. A
new being takes its place among those who
hold sway upon the earth, another star ap-
pears in the firmament of mortality, one
more creature comes within our sphere
without jostling any of the others, any
setting another aside or displacing the
smallest portion of our social system.
Sweetest of all animate existence, degraded
is the soul, debased the mind, or debauched
the habits of him who does not extend to
you a glad greeting and recognize that in
his better and truer self he has one more
subject claiming, and worthy to claim, his
respect, his confidence, his protection if
need be!
	We love the baby and at all times we bid
it a hearty welcome. With its hues of pink
and carnation and roses, its eyes bespeaking
the tenderness just brought from a shore
we cannot recall even in dreams, its voice


so plaintive as to defy rudeness, and its
whole presence so like the embodiment and
eternal fitness of things superanimate—the
angels themselves—how purifying is the
presence and how sacred the influence
which its presence implies!
	“Suffer little children to come unto me,
and forbid them not.”
							J. Q. C.


[Column 1]
	THE LEAVES ARE FALLING.
	The falling of the leaves has a tendency
to impress us with serious thoughts, to re-
mind us that all things decay, that life it-
self is full of changes and that we are our-
selves only hastening on to that season
when “we shall fade as the leaf;” but not-
withstanding all the significance of the
Autumn and the falling leaves, one who rev-
els in the beauties of nature must admire
and enjoy this glorious season, though the
woods do grow “brown and sere.”
	It is the sentiment the Autumn carries
with it, too, that speaks in language unmis-
takable to the susceptible soul of those
things that beautify as well as typify hu-
man life. Aside from animal life there is
nothing more human than the trees; they
speak in all languages, they sing, they
whisper, they dance and play, and flirt and
coquette, and array themselves gaily, gor-
geously at times as though conscious of
power, and when their leaves are falling
they moan as though in mortal agony; the
wind is the music to which they keep time,
discordant often, but could the wind play
as it does, could it make such music if there
were no trees, no leaves to flaunt and flirt
about? And even when they have fallen,
and lie like a heavy carpet upon the ground,
the savage wind routs them about again
hither and thither at will.
	The poet tells us that the falling of the
leaves brings regrets for the beauties and
joys that are past and passing away from
us. It is good to be reminded of the sweet-
ness we only half enjoyed, and if a tinge of
sadness mingles with it—the deeper it will
sink into our hearts and lives, and the more
telling will be the lesson it will teach. We
all need reminding of the “sunny hours”
that pass all too quickly, and if we had no
shadows, no contrast, but were always
basking in light and sunshine we should
not even know it was the perfection of
beauty; what would we know of daybreak
if there was no night? Would we rejoice as
we do in the roseate dawn of each glorious
morning if we had not felt the shadows and
the darkness? Certainly not; we can all
answer—and would we have the splendor
of the gorgeous sunsets, were it not that
day is departing and night coming on? And
if it were always summer, we should not
drink in as we do the resplendent glories of
the Autumn.
	The Autumnal tints of the foliage are
beyond the art of the painter: the hills are
literally crowned with the purple glory,
shaded with a mantle of beauty like Joseph’s
“coat of many colors.” We gaze and ad-
mire and look again in wonder and amaze-
ment, and we try to carry in our hearts and
interpret in our lives the language con-
veyed to our souls, by the beauties of the
hills, the fields, the trees, the woods, the
trailing vines—and we cannot grasp it
all, but little by little we are learning to in-
terpret in our weak way, the wondrous
things that pass human wisdom and under-
standing.
	Possibly there is no season of the year so

[Column 2]
rich in the lessons it teaches as the fall—the
death of the flowers, the falling of the
leaves, the mournful sighing of the wind,
all these are like sorrows, and warn us that
we too are frail and may soon be touched
by the frosts of time, and pass away, that
we too must finally die; and yet these things
teach us we shall live again, for every
flower and tree and bulb and vine contains
the germ of life within that shall spring
forth again in all its pristine beauty accord-
ing to its time and season. Really we
know so little and we pay little heed to
that which admonishes us of our weakness,
nor do we consider as we should wherein
lies our strength. There is no season of
the year, no day nor night, nor anything
that God has planned but contains lessons
of beauty of wisdom and of truth that
would make us nobler, better, more loving
and tender if we would study as we should
the application it bears to the human side
of our lives upon the earth. This is a
beautiful world, and filling our lives up
with beautiful deeds, and shedding around
us the fragrance of loving words and hap-
py smiles, will do much to beautify the
paths of others who have not had so much
of sweetness mingled in the cup of life
given them to drink. Speak of the beauti-
ful and true, keep these before you, make
these your guides and talisman and the
touch of enchantment will be yours to gild
the lives of your friends and associates.
