Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, October 1 and October 15, 1890 "For. THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" A REMEMBRANCE OF JOSEPH THE PROPHET: How little does the world know of the great Prophet who came among us and turned the "key in behalf of woman" nearly half a century ago. I am thankful that I had the privilege of being somewhat acquainted with that noble man, the Prophet Joseph, and hearing sublime truths from his lips, which at the time, probably, I did not so fully appreciate. I have lived to see many of his predictions fulfilled, and still greater events are at hand. The last time he left his home in Nauvoo he said: "I go as a lamb to the slaughter." I saw him pass with his brother Hyrum whom he could not persuade to leave him. They were on horseback and looked very solemn. Joseph knew he would never return alive. It was a terrible blow to the Saints; but they soon leamed to acknowledge the hand of the Lord and that their beloved leader still labors in a higher sphere for the good of Zion. TOE. A. "Forget not the lone one!'' thus thou hast written: Thinkest thou, dearest, we'll ever forget, The poor, weary heart which too early was smitten, Hath suffered and waited, and suffereth yet. Dark days have pass'd o'er thee, since last we met thee; But there's a day when we'll know no regret; Thinkest thou, dearest, we'll ever forget thee? No, gentle friend, we will never forget. —Lula IF YOU WANT TO BE LOVED: Don't find fault. Don't contradict people, even if you're sure you are right. Don't be inquisitive about the affairs of even your most intimate friends. Don't underrate anything because you don't possess it. Don't believe that everyone else in the world is happier than you. Don't conclude that you have never had any opportunities in life. Don't believe all the evil you hear. Don't repeat gossip, even if it does interest a crowd. Don't go untidy on the plea that everybody knows you. Don't be rude to your inferiors in social position. Don't over or - under dress. Don't express a positive opinion unless you perfectly understand what you are talking about. Don't try to be anything but a gentlewoman—and that means a woman who has consideration for the whole world, and whose life is governed by the Golden Rule.—Selected SALT LAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: Mts. E. S. Taylor said: "I hope we all have a testimony of the Gospel, and not let a spirit of indifference creep over us so that we will be asleep. We should be a peculiar people in faith, in healing the sick, in the blessings of the Gospel. Many are cultivating the knowledge of the Gospel, but many are getting careless, let us teach our children the faith that can heal our sick. We are living in perilous times and we are getting to love pleasure more than right, spending money in many ways that are not right, true pleasure is not enjoyed in such things, it is only by the presence of the spirit of God we enjoy true pleasure." Mrs. Ann Griffiths said: "I had the privilege of shaking hands with the Prophet in Nauvoo, and the precious feeling of friendship has never left my hand yet."—E. Howard, Sec. Page 672 Af TER thirty years tenancy in the Utah State Capitol building, the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers organization in July moved its headquarters to the Daughters 'of the Utah Pioneers Memorial Museum at 304 Lake City, thus fulfilling a long cherished dream. For fourteen years, under the presidency of Kate B. (Mrs. Austin) Carter, and with Cornelia S. (Mrs. Anthony C.) Lund as memorial chairman, contributions have poured in from Daughters in all parts of the world, and from many communities and special donors. It is fitting that the impressive historical relics be housed in this beautiful building at the head of Main Street, where tourists and descendants of pioneers may view and appreciate the relics. UTH CHAPMAN HARTKOPF, housewife, is doing an expert job as secretary-manager of the Eastern Idaho State Fair at Blackfoot. This position calls for physical stamina, sound judgment, diplomacy, and business ability, and is rarely undertaken by a woman. Fourteen counties participate, and the grounds cover thirty-six acres. The attendance last year exceeded 95,000. MARIA COOMBS TAYLOR of Parowan died May 4th, shortly after her 100th birthday. She was believed to be the fourth oldest Utahn. North Main Street, Salt —