But One Little Talent Janey Haefeli
If you have but one little talent And its light is dim and small, If you polish it and use it Where 'twill do a little good It will grow to be a great light As the Maker meant it should.
If you dig a hole and hide it, Guard its hiding place with care, From unuse it will grow tarnished, Its existence come to naught, Though it might have been a beacon, If it had not been forgot.
Is better than neglect. God never made a little star To shine brighter than the sun. Nor did he give the talents Just alike to every one.
Each talent should be useful. And each little light should shine. He doesn't set an infant To accomplish like a man.
He knew what each could do Before the world began.
One small talent, if it's valued,
Guide Lessons for October
LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in October)
MARRIAGE
Celestial marriage is the union for time and for all eternity of husband and wife. To be of such effect it must be solemnized by the President of the Church who alone holds the keys of the sealing power, or by some man duly authorized by the President of the Church. In ancient Hebrew days no doubt this was understood and practiced. Marriage is an ordinance which pertains to life on the earth; and yet when entered into under the celestial law the effects of this ordinance, like that of baptism, and the receiving of the Priesthood itself is continued on throughout the endless ages.
The world's definition of marriage is that marriage is a civil or a religious contract, or both, entered into between a man and a woman for the protection of the children and for the perpetuation of decent family life. If men were not bound by a stern contract before the law, many of them would fail in their duty to support the wife and children and would leave them at will. But all governments have laws which protect the wife and children, financially and morally. Marriage is and was instituted primarily for the purpose of perpetuating the race through the bearing and rearing of children. If there are no children the purpose of the union is but half fulfilled.
No other people on the earth, so far as is known, teaches the doctrine of marriage for time and eternity, and certainly none have the authority to seal for eternity, except the Latter-day Saints. Poets, and lovers have indulged in flights of fancy and poetry which carry a longing hope for a certain acquaintance in their spiritualized relation after death, but no Christian presumes to announce such a hope as his belief. The Buddhists who believe in re-incarnation, hold that a man and woman may be embodied again and again, and perhaps both at the same period of time; so that if they loved in a former incarnation they might again marry. This thought forms the motif of some wellknown modern novels. 5 All Christian sects interpret the saying of the Savior, "For 
 in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven," Matt. 22:30, to mean that no one can sustain the relationship of marriage on the other side, either physically or spiritually. They fail to read the next two verses: "But as touching the resurrection of the dead, have ye not read that which was spoken unto you by God, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living." This saying means that the ceremony and sealing power of mortal to mortal should be performed on earth where the earthly life has been experienced. That is one reason why we build temples and perform the marriage ceremonies for our living and for our dead in these sacred houses. Now let us see what our Christian friends think about marriage. The following definition of marriage is found in the Bible Dictionary, as issued by the American tract Society, and is, therefore, presumably accepted by all the Christian faiths: "Marriage is the union for life of one man and one woman to form one flesh, and is an ordinance of the Creator for the perpetuity and happiness of the human race, it was instituted in paradise." (See Genesis 1:27-28; 2:18-24.) There are two kinds of legal marriage ceremonies in modern civilized life, one is strictly civil, and the other is religious which, however, must also be accompanied, in this country, by a permit or license from civil authorities in order that there can be proper legal protection to women and children in case of dispute before the civil law between husband and wife, such as proceedings for a divorce. Only non-religious persons content themselves with a civil marriage before a magistrate, which marriage is nothing more nor less than an ordinary contract between two parties attested to in the presence of witnesses, and accepted and recorded by duly authorized agents of the government. It is binding before the civil law, as is any building permit or other civil contract. Do you know the nature of a civil contract? If not, learn something now about it; ask a lawyer to instruct you on this important point. No church, outside of our Church, except the Catholic church, makes of marriage a sacrament; none of them, not even the Catholic church itself, assumes any authority to make the contract binding only until death parts the two people. The Presbyterian says distinctly, "marriage is not a sacrament." (What the World Believes.) No church, except ours, performs the marriage ceremony for the dead. The oriental customs of marriage, especially among the