[Vol55 | March 1968 | Page 234 | Lesson | Homemaking Observing, Recognizing, And Reporting Illness | Alice Schmidt]
Seal ale Talk st Jieant HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 9—Observing, Recognizing, and Reporting Illness Alice Schmidt, Assistant Professor Brigham Young University, College of Nursing Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, June 1968 Southern Hemisphere: November 1968 OBJECTIVE: To learn to be alert for common symptoms of illness occurring in the home. INTRODUCTION When a woman marries and begins to rear a family, she assumes two roles, that of mother and also that of home nurse. The responsibility of keeping her eyes and ears open for early, telltale signs of illness fall to her, and rightly so, for she is the one who observes family members most closely—whether they are working, playing, or resting. Much of this observation is done without comment, since a mother can cause unnecessary apprehension on the part of her family if she seeks needlessly for symptoms of illness. SYMPTOMS OF ILLNESS a. Many diseases begin with upper respiratory symptoms, thus 234 the nose and throat are affected. It is a good practice for the home nurse to check the throat when no illness is present so that she will be aware of the normal state of the throat and tonsils. Ys To check the throat, have the family member tip his head back slightly and say "ah." By placing a spoon handle about two-thirds of the way back on the tongue and shining a flashlight into the mouth, the home nurse should be able to see to the back of the throat, checking for redness, swelling, spots, or patches. She should also note the condition of the tongue and any unusual odor of the breath. The symptoms presented by the nose are familiar ones: a watery or thick discharge or nasal stuffiness which impedes breathing. The latter is often a problem with infants because it interferes with their ability to suck. This should be discussed with the family doctor where it poses a problem. B. Occasionally, symptoms of illness are noted in the eyes. This would include: any unusual color of the white area of the eyes; any discharge, either watery or purulent; sensitivity to light or any other unusual condition. C. A mother notes, almost subconsciously, any changes in the skin of a small child as she bathes him. Such things as the color of the skin, dryness, a rash, or scattered pustules, sores, bruises, or reddened areas, all of these may be important symptoms in all age groups and must be evaluated and reported to the doctor as necessary. D. Digestive system complaints occur frequently in most families. Usually, the complaints are minor, but lack of appetite, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, or excessive thirst which occur over a _ period of time may indicate a need for professional help. Sometimes Lesson Department general conditions such as irritability, fatigue, unusual sleepiness, even forgetfulness which comes on suddenly, are clues which may be important in the diagnosis of disease. When a family member mentions pain, the home nurse needs to know the location, type (continuous, intermittent, stabbing, throbbing), severity and time of onset, before she reports to the doctor. SEVEN DANGER SIGNALS OF CANCER Due to the efforts of the American Cancer Society, people have become more aware of the seven danger signals of cancer. Because cancer is a menace which can be defeated if detected early, *each home nurse should familiarize herself with these seven signs: 1. Changes in a wart or mole; 2. A chronic cough or hoarseness; 3. A change in bowel habits; 4. A non-healing wound; 5. A lump appearing anywhere; 6. Unusual bleeding or discharge from any body orifice; 7. Indigestion or difficulty swallowing. These symptoms may indicate _ problems other than cancer, but they should be brought to the doctor's attention so that he can determine the cause and begin treatment. THE FACTOR OF AGE It is important, also, to remember that age may be a factor, since children often become ill very quickly, showing acute symptoms. Thus, a child may be playing happily one minute and be prostrate on the bed the next with a flushed face and high fever. On the other hand, illness in older people may develop very slowly, with symptoms which are 

235 March 1968

 much less marked. For this reason, the home nurse may need to check signs over a period of days, to note a change in the usual pattern of living. THE HOME NURSE When the home nurse suspects illness, she usually takes the temperature, pulse, and respiration of the patient before she calls the doctor. This does not mean that this should be done on all family members each day, but that a thermometer and a watch or clock with a second THE DOCTOR Each family when moving into a new community should become acquainted with the doctors and should select a family physician. Choosing a doctor in the midst of a medical emergency is a difficult task and one that can be avoided with wise planning. Nowadays, doctors make relatively few house calls as they often need equipment and diagnostic aids which are available only in their offices or at the hospital. As a result, the family is usually Daily Record Diet _—. Jit ee Medicine BM I Urine Remarks P Treatment 7 a. M. 98-70-20 Soft Diet Scanty Urine RX 2401 1 tab. Ate well 8 a. M. Rash on hand are valuable tools for the home nurse. When illness occurs in the home, a daily record helps the home nurse to keep an accurate account of all the information the doctor will need for diagnosing or treating illness. The record should contain: date, time, temperature, pulse, and respiration; diet eaten, medicines given; a record of urine and stools passed by the patient and any symptoms mentioned earlier in this lesson. 236 asked to bring the patient to one of these two places. Where the patient is an adult who is seriously ill, as with a heart attack or stroke, an ambulance is the fastest and easiest way of transportation if available. A child can usually be bundled up and carried to a waiting car. Each home nurse should have available the number of the ambulance service nearest her. She should also have the number of the doctor in case a sudden emergency arises. 6/27/67 ae Black Stool abdomen If the doctor is making a home visit, the home nurse should put the patient to bed, carry out any measures suggested by the doctor over the phone and give the patient rest and emotional support until the doctor arrives. Note; Additional information, suggestions, or helps may be available from health agencies, insurance companies, or government agencies. Discussion: It may be advisable to check with Relief Society members as to their ability to do temperature, pulse, and respiration. A review of this material can be obtained from the Red Cross Home Nursing Textbook or the Relief Society Magazine of August 1960. A model thermometer can be drawn on heavy cardboard with a black ribbon inserted through two slits as the mercury. PRAYER Christie Lund Coles Spare me from self-pity, Lord, Let my sympathy Be for those warped of mind, Those who cannot see The world of wonder and of truth, The mountains, rising tall; Aware of God's great goodness Around, about us all.

total blectric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective March 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-_.80 Zone5 _-_-_~- 1.20 Zone3 ____.-.95 Zone 6 -.- 1.40 Zone 4 ___- 1.05 Zone? _.. 1.60 Zone8__ ~~ --1985 po = PESERET. PREWS PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 DISCOUNT SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER 2 Ov, off on ALL LDS Church Books!!! Mailed FREE anywhere in the world KEY TO HAPPINESS Beatrice M. Sparks $3.16 (reg. $3.95) postpaid SO YOU WANT TO RAISE A BOY W. Cleon Skousen $3.96 (reg. $4.95) postpaid MARY FIELDING SMITH, DAUGHTER OF BRITAIN Don Corbett $3.60 (reg. $4.50) postpaid OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Volume 3 $2.36 SEND FOR YOUR FREE DISCOUNT LIST OK& § 6 Mail Order ""& 9 Bookstore ¢ wy PHOENIX, ARIZONA & 360 E. Palm Lane 254-9478 239 (reg. $2.95) postpaid (YD? \ Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or Birthday Congratulations column. The by anyone for inclusion in the married), age, month of birth, street address, least three months before the birthday. 102 Mrs. Eliza Jane Sparks Arcadia, California 97 Mrs. Mary Berg Beckstead Nibley, Utah Mrs. Claudia C. Thomson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ruth Elizabeth Maxwell Foote Safford, Arizona Mrs. Hattie Merrill Funk Payson, Utah 94 Mrs. Lena Bagwell Dotson Yucaipa, California Mrs. Rosa Cooper Wanslee Foote Safford, Arizona Mrs. Minnie Florence Martin Lutz Teton City, idaho Mrs. Caroline Ringle Steed Washington Terrace, Utah 93 Mrs. Fannie Carter Solana St. Augustine, Florida Mrs. Mary Budge Woolley Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Ella Senn Ball Santa Clara, California Mrs. Eliza Ottellia Huber Gibson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lina Bergner Lehmann Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lena Isabella Durham McGregor Salt Lake City, Utah ¢ older may be submi full name (maiden city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at 92 Mrs. Helen W. Anderson Tooele, Utah Mrs. Anna Eliza Abegglen Carlile Midway, Utah; Mrs. Lettie May Saunders Taylor Ferri Ogden, Utah Mrs. Nada Kay Mona, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Peucher Parker Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie S. Millward Grantsville, Utah 91. Mrs. Mary Etta Carrico Britton Memphis, Tennessee Mrs. Maud Bowman Kurtz West Haven, Connecticut Mrs. Louise Ernestine Lannier Paris, France Mrs. Aness Elizabeth Ford Latter Adelaide, South Australia Mrs. Susette Hafen Leavitt St. George, Utah Mrs. Edith Stoddard West Point, Utah 90 Mrs. Edith Roberts Bradfield Minersville, Utah Mrs. Alice Finlayson Hill Payson, Utah Mrs. Lettie Christensen Larsen Newton, Utah Mrs. Isabell Penfold Morgan Hagerman, Idaho Mrs. Henrietta Hill Van Wert Ten Sleep, Wyoming Mrs. Ella Irene Brim Cook Voyce Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Mary Ann Madsen Woodland George Ogden, Utah <é D) Witt ZL Ud. Y. Cog palulaltires Usetul and interesting hocks! 1. A SCRAPBOOK OF INSPIRATION by Paul and Karen Searle $3.95 Ever been stuck for material for a talk? Then you'll find this volume handy to have around. These fascinating and inspirational excerpts from outstanding religious and secular thinkers will stimulate and inform you. Makes excellent casual reading as well. 2.0F FOOD & THOUGHT by Florence B. Pinnock Regularly $4.50 — New Special Price $1.95 A tasty mixture of delightful recipes and sound advice that every mother will treasure. A wonderful book to give as a gift! Eo ga I Deseret Book 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALI SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD OGDEN 77780 MAIN ST ORANGE CALIFORNIA ~ _— SaaS So Oe a DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 2. OF FOOD.& THOUGHT ~ Total amount of purchase $0000.00... Cece ee.. This must include 3%% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange Enclosed check [] money order [] / or, please charge my established account [7] March 68 Please send me 1. A SCRAPBOOK OF INSPIRATION u Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah At last! A tax break for the selfemployed! A Beneficial Life Retirement Plan can qualify you for a tax deduction of up to 100% of your contributions. Under the terms of the new Keogh Bill, self-employed persons will be eligible to deduct contributions toward a qualified retirement plan. Beneficial Life has such a plan to suit your specific needs... Talk it over with your Beneficial agent. Take advantage of this important tax break for the self-employed — now! BENEFICIAL LIFE Srsurance ae Company Virgil H. Senith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah