TO A YOUNG MOTHER.

Life is young and love is tender,
	Passing joys are ever sweet;
Hearts that crave no worldly splendor
	Surely sweet content shall meet.

Those whose hearts are ever happy,
	Knowing not of life's deep care,
Know no name more deep than "fervent"
	For the earnest hour of prayer.

But in life there cometh sorrow,
	Cometh darkness and despair.
And the heart o'ercharged with burden,
	Often bows in "anguished prayer."

Life is young and love is tender,
	May its brightness ever shine,
May no sadness mar its splendor,
	May no anguished prayer be thine!
									M. J. T.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Young Ladies’ Co-operative Retrench-
ment Association of Bountiful, Davis Co.,
was organized October 27th, 1870.
	Mrs. Susan Grant, President,
	''	Nancy Willey, Vice-President.
	''    	Mary A. Call, Counselor
	Miss Lucy Fackrell, Counselor
	Mrs. Jane Holt, Counselor
	“      Eliza Dalrymple, Counselor
	“      Regena Stoker, Counselor
	“      Jane A. Hales, Secretary.
	In attempting to speak in behalf of our
Young Ladies’ Society, I will try to por-
tray the feelings of all. We have been
rather dilatory in sending in a report of our
Society, but think it better late than never.
	I presume many do not understand the
good, to be derived from meeting together,
and exchanging ideas with each other.
Many of our young ladies look lightly upon
this matter, and say, "I am too young; it
belongs to those who are more experienced.
I cannot speak in public." But how is ex-
perience to be gained except by trying? It
is the duty of young ladies to attend Relief
and Retrenchment Meetings, to speak and
encourage each other. In the future we
wish to become great and noble—not to gain
worldly applause, the aim is to spread sun-
shine and not shade, to help those who
stand in need, thus securing happiness to
ourselves while making others happy; we
have been instructed not to follow the vain
fashions of Babylon, but make our own
fashions. It is according to our professions
to appear in plain and comely attire, the
workmanship of our own hands, to strive to
be women of honor, full of integrity, make
choice of the words we utter, and the man-
ners we adopt; these are duties we owe,
not to ourselves only, but to those around
us. Modesty and virtue are the richest or-
naments that adorn a women. Our duty to
our parents should not be forgotton. The
gentlest, kindest care we can bestow upon
them is not too much, or more than they
deserve. There is a glorious future await-
ing the faithful; let us be up and doing,
trying to perform every duty that is requir-
ed at our hands.
		MARY E. WOOLSTENHULME.
			         Assistant Secretary.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation, convened in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Apr. 3rd, 1875.
	That the meeting was one of particular
interest was manifested by the large attend-
ance and strict adherence to the subject now
being agitated, namely, HOME INDUS-
TRIES.
	After the usual ceremonies, and the read-
[Column 1]
ing of minutes by the young secretaries
from the different wards, spirited remarks
were made, appropriate to the occasion by
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, and Counsel-
ors, Mrs. Z. D. Young, Mrs. Phebe Wood-
ruff, Mrs. B. Smith; and also by Mrs. E. S.
Barney, relative to the straw work, silk
manufacture, the making of trimmings,
laces, flowers etc; duties devolving upon the
different Societies in accordance with the
counsel which has been given by Prest.
Young. Br. Jones who has been employed
by the sisters to prepare the mulberry cut-
tings, made suitable suggestions relating to
the cultivation of the mulberry-tree, its
adaptation to soil and its rapid growth. He
expressed his satisfaction with the course
the sisters were pursuing and wished them
ultimate success.


[Column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
HOW TO BECOME MOST USEFUL
