ADVICE BY FLORENCE NIGHTIN-
			GALE.

	The following extracts from a letter written
by this esteemed lady to a correspondent,
will be read with interest:
	"I could not do what you asked me to do
in your kind letter of July 12th—viz., give
you information about my own life; al-
though, if I could, it would be to show how
a woman of very ordinary ability has been
led, by strange and unaccustomed paths,
to do God's service. I have worked hard,
very hard, that is all; though being natur-
ally a very shy person, most of my life has
been very distasteful to me. I have no pe-
culiar gifts, and I can honestly assure any
young lady, if she will but try to walk, she
will soon be able to run the "appointed
course." But then she must first learn to
walk, and so, when she runs, she must
run with patience. (Most people do not
even try to walk.) But I would also say to
the young ladies who are called to any pecu-
liar vocation, qualify yourselves for it as a
man does for his work. Do not think you
can undertake it otherwise. No one should
attempt to teach the Greek language until
he is master of the language; and this he
can become only by hard study; and if you
are called to man's work, do not exact a
woman’s privileges—the privileges of inac-
curacy, of weakness, ye muddle-heads.
Submit yourselves to the rules of business,
as men do, by which alone you can make
business succeed. 
	It has happened to me more than once to
be told by women, "Yes, but you had per-
sonal freedom." Nothing can well be fur-
ther from the truth.  I question whether
God has ever brought any one through more
difficulties and contradictions that I have
had. But to women I would say, look upon
your work, whether it be an accustomed
or an unaccustomed work, as upon a trust
confided to you. This will keep you alike
from discouragement and presumption; from
idleness and from overtaxing yourself. I
have been nine years confined, a prisoner,
to my room from illness, and overwhelmed
with business. This must be my excuse
for not having answered your questions be-
fore. Nothing, with the approval of my
own judgment, has been made public before,
or I would send it.  I have a strong objec-
tion to sending my own likeness, for the
same reason. Some of the most valuable
works the world has ever seen, we know not
who is the author of.  I do not urge this ex-
ample upon others; but it is a deep-seated
religious scruple in myself.  I do not wish
my name to remain, nor my likeness.  If I
could really give the lessons of my life to
my countrywomen, the lessons of my mis-
takes as well as of the rest, I would; but for
this there is no time. I would only say
work—work in silence at first—in silence for
years—it will not be time wasted. Perhaps
in all your life it will be the time you will
afterwards find to have been best spent."


LESS than one hundred years ago, when
Dr. Franklin was Postmaster General, the
whole number of post offices in the United
States was 75; the length of post roads 1875
miles; the revenue $37,935; and the ex-
penditures $32,140. Now the whole number
of offices is 33,224; the length of post-roads
255,210 miles; the revenue $22,996,741,57,
and the expenditures $29,084,845,67.


