ASSOCIATION OF THE FIRST WARD S. L. CITY.

	Faith is the first principle in the religion
of Jesus Christ. Therefore without faith it
is impossible to find God or to please Him.
It is the moving cause of all our actions, and
by diligently seeking after God, we exer-
cise faith or belief in reward for all the good
we do, and that if we do no good we merit
no reward.
	The faith that we enjoy is the same as
that enjoyed by the former day Saints; thus,
we understand our duties towards God and
each other the same as the ancient Saints
did.
	When true faith is planted in good soil, it
grows and gathers strength; and this living,
growing faith is that which begets know-
ledge, wisdom, power and wealth. Because
of our faith, we search for those things we
wish to possess, and our pursuit will be, as
Christ said, according to our faith. Faith
in God and in His gospel is that which
prompts men and women to endure trials;
through this men leave their homes, wives
and children, and travel in foreign lands
and upon the islands of the sea. Not that
they expect to receive money for their la-
bors, but the faith they have in God, and the
desires they have of doing good for His
kingdom, in which they have hopes of re-
ceiving a glorious inheritance.
	Joseph Smith, the Prophet of God, by
faith endured many hardships and finally
suffered martyrdom, for the faith he had in
the goodness and power of God to restore all
things to those who serve him. By faith
thousands of Latter-day Saints have been
gathered from different parts of the earth,
leaving all that was dear to them, save their
hope in Christ, and crossing the mighty
ocean in search of a country they had never
seen nor known anything about. By faith
they travel and by faith they obtain many
promises, which, through their steadfast-
ness to the faith, will all be fulfilled.
	Jesus said, "The just shall live by faith."
by our faith we progress from the first prin-
ciples of the Gospel to the greater; by it
the sick are healed, the blind see, the deaf
hear, the lame walk. Without this kind of
faith no one can find out the true God or
the true way to salvation. Yet with it, we
suffer all things cheerfully with the hope of
receiving a just reward in the future.
