A VIEW OF POLYGAMY.

	I do not blame women in the common
course of life for looking upon polygamy, as
it is practiced among the Mormons, with
horror; or for considering it an abomina-
tion. It seemed little less to me once, al-
though I was born of Latter-day Saint par-
entage, and reared in these valleys of the
mountains. At an early age I began read-
ing the works of the church. I thought I
read understandingly, and that I found
things in the Book of Mormon which did
not corroborate the teachings and practices
of the Latter-day Saints. Still it was not
this alone, or principally that made me look
upon polygamy as a very objectionable fea-
ture in our religion. But a few years ago,
our fathers and mothers, and elder brothers
and sisters did not know as much as they
have since learned about living in plurality.


And some of them used sometimes to ap-
pear fretted and miserable over trifling
things, which I, in my ignornce, attributed
to their being in polygamy; just as many
others have done. But for all this, I never,
for one moment in my life, felt to doubt the
truth of Joseph Smith’s being a chosen pro-
phet of the living God. And by and by I
began to realize the great inconsistency of
believing and advocating every portion of
the gospel except one principle, and leaving
that for others to speak and act upon. So I
asked the Lord to make me understand why
polygamy was necessary among His people.
And, true to His promise, “Ask and ye shall
receive,” my eyes were opened and my un-
derstanding quickened, so that I see for my-
self, that no principle pertaining to the gos-
pel was ever of greater importance to the
Saints, than is that of plural marriage in
this dispensation. It seems to me, almost
the greatest item in the plan of salvation at
the present day, for without it, I can see no
possible chance for the redemption of the
world from its sunken and darkened state.
	When the women of the world, those
who wish to be pure and to do good,
come to understand the principle, it will
no longer seem to them a degrading and
loathsome thing, but the exact opposite;
and they will not only be willing but
eager to embrace it. Of this I am sure;
and may the Lord hasten the time, and His
name be glorified.
