HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Poor diet and consumption.—A Mass-
achusetts physician says that poor diet tends
to produce consumption.  And that those
who live on “slops” are the most likely to
suffer from it. Wholesome food and pure
air are the remedies for it.
	A SUBSTITUTE FOR TEA.—The best sub-
stitue for tea, the “Herald of Health” says,
is nourishing food and rest when exhausted.
A bowl of rich oatmeal gruel, made with
milk, will serve a better purpose than tea.
Even a bowl of beef tea with bread may at
times be substituted if preferred. Let them
be taken at regular meal times, and then af-
ter eating rest for half an hour, thus giving
the stomach a chance to use the forces of
the system of digestion. Few know the
value of a half hour’s restafter eating. Many
dyspeptics would find it almost a cure for
their troubles.
	APPLES AS FOOD.—An eminent French
physician thinks that the dyspepsia and bil-
ious affections in Paris, have been greatly
decreased by the abundant use of apples as
food. He maintains that this fruit is an ad-
mirable prophylactic and tonic, as well as a
very nourishing and easily digested arti-
cle of food. The “Herald of Health” says
that “the best time to eat apples is soon af-
ter breakfast, so that they may form a part
of the morning meal. They are an almost
sure cure for constipation and liver com-
plaint.”
	THE SEWING MACHINE.—We see articles


occasionally on the hygiene of the sewing
machine. Those who are interested in the
study of health, and have made female dis-
eases a speciality give it as their opinion
that the moderate use of the muscles of the
lower limbs is beneficial in this, as in every
other form of labor, that use strengthens the
organs, and that while the use of half the
body is not so conducive to health as if the
whole frame were exercised, it is certainly
better than no exercise at all, as is also the
case in sewing by hands.  The result of a
series of observations made by eminent
physicians in France and England, has been
in favor of this artificial motive power.
Other European and also American authori-
ties confirm these opinions, especially the
Massachusetts State Board of Health.


[Column 1]
