INTERESTING PARAGRAPHS. 

	WIVES.—Women should know that no
beauty has any lasting charm but the inward
one of the mind, and that a gracefulness in
their manner is more engaging than that of
their person; that modesty and meekness
are the true and lasting ornaments; for she
who has these is qualified, as she ought to
be, for the management of a family, for the
education of children, for the affection of
her husband, and submitting to a prudent
way of living.  These only are charms that
render wives amiable, and give them the
best  title to our respect.
	A “Hoosier” reporter says: “If he speaks
of things as they are people get angry. If
he glosses over or smooths down the rough
points, he is bribed.  If he calls things by
their right names, he is unfit for the posi-
tion of a reporter.  If he doesn't furnish
his readers with jokes, he is a mullet.  If
he does he is a rattlehead, lacking stability.
If he condemns the wrong, he is a good fel-
low, but lacks discretion.  If he lets wrongs
and injuries go unmentioned, he is a coward.
If he exposes a public man, he does it to
gratify spite—is the tool of a clique, or be-
longs to the "outs."  If he indulges in per-
sonalities, he is a blackguard If he does
riot his paper is dull and insipid."
	ARAB INGENUITY.—A gentleman who
rode his own mare in the course of an east-
ern tour, asked his Arab attendant if he
was quite sure she always got her allowance.
"Oh, yes," he replied; "my countrymen of-
ten steal from one another, and rob their
friends’ horses, but I can always find out if
your mare has been cheated;” “How?’ “I
always put some pebbles in with the barley
—seven or eight—and count exactly how
many I put in. The mare never eats the
pebbles, with it.  If I find the pebbles short
in the morning, I have hard words, and
they cannot tell how I know, so they give
up cheating her."
	AN INTELTIGENT EQUINE.—After the
death of Crawton, the milkman who was
frozen to death on Woodward avenue early
Sunday morning, his brother determined to
carry on the business, but at the outset was
met by a discouraging obstacle in the fact


that he had no list of his brother's custom-
ers.  Suddenly a happy thought occurred to
him. He got into the wagon, with his cans
and tickets, on Monday morning, and giving
free rein to the little black pony formerly
driven by his brother, was gratified to find
that the intelligent animal made the long
circuit without hesitation, and stopped at
every house where his master had been in
the habit of supplying milk.—Detroit Post.
	A NEW Orleans paper tells of a printer
who, when his fellow workmen went out to
drink beer during the working hours, put
in the bank the exact amount which he
would have spent if he had gone out to
drink. He thus kept his resolution for five
years. He then examined his bank account
and found that he had on deposit $521.86.
In the five years he had not lost a day from
ill health.  Three out of five of his fellow
workmen had in the meantime, become
drunkards, were worthless and were dis-
charged.  The water drinker then bought
out the printing-office, went on enlarging
the business, and in twenty years from the
time he began to put by his money, he was
worth $100,000.
	LOVE OF CHILDREN—If I were to choose
among all gifts and qualities, that which on
the whole, makes life pleasantest, I should
select the love of children. No circum-
stance can render this world wholly a soli-
tude to one who has this possession. 'If I
value myself in anything,' said the lonely
Hawthorne, 'it is on having a smile that
children love.' They are such prompt little
beings, too; they require so little prelude.
Hearts are won in two minutes at that frank
period, and so long as you are true to them,
they will be true to you. They have a
hearty appetite for gifts, no doubt, but it is
not for these that they love the giver. Take
the wealth of the world and lavish it with
counterfeited affection; I will win all chil-
dren's hearts away from you by empty-
handed love.  In visiting a house where
there are children, I do not like to take
them presents; it is better to forego the
pleasure of the giving than to divide the
welcome between yourself and the gift.
Let that follow after you are gone.—T. W.
Higginson.
	THE THIEF'S VICTORY.—A good many
years ago one of the most notorious thieves
in the United States had a confidential con-
versation with a gentleman who is now one
of our most efficient detectives, and express-
ed a desire to reform.  "Why do you wish
to live so much on the square?" said the
gentleman. "Because," replied the thief,
"I have a wife and children to whom I am
very much attached; they have no idea of
the mode in which I am making my living;
the children are growing up, and are begin-
ning to wonder why I leave home so often,
and what I do; and if ever I am to reform
now is the time." The gentleman warmly
approved the idea, and to further it, loaned
the man several hundred dollars with which
to begin an honest business.  The reformed
man at once broke off all his associations,
lived perfectly honest, would have no dis-
honest person call on him, devoted himself
for years closely to business, raised his fam-
ily respectably, did a great many acts of
unostentatious charity, and died not long
since esteemed by all who knew him. His
children are doing well and are highly re-
spectable.  The money advanced was long
since repaid.


