THE BLACK SHEEP.

	The above term, as often applied to one of a
human fold, is a very significant, and to us, a
very painful one. It implies too forcibly
the rigid fact, that one born an "unfortunate,"
is doomed to bear ridicule and censure, rather
than to receive pity and charitable words and
acts—not so much from strangers as from broth-
ers and sisters, and even from the parents them-
selves whose folly or weakness has, in some
way, been the cause of the deficiency. It is al-
so a fact to be regretted, that these human
black sheep are, in so many instances, like sen-
sitive plants in their natures, making their fate
a still more pitable one.
	If parents could only understand that the en-
tire fault of such peculiar dispositions, such de-
formed minds being brought into existence, is
always, or nearly so, their own, certainly the
number born of unhappy beings would be less,
and the world less full of sorrow. If mothers
could be brought to realize, how much they
have to do  with the forming of the characters
of men ond women, ere they are given exist-
ence in the outer world, surely no pains taking
would be to great for them, in the matter of
producing good and noble, rather than inferior
offspring
		"Nature inviolate holds certain laws,
		There's no effect produced without a cause,"
	A woman cannot allow herself to be reckless,
disagreeable or in any particular that which
she ought not to be, and bring forth a sweet-
souled, lovely and in all respects perfect off-
spring. There may be nothing wanting of
beauty and comeliness in form and feature.
But desirable as ought which pleases the eye
may be, how much better to place upon the


earth a deformed body, or a visage severely
plain, containing a superior heart and brain, a
mind of great worth, than to burden it with a
deceptive charm, or a hateful, disconsolate be-
ing who can bring no sunshine for self or for
others.
	The common charge placed upon woman—
that she is alone to blame for all the evils that
are born with men—is, however an unjust one.
The great work of forming minds, is mainly
hers. But if man would stop to reflect upon
the subject, and be made aware of the import-
ance of his position and the course he takes in
relation to the peopling of the world, he would,
in many instances, be a better husband and act
a more generous and manly part than he does.
	A woman may be surrounded with all the
comforts of life, and yet be kept in a state of
miserable apprehensions, from which she
has not power to rise, by the indiscreet pro-
ceedings of an unwise man. If, by uncon-
trolable circumstances, her lot must be a hard
one, it may be rendered much more tolerable
by the care and sympathy and tender solicitude
of a kind and agreeable husband.
	When parents learn wisdom and practise it,
there will be no black sheep among their flocks.
There will be only loving and lovable beings
begotten and born, and the human household
will contain only happy and delightful circles
of precious, darling lambs.


