			HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Flavor for Frosting.—In frosting for cakes or
puddings a little lemon juice, tartaric acid or cream
of tartar is a very pleasant addition to the taste,
besides making the frosting much lighter.
	To Preserve cut Flowers.—Fill a saucer with fine
sand, piling it up in the center somewhat, in the
form of a mound.  Moisten the sand and arrange
your flowers in it, and they will keep fresh several 
days.
	Coldslaw.—Yelks of two eggs; a tablespoonful
of cream; a small teaspoonful of mustard; a little
salt; two tablespoonfuls of vinegar.  If cream is
not used, put in a small lump of butter rubbed in a
little flour.  Cut the cabbage very fine; heat the
mixture and pour it on hot.
	Cleaning Oil Painting.—Remove the picture
from the frame, keep a coarse towel over it several
days, until it has drawn all the filthiness from the
picture—pass some linseed oil, which has been a
long time seasoning, over it in the sunlight and the
picture will be purified and as lively as new.
	Venison Steaks.—Cut them from the neck, sea-
son them with pepper and salt.  When the grid-
iron has been well heated over a bed of bright coals,
grease the bars, and lay the steaks upon it. Broil
them well, turning them once, and taking care to
save as much of the gravy as possible. Serve
them up with some currant jelly laid on each steak.
	Cornmeal Pudding.—Two pints meal, one pint
grated bread, one of molasses, one of brown sugar,
one of sour milk, two tablespoonfuls butter, a half
teaspoonful of ginger and two  cinnamon, three
eggs, half a teaspoonful soda; slice soft, juicy ap-
ples, and add one teacupful, if liked; bake half an
hour.  Sauce—cream and sugar.
	Housework Hints.—If stove polish is mixed
with very strong soapsuds, the lustre appears im-
mediately, and the dust of the polish does not fly
around as it usually does.  Dry paint is removed
by dipping a swab with a handle in a strong solu-
tion of oxalic acid.  It softens at once. Water
lime applied with a dry, soft cloth, will give glass
a nice, clear east.
	To cook fruits just right requires care and skill;
apple sauce is a very simple preparation, but, like
almost everything else, must be attended to in
every detail if we would have a nice wholesome
dish.  It depends entirely on the kind or quality of
the apple whether it should be cooked a short or a
long time; fine grained apples generally make the
best sauce or pies.  Never sweeten stewed fruits
until they are quite soft and pulpy, and then cook
but a few minutes afterward.
	Fricassee of Fowls Brown.—Broil as for pot-
pie, then fry slowly in butter until browned;
toast bread and lay it on the platter under the
chicken. Pour a little of the broth in the spider
with the browned butter, thicken with flour, season
to suit, and pour it over the chicken; or if you
want it very nice, add the butter for the gravy to

[Column 2]
the butter in which the chicken was browned;
dredge with flour, add salt and pepper, brown well,
and lastly add the chicken broth.
	A Good Cake when Eggs are Scarce.—One pint
of cream, one pint of sugar, yolks of three eggs,
soda, if cream is sour, and soda and cream of tar-
tar if cream is sweet; flavor to taste; flour enough
to form a moderately stiff batter; bake in a loaf if
you want a plain cake, or in layers if you want a
jelly cake or cocoanut cake; make stiffer and put in
two cups of fresh, best currants, and you have a 
nice, plain fruit cake.  This cake receipt should be
named 'hard times cake,' as it is valuable to a per-
son whose supply of butter, sugar and eggs is limi-
ted.
	Novel Way of Making Jelly Cake.—Take the
whites of six eggs, one cup white sugar, same of
flour, tablespoonful butter, two tablespoonfuls
sweet milk, two teaspoons cream tartar, and one of
soda.  Bake in a large oblong dripping pan, so the
cake will be very thin.  Meanwhile stir another
batch, making just the same, with the exception of
using the yelks instead of the whites; when both
are done, spread while warm, between with jelly or
preserve juice of any kind, put together; bring the
largest side of the cake toward you, and roll imme-
diately; or cut in four or eight parts, put together
alternately, putting jelly between each layer, and
frost lightly over the top.


