		WOMAN'S AID SOLICITED.	

	"Custom's the world's great idol we adore,
	And knowing this we seek to know no more."
	The financial troubles of the nation are be-
coming so complicated and embarrassing, that
an appeal is being made to the women of the
country, to aid in stemming the flood of in-
debtedness, and lend a helping hand in rescu-
ing and retrieving its falling fortunes; simply
by purchasing home productions, goods with-
out a foreign mark. It has indeed become a
“mania" in aristocratic circles, to wear for-
eign goods; polite society in its progressive ad-
vancement repudiates whatever is cheap, easy
of access, or inclined to simplicity.
	To be salable, it has become so essential that
the finer qualities of goods should have a for-
eign mark, that in many instances home pro-
ductions are sold under the head of "IMPORT-
ED" a word which possesses a mysterious fas-
cination, and a magic charm with these votar-
ies of fashion, these favorites of the "sterner
sex."
	And for what purpose are they thus arrayed,
and who are their admirers, who follow in
their wake, in the halls and realms of fashion?
Who worship at their shrine, who lauds their
beauty and magnificence their incomparable
charms, their manners "A la Parisienne?"
	Is it not the very men, who are now asking
them to retrench—is it not for them they have
adorned themselves, that they might win their
admiration? At least, that is about the only
consideration or recompense vouchsafed; as for
love, or sentiment, men of business, have no
time to indulge in anything so trivial.
	When men will pay court to ladies in simple
toiletts without ornaments, and accord to them
the same distinguished courtesies which char-
acterize their attentions to those who are elab-
orately and daintily "gotten up," then women
will believe they mean what they say, and
practice what they preach.
	Millions of dollars are sent abroad annually
for these costly fabrics, for which GOLD must be
paid; and while this incessent drain continues,
panics will be inevitable, and eventually, unless


some permanent stoppage is effected, a tre-
mendious and overwhelming crash.  It is said
by those who are raising their voices in this
matter, that it is the women who demand and
use these superfluities, and it is for them to act
against the "tyranny of mode." But are wo-
men more culpable in this respect than men?
In short is it not the same frivolous, shrinking
behind woman's skirts to screen themselves
which has been inherited in them from the
days of father Adam?  How much money is
expended yearly for liquors of all kinds with
foreign brands, cigars, perfumaries etc? to say
nothing of the French kids, jewelry, and
watches of foreign manufacture.  Think you the
ladies wardrobes will out-balance in cost the
sum-total of your own individual expenditures?
Yet you call upon women to make an effort to
stay this formidable current meantime your
own demerits are unmentioned—is this fair?
	It will not require any particular sacrifice,
there will be no need of leagues or clubs or any
such useless palaver, say they, only a "practical
movement." Oh no! certainly not, nothing of
this sort ever does.  Gentlemen you are labor-
ing under a serious mistake. Women know
full well that when they attempt to step out of
the groove designated by the reigning monarch
"A la mode," they become a mark of criticism;
and though their motives are as pure as those
of angels, they will not escape the cutting, bit-
sarcasms of those who cannot understand or
appreciate any superior strength of mind or
elevation of character.
	Consistency is a rare jewel, and while men
call upon women to help in extricating them
from difficulties, meantime ridicule and sneer
at their untiring efforts to lead out practically
in any laudable and praise-worthy undertak-
ing, which will effectually aid in a general re-
form, and give women a more thorough under-
standing of financial matters, they must ex-
pect to be outwitted.
	When they can believe, that women are en-
titled to equal rights and privileges, in all mat-
ters which pertain to their mutual interests,
and will encourage them in their true position
acknowledging there are zealous workers in
the field, aiming not so much for "the ballot,
the bench, and th pulpit," as for a keen appre-
ciation of their powers.  Then there will follow
a decisive revolution which will give the
world a better standard from which to judge 
woman.
	S. L. City, Apr. 13, 1874.		B. B.


