			IN LIFE.

	How very many different ways there are
of being useful, but to become most so, I
can scarcely determine.
	There is a great diversity of opinions up-
on this subject; many very talented persons,
who possess superior intelligence and in-
tellect, devote themselves, almost unreserv-
edly, to the pursuit of science—perhaps
some particular branch; and then, most gen-
erally, give the world the benefit of their
investigations; perhaps it has been a life-
work, then the whole world is the gainer,
consequently we may say, such have really,
led lives of true usefulness.
	There is another class who aim to be great
statesmen and politicians, and exert all the
energies they possess to obtain a comple and
thorough knowledge of how best to govern
and control the affairs of state. This class,
class if they really desire the interests of
the people and seek to make the condition of
their fellowmen better, must assuredly rank
among the useful of mankind.
	Then again there is the philanthropist,
who, perhaps, denies himself that which
would be pleasant and agreeable to him, that
he may materially benefit others. He tries
by every means in his power to improve the
social condition of his fellowmen, and to
elevate them in the scale of being.  He
seeks, to raise up tnose who are bowed down
—to alleviate the suffering—to ameliorate
the condition of the captive, and, in short
we must acknowledge that his life, is to all
within his reach, useful and beneficial. 
	Others, again, live only to be useful in
the service of the Lord; caring little for the.
usages of society, they seek, not the praise
of the world, or the perishable thing which
pertain thereto; but labor to save the souls
of the children of men; to teach the princi-
ples of salvation, according to their peculiar
ideas, or religious beliefs; they too may be
accounted useful.
	There is still another class of useful men
and women, I will mention, who exercise
their brains, to invent all the several bran-
ches of mechanism; some one thing and
some another; these inventors, if success-
ful, are not only benefactors to the age in
which they live, but, in many instances, to
succeeding generations, and their names are
held in honorable remembrance; but to
mention each and every class separately,
would occupy too much time. There is an
endless variety of ways in which to be use-
ful both to ourselves and others, but, which
is the best or most successful way for each,
depends more or less on surrounding cir-
cumstances. And yet we may all arrive at
some general conclusions.

[Column 2]
	But perhaps you will say, I have more
particularly alluded to men. That is true;
men seem to take precedence in all these
things, and yet there have been women who
have filled prominent positions, with as
much dignity and credit to themselves, as
men. Women have ruled over nations,
been honored in their stations, and have
conferred as great benefits upon their sub-
jects, and given quite as much satisfaction,
(and in some instances more) as men; and
women have made themselves of great use
to the world, or the age in which they lived;
but I will try to come down to the subject
as relates to myself. I have spent consid-
erable time, and I hope some of it profita-
bly in preparing to make myself useful to
others; but, as yet, I do not seem to have
accomplished much, comparatively, still I
have not been indolent, my time has been
almost entirely occupied, and I reflect a good
deal, how to make the best use of it possi-
ble. 
	There are a multitude of little trifles per,
formed every day, that seem nothing, and
yet each of these is of use—their worth
should be estimated by their numbers not
by their magnitude. 
	I cannot satisfy myself on this subject,
but will sum up my ideas thus; the one who
helps most to do good to others, lives most
truly, a life of usefulness.			M.


For the EXPONENT.
