WHAT ARE WE LIVING FOR?

	My dear Sisters. Daughters in Zion.
	I feel as though I could no longer hold my
peace, my heart is so full when I think of
all that lies before us to be done.  How
broad the field is in which we have volun-
teered to labor! And what great necessity
there is for our being firmly united in the
work which we have espoused.
	I would that I might do more than I have
power to accomplish, to assist in the great
practical work of the redemption of Zion
and the salvation of the human family.
And were my strength but equal to my
zeal, I feel that I might aid in "turning
some stones," in "binding some cords," in
"weaving some threads" for the good of the
common cause. As it is, I have no inten-
tion of remaining idle.  I can still knit and
darn stockings, braid straw, feed chickens,
make and mend common clothing and many
other such things which are of considerable
consequence in every-day life. But what-
ever I do, I want it to be done in the spirit
of meekness, with an eye single to the glo-
ry of God our Father, whose continued
mercies to me are "beyond the power of
tongue to tell." I want to bear my testi-
mony to you my sisters, that it is worth all
to live for the Celestial Kingdom of God and
to do the work which He assigns to us, no
matter what it may be. If he wants us to
raise silk and cotton and wool, and make
our own clothing, all right; let us do so
cheerfully and with thankful hearts.  If He
tells us by the mouth of His Prophet, that
it is best for us to produce and prepare our
food of every kind, let us do that also, and
feel blest in giving our children good, whole-
some sustenance that we know contains no
poisons or hurtful substance. Let us work
for the good of the world, for the building
up of the kingdom of  righteousness. For
all other efforts will surely come to nought.
Let us be wise and know for ourselves what
we are living for.  Let us live as saints
should live, in purity and humility; all for
the kingdom, not each for self alone. And
by and by, when the Temple is prepared,
and the city is ready, our dear Father and
Lord will come and visit us, and we shall
all know Him and be owned and accepted
of Him. Don't you think we will all feel
better then, to appear in garments of the


finest texture and the purest quality in all
respects, that have been made within the
borders of Zion, than we should, to be com-
pelled to confess that strangers were the
manufacturers, and that we had been pur-
chasing of "out-siders?" I think we should.
I'll tell you what, my friends, I am more
than ninety years old, but I hope to see the
time ere I "have shuffled off mortality,"
that I shall have a beautiful home-made
silk dress to wear at one of my birthday-
parties; and I invite you all to come to it.
	My heart is full of blessings for you all,
and may God bless you forever.
