			DIVERSIONS.

	POSSIBLY you never heard of a Mr. Ris-
tori, but he lives and moves and has his
being as much as she does.
	THE hardest thing to hold in this world is
an unruly tongue. It beats a hot smooth-
ing-iron and a kicking horse considerably.
	A CERTAIN editor is so prejudiced that
when he writes about the difficulty in Mon-
tenegro he insists on calling it 'Montenig-
ger.'
	THE JULIET of Miss Lilian Conway is
pronounced a great success; her mother,
Mrs. T. B. Conway taking the part of Ro-
meo.
	WOMAN CANNOT equal man in a variety
of ways—for instance in loafing round the
store, in a country post-office, or in the orig-
inality of her stupidity.
	COOL piece of business—Mr. Bergh ar-
resting New York coachmen for not blanket-
ing their horses. Kind of a nice bergh
way of doing things.
	"I GUESS I'll take this book," remarked a
Chicago lady to the clerk of a bookstore;
"It's got twice as much gold leaf on the
cover as any of the rest."
	"WHAT'S jography, Bill?" "It's a tellin'
of forrin lands that we know nothin' about
by cute chaps that's never seen 'em." Bill
got a Government situation.
	A ROCHESTER flirt had an offer of mar-
riage some time since, and rushing to the
hall she called up  stairs: "Mother! am I
engaged to anybody now?"
	A WISCONSIN editor says: "Owing to the
death of the editor of this journal there will
be no leader to-morrow, but look out for an
old ripper the day after.
	"IDIOT!" exclaimed a lady coming out of
the theatre one evening as a gentleman ac-
cidentally stepped on her trailing skirt.
"Which one of us?" blandly replied the
man.
	"YOUR feet are not very stylish," said a
man to his friend, whose feet were covered
with bunions. "No, not stylish; but ex-
ceedingly nobby," was the good-natured re-
ply.
	"A PLACE for everything, and everything
in its place," as the old woman said when
she stowed the broom, bellows, balls of
yarn, two doll-babies, curry-comb, three cats
and a gridiron into an old oven.
	"MR. Smith's compliments to Mr. Brown,
thinks it unnecessary that his piggs should
go through his grounds." Answer—"Mr.
Brown's compliments to Mr. Smith, thinks
it unnecessary to spell pigs with two g's.
	AN Irish peasant being asked why he
permitted his pig to take up quarters with
his family, made an answer abounding with
satirical naivete: "Why not? Doesn't the
place afford every convenience that a pig
can require?"
	IT certainly looks a little odd when a mar-
ried couple are visiting at a friend's house
to see his wife accidentally lay her hand
upon a coal shovel, and the husband, as if
by instinct, dodge behind the nearest ob-
ject that can afford him shelter.
	JUST as a train started out on the Great
Western road the other day, a woman leaned
forward and called to her husband, who was
ten feet away: "Say, Simon, did you wash
your feet and change your socks?" "No,
by swan!—forgot all about it," he replied.
"Well," she said, as she leaned back, "I

[Column 2]
feel it in mybones that there's going to be
a smash-up afore we get to London, and if
you are killed I'll just pretend I didn't know
ye."


