WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Mary White of Braintree, Vt., cel-
ebrated her one-hundredth birthday last
week, five generations together at tea.
	MISS Marian I. H. Allen, of Shrewsbury,
who was re-elected a member of the School
Committee for three years, has just comple-
ted her fiftieth term of school.
	MRS. Lucinda Parker of North Reading,
Mass., will be one hundred years of age
next October. Save a little deafness, she
has full use of her faculties.
	MISS Mattie Strickland, daughter of Hon.
Randolf Strickland ex-member of Congress
from Michigan, is delivering lectures in
Iowa upon the Suffrage question.
	MRS. James K. Polk has presented the
Tennessee Historical Society with a pen
made from an eagle's quill, dropped by an
eagle in Virginia, and presented to Presi-
dent Polk in 1845.
	A MOVEMENT for the higher education of


women is making rapid progress in Italy.
The Princess Margaret of Italy has placed
herself at the head of it, and attends every
week a reunion in Rome for its encourage-
ment. Her example has been followed by
many Italian ladies of rank.
	MISS Augusta Moore, who lately testified
in a certain famous case, according to the
New York Tribune could out-talk the law-
yers, bullied them on the cross-examination,
instructed the Judge, and came out of the
conflicts triumphant. Her cordial contempt
for the man against whom she testified was
only equaled by her inflexible determina-
tion to free her mind, no matter what the
lawyers might do or say to hinder.
	MRS. Mary Blake Clapp, of Dorchester,
died at Warwick, recently. She was born
in Warwick and has distinguished herself
by her acts of benevolence towards the peo-
ple of her native town. The day she was
eighty years old she gave to the Unitarian
Society one thousand dollars. Since, she
has given them one thousand more. She has
given one thousand dollars to the town for
the care and repair of the cemetery, also a
large number of volumes of books to the
town library. Mrs. Clapp also, a few years
since, gave $4000 to "Lincoln University," 
in Chester County, Pa., to found two scolar-
ships for the benefit of colored students in
that institution.
	THE school for girls established by the
third wife of the Khedive of Egypt, which
is one the greatest innovations the country
of the Pharaohs has ever seen, is turning
out a great success. The lady bought a
large house in a thickly peopled locality,
near the dancing dervishes, erected around
it a quadrangle of spacious buildings, hand-
ed them over to the education department,
but herself defrays the whole cost of main-
tenance. The school is free to all, and
when it had been open only four months
there were 206 boarders and 100 day schol-
ars, all Arabs or slaves. They discard the
oriental vail, and are dressed in frocks, pin-
afores and shoes, in English fashion; and
they sit, not squatting on the ground, but at
desks.


THE latest census returns show the ex-
istence of more trades and professions
among women than one would suppose pos-
sible. Beside women farmers, there are 45
female stock-herders, 5 barbers, 24 dentists,
5 hostlers, 3 professional hunters and trap-
pens, 5 lawyers, 525 physcians, 97 clergywo-
men, 7 sextons, 10 canal women, 129 dray-
women, 1 pilot, 4 gas stokers, 33 gunsmiths,
7 gunpowder-makers, 16 ship riggers, with
a large number of artizans, mechanics, in-
ventors, telegraph operators and teachers
of navigation.
	A QUARTER-inch rod of the best steel will
sustain 9,000 pounds before breaking; soft
steel, 3,000 pounds; iron wire, 9,000; cast
iron, 1,000 to 3,000 pounds; iron wire, 9,000; cast
iron, 1,000 to 3,000; copper wire, 3,000; sil-
ver, 2,000; gold, 2,500; tin, 3,000, cast zinc,
160; cast lead 50; milled lead; 200. Of
wood, box and locust the same size will
hold 1,200 pounds; toughest ash, 1,000, elm,
800; beech, cedar, white oak, pitch pine,
500; chestnut and maple, 650; poplar, 400.
Wood which will bear a weight a minute or
two will break with two-thirds of the force
acting a long time. A rod of iron is about
ten times as strong as a hemp cord. A rope
an inch in diameter will bear about two and a
half tons; but in practice it is not safe to sub-
ject it to a strain of more than about a ton.
Half an inch in diameter, the strength will
be one quarter as much; a quarter of an inch,
one-sixteenth as much, and so on.


