NOTES AND NEWS.

  	CALIFORNIA is to make a full exhibition
of her minerals, mines, wool, silk, fruits,
grain and fabrics at the centennial.
	HARTFORD IS terribly agitated with a
ghost which appears to have made a serious
impression on its inhabitants. The ghost
was first seen by a student of Trinity Col-
lege March 21st, and again on Monday night
by a watchman.
	A SECRET political organization is said to
have been started in Conn., the members of 
which pledge themselves to support Grant.
All its sessions are secret and all candidates
for admission are required to take the iron-
clad oath.
	IN ENGLAND, the women have a "Wo-
man's Protective and Provident League," a
"Woman's Educational Union," and a "Mar-
ried Woman's Property Act." Like the
women of America, they labor with una-
bated energy and perserverance to secure
their political rights, and to qualify them-
selves for the proper use of the same.
	THE CINCINNATI "Commercial" de-
scribes a "glorious spelling-match," which
came off in Pike's Opera House, the partici-
pants including editors, doctors, lawyers,
clergymen and merchants.  The house was
packed from pit to dome; it opened with in-
spiring music from the orchestra, and each
failure was followed by a shriek of discord
from the trombone. A brilliant gilt crown
was prepared for the champion speller, but
it did not adorn any victor's brow, every
one of the spellers failed.
	STRANGE FACTS are related concerning the
organ of vision. A schoolmistress in Eng-
land, who is blind, can readily tell if the
boys in a distant corner of the room are
playing instead of studying, while by a per-
son using the eyes no sound can be detected.
A few years ago there was a blind man in
England also, who was a surveyor and plan-
ner of roads, being guided by his ear in re-
gard to distances, as accurately as another
would be by the eye.  Much as the precious
power of sight is prized, and terrible as the
loss of it seems to those who have realized
its worth, it is wonderful to contemplate
that had we all been born without eyes, we
should never have thought of their value.


