				LEHI MARCH 23rd, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Our branch of the Relief Society is still
prospering; we held our sixth ANNUAL
MEETING on the 28th of October 1874. EL-
DER WM. BATES met with us, encouraged
and stimulated us by his words of comfort
and excellent instructions. We truly real-
ized that promise of the Savior's, that
"Where two or three are gathered together
in His name He will be there to own and
bless them."  During the past year our dis-
bursments for charitable purposes amounted
to three hundred and forty dollars, we also
made ninety yards of rag carpet for our
Tabernacle. I thank God that a few of us
have done as well as we have, but Oh how
little in comparison to what might be done
if we were united; if the sisters could only
realize that these Societies were schools, to
educate them in their duties in life, and the
principles of the everlasting Gospel! Dic-
tated by the Holy Spirit we can exchange
thoughts and sentiments, mutually instruct-
ing each other, comforting those who are
in sorrow, teaching the daughters of Zion
to trust in God and lean upon Him. He
will not withhold any good thing from
them, if they will seek to carry out His will,
neglecting not the privileges they enjoy.
If we meet together from time to time and
seek diligently to become intelligent, order-
ing and controlling our lives so as to influ-

[Column 2]
ence others for good, earnestly praying for
the Spirit of the Lord to guide our efforts,
we may become as it were enveloped in a 
mantle which will protect us from contact
with evil, and give us power over those
with whom we may be associated.
	Praying God to bless you, and all the
faithful, I subscribe myself,
				Yours in the Gospel,
					M. Stand Ring.

	The First Annual Meeting of the First
Ward Young Ladies Retrenchment Asso-
ciation held in the School House of  that 
Ward, Apr. 2. 1875.
	The President and ladies of the Society
tendered an invitation and conveyance to
the President and Counselors of the Senior
R.A. and some other Presidents and officers
of Societies. Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. Zina
D. Young, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, Mrs. Ra-
chel R. Grant and others were present at
the meeting and spoke upon subjects per-
taining to the progress of the Society and 
Home Industries.
	The Bishop manifested the warmest in-
terest in the movements being made, and
everything was pleasant, except the weath-
er, which was very unfavorable; however
there was a crowded house, which proves
that all "are not asleep in Zion."
	After the adjournment of the meeting,
the Bishop and invited guests repaired to 
the house of the President, Mrs. Sarah
Graham, and partook of a supper prepared
for the occasion.


