Guide Lessons.
LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week, April, 1916.
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. MIRIAM AND DEBORAH.
(Read the following references first:?For Miriam I Chronicles, 6:3; Exodus, 2:4-9; Exodus, 15:20, 21; Numbers, chapter 12.?For Deborah Judges, chapters 4 and 5.)
It is often thought by us modern Occidentals that the women of Bible times were timid, subjected creatures, without any influence outside the home. This may have been true of other nations in the ancient Orient, but it was not so among the Jews. A nation that can boast of a Miriam and a Deborah must have had an extremely high conception of the dignity of woman. No one can read the record of these two women's doings, brief as that record is, without feeling the high place which woman held in the Hebrew nation.
Miriam was the sister of Moses. This is a significant fact. The sister of Moses! Ranke, one of our most thoughtful historians, declares that Moses was "the most exalted figure in all primitive history," for the reason, largely, that he revealed to the world and incorporated in his people an idea "for all times and all nations." Is it probable that, as Moses' sister, Miriam did not share in the splendour of his genius and that, as his intimate companion for many years, she did not acquire power and influence through his mighty achievements? "I sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam," says the Prophet Micah, speaking for the Lord to Israel and referring to the redemption of the Hebrews from the bondage of Egypt. Here Miriam's name is associated with that of Aaron and of Moses as the divine instruments of that most memorable event in Old Testament history. And the pen that wrote the second book in the Bible calls her emphatically "the prophetess."
On three separate occasions is Miriam represented as taking part in some significant action: Once, when she loiters around by the Nile waiting anxiously to see what is to become of the infant Moses in his cradle of bulrushes by the water's brink, and then, when the princess suddenly finds the child crying and takes pity on it, she hurries to the scene, quick-wittedly, to ask whether she shall not fetch a nurse, and brings her own mother. And again, when she leads "all the women" of the Hebrew camp in the dance to the sound of the timbrel, to celebrate the victory of the Red Sea, as the carcasses of the Egyptians float upon the crests of the waves. "Sing ye to the Lord," she shouts, "for He hath triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider hath He thrown into the sea!" And, once again, when "Miriam and Aaron"?note the order of the names?"spake against Moses." They reproved him for his marriage to an Ethiopian woman. "The Lord," we are told, "came down in the pillar of the cloud, and stood in the door of the tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam." Jehovah was angry with them, and when the cloud was lifted from the tabernacle, "behold, Miriam became leprous, white as snow!" On Aaron's admitting that he and Miriam had "done foolishly" and "sinned," Moses cried to the Lord in her behalf, and she was made whole again. But she was required to stay without the camp of Israel for seven days, during which the people waited at Hazeroth. Miriam must therefore have been a remarkable woman. She was a prophetess doubtless in the sense that she, with Moses and Aaron, was divinely appointed to lead the Children of Israel out of their bondage in the land of Egypt to the Land of Promise. As a co-worker with her notable brothers, she must have partaken, with them, of the spirit of prophecy and revelation, and had her part in the direction of affairs, most probably among the women. A great honour, she is, to the nation that produced her.
In Deborah we have another remarkable woman. The wife of Lapidoth (Jewish tradition has it that she was the wife of Barak, who thus becomes the same with Lapidoth), she has been called a "torch-like woman" and a "furnisher of light"?something that is true of her in more than one sense. The sacred historian calls her a prophetess and says that she "judged Israel." There can be no reasonable doubt that Jehovah called her to the leadership of Israel at this time and that He inspired her in the great work of delivering her people from the power of their enemies?which proves that the Spirit of God rests alike upon Jew and Gentile, male and female, bond and free, and that He is no "respecter of persons."
It seems that at this time the Hebrew people had one of their dwindlings into unbelief, in the language of the Book of Mormon. The record says that "the Children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord" and that He delivered them "into the hand of Jabin, king of Canaan," whose seat was Hazor. Of this king the Israelites were afraid, for "he had nine hundred chariots of iron." For "twenty years he mightily oppressed the children of Israel," chiefly by means of the terrible Sisera, captain of his hosts. When this oppression reached the unbearable point, the Israelites "cried unto the Lord," as was their wont in deep distress, however forgetful they might have been in their prosperity. And so Jehovah raised up a deliverer to them in the person of Deborah, a woman.
Deborah, we are told, "dwelt under a palm tree." That was because she was a woman, for a woman could not teach in private but only in the open air, where all could assemble. "And the children of Israel came up to her for judgement," the record says. One day Deborah "sent and called Barak." She said, "Hath not the Lord God of Israel commanded, saying, Go and draw toward Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun"?two of the twelve tribes? Barak obediently came to Deborah, but for some reason?probably because he trusted more in the arm of man, or, strictly speaking, in the arm of woman, than in the arm of Jehovah?refused to go up against the enemy unless she went with him. She consented, warning him, however, that the glory of the victory, would belong to a woman. The result was as she had predicted. Of all the hosts of Sisera "not a man was left," and Sisera himself, fleeing on foot, fell into the hands of the artful Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, and was killed by her in the most ignominious fashion. Thus was Israel delivered from the hand of their oppressors by the inspired mind of a woman. Deborah is therefore a most extraordinary figure in Jewish history. She takes the part both of the man of peace and the man of war. In peace she attracts to her the people who seek counsel and the adjustment of difficulties, and in war such leaders as Barak. Whether or not Barak is regarded as her husband, the situation is equally remarkable. A commanding personality, performing the functions of judge, warrior, and prophet!
QUESTIONS.
Compare these two women, (1) in the situation they found themselves in, (2) in their opportunities, so far as we know them, and (3) in their character and works.
What would these two women be doing today should they have lived in this age of the world? Is there a place for them in our society? Give your reason for so thinking.
LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in May.
LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in May.
GENEALOGY.
LINKING THE PAST TO THE PRESENT.
There are two methods of studying history as there are two methods of studying genealogy. One method is to begin with the first known fact or individual and work on down to the present. The other is to begin with the living individual, or fact, and work on back from that starting point. The second method is the one we have followed this winter in preparing our genealogical lessons. Beginning with every individual member of the Relief Society, we have asked that a sheet be prepared for that individual. Next, we have asked each member to prepare a similar sheet for her husband. Then prepare sheets for each of her children, then grand-children. Now we will assume that every student member in the Society has her loose sheets prepared and wishes now to know how she can put her information into the living family record, which has been specially prepared by the Genealogical Society for this very purpose. There are a number of instructions given on the first page of the record itself, and if they are carefully read you will get some idea as to the method in which you are to proceed to fill up this record but there are a number of problems or questions which arise in this matter, and we will name some of them here, and give you our own suggestions concerning them.
In paragraph 3, of the instructions in the record, we read "It is recommended that the family groups commence with the eldest of the line, who were members of the Church in life, and that the others follow in order of seniority." Now, as a matter of fact, there is a point to be settled. Whose record is this to be, the record of the husband and his family including his wife and his children or is it to be a record of the woman and her family, including her husband? As personal illustrations sometimes clarify a lesson, we will say that a husband, Jacob F. Gates, for instance, has a large family in this Church and so has his wife, Susa Young Gates, whose father was Brigham Young. The record book would not take a tenth part of the Young family and, indeed, it would not hold all of the Gates. On the next leaf will come Jacob F. and wife with father joined the Church with his brother Thomas and his sister Mary. Their large families could not possibly be put into the son's book. These are personal problems. How shall we solve them?
Jacob F. Gates decided to write down his father and his mother on the first leaf of his book. On the next leaf comes his wife's father and mother with their children, including Mrs. Gates. Next, on the next leaf will come Jacob F. and wife with their children. This is a natural sequence as the husband was the oldest child of his father. On the next leaf appears Jacob's brother, Franklin, who was next in age with his family; and so on, taking his brothers and sisters and their families. Then follow Brigham Young and his wife Lucy Bigelow's three daughters with their families. Following these will come the oldest married Young child with her children, and so on, down the list of the Young children. The individual sheets are prepared for each one whose name appears in these family groups. It will take a long time to get all of the information concerning even this restricted family group. Yet that is the task set for the Gates family to do. On the pages where Jacob F. Gates' father's name appears, and on the page where Susa Young Gates' father's name appears is a note referring to other records where will be found the complete record of Jacob Gates' family, and the complete record of Brigham Young's family.
Another question that is being asked is, what shall be done where a man has more wives than one, and where the wife has more husbands than one? The two husbands' names would precede the name of the wife in the order in which they were married to her, while the wives' names would follow the husband's name in the order in which they were married to him.
It is also asked what shall be done where the husbands' and wives' families are sufficiently small to be included back to the grandparents in one book? The answer is simple. Include them both, but if there is any doubt about their all going into the one book, have separate records for the husbands' families and the wives' families, as in the Gates record and the Young families' record.
ART.
SPRING LANDSCAPE STUDY.
I have always felt that I could endure the long, cold winter, because at the end, spring would come. Spring?the beginning of things, the return of life, the return of the birds, their nesting time, the budding time. April comes with her baptism of the new year, and with a week's soaking rain washes away the dead ashes of the past.
THE SOAKING WET DAY IN SPRING.
Now begins a festive season for the poet and artist. Note the dark, water-soaked soil, the puddles of water, the miry roads, the wet sheds and fences. Look at the first bursting of the sun's rays through the heavy clouds. If you will study this landscape, you will find, when you next visit a gallery, a work of art that, without this study, you would not have noticed.
April's moods. The heavy rains over, a playful feeling of youth and new young life pervades all the landscape. The winds are no longer boisterous and blustering as in March, and are totally unlike the winter and fall three-day winds. Now they chase each other, first warm, then cold, then blowing warm again. Like an impulsive, merry child April turns suddenly from smiles to tears?short-lived, for while you tuck your new spring hat under your sleeve, fearing a drenching from that water-filled cloud, lo, the heavens open, and bursts of sunshine, showers of living gold, call life to seed and bud. I hope, dear sister, you are not so dried up, so sordid, so tied to small things, so wedded to the commonplace, that you cannot make an effort to break your shell, and look out into the real, beautiful world, because you are missing more than you think. Hunt for that beautiful patch of willow green that should be somewhere in your valley. May is passing in the season's procession, with her blossoms and flowers. The mountains, far beyond, once covered with snow, appear lace-capped. As the air becomes drier and warmer, clouds hang in great white billows in the sky. What a happy time for a walk into the fields, along the nearby hills.
QUESTIONS.
a. Where did you find the pussy-willows? b. What blossoms have appeared? c. What wild flowers are pushing their way out? d. How much grey colour is seen in the landscape? What change will come presently? e. Describe a rainy evening, uptown, with reflections of light upon the wet pavements. f. Describe the wettest day that you have seen this spring, with a team and wagon passing over the road. g. Describe a scene with spring blossoms and winter snow on the mountains.
ARCHITECTURE.
Devotees and Their Shrines, pp. 124-131.
CLASSIC PERIOD, THE CLASSIC REVIVALS, THE VICTORIAN GOTHIC.
You have all had missionaries abroad, and can no doubt collect scenes and pictures from various English towns and cities. A little effort might bring together a collection of these architectural works, which would be very helpful in developing the spirit of the buildings of the Classic Period, the Classic Revivals, and the Victorian Gothic?all beautiful styles of architecture. Study each illustration, and be able to tell each type given. Name its architect, and name it as a building. Review what has been gone over, by asking each member to name the various types of architecture, with the name of its architect, shown in cuts from pages 121-131. If possible, have a native of England describe the following:
a. Describe St. Paul's exterior?London. b. Describe St. Paul's interior. c. Describe Radcliffe Library?Oxford. d. Describe the Mansion House?London. e. Describe Fitzwilliam Museum?Cambridge. f. Describe other notable buildings in England.
LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in May.
THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME.
THE HOME BUDGET.
If the finances of the home are to be managed in a business-like way, one needs some systematic method of planning her expenditures. The object of this lesson is to give such a system. The plan given here is intended to be suggestive, not an absolute model for every family. But with it, as an example and basis, any woman can make changes to suit her own special needs. This plan is one which has been worked out through many years of experience, and has been found practical. It requires about three or four minutes each day to keep it up, with from fifteen to thirty minutes once a month to balance up. The first necessity is a blank book, size about 7? inches by 9? inches. As it is almost impossible to find one ruled to suit the individual family, it is better to get one which simply has the lines ruled in it, and do your own ruling into columns.
The division of expenses into separate headings and allowing what shall be spent for each, we call the budget. (See Fig. 1.) The divisions given here are simple and practical. It is well to put this in your account book on two pages facing one another. Rule a double column for each heading. The first column under each is for the allowance, the second is for what is actually spent for this item, each crosswise line is for a month. With this system, one can watch each month to see that she is not overspending; or, if she does do so one month, can watch to make up for it in the following months. At the end of June, the middle of the year, space is left for balancing up and finding out if there is left a fair share for the last half of the year. At the bottom of the page we balance again. After the totals are made, place in the line called "Surplus" the amount saved under the allowance; in the one called "Deficit," the amount spent more than the allowance.
The sample budget given here is for a family of five?father, mother, and three small children. The total income of the family is $1,500 a year. Three hundred of this is taken out for investments, savings, insurance, etc. The account of how these savings are spent may be kept by the man of the family, but the plans and payments coming under this head affect the spending under the family budget and must be taken into consideration when planning it. On the first of January a statement should be made on two pages facing each other in the investment account book. The left page shows every obligation to be met, whether to be paid this year or in the future. When this is totaled, the whole sum shows the total liabilities or indebtedness. Below, on the same page, the months are written down in order. Under each month is put down what has to be paid that month?interest, taxes, water taxes, insurance, or whatever it may be. The right page shows investments separated into groups?land and buildings, livestock and machinery, stocks and bonds, etc. Insurance policies are listed showing loan value, cash value, and insurance or death value. When this page is totaled we have the total assets?just what one is worth if debts were all paid. Thus in the small space of two pages is shown the family's exact financial standing at the end of the year, and all obligations to be met the coming year. The statement of payments to be met each month must be taken into consideration in planning the family expenditure for that month and for those before it, when the saving for the payment is being made.
With this before her the woman sits down to make her budget. (See Fig. 1.) The various expenses are arranged under seven divisions Shelter, Operation, Food, Clothing, Equipment, Advancement, and Incidentals. Besides columns for each of these, a column for total amount allowed, and total actually spent, is arranged, and finally a column for savings planned for.
The first heading is for Shelter. By this is meant the house and the expense of its upkeep?taxes, repairs, improvements, etc. Or if the house is rented, the rent goes into this column. We suppose this family to be renting at $20 a month. So the expense for the whole year can be accurately set down, and there is no need to watch this column to see that it does not overspend. But when the house is owned, this column requires more careful attention.
The next heading is Operation. Under this head are kept light, heat, and service. By service is meant help of any kind paid for, such as maid, laundry. In the family we are studying, you observe that amounts spent for operation differ from month to month and that at the half year a surplus exists which is needed later, for in July the annual supply of coal is laid in. A small surplus of $1.40 is found at the end of the year.
The next heading, Food, is one which requires careful watching. First, one must be sure the family are getting sufficient nourishing food, and second, that the bills are not mounting over the sum allowed. There is a small deficit here at the end of the year, but so very small that it is only by careful planning that budget and actual expenditures can so closely agree.
Clothing is another item which requires careful planning and careful spending. It would be well to divide this column into separate columns for each member of the family. Clothing will not be purchased at so much each month, but will come largely by the seasons. A good plan is to write down under each name what each one is going to need and make some estimate of what you will pay for each article. For example Mary: Hat ($3.50), Cloak ($6), Dress ($3.75), 2 Aprons ($1), 3 Union Suits ($2.50), etc. Add it up; it here amounts to $16.75. Compare that with what is allowed for this child and if it is too much study it carefully to see where the necessary saving can be made. Since the sum spent for clothing must vary so from month to month, it is the half yearly or yearly amount which must be watched.
Equipment is the term used to cover the various things needed to equip the home?furniture, dishes, linen, etc. This family spent about as planned for 1915, on this item, and saved some here.
Advancement covers expenses of education, recreation, church, charity, trips, etc.
Incidentals covers dentist and drug bills, and various items which seem to belong nowhere else. An allowance here sufficient to cover small incidental sicknesses is all that is intended. Of course, when more serious and expensive illnesses occur, the expense must be met by saving somewhere else. Perhaps Equipment will suffer first. The new furniture, dishes, or whatever was planned will have to be dispensed with. And anything else the family can do without will have to be considered, and finally it may eat into the intended savings for the year. Thus extra, unexpected expense, in any division of the budget, will have to be met by spending less than planned somewhere else. But if one looks carefully ahead, the year when any large readjustment is necessary will be the exception.
On the top line of the "Allowed" column, under the heading "Totals" place the total sums allowed for the whole year's expenditure under the budget. In the sample budget, this is $1,200. At the bottom of the "Spent" column, place the sum of all amounts spent, as found at the end of the year. In this budget it was $1,200.75, showing that the budget was overspent just $.75.
In order to keep up this budget and to plan intelligently for the next year, one must keep account of all money received and spent. Chart No. 2 shows a method of doing this. A few days only are filled out, but the amounts at the foot of the page are given for the complete month. In the account book, immediately following the budget, two pages facing each other are used for a month's account. The first page has ruled at the left edge a space for the date, and written across the top the month and year on the right hand page are ruled the ten columns.
Under the heading "House" are found Shelter and Operation, which correspond to the same two columns in the budget. Food, for convenience, is divided into two columns?one for groceries, the other for meat, dairy and eggs. Incidentals, Advancement, Clothing, and Equipment provide divisions the same as those in the budget. Under the heading "Total," the total amount of money spent each day is kept. This is obtained by taking the sum of the amounts in the several columns for that day. As this budget is planned and carried out on a cash basis, this sum gives the amount of cash spent each day. At the end of the month each column is added up and the amount placed at the bottom on the line called "Totals." Thus, one sees what has been spent for shelter, food, and every other item during the month. The sums of these several totals should balance the sum in the daily cash totals. In the January account given, it amounts to $87.50.
The cash received is kept in the last column at the right of the page. Above the top line is always placed the cash on hand from the previous month. January first was $1.60. The $1,200 allowed for the year's expense gives $125 a month. This is received the first of the month and placed on the first line of the "Cash" column. In some families the cash would not all be received by the woman in the one sum at the first of the month, and it might be derived from different sources, as for example, some from her husband and some from the sale of eggs, milk, or other articles. Under these circumstances it would be well to leave about two inches of space between the column "Total," and the column "Cash Received," to be used for writing in the items which would go into the cash column from time to time. We would suggest that even when eggs or any other products are exchanged for groceries or other articles that the cash value of the produce be entered in the cash column and the article bought put in the account the same as if paid for in cash. At the end of the month the difference between "Cash Received" and "Cash Spent" gives the cash on hand. In the sample budget the difference between the $126.60 of cash available for this month, and $87.50 spent, gives $39.10, which is the amount of cash on hand to be placed at the top of the "Cash" column for February.
The totals at the foot of the column on this page give the sums to be placed in the respective columns in the budget. You will note that the sums found here are just what are found in the "Spent" columns of the budget for January. Thus, the monthly account is the necessary basis for the budget current expenditures.
This may look complicated at first glance, but a little study shows that it is very simple. However, this particular system, as was stated in the beginning, is given as an example of a budget and account system which has been developed through years of household accounting. Any individual housekeeper may wish to add more headings or get along with fewer, or change some of them. This is all immaterial. Find the system and the headings which fit your needs and use that. But efficient, business-like housekeeping requires a system of careful financial management. And such a system needs some method of planning and accounting as its foundations.
QUESTIONS.
1. What is needed for managing the home in a business-like way?
2. What kind of a plan is given here? If not a model, why is it given?
3. What equipment is necessary for beginning this plan?
4. How arrange the book for the budget? What is placed in the first column of the double columns under each heading? What is placed in the second column under each?
5. What is planned for at the middle of the year? At the end of the year?
6. For how many and on what income is the sample budget (Fig. 1) given?
7. Tell of the business statement which must form the foundation of the household budget. Why is this needed first?
8. How many divisions in the sample budget?
9. What is meant by Shelter? What belongs under it? Would you put anything more under this?
10. Repeat Question 9 for Operation.
11. What belongs under Food? What changes would farm women make? How would you estimate the farm and garden produce?
12. Should we economise greatly on food?
13. How plan for Clothing? What is necessary clothing? Is clothing a wise place to economise?
14. What is meant by Equipment? Can one easily plan ahead for these things? Is this a wise place to economise?
15. What is meant by Advancement? Should one spend liberally or economically here?
16. What is placed under Incidentals?
17. Discuss the "Total" Column.
18. Why must one keep account of all money spent?
19. Discuss arrangement of house account as given in Fig. 2. Why should farm women leave a space between "Total" column and "Cash" column? What will she write in this space? May a whole page be better for this?
20. Should the cash value of farm produce be placed in "Cash" column and the food placed in the Food column?
21. Where are the totals at the bottom page to be placed in the budget?
22. Is this a complicated system? Suggest changes you consider an improvement.
The following tables are given only as suggestions. Sisters should arrange and re-arrange these tables to suit their own conditions. Farmers' wives can use money equivalents in their estimates.
[ADVERTISEMENT SECTION:]
Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 10% discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves.
Please Use Our Subscription Blanks
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
Mothers, educate your daughters?and sons?to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at
The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.
"Utah's Most Popular Music House"
Here are some of the things we are going to give away FREE ? Sewing Machine ? Refrigerator ? Morris Chair ? Vacuum Cleaner ? Hall Chime Clock ? Kitchen Cabinet
You don't have to purchase one penny's worth, to get premiums.
Daynes-Beebe Music Co R.S.M. 45 Main St. Salt Lake, Utah.
Please send me full information as to how I may obtain one or more of these beautiful premiums FREE.
Name ________________ Address ______________
"Older than the State of Utah"
Z. C. M. I.
The Most Interesting, Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections of the West
ARE REACHED VIA
School Shoes For Boys
Are made for service they will keep the boys' feet warm and dry.
Z. C. M. I.
ALLOVERS
are the ideal play garment for boys and girls. Cheap, serviceable.
Including Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts
Pacific Coast Excursions Daily to November 30th
For Descriptive Literature, address D. E. Burley, General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah
English and American ARCHITECTURE By GEO. M. ALLEN is in Mrs. Horne's Art Book,
DEVOTEES AND THEIR SHRINES.
Send to this office or to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned.
PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID
If the "DAY" has been set
Let me sell you the Ring
Diamond Rings $20 and up One Quality Only?the Best
McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
Plan Your 1916 Vacation
See America's Playground California
See the Thirteen Hundred Miles of Scenery via the
SOUTHERN PACIFIC
Half the pleasure of a trip is Planning it
For carefully illustrated itineraries Write or call on
C. L. McFAUL, District Passenger Agent Ticket Office Second Floor Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City