VOL. 7.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCT. 1, 1878.		No. 9.


[For the EXPONENT.
				HAPPINESS.

	What happiness supreme we humble mortals gain,
What power to redeem, by faith and works obtain,
If faithfully we seek the straight and narrow way,
And God's commandments keep, and never go astray.

Yes, surely as our day, our God will grace supply;
His promise is our stay, when clouds obscure the sky;
Our faith deliverance brings in sorrow's darkest hour;
Omnipotent to save, we know Jehovah's power.

No longer doubt and gloom our souls need fear oppress,
For truth and beauty bloom, increasing happiness;
With joy our lives abound, tranquility and peace.
May we be faithful found, till sin and sorrow cease.

God's chosen ones declare "this is the eleventh hour"—
Our King will soon appear, majestic in his power:
The Spirit whispers oft how glorious it will be,
Its music, sweet and soft, says Zion shall be free.
	Salt Lake City.				ELLEN H. WALLACE.


[Column 1]
					[For the EXPONENT.
			WOMAN.

		BY HANNAH T. KING.

	This being seems to be the theme, the
problem of the 19th century. The queries
concerning her are—What are her rights?
What her position? What are her capabili-
ties? Is she equally accountable with man
in her sphere? What was she sent on earth
for? The Lord said, "It is not good for
man to be alone, I will make him a help-
meet for him." She came from His hands
a perfect woman—and I would observe here,
in the penalties they afterwards incurred,
their punishments were entirely distinct;
labor was laid upon the man, on the woman
a far severer trial—"In sorrow shalt thou
bring forth children, and thy desire shall
be to thy husband, and he shall rule over
thee!" shewing plainly that this was not
the original position in either case. In
meditating on the life of woman, we must
be certain that God has been with her
from that day and hour; for, without the
power of His Spirit, she must often utterly
have failed; instead of which, her "cove-
nant of suffering" has been borne with dig-
nity, with patience, with meekness, with
passive endurance, kissing the rod, bowing
beneath the hand, worshipping the Judge!
The exceptions to this character are so few,
comparatively, that they simply establish
the rule. When my mind runs back into
the irrevocable past, as in open vision, and
I realize the incalculable amount of suffer-
ing, mental and coporeal, more especially
the latter, she has ever passed through, she
rises before me a being like our Savior,
bearing her cross, and crowned with thorns!
	But I pass—she has indeed been in
school, and generally exhibits the rigid
training through which she has come up—
yet "through much tribulation." But God
has said in these last days: "Arise, daugh-
ter of Zion, put on thy singing robes;
God is thy Father and thy husband! and
He will make thy righteousness clear as
the noon day. His Spirit shall go with
thee to the end of time! Lean on Him, and
He will direct thy steps, and be thy friend
and counselor." Is woman aware that it is
God who has enfranchised her? Does she
realize that He has mapped out her destiny,
past, present, and to come! The Spirit of

[Column 2]
God is moving upon the waters, the Angel
of Truth has descended "with healing in
his wings," and the torch of ireedom liv-
ing in his hand; and liberty shall reign
upon the earth. Half the world has ever
been woman! shall she be forgotten?  Ver-
ily no! Verily no!! Man recoils from grant-
ing freedom to woman, fearing his premier-
ship may be endangered; but surely he
must know enough of the character of wo-
man to have seen that the best educated
are those who never intrude on the boun-
dary of another, be it man or woman.
When I speak of education, I mean those
who are schooled in home tuition, which is
always the most powerful and enduring.
	As I write on this subject, a character
rises up in my mind, which may illustrate,
and certainly will embellish my remarks—
one who has lived in our day, but who has
been gathered to his fathers prematurely;
one descended from and trained in a proud,
dogmatical, punctilious old country. Prince
Albert! a name revered by the English na-
tion to-day, and will illumine her history!
Did he feel that he tarnished the glory of
his manhood when, in accordance with the
laws and customs of England, and all her
nobles who hold offices under the crown, he
had to bow the knee and take the oath of
allegiance to the Queen of England, as her
loyal subject, and, rising, stood ever after
side by side with that regnant lady, as her
liege lord, husband and friend, beloved and
appreciated by her, to almost a species of
idolatry, to the last hour of his life; one
whom she mourned so devotedly and so
long, that she caused almost a jealous anger
in her people, who, after leaving her in
silent seclusion for two whole years, felt
then she ought to remember she was their
Queen-Mother, and again resume the im-
perative duties of her high and exalted
station. All this spoke loudly that he lost
no prestige, no respect, no dignity, by the
act of allegiance, and that other she was
constantly called upon to perform, but will
ever stand as an exemplar of a noble
prince, a devoted and wise subject, a faith-
ful husband and a tender and and most watch-
ful Father. Had he been living on the
earth to-day, I feel that his voice would be
heard, favoring the enfranchisement of
woman, and emancipation from many of
her disabilities. Victor Hugo has raised
his voice in public in favor of this effort,
also Gladstone, and Beaconsfield, and many
other far-seeing minds. God works by in-
struments, and such are these I have named.

	It is good to have friends, good to feel
they hold us in their hearts, give us their
sympathy, and throw their influence into
the scale in our favor, but the lever-power
must spring from ourselves—we must be
ready and willing in the day of our power!
Hence, my sisters, let us walk wisely, cau-
tiously, but yet unsleepingly in this mo-
mentous era of woman. Let us endeavor
to prepare ourselves (especially the young
sisters) for whatever may be ahead of us,
that if a wider field of usefulness be opened
for us, we may be enabled to maintain an
equilibrium, a cool, calm dignity, that shall
disarm sarcasm and ridicule. Increased
freedom induces increased responsibilities,
and in all the affairs of life, humiiity is th

[Column 3]
only safe road. To have the power to do
good is a blessed boon, and blessed are
those who, having the power, have the
will also.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	CONGRESSES ON many subjects have been
held in Paris this summer, but none so im-
portant for the readers of this Journal, or
for the social needs of our generation, as
that on woman's rights, which met on the
25th of July in the Salle du Grand-Orient
de France, 16, Rue Cadet. The different
sections have, we understand, been at work
throughout the past month. Detailed re-
ports both of the inaugural meeting and of
the subsequent transactions will not be pub-
lished until the close of the proceedings,
but the accounts which have reached us
show that the meeting on the 25 of July
was one of unusual interest. Mdlle. Maria
Deraismes, whose name is familiar to the
readers of the "Avenir des Femmes," made
a preliminary speech on the special pur-
poses for which they had met; after which
Monsieur Antide Martin, a member of the
Municipal Counsel of Paris, and Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe were elected presidents. The
regular proceedings then began by an ad-
dress from Mdlle. Maria Mozzoni, of Milan,
who attended as delegate from the Demo-
cratic Association of Milan, and was, more-
over, charged by her Government with the
official mission of preparing a report of the
proceedings. This double mission height-
ened the interest with which her paper was
listened to; it dealt with the inequalities
of the French Code, and was received with
continual hearty applause.
	Very cordial, too, was the reception given
to a paper, on the broader moral aspects of
equal right and justice, from Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe. Miss Graham Jones, of Chi-
cago, representing the National American
Women's Suffrage Association, was also
warmly received.
	The meeting was marked by one melan-
choly feature: the announcement made by
Monsieur Richer of the death of the Count-
ess Malliani de Trave[-]sari, who died sud-
denly at Bergamo as she was on the point
of starting for this congress, in which she
had taken a most earnest and active inter-
est. A telegram of condolence was de-
spatched to the Count Malliani, as a mark
of the sympathy felt by all present at this
loss to the cause of the advancement of
women.
	The Congress has, we understand, at-
tracted considerable attention from the
French press; the Bonapartist section of
which treat it mainly with ridicule, while
the Republican section, for the most part,
show their sympathy with its object.—Wo-
men's Suffrage Journal.


MRS. JULIA Ward Howe is going to
Egypt. Mrs. Howe was one of the presi-
dents of the Woman's Congress in Paris.
She lectured in Florence, Italy, before the
Philological Association and received great
applause, as well as the highest encomiums
of praise from the press.


66		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Sept. 14, was well attended.
Coun. E. R. Snow presided. After the ex-
ercises of singing, prayer and reading of 
minutes from Junior Associations, Coun. E.
R. Snow made the following remarks: "I
am well pleased with the minutes we have
just heard; we have listened to good prin-
ciples; and these meetings are a power, and
it is growing. If you could have heard
Elder Lorenzo Snow preach in Ogden, it
would have gladdened you. He spoke of 
the effort of the sisters, and appreciated
our works, and prophesied of our future.
The sisters feel weak now, but the time
will come when they will speak with the 
eloquence of angels. I attended the Quar-
terly Conference of Box Elder Stake Relief
Society. Every branch of that organization
in the county was reported. The various
Presidents reported verbally in the after-
noon.
	"In these meetings our young ladies'
minutes form a very interesting portion. I
have just been thinking what a vacancy it
would make if they were left out. The
minutes of the Children's Association, read
by Mrs. B. W. Smith's grand-daughter,
were as interesting as though spoken by an
Elder. They foreshadow the future abili-
ties and positions of these children.
	"While in Brigham City, we selected the
President and Counselors over the Primary
organizations for each ward, and the Elders
set them apart. The next day about two
hundred and fifty children attended a spe-
cial meeting. I told them it was their 
meeting, to worship God. They sang
standing and prayed kneeling. They paid
good attention to all they could understand.
They expressed themselves glad to have
an organization of their own, so they would 
not be afraid to speak. We consulted with
the brethren, they were favorable and gave
us all necessary aid. Committees visited
each house, to ascertain the number of 
children between five and ten years of age.
—we thought that the best period to begin
work with. As the work progresses, we
shall have older children included. Mrs.
Harriet Snow, President of Box Elder Stake
Relief Society, and I went to Willard City,
and with the brethren organized the Pri-
mary Associations. We took a vote tose-
cure the aid of the mothers. In their at-
tire it does not matter how plain or ordi-
nary it is, cleanliness is the main point. I
would like to know how many in this con-
gregation are willing to unite with us and 
sustain the Primary Associations here. (On
motion the entire assembly rose to their 
feet.) Thank you, sisters, we will have it.
We want to take the hearts of the young
while they can be impressed. Many of our
young ladies have not been trained so that
they were anxious to unite with the Young
Ladies' Associations. We want it different
after this; we want them to grow up in
such faith that they need not rely upon
doctors. Many of our mothers have not
time, above the things of the world, to
train the immortal soul. We want to train
such mothers. It is hard to dispel the
spirit of the world. I have conversed with 
two Bishops, who favored these move-
ments."
	Mrs. Louie Felt was called to the stand,
and was nominated to preside over the Pri-
mary Association of the 11th Ward, Mrs.
Lizzie Felt and Louie Morris as Counselors.
These sisters were unanimously sustained.
	Miss Snow resumed her remarks, and re-

[Column 2]
ferred specially to the coming Territorial
Fair.
	Mrs. Watmough, Mrs. Julia Howe, Mrs.
E. Thomas, Mrs. M. Wilcox, Mrs. E. Steven-
son, Mrs. M. R. Thompson and other sisters
occupied the afternoon in speaking on the
duties of mothers, the training of children,
the principles of the Everlasting Gospel,
the blessings received from day to day, the
gifts and manifestations of the goodness of
God to His children who obey His com-
mandments.

		EAST PORTERVILLE, Sept. 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We were favored with a visit from Sisters
E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne and E. Davis,
Aug. 19. We met in our schoolhouse,
which was filled to overflowing with men
and women. The President of the Relief 
Society, Mrs. Angeline Porter, presiding.
Meeting opened with the usual exercises.
After a few introductory remarks by our 
President, Mrs. Horne addressed the audi-
ence; said she was pleased to meet with us;
said we were all in the same school, and
should be apt scholars. Said the first time
that she ever spoke in public President
Young, some of the Twelve Apostles and
several Bishops were present; thought her
feelings could be better imagined than de-
cribed. She hoped every woman in this
settlement belonged to the Relief Society;
also hoped the brethren were willing their
wives should belong. Thought the mothers
should attend to family prayers in the ab-
sence of their husbands. Instructed the 
mothers in regard to rearing their children
and having the proper watch-care over
them; parents were responsible in a great
measure for the acts of their children; spoke
of her own experience, and encouraged
home-manufacture.
	Miss E. Snow said, when we first came
to these valleys we had not the chance for
education that we have now; the first thing
to be thought of then was the bread and
butter, and after we had got that, the next
thing was a schoolhouse wherein to educate
our children. In early days of the church,
the children were taught to believe the 
Gospel fully; they then had faith; said now
some young men were called to go on mis-
sions before they had opened their mouths
in prayer at home; true, they were honest
in their hearts. And when they first spoke
in public it was very brief, because their
minds were not trained as they ought to be.
Spoke to the girls concerning the fashions
of Babylon that are introduced in our midst,
and have been drank into by our young
girls. Said instead of meeting together to
praise their God, their minds were lured
away with fashion. Said she, with other
sisters, was appointed to organize the 
young ladies of Zion, that there might be a
mutual improvement among the young;
that there had already been a great change,
and this was only a beginning. She en-
couraged education, but the most important
thing to obtain for our young people was
spiritual knowledge. Asked the mothers
if they wanted to have their children grow
up in honesty; if they did to beware them-
selves, and practice the principles of hon-
esty and truth. Encouraged the young in
their associations, showing the path they
should walk if they took the right course.
Asked the sisters if they realized the sa-
credness of these societies; said we had
our own souls to save, and have we time to
look at each other's failings? No, we have
not. Man never knew, ear never heard of 
the blessings the Lord has in store for those

[Column 3]
that love Him. Spoke to quite a length on
home affairs, touching upon a good many
different subjects, including home manu-
facture. Requested all those who had on
homemade hats or bonnets to stand up;
said she felt proud to see so many.
	Mrs. Davis said: "Sister Eliza has been
instructing us on home manufacture, and 
she wished us to sustain the EXPONENT, as
it is all made at home." Spoke about the 
right we had to vote; as we had the privi-
lege of the ballot given us, we should be
dutiful in this particular as voters.
	Bishop Porter said he fully endorsed every
word, and hoped we would carry out the
remarks of the sisters.
	President Angeline Porter felt to tender
a vote of thanks to those who had so nobly
entertained us this evening; said if we 
wanted to be benefitted we must put in
practice their counsel in our lives.
	Singing. Benediction by our Patriarch,
Alma Porter.
	MRS. ANGELINE PORTER, Pres't.
	MISS. AMY A. PORTER, Sec'y.

		MINK CREEK, Aug. 14th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The sisters were together in the meeting
house on the 17th of April, 1878. Bishop
Rasmussen and Counselors were present,
and instructed the sisters in regard to the 
organization of the Relief Society. The
Bishop gave the sisters the privilege of 
choosing their president, and Christene
Keller was chosen. Emma Rasmussen was
selected First Counselor, and Christene
Peterson Second Counselor; Catherine Kel-
ler, Secretary, and Christene Neilson, Trea-
surer; we have sixteen members enrolled,
we meet twice a month, and a good spirit
generally prevails. We have made a quilt
and donated it to the Temple in Logan.
We are not very rich, but we wish to help
build up the kingdom of God. The EXPO-
NENT is always welcome to us, and we wish
to continue it.
	We remain your sisters,

		CHRISTENE KALLER, Pres't.
		CATHERINE KELLER; Sec'y.

	HILLSDALE, IRON CO., Aug. 13, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We have an organization here with about
seventeen members. We are a small ward
and somewhat scattered, on account of some
living on their farms and ranches, but we
hold monthly meetings for instruction, &c.,
and some working meetings, and we are
trying to do what we can to forward the
great cause. We have very good meetings;
our Bishop and others of the brethren meet
with us from time to time and give us
much good instruction. We were organ-
ized just about one year ago now, and we
can see where we have made some im-
provement, and hope to be able to make
more during the next year. The EXPO-
NENT is a source of great comfort and in-
struction to us, and if every sister prized
it as I do there would be many more copies
taken by the people than there are at the
present time. We feel very much inter-
ested in the storing of grain, believing the
time will come when we will need it, as we
have so often been told by Pres. Young and 
others. May God bless the interests of 
Zion and all the faithful.

	As ever your Sister,
			LYDIA A. JOHNSON,
					President R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR MISSION.

BY CLARA B. HEATH.
Lost! in the city lanes and streets,
A hundred girls with their faces white!
Once they were fair, and pure, and sweet,
Guileless and true, and they loved the light;
Now in the fog of unbelief,
Stained with many a crimson stain,
Careless, defiant, grown blind and deaf,-
Pitiless, too, in their self-disdain--
Surely they need a warning word,
Friendly smiles and a helping hand;
Shall they look in vain to the Christian church,
That blessed light of a Christian land?

Lost! by the Ganges, years ago,
A hundred girls with their faces dark!
They never knew of a Savior's love,
They never knew of a sheltering ark.
Cradled in infamy, dark and deep,
Minds uncultured, and hearts unfed,
Passion awake, and conscience asleep,
What did it matter, living or dead?
Hundreds more tread the self-same track,
Leading down to the gates of death.
What can we do? O sisters fair,
Pray! It is never a waste of breath.

Lost! for the want of a little faith,
Many a flower in quaint disguise;
Dying a painful, lingering death,
Slowly, like hope from a maiden's eyes.
Lost, for the want of a little care,
Many a bud of hope and trust,
Some that would have been wondrous fair,
Wither and crumble away in dust.
Lost in Christian and heathen lands,
Many a noble, generous aim,
All for the want of a helping hand,
Looking for succor that never came.

Mothers, and sisters! the harvest white,
Lies about us on every side,
Waiting the reapers; and earnest cry,
Comes from over the ocean wide,
"Come and help us, we need your aid;
Come where the sun is warm and high;
Strengthen the hands that weary grow,
Fill the places of those that die;
Give us your prayers; our need is great!
Give of your goods; the Lord will provide.
Patiently, bravely we toil and wait;
Send us workers; the door is wide,"

Surely a blessing your efforts will crown,
Never will perish one grain of good;
No one need fear the Master's frown,
If she has simply done what she could.
Who of us all cannot strengthen the band
Tolling afar that the dead may live?
Who can measure with puny hand
The interest which the Lord will give?
And one has talent, and one has gold,
And "all have something," the record saith.
Give of your best to the Savior's cause,
Pray! it is never a waste of breath.
						-Ex.


R. S. REPORTS.

UNION, LITTLE COTTONWOOD,
				Aug. 24th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We were organized into a Relief Society
Aug. 9th, 1877, by Bishop Ishmael Phillips
and Counselor Marion H. Brady, other
brethren being present. After the opening
exercises, singing and prayer, the follow-
ing officers were unanimously sustained:

	Elizabeth Richards, President,
	Lucy Brady,		} Counselors,
	Ann Griffiths,	}
	Mary Ann Smart, Secretary,
	Sarah Ann Griffiths, Assistant Secretary,
	Sarah Morrel, Treasurer.
	Since then our Treasurer has moved
south, and her office is filled by her sister,
Mrs. Lucy Brady, Acting Treasurer, with a
corps of teachers and the names of thirty-
two members enrolled. We hold our meet-
ings semi-monthly. Our Annual Report is
as follows:


Donations received..................$171.94
Disbursed, to Temple............... 37 80
To the Poor............................... 45 48
For Sacramental Service.......... 4 90
For Stake Book, &c.................. 2 75
3000 Shingles........................... 9 75
Cedar Blocks............................. 3 50
Calico......... .............................. 2 00
For sundry purposes................. 11 86
Remaining in Treasury, Cash,.... 34 15
Flour and Sundries.................... 9 75
The 24th of July was celebrated here by
the brethren turning out in a lively and
interesting manner, to harvest the seven
acres of wheat belonging to the Society,
the land being lent  us by Br. Brady.  While
the brethren were harvesting, the sisters
were none the less busy preparing a sump-
tuous dinner, which all were invited to
partake of freely.  After which the Sun-
day School children marched through the
settlement, headed by the string band,
banners, &c. Songs, recitations, speeches
and dancing cloes our memorable day, all
feeling well, and grateful for the blessings
and bounties that an all-wise God had
blessed us with.
We expect to build a granary this fall.
May the Lord bless all that labor with so
much zeal for the cause of truth and dis-
eminating the principles of our most holy
religion.  Your sisters,
	ELIZABETH RICHARDS, President,
	MARY ANN SMART, Secretary.


PEOPLE'S TERRITORIAL CONVEN-
TION.
HEADQUARTERS PEOPLE'S TERRITORIAL
CENTRAL COMMITTEE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
Sept. 10, 1878.
A people's territorial convention, com-
posed of delegates from the several coun-
ties, will convene at the City Hall, Salt
Lake City, on Monday, Oct. 7th, at 6 p. m.,
to nominate a delegate to the Forty-sixth
Congress.
The number of delegates to the conven-
tion has been apportioned as follows (being
based, as nearly as possible, upon the num-
ber of representatives to the Legislative
Assembly):
COUNTY                 NO.          COUNTY                   NO.
Salt Lake.....................18            Sanpete......................   5
Utah............................. 8             Wasatch....................    2
Juab............................. 3              Summit....................    2
Millard........................ 3              Morgan....................    2
Beaver......................... 3              Davis.......................    4
Piute............................ 1              Box Elder................    3
Iron.............................. 3             Tooele......................    2
Kane............................ 2             Weber.......................   5
Washington................. 2              Cache.......................   7
Sevier.......................... 2              Rich.........................    1
Total...........................................................................78
The leading men in each county are par-
ticularly requested to adopt such measures
as will secure a proper representation at the
coming convention; also to take the steps
necessary before the election as will give to
the candidate chosen by the convention as
delegate, the fullest support of the regis-
tered voters of the people's ticket.
By order of the committee,
JOHN SHARP, Chairman,
THEO. MCKEAN, Sec'y.


MISS FRANCES E. Willard intends pass-
ing the coming winter in temperance work
in the State of Illi[-]ois.


[For the EXPONENT.
	MEMORY AND OBSERVATION.

	As I sit and think, my memory takes me
back to my childhood days, and I think
with pain what a wilful, quick-tempered,
naughty girl I was. I think how much
trouble it caused my darling mother, and I
think, too, of her gentleness and patience
with me, how, instead of beating me, as I
have seen some mothers do their children,
she would talk to me in kindness; with
tears in her eyes, and no matter how hard I
was to conquer, she would always win the
victory; and nothing else would have done
it.
	Memory also brings to my mind how,
with an infant babe only two weeks old,
she forsook father, mother, kindred and
friends, home and all things dear, but her
own immediate family and the love of
truth, and endured, with heroic courage,
the hardships and trials of the Saints, and
then crossing the plains laid down her life
striving to obey the Gospel. I was then
only seven years old, but my dearest recol-
lections are of her, and her gentleness and
sweetness; and of dear father, too, for I
never remember hearing them disagree.
	To them, with the help of my Heavenly
Father, I owe all I am, and I can say, in
humbleness and thankfulness, I have tried
to cultivate an even, cheerful disposition,
and the trial has not been an entire failure.
	Dear mothers, my observation teaches
me that it is much better to rule with love,
kindness and firmness. When I see a
mother deliberately double a rope and whip
her daughter until her flesh is bruised for
weeks, I cannot help thinking, poor, igno-
rant soul, it must surely be for lack of wis-
dom that you act thus, for I know you de-
sire to do the child good. O how infinitely
much depends upon the character of our
children, and this upon the training they
receive from us. Mothers in Israel, actual
and prospective, the duties now incumbent
upon you might well make angels falter,
nor can you become mothers without incur-
ring those respousibilities, but if you are
wise, and properly train your children, how
great, how glorious are your privileges. O
mothers, I fear and tremble when I think
how imminent is our danger, and when I
see so many of our youth growing up in
ignorance and lawless rowdyism. My
greatest hope is in the mothers—may God
open our eyes and stir up our souls to our
momentous duties, and help us to properly
train our children, and may He enable us
to be what we ought, for as we are, so will
our children be.
	And let us exhort our girls to be wise in
choosing their husbands. Do not choose
for the father of your children men who
will get drunk, and spend all their earnings
for strong drink—men who will come into
your presence using obscene and profane
language and abuse you in every way. But
choose, rather, men of refinement and cul-
ture, and men of God. You have as much
right to demand virtue, honesty and sobri-
ety from them, as they from you. And if
they are not such men, can you expect your
sons to be? if you choose for their fath-
ers men of vice and degradation, can you
expect them to be wise and virtuous, de-
spising all that is low and vulgar, and
searching and grasping for all that is good
and pure? No, indeed. Then, I repeat,
be wise, and raise up children that will
honor and obey the priesthood, and be as
priceless gems in the kingdom of God.
But I fear I am trespassing. May God help
us to be all we desire in righteousness.
					GIPSEY GOLDEN.


68		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEP. 15, 1878.


WOMEN AS EDUCATORS.

	A great deal is said of the duties of mothers,
and in many instances much blame is attached
to them for the immorality, lack of honesty
and uprightness, and want of high moral tone
in society at the present time.  It is said that
mothers neglect their children for dress, to
follow fashion and outrival their associates,
that another class desire to take the place of
men, and are unfitting themselves for domestic
life and home education; and altogether that
"the times are out of joint," and as in the days
of Adam down to the present time it is wo-
man's fault.
	"What we want is better mothers," is heard
on every hand; "those who are contented in
their sphere, and not assuming more rights and
privileges than belong to them."  Are you so
sure they have got all their rights?  "Certainly;
haven't they got men to protect them, to work
for them, to nourish and cherish them?"  This
answer implies a great deal and covers a wide
area; but what are the facts?  Every one ac-
quainted with the existing state of society in
the world knows how far this is carried out in
the lives of men and women.  That there are
promises of this nature, solemn covenants too,
all are aware, but how frequently are they pro-
faned and broken until confidence is lost, and
the very structure upon which society is based
has become unreliable.  The relation of men
and women to each other is an ever underly-
ing principle of the great human problem,
which mankind are all engaged in solving.
	It has become quite a common practice with
people now a days to cry out against evils, from
the pulpit, the platform, and the press, to de-
nounce, to criticize and censure all without
offering any remedy that can be grasped by
the multitude - any potent healing balm for
the many grievances and errors that are con-
stantly being developed.
 When the imperative need of some
certain element is felt, the usual method is to
search for and apply it.  The world has become
aware that there is a deficiency in society now
that wants remedying, and they desire better
mothers.  The desire is good, and would no
doubt be of great benefit, but what are the con-
ditions of the sex at this time, what the facili-
ties conducive to a higher moral tone, and the
prospects for a change for the better. Do men
consider how much they themselves owe to
their mothers?  Do they know that she who
bore them went "down into the dark valley of
of the shadow of death" to endow man with life,
and in all tenderness she nursed, tended and
cherished her offspring through all the perils
incident to childhood, which imply all sorts of
self-denial, toil and patient endurance.  The
proudest man, in all his might, and strength,
and wisdom has the same peculiar history.
	Is it not indeed necessary that woman, upon
whom the bearing, rearing, and intellectually
developing the child rests, should be endowed
with all the advantages of education and con-
dition it is possible for her to enjoy?  Can wo-
man be too well qualified for the position of
mother? The highest and holiest relations of
life should certainly be worthy our strongest
efforts, and claim our best thoughts.
 It is customary to call woman a teacher, an
educator; - what the children imbibe in early
life strongly marks, or mars, their future;
mothers are expected to lay the very founda-
tion of virtues, on which the man, or woman,
bases the whole edifice of human character;
then ought not woman to be prepared, to be
qualified, to be surrounded with all the most
favorable conditions for such an education as
shall strengthen and endow her, physically,
mentally, morally and spiritually, for the high-
est phase of woman's life - Motherhood?
	But while woman strives to aid mankind,
may she not be privileged not only to dispense
good around her own private hearth-stone, but
to others extend a helping hand: reach out to
those who have not the same great courage,
the same understanding, whose conditions,
perchance, have not been so favorable to a
higher life, or who may have been misguided?
If even a little good can be done to others who
are hungering for it, or who stand in fearful
need, why should woman be debarred from
crossing her own threshold in her mission of
good works.  If there has been a great mistake
made, and society is to-day degenerated, why
should not woman, in connection with her
brother man, assist in regenerating?  Is it not
woman whose heart is agonized by the evils
with which the earth is filled?  Are not her
maternal instincts strong in regarding the suf-
fering of all humanity?  Does not her bosom
glow with a maternal love that is universal to
some extent, as well as individual!  Can man
redeem the world without woman's assistance?
He knows he cannot; he knows that in con-
nection with the strength and power of his
manhood, woman's gentler and kindlier ele-
ments are necessary to a high state of civiliza-
tion.  In countries where women are only sub-
ordinate and servile, what is the effect upon
society?  A constant tendency to barbarism.
Then, the more generally intelligent woman
is, the more influence she will be able to exert
through all possible avenues, towards improv-
ing social life; then so much deeper, and high-
er, and broader, and stronger will her system
of educating be.  If society is ever to be ele-
vated to a higher moral or spiritual condition,
then the power of woman must be sensibly
felt in its renovation.  That the world wants
better mothers there is no doubt, women who
regard sacredly the condition of motherhood,
women who make more thorough preparation
for duties than they do to dance, or sing, or at-
tract admiration, women who will choose their
husbands, for their sterling integrity, honesty
and uprightness.  The large majority of women
are not so trained and educated.  Our heart
goes out warmly to those women who have
much poverty and prejudice to overcome; they
need sympathy and teaching, and who can be
their educators, who  so well adapted as woman
herself, who, knowing all the longings and
needs of woman, all the suffering and pain in-
cident to maternity, knows how to enter into
the subject with a special inspiration.  Men
have no reason to fear the help of woman in
the great battle-field of life, for if she becomes
more self-helpful, more capable of standing
alone, she will be all the better qualified to
assist man in the many heavy burdens that
devolve upon him.
	Let us not forget to thank all noble men who
generously protect and defend women; and
also all brave, true-hearted women, who incur
ridicule, and opprobrium and frowns, who,
though wounded at every step they take, still
press forward in the path of conviction, and
seek to educate woman up to a higher standard
of intelligence.  Woman's part in the great
programme of creation is not only an essential
but a lofty one, and she should so consider it.
"To bear the souls of men" and women.  What
greater honor need she aspire to, except to
educate them in the path of duty.  And the
very sorrow through which woman passes in
fulfilling this great law of her being, should
make her a thousand times dearer to man, for
there is a sacredness about motherhood that
stands alone in its sublimity; and there is a
glory attending it, of which the weakest and
most unsophisticated of mothers possess a
timid sort of consciousness. 
							E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE on hand for publication reports
from Millville, Wellsville, Clarkston, Hyrum,
Tooele, Deweyville, Honeyville, Wanship,
Peoa, Holden, Glenwood, Ephraim, Morgan,
Bloomington and Santaquin; also poems and
prose articles; but we are always glad to re
ceive contributions, that we may have a va-
riety to select from.

	THE QUARTERLY Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held on Saturday. Oct. 5th, in
the Tabernacle, commencing at 10 o'clock a.
m. At the last Quarterly Conference, many
of the sisters did not understand that they
were expected to attend, but thought it was
especially for the brethren; we trust it is not
so now, and that the sisters will show their
earnestness in the interests of Zion by coming
out "enmasse."

	THE SEMI-ANNUAL Conference will com-
mence on Sunday, Oct. 6th. The sisters will
surely need no urging to attend Conference, al-
though this is the season for housewives to be
drying fruit, preserving, pickling, etc., but do
not let these household cares hinder you from
attending meeting. Be so judicious in manag-
ing that you can go and hear the teachings of
the servants of God. Sickness or the care of
little children, should be the only real hin-
drances.

	WE WERE favored with a call from Elder Eli
H. Pierce, of Brigham City, who has recently
returned from a mission to the States. Although
only a young man, this was his second mission.
He left here Aug. 2d, 1877, and arrived at home
Sept. 14th, 1878. The first few months of his
mission were spent in Iowa and Nebraska; af-
terwards he went to Pennsylvania, in company
with Elder B. M. Young, where they labored
successfully. Elder Pierce baptized, during
his absence, 24 persons, re-baptized 1, blessed
9 children, held 75 meetings, and organized two
branches. In the former mission of Elder
Pierce he baptized quite a number, making al-
together 87 persons baptized, 21 re-baptized, 33
children blessed, 6 branches organized, and
over 200 public meetings. Elder Pierce re-
turned in good health and spirits.

	MISS MATTIE H. Paul, a young lady just
twenty-one years of age, who has been setting
type for the EXPONENT nearly five years,
started for Ann Arbor University Saturday,
Sept. 21st. Miss Paul has been qualifying her-
self for some time past in the study of medi-
cine and surgery, preparato[-]y to going East,
with the intention of perfecting herself in
these attainments. She has educated herself
by her own energy, industry and [-]conomy,
and earned money to defray her college ex-


penses; and her example of diligence and per-
severance is worthy of imitation. Miss Paul
is a young lady of exceptional ability, and de-
serves to succeed. We trust, though she has
gone out alone, she will win her way, and re-
turn thoroughly qualified to take an honorable
position as a lady physician. We were sorry
to part with her, as she was an efficient typo,
but she shall have our best wishes for the at-
tainment of a higher position.

	THERE WILL be a Territorial Fair held in
Salt Lake City under the auspices of the D.
A. and M. Society, in which the ladies are so-
licited to take part. The following ladies have
been appointed a committee to take charge of
the department of woman's work. Mrs. Pris-
cilla M. Staines, Mrs. Sarepta M. Heywood,
Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, Mrs. Abba Rumell,
Mrs. Ann Dewey. The ladies of the Relief
Societies are solicited to contribute silk and
other goods which are manufactured by them,
also all kinds of fancy articles, ornamental
needlework, hair-work, drawing, painting, or
any of these classes of work, as well as domes-
tic manufactures of all kinds. The ladies of
the Territory should take pains to aid in mak-
ing this Territorial Fair the best that has ever
been held, and will thus be conferring a public
good by contributing to encourage home pro-
ductions and home-talent. The Fair will com-
mence Oct. 2d, in the City Market.

	IN ACCORDANCE with a call made by the Peo-
ple's Central Committee for Salt Lake County,
a mass oonvention convened on Saturday, Sep-
tember 28th, at noon, in the Court House, for
the purpose of electing delegates to the Terri-
torial Convention. There was a fair represent-
ation of the people, though not nearly as many
as we expected to see. David O. Calder, Esq.,
rose and called the assembly to order, and the
business of organizing the meeting was effected
by electing Hon. John T. Caine, President; Bi-
shop John Henry Smith and Emmeline B.
Wells, Vice-Presidents; David McKenzie and
Hannah T. King, Secretaries. President Angus
M. Cannon offered the opening prayer. The
Chairman then read the call and declared the
meeting opened for business. The first busi-
ness transacted was the appointing of a com-
mittee to select delegates for the approval of
the convention. This committee consisted of
five gentlemen and two ladies, who withdrew
for consultation, having been instructed to
make the selection so as to equally represent all
parts of the county. A speech was called for
from C. W. Penrose, Esq., who responded
in a few concise remarks upon political
duties, the selecting of wise and judicious
men to office, the consistency of recognizing
women in politics, etc. Judge Snow was
called and made some remarks upon the rights
of citizens, duties of the people's delegate, the
total impropriety of Congress in seeking to con-
trol mind, conscience or religious principles.
The committee returned and reported the
names of the 18 delegates selected; and as we
have not room to publish the names, we will
state that the delegation consisted of 14 gentle-
men and four ladies. The secretary read the
names, and on motion they were sustained by
the vote of the convention. The chairman
then nominated nine alternates, among whom
only one lady's name appeared; these were
also sustained by vote. The president and
secretary were authorized to furnish the dele-
gates with credentials of election. C. W. Pen-
rose, Esq., then offered a "Preamble and Reso-
lution," which was read and adopted as the
sense of the convention. We regret we have
not space left to publish it, but express our
hearty recognition of its sentiments. A vote
of thanks was given to all the acting officers of
the convention, which adjourned sin[-] die.
Prayer by Prest. A. M. Cannon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.
DIED, at Fillmore City, Sept. 8th, 1878, Re-
becca Jane, beloved wife of Thomas E. King,
and daughter of Robert and Rebecca Murrey,
aged 37 years and 22 days.  She leaves a hus-
band, five children (the youngest four weeks
old), an aged mother and numerous friends to
mourn her absence.
Deceased was born Aug. 17, 1841, at Wood-
stock, Ulster Co., N. Y. Became a member of
the Brooklyn Branch of the Church at the ago
of fifteen.  Emigrated herself and mother to
Utah in I860, making a permanent home in
this city, where she has won the esteem and
affection of all who knew her; and by her su-
perior talents as teacher and writer, though
unassuming, has memorized her name in the
hearts of many never to be forgotten; many of
her excellent articles have enriched the papers
of the Mutual Improvement Association.  Three
weeks previous to her death, not feeling well
as usual, she wished the Elders to administer
to her; after the administration we left her
resting comfortably.  On returning she seemed
quite overcome, and said a messenger of the
Lord had talked with her and showed her
many things concerning this Gospel.  Her
happiness was unspeakable, and the testimony
she bore was that Plural Marriage and the
United Order were true, and her desire was to
live to carry those principles out to the very
letter; exhorted those present, as they valued
the truth and their honor, never to speak
against them.  The following day she told us
she could not live; called the family together,
giving instructions to her children, and dis-
tributing presents to each; blessing her little
children, she affectionately bade us goodby.
The vision of her mind was then opened, and
she was permitted to see and realize the beauty
and grandeur existing, beyond the vale, and
when she became sensible of her surroundings
again she shed tears of regret, for the idea of
coming back to dwell here was loath ome to
her. But by faith and careful nursing we were
permitted to keep her with us three weeks
longer, when she departed this life, realizing
the approach of death, though unable to talk
with us.

May angels guide thee with truth and love
To that peaceful home in the realms above;
Where loved ones are waiting, with outstretched hand,
To welcome thy coming to that beautiful land.

May thy spirit, freed from mortality,
Seek knowledge throughout eternity,
Till thy crown be studded with purest gems,
Far brighter than earthly diadems.
						D. K. O.

DIED, in the First Ward, Sept. 13th, 1878, of
consumption, Sarah Rachel, daughter of the
late Henry Smith and of Martha Smith, aged
20 years and 6 months.
Deceased was born at Human’s Park, South
Africa, and came to Utah in the year 1865.  For
nearly seven years she has been a Sunday
School teacher, was a regular member of the
choir, and Secretary of the Y. L. M. I. A, all
of which positions she faithfully filled, until
her illness prevented her from doing so, which
was a source of deep regret to her.  She was a
kind and loving daughter and sister, a true
and sincere friend, was beloved by all who
knew her, and mourned by a large circle of
relatives and friends; but while we deeply
mourn her absence, we feel that our loss is her
eternal gain.  Too pure for earth, she's gone to
Heaven.
One sweet flower has drooped and faded,
One dear form is laid at rest,
fair brow the grave has shaded,
But her soul is with the blest.
She has gone to heaven before us;
See, she turns and waves her hand,
Pointing to the glory o’er us,
In that holy, happier land.
Resolutions of Condolence, offered by the
Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion to the bereaved family of Sarah Rachel
Smith.
Whereas, He who doeth all things for the
best hath bereft us of our dearly beloved sister,
friend, and faithful Secretary, and we are de-
sirous of expressing our sincere affection, sor-
row and sympathy for the sorrowing mother,
brothers, sisters, and relatives who are bereft of
her presence for a short season,
Resolved, That it is but a just tribute to the
memory of the departed to say, that in regret-
ting her loss, we mourn for one who was over
an example of purity and goodness, worthy of
our emulation, and who has endeared herself
to us by her many Christian virtues and en-
dearing qualities.
Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with
the family of the deceased in their bereave-
ment, and commend them to the care and
mercy of Him who seeth and knoweth all
things, and whose hand we feel to acknowledge
in this their affliction.
 Resolved, That we forward to the family of
the departed the heartfelt testimonial of our
sorrow and sympathy for the loss of her whom
we loved.
SARAH A. GRAHAM, Pres't.
AMY H. ADAMS, Sec'y.
ALICE FLETCHER, Treas.

DIED, in the First Ward, S. L. City, July 3d,
1878, of inflammation of the bowels, Miriam
C. Hawkins, wife of Creighton Hawkins, and
daughter of the late Sisson A. Chase and of
of Miriam G. Chase.
Deceased was born March 3rd, 1849, in Potta-
watamie Co., Iowa; came to Utah in 1853.  She
was a faithful Latter-day Saint, and a Coun-
selor in the Y. L. M. I. A. of the First Ward,
who deeply reget her loss, and who feel that
she was in every way worthy of their respect
and esteem.  She leaves a husband and four
children with whom we all feel to sympathize
for the loss of so good a wife and mother.
“Thine own will miss thee as they onward tread,
In the rough path where thy dear feet hath led;
Friendship will miss thee, but another tie
Is formed to guide until we meet on high."

 DIED, at Mona, Juab Co., Aug. 11th, 1878, of
typhoid disentery, Samuel, the son of Mr.
and Mrs. Ostler, aged 5 months and 5 days.
 This dear one, our first-born, was called early
to the arms of Jesus, who gathers flow-
ers from every garden.  Jesus says, “Suffer lit-
tle children to come unto me, for of such is the
kingdom of heaven.” Children are an herit-
age from the Lord."
					ANNIE D. DAVIS.

 In the 13th Ward of this city, Sept. 25th,
1878, Miss Charlotta Elise Landgren, of typhus
fever, after a most severe illness of three weeks
Deceased was born in Sweden, June 14th, 1859,
and at the early age of 16 years left her parental
home and early associations to gather with
the Saints, arriving in the valley July, 23d;
1875, in C. G. Larsen’s company; and while
here had been earnestly laboring to save
money to send home  help her family towards
emigrating.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY QUARTERLY CON
			FERENCE.

	           SALT LAKE STAKE.

The Third Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society of this Stake was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Satur-
day, Sept. 21st, morning session commenc-
ing at 10 o'clock. Coun. E. S. Taylor pre-
sided, the President, Mrs. M. I. Horne,
being unavoidably absent. In the stand
were some of the most prominent ladies of
of this city, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D.
Young, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. S. M. Kim.
Mrs. S. M. Heywood, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff,
Mrs. E. Howard, and the Editor of WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT. On the platform around
the stand were the presidents of the vari-
ous branches of the Relief Society of Salt
Lake Co. After the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, the Secretary read the
minutes of the last Conference; then fol-
lowed the reports from the various branches
of the Stake, with very few exceptions.
	The 7th, 11th, and 21st Wards, Herriman,
South Cottonwood and West Jordan were
not reported. The reports were creditable,
showing the energy, enterprise and in-
creased interest on the part of the sisters,
in the duties and responsibilities resting
upon the women of Israel in this day. Af-
ter the reports had been read, Miss Snow
made a few remarks on woman's work and
the organizations for her special advance-
ment, and then the presidents of the dif-
ferent branches were called upon to give
verbal statements of the condition of the
Society in their respective localities. This
gave variety and interest, each speaker oc-
cupying only a few minutes. Meeting ad-
journed at 12 o'clock until 2 o'clock p. m.
	In the afternoon, Mrs. E. A. Whitney
was among the ladies in the stand. Mrs.
Whitney and Miss Snow are associated to-
gether in the minds of the Latter-day
Saints, from the early days of Kirtland,
and they are revered as pioneer women
who have ever been valiant in the cause of
truth, and their names will be held in hon-
orable remembrance for the many good
words and works which have brought joy
and comfort to the hearts of many thou-
sands of the Saints from time to time.
	Most of the afternoon was occupied by
the presidents in reporting verbally the
condition of the societies, after which Miss
Snow nominated Mrs. Mary P. Freeze as
Superintendent of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Salt Lake Co. Mrs. Freeze nomination
was unanimously sustained. Miss Snow
then proceeded to nominate for Primary As-
ciations in the 16th, 17th, and 18th Wards,
with the following ladies as officers: 16th
Ward, President, Mrs. M. J. Thompson;
Counselors, Mrs. Drucilla Parker and Mrs.
Maria Singleton. 17th Ward, President,
Mrs. E. Groesbeck; Counselors, Mrs. C. L.
Williams and Mrs. Sarah Burbage. 18th
Ward, President, Mrs. Mary Schettler;
Counselors, Miss Anna M. Duncan and Mrs.
Ann Hart. These nominations were sus-
tained by the vote of the ladies of the Con-
ference. The business of the Conference
being completed, Miss Snow arose with
Mrs. Whitney, and making a few explana-
tory remarks, announced that if the sisters
would unite their faith, Mrs. Whitney
would sing "A song of Zion," which she
did in a most melodious voice and impres-
sive manner, every heart seemingly in-
spired with the inspirational hymn. Mrs.
Taylor then moved the adjournment until
the Wednesday nearest the 21st, which will
occur on the 18th af December. The con-
gregation then arose to their feet and sang

[Column 2]
"The Spirit of God," and Mrs. Whitney
dismissed the meeting.


[Column 1]
For the EXPONENT.
REPORT OF TRIP NORTH.

	By special invitation from our sisters of
Hyrum to attend their Annual Meeting of
the Relief Society, Sister E. R. Snow and
I left home, August 6th, for that purpose.
We visited Mendon on our way, and at-
tended two meetings. Met with our faith-
ful sisters in Wellsville, and attended one
R. S. meeting, and two meetings of Y. M.
M. I. A.
	We reached Hyrum August 9, and spent
a pleasant time with our sisters in speaking
of the goodness of our Heavenly Father to
us His children. Sister Snow gave some
excellent counsel to the sisters, pertaining
to the order and government of Relief So-
cieties, which I hope they may profit by
and put in practice.
	We also visited Paradise, and were kindly
entertained by Bishop Smith and his estim-
able wife. Sister Snow organized the Y.
L. M. I. A., and we also attended a meet-
ing of the R. S. The sisters in both of the
last named places are striving to be self-
sustaining, by making all they can for home
wear.
	Sister Snow returned to Brigham City on
the 11th, and attended an interesting meet-
ing with the sisters on the 14th. They
are preparing themselves for raising silk;
the First Ward has nearly 5,000 mulberry
cuttings out, and the other three wards
have nearly as many more. They also
manufacture handsome artificial flowers.
It would be well for us if many more of
the settlements followed their example, at
least, from every county there should be
one or more sisters sent to learn flower-
making, straw-braiding, sewing and dye-
ing, making the hats and bonnets needed
for home wear; if they could not export
they would never need to import, and bless-
ings would attend our labors, and we would
be furnishing employment for the young.
	On the 15th and 16th we attended the sis-
ters' two days Quarterly Conference, Ogden.
We truly enjoyed a rich feast: the reports
read were very encouraging, Sister Richards
can surely rejoice over the result of her
labors and the prosperity of woman's work
in that part of the vineyard.
	Saturday, 17th, accompanied by Mrs. M.
I. Horne we were escorted by Sister White
and son to Morgan; we attended the two
days Quarterly Stake Conference also a
meeting held by Y. M. M. I. A.
	Monday, 18th, we visited Richville, West
Porterville and East Porterville, and met
with the sisters in each place. Sister Snow
organized the Y. L. M. I. A. in Richville,
and re-organized the Association in West
Porterville. 
	Tuesday, 19th, we met with our sisters
in Milton and Enterprise, and we found
the sisters, under the wise counsel given
them by Bishop J. K. Hall, trying to sus-
tain the name; here they braid and make
all the hats worn in the settlement. May
they be prospered in their every effort of
enterprise.
	Wednesday, 20th and 21st, attended two
meetings, one in North and one in South
Morgan Wards.
	Friday, 22d, we started for Croyden; al-
though it was raining and disagreeable, the
children of the settlement came some dis-
tance out to meet us, and cheered us by
their song of welcome. We were escorted
to Bro. Thackeray's by Bishop Hopkins and
many of the brethren and sisters who had

[Column 2]
come out with the children to meet us, one
brother carrying a banner with the inscrip-
tion, "Welcome to Croyden." Sister Snow
organized the young ladies at the evening
meeting; the afternoon meeting was a
general meeting and attended by brethren
and sisters, old and young.
	Saturday, 23d, we visited Henneferville-
attended meeting in the afternoon, and at
the request of Bishop Richens, we attend
ed meeting in the evening, and Sister Snow
assisted in re-organizing the Relief Society;
of Henneferville, also gave excellent in-
structions to the sisters, and encouraged
them to persevere in every good word and
work. Sister Horne explained the object
of our organizations, and the order and
government of Relief Societies.
	Sunday, 24th, we attend Sacrament meet-
ing at Echo. Found the Saints, although
few in number, doing their best to be one
both the brethren and sisters. In the eve-
ning we were invited, by Bishop Asper
and Counsel, to address the Saints. On
Monday we met with the sisters, and Miss
Snow and Mrs. Horne assisted in organiz-
ing a Relief Society. We were honored
with the presence of President Cluff and
family, Elder Alma Smith, and Sisters
Wilde, Reed, Robinson, and many others
from Coalville, also Bishop Richens and the
Choir of Henneferville.
	Tuesday we called on our friends at Coal-
ville, and attended meeting at 10 a. m.
Dined with many of the Saints at the resi-
dence of President Cluff. Although our
visit was short, we shall not soon forget the
enjoyable time we spent in Coalville; the
Spirit of God was beaming from every face,
and every one present could say it was good
to be there.
	We were delighted to be present at the
Morgan Co. Relief Society Stake Organization
with Mrs. Lydia Rich, President, Mrs.
Amanda Rollo and Jane Tanner, Counsel-
ors, Cordelia Smith, Secretary. Mrs. Sarah
A. Rawle, Superintendent of the Stake for
Y. L. M. I. A.
	Every settlement we visited the brethren
honored us with their presence; they left
their harvest fields and attended meeting,
sustaining and blessing us with their faith
and society. Elder W. G. Smith, President
Morgan Co. Stake, and wife accompanied
us to four settlements, Peterson being the
last, where we had a good meeting and an
enjoyable time with our friends.
	We thank the brethren for their confi-
dence and respect, and for every kindness
shown us on our tour, and our sisters for
their entertainment and kind attention.
ELIZABETH DAVIS.


THE YELLOW Fever still continues its
devastating work in the "sunny South,"
yet there is a prospect that after the frost
sets in it may abate; but now a still more
appaling feature of suffering has become
known in Brazil, a famine, which, as writ-
ten up by the correspondent of the New
York Evening Post, at Rio Janiero, is too
horrible for contemplation, and it is impos-
sible to calculate the fearful consequences.
That country has been without water since
July, 1876.
LONGFELLOW, THE poet, has five chil-
dren--Onslow, the eldest, is married and a
man of business in Boston; Ernest is a
rising young painter, studying abroad;
Alice, the eldest of the girls, is a pleasing
writer, unmarried; Edith is a golden-haired
young lady of twenty-five, who has just
married the third son of Richard H. Dana,
Jr.; and Anna is said to be literary in her
inclinations.--EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		71


A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

CONTINUED.
 My husband traveled with Joseph the
Prophet, through many of the Eastern cit-
ies, bearing their testimony and collecting
means towards building a Temple in Kirt-
land, and also to purchase lands in Missouri.
During this journey the Prophet Joseph of-
ten prophesied of the destruction that
would come upon the cities of the Eastern
States, and especially New York, that in
that city there would not be left a vestige
of its grandeur. That wars would soon
commence in our own land, which last has
since transpired; he said to my husband if
they reject us they shall have our testi-
mony, for we will write it and leave it up-
on their door-steps and window-sills; he
prophesied of the desolation by fire, by
storms, by pestilence and by earth-quakes.
After their return from the East they trav-
eled together up to Missouri, and while up-
on this journey my husband had his ankle
broken, and through the power of the ad-
ministration of the Gospel-ordinance and
faith, he was relieved from all pain; but by
Joseph's counsel returned home. During
all these absences and separations from my
husband I never felt to murmur or com-
plain in the least, and although heretofore
my husband's time had been devoted to
the business he was engaged in, and his
hours of leisure to his family in private
yet I was  more than satisfied to have
him give all, time, talents and ability
into the service of the Kingdom of God;
and the change in our circumstances and
associations which were consequent upon
our embracing the Gospel, never caused me
a moment's sorrow. I looked upon it as a
real pleasure to give all for the sake of my
faith in the religion of Jesus, considering
all as naught in comparison with the exam-
ple of our blessed Savior. We had a very
fine orchard and garden, all planned and
arranged according to our own taste and
skill, among other fruits we had a very
great quantity of the red currants, from
which we had ourselves manufactured wine
of a very superior flavor and quality, al-
though purely domestic, or home-made,
this wine we had appropriated for the sac-
rament, and was the first wine used by our
people for that purpose. It was about this
time my husband was ordained a Bishop by
revelation and commandment from God.
He was willing to accept the position know-
ing, as he did, that Joseph was a true
prophet, and that the only sure way to bo-
tain blessings and promises was through 
obedience; yet he felt that it would require
a vast amount of patience, of perseverance,
and of wisdom to magnify his calling.
We had always been in the habit of enter-
taining our friends and acquaintances gen-
erously and hospitably, but after we re-
ceived the Gosepl we did not feel like using
our means and time in a way that would
only benefit those who had an abundance
of this world's means. According to our
Savior's pattern and agreeably to the Proph-
et Joseph's and our own ideas of true char-
ity and disinterested benevolence, we de-
termined to make a Feast for the Poor,
such as we knew could not return the same
to us; the lame, the halt, the deaf, the
blind, the aged and infirm.
To be continued.


Now brown October comes, with russet
face and crown of autumn leaves, and va-
riegated garments rustling in the wind,
and keeping time to music of the forest
boughs.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
			WOMAN'S LOVE. 

	How great a woman's love! How un-
bounded and truly self-sacrificing! How
noble, pure, refining and elevating! It is
stamped in her every feature. Every
movement, look, word, or action, portrays
the great love she bears humanity. It is
her greatest charm, her grandest endow-
ment. With it she governs the world. By
this great gift she refines and elevates all
mankind; all succumb to it, and love and
praise the possessor. Woman can never
sufficiently thank God for this great bless-
ing, nor fully realize nor admire the great
wisdom and beauty He exercised in be-
stowing it on her. Without the pure love
possessed by woman, what could she have
accomplished? How much influence would
she have held over the world? What
pleasure could have been felt in her pres-
ence? Or what effort would she have made
to gain the love and approbation of God?
None whatever; her life would have been
devoid of pleasure and usefulness—her
creation would have been almost in vain.
	Incaculable good has been brought about
by the ties of true friendship; sad hearts
have been cheered, oftentimes, by the sym-
pathy of a true friend. In every time,
Christian heart-friendship is prized and
cherished, and all those who have ever felt
its blessed influence, can not choose but
cultivate it. Life, to me, would be bereft
of its greatest charm, if the effect of friend-
ship were not felt. By a law of our being
we are compelled to love one another, but,
through carelessness and not adhering to
the laws of nature, we have grown to disre-
gard the importance of this great relation-
ship, and allowed ourselves to become our
first care and claim our greatest attention.
But this should not be. We must cultivate
love for our fellow-creatures, and strive to
more strictly keep God's commandments,
and "love our neighbor as ourself." With-
out friendship there is no union, and with-
out union there is no strength. We are all
sisters in feelings and objects, and now all
we require is to unite, and merge our ef-
forts into one community of kindred souls.
	O how great should be our struggle to
gain such a consummation!
	In life there is nothing sweeter than the
pure and confiding love which woman gives
to her husband. No ties on earth are so
sacred and binding as those of virtuous
wedlock. True love and chastity between
husband and wife are indispensable to hap-
piness; where this does not exist, there is
no true refining influence, no joy. The
Spirit of God is far away, and all is deso-
late and degrading. Oh, let us carefully
guard ourselves, that we may not be en-
gulfed in that fearful abyss. Let us keep
both body and soul perfectly pure and holy,
and plead constantly with God to keep us
from all wrong thoughts and actions.
	The love which God has given to moth-
ers, for their children, outreaches all other
feelings. It springs spontaneously from the
heart. It is a natural, pleasant duty, which
none but a mother can perform. No pas-
sion is so pure, so free from guile, so tender,
devoted and enduring as a mother's love.
None but a mother can experience that
heartfelt joy, on greeting a child just re-
turned from a long absence, or grieve over
its sorrow, as she can. God has made this
a law of our being, and no one can become
a mother without feeling maternal yearn-
ings; therefore, no one can fill her place,
either in their affection for their offspring,
or their influence over them. O mother,
what a great responsibility rests upon you!

[Column 2]
The characters of your children are in your
hands; to a great extent their destiny is
under your control; the plastic clay is in
your arms; oh, be careful in molding them,
and wisely use your power.
	Especially must mothers mold or fashion
the MORAL characters of their children;
they are the main educators, and without
home-education all other is useless; unless
they learn good manners at home, they will
be coarse and vulgar through life. Unless
they are taught refinement of sentiment
and delicacy of thought and feeling at
home, they will never possess it in any de-
gree. Their intellects mest receive an
early maternal direction, and their minds
be developed and drawn out, and a thirst-
ing after knowledge exercised by their
mothers. You plead a want of time. But
should you not attend first to that which is
most important! And what other duty has
God given you that is as momentous as
this? O think of It! No mortals fill any
relation to be compared with yours. The
vice or virtue of your children depend most
on the training they receive at your hands.
It should awaken the deepest emotions of
your hearts, and cause you to awaken from
your lethargy, and put forth every energy
of which you are capable. Pray earnestly
and constantly for wisdom, for grace, to
guide your children in paths of nobleness
and purity. Educate yourselves, that you
may be able to better educate your chil-
dren. Show them by practice that what
you teach them by precept is correct. Oh,
when I see so many of our youth growing
up in ignorance—when I think how easily
so many are carried away willing captives
by corrupt and degraded men, I tremble for
the future. But if the mothers would be
more careful, and teach their daughters in
their youth to guard against all such evils,
and store their minds with pure and true
knowledge, this would be remedied to a
great extent, and much good would be
done. I know that a mother's love is not
deficient in the quantity, she loves her child
enough, but not aright. But mothers must
learn to love their children intellectually
and morally. Love them, but guide their
maternal yearnings by enlightened intellect,
and govern it by high moral feeling.
	I would say to the unmarried, don't spend
your time in arraying yourself for the con-
vivial ball, or party, or changing the fashion
for your n[-]w dresses; you [-]ave other more
noble and higher duties to perform. Pre-
pare yourselves to become wives and moth-
ers. Study diligently, and embrace every
opportunity to improve your minds and
lend you new grace and wisdom. Culti-
vate in your hearts a love for everything
that is refining and beneficial, and never
think you are too good to assist your mother
in any household duty, or honorable labor
of any kind. Lay aside all affectation, and
adorn yourselves becomingly in nature's
loveliness. Be yourselves as God created
you, and you will be most happy and lova-
ble. O then, let us strive, in all our walks
through life, to be worthy of the great,
all-controlling love we receive from God.
It is the most blessed gift He can bestow.
Let us carefully nourish love for all God's
children, and constantly seek the benign
influence it exerts. Without it we would
become low and degraded, and lose all de-
sire for intelligence and purity. But the
more we possess, the greater will be our in-
fluence, the more glorious our achieve-
ments, the purer our lives, and the nearer
we shall be to God.
	It is the fulfillment of the law.
							C. E. [-].


72		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOW THE WORLD MOVES.

	Lydia Marla Child, one of our ablest lit-
erary women, relates the following sugges-
tive experience:
	"When I was a young girl, the aged Han-
nah Adams was pointed out as a great curi-
osity, because she had written a short his-
tory of the Jews. Innumerable stories
were told how she had unsexed herself by
her learning. She was said not only to be
unconscious of a hole in her stocking, but
to be absolutely unable to recognize her
own face in a glass; and if that was not
being unfortunate, pray tell me what could
be. When I published my first book, I
was gravely warned by some of my female
acquaintances that no woman could expect
to be regarded as a lady after she had
written a book."
	In those days, the woman who put her
thoughts and opinions into print was re-
garded very—and the woman who wants
to help govern herself is now—a monstrosi-
ty out of her sphere.—Ex.


BANGED HAIR AND CLOSE DRESSES.

[Correspondence of the Woman's Journal.]

	Every day I meet in the streets of Boston
young ladies, who would otherwise look in-
telligent, reduced to the appearance of
idiocy by a peculiar method of combing
the hair down over the forehead. The
hideous deformity is evidently copied from
the patients of lunatic asylums and schools
for the feeble-minded. The effect is shock-
ing. Although not fastidious, I shrink
from these ladies as children shrink from a
hideous mask. It is a protest against being
considered strong-minded that the young
women thus assume the garb of idiocy. I
am told that a young lady thus degraded is
said to have her hair "banged." But it
seems to me that her sanity must be badly
banged to thus deform herself.
	The present hot weather is made more
intolerable by the spectacle of women with
dresses which cling to their forms with a
closeness positively indelicate — dresses
drawn back by some strange attachment
behind which fetters every movement.  If
the "banged" young woman has made my
blood run cold, the pulled-back lady throws
me into a profuse perspiration out of sym-
pathy with her self-inflicted martyrdom.
Will the ladies of the New England wo-
man's club kindly inform me why women
thus make guys of themselves?


[Column 1]
New Goods for the Fall and Winter 1878,

AN Immense Stock of those cheap and durable white
and red, twilled and plain FLANNELS,
just recieved from the Provo Mills. Also Dress Flannels,
Waterproofs, Linseys, Blankets, Jeans, Yarns, Cloths,
Double, Single and Shoulder Shawls, Trunks, Brooms,
Tinware, Shoes, Dixie Cotton Batting, and other goods,
at the Commission House.
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.
Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saler[-]om to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

[Column 2]
The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
at
TEASDEL'S

MRS. MUSSER
Will be pleased to see her friends at her
MILLINERY and NOTION STORE
South of the Old Constitution Buildings,
East Temple Street.
	Professor Bell's Telephone and Professor Edison's
Electric Pen, for multiplying letters and all kinds of
blanks are on exhibition. No charge for explaining
their uses.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
Special attention given to Obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between South
and 1st South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Prushes. Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

[Column 3]
ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards. & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-operative Store.
	Residence six blocks cast of Post Office, south side of
street
	Special study has been given to Obsterics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASLS of the EYE AND EAR.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

DRIED APRICOTS.

THE HIGHEST MARKET PRICE
PAID AT
TEASDEL'S.
	Delivery Wagons will call, by leaving the Address
at Store.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

