VOL. 7.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEB. 15, 1879		No. 18.


[For the EXPONENT.
IN THE SHADOWS.

Alone I sit, and everywhere
	The shadows darkly lay;
Companions of the heart's sad mood,
	O send them not away.

The sun may shine to-morrow morn,
	And birds sing from each tree;
And to my soul there may be born.
	A brighter light for me.

<soat .bace="" )="" islfvhctate3="" thyeunshlae="" ad="" ihoiyo="" --="" u="" o.fl="" othbsuritoerbhbtbofiriirhtv="" ‘i="" &="" the="" richest="" music="" that="" we="" hear'"="" u.="" “‘ftiiwwmtis'-="" ,-;yiw="" lu="" 4nuoa-inaffdfl6vwwitrmiuvt’earj="" w="" i="" oil="" i.="" oi="" ik="" oufcmtfc&r;'rfmcrtjvsi&ul;<ma an="" iio="" bobvx.="" .a.ia'milbifajtiiioiocqisit,l="" bl9d="" ,tnoi="" oiodi="" i.i="" bj.'!0,tphi®9afi.“#yfui,‘i="" oi="" biik-jd="" biwoii="" oiolfcffrad="" eton="" forwdafifmil&tsoorf)="" 51b="" <j="" ebant="" a="" because="" i="" adjlnxjoopvien"‘i="" -ot="" jaoj="" thuflorjtiajhgwlldornesa-,="" jj,="" viiflbfev..l="" lpnijot:ftojorrpiubre6’ftwis="" otlir="" oiiimi?ha5??9tfcda="" .="" ;="" s="" tr.orlt="" "="">It yet to-night my heart is loth
	The light of day to wear;
God gives the sun and darkness both
	That earth may bloom and bear.

It takes the sunshine and the shower
	To bring the rose to light;
And did the storm-cloud never lower,
	The sun were not so bright.

The richest music that we hear,
	Is always sadly sweet;
And sorrows bring us very near
	Our Father's mercy seat.

He gave the shadows and the light,
	For me the shadows fall;
And as I sit along to-night,
	I love them, one and all.

Nor do I long for sunshine blest
	Because I am in gloom;
The flower in the wilderness,
	That struggles up to bloom,

Lon[-]s not the more for heaven's rays
	Than I for joy and love.
Yet left it is, to spend its days
	With shadows all above.

And grows so frail amid the shade,
	Should sunbeams warm it o'er
'Twould sink from sight, as if afraid,
	And bless the earth no more.

And there are human flowers that bloom
	In life's dark, dreary way
Alone, they warm the very gloom,
	While on the earth they stay,

4th Ward, S. L. City.	MARY WRAY.


[Column 1]
A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

CONTINUED.

	The persecutions brought upon our peo-
ple in Nauvoo and other places adjacent, by
the wicked misrepresentations of such men
as Dr. Bennett, William and Wilson Law,
and others who had been members of our
Church, increased rapidly. Every now and
then Joseph Smith was arraigned before
the magistrates on some pretext or other,
and the Saints were threatened with mobs,
and they felt there was no security for them
because of their betrayal by designing and
treacherous men.
	In January, 1844, my youngest daughter
was born. She was the first child born heir
to the Holy Priesthood and in the New and
Everlasting Covenant in this dispensation.
I felt she was doubly a child of promise,
not only through the priesthood, but through
Joseph's promise to me when I gave him
my eldest daughter to wife. He prophe-
sied to me that I should have another
daughter, who would be a strength and sup-
port to me to soothe my declining years;
and in this daughter have these words been
verified. My health was very poor, but I
remained strong in the faith of the Gospel,
and full of courage to persevere in the lat-
ter-day work. My two youngest children
were frail little tender blossoms and re-
quired the most constant care.

[Column 2]
	During the ensuing summer a fearful and
continuous storm of persecution raged, un-
til it led to the massacre of Joseph and Hy-
rum Smith: and John Taylor, who, although
pierced with bullets until his life scarce
hung by a single thread, afterwards recov-
ered. After this horrible tragedy, the peo-
ple sorrowed and mourned for their Patri-
arch and Prophet. Indeed, the terrible
grief and consternation which were the re-
sult of the untimely death of these noble
men was beyond description.
	The Gentiles, our opposers, thought they
had destroyed our religion, overthrown our
cause, and destroyed the influence of our
people, and actually had accomplished all
that was necessary to do away with Mor-
monism.
	But God's work cannot be thus ignored;
another prophet, Brigham Young, was
raised up to succeed Joseph, and the work
rolled on. We were not allowed, however,
to rest in peace; those who had apostatized
from us and were filled with a spirit of re-
bellion against the work sought by all their
power and influence to stir up the authori-
ties of government in the State of Illinois,
and to drive us from the bounds of civiliza-
tion. At this time the people were ener-
getically at work upon the Temple, and
President Brigham Young and his brethren
of the Quorum of the Twelve, with the
Bishops and all the leading men, were
pushing everything forward towards com-
pleting the Temple, in order to obtain cer-
tain blessings and confirmations that had
been promised to the Saints when the
Temple should be so far finished as to ena-
ble them to work in it. The people were
most of them poor, and they denied them-
selves every comfort they possibly could to 
assist, in finishing the Lord's house. In
the latter part of the fall of 1845 we com-
menced work in the Temple, and then I
gave myself, my time and attention to that
mission. I worked in the Temple every
day without cessation until it was closed.
	We were making preparations to leave
Nauvoo and go into the wilderness. I had
a large family, and my household cares and
my many other duties were indeed arduous;
I worked constantly day and night, scarcely
sleeping at all, so great was my anxiety to
accomplish all that was necessary and go
with the first company who left in Febru-
ary, 1846, crossing the Mississippi river
on the ice.

To be continued.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	WOMAN SUFFRAGE has been reconsidered
and voted down in the Constitutional Con-
vention of California.
	TESTIMONIES FROM Wyoming, in regard
to the question of the good effects of wo-
man suffrage, are to be published in pam-
phlet form; price, $1.00 per hundred copies.
	JOHN A. LOGAN'S election to the U. S.
Senate by the Illinois Legislature is said to
have been largely effected through the
electioneering talent of his wife. It is said
"she has more than once in difficult circum-
stances turned the scale in her husband's
favor."


MISS ANNA E. Dickinson has written for
Mr. John McCullough a play called "Aure-
lian," which that actor is to bring out next
April, with himself in the title role. Miss
Dickinson is to play with him, taking the
first female part of Queen Zenobia. The
scenes of the play are laid in Rome and
Palmyra, and the work is said to be ex-
tremly ideal, and yet full of human inter-
est.—Ex.


[For the EXPONENT.
		GOD'S LAW VS. MAN'S LAW.

	I have been thinking of the vast amount
of testimony we and the world have of the
truth of the Latter-day work. Is there
any possibility of our being mistaken?
Even the Pyramids are confirming the
truth. The United States are testifying to
the truth of this work; also the sea, plagues,
war, famine and fire are uttering their ter-
rible voices in confirmation of the truth.
Our Elders went, a small and feeble band,
to declare that an angel from on high had
come and restored the Gospel to the earth
as anciently! also that these angels ushered
in a gathering dispensation, to gather to-
gether those who would believe them, to a
place where they could learn of the ways
of the Lord. All was peace then. They
said that after them should come the testi-
mony of fire and of the sword, of thunder
and lightning, of the sea heaving itself be-
yond its bounds, plagues, famine, persecu-
tion and unjust legislation, not only against
this people, but against one another—that
the strong should oppress the weak, that
the floodgates of religious persecution
should be lifted by the decision of unjust
judges, first to crush this people, then to
crush one another; that it should never
cease, till its fearful waves had rushed over
the whole land; until every man's hand
should be raised against his neighbor,
father against son, son against father, mother
against daughter, daughter against mother.
	I bear my testimony that I heard the
Elders declare that the time would come
when the highest judiciary power in the
land would decide unjustly against this
people. That was thirty years since. Has
that time arrived, or is it yet in the future?
Judge ye whom it may concern. Is it just
to dishonor men, women and children for
their religious opinion? We know that
God has revealed from the heavens the
principles of everlasting salvation, and fear-
ing God rather than men have obeyed him;
knowing that He will require at our hands
obedience to His will, shall we be obedient
to Him rather than man's command? Yes,
decidedly yes. The past is the chapter
read, the future we can read just as plain.
We know that offences must come, but woe
unto them by whom they come; God will
not always be mocked. Let us be faithful,
stand firm, fear nothing man may do, for
he can do nothing but that which he is
permitted. All the prophecies must be
fulfilled. Let us be united; there is more
to fear from ourselves than all the world
besides. Let us remember Daniel and his
victory, and rejoice when all men speak
evil falsely against us for Christ's sake.
								MARY.
	Grantsville, Feb. 6, 1879.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	Statistical Report of  Salt Lake Stake Re-
lief Society for year ending December,
1878.
Teachers...............................................    374
Total officers, teachers and members...1,737
Meeting held.........................................   442
Average attendance..............................    518
Church papers reported........................      87
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.....................    261
On hand at date of last report, cash $ 336  95
Property...........................................  9218 88
Receipts for year.............................  1501 88
Disbursed                 Cash                    Property
To poor..........................$852 20....................$1939 81
Emigration..................... 237 50
Temple..........................  732 05.....................   167 93
Home Industries...........    57 90
Books...........................  102 85.....................    538 83
Building.......................  550.90
Indians.........................             .....................     175 30
Missionary................... 150 25
On hand....................... 547 95......................   7515 27
2486 bushels of wheat stored, and cash on
hand to purchase wheat.................$358 00
Through misunderstanding some of the
secretaries sent in Quarterly instead of
Yearly reports, which quarterlies are not
included in the above, except the wheat,
which is in full.
It would be exceedingly commendable if
the secretaries in the different wards in
the Stake would procure for their use the
printed blanks, that are for sale at the EX-
PONENT Office, and pay strict attention to
filling in the spaces properly.  The manner
in which the reports are sent in now causes
it to be utterly impossible for the Stake
Secretary to make up her report so as to be
satisfactorily presented to the Quarterly
Conference.
ELIZABETH HOWARD, Sec'y.


EVANSTON, WYOMING, Jan. 24, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Evanston Ward of the Summit Stake
was visited by Sisters E. R. Snow and E.
Davis on Nov. 14th, 1878, and under their
auspices our worthy Bishop, Wm. G. Burton,
organized a Relief Society, with the fol-
lowing officers:

	Hannah Burton, President.
	Amelia Cashmore,	} Counselors.
	Mary Whittle,		}
	Sarah Maud Burton, Secretary.
	Hattie Huff, Treasurer.

	Also four teachers, with a roll of thirty-
two officers and members.
	Sister Snow imparted to the sisters im-
portant counsel for their guidance. The
visit of Sisters Snow and Davis will be long
remembered by the sisters of this ward as
a time of refreshing to their spirits, by the
rich outpouring of the Spirit of our holy
religion, and since which time the sisters
of the ward have held weekly meetings for
general purposes, and also in visiting the
sick, especially in looking after our now de-
parted sister, Hannah Carpenter, the notice
of whose demise has been published in the
"Deseret News." She had been confined
to her bed for many weary months, but she
is now gone to rest to await the trump of
the angel of the resurrection. Her funeral
was attended by about the largest concourse
of people in Evanston. Our own meeting
house being too small, the Rev. Mr. Arnold
of the Presbyterian Church kindly loaned
his church for the funeral service, at which
a very impressive discourse was delivered


by our worthy Bishop and very appropriate
hymns sung by the ward choir. A deep
solemnity rested upon the assembly through-
out. Her remains were followed to the
grave by sixteen sleighs.
	The EXPONENT is always acceptable and
read with great interest by the sisters.
May the Lord our God bless its editor and
contributors. I remain your sister in the
Gospel of peace.
	SARAH M. BURTON, Secretary.


CORRESPONDENCE.
WOODRUFF, ARIZONA, Dec. 28, 1878.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
Dear Sister--It is with pleasure that I
again have the privilege of addressing a
few lines to my dear old friend, Editor of
EXPONENT. I appreciate the privilege of
corresponding more than ever, because I
have not been able to write in consequence
of having had sore eyes since we stopped
traveling, which is about three months.  I
have not seen a No. of the EXPONENT later
than July.  I should have written for it to
be sent here on our arrival, but not being
permanently located, and no regular mail
to this place, I have waited until the pre-
sent, hoping to gain a knowledge of the 
country and the circumstances controlling
the organizing of settlements; and having
remained here for three months on the pub-
lic road running through the settlements
on Little Colorado, leading from Camp
Apache to Prescott, the Capital, as there are
a great many enterprising gentlemen look-
ing after the development of this country,
I have had the opportunity of hearing the
opinions of a good many, which have been
favorable, now I feel willing to give mine.
	Arizona is a better country than I expect-
ed to find, and I believe it to be the best
that the Mormons have ever settled since
they were driven from their homes in Mis-
souri.  Notwithstanding the country is
wild and romantic, there is a sacred, peace-
ful influence brooding over this land, which
betokens the guardianship of holy angels,
and the many ancient relics that cover the
land give evidence that a mighty nation
once dwelt here; and that this land has
been held in reserve for the Saints of the
Most High is a consolation to those who
have left their beautiful homes and friends
to build up the waste places of Zion; for
everywhere that the Eternal Priesthood has
bowed the knee and left their footprints
upon this soil the earth gives evidence of
the blessing of redemption sealed upon it,
by an increase of water and vegetation,
which will continue to increase until it will
not only abound with flocks and herds; but
become a fruitful field, abounding also with
the cities af the Saints, where the voice of
thanksgiving and melody shall be heard,
and the earth thall be made glad and re-
echo the praises of God because of the in-
habitants that dwell upon her, even as the
ancient Prophet has said.
	An additional proof of the blessing at-
tending the settling of this country is the
good feeling and welcome that our people
meet with  from the Indians and Mexicans;
our children will [-]arn their language and
teach them the plan of salvation.  We
have free schools, and they seem inclined
to learn the English language.  Men hold-
ing responsible positions in the Territory,
Gov. Freemont and Members of the Legis-
lature, have expressed themselves favora-
ble to our people colonizing the country and
organizing counties and electing their own
officers.  The citizens have sent petitions
for mail routes and Post Offices to be estab-
lished throughout the settlements.  Bishop
Tinney, visiting Prescott recently, said he
never was treated with a more hearty wel-
come to the hospitality of the Governor
and Mr. Beach, Editor of the "Arizona
Miner," who has visited the Mormon set-
tlements, and whose acquaintance we made
on our arrival at Sunset.--He also expressed
himself favorably.
	Now I know you would like to hear some-
thing concerning the United Order in those
settlements at Sunset and Brigham City.
They all eat at the big table.  We stopped
there two days, and gladly accepted an in-
vitation to dine with them; we found every-
thing orderly and cleanly and plenty to
eat. Through the courtesy of Bro. James
Woods, we visited the milk house, which
was superior to any I ever saw, and also
the kitchen and bakery, which were ar-
ranged so that three or four persons could
do the cooking for a hundred, or more, per-
sons.  Those who do not wish to unite in
this order of things have the privilege of
co-operating or settling where they choose;
this will enable them to locate the land
much faster.
	We have received several copies of the
"Deseret News," containing an account of
Apostles Pratt and Smith's visit to the
East, which was very interesting; and also
an account of the Mass Meeting of the sis-
ters, held in the Theatre, which caused our
hearts to rejoice exceedingly, and say there
are thousands of noble women whose hearts
beat responsive to the defense made by
their sisters on that occasion.
	Jan. 4th.  All well.  We have Sunday
School and meeting in all the settlements.
There are about a hundred families who
have come in this winter all well, and have
had a successful journey.
With love to the brethren and sisters I
remain devoted to the kingdom.
W. EAST.
WOODRUFF, RICH CO., Feb. 3, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
* * *  We are a small settle-
ment, yet we are trying to do what we can
toward building up the kingdom of God on
the earth, realizing that the time is short.
How little time have we, as Latter-day
Saints to spend in pride and folly.  It seems
to me, when I think of the destitution
there is among the Saints of the Old World,
that we as Saints should put aside some of
our unneccesary expenditures, and see
how much might be saved towards gather-
ing the poor.  It may look to us a small
matter, but I think it would amount to
quite a sum in the course of a year.  Let
us, as Daughters of Zion, awaken to the
duties that rest upon us, and perform these
obligations faithfully in the fear of the
Lord. Praying for the welfare of the
daugthers of Zion, I remain your sister in
the covenant of truth,
LORINDA K. ALLEN.


REFINEMENT.—Refinement is not fas-
tidiousness. It is always allied to simplic-
ity and a judicious and tasteful employ-
ment of the means for good and happiness
which it has at command. It seeks to di-
vest itself of superfluities, and aspires con-
tinually to the utmost possible purity.
	MOTHERHOOD will be woman's crowning
joy, her life's purest enthusiasm and most
perfect expression.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		193﻿


DON'T MARRY A MAN TO SAVE HIM.

BY SARAH E. BOLTON.

A cry comes over from Oregon
For a car-load—not of women wan,
But of women of brain and blood, and ton?—
	"Come, marry these men to save them!

"There are thousands here in these haunts of sin
Spending their money in game and gin,
Corrupt without and corrupt within;
	Come, marry these men to save them!

"They have been somebody's pride and joy!
Somebody's petted and pampered boy;
Spoiled for lack of a maiden coy;
	Come, marry these men to save them!

"You must be healthy, and pure, and strong,
Alike to breast and bear the wrong,
Willing to carry a burden along;
	Come, marry these men to save them!

"You must be leader, but always seem
To be gentle and helpless as love's young dream,
And leaned upon when you seem to lean;
	Come, marry these men to save them!

"You must be cleanly, and kind, and sweet,
Making a path for their godless feet
Up to the grace of the mercy-seat;
	Come, marry these men to save them!

Oh! woman, you're sold at a fearful price
If you wed your virtue to a chance device,
And trust your soul to that of vice:
	Don't marry a man to save him!

A life that is pure needs a pure one in turn,
A being to honor and not to spurn,
An equal love, that shall constant burn;
	Don't marry a man to save him!

A woman's life is a precious thing,
Her love is a rose unwithering;
Would you bury it deep in its early spring?
	Don't marry a man to save them!

You can pray for his soul from morn till eve,
You can win the angels to bring reprieve
To his sin-bound heart, but you'll always grieve
	If you marry a man to save him.

God gives to Woman a right to press
Her claim to a man's best manliness;
A woman gives all, should a man give less?
	Don't marry a man to save him!

	—Woman's Journal.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
			PRACTICAL HINTS.

	We, the veritable women of Utah, are
more or less agitated and incensed with
the movements of the Anti-Polygamic wo-
men of our city, who are seeking to arouse
public sentiment against us to deprive us
of our rights and privileges as American
citizens; who are forming themselves into
societies to strengthen their forces that they
may better accomplish our ruin. And could
we feel otherwise, we would be unworthy
the name of wife, or mother; but as it is,
we feel the utmost contempt for those med-
dlesome friends who are taking such active
measures to regulate our family affairs.
	And while we are justly indignant with
them let us make room in our minds for
another subject—the "Word of Wisdom."
I wish it might be sent to every settlement
in the Territory, with instructions for the
Saints to write and talk about it in their
meetings and in all their social gatherings.
	Do we as a people realize the importance
of those precious words? Do we accept
them as the word of God unto us? Are
they observed by this people as they should
be? How few Latter-day Saints there are
in this Territory at the present time who
abstain from tea and coffee; and the use of
whiskey and tobacco is increasing, and how
few consider it worth while to even give a
thought to these and other unwholesome
practices. Is it not high time to wake up
and open our eyes and look about us? If
the Lord had no purpose in giving the
Word of Wisdom, why did He take the

[Column 2]
trouble to give it? And if it is not neces-
sary for us to observe it, why was it given
at all? Do we not know that all stimulants
taken into the stomach are unhealthy? We
see our little ones swept from our midst,
one here, two there; and four and five of
one family stricken down with this dread-
ful diphtheria. Do we realize that there is
a cause, and also a remedy for these things?
Does not common sense tell us that their
little bodies are charged with impurities,
and their blood is thoroughly impregnated
with poison inherited from their parents.
It affects the little ones more readily than
it does the older ones. I do not address
the ladies because I think the remedy is
altogether with them. No! the gentlemen
are more culpable; they take far more poi-
son into their systems than the women do.
I have heard of one or two women who
drink wine, etc., to excess, and it may be
that a few old ladies smoke their pipes; but
as for chewing tobacco (the worst poison of
all) there are no women who indulge in the
filthy practice.
	Of course it is not our province to teach
the Elders their duty, but we can intercede
with them; but if they will persist in pol-
luting their bodies with these filthy poisons,
the Lord may deal with them in a way they
think not of.
	When the word was sent forth to the sis-
ters to store up wheat they went to work
with a will, buying and gleaning, until
nearly every settlement in the Territory
has more or less grain garnered up. But,
sisters, what good will the wheat do you,
if your homes are left desolate, your chil-
dren stricken down with disease? Can you
not see that something must be done to
promote health and life, something to regen-
erate the human family? Let us begin by
observing the Word of Wisdom; there is a
promise in that we can claim.
	The evils that have been done cannot be
altogether undone, but those who may yet
be fathers and mothers should think of
these things, and not contract unhealthy
and degenerating habits, but observe the
laws of life and health, keeping their sys-
tems pure, that the human family may be
healthier and wiser. Dr. Foot says "Habit
is second nature;" so says the proverbialist.
How important then it is that we should
form such habits as will tend to develop
health and mental vigor, instead of physi-
cal decay and mental imbecility. He also
says: "If half the time and money expend-
ed to recover health had been timely de-
voted to the preservation of health, life
would be a more enjoyable and less expen-
sive luxury."
	We are a people that believe in revela-
tion, but how little heed do we give to its
teachings. Sisters, it is time to rouse your-
selves and see what can be done to remove
the causes of ill health. There are manyother things besides those I have mentioned
that should be dispensed with; we need a
reformation in dress from head to foot. We
can hear good lectures, and read good books,
and receive the word of the Lord and the
teachings of wise men, yet with all this
knowledge that we receive how slow we
are to listen to reason. We would rather
suffer with ill health all our lives, and see
our little ones pass away from us one by one,
than to part with our darling corsets and
our tight, thin shoes, which two articles
cause more sickness and death than any
other portion of woman's dress. The hard-
est thing for us to do is to face public opin-
ion, as far as regards dress. We care too
much for what people may think of our
looks. Let the sisters one and all take the
advice of Dr. Fairchild and cremate every

[Column 3]
corset in the Territory, and make room for
a healthy circulation of the blood; or, in
other words, make room for life to dwell in
our bodies. If we feel indifferent about
our own health and life, let us have some
consideration for our posterity. A great
responsibility rests upon this people in re-
gard to future generations, and unless we
take heed we will come under condemna-
tion. The Lord has a great work for this
people to do, and it will take all the health,
strength, ability, might and power we can
muster. The Lord will not force health and
happiness upon us, but He will help us to
obtain it if we will follow His instructions.
	Now I think we have got something to
do, and I think it is time we set ourselves
about it, before our little ones are all taken
from us and we are left to mourn in sorrow.
What can be more desirable than a strong
and healthy constitution, to see our sons
and daughters growing up to be mighty
men and women in Israel? If the physical
strength is good the mind will be more en-
ergetic and more susceptible to good teach-
ings. There is a complete sympathy be-
tween the spirit and the body, more intri-
cate than a great many imagine. They are
inseparable in progression. If the spirit
leaves the body it dies, and I think the
soul can make but little advancement sepa-
rated from the body.
	For the last few years of Pres. Young's
life he tried every way to impress upon the
minds of the people the necessity of reform-
ing both in dress and food. How to pro-
mote the most good should be our constant
study. Pork should be thrown to the dogs;
it is generally pork-eaters that are troubled
with tumors, and cancers, and worms, es-
pecially the tape-worm. They are more
liable to take the smallpox and other conta-
gious diseases. Educated men and women
physicians cry out against these things.
And while I write, the vision of my mind
is opened, and I see where our folly is lead-
ing us. I see death instead of life be-
queathed to our children, and yet our eyes
are closed and we persist in our death-
dealing course.
	I would I had the voice of an angel, that
it might penetrate the heart of every man
and woman, and rouse them to a sense of
their danger. Latter-day Saints, wake up
and save your children. Let common sense
have fair play; be governed by reason; lis-
ten to the Word of Wisdom; look about and
see where you stand and where you are
drifting to. These are not things of small
moment; great events depend upon our
course at the present time. Already have
we procrastinated too long. A speedy re-
form must be inaugurated, if we would es-
cape intolerable sorrow.
								ENG.


TRANSMISSION:—Is the title of a little
book of 68 pages recently published by S.
R. Wells & Co., N. Y. The author, Georgi-
ana B. Kirby, writing from Santa Cruz, Cal.,
says, and truly, it is but a hint in the right
direction. The book will probably receive
further notice in a future number of this
paper.			S. M. K.
	"WE EXTRACT the following from our cor-
respondent's letter: "We are rejoicing in
Santa Cruz over our first sufficient rain
fall, which began on the eve of the 30th
ult. The oldest Spaniards remember a win-
ter forty years, or more, ago, when there
was no rain at all and the people drove the
greater portion of their cattle over the
bluffs into the Bay in order to save the re-
mainder. So there is a slight distrust of
providence every year until the ground is
well soaked."		S. M. K.


194		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15, 1879.


[Column 1]

VISIT TO WASHINGTON.

	In our last editorial, written from Washing-
ton, we promised our readers to tell them some-
thing more of our visit to the National Capi-
tol, and perhaps we ought to say a trifle more
concerning the Convention. The suffrage la-
dies espoused the cause we represented nobly,
and gave us more opportunities of bringing the
Utah question forward than we could possibly
have expected. Indeed, we felt delicate in re-
sponding to their kind and pressing solicita-
tions to speak, knowing how very unpopular
Mormonism is in the world. We have a grate-
ful remembrance of these noble women, and
trust in the future we may have an opportunity
of returning the kindnesses and courtesies we
received at their hands. We are sorry we are
not able to publish a book and mention all the
ladies who impressed us favorably, but we
really must notice a few more with whom it
was pleasant to meet and converse. Elizabeth
Oakes Smith is a lady of the finest culture, her
soft beautiful grey curls clustered about her
fair forehead and suggested the face of a poet.
We had read and enjoyed her writings from
our earliest childhood, and to stand face to face
and converse with her was like the fulfillment
of some bright dream.
	The Misses Foster, from Philadelphia, were
young ladies of fine attainments intellectually,
and devoted to the promotion of the advance-
ment of woman. They represented the Suf-
frage Association of Philadelphia. Mrs. Sey-
mour was a lovely little woman from good old
Massachusetts. Her dress, her manner, her
tone of voice, her very presence bespoke refine-
ment, culture and a finished education.
	Mrs. Helen M. Slocum, of New York, Mrs.
C. B. Winslow, M. D., editor of the "Alpha"
in Washington, each addressed the Conven-
tion in Lincoln Hall, speaking eloquently on
the terrible evils of society at the present time
and the great need of reform, and woman's
help.  Both these ladies are fine scholars and
fluent speakers.
	The reporters of Washington papers who at-
tended the Convention, and the ladies who 
represented newspapers from all parts of the
country were extremely gracious to us, and in
many instances gave us favorable notices in
their letters. Among this number we must
not forget Miss Grundy, whose letters to the
Philadelphia "Times" and Boston "Herald"
are always considered "par excellence." Miss
Woodbury, Mrs. Garrigan, and many others
too numerous to mention by name were very
kind indeed, and several gentlemen and gen-
tlemanly reporters were also extremely polite.
We have no reason whatever to complain of
this class; we were always admitted to the re-
porter's gallery, either in the Senate or House,
through the courtesy of Mrs. Spencer, whose
name was a talisman to open the way to all

[Column 2]

such places. We became [tolerably familiar
with the Capitol, and spent much of our time
in watching the doings of Senators and Con-
gressmen; indeed, it puzzled some people to
see how easily we obtained a hearing.
	We cannot tell you now just how we man-
aged to see everybody we wanted to see, and
say what we wanted to say, but we will pass
on to the White House (at some future time
we will tell you about the receptions) and our
interview with President Hayes. His Excel-
lency made the appointment himself, and after
we had given him a few facts in relation to the
condition of this people, and what was likely
to be the consequences of severe and harsh
measures, he remarked that he had never be-
fore considered the subject in the light we had
presented it, and he felt it was of too much
importance to trust to memory, and desired us
to make a similar statement in writing, which
we prepared and placed in His Excellency's
hands before leaving Washington. We also
had the pleasure of a private interview with
Mrs. Hayes, who is certainly a most remarka-
ble woman; her simplicity in dress, her home-
like air, her friendly greeting for all those who
call upon her, her sweet expression, her benevo-
lent face and charming manner all attract the
admiration of visitors, and her firmness in per-
sisting in discarding wine and all intoxicating
drinks from the White House, all these things
stamp her as a woman of remarkably strong
character. To our party she was kindness per-
sonified; she listened attentively to all we had
to say in regard to the circumstances of our
people, and her womanly sympathies were
very perceptibly aroused.
	We frequently met with people who mani-
fested the greatest interest in the Mormon
Question. How far their influence might bene-
fit our people, or how much popularity they
would sacrifice for the sake of aiding the Mor-
mons, we have no way of determining.
	After having spent a little more than three
weeks in this famous city, striving to do some
little good in removing prejudice, we bid adieu
for a short season at least to the seat of govern-
ment and took the train for Chicago. We had
a quick and pleasant journey to that city,
reaching there at 6 o'clock in the morning; we
drove to the Palmer House and breakfasted.
There we met some of the members of the Ju-
diciary Committee of the House, who had
come there to investigate in the impeachment
of Judge Blodgett. We traveled on the Chi-
cago and Northwestern Railway to Omaha,
then took the U. P. for Ogden. On this road
we formed some pleasant traveling acquaint-
ances. There was a great variety of persons
to interest a student of human nature; Jews,
Gentiles and Mormons, all sociable and in-
clined to play the agreeable with each other.
There were doctors, lawyers, judges, scholars,
merchants, and, of gentleman and ladies the
Pullman car was full. There were two or three
charming young widows who seemed to have
manifold attractions for the gentlemen passen-
gers, and indeed the ladies were a little smit-
ten with their handsome faces and brilliant
conversation. There was a sweet-faced young
bride from Washington, accompanying her
husband to San Diego, Cal. She had never
been away from home and mama, and her
artless and innocent manner, her devotion to
the man of her choice, her youth, her beauty
and her subdued gaiety all awakened a pecu-
liar interest, which called forth emotions akin
to sorrow, for it carried us back many, many
long years, when we, then in the sweet trust
and innocence of early girlhood embarked on
the sea of matrimony, and leaving our happy
home, mother, and all we loved and held dear,

[Column 3]

journeyed westward, with perfect faith in him
to whom we had consigned the keeping of our
soul's treasures. But alas! the sequel remains
locked in our heart of hearts, too sacred for
the eyes of the curious. Forgive if we digress.
Suffice it to say we offered a silent prayer that
the future path of the young bride might be
strewn with the fairest of earth's flowers.
	The passengers were many of them going to
San Francisco and other places west, for busi-
ness purposes, a few were traveling for health
or pleasure. Mr. Tevis, of San Francisco, was
returning home from a tour abroad; he had
visited the European .continent, the British
Isles and Greenland Theodore M.Lilienthal,son
of the Rev. Dr. Lilienthal, of Cincinnati, a very
genial man of education and culture, a most
agreeable traveling companion, was one of the
party. Thomas Godey, jr., of Baltimore, very
young and attractive, was making his first trip
west to visit relatives in the far famed city of
the Pacific. To mention all the party's full
names would be useless, as our readers could
not appreciate the compliment not knowing
the persons, but we will close this part of the
chapter by saying that the time was agreeably
spent and left a happy impression of the party
in our minds. We arrived at home on the
evening of Feb. 4, finding all well, prosperous
and happy in the "City of the Saints."
	Once more we are sitting at the same desk,
seeing the same faces come in and out, and we
might almost fancy we had been dreaming, if
it were not for the hearty congratulations, the
warm welcomes, which remind us we must
have been absent, doing something, or saying
something—we scarcely realize ourselves; yet
with a perfect consciousness that there must
have been an unseen power which guided us,
sustained us in our labors, and brought us safe
home to the "valley we love."
	E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.
PRESIDENT ELIZA R. SNOW has been visit-
ing Relief Societies in Weber Co., and holding
meetings In the various settlements for more
than a week past.
SISTERS ZINA D. YOUNG, M. I. Horne and
E. S. Taylor visited the R. S. in Tooele and
held a meeting there on Saturday, returning on
Monday the 10th inst.
WE trust our patrons will excuse any seeming
neglect in publishing R.S. Reports and notices
of mass meetings in the various stakes and
towns as we have so recently returned and find
so much copy awaiting publication that we
have scarcely had time to arrange it all proper-
ly.  Our correspondents must not think their
letters lost or rejected because they have not
yet appeared; for our desk is full, and we will
answer those that require answers just as
soon as possible.  Meantime we hope we shall
still be favored with their future correspond-
ence; the more we have to select from the bet-
ter; and we shall seek to cull the very choicest
articles of prose and poetry.
ON Thursday, Feb. 6, we attended a special
meeting of the Relief Society, held in Union
Hall, in Ogden City.  Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
President of the Weber Co. R. S., presided.
There was a large and attentive assembly.
After the usual exercises of singing and prayer
Mrs. Richards made a few opening remarks,
and was followed by Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs.
Zina Young Williams.  These ladies gave a
short sketch of their trip to Washington, and
their interviews with some of the leading men
of the nation. President Eliza R. Snow was
the principal speaker on the occasion, she gave


items of her experience in Missouri and Illinois,
when she had sought for justice at the hands
of leading men in those States. She
spoke strongly and earnestly upon home
industries and urged the sisters to use
their utmost powers to help in establishing
home manufacturers. Elder Franklin D. Rich-
ards made a few closing remarks in which he
expressed himself in regard to the work in 
which the sisters are engaged. For all good
words of appreciation and encouragement from
men and especially brethren, we feel truly glad,
for woman's cause and man's cause is insepar-
able, and must be a mutually co-operative
work.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MEMORIAL.
The Speaker laid before the House the me-
morial of Emmeline B. Wells and Zina Young
Williams, of Salt Lake City, Utah Territory,
asking for the repeal of the anti polygamy law
of 1862, and for legislation to protect the wo-
men and childeren of Utah Territory.
MR. CLARK, of Missouri.  I ask that the
paper be read.
The paper was read, as follows:

To the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States in Congress assembled:
Whereas a recent decision of the Supreme
Court of the United States has declared the
anti-polygamy law of 1862 to be in accordance
with the Constitution; and
 Whereas we, and Mormon women generally,
previous to that decision implicitly believed
that this law was in violation of the Constitu
tion. which says, “Congress shall make no law
respec[-]ing an establishment of religion, or pro-
hibiting the free exercise thereof;" and
Whereas under our present civilization we
have a peaceful, prosperous and healthy con-
dition of society, our children are owned and
supported by their fathers and are equally rec-
ognized as heirs to their father's estate, and our
women are protected from the temptation to
infanticide and kindred crimes; and
 Whereas the enforcement of the law of 1862
would imprison our husbands, despoil and de-
stroy our homes, render our children illegiti-
mate before the world, and leave ourselves and
many thousands of women desolate and un-
protected; and
Whereas this example set by the United
States would encourage mobs to violently as-
sault and afflict us as in times past, when we
were driven from State to State far out beyond
the pale of this Republic; and 
Whereas we went far out into the wilderness
by the advice and at the suggestion of eminent
leading American statesman, that we might
worship God according to the dicta'es of our
own consciences, without fear or molestation,
and at the same time extend to all, of what-
ever faith, the same precious privilege; and
Whereas, after the United States had taken
possession of the land which our people had
redeemed from the desert and made prosperous,
and which the Mormon battalion under Colonel
Philip St. George Cooke had togther with
what is now known as California, Nevada,
New Mexico and Arizona, helped to conquer,
President Fillmore, "by the advice and consent,
of the Senate," appointed Brigham Young,
then a practical polygamist, governor of Utah,
we had good reason to believe the Govern-
ment would continue to protect us in our reli-
gious faith and its practice, and 
Whereas harsh measures toward our people,
such as destruction of families and homes, will
have a tendency to drive many to desperation,
while just and humane treatment will foster


and strengthen love and affection for the Gov-
ernment, thereby securing a more peaceful is-
sue of affairs now pending; and
Whereas we ourselves and a majority of our
people are native-born citizens of the United
States and desire to live in obedience to the
laws of our country; Therefore
We pray your honorble body to repeal the
anti polygamy law of 1862; and
We further pray you to enact such legisla-
tion as will securely legitimatize our children
and protect our names from dishonor by pre-
serving unbroken the existing relationship of
families which are already bound together by
the strongest ties of affection, and whose lives
would be forever wrecked through separation;
and
We further pray that in any future legislation
concerning the marriage relation in any Terri-
tory under your jurisdiction you will consider
the rights, the hearts, and the consciences of
the women to be affected by such legislation,
and that you will consider the permanent care
and welfare of children as the sure foundation
of the state.
 And your petitioners will ever pray.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		ZINA YOUNG WILLIAMS.
MR. CANNON, of Utah.  I move that the me-
morial be referred to the Committe on the Ju-
diciary, with leave to report at any time.
MR. TOWNSEND, of New York.  I object to
leave being given to report at any time.  I do
not object to the reference.
The memorial was referred to the Committee
on the Jndiciary.
ENFORCEMENT OF ANTI-POYGAMY LAW.
The Speaker also laid before the House a let-
ter from the Secretary of the Interior, trans-
mitting a number of petitions for the enforce-
ment of the anti-polygamy law referred to that
Department by the President; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judiciary.


EXTRACT.

FROM THE LETTER OF A LADY PHYSICIAN
IN PENNSYLVANIA.

DEAR MRS. WELLS:
*	*	*	I wish I could do something
to encourage and cheer you. I sent you the
first notice I saw of the movement of the
Anti-polygamy Crusade. I was greatly sur-
prised as well as grieved to know that there
were women so utterly ignorant of God's laws
as to inaugurate such a movement. I do not,
of course, know the laws of your church, but
take it for granted that they are binding, just
as they should be. That women are degraded,
enslaved, and cruelly treated in the polygamic
creed I do not believe. My knowledge of wo-
man teaches me that the conditions of women
in plural marriage must be more consistent
with the laws of life and health than in mo-
nogamy.
	Prostitution and [-]eath are broadcast in our
land to-day from this very cause, and there
seems to be no stay to the foul fiend. "Death
mocks at it with a h[-]-ha—society hisses and
scorns," itself reeking in the filthy slough.
Polygamy a curs[-]?  Nay, not that, but the
greatest blessing ever bestowed upon woman;
and thousands to-day would flock to the stand-
ard did they but understand and know the
true laws governing them. I do not believe
that there is a true woman in our land to-day
but grieves and silently sorrows at the down-
fall of any wom[-]n, but s[-]e is helpless and can
do nothing, not even give a helping hand to


the fallen one; and it seems to me this is the
only way out of it. You have my heartiest
prayers and deepest sympathies, and would to 
God I could do something to help elevate and
ennoble woman. I am doing something, but
it is so little compared to the field before me
that I feel humble, and it seems to me some-
times that I am a stumbling block instead of
an aid.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at West Jordan, Jan. 16, 1879, Abigail
Bradford, wife of Bishop A. Gardner, aged 66
years and 4 months. Sister Gardner joined
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
at an early date in its history, shared in the 
persecutions of the Saints, and emigrated to
Utah in the year 1847. She was always firm
in the faith, and was a zealous advocate of the
principles of the latter-day work. "Aunt Ab-
bie," as she was familiarly called had many
noble qualities of both heart and mind. She
was a member of the Relief Society, and an
earnest laborer in all good works. Her loss
will be felt not only by her relations, but by a
host of intimate friends and aasociates. Her
remains were inter[-]ed in Salt Lake City ceme-
tery, by the side of a number of her kindred.
"Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord,
their works do follow them.


[Column 1]
CAREFUL TRAINING.

	How necessary that the training of chil-
dren should be directed with care and cau-
tion, as their little minds are very suscept-
able to impressions that will form a part of
their character and deportment, and will
indeliby mark their future path in life.
	This thought was called forth from a par-
lor entertainment last evening at Mrs. Jones
of the 11th ward, in this city. There was
a little handful of parents and children
seated in front of a temporary stage, which
was beautifully ornamented with hanging
baskets of moss-work and autumn leaves,
and temporary furniture; all of which was
the design and result of her own handi-
work.
	In turn came a little trained group, which
I learned was tutored by Miss Emma Jones.
The entertainment consisted of recitations,
songs, drama, dialogue and a tableau.
	The mosses and vines carried my mind
away into the hills, and back to the sea-
weed of the ocean. As the little fairies come
dancing upon the stage in such simplicity,
all so youthful, with such grace and gen-
tility, the scene and the actors bespoke a
talent, and a love for the beautiful. The
piano aided to echo heavenly sentiments
to our hearts. At the close the tableau
composed of the little fairy group, formed
a heavenly picture, and we all exclaimed,
"how beautiful!"
	This my sisters was real home enjoy-
ment, home taient, home manufacture.
	Then why? I ask, should the Latter-day
Saints, send for, and spend much, to pur-
chase toys to amuse and entertain the
youth, when better can be produced at
home. Simple amusements formed in
home circles, will not fail to leave good
impressions upon the youthful mind and
help to establish a love for home.
						E. S. Barney
	Feb. 8th 1879.


TRUTHS were born with eternity; the ca-
pacity to apprehend them waits in time.--
E. S. TURNER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
			LIFE AT THE CAPITOL.

	Washington, the famous city of all oth-
ers, where American Statesmen annually
assemble to make and devise laws and em-
power the nation's courts; where genius,
fashion and wisdom vie for mastery; where
great men bow to human laws, and cowards
grovel at the feet of diplomatists--here I 
find myself looking on and wondering,
taking an active part, too, in work which
erst seemed distasteful.  From Senate to
House, from one Reporter's Gallery to the
other, through long corridors and halls,
up and down wide staircases, and narrow
ones - getting interviewed by newspaper
people on the way - into Committee Rooms,
and waiting in window recesses - all these
things I've been doing, but with a personal
feeling of intense abhorrence, yet with a
strong sense of duty.
 To be sure there are many beautiful his-
torical paintings, and pictures of great men,
statuary, etc., pillars of polished marble,
magnificent, ornamental and the most elab-
orate and artistic architecture, all these and
much more, but here where beautiful
things predominate, viewing the greatest
men who are before the nation to-day, there
arises within me the most peculiar feelings
and curious thoughts, and although the
surroundings are calculated to inspire one
with reverence for the past and those whose
figures in painting and sculpture adorn
Washington's most magnificent building,
"the Capitol," yet the scenes going on
around me, the conversation which falls up-
on my ear, dispels the semi-enchantment
and drags the senses back to a keener ap-
preciation of the phases of human life, as
they present themselves to those who are
looking on.
	Here and there, alone and in groups, are
numbers of people all eager and expectant,
each with the very impress of their own na-
ture visibly stamped upon the countenance.
Some tired, restless, but earnest ones, some
careless, frivolous, gay ones; they wait
around the staircases, in the halls, at the
doors of Committee Rooms, men and wo-
men, all with a purpose - to carry some
measure, to obtain some favor, or to influ-
ence some member of Congress for or
against the passage of some bill, or appro-
priation.
Pretty little scenes of a ridiculous or sen-
timental nature are constantly occurring.
Noticing one day a woman of decidedly
odd appearance, I observed her actions as I
sat alone waiting the audience of a Senator;
she called a messenger and sent her card;
a very dignified elderly gentleman came
from the Senate.  She rose and took his
proffered hand, welcoming him most cor-
dially, never letting go his hand one minute
- he was evidently much embarrassed,
there were many people in the room; she
looked up into his face, and smiled as she
urged her question.  He stammered and
hesitated; she persisted, she coaxed, and at
intervals laughed aloud like a young miss
of sixteen; she kept him in agony, until he
could not, or would not, endure it any
longer (holding his hand up to the last mo-
ment), and at last she was obliged to let
him go.  I could not hear except now and 
then a word, but that was sufficient to
arouse my curiosity in the woman.  She
soon sent for another Senator, and after
persecuting three of them in a similar man-
ner, she hobbled out.  I always had a great
respect for age, but this woman, over sev-
enty years old, as I afterward learned, as-
suming the costume and manners of a young
woman, with yellow wig, "rouge" and
powder, disgusted me.  A newspaper man
to whom I had been introduced, noticing I
observed her, asked me if I knew who she
was; I replied in the negative; he told me
her name; it was one with which I was fa-
miliar, through Washington papers.  There
are scores, I may say, of young women who
coax, and flirt, and practice all sorts of in-
nocent little arts to carry out their own pur-
poses, and looking up into the Senator's
handsome faces, tell them in the most grace-
ful manner they are the very nicest and
best men in all the world, etc.  "O that I
should see what I have seen!" and "such
is life" at the Capitol.  Here, as elsewhere,
those who pander to the caprices of men
are the women who win, while those who
maintain a firm integrity to principle are
generally unheard and unheeded.  It is
enough to make one exclaim in the lan-
guage of the Psalmist, "How long!  O Lord,
how long?"
	The short session of Congress this year,
and the great amount of work to be done,
causes some strong arguments to be used
on questions to be discussed, and this spar-
ring is really entertaining, if one could
only have time to hear it.  But we came
here for a purpose, and consequently cannot
devote much time to any question, except
such as bears upon our own.
 In the Riggs House, where Mrs. Williams
and I are staying, there are great men
stopping, whom we have a good opportunity
of seeing as they sit at dinner, or in the
parlors. Vice-President Wheeler and At-
torney-General Devens take their meals in
the large and elegant dining-room where
we take ours.  There are also Senators and
Representatives from several States; some
have brought their families and some are
here alone.
	Most of the ladies dress very elegantly.
Many of them are very tall, and I have no-
ticed that there are many more elderly
ladies than young ones; also that the mem-
bers of Congress are in a large proportion
men advanced in years, whose locks are
grey, and who are undoubtedly possessed
of great wisdom and large experience in
politics and matters of state.
 The ladies devote themselves to society,
and spend most of their time in making
elaborate toilettes, calling and receiving
and at evening parties in honor of each
other.  Occasionally there is a grand wed-
ding, where the silks, satins, flowers, laces
and velvets abound still more profusely.
	There are two ladies of talent, each highly
gifted in her own art, in the Hotel, who
have both been particularly kind to us.
Mrs. Morrell, a painter and a real artist,
whose pictures are not only beautiful, but
many of them are historical, is one of these.
She speaks French and German, has trav-
eled on the continent, in fact resided in
Paris and other famous cities of the Old
World, and has all the polish of a true
Frenchwoman.  The other is a writer of
rare ability, quite young and very popular,
whose letters from Washington are espe-
cially entertaining.  These two ladies we
shall always remember with pleasure.
							AUNT EM.
	WASHINGTON, Jan. 25, 1879.


; ﻿Mr. and Mrs. Brewer of Wayne County
Kentucky have twenty two children,—an
extensive Brewery.

	Stephen Douglas said: "There is no ap-
peal this side of heaven," from the Su-
preme Court, thus creating a despotism in
this country. Abraham Lincoln said: "There
is an appeal, and the People are the Tri-
bunal to appeal to. Which is right?


RESOLUTIONS

ADOPTDD BY THE ELEVENTH CONVENTION
OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN SUFFRAGE
ASSOCIATION, HELD IN LINCOLN HALL,
WASHINGTON, D. C., JANUARY 9TH AND
10TH, 1879.

	Whereas, in the recent elections for the
popular branch of the National Legislature,
the question of woman suffrage was wholly
ignored by each of the great political par-
ties, even our most zealous friends not risk-
ing a vote in behalf of this principle, and
	Whereas, the result of said elections, in-
stead of being the overwhelming victory for
either party which each anticipated,has been
to more evenly balance them, so that if an
election for the next president should be
thrown into the House of Representatives,
the result may turn upon a financial issue
to which neither of the old parties is com-
mitted, and which is now represented by a
third party:
	Therefore resolved, Tbat we press upon
the National Party the vital question of 
national citizenship secured by constitu-
tional amendment as a question underlying
the financial and all other national issues;
	And further Resolved, That we respect-
fully remind all political parties that we
cannot have honest money until we have
honest men.
	Resolved, That the Forty-Fifth Congress,
in ignoring the petitions of more than three
hundred women citizens of high social
standing and culture asking for the remov-
al of their political disabilities, while
promptly enacting special legislation for
the removal of the political disabilities of
every man who presented to them a similar
petition, furnishes a clear illustration of the
total indifference of this Congress to the
rights of citizens belonging to a class de-
prived of political power.
	Whereas, a Sixteenth Constitutonal
Amendment for Woman Suffrage is now
pending on a tie vote in the House Judici-
ary Committee;—Yeas, Lapham, N. Y.;
Lynde, Wis.; Frye,. Me.; Butler, Mass.;
Conger, Mich.;—Nays, Knott, Ky.; Hart-
ridge, Ga.; Stenger, Penn.; McMahon, O.;
Culberson, Texas;—Absent Harris of Va.,
who declares he has never ihvestigated the
subject;
	Therefore Resolved,That it is the duty
of Harris of Va. to remain absent when a
vote on this question is taken, until he has
given it as much consideration, as if the
rights of all men were therein involved.
	Whereas, as announced by Senator
Blaine, it is the very essence of tyranny to 
count any citizens in the basis of representa-
tion who are denied a voice in their laws
and a choice in their rulers,
	Therefore Resolved, That counting wo-
men in the basis of representation, while
denying them the right of suffrage, is
compelling them to swell the number of
their tyrants and is an unwarrantable usur-
pation of power over one-half the citizens
of this Republic.
	Whereas, in President Hayes' last mes-
sage, he takes a truly paternal review of
the interests of this Republic, both great
and small, from the Army, the Navy and
our foreign relations, to the ten little Indi-
ans in Hampton, Va., our timber on the
western mountains, and the switches of the
Washington railroads; from the Paris Ex-
position, the postal service the abundant
harvests, and the possible bull-dozing of
some colored men in various southern dis-
tricts, to cruelty to live animals, and the
crowded condition of the mumies, dead
ducks and fishes sn the Smithsonian Insti.


[Column 1]
tution; yet forgets to mention twenty mill-
ion women citizens robbed of their social,
civil and political rights;
	Therefore Resolved, That a committee
of three be appointed from this Convention
to wait upon the President and remind him
of the existence of one-half of the Ameri-
can people whom he has accidentally over-
looked, and af whom it would be wise for
him to make some mention iu his future
messages.
	Whereas all of the vital principles invol-
ved in the thirteenth, fourteenth and fif-
teenth constitutional amendments have been
denied in their application to women by
courts, legislatures and political parties;
Therefore Resolved, That it is eminently
logical that these amendments should utter-
ly fail to protect even the male African, for
whom said courts, legislatures and parties
declare they were expressly designed and
enacted;
	And further, Resolved, That thus, ever
above all the short-sighted schemes of poil-
ticians will the inexorable law of justice
bind humanity together and vindicate the 
equil rights of all.
	Resolved, That the Senate Judiciary
Committee, in its report on the bill to allow
women to practice law in the courts of the
United States, in which they declare that
"further legislation is not necessary," evad-
ed the plain question at issue before them
in a manner unworthy of Judges learned in
the honorable profession of the law, and
thereby sanctioned an injustice to the wo-
men of the whole country.
	Resolved, That the judges of the Supreme
Court of the United States, in denying ad-
mission to its bar of Belva A. Lockwood,
who was entitled under the law and under
its rules to admission therat, violated their
oath of office.
	Resolved, That the policy of this govern-
ment in appointing agents to educate and
civilize the Indians, to obtain calico dresses
for squaws and aprons for papooses, and a 
comfortable salary for their own pockets out
of money justly due the Indian tribes, is in
harmony with man's treatment of woman
in appropriating her property, talents, time
and labors, and using the proceeds as he 
pleases in the name of protection.
	Resolved, That the oft-repeated declara-
tion by women, "I have all the rights I
want," is due to the same feeling of intimi-
dation and subserviency to those who feed,
clothe and shelter them (out of their own
unpaid earnings) which prevents the colored
men in the South from expressing an opin-
ion or casting a vote contrary to the wishes
of their former masters, unless the army of
the United States is at hand to protect them
from the consequences.
	Whereas the general government has re-
fused to exercise federal power to protect
women in their citizen's right to vote in the
various States and Territories, it should for-
bear to exercise federal power to disfran-
chise the women of Utah, who have had a
more just and liberal spirit shown them by
Mormon men than Gentile women in the
States have yet perceived in their rulers.
	Whereas the proposed-legislation for the 
Chinese women on the Pacific slope and for
outcast women in our cities, and the opin-
ion of the press that no respectable woman
should be seen in the streets after dark, are
all based upon the assumption that woman's
freedom must be forever sacrificed to man's
license;
	Therefore Resolved, That the ballot in
woman's hand is the only power by which
she can restrain the liberty of those men
who make our streets and highways dan-

[Column 2]
gerous to her, and secure the freedom that
belongs to her by day and by night.
	Resolved, That the National Woman
Suffrage Association urge the women citi-
zens of the United States to send petitions
not merely in names 40,000 strong, but by
the hundreds of thousands to the Forty-
Sixth Congress, asking for a constitutional 
amendment prohibiting the several states
from disfranchising United States' citizens
on account of sex.
	And further Resolved, That we urge each
woman who signs a Sixteenth Amendment
petition to send an individual petition to
the Forty-Sixth Congress, asking for the
removal of her political disabilities, that
the coming Congress may be educated to a 
just recognition of the rights and demands
of women citizens.
	Resolved, That we urge the women citi-
zens of the several states to go before their
own state legislatures during the present
winter with petitions and arguments for
the passage of a resolution urging Congress
to submit to the states the pending Six-
teenth Amendment to protect women citi-
zens in the right to vote.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS

	The Vice-President presented the peti-
tion of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Matilda
Joslyn Gage, and Susan B. Anthony, of-
ficers of the National Woman's Suffrage
Association, praying for the passage of Sen-
ate Joint resolution No. 12, providing for
an amendment to the Constitution of tne
United States protecting the rights of wo-
men citizens, and also that the House Ju-
diciary Committee be relieved from the 
further consideration of a similar resolu-
tion.
	Mr. Ferry.  If there is no objection, I 
ask that, the petition be read at length.
The Vice-President.  The Chair hears no
objection, and it will be reported by the 
Secretary. 
	The petition was read, and referred to 
the Committee on Privileges and Elections,
as follows:
To the Senate and House of Representa-
	tives of the United States in Congress
	assembled:
	Whereas more than forty thousand well-
known men and women, citizens of thirty-
five States and five Territoriers, have peti-
tioned the Forty-fifth Congress, asking for 
an amendment to the Federal Constitution
prohibiting the several States from disfran-
chising United States citizens on account 
of sex; and 
Whereas a resolution providing for such
constitutional smendmen is upon the Cal-
endar, (Senate resolution No. 12, second
session Forty-fifth Congress,) and a similar
resolution is pending upon a tie vote in the 
Judiciary Committee of the House of Rep-
resentatives; and
Whereas the women citizens of tee Unit-
ed States are are joint heirs with men of this
Republic, constitute one-half of the peopl,
and have an inalienable right to an equal
voice with men in the nation's councils
and
	Whereas this Republic is governed by 
opinions, and not by force of arms; and
	Whereas women citizens, being denied

the right to have their opinions counted at
the ballot-box, are compelled to hold all
other rights subject to the favor, passions,
and caprices of men; and 
Whereas in answer to the appeals of so 
large a number of peaceable, law, abiding, 
honorable petitioners, it is just and courte-


ous that the Forty-fifth Congress should ex-
press its opinion and leave its record upon 
this grave question of human rights; There-
fore,
We pray your honorable body to take
from the Calendar and pass Senate resolu-
tion No. 12, (secood session Forty-fifth Con,
gress,) providing for an amendment to the
Constitution protecting the rights of wo-
men citizuns; and
We further pray you to relieve the the
House Judiciary Committee from the fur-
ther cnnsideration of the sixteenth amend-
ment women suffrage resolution brought
to a tie vote in that committee Februaary
5, 1878, that it may be submitted to the 
House of Representatives for immediate
action.
And your petitioners will ever pray.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, President.
Matilda Joslyn Gage, Corresponding
Secretary.
Susan B. Anthony, Chairman Exec-
utive Committee.


THE WICKED FOXES.

ON THE BILL TO DISFRANCHISE THE WO-
MEN OF UTAH.

A FABLE BY LITTLE DEVEREUX BLAKE.
There lived at the West certain Wicked
Foxes who built large Traps in which they
caught great numbers of Foolish Field
Mice.  Now all  other Foxes who had
no Traps pretended a great horror at this,
although every one of them would catch
Field Mice whenever he could Secretly,
and devour them without the least com-
punction.  So the Foxes who had no Traps
assembled together to see how they could
destroy the Traps of the Western Foxes,
and one of Them ably said:-- "We must do
Something to Somebody, because the whole
nation of Foxes is disgraced by these
Traps."  Then another one said:-- "let us
cut off Somebody's Ears!" and they all
applauded the suggestion with admiration.
But when they come to consider whose
ears they should cut off, they were much
puzzled until one old Fox, who had eaten
a Vast Quantity of Mice in his Day, said,
"Cut off the Ears of the Field Mice."
There was great rejoicing over this
wise Proposal, and when one Fox feebly
whispered that as the Western Foxes were
the real criminals, it would be more sensi-
ble to Cut off their Ears, his Companions
all looked at him with scorn.  "Why" said
they, "the Western Foxes are as Big as we
are." No no!  These Field Mice are little
and weak; they cannot hurt Us whatever
we do to them."  So the Foxes solemnly
resolved to cut off the Ears of the Field
Mice in order to destroy the Wicked Traps,
MORAL.--Always hit some one Smaller
than Yourself.


ANNA DICKINSON, at the solicitation of 
friends, has consented to appear again on
the lecture platform, and give, in a series
of lectures, the result of her studies. Miss
Dickenson is said to have consented to this
arrangement with reluctance, fearing it
might be supposed that she had given up
her intention to follow the stage. Her
lectures will be delivered in only the larg-
est cities, beginning in New York, and her
subjects for the series, which will include
four lectures, will be "John of Arc,"
"Henry IV," "Voltaire," and "Danton."
She will be under the management of the
American Literary Bureau—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
			A PROPHECY.
	The decision of the Supreme Court of 
the United States, and its bearing upon the 
Reynold's case, is calculated to rouse the 
indignation of the Latter-day Saints; and
many express great pity for Brother Rey-
nolds.  Do I pity him?  Not if he is the
man I think he is.  If I was a man I would 
envy his position to-day.  He is the peo-
ple's offering, and their prayers will ascend
up into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth,
and the special care of the Almighty will
be over and round about him.  When I
view his case with a prophetic eye, I see
no cause for pity!  I pity the ignorance of 
our opponents and despise their temerity.
Brother Reynolds is guilty of no crime; if 
he suffers it will be for the principles of 
truth and right.  He is the Isaac that Abra-
ham is about to offer up as a sacrafice, and 
as in Isaac's case; a ram will be caught in
the thicket, and Haman (Anti Polygamy)
will hang upon the gallows, erected for
Mordecai, (Polygamy) while Mordecai is 
clothed in costly raiment, and a crown of 
gold placed upon his head, and nations will
bow in homage before him.
ENG.
12th ward S. L. City, Jan. 17, 1879.


[For the EXPONENT]
MY LITTLE HOME.
My little home!  I look around and days
and hours of happiness arise before me, I
recall the hours when my dearly beloved
husband sat and talked with me, or smiled
upon our children, or sang hymns with us
all.  Hours that come not again, save in
remembrance, the smile has faded from his
face and the song of "Sweet rest in Heaven"
has been realized; blessed hours of the past!
They live forever in the memory like the
fragrance of a crushed flower.  Those hours
will never be forgotton, and the memory
of them is often evoked by some slight oc-
curence, and a halo of happiness comes with
it. But then again arises the  memory of
hours of sorrow, at other times, hours of
bitterness of spirit, when death had inva-
ded the household, and life seemed a blank,
save for the comfort of my children.
Gloomy hours, sorrowful hours; but than
God, time has taken the keen edge from
those deep griefs, and I can look back upon
them now without sorrowing.  Here where
memory paints its pictures the happy hours
that I have spent with my children com
trooping before me, though anxious hours
again intervene.  Sunshine and shadow,
chase eacc other.  But all these have en-
deared my little humble home to me.
EMILY B. SPENCER.
St. George, Jan. 4th 1779.


IT is now generally conceded that woman
is largely the moral teacher of the race:
that, by the sacred office of motherhood,
she becomes the primary instructor of eth-
ics.  But she has consulted Man's text book
of morals, imparting its lessons, age after
age, generation after generation.  Yet in 
this period of her awakening, she discovers
that Man's ethical standards are in great
need of revision; in short, that woman
herself should now largely determine the 
standard and method of moral education
for the race.  This work she will perform,
for the most part, through all womanly
methods in the home-life, and through all
the gracious spheres of her loves and friend-
ships.  She will thus fertilize the roots of
social life with the genius of an unselfish
spirituality. --E. C. BRISTOL.


THE WOLF AND THE CRANE.

A FABLE MODERNIZED FROM AESOP, BY
LITTLE DEVEREUX BLAKE.

	A Wolf who had got  Bone stuck sn his
throat ran up and down in the greatest
agony, entreating every animal he met to 
relieve him.  A Crane moved by his en-
treaties, and pitying his sufferings, ventu-
red his long neck down the Wolf's throat
and drew out the Bone.  But although the 
Wolf thus owed his life to the Crane, he 
would not confess it, but went about saying
that after all Cranes were but silly crea-
tures; that they would rush into danger
foolishly, and that it was much to his 
credit that he had not bitten off this one's 
head when she had put herself so much 
in his power.
Moral.-Many a man who has owed his life
 to a woman's devotion has thought this no 
reason why he should not speak contempt-
nously of the whole sex.


ANOTHER truth, which is but faintly re-
alized by our civilization, and which wo-
man is pre-eminently fitted to emphasize
is the fact that only moral purity is able to 
perceive the divinity of things.  To see
the gods, we must become their peers.


NOTICE TO ALL!
P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS.
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.
SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.
Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
3 Bars for 25 Cents,
Harris' Soap, -- 3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc) ---35 Cents each
Brooms, ----- 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARN, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimere $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS.  Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.
FRENCH HAIR STORE.
Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style.  Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.        97 Kimball Block.
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE--Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of 
street.
Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of 
Women, and 
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.
TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price.
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.
Palace of Fasion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
D[--]ires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also a nice
selection in Flowers.  Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes  Country dealers,
please call   Ladies' Hair work in all its branches.  Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.
DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[--]and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods.  Etc., Etc.
WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
TEASDEL'S 
Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt 
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and 
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET.
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.
John Taylor, Pres't.                   Wm. Jennings, Vice-Pres't.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N,
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the 
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt 
Lake City.  All those who desire to aid home manufac-
tures and at the same time purchase  Boots and Shoes
of the most reliable quality, at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders to
WM. H. ROWE,
SUPERINTENDENT.
H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1879.


For the EXPONENT.
A YOUNG MISSIONARY TO HIS 
		MOTHER. 

 POETIZED BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Oh! bless thee, bless thee, mother dear,
In love's endearing name
I bless thee, love thee, and revere
Through all--unchanged, the same

	Mother, the mighty waters roll
		Between thy son and thee,
	But still he owns thy sweet control,
		And still thy form can see.

	Supreme of women, thou dost reign
		Within his f[--]al heart-
	And all his joys and sorrs fain
		Would to thine ear impart.

	Yes, think not, O my mother dear,
		I have forgotten thee,
	No! Memory must vacate her sphere,
		And love no longer be,

	Ere I forget thee, mother dear,
		Thou peeress of my heart!
	The thought of thee can wake the tear,
		And sweetest joys impart;

	The thought of thee can win me back
		To Virtue's own bright road,
	If e'er I wander from her track,
		Or from her pure abode.

	Oh! may this sweet, magnetic chain
		Through life extended be;
	It soothes my soul in every pain,
		And holds me true to thee!

	And next to God my mother stands
		Before my mental eye;
	When I obey her sweet commands
		I feel that God is night!

	Then think of me and pray for me,
		By day, by night-in joy,
	In sorrow-I implore of thee
		Recall thine absent boy!
Salt Lake City, Jan. 9, 1879.


[Column 1]

A SKETCH AND THOUGHTS.

	The "new crusade" has inspired many a 
dormant pen to try its skill in defense of 
the principle of plural marriage, and pro-
claim to the world the honest sentiments of 
the "women of Utah." As an American
Citizen—a child of Deseret, born amid the 
hardships incident to the Latter-day Saints,
toiling to make homes in this then barren
desert, I claim the privilege of expressing
my firm belief in the despised, abused, but
still heaven-revealed principle, that is re-
ceiving the unqualified disapprobation of 
the majority of the civilized world. I feel 
highly honored to be one of that "peculiar
people" who dare serve the Lord according
to His revealed will despite the opposition
and ridicule of Christendom. I will draw
a short and truthful sketch of one of the 
"down-trodden women of Utah," who have
excited the sympathy of our less fortunate
sisters. A long and very intimate acquain-
tance justifies the praise I may accord to 
my ideal—yet real woman. She is one of 
the most truly religious persons I ever met;
her high sense of duty to God and faith in 
His promises form striking characteristics,
making her heart a constant wellspring of 
cheerfulness, and friends love to linger near
to feel the sunshine of her social qualities.
Her trials are such as those that fall to 
wives and mothers in general, and added
to a frail body are the duties of public of-

[Column 2]
fice. In her family she reigns as a light
set upon a hill, that cannot be hid, and her
children call her blessed. Perhaps some
who affirm that a woman cannot be con-
tented, much less happy in Celestial mar-
riage, will not credit the fact that this hap-
py, intelligent woman is the first wife
of a number all married to her husband
with her cheerful consent, and welcomed
to her fireside as honorable and loved mem-
bers of the same family. Has true affection
decreased between husband and wife in
consequence of these additions? No, it has
not, for they each feel that their affection is 
built upon the solid foundation of mutual 
confidence, and each honors the other for
their faith and integrity in keeping God's
commands, while she is generous enough
to believe that man's heart is capable of ex-
pansion, which enables him to bestow affec-
tion upon more than one wife, even as a 
mother may love each of her several chil-
dren. How often have I wished that the 
whole world could witness the scenes of 
happiness in which I have participated with 
this family, and I think it would not con-
demn polygamy as being averse to the 
"peace and good order" of any community.
Could you see my ideal woman sitting at
the bedside of a frail, sick one, her hand laid
caressingly upon the frail brow, while her
low, gentle words were spoken and looks
were exchanged which told of deep and 
pure affection that was a fountain of happi-
ness to each—could you have heard a low
sweet voice warble forth two or three charm-
ing melodies at the request of the weary
invalid—could you note the earnest desire
to please, entirely forgetful of self, you
might ask if these were sisters with the 
ties of kindred? No; they are sisters of
Gospel tie, striving unselfishly to bless each
other as the wives of one man. From this 
peaceful scene goes forth the loving com-
panion to officiate in a meeting of her sis-
ters, where her influence is felt for good as
she urges all to lives of righteousness and 
purity, sowing seed to gladden the hearts
of the harvesters in after years, who will
surely reap the reward of the labors now 
being performed.
	From the performance of this duty she
joins the social evening party, only to win 
new laurels of esteem as a blessing and or-
nament to society. Besides visiting the 
sick and administering to the poor, she 
finds time to read good books, to correspond
with friends and even write many articles
in prose and poetry. She has no time and 
no disposition to indulge in morbid fancies
and vain imaginations, producing despon-
dency and dissatisfaction; she chooses to be
useful and happy, and of course succeeds.
	This description is from no over-wrought
fancy; it is a reality to which my feeble,
untried pen has not done justice, because 
there are always many instances of mental
conflict and battles with self, which result
in deeds of true heroism, and are not known
or appreciated by any save that "All-
searching eye," the just Judge above.
	May I ask, Where is the bondage in this 
case? Is such a life, a life of slavery? To
those ladies interested in improving the
condition of Mormon women, whose zeal
and sympathy are worthy of a wider field
of action—relieving those who are in the

[Column 3]
chains of sin and wretchedness in all the
cities of our Union—the victims of the
wickedness and abuse of men, many be-
trayed and abandoned. I ask, Is this not a
nobler work, a higher aim than to separate
families living in peace and comfort, be-
lieving in all sincerity that they are serving
God in the most acceptable way? From
whence springs this desire to disunite and 
send portions of a family adrift, dishonored
and disowned? Could you stand calmly by
and not be conscience-stricken and hear
the cries of thousands of women and chil-
dren, whose condition would be more pitia-
ble than that of widows and orphans, as-
cending to Almighty God against you?
	Would you separate children who play
together in the sweet relationship of brother
and sister? Would you tell women who
have lived in happy companionship for
years, who have watched over each other
in sickness through many a silent midnight
hour, rejoicing with almost equal enthusi-
asm over the birth of each other's children,
and together shedding bitter tears of be-
reavement when they were called heaven-
ward—women who have vowed to each
other, even as did Ruth of old to her
beloved mother-in-law, to share each other's
joys and sorrows together in preference to a 
life spent only for their own interest—that
such devotion and union is an evil course
and an abomination in the sight of God?
Was the Anti-polygamy Circular presented
to me, I would feel like inviting the car-
rier to an inspection of my comfortable
home—tell them of my husband's care and 
tenderness, my unbounded confidence in 
his virtue and honor; I would introduce
my home associates and their children, and 
ask them what they had to offer me in ex-
change for all this? Have they the power
to better our mental, physical and social
condition? We know they have not, so we
will continue to trust in Him who has been-
our unswerving friend in the past.
						OLIVE BRANCH.


BAYARD TAYLOR, born of Quaker parent-
age, in Chester Co., Pennsylvania, January,
11, 1825, died at Berlin, Germany, Decem-
ber 19, 1878--printer, poet, traveler, jour-
nalist, lecturer, novelist, diplomat--man!
In the last character he was greatest of all;
but Bayard Taylor was essentially a poet,
and had he devoted his tremendous ener-
gies solely to the development of his mar-
velous gifts in that direction, would have
been the greatest American poet of the
century. - Ex.
	MR. CUTLER has introduced a bill in the
House of Representatives to repeal section
4708 of the Revised Statutes, and give pen-
sions to widows of soldiers who are re-mar-
ried, or may re-marry.  It also provides
that pensions paid to dependant mothers or
sisters shall continue to be paid whether
they are married or not.  Mr. Cutler wisely
thinks--and thousands of others think with
him--that the pension acts which provide
that pensions shall cease upon the re-mar-
riage of the pensioner are contrary to pub-
lic policy.  The records of the courts in
every great city show it to be true.  We
are glad Mr. Cutler has introduced this bill,
and hope it will pass.--EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
	   PROVO CITY, NOV. 21st, 1878.
Minutes of Meeting of the Relief Socie-
ties of Utah Co., held in the meeting House,
Provo City, Sept. 27th, 1878.  Present, the
Presidency of the Stake, Sister Eliza R.
Snow and Zina D. Young, with many of
the officers and members of Relief Socie-
ties of the Country.
	President Abraham O. Smoot announced
the purpose of the call to be an organiza-
tion of the Relief Societies of the County;
therefore the business of the meeting would
be to elect officers of the Stake organization,
consisting of a President, two Counselors,
Recording Secretary and Corresponding
Secretary.  On motion of Pres. Smoot, Sis-
ter E. R. Snow was elected President of
the meeting, and Elder Albert Jones, Sec-
retary.
	After remarks from Sister E. R. Snow
showing the power of organization of the
Sisters to be vested in the Priesthood, as
example, by the action of the Prophet Jo-
seph in the first organization of the Relief
Societies formed by him in Nauvoo, the fol-
lowing organization was effected:
Margaret T. Smoot, President.
Mary John,
Margaret A. Cluff,       Counselors.
Caroline Daniels, Recording Secretary.
Lucy W. Kimball, Corresponding Sec'y.
After the setting apart of the sisters to
their offices by the Presidency of the Stake,
Pres. Smoot briefly addressed the meeting
on the duties devolving upon the members
of the Society, showing that with prompt
and energetic action success would attend
their efforts.
	Pres. Margaret T. Smoot and her counsel-
ors then followed with oppropriate remarks.
Pres. M. T. Smoot announced that the first
Quarterly Conference of the Relief Socie-
ties of Utah Stake of Zion would be held
in the Church, Provo City, Saturday, the
9th of November, 1878.  Meeting then ad-
journed.
	The first Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Utah Stake of Zion con-
vened on Saturday, Nov. 9, at 10 a. m.,
Pres. M. T. Smoot presiding.  On the stand
were her Counselors and Mrs. Phebe Wood-
ruff of Salt Lake City.  There were present
of the presiding-Priesthood, Pres. A. O.
Smoot and Counselors, with a number of
the Bishops and other brethren.
	After singing, Pres. A. O. Smoot made
the opening prayer.  President Mrs. Smoot
stated the meeting to be a Quarterly Con-
ference of the Utah Stake of Zion; she was
pleased to see so many of the sisters pres-
ent.  Called on the Secretary to read the
minutes of former meeting, which were
read and accepted.  The statistical and fi-
nancial report of the different societies were
then read as follows:
Number of members.............................1875
Average attendance...............................  603
Number of meetings held.....................2421
Deseret News and Juvenile Instructor..  205
WOMAN'S EXPONENT......................   89
Total amount of Receipts...........$26,756 78
Disbursements to the poor.......... 11,581 80
To Temple..................................    1,219 71
Meeting House..........................        180 25
Missionary.................................       798 26
Emigration................................        731 53
Silk...........................................         782 95
Home Industries......................        1,874 19
Books......................................         100 30
Building..................................        2,461 38
Sundry disbursements............         1,114 14
Indians...................................        71 94
Legal Fund............................               313 32
E. R. Snow--expenses to Pales-
tine........................................               111 60
Amount on hand, cash and pro-
perty, investments in Co-op
Stores, Factory, &c.................         6,238 20
Wheat on hand.................................1,189 bu.
Cocoons................................................47 lbs.
2 oz. of eggs.
Mulberry trees........................................2,089
Mulberry plantation at American Fork,
number of trees not counted.
After the reading of the reports, Pres.
Mrs. Smoot called on the Presidents of the
different Societies to speak, and each one
gave a verbal report of the Society over
which she presided.  The meeting was
well attended, and each Society repres[--]ted
with but three exceptions.  A good spirit
was in our midst.  After singing and
prayer, adjourned to Feb. 28, 1879.
CAROLINE DANIELS, Recording Sec'y.
The organization of the Tooele Co. Stake
Relief Society took place on the 20th of
Sept., 1878; the first Conference was on
Saturday, Feb. 8, 1879; convened at 10
o'clock a. m. President F. M. Lyman called
the meeting to order.  After the usual
opening exercises, reports were read from
the several wards of the Stake, showing a
very fair condition of the different branches.
There were present on the stand, from Salt
Lake City, Mrs. M. L. Horne, Mrs. Zina D.
Young and Mrs. E. S. Taylor; the meeting
was largely attended by sisters from Grants-
ville, E. T. City, Lakeview, St. Johns and 
other places.
	Mrs. Horne gave some instructions to the
Secretaries, and spoke at some length upon
the necessity for progression in woman, and
the value of these organizations in learning
us to use our faculties for the good of our-
selves and others; advised the sisters to lay
a foundation at home in the hearts of their
children for all that is good and honest and
virtuous, seek to possess the Spirit of God
under all circumstances, that we may not
be overcome, for the enemy is always on
the alert.
	Mrs. Jennette Delamare; President of
the Tooele ward, spoke of the unity that
prevailed amongst the sisters, and of the
good advice given by Pres. F. M. Lyman.
Mrs. M. A. Hunter of Grantsville, Mrs.
Anne Steel of Lakeview, and Mrs. Cowley
of E. T. City, each reported her ward.
Mrs. Zina D. Young said the sisters re-
minded her of mothers, who generally
think their own children the best in all the
world. She said we are learning to be or-
derly, so that in time we can go back into
the presence of our Father.  We come
down here and learn by contrast what
heaven is; we have pure spirits committed
to our charge, and if there was ever a time
that we need to be humble and diligent it
is now.  Made some beautiful remarks up-
on our being united and seeking to perfect
ourselves in every good word and work,
and to so train our children that in the
morning of the resurrection we may meet-
them with joy.
 Mrs. E. S. Taylor felt that there is a
marked progress in the young ladies who
attend to their meetings, and that they
will soon be competent to stand side by
side with a companion qualified and fitted
to lead them back into the presence of
God.
	In the afternoon the Young Ladies Asso-
ciation occupied part of the time in reading
reports, after which the ladies expressed
themselves highly pleased with the condi-
tion of affairs, and gave some instructions
for our future observance.
 On Sunday morning the sisters attended
the Sunday School.  In the afternoon, after
singing, prayer and admistering the Sacra-
ment, Pres. Lyman read the memorial that
has been presented to Congress by Mrs. E.
B. Wells and Mrs. Zina Young Williams;
then Counselor James Ure read an account
in the "Herald" of the good work those
ladies had done.  Reports were then read
of the Primary Association, which were
very encouraging.  President Lyman then
nominated a President for the Stake, with
two Counselors, and voted in other officers.
This business being done, Mrs. Zina D. Young
spoke with great power and wisdom upon
many things very interesting to the Saints,
suited to both men and women - things to
be in the present and the benefits to be de-
rived in the future, by which we can in-
crease in wisdom and intelligence, and
draw down the blessings of heaven upon
our heads.
	Mrs. M. I Horne rejoiced in seeing so
many of our brethren meet with us, and
felt that we all have the same object--to
build up the kingdom of God.  She spoke
of home industry, the storing of grain, and
a great many other duties binding upon the
Latter-day Saints.  Spoke of Plural Mar-
riage and the need of our minds being
stored with spiritual food, and exhorted us
to set our mark high, and to labor diligently
to attain to a Celestial exaltation, for we
shall most assuredly have to earn it.
 Mrs. E. S. Taylor advised all the young
folks not to depend on father and mother's
testimony, but not to rest until they knew
for themselves that this work is of God.
Mrs. Elizabeth Clegg said this had been a
feast indeed; hoped the sisters would prac-
tice and carry out in their lives the good
things they had heard.  M[--] M. I. Horne
sang a song of Zion.  Pres. F. M. Lyman
appointed the Second Conference to be held
in Grantsville, on the second Saturday and
Sunday in June, and desired to give God
the praise for the very remarkable good
time we had enjoyed together.
Mrs. Mary A. Hunter, of Grantsville, was
set apart for President of the Relief Society
of the Stake; Mrs. Elizabeth Clegg, of
Tooele, and Mrs. Agnes Rich, of Grants-
ville, Counselors; Mrs. Mary A. House of
Grantsville, Secretary; Mrs. Ann Tate of
Tooele, Corresponding Secretary.
Financial Report of Tooele Ward Relief
Society since its organization April 5th,
1870, to Dec. 31st, 1878:
                                    Cash                Property
To the poor..............$ 23 45..................$242 15
Emigration.............. 227 50
Temple.................... 226 85.................       4 00
Home Industries.....   13 40
Books.....................    30 00
Building.................   149 25...............      91 18
On hand.................      20 10..............     233 32
105 bushels of wheat stored,
Statistical Report.
Teachers.........................................................20
Members......................................................174
Average attendance....................................... 40
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.............................. 30
ANN TATE, Cor. Sec'y.


A gracious note from a learned young man
to his sweet-heart, how could she refuse to
mete the approval &c.—"There is to be a
gathering of the — at — in this city
on that interesting occasion, I would be su-
perbly happy to have the admissibility of
your company if it would be agreeable and
mete the approval of your attestation."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		201


TRIBUTE TO SISTER AMANDA SMITH.

Dear Sister Amanda, we meet here to-day,
With hearts full of love, a small tribute to pay
To your worth and nobility, knowing full well
That the whole of the truth only angels could tell.

		*		*		*		*		*		*

You have honored God's laws 'mid oppression and strife,
When mobs in their fury were threat'ning your life,
When husband and loved ones were slain by your side,—
You bore all in meekness, for God was your guide.

		*		*		*		*		*		*

Repeatedly driven from the homes they possessed,
You have willingly shar'd with the sorely oppressed'
Rejoicing that you were deemed worthy to go;
You said "They're my people and my faith I will show.

"I'll follow them even 'mid deserts to roam;
Where'er their abiding place there is my home."
And bravely you traveled o'er mountain and plain.
Determined through all things the right to maintain.

Then yon struggled and toiled to create a new home
Where the wild beast and savage were erst wont to roam,
Rejoicing the while that the Saints were made free
And could worship the Lord in such sweet liberty.

A blessing you've been to the daughters of light,
For your influence ever 'has been for the right;
With words of encouragement cheered many hearts,
The memory of which will never depart.

Your children you've trained in the ways of the Lord,
By example and precept you've taught them His word;
Now they're beacons in Zion, an honor to you,
Beloved by the good for integrity true.

And multiplied thousands will yet speak your praise,
For your trust and obedience to God and His ways;
Like Jesus, your motto has been and is still,
"Not my will be done, but O Father Thy will.

And now we all pray that the blessings of heaven
May rest down upon you "from morn until even,"
May your life be prolonged 'til your work is all through,
Then you be crowned queen with the righteous and true.

				With Love Sincere,
								MARY A. FREIZE.

	The 22d of February last was the Birth-
day of Sister Amanda Smith, when she
reached the goodly age of three score and
ten. A select company of her sisters went
as a surprise party to her house, and carry-
ing with them many good things, as well
as blessings for this aged sister, made the
occasion an enjoyable one.
	It is well known to the Saints that Sister
Smith has passed through much persecution
in times past, which has enfeebled her
health. Her husband and son were both
killed, and another son left for dead, at
Haun's Mill Massacre, in Missouri.


[Column 1]
THE PILGRIM MOTHERS.

WHAT MRS. BLAKE SAYS ABOUT THE NEW
ENGLAND DINNER. NO MENTION MADE
OF PLYMOUTH'S FOREMOTHERS—SENA-
TOR BLAINE'S WANT OF JUSTICE—ROSE
STANDISH IGNORED.

	There was recently given in this city a
grand dinner in honor of the landing of the
Pilgrims and the colonization of New Eng-
land. To this dinner came some two hun-
dred men. At this dinner various speeches
were made, and from the beginning to the
end of the feast there was not a word said
to indicate that women had any existence
in the world, or were in any way concerned
in that famous landing on the bleak Ply-
mouth rock two centuries and a half ago.

THE LADIES IN THE SIDE ROOM.

	It is true that the papers inform us that
after the material elements were disposed
of a few ladies were admitted into a side
room, where they remained throughout the
evening, being regarded, no doubt, by the
gentlemen present, as they sat there with
their elegant dresses and fair faces, as an
agreeable ornament of the occasion, like the

[Column 2]
flowers and the banners. How kind and
generous it was, by the way, to permit these
ladies to come "after the dinner was all
over." Doubtless, those wives and daugh-
ters of the men present eat a simple meal
at home, while their husbands and fathers
were gorging themselves with dainties,
and then meekly accepted not even the
crumbs that were cast from the table, not
even one glass of wine, but were permitted
to sit, hungry and silent, while the men
vaunted themselves and their ancestry.

IGNORING WOMEN.

	It is true that Secretary Sherman in the
course of his speech, as an illustration, said
that "the nation's faith should be like the
chastity of a woman above suspicion," it
must hardly be said, that in presence of
the gentlemen there assembled, he did not
speak of the "chastity of man," since such
a remark would probably have been looked
upon as a personal allusion by every man
present. With this single exception, how-
ever, a diligent perusal of the speeches has
failed to discover the slightest hint of the
existence, past or present, of the female
half of our people. A great deal was said
of the hardy men who colonized the land,
of the struggles of the men who built up
the country, and in reading these after din-
ner efforts one would actually think that a
race of grim masculine creatures had really
settled, populated and adorned New Eng-
land without the aid of a solitary woman.
Mr. James G. Blaine capping the climax of
forgetfulness by speaking of the hardships
endured by the men and declaring that
these "21,000 men were the progenitors" of
a great race! As if even in the matter of
increasing the census and raising families
men were quite independent of all feminine
assistance.

OUR FOREMOTHERS.

	In point of fact these 21,000 men were
hal[-] women; of the 101 persons who landed
from the Mayflower only forty-one were
men, and the hardships, the sufferings, the
devotion of these pilgrim mothers forms
the most touching part of that romance of
the landing of the pilgrims. It was the
wealthy wife of Edward Winslow whose
money enabled him to embark in the May-
flower, while the fair Rose Standish, who
left a noble home to share the hardships of
her husband, deserves a gentle remem-
brance from all who honor womanly fidelity.
Mrs. Carver, who was one of the first victims
of the heroism of seeking freedom in a for-
eign land, while to the sterling qualities of
Ann Brewster the colonists owed much of
their care and energy. Yet not one of those
heroines had the slightest mention from the
men who assembled to do honor to the
memory of that handful of brave men, and
women equally brave: women who, indeed,
sacrificed more than their husbands, inas-
much as home and home-comforts are
dearer and more important to women than
to men, while their frailer natures cause
them to suffer more in enduring hardships
than their more stalwart companions.

THE DAUGHTERS OF THE PILGRIMS.

	They were all forgotten, however, since
women count for so little in the public esti-
mation of men, though important enough
in their private lives! Not only were these
grand mothers of a noble race ignored, but
the great women of to-day, their worthy
descendants, were unmentioned. Invita-
tions were sent to all the distinguished
New England men to take part in the feast,
but the daughters of the Pilgrims were not

[Column 3]
noticed. No woman, whatever her high
achievements, had any recognition. Har-
riet Beecher Stowe and Lydia Maria Child
were not included among the representa-
tives of literature; Harriet Hosmer had no
word of honorable mention in art, and even
"Gail Hamilton," who certainly deserved a
seat beside the brother-in-law whose cause
she has so ably defended—even she had no
invitation.

ABIGAIL ADAM AND MERCY WARREN.

	The women who, in the past, by their
wealth and devotion founded the Plymouth
colony; the women who, like Abigail
Adams and Mercy Warren, adorned by the
lustre of their virtues the history of New
England; the women whose genius to-day
carries its fame to lands which never heard
of most of the men who took part in this
dinner; all were forgotten, and only as a
side show was a handful of well-dressed
ladies permitted to look on, while men ate
and drank and lauded their own and their
male ancestor's virtues. Thus did "the sons
of New England honor Forefathers' Day,"
in the very name of the feast insulting the
daughters of New England and the memory
of their foremothers.
			LILLIE DEVEREUX BLAKE.


R. S. REPORT.

	Quarterly Conference of the Relief Socie-
ties of the Juab County Stake, held Jan.
20th, 1879. Members of the Board all
present, also Patriarch J. G. Bigler, Bishop
Andrews and Elder Kendall. Meeting
opened by singing and prayer. Minutes of
last Conference read and accepted, also Fi[-]
nancial reports. The officers of the Stake
were presented and unanimously sustained,
also the local officers of Nephi, Mona and
Levan.
	Pres. Amelia Goldsbrough said: "I am
thankful for the opportunity of meeting
with you and am pleased to see so many of
my sisters here; I am also pleased that the
brethren have favored us with a visit. I
with my sisters am trying to the best of my
ability to promote the interest of the Soci-
ety. The sisters are doing a great work
feeding the poor, comforting and waiting
on the sick, clothing the living and the
dead, and I feel to bless them. I wish my
sisters who understand silk culture would
speak on that subject." Solicited the aid
of the brethren in building a granary to
store grain in. "I pray God that I may be
counted worthy to enjoy a celestial glory;
it was for that object that I came to this
land and am trying to work out my salva-
tion in connection with you all, which may
God grant for Christ's sake. Amen."
	Mrs. Eliza Sommerville, Pres. of Mona
Society, said: "I am pleased to meet with
you, and gladly embrace the opportunity of
representing the Mona Society. Since the
new organization of the Society by Pres.
Teasdale we are doing well; our meetings
are well attended and a good spirit pre-
vails."
	Bishop Andrews spoke very encouraging-
ly, and said, he would do all in his power to
aid in building the granary. Bros. Bigler,
Kendall and Allen gave some excellent in-
structions.
	Singing. Patriarch J. G. Bigler blessed
the Society, by virtue of his office, and dis-
missed the meeting.
		A. GOLDSBROUGH, Pres.
		M. PITCHFORTH, Sec'y.


202		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1879.


[Column 1]
	THE WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

	We have no wise to tire our readers by dwell-
ing too much or too ardently upon our visit to
Washington, but as we have never given a 
summary of the proceedings of the convention
in order, and as it is a subject in which women
who hold the franchise should have a deep in-
terest, we propose now to take the convention in
order, commencing with the preliminary meet-
ing of the Executive Committee, held at Mrs. B.
A. Lockwood's on Wednesday evening, Jan. 8.
At this meeting the programme for two days
and evening sessions was all arranged.  Miss
Susan B. Anthony, Chairman of Executive
Committee read the call for the Convention,
and after a thorougu discussion upon the sub-
ject in question the following committees were
appointed, &c.:  Committee on Credentials,
Matilda Joslyn Gage, Elizabeth Oakes Smith,
Caroline B. Winslow; Committee on Resolu-
tions, Sara Andrews Spencer, Matilda Joslyn
Gage, Emmeline B. Wells, Helen M. Cool[--]
and Belva A. Lockwood; Committee on Fi-
nance, Ellen Clarke Sargent, Helen M. Slo-
cum, Julia B. Dunham, Zina Young Williams
and Ellen H. Sheldon; Committee on Pro-
gramme, Susan B. Anthony, Lilliee Devereux
Blake, Marilla M. Ricker.  Morning session—
Opening address, Elizabeth Cady Stanton; re-
port of the Committe on Frinance. Afternoon ses-
sion—Speeches by Lillie Devereux Blake; Eliza-
beth Oakes Smith, Lavinia C. Dundore and
Caroline B. Winslow.  Evening session—
Speeches from Emmeline B. Wells and Susan
B. Anthony.  Friday morning—General dis-
cussion on Utah and Wyoming—United States
Rights vs. States Rights, to be discussed by
Mesdames Gage, Stanton, Williams, Smith and
others. Afternoon session—Speeches by Helen
M. Slocum, Zina Young Williams and Sara
Andrews Spencer.  Evening session—Speeches
by Belva A. Lockwood, Frederic Douglas and
Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
	This was the original programme as laid out
by the Executive Committe; and here let us
say that this committee know how to make
the most of their time, and possess in a large
degree the requisite qualifications for dispatch-
ing business in an orderly and systematic man-
ner.  Women who travel hundreds and thou-
sands of miles for the sole purpose of laboring
in these Conventions are not the ones to waste
must time in dilly-dallying.
	The first morning of the convention was
very dark, and the rain literally poured down
in torrents, the wind blew furiously, and it
seemed as if the elements had combined to-
gether to show their disrespect.  However, a
tolerably fair audience was convened in Lin-
coln Hall just before eleven o'clock.  Mrs.
Stanton, who presided with dignity and grace,
called the convention to order.  Upon the plat-

[Column 2]
form were Elizabeth Cady Stanton, of Tenna-
ny, New Jersey, President, Susan B. Anthony,
of Rochester, New York, Matilda Joslyn Gage,
Editor of the "National Citizen," from Fay-
etteville, N. Y., Sara Andrewa Spencer, of
Washington, Editor of "Woman's Words,"
Lillie Devereux Blake, of New York, connect-
ed with the "Daily Evening Telegram," Caro-
line B. Winslow, M. D., Editor of the "Alpha"
at Washington, Helen M. Slocum and Helen
M. Cooke, of New York City, Belva A. Lock-
wood, lawyer of Washington, Marilla M. Rick-
er, of New Hampshire, and Lavinia C. Dun-
dore, of Maryland, also lawyers, Elizabeth
Oakes Smith, the poet and author, from North
Carolina, Julia Brown Dunham, of Iowa, Han-
nah M. Sheppard, of Washington, Misses Julia
and Rachel Foster, of Philadelphia, Mrs. Zina
Young Williams, of Utah, and your humble
servant Mrs. E. B. Wells, Editor WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, Salt Lake City.  Many delegates
from other States and Territories were scattered
through the audience.  From time to time
during the two days' session many other dis-
tinguished ladies and a few gentlemen (woman
suffrage advocates) were seated upon the plat-
form.
	First business was the reading of the call by
Miss Anthony, with a few appropriate com-
ments.  Next Mrs. Lockwood read the list of
the committees; these were confirmed and the
programme adopted.  Mrs. Stanton prefaced
her address by saying the heavens were weep-
ing over woman's wrongs, and the weather was
in keeping with the woman's rights conven-
tion, to which we would have added and while
heaven wept for woman Old Boreas, king of
the wind, with mighty power blew a loud
blast, strong and deep, for the lords of creation.
Mrs. Stanton then proceeded to deliver her elo-
quent speech in the most easy and graceful
manner.  She seems to possess in a great de-
gree the power of pleasing her hearers, though
she tells them many plain, unvarnished truths,
yet it is all done without the least apparaent de-
sire to offend the most sensitive. Mrs. Stanton
has not in the least degree the quality of sharp-
ness, not perhaps in its usual significance, but
in the sense in which it is applied to women
speakers and lecturers.  She commenced by
saying that for eleven consecutive years women
citizens of the United States had been in the
habit of assmebling in Washington to ask that
the principles of our government may be car-
ried out, making women equal with men before
the law.
	At some future time we will publish some of
these speeches in full, that our readers may
have the benefit of the expressed opinions of
some of these leading ladies in the woman
suffrage movement.
	Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer next presented
the resolutions, which we published in our last
issue.  Upon motion the resolutions were tak-
en up separately to be discussed and voted up-
on.  Objections to some points were made by
some of the ladies and gentlemen present,
which occupied the morning hour.
	In the afternoon a much larger audience was
present.  Mrs.  Lillie Devereux Blake was the
first speaker.  Mrs. Blake is shrewd, witty and
sarcastic; she is well suited to the platform,
indeed she is perfectly at home in addressing
an audience.  Her subject was "The Propriety
of Abolishing Women."  She argued that
since woman had so often been ignored she
might as well be abelished, and all further
trouble saved by taken them to the end of the
world and dropping them off.  Judging by
present indications she thought it better to
abolish women altogether, and added that per-
haps some ingenious Yankee would invent a

[Column 3]
new kind of woman that would suit men bet-
ter; she said in this connection that the suc-
cessors of the noble progenitors of the race
spoken of by Mr. Blaine surely will be able to
hatch a new being without the help of woman.
(Loud bursts of applause.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Oakes Smith read an article
entitled "Biology and Woman's Rights." She
reads extremely well, has a very sweet, low
voice and a charmning manner; her reading was
frequently applauded.
	Mr. Frederic Douglas, by invitation of Mrs.
Stanton, made a few remarks suitable to the
occasion, the audience manifesting their plea-
sure of applauding him freely.
	Mrs. Stanton then announced as a committee
to wait upon President Hayes and inform him
of the existence of 20,000,000 women citizens in
the United States, which fact he failed to rec-
ognize in his recent message. Mrs. Elizabeth
Oakes Smith, Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage and
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells.  Miss Anthony then
made some very clever, cutting and humorous
remarks.  Mrs. Dundore then addressed the
convention. In her remarks she said hers was
a guerilla warfare, she was bound by no parties
or methods.
	Evening session.  The rain poured in tor-
rents, the wind blew fiercely, and yet the hall
was crowded in every part.  Mrs. Wells, of
Utah, was the first speaker.  Miss Anthony
followed, delivering her very celebrated lecture,
"Bread and the Ballot."  She is a very earnest
woman and impresses every one with her indi-
viduality.  She was frequently applauded, and
certainly made some strong arguments and
good hits.  Mrs. Wells made a few more re-
marks.
	Friday morning.  Mrs. Blake made a few
remarks, and introduced Mrs. Helen M. Cooke,
who read the report of the suffrage association
of New York city.
	Dr. Cora Bland then spoke on the growth of
liberty, and began with the assertion that his-
tory teaches us in all ages that man is a natural
brute. After this there was some discussion
upon the resolutions, and Mrs. Gage stated
that Pres. Hayes had mentioned one woman
in his message, because she was the widow of 
some man.
	Mrs. Spencer related the interiew with the
President when Mrs. Sargent and herself had
called upon him asking him to say a good word
for women in his first message, and again in
the second.  They then asked if the bill re-
moving the poltiical disabilities of women
should pass, would he approve it.  "Probably."
"Would he indicate his friendliness in his mes-
sage?"  He could not tell; it was a huge ques-
tion, requiring great deliberation.  Mrs. Spen-
cer concluded by saying, "You see he did not
know what to say."  Whereupon Miss Antho-
ny remarked that men didn't know which
was the safe side of the fence.
	Hon. A. G. Riddle, a Washington lawyer,
then addressed the convention; his subject was
suffrage, and he spoke to the point.  He closed
by saying that the emancipation of woman
was as inevitable as any other fixed fact that is
foreshadowed.
	Mrs. Stanton made some remarks upon her
labors at the beginning of the movement; and
her husband's protest, Lucretia Mott, the sweet
Quaker lady, saying, "Now, Elizabeth, don't
thee make the whole thing ridiculous by say-
ing that the women want to vote, I beg thee."
She asked Fred Douglas to urge the resolutions
as she had not then learned to put three words
together before an audience, and the resolu-
tion was carried.
	Marshall Douglas then came forward and
gave a brief account of the first woman's con


vention. At the close he asked what he would
have been without the ballot. By it he was
made Marshall of the the District of Columbia,
and then recited in an impressive manner a 
poem upon liberty. Mrs. Zina Young Williams
of Utah was then introduced, and proceeded
to address the audience. Mrs. Wells and Mrs.
Spencer, each made a few remarks and the
morning session adjourned.
			To be continued. [handwritten] E. B. [---]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		203


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

<waitd upon="" herself,="" keeping="" no="" servant,="" choosing="" to="" do="" her="" own="" work..'="" she="" has="" ad-="" ministered="" as="" preistess="" for="" many="" years="" in="" the="" “bold’s="" house.'="" travels’from="" place="" 'pface?fas="" duty="" calls="" attend="" meetings="" and="" conferences.="" <?f="" the,="" sisters="" all="" various="" ijocalitles="" territory,="" .never="" refusing..="" when="" it="" isposlblejfor="" go.="" .="" we="" feel="" con-="" aden="" tour="" will="" join="" withms.="" publicly="" .r="" expressing="" our="" gratitude="" this="" dearly)="" beloved="" r="" sister,="" wishing="" more-years="" of="" -i="" -="" usefulness="" and.="" actives="" work="" as;="" a="" leader="" among="" women="" tha="" batter-day'saints.="" y-="" onnqbsdayfeb.="" 27,we="" ahendecllhe="" joint="" g="" conference,="" earmipgton="" of,="" young="" men’s="" mutual="" improvent="" associations,="" badles="" improvement="" associations="" davis="" co.="" stake,="" in-="" company="" with="" pres-="" eliza="" r.="" snow="" elder="" junlps="" f.="" wells.="" the.young="" reports="" w.erp="" mad?,="" morning="" roberts,="" who="" presides-over="" y.="" m.="" i.="" a.="" that="" conducted="" meeting;="" there="" wasinot="" large="" attendance.="" after="" singing="" prayer="" jrom="" va-="" rious="" branches="" association="" were="" read="" by="" i="" secretary.="" presidents="" several="" reported="" verbally="" condition="" pf="" their="" respective="" then="" junius="" wells="" president="" central="" com-="" mittee="" x.="" a.,="" occupied="" time="" an:="" interesting="" discourse,="" giving1="" instruction="" exhorting="" peoplp.="" is="" very="" pleasing="" speaker,="" an;excellent="" :="" v‘voice,="" good="" flow="" language;="" in,="" short="" he="" winning,="" attractive="" graceful="" speaking.="" afternoon="" mra.nancya,clark?8uper-="" intendent="" yoiihg="" ladies="" x)avi3,="" co.,="" presided.="" county="" report;.,="" "="" officers,="" aggregate....="" .,.,..63="" -members..................="" ,......,..728="" (total,.[="" 791"="" average="" aupndancer="" tayerage="" hot="" reported.="" are="" generally="" under="" direction="" a;programme="" committee.="" reading="" mostly="" consists="" lh="" standard="" church="" works,="" woman’s="" exponent="" an="" d:juye-="" nile="" instructor.="" oho="" library="" id="" owned="" tiie="" ladies.="" 2207="" bible="" verses="" have="" been="" tbp-ihelnbers="" during="" quarter...="" ;kf'="" v.r="" 1="" donated="" a'ccuinulidedt.!,,..="" j(="" onhanci....',....="" -29="" 50="" '‘i="" l="" ja="" -j0="" iriopcrtyio="" u="">	RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE.—The secretaries
of the various branches of the Society of this
Stake, are respectfully requested to send in
their reports to the EXPONENT Office before
the 15th of March, 1879. By order of

			M. ISABELLA HORNE, President.
			E. HOWARD, Sec'y.

	NOTICE TO SECRETARIES.—The Relief Socie-
ty is increasing in importance and usefulness
in the work of the Latter days, and for this
reason it should be the ambition of every sec-
retary in every ward in this Stake to prepare
and furnish to the Relief Society Secretary of
of the Stake, proper and business-like reports
invariably four days before the Quarterly Con-
ference, so as to enable her to prepare and cor-
rect her report to present before the general
Quarterly Conference. It seems impossible to 
do so when several of the wards are not heard
from, which has been the case heretofore.
	It is very important that the Secretaries at-
tend to this responsible duty. They will please
send their reports for the last quarter address-
ed to the Relief Society Secretary for the
Stake, in care of Mrs. Wells, Editor of WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT, before the 15th of March.
						E. HOWARD, Sec'y.

MISS ELIZA R. Snow, President of Latter-day
Saint Women's Organizations left Salt Lake
City Wednesday morning, Feb. 5th, to visit
the different organizations of Weber Co. and
assist in organizing Y. L. M. I. A. and Pri-
mary Associations in various places.
	Ogden has recently been divided into four
wards, and Miss Snow, while there, assisted
the Bishops in their respective wards and Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, President of the Relief Socie-
ties in Weber Co. to organize Y. L. M. I. and 
Primary Associations in each of these wards.
Miss Snow and Mrs. Richards afterwards visit-
ed Lynne, Marrlott, Riverdale, Mound's Fort,
Huntsville and West Weber; and assisted the
Bishops in organizing a Primary Association
in each of these respective settlements. At
Riverdale these sisters also assisted the Bishop
in organizing a Y. L. M. I. A. Miss Snow 
was absent over two weeks, and held during
that time, seventeen meetings, at all of which
she occupied considerable time in speaking,
exhorting and giving instruction to the sisters
in their various duties and callings; her visits
are of great benefit, and her age, experience,
and her illustrious example of Christian life
strengthen the force of her advice and have a 
bearing upon all her labors, which 
makes it more effective. Our sisters should
uphold and sustain "Sister Eliza" as she is af-
fectionatly designated, that she may live long
to direct and counsel the mothers in Israel, and
daughters of Zion. On the 21st day of Jan.
she attained to the advanced age of seventy-
five, her life stretching over three quarters of 
a century, still active mentally and physisic-
ally, waits upon herself, keeping no servant,
choosing to do her own work. She has ad-
ministered as Preistess for many years in the
"Lord's House." She travels from place to 
place, as duty calls her to attend the meetings

[Column 2]
and conferences of the sisters in all the various
localities in the Territory, never refusing
when it is po[-]sible for her to go. We feel con-
fident our sisters will join with us in publicly
expressing our gratitude to this dearly beloved
sister, and wishing her many more years of
usefulness and active work as a leader among
the women of the Latter-day Saints.

	ON THURSDAY, Feb. 27, we attended the joint
Conference in Farmington of Young Men's
Mutual Improvent Associations and Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations
of Davis Co. Stake, in company with Pres.
Eliza R. Snow and Elder Junius F. Wells.
The young men's reports were made in the
morning. Elder Roberts, who presides over
the Y. M. M. I. A. in that Stake, conducted
the meeting; there was not a large attendance.
After singing and prayer reports from the va-
rious branches of the Association were read by
the Secretary. The presidents of the several
branches reported verbally the condition of
their respective Associations, and then Elder
Junius F. Wells, President of Central Com-
mittee of Y. M. M. I. A., occupied the time in
an interesting discourse, giving instruction
and exhorting the young people. Elder Wells
is a very pleasing speaker, has an excellent
voice, a good flow of language, in short he is
winning, attractive and graceful in speaking.
In the afternoon Mrs. Nancy A. Clark, Super-
intendent of the young ladies of Davis Co.,
presided. County report;
Officers, in the aggregate..........................  63
Members...... ..............................................728
								      ——
Total								791
Average attendance and average meetings not
reported. Meetings are generally conducted
under the direction of a programme committee.
The reading mostly consists in reading standard
Church works, WOMAN'S EXPONENT and Juve-
nile Instructor. One library is owned by the
young ladies. 2207 Bible verses reported to
have been read by the members during the
quarter.

Donated and accumulated......................$476 54
Disbursed...................................................  447 17
On Hand.....................................................     29 50
Property.....................................................     13 25
Wheat.........................................................124 bu.

The Primary Association of Farmington was
represented by its President, Mrs. Aurelia S.
Rogers. The presidents of Young Ladies' So-
cieties each reported verbally, and the Super-
intendent spoke and prophesied many good
things to the young in Zion. Pres. E. R.
Snow made some truly good remarks, and we
talked a little about our visit to Washington.


OBITUARY

	At Marriottsville, Weber County, U. T. Feb.
4th, 1879. of Typhoid fever. Annie daughter
of Simon F. and Turbor Halvorson aged 17
years. Sister Annie was a girl of amiable dis-
position, possessing excellent traits of charac-
ter, she was a teacher in our Sunday School,
and an efficient member of the Y. L. M. I. A.
She was above reproach, and was respected by
all. The funeral services were conducted by
Bishop James Richie and Counselors at the
residence of her parents in a very impressive
manner, after which almost the entire ward
followed her rem[-]ins to their last resting
place, in Ogden City Cemet[-]ry. Her death
has cast a gloom [-]ver our neighborhood. May
she rest in peace.—Com.

	Died at Marriottsville, Weber County, U. T.
19th of Jan. 1879. Mrs. Martha Wayman aged


89 years 7 months and 11 days. Deceased was
born June 8th, 1789 at Fedstanton Hunting-
don shire England. She was baptized in the
year 1850, and from that time her house was
ever open to the Elders of our faith, feeding
and lodging them, and assisting to the utmost
of her ability to advance the cause of truth.
She came to Utah in 1868, and has finished her
earthly career in good faith, and buoyant hopes
of a glorious resurrection. Her remains are en-
tered in the Ogden City Cemetery.

	DIED, at her residence South Cottonwood,
of consumption, after a lingering illness, Mary
Jane, wife of Robert Maxfield; and daughter
of Jane Spencer and Daniel S. Cahoon. De-
ceased was born in Nauvoo, Ill., on the 8th da[-]e
of February A. D. 1845, and died on the 17th
of February, 1879, leaving a husband, two chil-
dren and numerous relatives and friends to
mourn her loss. She was a member of the Re-
lief Society, a faithful wife, an affectionate
mother, and a true saint. In the family circle
her example was worthy of imitation, and her
name will ever be held in honorable remem-
brance by all who knew her.
		MARY CAHOON.


ANY ONE ordering the "National Citizen"
with "Woman's Words" will be sent both
papers one year, postage paid, for $1.50,
thus saving fifty cents on the two subscrip-
tions.
	MINORITY REPORT ON SIXTEENTH
AMENDMENT.—The minority report of Sen-
ate Committee on Privileges and Elections
in favor of a sixteenth amendment to the
Constitution, protecting women citizens in
the right of suffrage, was made Saturday
morning, February 1st, by Hon. George F.
Hoar, of Mass. It had been waiting only
for the signature of Senator Cameron, of
Wisconsin, who was absent.
	The report will therefore be presented to
the Senate the first week in February. It
occupies about thirty-five pages of manu-
script, and will probably make about ten
pages of octavo print. It will be electro-
typed at the Government Printing Office,
and, with Senator Wadleigh's adverse re-
port, will be added to the pamphlet of ar-
guments before Senate Committee on Privi-
leges and Elections in behalf of a sixteenth
amendment by delegates to the Tenth
Washington Convention of the National
Woman Suffrage Association, January 11th
and 12th, 1878.
	The volume will thus consist of about
sixty pages, and will be standard material
for carrying on Woman Suffrage campaigns
until the victory is won.
	The friends of woman suffrage cannot
more effectually advance the interests of
women than to send money to the Treasurer
of the National Association, Mrs. Ellen
Clarke Sargent, 1733 De Sales street, Wash-
ington, D. C., to print this material. While
ten thousand copies could be immediately
used to advantage in preparing friends of
woman suffrage for an intelligent advance
upon the Forty-sixth Congress, for want of
means only one thousand copies can now be
printed. Thus at every step of this reform
want of money bars the work. Single
printed copies of the minority[-]report only
will be mailed to any one who encloses a
stamped envelope, properly addressed to
the applicant, to Mrs. Sara Andrews Spen-
cer, Spencerian Business College, Washing-
ton, D. C., after February 20th.—Ex.


204		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MRS. C. FOWLER WELLS.

	The many instances which the world af-
fords of women who have excelled in art,
science, literature and business, prove be-
yond the possibility of doubt, that clear
perceptions, masterly intellects and execu-
tive ability are not peculiarly masculine
qualities.
	The lady whose sketch is here given has
not only threaded her way successfully amid
the intricacies and difficulties of a new and 
undeveloped science, but has competed fa-
vorably with the best class of men in con-
ducting a large and complicated business.
	Mrs. Wells is the sister of O. S. and L.
N. Fowler, the distinguished phrenologists,
and is herself, one of the ablest exponents
of that science the age has yet produced.
	Had it been a chemical laboratory which
her brothers established, or anything bear-
ing the stamp of antiquity upon it, her taste
in building up from penury a successful
business would have been much lighter
than it has been with the much questioned
science.
	The Fowler brothers established their
Phrenological Cabinet in New York in 1835.
They opened a branch office in Philadelphia,
and commenced the publication of their
journal in that city in 1838.
	They gave their attention largely to the 
development of their new science and the
editing of their magazine; while the sub-
ject of this sketch, who joined them in 1837,
looked carefully after the details of the
business.
	In 1842 they removed to New York, the
senior partner coming in advance, leaving
only a young and inexperienced woman at
that time to attend to the shipment of goods
and the closing up of the details of busi-
ness in Philadelphia.
	On her arrival in New York she found
her brother seriously ill; and before he
could again attend to business their stereo-
type plates and many other things belong-
ing to their peculiar business were seized,
and would have been sold at auction; as
would also the copyrights, but for the pre-
sence of mind and business sagacity of their
feminine business manager, who averted
the calamity.
	A year later she had occasion to leave
New York for a few weeks, and on her re-
turn found their office placarded "to let."
Before night, she had the obnoxious placard
removed from the door, and papers made
out leasing the premises for five years.
Handbills were immediately printed and
distributed, announcing lectures every eve-
ning is the same building, with both public
and private examinations of heads; and at
the end of a week when they counted their
cash, they had two hundred dollars above
expenses.
	Four other times in the history of the 
business has the office been about to close,
when her business sagacity and quiet deter-
mination have averted the calamity, and
under her management, as is a well-known
fact, has finally been built up one of the 
most successful publishing houses of the 
city; there, being not more than six that
rival it, either in capital or the number and 
extent of their publications.
	At the beginning of the panic in 1873 the 
firm was wholly free from any business en-
tanglements; but of course no publishing
house could meet the financial disasters of
the last five years and not suffer loss. They
still occupy one of the handsomest stores
on Broadway and are entirely solvent.
These details of business have been en-
tered into with some minuteness to show
how woman's skill has, in thousands of in-

[Column 2]
stances, saved a waning business, and how
it might have done so in many more were
they not so effectually ruled out of business
departments by the domination of sex on
the one hand, and their own easy subjection
on the other.
	Mrs. Wells was born in Cohocton, N. Y.,
August 14, 1814, making her now in her
sixty-fifth year.
	The remarkable skill with which she has
carried youthful vigor clear across life's me-
ridian, and maintained both the mental and
physical strength of early life even to that
advanced period is a strong argument in fa-
vor of the hygienic system taught through 
their extensive library.
	Another practical demonstration of the
effect of correct habits is found in the fact
that Mrs. Wells was born of a consumptive
mother, wh[-] died of that lingering disease
when she was only five years of age. But
the introduction of the water cure treat-
ment, a thorough system of hygienic living
or some unknown cause; have averted the
usual consequences which are so apt to fol-
low in such cases; and not one of the Fowl-
er family have since died of consumption
or ever shown a symptom thereof. The
youngest members are now over forty, and
all are hale, hearty and youthful for their
years. Mrs. Wells says that she expects to 
live till she is ninety, in the enjoyment of 
all her faculties.
	At the age of thirty she was married to
Samuel R. Wells, who, the year following,
became a partne[-] in the firm. His atten-
tion was first attracted to phrenology by ob-
serving a chart that had been marked for a
friend by Charlotte Fowler.
	He sought out the lady, made her acquain-
ance, and from that time became a devoted
disciple of the new science.
	Her very happy domestic life, and sym-
metrical development of character, show
that it is not fatal to woman's happiness to
remain single a few years longer than they
are generally wont.
	The "Phrenological Journal" has been
from the beginning uncompromising in its
advocacy of woman's equality. For a num-
ber of years before the Seneca Falls Con-
vention in '48, it had ably and fearlessly
sought for woman's recognition, an equality
of rights in all things. From that time
till the prosent never has a volume appeared
which has not contained one or more special
article looking to the elevation and better
education of woman.
	Mrs. Wells was one of the original foun-
ders of the Woman's Homeopathic College
of New York, and for twelve years one of 
its trustees.
	While she has acted a conspicuous part
in all the public enterprises of the day af-
fecting woman's advancement, by far the
larger share of her benevolence has con-
sisted in private charities. It has been her
aim to truly benefit those whom she be-
lieved worthy of help, without making any
public exhibition of either their necessities
or her own benevolence.
	Many a woman who reads this sketch
will remember with gratitude when the
kindness and benevolence of Mrs. Wells
was just the needed link in the chain that
enabled them to reunite their shattered for-
tunes, or the added plank that bridged
some fearful chasm of financial or social
disaster. Her labors have always been of
the unassuming kind, but whatever she has
put her hand to has been done with a quiet
determination that has seldom known de-
feat. In April, 1875, her husband, after a 
brief illness of but few days, was taken
from this world, in what seemed the prime
of a useful life.

[Column 3]
	Both of her brothers had previously with-
drawn from the firm, and thus was left en-
tirely to her care the responsibilites of a 
large and complicated business, and that,
too, at the most trying period of all classes
of commercial enterprise ever known in
the world's history.
	The ability with which she has conducted
its affairs amid the financial breakers that
have wrecked so many business crafts on
every hand, attest her skill, and add an-
other gem to woman's coronet of praise.—
C. A. Blodgett.					Ex.


EVENTS OF THE PRESENT DAY.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	We live in an age of wonderful events,
whether the people will believe it or not;
the vision of some is very opaque. they can
not or will not see anything very uncom-
mon in the marvelous events of the 19th
century--others, who watch the "signs of
the times," whose eyes are open, because
the vision of their mind is clear, have the
key that unlocks the cypher! and many
there are of that number. We hear of
"wars and rumors of wars," of fire and pes-
tilence, yes, of the most fearful kind. We
have seen empires overturned and sove-
reigns dethroned, and a few months ago
the Queen of England made Empress of
India! Though she has long had immense
possessions there, no one dreamed of
such a thing. Thirty years ago a musing,
far-seeing young mind, hid up in compara-
tive obscurity, wrote a book; he suggests a
policy for the then young Queen of Eng-
land; he elaborates the subject, shows a
neccessity for it. The book is not read by
the mass, it is "too dry, too visionary;" the
writer shows he believes in present revela-
tion, that he waits, watches for it! And
who will believe such nonsense in this en-
lightened age? He wrote other books, they
were watched and criticized by the "Litera-
ti;" there is something in them so unique,
so original, minds of strong calibre feel
there is in them an under current, a gulf-
stream if you please, that the common mind
does not see or realize; the policy he sug-
gests in his first book, thirty years ago, is
in these words: "Let the Queen of England
collect a great fleet; let her stow away all
her treasures, bullion, gold plate and pre-
cious arms, be accompanied by all her court
and chief people, and transfer the seat of
her Empire from London to Delhi! There
she will find an immense Empire ready
made, a first rate army and a large revenue;
we will acknowledge the Empress of India
as our Suzeram, and secure for her the
Levantine coast."
	He now leaves book making; he works
to become a Statesman; he seeks to enter
Parliament, he meets with great opposition;
he speaks on the Hustings; he attracts all 
ears; his language is glowing, fervid and
electrifying, his voice magnetic, and he is
felt to be a rising planet! He speaks in the
House of Commons, he is ridiculed; his
hearers forget to be gentlemen. He rises
and is put down, rises and is put down; at
last he calmly sits down, saying: "Gentle-
man, you will not hear me now, but a time
is coming when you shall hear me." Through
all he rises--he is the first of his race that
ever entered Parliament--he rises higher,
higher, till he stands Premier of England,
with the entire confidence of his Sovereign!
He stands to-day a power behind the Throne,
God being the power behind both the
Throne and the man. His first grand act
is to realize his dream of thirty years ago!


He proposes to the nation to make the
Queen Empress of India, as a necessary
policy to meet the times.  The influential
part of the nation, as usual, oppose the
measure—they feel it will compromise their
honor—but it is carried.  Queen of Eng-
land and Empress of India are her titles to-
day!  This is only a tithe of all he has ac-
complished in staying the hand of Prussia,
without shedding one drop of blood.  Is
not all this a subject for meditation when
we ponder on present events?
	Now I will come nearer home.  If the
Lord will help me, I will at some future
time try to give a brief poetical history of
the work of the Latter days.  At present I
wish to look at an event which twenty, per-
haps ten years ago would have been thought
impossible, and by some it would have
been ridiculed; to-day it is an event of the
past, and seems to have been all in the pro-
gramme.  It was mooted something in this
way: Mrs. Spencer, one of the prominent
women in the Woman Suffrage movements
wrote to Mrs. E. B. Wells, imperatively:
"Come and take your hitherto vacant chair
in the Woman's Suffrage Convention; come,
or our words concerning you will fall to the
ground. Come!"  Accordingly, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, accompanied by Mrs. Zina Young Wil-
liams, went and took part in the Convention
at Washington.  They go! are received by
the ladies as sisters.  President Hayes also
receives them with all the kindness and
affability of the true gentlemen; he talked
freely with them, and said he wished them
to put their statements in writing, and
let him have it, that he might not for-
get in the press of business all they had
told him.  He was most kind, saying:  "Tell
me what I can do for you."  The "Golden
Sceptre" was indeed held out to them at
every interview, and he himself fetched
Mrs. Hayes and introduced them to her,
and left her with them, not fearing the
least contamination, or perversion of her
mind or morals from association with the
women from Utah, and both plural
wives!  All honor to the President of the
United States of America and his true-
hearted wife! one day he will rejoice that
his feelings as a man and a gentleman over-
came all prejudice and bigotry, and enabled
him to receive them as sister women by
their brother man.  Mrs. Hayes also had
the very spirit of her husband, and treated
them with all the freedom and liberality
which ever springs from true nobility.  She
took them over the Executive Mansion
herself, with all ease and affability.  God
bless Mrs. Hayes, and may He grant her
her hearts desires in righteousness before
Him!
	Is not this an event, my sisters, in the
annals of our Church?  To me there is more
in it than meets the eye of those who look
only upon the surface of things.  God works
by instruments, sometimes the weakest as
a common observer would think, but in His
hands they become powerful, because they
are content to be "as clay in the hands of
the potter."  God will make such mighty.
They were received with the kindest
deference, and obtained interviews with
men of influence; this was true polite-
ness, for they had come from afar to
present the cause of their people.  They
spoke freely and I have no doubt wise-
ly and well; they have left an impres-
sion that God will daguerotype on the minds
of the influential men of Congress, nd
also on the women of that august assembly,
which will have a bearing, and I hope make
them forbearing.  My sisters, fear not!
Let us be prayerful and watchful--God is
with us; yes, the God of Jacob, is our refuge!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MEMORIAL.

TO THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENT-
	TATVIES, BY THE LADIES' ANTI-POLYGA-
	MY SOCIETY OF SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	The Ladies of the Anti-Polygamy Society
of Utah respectfully represent to Congress
that while Delegate Cannon and represent-
atives of the Mormon Church in Washing-
ton are petitioning for amnesty and promis-
ing obedience for their people to the anti-
polygamy law of 1862, the expressions and
actions of the Mormons in Utah give no
evidence that this promise will be fulfilled.
	Apostle John Taylor, president of the
Mormon Church, in an interview with a
Federal official, published by himself, de-
clared that the revelation enjoining poly-
gamy came direct from God; that it is his
religion, and that neither Congress nor the
Supreme Court has any right to interfere
with his religious views, and in doing so
they are violating their most sacred obliga-
tions. He said further that the Supreme
Court decision would have no effect except
to unite, confirm and strengthen the Mor-
mons in their faith. And this same Taylor,
when in France about the year 1853, he
having at that time five wives, denied in
toto the existence of polygamy among the
Mormons, and in order to the greater pub-
licity to this untrue statement, employed a
French lady, Madame Brouse by name, to
translate his denial of polygamy into French,
and then circulated it in pamphlet form
throughout the country. In this spirit the
Mormon people concur, and it is a matter
of common notoriety that they are contract-
ing unlawful marriages the same as ever,
that John W. Young has married Miss A. Wil-
kins, of this city, for his fifth wife since the
decision of the Supreme Court in the Rey-
nolds case was published; that James Welch
of Coalville, Summit county, has married
Ellen Vaughan for a second wife; that John
White, of East Mill Creek, Salt Lake coun-
ty, married Mrs. Samuels (a widow) for a
third wife, all since the decision above re-
ferred to.
	"The Deseret News," the official organ
of the Mormon Church, casts reproach upon
the Supreme Court, by declaring that the
decision was rendered under popular pres-
sure, by judges who are feeble-witted and
cloudy-minded; and in the ward meeting
houses, the most violent diatribes have
been uttered against the judges and the
judgment of the highest court of the land.
	We therefore respectfully ask Congress,
during its present session, so to amend the
act of 1862 that it may become operative by
making the general reputation of conjugal
relations, proof of marriage and living to-
gether in polygamy, to constitute the of-
fence. Unless the prosecuting officer of the
Government is enabled by some such appro-
priate legislation to prosecute and punish
offenders against the above named law, we
feel warranted in saying no regard will be
paid to the statute; polygamous marriages
will be as numerous as ever, and the de-
luded Mormons will be encouraged in their
violation of law from the religious belief
that the Lord has interposed in the behalf
of His people by confounding the designs
of their enemies.
	By resolution the Secretary was directed
to forward a copy of the above to Senator
Edmunds, with a request to present them
in the Senate, and a duplicate copy to Hon.
Martin Maginnis of Montana, with a re-
quest to offer them in the House, also to
send them by telegraph to the newspapers
of the United States for publication.
	The Secretary read a number of letters
from ladies and ministers in different parts
of the country, reporting the progress of
the work being done in their respective
localities, and giving assurance of the
hearty co-operation the ladies here are
meeting with from their sisters in the
States.		SARAH E. COOK, Pres.
			VICTORIA REED, Vice Pres.
			MARIAN CHISLETT, Sec'y.


GENEROSITY.

	READ AT THE Y. L. M. I. A.

	As generosity is the subject before the
house, for discussion this evening[-] I will
commence by saying that generosity[-] not
only consists in being open-handed but in
exhibiting those qualities which are prop-
erly regarded as belonging to noble minded
men and women. It is not always those
who are the most liberal in giving, but my
idea is that those who can endure the most
privations and hardships[-] taking every
thing for the best, and being contented
with what they have to endure are truly
generous. Look at our Heavenly Father
how magnanimous He is, pouring blessings
down upon all, with-holding nothing which
is for our good, nothing which is truly
beneficial. Certainly there are times when
we feel down[-]hearted and think we are not
very liberaly blessed with his holy spirit;
but all our trials and harships are for the
best. God has a purpose in all things, and
He sometimes allows stumbling-blocks to
be put in our way to try us, for[-] if we are
never tried with any thing and[-]our paths
are always flowery, of course we would
feel much better, but could not have the
same experience; God has not willed it so,
He tries us every day to see what we can
stand, some few bear their trials nobly, and
others sink under them. I do not profess
to show the magnanamity of God, but mere-
ly speak of it in my humble way, and as
generosity is our subject—I do not think
we can find a more generous, or just person
for example than Joseph Smith. Look at
the trials and hardships that this noble per-
son passed through for this people, and to
show them the right way, the greatness of
his mind, the elevation and dignity of his
soul, how he encountered dangers and trou-
ble with tranquility and firmness. He dis-
dained injustice and meanness, and his no-
ble spirit prompted him to sacrifice all for
this same noble object. And then our be-
loved President Brigham Young took up
his great work and followed in his footsteps,
giving generously ta the poor; helping and
blessing all who were in distress and need-
ful of his attentions and benevolence; nev-
er faltering until he was called to join his
brother, Joseph Smith, in the land of the
blessed, where we all sooner or later will be
called to go; that is if we prove faithful to
the end. When I picture the narrow, con-
tractedness and selfishness of our souls
with the nobleness and generosity of these
great persons it causes me to shudder.
While we are speaking of the generosity of
those great persons, we must not forget our
kind and generous hearted parents who
toil night and day striving to give us ad-
vantages, which some day will exalt us
among the[--]number of great men and wo-
men. How many [-]s yaung people now
could endure what our parents have been
called to go through in times past and
never falther, but with untiring diligence
stem the tide and at last win the victory.
I am afraid not very many, I think after
we go through as much as they have been
called to pass through, and preform as
many noble and generous acts and never
falter it will cause us all to shout "Eureka."
		MISS DESERET BRINGHURST.


206		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
		AMERICAN LITERATURE.

	Attention is drawn anew to this subject
by the very recent History of American
Literature by Moses Coit Tyler, Professor
of English Literature in the University of
Michigan.
	The book cannot be characterised as a
great work, yet it supplies a long felt want.
The authors of whose life and writings
these two volumes give an account, are for
the most part little known, if at all, by the
great reading public, but will be known in
future, not through their own writings but
through the copious extracts from their
works given in those volumes. This is one
of the merits of the "History". Professor
Tyler has had access to the most valuable
libraries of our country,—not merely to our
large public libraries, but to those private
libraries where only is to be found our earli-
est American Literature. These two vol-
umes cover the period from 1607 to 1765.
This fact suggests the very important ques-
tion. Have we a distinctively American
literature covering this period, or must we
mark a later date for the birth of our liter-
ature?
	Unlike the early literature of England,
we cannot point with the pride of ancestry
to our Chaucer, the Ballads of Robin Hood
the vision of Piers the Ploughman and
others. We must remember that at the
date which Professor Tyler has placed the
birth of our literature, England was at the
summit of her literary fame, was in the
glory of the Elizabethan age. Shakespeare
had written most of his plays; had become
proprietor of the Globe Theatre; was now a
respected squire, and lived in gentlemanly
competency, riding in his own carriage. At
this period Elizabeth had been dead four
years; Francis Bacon had become solicitor
general, and thirteen years after gave to
the world his Noverm Organan; Rare
Ben Jonson had written "Every Man in
his Humor" nine years before; Beaumont
and Fletcher were young men seeking pres-
ent fame and acquiring future fame; Milton
was born a year after, he whose name was
to last so long as lasts the English language.
	America can at this period present no
such names, nor since. We think that the
succeeding volumes of Professor Tyler's
mark will be the history of American liter-
ature. The subjects that the hundred
years of our national existance will present
are the cues which create the same lan-
guage as the literature of England but a dif-
ferent type of mind and manner. A. L. F.


THE BILL generally known as the Lock-
wood Bill, but technically as the Legal Disa-
bilities Bill, recently passed the House and
Senate. This bill has won a victory for
women, and after this let women be encour-
aged, however adverse circumstances may
be, for difficulties and obstructions are giv-
ing way before endurance, perseverance,
persistency and tenacity of purpose. The
bill provides that "any woman, a member
in good standing of the highest court in
any State or Territory, or of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, for three
years, shall be admitted to practice in the
United States Supreme Court." The bill
passed at last without amendment, 40 to 20.
Senator Sargent, who has been an able and
magnanimous friend of woman suffrage,
has been untiring in his efforts in advocat-
ing the passage of this bill. This noble
friend and defender of the rights of all
women merits the highest approbation and
esteem of all who desire to see woman
stand free and equal beside her brother
man.


THE NEXT annual convention of the Na-
tional Woman Suffrage Association is to be
held in May in St. Louis, Mo. This city
has been chosen because of the proposition
there to license the Social Evil law. The
suffrage women consider, and all deep-
thinking women surely will agree with
them, that this licensing of vice by govern-
ment is an infringement upon the liberty of
all women. Wherever this law has been
enforced, instead of securing the object for
which it was (professedly) designed it "has
had most oppressive moral and physical
tyranny over woman. As far as women
are concerned it reverses that rule of law
which holds all persons innocent until they
are proven guilty, for under it all women
are held guilty until proven innocent." The
call for the Convention made through
the "National Citizen and Ballot Box" says,
"Now let every Western and North West-
ern suffrage woman prepare herself to be in
some way represented at this great meeting,
either personally or by delegate from her
society	No more important convention
has ever been held than this will be; none
in which all women of whatever shade of
opinion are so deeply concerned.


[Column 1]
MULBERRY TREES.
FOR SALE at the Forest Farm, from Six cents each
and upwards.
☞ Please forward all orders to
			MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
					Salt Lake City.
Orders by mail or otherwise are promptly attended to.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap, -	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc)	-	-	35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	-	35 Cents each.
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

[Column 2]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
AT
TEASDEL'S

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Salesroom to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

John Taylor, Pres't.		Wm. Jennings, Vice-Pres't.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N.
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City. All those who desire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time purchase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliab e quality at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders to
WM. H. ROWE,
		SUPERINTENDENT.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
