Vol. 7.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DEC. 1, 1878.	No. 13.


[For the EXPONENT.
			TO BOYSY.

		BY HANNAH T. KING.

O Boysy, I love thee, and yet we must part,
Dear Pet of the Household, all linked to my hea[--]
And a cycle of Time must revolve ere we meet,
With embraces and kisses each other to greet.

But we never shall meet as we have met, again,
When I was your refuge in joy or in pain,
To boyhood, from babyhood, then you'll have grown,
I shall feel quite unable my Boysy to own.

I shall often recall all your sweet winning ways
Since I gazed on your face as an infant of days,
And I've seen you expand as a rose on a stem,
In beauties I never shall witness again!

No, you never can be all you have been to me,
That sweet phase of life is now no more to be;
You'll have grown, and outgrown all the pure infant love
That you lavished upon me as wealth from above.

It ever is thus! how we grow and outgrow
All that once made life dear, both in joy and in woe!
But the cycles of Time revolve over our head,
And much that we once loved is distant, or dead!

Come kiss me, my loved one—yes, kiss me again,
My heart is full heavy—my love is a pain;
The love all so pure that you gave unto me
You'll outgrow as your babyhood passes from thee.

Is it weakness to mourn o'er the love of a child?
A baby of years? Is it simple and wild?
I know not, I care not, all I feel at this time,
Is the thought that he's gone! and can no more be mine

I thought that in this way I never again
Should suffer my love to work into a pain,
But I find I must love, yes, love on to the end,
For Love is of God, and the poor Mortal's friend.

God keep you, my sweet one! I see thee depart,
But I know I shall live in that fond little heart,
Till the wing of old Time overshadows the view,
Then 'twill seem like a dream both to me and to you!

So passes the lives of the beings of earth—
Shade and sunshine flit o'er them from earliest birth;
But keep the heart young, and love on to the end,
For Love is of God, and the poor Mortal's friend.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 11, 1878.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN'S MASS MEETING.

		THEATRE, SALT LAKE CITY.

	Pursuant to a call published in our last
issue, a mass meeting of the women of this 
city convened in the Salt Lake Theatre, on
Saturday, Nov. 16th, at 2 o'clock p.m., to 
protest against the interference of the Anti-
Polygamy crusade with their rights and
privileges as American citizens. The large
and commodious building, which will ac-
commodate 2,000 people, was crowded in
every part except the third circle, and even
that was mostly filled. There must have
been at least 1,500 ladies. It was an inspir-
ing spectacle to gaze upon; such an one as
is seldom seen. No gentlemen were ad-
mitted except reporters. Elder George F.
Gibbs, shorthand reporter, was on the plat-
form by special request, to make a full and
complete report of the proceedings. Re-
porters from the Deseret News, Salt Lake
Herald, Salt Lake Tribune and the Chicago
Inter-Ocean were on the platform; also
many other newspaper people, among whom
were Judge Tilford, Mr. Hollister and Mr.
Lockley, the others were strangers. Repre-
senative ladies of this city were upon the 
stand, to take part in the proceedings, and 
many veteran women, who have been true

[Column 2]
and faithful from the days of Kirtland, were
there to give their support to the action of 
the meeting and silently manifest their
approval.
	The assembly was called to order by Mrs.
Zina D. Young, and on motion of Mrs. E.B.
Wells, Miss Eliza R. Snow was elected
President; Mrs S. M. Kimball was chosen
Secretary, and Mrs. Augusta J. Crocheron,
Assistant Secretary.
	The choir, led by Mrs. E. Thomas, Mrs.
Fannie Y. Thatcher, organist, then sang
"The Standard of Zion."
	Mrs. Prescindia Kimball offered the
opening prayer. Mrs. Kimball prayed that
wisdom might inspire those assembled to-
gether on this great and solemn occasion;
that everything might be done for the 
honor and glory of God. That as God's 
outstretched arm had carried his people
through many trials, He would be with
them now; that He would bless and pro-
tect them through all trials and tribula-
tions; that He would remember in mercy
this free country, the President of the
United States and its rulers; also the Gover-
nors of each State and Territory; that He
would bless our Delegate to Congress, who
was about to go to Washington; that He
would pour out His Holy Spirit upon him;
that He would uphold the principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage, which He had revealed in
these last days for the good of the human
family, notwithstanding the persecutions of
those who sought to overthrow it; that He
would strengthen Zion and bless the young
and rising generation, and bring peace into
the valleys of the mountains. She dedicat-
ed the congregation to the Lord, prayed
that angels might guard them in this hour of
trial; and hasten the time when Zion shall be
redeemed, and all shall be accomplished for 
the living and the dead, even back to the 
time when the priesthood was taken from
the earth.
	The choir sang, "Up, awake ye defenders
of Zion."
	On being called to the chair, Miss Eliza
R. Snow said:
Beloved Sisters and Friends:
	It now becomes my duty, as president
over this assembly, to state the object of
this meeting. As saints of the living God,
who have been persecuted and driven from
our homes from place to place, and now lo-
cated in the valleys of these mountains,
having been misrepresented from time to 
time, we claim the privilege, to-day, of
representing ourselves. As true and loyal
American citizens, we claim the right of
protection by that government under
which we live, and the free exercise of our
religious rights. It is for the sake of our
religion that we are located here; and inas-
much as we, the veritable women of Utah,
those who came here when this land and
soil belonged to Mexico, and who, through
our faith, prayers and indefatigable labors,
have assisted in reclaiming it—making it
habitable and beautiful—we claim that we
have, under God and under the glorious
constitution of our country, which has been 
bequethed to us by our forefathers, and 
which we believe to have been given by the 
inspiration of God through our noble pro-

[Column 3]
genitors, the sacred right to believe as we
please—to listen to the voice of God when
he speaks—to obey him by keeping those
commandments which he has delivered
unto us, knowing that he has spoken in
these last days by his own voice, by the 
voice of his well beloved Son, and by the 
voice of angels to him whom he raised up
prophet and seer, that He has gathered his
people together from the four quarters of
the earth, that He is establishing a govern-
ment upon the principles of purity, peace
and righteousness. We feel that it is our
right to worship God according to the dic-
tates of our own consciences, without fear
or molestation, under the protection of that
government which guarantees unto us the
right of conscience. And inasmuch as one
of the most important principles which God
has revealed, and which He requires of his
children to practice, has been assailed, we
have met to mutually express our views
upon this subject.
	Before the principle of plurality of wives
was known to be practiced by the Latter-
day Saints, we were driven, our prophet
and patriarch were vilely massacred, and 
not one of the perpetrators of the atrocious
deed has ever been brought to justice. We
have submitted to these wrongs, we have
suffered oppression, privation, hardships
and misrepresentation, and now we feel
that it is our right, and duty demands of us,
to express our sentiments.
	I am proud to state before this large and 
honorable assembly that I believe in the 
principle of plural marriage just as sacredly
as I believe in any other institution which
God has revealed. I believe it to be neces-
sary for the redemption of the human fam-
ily from the low state of corruption into 
which it has sunken. And I truly believe
that a congress composed of polygamic
men, who are true to their wives, would
confer a far higher honor upon a nation, and 
would perform better service to their coun-
try than a congress composed of monogam-
ic, unreliable husbands.
	Virtue is the foundation of the prosperity
of any nation; and this sacred principle of
plural maariage tends to virtue, purity, and
holiness. Those who represent the women
of Utah as ignorant and degraded, are
either aiming to bring evil upon us, or they
know not what they are doing. Although
I deprecate the false and odious representa-
tions of our condition, and the vilification
of our characters, I view with pity and 
commiseration those who have banded to-
gether in our midst, to work up a crusade
that is calculated and designed to subvert
and to sever the most sacred ties existing
between man and woman—to separate hus-
bands and wives, to put the reproach of bas-
tardy upon their children, and trample
upon the holiest affections of the human
heart. I say I look upon them with sym-
pathy and commiseration,  They are trying
to measure arms with the Almighty—they
know not what they do. Do I feel a spirit
of revenge towards them? No, my sisters,
I do not. They are in the hands of God,
and to him we submit all these matters.
Yet it is our duty, as far as we have the 
privilege, to plead our own cause, realizing
fully that it is better to represent ourselves


[Column 1]
than to be misrepresented, and leave ven-
geance unto God, who has said, "Vengeance
is mine, and I will repay." For this pur-
pose, my sisters, we have met together to
express our feelings and to plead our own
cause.
	The following address was then read by
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith:
	It is somewhat surprising that we, who
are the true representatives of the women
of Utah, having, in connection with our
husbands, assisted in redeeming these once
desert valleys, should be called to assemble
to vindicate ourselves against misrepre-
sentations made by our Christian sisters,
those who have arrived here at so late a
date and for so different an object. We
were driven from our homes to seek refuge
somewhere else, for the testimony of Jesus
and the word of God. They know why they
are here. We came because we loved God
and the principles of righteousness, "count-
ing all things as dross for the excellency of
the knowledge of God," who had revealed
Himself in our day; hoping that far away
from a professed Christianity we might live
in peace and worship Him who had so
highly favored us, and live in accordance
with those principles which alone lead to
endless lives. As a legal citizen of this
great republic, I enter my most fervent pro-
test against this unlawful and unhallowed
crusade founded on misrepresentations.
Congress has no right to interfere with our
most sacred religion. As well might that
honorable body legislate against baptism by
immersion aa against plurality of wives.
God has revealed these principles, and they
must be sustained. With our own free con-
sent our husbands take more wives, and
when children crown our joy, around our
sacred family altars we bow the knee and
supplicate our Heavenly Father's blessing
on our household, and rejoice in his divine
favor as legitimate wives with honorable
children. We regard our husbands as men
of true virtue and integrity, who take
upon themselves so great a responsibility
in honoring the laws of God, and we bear
them up in our faith and secret prayers,
Let our sisters in the United States know
this, and instead of seeking special legisla-
tion to infringe upon our liberties, let them
rather take the honorable part and protect
us in our rights, and thus make for them-
selves a nobler record.
	Sister Zina D. Young delivered the fol-
lowing extemporaneous speech:
	The ladies of Utah, whose intelligent
faces I now look upon! Could I have had a
vision of so grand a spectacle 40 years ago,
when as a church, few in numbers, we were
struggling for an existence on the earth, I
question whether I then could have be-
lieved my eyes, nor could I then have
thought that God had prepared so great a 
blessing, that I should behold so goodly a
number of intelligent ladies who have had
the privilege of being baptized into Christ,
of putting on Christ, counting it no rob-
bery with God to be heirs and joint heirs
with his Son Jesus. It was for this pur-
pose you and I found a resting place in 
these valleys of the mountains, which, as
has been remarked, was not then United
States soil. The incidents of our coming
here in the manner we did—the fatigue,
the suffering from cold and hunger as well
as the heart-rending scenes through which
we passed, have often been penned. Bbt
Oh! none can realize them, or appreciate
fully our feelings when contemplating those
early experiences, but those who have
passed through them. Those scenes have

[Column 2]
passed; but we are sometimes reminded of
them; especially when croppings of the
same spirit are witnessed in those who op-
pose us in our rights, which prompted those 
who forced upon us our sufferings.
	The principle of our holy religion that is
assailed is one that lies deep in my heart.
Could I ask the heavens to listen; could I
beseech the earth to be still, and the brave
men who possess the spirit of a Washing-
ton to hear what I am about to say! I am
the daughter of a Master Mason! I am the
widow of a Master Mason, who when leap-
ing from the windows of Carthage jail
pierced with bullets, made the Masonic
sign of distress; but, gentlemen, (address-
ing the representatives of the press that
were present) those signs were not heeded
except by the God of heaven. That man,
the prophet of the Almighty, massacred
without mercy! He is now with those who
are crying, "Wait a little longer, until the 
blood of your brethren, the martyrs, is
shed." [Applause.] Sisters, this is the
first time in my life that I have dared to 
give utterance to this fact, but I thought I 
could trust my soul to say it on this occa-
sion, and I say it now in the fear of Israel's
God, and I say it in the presence of these
gentlemen, and I wish my voice could be
heard by the whole brotherhood of Masons
throughout our proud land. That instit[-]-
tion I honor. If its principles were prac-
tised and strictly adhered to, would there
be a trespass upon virtue? No indeed.
Would the honorable wife or daughter be
intruded on with impunity? Nay verily.
Would that the ladies of America, with
the honorable Mrs. Hayes at their head;
would that the Congress of the United
States, the law-makers of our nation, could
produce a balm for the many evils which
exist in our land through the abuse of vir-
tue, or could so legislate that virtue could
be protected and cherished as the life which
heaven has given us! We, in common
with many a woman throughout our broad
land, would hail with joy the approach of 
such deliverance, for such is the deliver-
ance that woman needs.
	The principle of plural marriage is hon-
orable, it is a principle of the Gods—it is 
heaven-born. God revealed it to us, among
other things, as a saving principle; we
have accepted it as such, and we know it is
of him for the fruits of it are holy. Worthy
men and women of old practised it, even
the Savior himself traces his lineage back
to polygamic parents. We are proud of 
the principle because we understand its
true worth, and we want our children to 
practise it, that through us a race of men
and women may grow up possessing sound
minds in sound bodies, who shall "live to
the age of a tree."
	Some of the ladies who have so recently
come among us have thought fit to band to-
gether, for what? If they truly want to
benefit and bless their sex, let them direct
their labors among the many unfortunate
women of the towns and cities from whence
they came. They cannot help us. God
alone can do that. And we are already
blessed with comfortable and happy homes,
with rights and privileges which they can
neither give nor take from us. And we
are blessed with husbands whom we have
confidence in, and we honor them as they
honor their God. And let me tell you, my
sisters, there are many good and intelligent
women in our land to-day who wish their
husbands were as honorable as ours, and 
that they could tie to theirs as we can to
ours. We love our husbands, we love our
children, and we love our religion, and

[Column 3]
there is abundance of proof in what we
have done that we are sincere.
	The next speaker was Mrs. Hannah T.
King, who read the following, written by
herself:
	I heard in my youth of the perfect free-
dom and the glorious liberty of America;
of the uncounted wealth of her citizens;
that there were no poor in America; that
fraternity and equality walked hand in 
hand; that her constitution was the most
faultless thing on earth; that the finger of
God was palpable in its formation; that the
country produced almost spontaneously; its
prospects grand and glorious; that her hills
were mountains and her rivers seas; that
the worship of the great Creator was free
and unbiased to all, without any restric-
tions, even though it were absurd, or
thought to be so, still it was free, and all
respected! For this very freedom the
"Mayflower" bore her precious freight of
souls across th[-] mighty Atlantic. Yes, the 
one grand idea. that here they might wor-
ship God according to the dictates of their
own individual creed and conscience. I
was born free and was an earnest, deep-
thinking girl, and the glory of this descrip-
tion became daguerrotyped on my young
mind till the dream of my youth became
a desire to visit this Eldorado and see for
myself this glorious Young America! this
far renowned republic! But years passed,
and the way did not open. I was married
early in life, and peace and plenty sur-
rounded my habitation, my cup became full
to overflowing, of good things. When I
heard of a people who had risen up in this
land which I had so poetized in my own
mind, and that they were called Latter-day
Saints; my mind was brought to a focus up-
on the principles they advanced; I consult-
ed no one but my God. I took my Bible
and compared them with the teachings of
Jesus, and found they corresponded in ev-
ery particular. The Elders told me that an 
angel had come and restored the everlasting
Gospel in its purity again to the earth, that
revelations had been given for the reorgan-
ization of God's church upon the earth, the
door being that by which Christ himself
entered when he was baptized by John the 
Baptist before entering upon his mission,
etc., etc. I listened and obeyed; there were
no inducements held o[-]t of ecclesiastical
honors, or of a high position in society. No!
but that probably my [-]ame would be cast
out as evil when I took upon myself the 
name of a disciple of Jesus, whose life was
suffering and obedience! The love of truth
and the Spirit of God showed me that this
Church was according to the pattern, in
every particular, that Christ had laid down
and established by his own example; I em-
braced it, passing through the door of bap-
tism for the remission of my sins. And
now the way was open for me to realize the 
dream of my youth, and become an inhab-
itant of this free and glorious country, that
I had so often heard spoken of as the refuge
of the destitute, and the land of the free!
Then came the astounding news that Jo-
seph Smith, the Prophet, Seer and Revela-
tar of the Church of Christ, had been mas-
sacred for his principles! as also his brother
Hyrum with him! It came like a thunder-
bolt! What, in America? that land whose
constitution guaranteed to all of every
clime among her people, "Life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness!" Alas! I awak-
ened from my early dream! My eyes were
opened and I saw, and knew that light had
come into the world, but darkness was pre-
ferred. To me, it acted only as a testimony


[Column 1]
that this was indeed the Church of Jesus
Christ re-established upon the earth, and
hence the persecution. Gathering was and
is one of our principles, and I had the spirit
of it as soon as I had been baptized; my
good and beautiful children embraced it
also, and we arose and left our beloved
home, laying all upon the altar, if need be,
for the Gospel in its fulness; and embracing
all its principles and of course plurality
among the rest. I had been educated in the
strictest principles of morality and refine-
ment, yet when I had heard that this was
one of the tenets of the Church, given by
revelation, I was by no means staggered,
but pondered it in my heart like Mary of
old! I knew it was the order of the an-
cient Saints, and great blessings had been
conferred upon the human family by obey—
ing it, even the Saviour coming to the 
earth through that lineage. Viewing it
also philosophically, I felt that its laws co-
incided with the law of my nature. My
daughters entered into the order in all their
youth and beauty—educated as they had﻿
been in all the refinements of the world,
and have ever honored it, and been an
honor to it, and to the Church, whose prin-
ciples they left their homes and all its at-
tractions to obey; and if my husband did not
enter into it, he was of course free to follow
his own mind; he was a man of the purest,
most refined morals, and I never heard him
say or hint one word against the [-]rder,
even when his young daughters entered in-
to it. "Verily, to the pure, all things are
pure." I have now been in the Church
twenty-eight years, and my path has not
been one of roses by any means, but I have
no regrets. I would not return to former
things, for Queen Victoria's crown and all
its appendages. The Lord being my helper,
I will live and die where I have cast my
lot. Its principles will feed and sustain all
those who desire to live them, and are full
of glory and immortality. This is, indeed
a mere synopsis of my Church history, but
a hint to the wise and good is sufficient for
them.
	I would like to have an interview with
the first lady of our country at the present
time. I have heard much of her goodness,
her love of honesty and truth, and should
love to see her take steps to investigate our
principles, and us as a people, we court in-
ves[-]igation, and never feel afraid. For
perfect love casteth fear. We love the hon-
est, ths wise and the good of every land and
clime, for one touch of the gospel makes
the whole world kin, when they embrace
it.
	If there are strangers present, I would
respectfully ask them to investigate our
principles—not the characters of men and
women indiscriminately, the truth of God
is not dependent on human action or hu-
man judgment. Among what churches on
earth are there no imperfect ones? We
must first be perfect our[-]elves before we
throw down the gauntlet. This is a proba-
tion, and imperfection is at present the law
of our being; by this "we make the whips
that scourge us," and by this we get our
schooling and increase in knowledge, wis-
dom and understanding, and then we can
make all things work for our good in time
and eternity.
	Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot made the follow
ing impromptu speech:
	I am thankful, a[--] proud of the privilege
of standing before my sisters in the new and
everlasting covenant, many of whom know
me and have known me for many years. I
have been a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints forty-four years;

[Column 2]
I have trodden paths strewn with thorns,
and I have trodden paths strewn with roses.
I have enjoyed my life and my religion all
the days I have spent in it. I know for
myself that we are engaged in the work of
the living God, and that I am numbered
among his people.
	With regard to the principle of plural
marriage, I wish to say, that I have had
experience in its practice for over thirty
years. I am the wife of a polygamist, I be-
lieve in the principle, and I know it to be
pure and chaste; and I know that those
who practise it in the spirit of the Gospel
of which it is a part, are pure and virtuous.
	And I know, too, that purer men and wo-
men do not live upon God's footstool than
those who live in this order of marriage.
	I have seen the Prophet Joseph through
whom this principle was revealed; I have
listened to his teachings, I have known for
myself of his virtue, of his purity, of his
goodness, of his desire to elevate and bless
the human family, and what I say, many of
you, my sisters, can bear witness of. I
know, too, that virtue and goodness and
purity is the watchword of our brethren; I
say I KNOW, I do not say I believe it, but I
do know for myself that what I say is
true. I know it by the revelations of the
Spirit of the living God—the Comforter
that was promised by the Saviour, and it is
confirmed by my long experience: I have
lived now nearly seventy years on this
earth, and forty-fonr of them have been
spent serving my God in this new and ever-
lasting covenant.
	My husband, as I have intimated, is a
polygamist; his other wives and his chil-
dren by those are just as much a part of his
family as me and mine, I being his first
wife; and his other wives are just as lawful
and honorable in the sight of God as I am,
and his children I consider to be just as
lawful and honorable as any children born
in wedlock. These are not only my feelings,
but I know them to be the feelings of many
others who o[-]cupy a position like that
which I occupy, and I believe them to be
the feelings of this whole community who
would, if they had the privilege, speak in
their own defense. We are not a degraded
community; we are not in abject slavery.
We have our privileges and rights—just as
many as I want, and as many as I know
how to use. Let me repeat—we are not
"degraded," neither are our children. We
have the noblest of children and the happi-
est of homes. I would be willing to com-
pare my husband's family with anybody's
family, to see what defect can be found in
them. Our sisters, ladies of other persua-
sions, have spoken of us as being "degrad-
ed." They do not know us, we are not un-
derstood, our principles are not understood,
neither are our motives known. We have
never attempted to interfere with any of
their privileges. On the contrary, we
have made them welcome to our land, after
making it what it is. We are they who
came here when the place was a desert wil-
derness: who have subdued the arid soil,
built the cities and planted the gardens and
vineyards, and made the place beautiful
and desirable. We, I say, have done this, un-
der the blessing of Almighty God, for with-
out his blessing upon our labors we could
not have endured the toil. But let me say,
that as far as our situation is concerned, we
are in the hands of God, and, as has often
been said, so I say, if this work is of God,
it will stand, despite all efforts to the con-
trary; and if of man, it must fail. But I do
not use the word "if" as though in doubt of
it, because I know, and you know, my sis-

[Column 3]
sters, tnat it is of God; and we know, to o
of the purity, the virtues and the integrity
that fill the bosoms of our sisters belonging
to this Church. We do not profess to be
perfect, but we can say, that those who live
up to all their privileges are blessed and
owned of God. We are in his hands, and
he will take care of his people.

	Dr. Romania B. Pratt read the following
address.

Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:

	To get the proper understanding of a
subject about which there is a difference of
opinion, and especially in an element where
right and wrong are so intricately inter-
mingled—wrong displacing right at every
presented opportunity, we must eliminate
the facts, which are the stern and indisput-
able rounds in the ladder of ascent by
which we climb slowly, but surely, to the
true solution of the difficulty. Suddenly
there has arisen in our midst a new variety
of opposition; the object of which is to
tread into the dust, without stint or dis-
tinction, that which we hold most sacred.
It is an element that, in the search for evil,
has skimmed from the surface the floating
ills with which (magnified and recolored by
their own perverted imagination into abso-
lute misrepresentation) they have sought to
arouse in the public mind, sentiments as
bitter as their own, with this object—that
we may be swept out of existence without
our cause being investigated or considered.
They have entirely overlooked the fact that
truth is heavy and often lies hidden in the
depths of unspoken words and deeds.
	The first question in the process of anal-
ysis of this matter is, who are these oppos-
ers? and second, who are the opposed? The
latter are they who, by glancing back
through the vista of thirty years, may be
seen in their westward journey as a little
handful of husbands, wives and children,
slowly w[-]nding their way toward the wil-
derness; with the cheerful hope treasured
deeply in their hearts, that there, buried in
its depths, they might worship God accord-
ing as he revealed his will and command-
ments. Thus the weary miles were crept
over, patiently overcoming the obstacles
of nature, braving dangers from wild men
and beasts, until the Lord whispered to his
anointed Prophet, "Here, in the barren
valley of the Great Salt Lake, is the resting
place of my people."
	Dilligently the pitching of tents went on,
followed by busy preparations for the ap-
proaching uptried winter, without a single
misgiving as to the result, for their hearts
were filled with the sustaining and glowing
influence of the Holy Spirit, inspiring them
with the assurance that God was near. As
the fruits of indomitable energy, persever-
ance and patient labor, the wild sagebrush
vanished, the rocky and arid soil, through
the power of the life-giving streams of
water, softening the forbidden face of na-
ture into smiling fields and gardens. With
this glad change of elements there gradual-
ly arose and prospered; industries, enter-
prise and [-]ommerce, the busy hum of
which tickled the ears of lovers of gain,
when again the web of our lives is inter-
woven with the hostile element of former
years. Is it a necessity that a community
of members of widely differing sentiments
on religious matters need harbor and foster
feelings of bitterness and strife? The many
true and tried "Gentile" friends of our 
people certi[-]y to the negative.
	There come times in our lives which
specially demand that the true spirit and

		(Continued on Page 102.)


[Column 1]

	(Continued from Page 99.)
strength of each individual should come
forth and take a firm stand for her convic-
tions and principles. History repeats itself
in the events of the sailing of our pilgrim
fathers, the signing of the constitution, the
exodus of the saints in '46, and to-day, the
enforced necessity of vindicating and pre-
serving the most sacred principle of our
faith and the honor and integrity of our-
selves and husbands. The days of silence
and patient endurance of calumny on the
women of the Latter-day Saints concerning
the subject of plural marriage are over.
And notwithstanding that "neglected cal-
umny soon expires," the great importance
of the fact that our children and children's
children have been born and bred under the
teachings and practice of this great princi-
ple, and the sacredness of our duty to pre-
serve hallowed and pure in their hearts the
altar of filial love, though sub-ordinate to
our higher duty of obedience to God, is an
inspiration not to be neglected or unheeded.
	It is the imperative duty and inaliena-
ble right of every woman to choose her re-
ligious path in life, and this we have done
to the perfect answering of heart and con-
science. To me there is but one alternative
beside the faith of the Latter-day Saints,
and that is Infidelity—the shoreless deep to
which too many are surely drifting. As to
securing to ourselves a path in this life
without perplexities and trials, can this
security be found where there is only one
wife, any more than in the family of plural
marriage? Investigation says not. There-
fore we believe, and are constrained to say
that if the progressive spirit of the age and
true Christian sympathy and labor be di-
rected toward the redemption and elevation
of the myriads of wronged and abandoned
women, abounding in all great cities, to the
rearing and education of the thousands of
illegitimate children, and to the enactment
of such laws that shall lay the axe at the
root of this evil, that very soon a feeling of
peace and goodwill would fill the hearts of
the nation, and the spirit of mobocracy,
that would invade the homes of the saints,
depart from the face of the land.
	The following preamble and resolutions
were read by Miss Annie Wells, which, on
motion, were unanimously adopted:
		PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTIONS.
	WHEREAS, We, women of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, have been
misjudged and misrepresented to the na-
tion, by those in our midst of our own sex,
in regard to our most sacred rights—the
rights which pertain to the holy relations
of wifehood and motherhood, we do hereby
earnestly, solemnly and emphatically de-
clare our true sentiments, and invite a
thorough and impartial investigation of our
cause; wherefore:
	RESOLVED, That we, women of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, and loyal American citizens, claim
the right guaranteed by the Constitution
that "Congress shall make no law respecting
an establishment of religion or prohibiting
the free exercise thereof;" a right which
we seek to exercise, not to the injury of
others, but within the pale of peace and
justice, of life, liberty and pursuit of hap-
piness, according to the dictates of our own
consciences.
	RESOLVED, that we protest against
any enactment of any laws which de-
prive American citizens, whether male
or female, of any constitutional right; and
that we make a united effort to secure the
unanimous voice of the women of our faith,

[Column 2]

to plead the passage of the Sixteenth
Amendment during the coming session of
Congress.
	RESOLVED, That we solemnly avow
our belief in the doctrine of the Pa-
triarchal order of marriage, a doctrine
which was revealed to and practised by
God's people in past ages, and is now re-
established on the earth, by divine com-
mand of Him who is the same yesterday,
to-day and forever. A doctrine which, if
lived up to and carried out under the direc-
tion of the precepts pertaining to it, and of
the higher principles of our nature, would
conduce to the long life, strength and glory
of the people practising it; and we there-
fore endorse it, as one of the most import-
ant principles of our holy religion, and
claim the right of its practice.
	RESOLVED, That we do truly appre-
ciate the efforts and labors of the noble
ladies of the National Woman's Suffrage
Association, who, though opposed in their
feelings to plural marriage, and without
sympathy for our religious views, bravely
defended the cause of woman's rights in
Utah, in the halls of Congress, and take
this public opportunity of tendering them
an expression of our sincere and heartfelt
thanks.
	RESOLVED, That the women of Utah
memorialize Congress, setting forth
their grievances, and that they take such
other justifiable steps as may be necessary
to defend themselves against the ruthless
and violent assault now being made upon
their sacred and constitutional rights.
	Mrs. Phoebe Woodruff then said:
	My sisters, I can say that I stand before
you as a witness of the truthfulness of the
doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. It has been upwards of
forty years since my first acquaintance with
these doctrines, this people and the Pro-
phet Joseph Smith. I knew him to be an
honorable, virtuous and pure man, and his
brother Hyrum also. They strove as much
as they could to bless the saints and people
of this generation by the teaching of true
and righteous principles. If my memory
serves me rightly, the Prophet was arrested
forty different times accused of crimes, but
nothing was ever proved against him. And
after laboring until he was 38 years of age,
he with his brother Hyrum was murdered,
and for what? For teaching the Gospel of
Jesus as revealed to him from the heavens,
of which the whole world was in ignor-
ance, and when those wicked men commit-
ted this act, they knew not they had killed
the best friend they had upon the earth.
However, that deed must be accounted for,
justice and judgment will take their place.
	I was brought up to regard strictly the
principles of morality; and when the order
of Celestial Marriage was introduced into
the Church, I thought it the most heinous
thing I ever heard of, and I opposed it to
the utmost of my power, thinking I was
doing right. But I began to consider and
reflect, and I learned that it came through
the prophet of God. I regarded it in an
earnest light, and therefore I went to God,
my heavenly Father, and inquired of Him
of the truth of this doctrine. He made it
manifest to me as plainly as I could have
wished that it was of Him, and that it
came as a principle of salvation to the wo-
men of this generation. If I am proud of
anything in this world it is that I accepted
the principle of plural marriage and re-
mained among the people called "Mor-
mons" and am numbered with them to-day.
I am acquainted with their doctrines, and

[Column 3]

I declare to this large congregation, and I
would that I could do so to the whole world,
that they teach the principles of truth and
righteousness, of virtue and purity. Such
principles will harm no one. Then why
are we so persecuted? To answer briefly,
because these principles are of God, who
has set his hand again to establish his name
in the earth, by introducing these very
principles, which the adversary cannot and
will never overthrow. And those who per-
secute this principle will suffer for it, sure.
I can say truly that I am satisfied for one—
and I do'nt guess at it, nor is it because
some one has told me—but it is because the
Spirit of God has borne testimony to me of
the truth of this work, and of its truthful-
ness I am a witness. Then why are people
opposed to it? It is because they do not
know it, and because they do not seek to
know it. There is but one way that any-
body can find out the truth of our doctrines,
and that is by going to God, the Author of
them, in all humility and honesty of heart,
asking Him in the name of Jesus whether
they are of Him or of man.
	To those who have come among us, and
who are endeavoring to put down this prin-
ciple of plural marriage, I would say that
for one, I thank you for your good inten-
tions in trying to suppress what you think
is wrong; but let me say to you, and I now
speak the sentiments of by far the larger
part of this congregation, bestow your sym-
pathy upon those who need it; go to the
large cities of our land and reclaim your
poor fallen sisters; they need it, we don't,
and we ask to be let alone. We are per-
fectly able to stand on our own foundation,
by the help of our Heavenly Father; and
let me tell you that He is at the helm, He
will see us safely through, and will bless all
those who seek to honor and respect virtue;
and those who do it not will meet justice.
Beware, then, you injure not the innocent,
for justice awaits all that shall be found
guilty of doing so, so sure as God lives.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am very much pleased to meet with so
many of my sisters on this momentous oc-
casion. I love woman: it is one of my sen-
timents; and I am proud to say that among
the women of the Latter-day Saints there
are as true and noble women as can be
found anywhere else in the world, with de-
sires and aims as lofty and as pure. Al-
though we are charged with nearly every-
thing that it is possible for our sex to be ac-
cused of, yet we feel we have those motives
within us that buoy us up and bear us above
the trials we have to endure.
	I intended to have written an address for
this meeting, but have been ill and unable
to do so, yet I thought I could not let this
opportunity pass without offering a few
words.
	I feel that we are in earnest; that the
time has come when we can no longer be
silent, as we are assailed, and that too by
our own sex, who, it seems, would, if pos-
sible, deprive us of the claim to wifehood
and motherhood, by destroying our most
sacred relations and crushing our most holy
affections. But they know not what they
do. Were they conscious of the conse-
quences were their undertakings to be suc-
cessful, they would cease their efforts and
shrink from the task.
	The Lord is with this people; this fact
has been plainly manifest. None, I think,
who are possessed of reason can question
that, whether our principles of religion are
true or not. We have already proclaimed
our wrongs and sufferings (brought about


[---]ough persecution) to the world; but
[-]ow we feel that we are called upon to do
[--] in a manner different from that we have
heretofore employed; and that, too, because
we have been attacked in a way we never
anticipated. We never thought that wo-
man could rise up against woman. Such a
thought was far indeed from my mind, and
I believe from the minds of the women of
Utah. Though I cherish no ill-feelings to-
wards those who have so greatly interested
themselves against this principle of our
faith, yet they oppose it and we must meet
it; and we intend to meet it with all the
energy and fortitude we possess, and it
will be "diamond cut diamond" rest as-
sured; proposing, of course, all measures
of peace and harmony, and adhering strictly
to the Constitution of our country; but let
it be known that we intend to defend our
institutions, and represent our own cause,
both at home and abroad, and let the world
know how much truth there is in those oft-
told tales of woe about the drown-trodden
Mormon women. Thank God there are a
few honorable people in the world, who are
not afraid to publish for the outcast and de-
spised women of Utah.
	Mrs. E. Thomas entertained the meeting
with one of her sweet songs, when the
closing prayer was offered by Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00  Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday, 
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
	THE PATRIARCHAL ORDER OF
			MARRIAGE	 

	In this city, at the present time, the subject
of a plurality of wives, its conditions and con-
sequences, is the topic of the hour. It even
forms the basis of partyism, and that, too, be-
tween women. It cannot be expected that
any great innovation of established customs in
any country, however liberal, can be made
without its conflicting with the prejudices of
individuals, and especially those who are secta-
rian, sterotyped, or conservative. The genius
of Mormonism is progressive, it tends to a high-
er and more elevated phase of life; not accord-
ing to the views of the world through the
resources of wealth, but by means of higher
laws, given by revelation to a people humble,
willing and obedient. God seldom revealed
Himself in any age to the proud and haughty.
All the great and wise men favored of God in
past ages were meek and humble; when they
became lifted up the Lord chastised them; and
there is abundant testimony in the Scriptures,
that through humility and obedience the great-
est blessings from God are obtained.
	Many intelligent women as well as men,
out-numbering men even, have embraced the
doctrines of Mormonism; they comprehend its
truths for themselves. Among other princi-
ples, they have accepted the patriarchal order
of marriage as a part of their holy religion.
They are as sincere and fervent in their belief
on this subject as any other, in fact it is one of
the vital principles of their faith. It is inter-
woven intricately with their hearts and lives.
	What is there so strong as woman's love?
And are Mormon women less capable of loving
than their Gentile sisters? Remember, good
friends, who so much desire to do good to Mor-
mon women, you are touching the most sensi-
tive subject when you seek to disannul their
marriage covenants, and bring discord and
confusion into homes where now exist peace
and harmony and love.
	Far better had you set yourselves to effect
some measures whereby single ladies of mature
age might secure homes, and become the
mothers of children. Mormon women have
not entered into these solemn and sacred cove-
nants without understanding for themselves.
They have searched the Scriptures, they have
sought God in prayer and fasting, and thou-
sands of them can testify to-day of great spir-
itual manifestations, giving them positive
knowledge of God's approval of this holy order
of matrimony.
	It is folly to suppose that intelligent women,
possessing fine spiritual natures—women who
have forsaken homes and the society of loved
ones, enduring all sorts of hardship, toil and
privation, and braving actual dangers for their
religion, would enter lightly, without serious

[Column 2]
reflection and candid investigation, into mar-
riage covenants, that were contrary to the es-
tablished rules and customs of the country;
especially at the sacrifice of all woman's self-
ishness.
	Great and good men and women highly fa-
vored of God were the founders on earth of the
Patriarchal order of marriage, and therefore it
cannot in itself be a crime because God has
expressly declared Himself against adultery.
	In the prose writings of John Milton (better
known as a poet), tenth chapter of "A Treatise
on Christian Doctrine," we find sound and
logical reasoning on this subject: "In the
definition (of marriage) which I have given, I
have not said, in compliance with the common
opinion of (ONE MAN WITH ONE WOMAN), lest I
should, by implication, charge the holy patri-
archs and pillars of our faith, Abraham and the
others who had more than one wife at the same
time, with habitual fornication and adultery;
and lest I should be forced to exclude from the
sanctuary of God as spurious, the holy offspring
which sprang from them, yea, the whole of
the sons of Israel, for whom the sanctuary it-
self was made. For it is said (Deut. xxiii, 2)
'A bastard shall not enter into the congrega-
tion of Jehovah, even to his tenth generation.'
Either, therefore, polygamy is a true marriage,
or all children born in that state are spurious;
which would include the whole race of Jacob,
the twelve holy tribes chosen by God. But as
such an assertion would be absurd in the ex-
treme, not to say impious, and as it is the
height of injustice as well as an example of
most dangerous tendency in religion to account
as sin what is not such in reality, it appears to
me, that, so far from the question respecting the
lawfulness of polygamy being trivial, it is of
the highest importance it should be decided."
	After much more arguing in favor of polyga-
my Milton says: "Lastly, I argue as follows
from Heb. xiii, 4. "Polygamy is either, mar-
riage, or fornication, or adultery.' The Apostle
recognizes no fourth state. Reverence for so
many patriarchs who were polygamists will, I
trust, deter any one from considering it as for-
nication or adultery; "For whoremongers and
adulterers God will judge;' whereas the patri-
archs were the objects of his especial favor, as
He Himself testifies. If, then, polygamy be
marriage properly so called, it is also lawful
and honorable.	*	*	*	It appears to
me sufficiently established by the above ar-
guments that polygamy is allowed by the law
of God; lest, however, any doubt should re-
main, I will subjoin abundant examples of
men whose holiness renders them fit examples
for imitation, and who are among the lights of
our faith." Milton then enumerates the po-
lygamists who were the recipients of special
favor from God; among them Elkanah, the fa-
ther of Samuel, who took with him his two
wives every year to the sacrifices and annual
worship. Milton adds, "Who can believe,
either that so many men of the highest charac-
ter should have sinned through ignorance for
so many ages, or that their hearts should have
been so hardened, or that God should have tol-
erated such conduct in his people? Let, there-
fore, the rule received among theologians have
the same weight here as in other cases"—"The
practise of the Saints is the best interpretation
of the commandments."
	Plural marriage presents itself now to the
public in the form of a living problem, and it
is one that puzzles and perplexes this gen-
eration. Men have been cogitating and leg-
islating to solve this vexed problem, and
now behold women have the matter under se-
rious consideration. Well, good friends, there
is something abstruse and deep in the Mormon

[Column 3]
Problem, and it is similar to a Mathematical
Problem, for it needs a key and that key be-
longs to the Great Teacher, and He gives it
only to the humble and obedient, who take
upon themselves his name and enter into cove-
nant with Him. These are they who are par-
takers of the promises given through Abraham
the father of the faithful. Mormonism lives, to-
day in the hearts of its thousands of followers
and will perpetuate its institutions through
their posterity.			E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE mass meeting occupies so large a portion
of this issue that we feel it is scarcely necessary
to say manuscript sent us for this number is
laid over.
	WE had the pleasure of seeing and hearing
Mrs. Scott-Siddons, the famous artiste and
reader, which was indeed a rich intellectual
treat. Entertainments of this kind are calcu-
lated to give a higher tone to the thirst for lit-
erary food in the form of recreation. We would
be glad to see some of the home talent highly
developed in elocution and public reading.
	Y. L. M. I. A., ATTENTION. —The Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations of
the Salt Lake Stake of Zion are hereby request-
ed to forward a condensed report of their sev-
eral organizations, dating from commence-
ment, and including statistical and financial
reports, names of officers, changes that have
been made, number of members enrolled, aver-
age attendance, times of holding meetings, etc.
The reports should be sent in time to be read at
the ladies' quarterly conference, to be held
December 21, 1878. Address—P. O. Box 1183,
Salt Lake City.
		MARY A. FREEZE, Superintendent.
		E. R. SHIPP, Secretary.
	A MASS meeting was held by the ladies of
Granite Ward, on Thursday, November 21, 1878.
Meeting was called to order by Mrs. Ruth A.
Despain, and on motion of Miss Ella E. Des-
pain, Mrs. Hannah Chlarsen was elected
chairman of the meeting; Miss Ella E. Des-
pain was chosen secretary. The chairman,
Mrs. Hannah Chlarsen, arose and stated that
the object of the meeting was to protest against
the anti-polygamy crusade, and to fully en-
dorse the resolutions passed by the ladies that
assembled at the Theatre on Saturday, the
16th. A vote was taken that all who were in
favor of endorsing the said resolutions would
make it manifest, and it was carried unani-
mously, not one dissenting voice. They also
wish no sympathy and ask no favor of the anti-
polygamy crusaders. A vote of thanks was
rendered to the chairman and secretary, and
the meeting was adjourned.
	WOMAN'S TERRITORIAL ANNUAL GRAIN
MEETING.—The annual meeting of the several
committees engaged in storing grain for Zion
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, November 23d, Mrs. E. B. Wells pre-
siding. After singing, prayer was offered by
Miss E. R. Snow. The first business of the
meeting was to choose a secretary; Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard was elected by unanimous vote
of the assembly. The Secretary then read the
report of November, 1877, and the minutes of
the first annual meeting, which were accepted.
She then read the report of the present year.
Total, 14,535 bushels, 1,650 pounds of flour, oats 7
bushels. This added to the report of last year
and the amount handed in to the President
since the meeting was held, makes in all 25,000
bushels of grain stored by women, much of it
being the product of the sisters' labors in Relief
Societies and Y. L. M. I. Associations. Their


teen granaries have been built, several others
commenced, and many more contemplated.
The granary built by the Relief Society of the
15th Ward cost $432.91. The one built by the 
sisters of the 17th Ward cost $300. Other Re-
lief Societies have not reported the expense of
building. Many Relief Societies have good
substantial bins for present use. The meeting
was addressed by Mrs. E. B. Wells, Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. Phoebe Wood-
ruff, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, President of We-
ber County R. S. Stake, Mrs. Ann Odell, of 
Ogden, Mrs. Maria Carrington and Mrs. E.
Howard. The President presented some special
business, and the meeting was adjourned for
one year, after singing, and prayer by Mrs. B.
W. Smith.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DEATH OF A VETERAN APOSTLE.
	Elder Orson Hyde, one of the senior mem-
bers of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles,
died at his residence, Spring City, Sanpete
County, on Thursday, November 28th, at 6
o'clock p.m.
	Elder Hyde was one of the strong pillars in
the Church; he has labored faithfully during a
very long period of time, preaching the Gos-
pel at home and abroad, and assisting in pro-
moting the interests of Zion.
	Elder Hyde was born January 8, 1805, in
large family to mourn for him; but such men
are public benefactors, and the whole people
mourn, yet rejoice, that he has passed beyond
the reach of pain and sorrow, that his life work
is completed, and he has gone to join the innu-
merable company of Saints, and associate in 
council with Joseph, Hyrum, Brigham, Heber,
Willard, and other good and great men his co-
laborers here.  Thus are passing away one by
one the pioneer workers in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, Nov. 4th, 1878, in Tooele, Mrs. Mary,
the beloved wife of Elder Robert Meikle-john,
in the 67th year of her age.
	Deceased was born April 14th, 1812, in Dum-
bartonshire, Scotland. She embraced the
Gospel in her native land in 1841, and emigrat-
ed to Utah in 1855. The loss occasioned by the 
death of the highly esteemed Sister Meikle-
john is now and long will be deeply felt. In
her, her husband has lost a loving companion
and wise counselor—her children, a kind and
affectionate monitor; in her, the poor have lost
a friend—the sick a physician—the erring a
guide—and all those who are earnestly labor-
ing to promote the interests of Zion an efficient
co-worker.
	Her Children, now left to mourn her loss, are
living evidences of her wisdom and faithful-
ness as a mother of children; and as a "mother
in Israel," many, very many testify of her un-
tiring diligence and self-sacrificing devotion to
the labors and responsibilities of that important
position.
	In April, 1870, she was elected President of
the Relief Society of Tooele Wards; and in
Sept., 1878, was elected President of the Relief
Society Stake of Zion for Tooele County. With
characteristic, unassuming modesty, this high
calling she cheerfully accepted, and had just
entered upon its duties when suddenly she
was called to a higher sphere. She "fought
the good fight and kept the faith".
	Prudent and wise in every move,
		In household duties and abroad—
	Prompt to each call of trust and love—
		True to her cov'nants with her God.

[Column 2]

	Words are too weak: her life-prints tell
		How firm and faithful to the end;
	She fill'd her sphere: you fill'd it well,
		Beloved Mother, Wife and Friend!
			E. R. SNOW.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 19, 1878.
	Died, in Salt Lake City, November 12, Mrs
Adelaide F. Smith, after an illness of two
weeks from the effects of blood poisoning occa-
sioned by getting a piece of glass into her
hand.
	She was the daughter of Henry and Ann
Fowles, and was born September 8th, 1831, at
Bedford, Bedforshire, England. She was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, in her childhood. On February 8th,
1850, she was married to Elder Job Smith,
while he was on a mission to England. Mrs.
Smith left England for Utah in 1854, with her
husband and little children. Her babe died on
board ship, and was consigned to the bosom of
the great deep; the eldest child died on the
steamer coming up the Mississippi and was
buried by the shore of the river.
	Deceased leaves a husband and five children,
who will miss her constant care and attention.
A sister and family are her only other rela-
tives in this land, but she has numerous friends
who will deeply and sincerely mourn her loss.
She was a woman of strong characteristics,
sterling integrity, and possessing most benevo-
lent qualities of heart.
	Mrs. Smith spent three years in Ogden, as-
sisting with untiring industry and womanly
tact and skill to aid in establishing the straw
millinery as a branch of home-manufacture of 
the Relief Society of Ogden. The President
and sisters of Ogden Relief Society condole
with the daughter who is left to take charge of
the family, and desire to manifest their deep
sympathy for the husband and children thus
sorely bereft, and they hereby wish to express
their ardent appreciation of her untiring labors
and successful efforts in the home industry in
which she worked so diligently and faithfully for 
three successive years. She will be long remem-
bered, and her memory will be dearly cherished
by her sisters there, and they will ever pray for 
the happiness, prosperity and peace of those
she has left behind, her children and friends.
	Mrs. Smith was a firm believer in the doc-
trines and principles of the Everlasting Gos-
pel, and bore a faithful testimony to the same.
Her indefatigable labors in making a branch of
home-manufacture popular and successful is
one of the best evidences of her faith and devo-
tion to the work of God in the last days, which
is a practical as well as spiritual work.
	Died, at Wallsburg, November 6th, 1878,
Bathsheba L. Kerby, beloved wife of Alma
Kerby, and daughter of our beloved President
of the Relief Society; aged 20 years, 1 month
and 21 days.
	Deceased was born at Provo, September 16th,
1858. She leaves a husband and two children
(the youngest two weeks old) and numerous
relatives and friends to mourn her loss. She
was a faithful Latter day Saint, beloved by all
who knew her. She was a teacher in our Re-
lief Society, which position she faithfully
filled. While we deeply mourn her absence,
we feel that our loss is her infinite gain.
	"Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord,
even so says the spirit, for they rest from their
labors and their works do follow them."
		S. G.
	Died, in Spanish Fork, September 25th, 1878,
Mary Magdalene, daughter of the late John
Baxter and Mary Ferguson, after a long and 
very painful illness.
	Deceased was born March 7th, 1860. She was
a very interesting and intelligent girl, much

[Column 3]

beloved by her associates. During her sickness
she many times expressed her gratitude to her
mother for her tender care and devoted atten-
tion to her. Her last words were blessing and
thanking her mother for her kindness. She
passed away peacefully, fully resigned to the
will of her Father in Heaven, and with a full
assurance of a resurrection with the just.
	H. C.


THE ANTI-POLYGAMY PETITION.
	The ladies confess, in their address, that Con-
gress has utterly failed to put down Polygamy.
I would here ask the question, What is the 
cause of their failure?  It certainly is not be-
cause they have been negligent in proposing
plans, in laying schemes or in enacting laws.
No! not by any means; for most assuredly they
have been diligent workers in their master's
cause.  The answer is simple, but truly signifi-
cant- this is God's work.  He hath commanded
that the law of Celestial Marriage shall be ob-
served, and who shall disannul it?  What is 
the puny arm of man?  "It is like the bubble
in the brook."
	Again, they are horrified that an Apostle,
with four acknowledged wives, should be al-
lowed to sit in Congress.  Poor righteous souls!
How can they ever associate with the God of
Abraham? For we read in the good old Bible
that he was the friend of God, and in his seed
all the nations of the earth are to be blessed.
And how can their righteous souls ever stoop
to enter through the pearly gates of the New
Jerusalem, whereon shall be inscribed the 
names of the twelve Patriarchs noted polyga-
mists, and of polygamic descent?  Anti-polyg-
amists, do you believe the Bible?  If you do,
you will see by perusing its pages that polyga-
mists were eminently favored of God.  The
Lord appeared to Jacob when he was traveling
with his four wives, and blest him, and said,
"Thou art a prince, and hast power with God."
Also, God said unto Abraham, "This shall be a 
memorial unto all generations, that I am the
God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob."
	Again, "Gentiles are not admitted into the 
Endowment House, or Temples.  "O fools, and
slow of heart."  Know ye not that in the Mo-
saic dispensation none were permitted to enter
into the Holiest of Holies, except the High
Priests, and that only once a year.  And when-
ever God has a people holding the Holy Priest-
hood here on earth, they have holy places
wherein to administer in holy ordinances per-
taining therunto. And let the Gentiles be-
ware, and remember the fate of the Philis-
tines in connection with the ark of God.
	One question- What have these Christian
ladies to give us in lieu of Polygamy?  I will
answer for them, for the results of Monogamy
cry aloud, corruption, degradation, death, adul-
tery, illegitimacy, infanticide and all manner
of abominations follow in the train of Social 
Evil. And of this class are those who fight
against Apostles and Prophets, on whose head
shall be the blood of all the Prophets and of all
the slain of the earth, for as their fathers did
so do they; for the same wicked spirit is in
their hearts.  Under the scarlet cloak of Chris-
tianity they build up churches to dead Saints,
and if they lived in their midst they would
persecute them.
Another question- Sisters, shall we give up
Plural Marriage, or any other principle of Mor-
monism?  No! Echo answers No!  From
every mother and daughter in Israel; we shall
stand boldly for the cause of truth and virtue.
Our cause is just and in God is our trust.  Men
may bring trouble upon us, but God is able to
deliver us; we have proved Him in days that
are past.  Ever praying for the prosperity of 
Zion,				MARY FERGUSON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
POLITENESS TO WIVES.
I have been led to reflect, by the many
incidents that have come under my obser-
vation, that there is a woful delinquency in
the common courtesies between husbands
and wives.  I have often said that polite-
ness is as essential to happiness as religion.
True religion polishes and refines the soul.
If a man cannot afford to be as polite to his
own wife, and treat her with as much re-
spect as he does his neighbor's wife, he does
not merit the appellation of husband.  Lan-
guage is too barren to express the indigna-
tion I feel when I hear a man speak in a
disrespectful manner to the mother of his
children.  The being who, by every species
of tenderness, he won for his bride, to
identify her existence with his, to risk the 
happiness and peace of her whole life in
his keeping; whom above all women on the
earth he should honor.  To hear him speak
in a coarse, harsh tone of voice, uttering
unhallowed and ungodly words of reproach
for a small offense, which the poor woman
had inadvertently committed, without the
least design af offending him, and this
perhaps in presence of their children, thus
wounding her pride; for what woman does
not feel dignified and elevated to have her
children see that their father honors her in
her position, as the presiding genius of his
household. When I witness the reverse of 
this, and I see an amiable, care-worn wo-
man treated like a servant, and even with
less respect, it reconciles me to the princi-
ple of plural marraige. I reason thus.
"Well, I know there are good men, culti-
vated and refined, who know enough to
treat their wives with kindness and polite-
ness; let them have all the good women,
and let the tyrants go without any.  I am
happy in remembering some good men I 
have known in this world.  I once resided
in a family for a year or more, the man
constantly at home, and not a harsh, unkind
word did I hear from the lips of the hus-
band towards the dear woman he had
chosen in his youth for a companion during 
this natural life: nothing beyond this life
did he know of the holy estate of matri-
mony.
 Another instance I will relate.  A young
man married a wife and moved her home
to his father's house to live with a large
family of brothers and sisters.  He wished
her to be honored by his relatives, and was
therefore thoughtful enough to guard him-
self against over uttering a reproving word
to her in their presence.  If in her deport
ment she sometimes tell short of his high-
est approval, he would appear not to notice
it till they were alone, and then remind
her in a gentle manner, and request her to 
be more guarded in future.  Seeing how 
wise he was made her doubly watchful.
She was ever mindful of St. Paul's injunc-
tion, "Let the wife see that she reverence
her husband."  She felt that his motive
was to give no license to his kindred to
reprove her.
 I remember a sea captain in the Society
Islands; rough as that class of men generally
are, there was one gentleman among them
by the name of McClain.  He married a Tahi-
tian native woman, and in process of time
brought her on a voyage to San Francisco, to
let her see a little of the world.  The ladies of
that city told me of his extreme politeness
to his tawny wife.  He took the utmost
pains to make her feel at ease among stran-
gers and white women, and really devoted
more attention to her than he would to one
who felt herself his equal.  The ladies were
ardent in his praise, saying, "How gentle-
manly it was in the captain, that instead of 
leaving her on board the vessel, or at the 
boarding house, and flirting with other
women (as many of his class would have
done), he paid her the polite attentions due
to a polished white woman."  And her na-
tural tendency to good sense taught her to
honor her husband.  And how could she do
otherwise, when having so noble an exam-
ple in one who, though her superior, treated
her as an equal.  And that was right; she
was his wife, a woman of integrity, amia-
ble and confiding, though untutored in the 
arts of modern civilization, she had natural
talents capable of a high development.
It is written of General Washington that
his most intimate friends never knew him
to be remiss in heightened courtesy to his
life companion.  Joseph Smith was another
example, as I learned from one long an in-
timate friend of his family.  Samuel R.
Wells won respect and admiration in Salt
Lake City by his thoughtful solicitude and
true politeness to his wife.
Alas!  How much of peace and happiness
is forfeited by a careless inattention to the 
laws made to govern male and female in
their matrimonial alliances.  May God speed
the day and help us to prepare for a higher
civilization.             L. B. P. BEAVER.


REPORT OF A MISSIONARY TOUR.

	Sisters E. R. Snow, E. Howard and E.
Davis left Salt Lake City on the morning of
the 12th of October last, and arrived in
East Portage, Malad Valley, in the evening.
Visited the Relief Societies in Malad City,
Samaria, St. Johns, Cherry Creek, West
Portage and East Portage, where they as-
sisted in reorganizing the Society.
	On the 22nd, they returned to Ogden,
where Sister Howard took the train on the 
Utah Central for home, and on the morning
of the 23rd, Sisters Snow and Davis went
to Morgan City, and on the 24th attended
the first quarterly conference of the Relief
Societies of Morgan County Stake.
	In that county they visited Weber and
Croyden; and in Summit County, Henne


ferville, Echo, Coalville, Wanship, Rock-
port, Peoa, Kamas and Almy, where they
organized a Y. L. M. I. Association, thence
to Evanston. On the 4th of November,
Sister Davis returned to Salt Lake City in
the evening, while Sister Snow remained
to assist in organizing a Relief Society in
that place, and returned home the following
day, having attended in all thirty meet-
ings. 
	The weather was favorable, and the peo-
ple everywhere were delighted to see the
sisters, who came as missionaries to the
Relief Societies and Young Ladies' Associ-
ations.


THE PHYSIOLOGIST AND FAMILY
		PHYSICIAN.

ORGAN OF THE NEW YORK PHYSIOLOGICAL
	SOCIETY. A MONTHLY SIXTEEN PAGE
	QUARTO. THE ONLY HOME HEALTH JOUR-
	NAL PUBLISHED IN THE NEW WORLD TO-
	DAY.

	Its mission is to popularize the subject of
physiology, and be a harbinger of healing
for the household, a physician for the peo-
ple.
	Its grand, single purpose is to elevate and
bless human kind by promulgating truths
which. lie at the very foundation of the
earthly well being of man, and which the
whole world would be benefited by know-
ing and practicing.
	Its department of "Emergencies" make
it a cheap and ready work of reference in
cases of sudden sickness when a doctor may
not be within reach at the moment of need.
Special attention is given to antidotes and
means to be used in cases of poisoning, and
every number contains explicit directions
for the nursing and medical treatment of
diseases to which every family is subject at
some time.
	The Domestic department is crammed with
invaluable hints for the household, recipes
for cooking, etc, etc.
	The columns devoted to the Inquirer make
it an unexampled cyclopædia of practical
and needed knowledge; while those devoted
to popular Literature and general Reform
are unexcelled by any journal of the day.
	Subscription Price, $1,50 per year.
Single Copies 15 Cents.
	All the back numbers for six months from
the beginning of the Volume Fifty Cents.
	Address all subscriptions and communica-
tions to
		SARA B. CHASE, M. D., Editor.
	Physiological Rooms, 102 West 38 Street,
New York.


New York has twice as many women
printers as five years ago.
	Of the 470 students now in the Ohio
Wesleyan University 140 are ladies.
	THE woman suffragists throughout
Indiana are organizing in Congressional
districts.
	Mme. Litvinow, a Russian lady, has
received the degree of doctor of philosophy
from the University of Berne. She passed
her examination with such brilliancy, espec-
ially in mathematics, that the faculty unan-
imously agreed to attach the highest mark,
—"Cum summa laude"—to her diploma.


[--]	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SO MUCH TO DO.

O where is my little daughter?
	She cannot be far away,
For only just now I heard her
	Sweet voice at her happy play.
"O! I am right here, dear mama,
	What is it you want with me?
Only I don't think I can do it,
	I'm busy as I can be."

Why, what in the world is't, tell me?
	What wonderful thing and new,
That my pet can't help me a little,
	When I have so much to do?
"Why, there's so much play to be done;"
	Then added in graver way,
"And there's so much that I don't think I
	Can finish it all to-day."

O soul of my little daughter!
	That opened a door of light,
Though the afternoon swift was passing.
	With its unfinished tasks, to night.
So busy with airy castles,
	So rich, with her trifling toys,
Not counting their cost, or measure;
	Content with the present joys.

No miser that counts his treasures
	So happy and restless as she;
For hers are o'erflowing and countless,
	And stainless, and bright as can be;
And she trembles not that she may lose them,
	Nor hesitates to divide;
Nor questions the future's providing,
	For her trust, like her joy, is wide.

And so one who never read books,
	And never professed to be wise,
Has silenced my troubled spirit,
	And strengthened my weary eyes,
My day, too, is full of blessings,
	Its joys, as well as its care,
Cannot all be held in one day,
	But shall make another fair.

And I saw how e'en my own life
	Must unfinished pass to the next;
And the undone tasks around me
	No longer my spirit vexed;
And so while the birds low twittered,
	While the twilight shades fell 'round,
I'd time to spend with my dear ones,
	For my heart a rest had found.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
S. L. City, Nov. 19th, 1878.


[For the EXPONENT.
		PLURAL MARRIAGE.

	Since there has been such an excitement in
Salt Lake City recently over a supposed plural
marriage, it has caused me to ask myself the
question, Why is it that those who are not of
our faith will not give us credit for being sin-
cere; when we declare it to be a part of our
faith as much as baptism? I try to put the
most charitable construction on their views,
and suppose they judge us from their stand-
point. "Having eyes they see not, and ears
but understand not." If they would humble
themselves, and obey the Gospel with good
and honest hearts, they would understand
what they read, and the Scriptures would be
as a new book to them.
	I remember, in Nauvoo, being asked what I
would think if I should hear of an Elder tak-
ing more wives than one? I replied that I
would not think it at all strange, as we read in
the Bible that they did so anciently, and David,
"a man after God's own heart, sinned not in
this, save only in coveting the one wife of
Uriah." There are very many in this Church
who, from circumstances, are not practical
polygamists, yet believe and respect, and
would defend the principle just as readily as
those who have entered into it, if necessary.
That it is a great trial none will deny, to both
men and women, and much more to some than
others; and those who do not believe as we do
need not suppose that the Mormon women
would submit to it any more willing[-]y than
they, did they not believe it to be a command
from heaven; and knowing this they rely on


the Lord for his Spirit to help them, and when
men and women enter into it purely from these
motives they are sustained by the Holy Spirit,
the Comforter, and are sometimes a wonder to
themselves.
	But many who are scarcely worthy of one
wife enter into it recklessly, without realizing
the great responsibility they are assuming; to
such it is liable to bring more trouble than
blessings.
	What greater sacrifice can a woman make
than to be willing to divide the affections of
her husband with another? And yet many do
so cheerfully, and after living together for
years would not be separated on any considera-
tion, for they can be and are a comfort to each
other in times of trouble and sickness. There
are many men in this Church who, were it
not for this privilege, would not have a child
to bear their name, yet now have large fami-
lies.
	Before closing I would refer to an article in
a back number of the EXPONENT taken from
"Woman's Words," in which the writer seemed
to be seeking for a religion which was tangible.
I thought, on reading it, if she would only
obey the Gospel she would find just what she
is seeking. I do not wonder that the religions
of the day do not satisfy those who belong to
the various churches, for to me much of it is
superficial. The ministers preach for hire and
set at naught the things of God.
				ELIZABETH BENTLEY.
	St. George, Nov. 9th.


MRS. ANNA D. C. HARDY read a paper last
Saturday evening, at MRS. SARGENT'S, on "Elo-
cution Taught Physiologically," or the proper
training of the human voice. This system of
developing and training the vocal organs, reach[-]
es far beyond the throat, and includes the
lungs and the digestive organs. It has been
used for some time, with great success, by the
best teachers of singing, and they have had,
besides their pupils in singing, many men
suffering from what is usually called minister's
sore throat. This throat trouble, which afflicts
so many teachers and public speakers, can, in
most cases be entirely cured, or greatly relieved
by the proper use of the vocal organs. MRS.
HARDY is an enthusiastic teacher, fresh from
her own studies; she has the endorsement of
Dr. Holmes, Governor Rice, Proffessor Emer-
son. Miss Abby May, Miss Lucia Peabody and
Miss Lucretia Crocker, and can be cordially
commended to all who would avoid weakness
or horseness of voice. She is at 52 Bowdoin
street—Womans Journal.


NOTICE TO ALL!
P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY COODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.
New Goods for the Fall and Winter 1878.

	AN Immmense Stock of those cheap and durable white
and red, twilied and plain FLANNELS,
jus received from the Provo Mills.  Also Dress Flannels,
Waterproofs, Linseys, Blankets, Jeans, Yarns, Cloths,
D[-]uble, Single and Shoulder Shawls, Trunks, Brooms,
Tinware Shoes Dixie otton Batting, and o her goods,
at the Commission House.
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY.  The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Pushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes.  Country dealers,
please call.  Ladies' Hair work in all its branches.  Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods.  Etc., Etc.

	WINTER GOODS
		DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets;
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
TEASDEL'S

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
			Saleroom to
	NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.
John Taylor, Pres't.       Wm. Jennings. Vice-Pres't.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N.
Manufacturers and Dealers in
	BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward. Salesroom and Factory, at the 
BIG BO[-]T!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt 
Lake City  All those who d[-]sire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time pu[-]chase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliable quality at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders o
WM. H. ROWE,
SUPERINTENDENT.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

