Vol. 7.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEB. 1, 1979.	No. 17.


OLD SONGS.
Air, "I'm leaving thee in sorrow, Annie"
Oh! how a simple song can waken
Forgotten old-time scenes,
That come with pathos nearly breaking
The heart that on them leans,
Old songs! old songs!  I cannot hear them,
But stealing to my heart
Come memories once breathing near them,
That will not thence depart.
CHORUS.
Old songs, lie silent in the bygones,
Ye only waken pain;
For joys now past beyond recalling,
Or woes awake again.
Oh! faded hopes, once bright and shining,
Upborne by wings of prayer:
Oh! faded love, with hope entwining,
Pure as the sunlit air,
Ye waken from the long, long sleeping
At the sunset Luriel call;
And worldly eyes again are weeping
Beneath sons music thrail.
CHORUS.
AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
JOSEPHINE, WIFE OF NAPOLEON I,
AND EMPRESS OF FRANCE.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

CONTINUED.

	Eugene, whose temperament though re-
served was enthusiastic, and whose rever-
ential admiration of his father's character
had already taken deep root in such a dis-
position, learning this fact, determined on
recovering so precious a relic. Though
only fourteen, he presented himself with
boldness and address at the Levee of the
Commander-in-chief, requesting the restora-
tion of his father's sword. The counte-
nance and frank bearing of the boy pleased
the young soldier, who immediately, with
his own hand, restored the object of filial
solicitude. Kissing the sword, Eugene
thanked him with a flood of grateful tears,
calling him his indulgent benefactor—and
all this in a manner so simple and touching
that General Bonaparte was charmed with
his behavior.
	On the morrow Madame de Beauharnais
called at the Hotel of Head-quarters to
thank the General for his condescension to
her son. Bonaparte returned the visit; he
was a man of fastidious taste, but was at
once charmed with the graceful manner of
Josephine, and from that time a friendship
sprang up between them that never ceased
but with their lives.
	Napoleon and Josephine were married
March 9th, 1790, by the revolutionary forms
at that time in force. Twelve days after
he set out for Italy, as Commander-in-chief
of the Republican armies in that country.
His numerous letters to her during this re-
markable campaign breathe the most ro-
mantic passion, expressed in the most ar-
dent language. During his absence she led
a life of seclusion, devoted to the education
of her children; she was the most loving
mother, and her children returned her love
with affection and obedience.
	In this brief memoir only the veriest
outline of her eventful life can be given.

[Column 2]

Napoleon was now rapidly rising to the re-
markable eminence which he at last at-
tained,and Josephine and her children rose,
of course in the same ratio; he was ever
watchful over their promotion and interests
as though they had been his own children,
and Josephine ever spoke of his goodness
to them with the warmest gratitude. Na-
poleon rose from General to First Consul,
and at last Emperor of France, and among
his first acts he raised Eugene and Hortense
to titles of royalty; and in future days the
former was made Viceroy of Italy, and the
latter became Queen of Holland by marry-
ing Napoleon's brother, Louis, whom he
had made King of Holland. Eugene sub-
sequently married the Princess Royal of
Bavaria, which proved a most happy alli-
ance. At this time Josephine had attained
the acme of human happiness and grand-
eur—"the sharer of one of the most
splendid European thrones, beloved by the
wonderful man who had placed her there,
adored by the French nation, and respected
even by enemies." Her children occupied
stations second only to her own, and a pros-
pect that they would succeed to Empire
when death should relax the giant grasp
that now swayed the sceptre. It was a
cruel disappointment to Napoleon and Jo-
sephine that they had no child to inherit
their throne. The first child of Hortense
was remarkably beautiful and very intelli-
gent; he was named Napoleon Charles.
Napoleon loved him with intense affection,
and gave many assurances that he should
be his heir! But "man proposes and God
disposes"—death seized this child of so
many hopes and prayers at the age of five
years, to the great sorrow of all his family.
Before the birth of this child Napoleon had
named Eugene as his heir, repeatedly say-
ing he was worthy of a crown. Josephine
felt disconsolate, for she began to feel the
dark destiny that was approaching her, even
in her exalted position, which the life of
this child would have averted. The second
child of Hortense was to be the child of
destiny—this grandson of Josephine, Louis
Napoleon, in after years became Emperor
of France, whose eventful life is the sub-
ject of this present age.
	Now commenced the beginning of the
mighty end of her regal life! Napoleon
himself announced to Josephine that a di-
vorce was necessary, that he might found a
new dynasty to this—an heir to his Empire
was imperative! Her suffering at first were
exquisite; it seemed like the separation of
soul and body, this parting from the hus-
band she loved so well! She also loved
France, was as patriotic as he could be.
What joy and satisfaction would she have
experienced could she have known and
been permitted to embrace such a princi-
ple as Celestial Marriage. Freely would
she have given the Austrian Princess,
Maria Louisa, to her husband, could she
still have retained the name of wife; his
"friend," as she had ever fondly called
herself—yes, his friend and counselor as
she had ever been; and Napoleon would
have shared her feelings, for she was most
assuredly the wife of his heart. As it was
she stands as the noblest self-sacrificing
woman on record, for she had no God-given

[Column 3]

principle on which to fall back for support.
Still the eye of God was visibly upon her,
and His Spirit sustained her, or she could
not have passed the fiery ordeal with the
fortitude and sweet dignity that shone
through every deportment, while the iron
pierced her own soul! She lived to see and
bless the boy whom Napoleon himself an-
nounced as "the King of Rome" at the
hour of his birth. The child was often
permitted to visit her, and Napoleon was
ever kind and considerate to her, and by
every means in his power ever sought to
benefit and bless her, and this, to her lov-
ing heart, was all she desired.	
	Time rushed on! Napoleon again be-
came an exile, by the failure of his Rus-
sian expedition. Maria Louisa declined to
follow him in his fallen fortunes—it was
the Emperor she married, the man was
nothing to her in his adversity. Josephine,
the true woman, the devoted wife, writes
to him when passing into exile, every
word of which ought to be written in gold;
she desired to follow him into exile, that
she might attend upon him and console
him. She concludes with these words:
"Adieu, Sire; it is no longer by words that
my sentiments for you are to be proven,
but for action your consent is necessary!"
	Every attention was still paid to her as
the ex-Empress, and Malmaison was still
her residence; but her mind was constantly
excited by the knowledge that he who had
been her hero and her husband was an
exile! Her health delined; at first it was
not thought to be serious, she herself made
light of it; but a short time convinced her
friends, and then herself, that the final
scene was approaching. She was calm and
cheerful as ever, and on the 29th of May,
1814, her tried spirit passed to that land
"Where the wicked cease from troubling,
and the weary are at rest." At midday on
the 2d of June, 1814, the funeral moved
forward from Malmaison, and at 5 o'clock
in the evening the body of the Empress
Josephine was consigned to a humble
tomb in the village church of Ruel. The
spot is now marked by a monument of white
marble, and bears the simple yet touching
inscription—
"EUGENE AND HORTENSE TO JOSEPHINE."


THE committee of the National Woman's
Suffrage Association, appointed to wait upon
the President were received very cordially by
him. After the memorial had been presented
by the suffrage ladies, the two ladies from Utah
addressed the President, urging him not to
sign the bill now pending in committees of the
House and Senate.
	The entire interview was conducted by the
ladies in a calm manner, and distinguished
especially for the brevity each speaker observed
in presenting an array of facts, with a determi-
nation to occupy as little of the valuable time
of the President as possible. Before they rose
to leave, he asked them if he should bring Mrs.
Hayes in to see them, this was joyfully accept-
ed, and after the President withdrew,
leaving his wife with them, a pleasant talk was
had with her by the Mormon ladies. Mrs.
Hayes, when the ladies rose to go, showed
them all the bedrooms in the House, and had
them conducted through the conservatories.
Our Utah delegates have been before the Judi-
ciary committees of both the House and Senate,
and have presented to them the facts of the
Mormon case in writing.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	Kanab Jan. 6, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	June 9, 1878.—The Relief Society of the
different wards were organized into a 
Stake Society, under the direction of Pres.
L. John Nuttall, E. Nuttall was appointed
president, H. Bunting and L. A. Johnson
Counselors, M. E. Little Secretary, L. A.
Johnson Assistent Secretary and E. H. D.
Solomon Treasurer. Since then Pres. Nut-
tall and her Counselors have organized
Relief Societies in three other wards Glen-
dale, orderville and Pahreah. The first
Quarterly Conference of the Relief Socities
of the Kanab Stake of Zion, was held in
the Kanab School House Dec. 6, 1878. Pres.
E. Nuttle presided. There were also pres-
ent Pres. H. Bunting of the Kanab ward,
and Pres. J. Johnson of Johnson ward.
There were present by invitation Pres. L.
J. Nuttall and Bishop W. D. Johnson Jun.
The meeting was called to order by Pres.
E. Nuttall. After singing and prayer, the
Secretary read the statistical and financial
reports of the six ward societies in the
stake, the table is as follows.
No. of members enrolled...............258
Average attendance........................123
No. of meetings held......................  72
Total of receipts........................$ 88 69
Disbursments:
To the poor...............................        .25
To Manti Temple.....................$   53 50
For sundries.............................$     8 60
Total disbursments...................$   62 35
We have in the Treasury:
Cash.........................................$  10 00
Wheat, 22 bu...........................$   63 00
Beans, 35 lbs...........................$     1 40
Merchandise............................$   26 90
Sundries..................................$  116 24
Total in the Treasury...............$  217 54
Sister Nuttall said she wished the sisters
to speak as the spirit dictated. Pres. John-
son gave a good report of her ward, and
said the sisters were trying to do all the
good they could. Pres. Bunting made
some timely remarks in reference to home
manufacture, the storing of grain, raising
of beans seri culture &c. She earnestly ex-
horted the sisters to speak well of plural
marriage, for it is a pure and holy principle
and should not be spoken of lightly. The
Glendale ward was represented by Sister
Stuart, the President of the teachers. Pres.
L. J. Nuttall spoke of the great responsi-
bility of mothers in raising their children.
He said the impressions made in childhood
were seldom, if ever erased. We remem-
ber the sayings and doings of our mothers,
when we forget all others. Let the father
help the mother, and the mothers teach
the children to emulate their fathers, in all
good works. He told mothers not to keep
their daughters in ignorance of things they
ought to know, from a sense of mock mod-
esty. He made other excelent remarks, on
the Woman's Mass Meeting in Salt Lake
City, home manufacture, storing of grain
and other matters of interest.
	Bishop W. D. Johnson expressed much
pleasure in meeting with the sisters, there
was such a quiet peaceful spirit in their
meeting. He gave them great credit for
the help they had been to him. He wished
them to treasure up the good counsels they
had received.
	Pres. E. Nuttall said she was thankful
for the good counsel from Brothers Nuttall

[Column 2]

and Johnson, she hoped the sisters would
carry the good spirit home with them, and
so speak of this meeting that it will be an
incentive to the sisters not present, that at
the next conference there may be a full
attendance. Sang "How firm a Founda-
tion." Benediction by Sister Bunting.
	Our Pres. E. Nuttall and her Counselors
H. Bunting and L. A. Johnson are energet-
ic live women, their greatest desire is to
help build up the Kingdom, benefit their
fellow creatures and work out the problem
of life and salvation.
	M. E. Little Stake Sec'y.

	Minutes of a meeting celebrating the
first anniversary of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
the 17th Ward, held at the residence of
Mrs. Elerbeck. Jan. 16th, 1879.
	There were present, as visitors, Sisters
M. Hyde, Z. D. Young, B. Smith, M.
Freaze, H. T. King and others. The meet-
ing was opened by singing "The Spirit of
God like a Fire is Burning;" prayer by Sis-
ter Zina D. Young, followed by singing.
	The Yearly Report being called for, was
read and accepted, after which a short pro-
gramme was carried out, consisting of
piano solos, recitations,essays, songs &c. On
invitation from the Pres. Sisters Hyde,
Zina D. Young; Mary Freeze and others ad-
dressed the association for a short time.
much instruction and excellent advice were
given; the general tone of which urged the
necessity of exercising faith, relying on
God for assistance, however small the un-
dertaking, and as all young ladies look for-
ward to becoming wives, they should pre-
pare themselves for the holy office of
mother-hood, becoming proficient to teach
those principles that lead to the exaltation
and happiness of the human family. The
time being well spent, the meeting was
brought to a close by singing and prayer.
The company repairing to the supper-table.
where a bounteous repast was enjoyed by
all.
	Sedenia Pack Sec'y.

	PARIS BEAR LAKE Co. IDAHO.
		Jan. 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 3rd inst. the 2nd ward R. S. of
this place celebrated anniversary of its or-
ganization, in a very agreeable manner. At
5 oclock p. m. the sisters accompanied by
their husbands and friends, assembled in
the School House, which was tastefully
decorated for the occasion, and partook of
a bountiful supper. After supper the gen-
eral monthly meeting was held, at which,
the report of the year was read; and ad-
dresses, containing good instruction, were
given by Pres. C. C. Rich, Bishops R. Price,
H. J. Horne, Pres. Maria Rich, and coun-
selors Mrs, Collins and Eliza Rich of Paris
1st ward R. S. and others.
	The remainder of the evening was spent
in dancing, singing &c. Judging from the
countenances of those present, all thorough-
ly enjoyed themselves: indeed it was truly
enjoyable to see the old folks of "three
score and ten" and upwards joining heartily
in the dance with those of younger years;
and to hear the expressions of delight and
good feeling, from all present.
	P. T. O.
	The following is a condensed report of
the one before referred to:—
	Yearly Statement of Paris 2nd ward R. S.
Dec. 31st 1878.
To property on hand Jan.1 1878....$113 00
Property made, bought, and donated
	by members to date.................   43 00

[Column 3]

Cash &c. donated from members
	Society.................................  44 48 1/2
Cash &c. denoted from members
for Logan Temple........................  31 82
Amt. of div'd drawn on Coop store 2 00
and candles..................................    6 30
                                                     240 59 1/2
By property disbursed................$    6 70
Transfer of 15 bu. of wheat to
wheat acc't..................................    18 00
Property on hand........................   131 30
Cash &c. given to the sick.........     18 76
Cash paid for drapery &c...........     29 60
Cash paid for stationary.............       1 30
Cash butter &c. paid to Logan
Temple.......................................     25 85
Balance—Cash &c. on hand......       9 08 1/2
                                                     -------------
                                                     240 59 1/3

	WHEAT ACCOUNT
To transfer from property acc't......15 bu.
Donations from members..............19 1/4
Total                                             344
Your sisters in the Gospel of Christ.
	MARY ANN SHEPHERD Pres.
	EMILY M. SHEPHERD Sec'y.

	FILLMORE CITY. Jan. 8, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the sisters of the first ward of Fill.
more Relief Society were organized Nov.
14, 1877 by Pres. J. N. Hanckley and Coun-
selors. When the following named sisters
were elected:
	R. M. Pratt President
	Sarah L. Partridge	Counselors.
	Jean Holbrook
	F. M. Brown Secretary.
	Martha Robison Treasurer.
	There are sixty six members and officers
enrolled, we hold our meetings three times
a month, our general meetings are held the
first Thursday in each month.
	FINANCIAL REPORTS.
Total receipts...................................$182 23
Disbursed to the needy....................$124 75
To Manti Temple..............................$ 11 50
Wheat, mulbery cuttings, work &c..$ 15 60
Cash on hand....................................$ 47 53
Provision..........................................$    2 00
Total.................................................. 201 38
	Leaving a ballance of:.............$   20 85
Wheat stored............ ..............107bu. 50 lbs
All seem willing to do all in their power
for the advancement of the work in which
we are engaged, and a spirit of love and
union seems to prevail. We feel it impor-
tant to be up and doing, as we look at the
spirit of the times, and we realize that we
must be humble and faithfull to be able to
stand.
	Very respectfully.
			B. M. Pratt Pres.
		F. M. Brown Sec'y.


The Herald of Health records the fact that
Harriet Hosmer, the eminent sculptress and may-
be inventor, is the only surviving member of a fam-
ily of six or seven children.  She was the young-
est child in a family of strong hereditary consump-
tive tendencies.  When all the other children had
died of this disease the father took his last one,
Harriet from school and encouraged her to en-
gage in vigorous out-door sports.  Thus she was
saved to a life of usefulness; and the same plan
would save many others who die of slow con-
sumption.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TIRED MOTHERS

	A little elbow leans upon your knee -
		Your tired knee that has so much to bear;
	A child's dear eyes are looking lovingly
		From underneath a thatch of tangled hair.
	Perhaps you do not heed the velvet touch
		Of warm, moist fingers, folding yours so tight;
	You do not prize this blessing overmuch 
		You almost are too tired to pray to-night.

	But it is a blessedness.  A year ago
		I did not see it as I do to-day
	We are so dull and thankless, and too slow
		To catch the sunshine till it slips away.
	And now it seems surpassing strange to me
		That, while I wore the badge of motherhood
	I did not kiss more oft and tenderly
		The little child that brought me only good.

	And if, some night, when you sit down to rest
		You miss this elbow from your tired knee,
	This restless, curly head from off your breast,
		This lisping tongue that chatters constantly;
	If from your own the dimpled hands had slipped,
		And ne'er would nestle in your palm again;
	If the white feet into the grave had tripped,
		I could not blame you for your heartache then.

	I wonder so that mothers ever fret
		At little children clinging to their gown;
	Or that the footprints, when the days are wet,
		Are ever black enough to make them frown.
	If I could find a little muddy boot,
		Or cap, or jacket on my chamber floor;
	If I could kiss a rosy, restless foot,
		And hear its patter in my home once more.

	If I could mend a broken cart to-day,
		To-morrow make a kite to reach the sky
	There is no woman in God's world could say
		She was more blissfully content than I
	But ah! the dainty pillow next my own
		Is never rumpled by a shining head:
	My singing birdling from its nest is flown:
		The little boy I used to kiss is dead. 
									- SELECTED.


<o .ituu:="" .—i="" 1="" ’y="" 11—r———="" pnlob="" fllajvqjxat'!by="" theky2cy.1’w="" aio="" lovlt="" ,="">			CHAT BY THE WAY.

	Learn to adapt yourself to circumstances;
circumstances cannot adapt themselves to
you. There was a preacher once, so the
papers say, who was better able to accom-
modate himself to circumstances than any
one we have lately heard of.  His sermon
were as well assorted as the colors of the
rainbow; if he was invited to a Presbyte-
rian pulpit, he selected his manuscript from
the true blue; if to a Calvinistic pulpit, he
chose one from the yellow, the color of fire;
and if to a Universalist pulpit - for he is
many sided, and bright on all sides, and is
not so prejudiced but he can preach any
where when the fee is alluring - he takes a
sermon from some of the paler and more
indistinct colors.  He works on the Euro-
pean plan, giving to each church whatever
it wants and will pay for.  Yes, he adapted
himself to circumstances, but we know a
better minister than that, and something
better than adapting oneself to circum-
stances, it is knowing how to occupy one's
time. This minister we were speaking of
used to say to his flock, "Brethren, you
may desire to know how I have occupied
my time during the past year.  It took just
six months of the year for me to attend to
my own business, and the other six months
to let other people's business alone."
	Don't tell secrets to any one, not even
your best friend; for "A secret once told is
a secret no longer," and we once heard a
young lady say that she dearly loved to
have some one confide a great secret in her,
for then she always had something inter-
esting to talk about at the next sewing bee.
Our advice is don't have secrets.
Don't sulk over split milk, it does not
pay. Some men, when they have split
their milk on the ground, sit down by the
wet spot and dilute the lost lacteal fluid
with their briny tears; there is a lesson they
haven't learned yet that the boy who lost
his kite might teach them - at first he
thought he would cry about it, but imme-
diately afterward determined not to and
went home whistling; when asked if he
was not sorry to lose his treasure he re-
plied, "Yes, but I can't fool away much
time in being sorry; I'm just going to make
a new one, and I guess a better one." Chil-
dren tell us as much truth as the catechism.
A grave school inspector, with a face which
resembled the lengthened line of misery,
was trying to impress some infant minds
with awful facts; sternly looking into their
happy faces he asked, with "a voice from
the tombs," "Children, do you know who
loves all men?"  The silence was oppress-
ive for a moment, but the conundrum must
be answered, and one little bit of humanity
in the far-off corner timidly lifted her head.
"Ah!" glumly observed the tragic inspect-
or; "well, child, you will tell the whole
school who loves all men."  She rose,
stroked the wrinkles out of her pretty
white apron, and answered with a shrill
voice, "All women, sir!"
	Don't gossip; it isn't right.  Don't com-
mence it, for if ever you begin  it is the
hardest work in the world to stop.  The
hardest thing to get a good hold on is your
own tongue.  If you could only keep still
at the right time you would save yourself
many a heartache.  A young friend of
mine once remarked, on leaving the house
where several of her acquaintances were
visiting, "I did so hate to leave, I wonder
if any one there will speak good of me; do
you think they will criticise my appearance
and manner, or talk of what I have been
doing within the last week?"  "Both," re-
plied her companion; "they'll pick you all
to pieces."  At a reception not long ago,
the hostess seeing that the conversation was
dragging considerably, asked one of her
guests to go home so that the others might
have something to talk about.
	Never speak much of your own perform-
ances.  I knew a gentleman who used to
talk so much about his good singing that
when it was asked if he could sing people
used to say, "He says he can."
	Never fail to be punctual at the time ap-
pointed.  It is hardly necessary to elabor-
ate that theme, since it is so widely
preached.  Never make yourself the hero
of your own story.  Many a person has
failed to gain popularity from that one thing.
	Never exaggerate.  If exaggeration does
add color to your story, sometimes the
color spoils the cloth.  I'd much rather
have the true story than the hyperbole,
and who would not rather drink water than
paint. Color adds beauty, but it adds poi-
son too.


<j .="" i="" a="" 4ell<="" i.="" ,.thq="" .apostle,="" speajrs="" of="" jesus="" hayingeenf="" led="" up="" out’of'="" the="" spirit="" into="" ,="" wilderness="" to="" bq="" tempted="" by.="" doyijjlhai="" affep.past-="" ing="" forty="" days="" and="" nights="" hot="" wa’="" ari="" hung'red;="" whpreupon="" tempter="" camo‘="" tii'ana="" feald':1’ifthou="" be="" son="" god="" ctfmmdnd'that="" these="" stores="" made="" bread,”:="" buvho="" ans#dred="" saying,="" “man="" shall="" live="" by="" bread="" along,="" but="" by'every="" word,="" that'="" '“proefeds'outof="" mouth="" go(t.”this="" i3="" jft="" say="" ink="" "which="" wb="" have="" all="" heard="" probably="" many1="" tinio’f,="" -blit1="" thd="" puebtion="" naturally="" 'lv			TEMPTATION.

AN ESSAY READ AT THE MUTUAL IMPROVE-
	MENT ASSOCIATION OF THE YOUNG LA-
	DIES OF THE 17TH WARD.

	The apostle speaks of Jesus having been
led up out of the spirit into the wilderness
to be tempted by the devil; that after last-
ing forty days and forty nights he was an
hungered; whereupon the tempter came to
him and said: "If thou be the son of God
command that these stones be made bread,"
but he answered saying, "Man shall not
live by bread alone, but by every word that
proceeds out of the mouth of God."  This is
a saying which we have all heard probably
many times, but the question naturally
arises; Do we thoroughly understand the
Saviours answer as he intended it?  He
was so very comprehensive in his express-
ions which contained so much wisdom,
that in many of his sayings, far more is
meant than the mere words would seem to
convey. We all know and thoroughly rea-
lize that food alone is insufficient for the
physical and spiritual wellfare of mankind;
also the words of God set down for his
children to obey, must be implicitly follow-
ed by them to secure their future salvation.
None knew this better than the Saviour;
and, although possessing, as he undoubted-
ly did, the power to turn the stones into
bread, he chose to go hungry and follow
the promptings of the spirit, suffering him-
self to be taunted and tempted by satan
while in this condition, thus proving his
ability to resist the Arch Tempter while in
the weakest condition to do so physically.
	Christ proved the truth of his own saying
the instant he spoke it, for had he not lived
by every word his father gave him, how apt
would he have been to fall a victim to the
wiles and snares of his cunning adversary,
but by living up to every word of God in-
vulnerable on every point upon which his
adversary tempted him; thus doubly dem-
onstrating the fact of the correctness of his
answer.
	Though our temptations are of a different
nature to those of Jesus, we still have all
we are able to resist; even by living as the
Saviour said we should live, and as far as
we fail to comply with the laws of God, so
far do we surrender our power to the ad-
versary, and are so much less able to resist
the future attacks.
	Many of us perhaps pass along thought-
lessly and carelessly scoffing at the friendly
warnings given us, thinking that life is
short at best, and why not enjoy it as we
feel we can and may.  Life I own is a com-
paratively brief space, and the alloted life
of man but a brief moment compared to
eternity; still that fleeting moment is time
enough for us to earn for ourselves an eter-
nal glory, or endless perdition and suffering.
	Does it not seem to a reasoning mind,
that it would be far preferable for us to
study a cultivation of the spirit and a de-
sire within us to live as the Lord laid down
during our comparatively short stay in this
world, and thus earn an eternal, endless
glory, where all will be peace, joy, and
happiness, instead of foolishly giving way
to folly, fashion and the allurements and
snares of temptation.
 I don't think it would be entirely out of
place for me to say a little here about
charity. We sometimes find those among
us who may have been guilty of having
succumbed to the tempter, and have been
the greatest sufferers in consequence, how
often do we see the poor wanderer unable
to find sympathy; in the hearts of those
who should be foremost in giving it?
Charity, the Bible says: "Covereth a multi-
tude of sins," and I believe that to be a
gospel truth.
	While it is the duty of one and all to live
as the Saviour says by every word that pro-
ceeds out of the mouth of God; it is also
our duty to assist those whose weeknesses
are greater than our own; and instead of
crushing them deeper into the mire, en-
deavor by a kind charitable feeling full of
sisterly love, try to encourage and bring
them back to where we ourselves are.
Though we fail to accomplish our object en-
tirely, the motive stands recorded in the
great book above to our credit, and we are
in no way the losers therefore let us hope
we may be able to resist the many snares of
the tempter besetting our pathway in life,
and at the same time let us not forget to
cherish and endeavor to save those whose
weekness may carry them astray, giving
them sisterly love and charity.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - - - Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months,
1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers. 
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street.  Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 1, 1879.


[Column 1]
	"OVER THE HILLS AND FAR AWAY."

	On the third day of the New Year we bade
adieu for a short time to our "mountain home,"
and traveled as fast as steam and rail could
convey us towards the great Capitol of the
American notion.
	The first day from home, in passing through
the canons and along the narrow gorges, with
magnificent mountains on either side, we were
wrapt in admiration of the loftiness and grand-
eur of the wonderful old monumental rocks,
which make man, in his reverence for that
which is sublime, pay homage to the great
Creator of the universe.  They stood, towering
up above all the world, like old castles, towers
and battlements, and suggestively recalling to
memory the tales of good King Arthur and the
bearded knights of chivalry who dwelt in their
strongholds, securely fortified on all sides from
their enemies.  Our vivid imagination drew
many a quaint picture of what might have
transpired within these walls had these im-
mense stuctures of rock been petrified castles.
Of the harp and the lyre with which the gay
troubadour soothed the sorrows of the master,
while he made love to some beauteous maiden,
who, though rich in a noble name and a vast
inheritance, paid a loving tribute to genius,
and was captivated by the graces and gallantry
of a poor troubadour.
	Of the brave warriors, too, who made love
in a prouder fashion—who did bold deeds that
they might win the affection of some lady-love
whose heart could only be reached through her
admiration of fearlessness and courage.
	But we must not linger drawing these ideas
of romance upon paper to put before our read-
ers, who are longing to learn of the realities of
life itself in the far-famed city of Washington;
thus, while we might be enthusiastic over the
scenery on the Union Pacific, and even tell
them we saw a herd of antelope numbering
probably seventy beautiful, bright-eyed, grace-
ful little animals, our readers would impa-
tiently exclaim, "Why in the world don't she
tell us something about Washington?"
	Patience, good friends, all in good time—first
let us speak of the "noble Mississippi," which
so many long years ago we crossed in the dead
of winter on the ice, with a little handful of
poor, despised Mormons compelled to flee from
the hands of their assailants into a barren wil-
derness.  Our feelings in recalling these scenes
can only be appreciated by those who endured
the same fatigues, who shared the same perils.
	For the sake of coming sooner to the part of
our article which will be most readily devoured,
we will pass over all the beautiful scenery,
leave out descriptions of tunnels and snow-
sheds, and only tell you that the country on all
sides through the State of Pennsylvania must
in the leafy season of the year surpass all at-
tempts at description; even at this unpleasant

[Column 2]
season it stirred the latent fountains of poetry
in our nature, and called up the sediment
within to harmonize with the beautiful without.
	After dashing along at railroad speed for five
days and a half, we reached Washington Wed-
nesday m., so completely worn out for want of
sleep and rest that the bed was preferable to
luncheon in the fine hotel where our good
friends, the National Suffragists had quartered
during their stay at the Convention.
	Here we were cordially welcomed by Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, whose name is well
known to our readers, and Miss Susan B. An-
thony, whose name has rung from one end of
the country to the other in connection with
"woman's suffrage."  These good ladies sought
to make us feel perfectly at home; and when
soon after in came Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer,
whom we met face to face for the first time,
our heart went forth in great waves of love to
her for her courageous defense of the women
of Utah here in the Congress of the National
Capitol, and under the broad flag of freedom
to all men.  At some future time we may give
you pen sketches of these illustrious ladies, but
at present we can only glance at them and pass
on.  Mrs. Spofford, the hostess of the house,
also came to enquire kindly after our welfare,
hearing we had come off a long journey.
	The first evening after we arrived in Wash-
ington, a preliminary meeting of the N. W. S.
A. was held at the residence of Belva A. Lock-
wood, Attorney and Solicitor, and plans were
made for the two days' session.  Everything
seemed very strang to us—coming to a large
hotel full of people of fashion, grand old aristo-
crats from the north and the south.  Among
the number are some very fine looking elderly
men, who are members of the House and Sen-
ate.  Vice-President Wheeler is stopping here,
and several other eminent and distinguished
people, both men and women.
	Thursday morning, Jan. 9, in company with
Mrs. Stanton. Miss Anthony and Mrs. Spofford
we drove to Lincoln Hall.  Mrs. Stanton made
the opening speech.  She is very beautiful for
a woman of her years; her hair is magnificent,
and as she arranges it seems almost like a
crown. She was neatly and tastefully attired
in a figured satin dress with a train, which she
deems as necessity on account of her size, and
presided at the Convention of the N. W. S. A.
during the two days, and also evening sessions,
with a great deal of dignity, and never for one
moment lost her self-possession, not even when
a warm discussion took place between Fred.
Douglas, Marshall of the Dis. of Columbia,
and Mr. Pervis of Philadelphia, the last eve-
ning of the Convention.  In that respect she
reminded us very much of our dignified wo-
man leader, Miss E. R. Snow; yet in other re-
spects the two are very unlike.  Mrs. Stanton
is short and very plump; she is extremely
well-preserved, travels about and lectures as if
she were a young woman, (here is another
similarity between the two.)
	Miss Anthony is in every respect Mrs. Stan-
ton's opposite, except that they agree on the
woman question.  She is entirely different
from what one would fancy in reading about
her.  Upon the platform she wore a very rich
black silk dress trimmed with velvet and lace.
In many respects she is a very remarkable wo-
man.  She possesses great firmness and strength
of character, and is a famous talker; her voice
is not as pleasant as Mrs. Stanton's, but her
words are sharp and incisive, and she never
utters a sentence in public that is not calculat-
ed, from its construction, to strike deep at the
foundation of the evil of which she speaks.
Her best lecture delivered here was "Bread
and the Ballot."

[Column 3]
	Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage, in a very elegant
garnet colored silk dress, also delivered a very
strong speech—"United States Rights versus
States Rights."
	"Lillie Devereux Blake," correspondent of
New York and other papers, is another very
clever woman who knows how to talk and has
got something to talk about.  She also was ex-
tremely well dressed.
	Helen M. Cook, another lady correspondent
from New York, is evidetly a very talented
lady.  Indeed there were so many pleasing la-
dies of culture and ability it would be impossi-
ble to enumerate them in one short chapter.
Indeed, we have heard and seen so many peo-
ple and so much which deserves attention we
have a good stock in trade at the present date
of that sort of material, which is a powerful
element in newspaper articles.  Suffice it to
say we met ladies from nearly all parts of the
States, all very pleasant people, generous and
kindly in feeling, almost entirely without pre-
judice towards our people, because of the broad
platform on which they stand before the world.
They are noble women, with lofty aspirations
and intelligent ideas.  They have already ac-
complished a great deal in educating women
in the practical lessons of life.  One woman
more we must mention, and then we will
leave this chapter, but anon, kind friends, you
shall hear more about suffrage women.
	Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer must not be for-
gotten in our little paper, nor in Mormon his-
tory when it is written.  She possesses great
executive ability, has very good voice, is
gifted with fine expression, uses the choicest
words, and sums everything up in the most
concise and comprehensive manner.  She is
the woman who is behind the curtain doing
the work of a dozen women, all for the benefit
of her sex—and her heart is in it; everybody
who hears her speak knows she speaks from
the soul, and she has as fine talents as one
could ask for to make a mark in the world—to
win fame.  But she is slowly plodding in the
work of reform in this great city, and working
her way along against the woman of fashion,
the woman who don't want to vote, who's got
all the rights she wants; and by and by she's
going to win.  So much for the pioneer work-
ers in Woman's Suffrage.
	<E. B. Wells>


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A Most Happy Union. - Sister Eliza R.
Snow is one whom all delight to honor; and by
her uniform life of uncompromising integrity,
her labors of love and duty, she has earned
all the regard that is continually offered to her
On Jan 2lst she attained the age of 75 years,
and her sisters, with Mrs. Margaret P. Young
at their head, inaugurated a surprise party in
her honor. The large parlor of the Lion House
with its adjoining suite of rooms were thrown
open for the reception of the visitors, and every
part was filled by the large assembly. At 7
o’clock supper was announced, when the com-
pany adjourned to the dining room, where an
elegant table was spread with every luxury
needed for the reception and enjoyment of the
guests.
	Among the company were President John
Tayior and his wife, President Joseph Young
Presidents Franklin D. Richards and Angus
M. Cannon and wives. After returning to the
drawing room, addresses were offered by the
above named gentleman and several others;
several ladies also oflered addresses; music and
singing intervened, and some appropriate toasts
were given. Sister Snow then arose to express
her rich appreciation of all that had been


done and said in her honor; her feelings well-
nigh overcame her, but with that noble self-
command for which she is proverbial she soon
regained her wanted equanimity, and ex-
pressed herself most feelingly and with every
appreciation.  The company did not separate
till a late hour, each one  feeling it was indeed
"the communion of Saints."  All was love
and peace and harmony throughout the entire
evening - a time long to be remembered, or,
rather, never to ne forgotten.  God bless Sister
Snow, and may her future time be her pastime
a million times magnified.	H.T.K.
	THE LATEST local attraction of a dramatic
and musical character, and unique novelty in
the way of home productions, is the musical
burletta "THE LOVES OF WOLFENSTEIN,"
written by Messrs. O.F. and H.G. Whitney,
two young gentlemen of this city.  The piece
was composed especially for, and adapted to
the ability of the children of the 18th Ward
Sunday School, by whom it has been performed
twice with great success in the Social Hall, to
large and appreciative audiences.  The plot is
quite interesting, the language well chosen,
the dialogie being sprightly, witty, and bris-
tling with puns and local hits.  The music for
most part was selected from the leading operas
of the day; with this exception the production
is entirely original.  The corps of petite per-
formers in their portrayal of the various char-
acters transcended all expectation, and dis-
played a precocity of talent seldom found in
children of such tender years!  Mr. O. F.
Whitney  as conductor, and they and all
connected with the performance have good
reason to feel gratified at the decided success
attending their initial effort.
	ON THE 26th of Jan. the Seventeenth Ward
Sunday School held a Quarterly Review.  An
examination of the different classes was given,
to which great credit is due both on the part of
the teachers and scholars.  These, intermin-
gled with songs, readings and recitations, made
the afternon's performance very interesting to
the audience, which was not few in number;
and displayed talent and study on the part of
the performers.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DIED, at Union Salt Lake Co, Dec. 31st 1878.
of scarlet fever and sore throat, Laura Luretta
daughter of Marion H. and Lucy Ann Brady
aged six months and eight days.
	We deeply sympathize with the bereaved
family.


<i& was="" i.="" flpntjoduced.jnfo.her="" ‘jrkjrogh="" ;="" very="" youqg="" ,at="" the="" ilm,="" she'was="" amopg="" first="" tm.jearp.tbe="" difierpptj.mehcuils="" of;.prppar-="" i,="" ring="" cottpn,="" and="" iwof="" jt="" ipg,="" it="" up.,,shedpuhij="" also="" i="" el="" am.itar="" -fltory-="" cqpcerping="" thefir'st="" a="" ppear-="" uance)="" of="" ihprqef-made="" straw="" hata="" bonnets="" in="" ithat="" stat;auntil="" fho="" last="" "tw.q-="" year.of="" her="" iife:she="" was.'abj.ej="" between,="" spells="" (sickness,="" to="" l="">			  IN MEMORIAM.

	The following is presented as a tribute of re-
spect to the memory of the late Rhoda Rich-
ards, well known among a large circle of friends
as "Aunt Rhoda."
	She was born August 8th, 1784, in Hopkin-
ton, Middlesex Co., Massachusetts: was the
daughter of Joseph and Rhoda Howe Rich-
ards, and sister to the late President Willard
and Elders Phineas and Levi Richards.  The
eldest but one of eleven children, she was also
the last but one (her brother William, who,
according to late accounts, resides in Rich-
mond, Mass.), of the family to depart from this 
life.
 She believed the Gospel, as revealed to Jo-
seph Smith and presented to her by her cous-
ins Joseph and Brigham Young.  She waited
a year for her sister Nancy, who also believed,
to obtain the consent of her husband, that
they might both join the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints at the same time.
In less than an hour after her brother-in-law
first expressed his willingness for his wife to
become a "Mormon," the two sisters were
baptized by their brother Phineas on the 2d
day of June, 1838.
	During her latter years, Aunt Rhoda took
much pleasure in entertaing those about her
with pleasing stories of her early life.  Al-
though a great sufferer much of her time, she
had also been an ambitious worker.  She de-
lighted in telling how her mother taught her-
self and her sister to work; how they knit,
spun, wove, kept house and did all kinds of
work necessary for girls or women to do.  She
could recollect when the raising of cotton
and the manufacturing of cotton goods was
first introduced into her native State.  Though
very young at the time, she was among the
first to learn the different, methods of prepar-
ing cotton and working it up.  She could also
tell a similar story concerning the first appear-
ance of home made straw hats and bonnets in
that State.  Until the last two years of her
life she was able between spells of sickness, to
perform a considerable amount of manual la-
bor, which she not only preferred to do, but
prided herself in doing.  Prominent among her
life labors is a goodly amount of work done for
dead relatives and friends.
	New Year's day was one of especial interest
to her.  On that day, when a young woman,
she followed her first and only love to the
grave. They were soon to have been married,
when her affiaced sickened and died.  True to
his memory, for many long years she never
once joined with friends in joyful congratula-
tions on the first day of the year.  It was a
singular incident that last New-year's morn-
ing she remarked it was the first "Happy New
Year" she had known for sixty-six years.  She
said the snow looked exactly as it did the day
"Mr. Damon" was buried.  She also observed
that day that she thought her last days had
commenced, for in her blessings she had been
promised that her last days should be her best
days.
	On the afternoon of Sunday, Jan. 5th, she
requested the presence of the family to witness
her walking unaided across the room, a thing
she had not been known to do for over a year
until then.  On Monday, the 6th, she wrote an
encouraging letter to an afflicted friend in
Dixie. This was the last work she performed
on earth.  That evening she complained of
being hoarse, and said she had taken cold.
From that time she gradually sank, until Fri-
day, Jan. 17th, about half past one p.m., when
she gently expired without a groan or struggle.
She died at the residence of her nephew, Levi
W. Richards, in the 20th Ward of this city,
where she had lived for some years.  Her fu-
neral, which held at the Ward meeting house,
was largely attended, and appropriate and in-
teresting remarks were made by President's
Joseph Young and Angus M. Cannon, Elder
Lorenzo D. Young and Bishop John Sharp.
Respected and beloved, she lived and died a
true Saint.
	Like the last brightening of autumn flowers,
	Before they feel the frost king's blighting breath
	Fresh radiance crowned this aged friend of ours,
	Ere she was folded in the arms of death.


IN our last issue was published an article
entitled "The Mormon Ques[---]n Once More,"
and no credit wa given to [---] author.  The
piece was written by Ms. Mathilda J. Gage,
editor of the Syracuse "National Citizen and


Ballot-Box." Mrs. Gage is a lady of deep
thought and feeling, and we fully appreciate
and thank her for defending us so nobly with
her mighty weapon, the pen, for in her hands
it is indeed mighty, and may she live to see
the great good it will yet accomplish.


<l, with;="" any="" pi="" the="" .high="" rhoraf.chrlstiqp="" jilates-="" men="" who,="" pptagppizo="" 'mpnap.n.="" ,ut="" .christian="" statesmen="" lypuld="" unqijutpdly="" weaken,="" ;.="" jmtj="" .="" ;="" .<="" mrs..="" sarah="" spencer="" puts="" casoln.a’jjut-”'="" shell="" when'shesays'.that;thq="" difference="" ;j="">	THE MORMON FEMALE.

	Quite interesting it was to see two Mor-
wives standing in dangerous proximity to
our most respectable President Hayes plead-
ing for polygamy.  this little dramatic
scene occured in the White House last
week.  And by the same token the Mormon
wives took the lead in their argument, and
as Orson Pratt floored Hot-scotch Newman
in Utah, they bossed the President in the
debate argumentative at the national capi-
tal.  Their first direct and incisive ques-
tion was, "What right has the General
Government to ignore territorial laws and
tear them away from their husbands, and
	TO BASTARDIZE THEIR CHILDREN
and deprive them of all right and inherit-
ance?" 
	It has no right to do so.  In the first
place, and most emphatically, the Constitu-
tion forbids the passage of ex post facto
laws, and so any law interfering with Mor-
mon marriages previous to its passage
would be utterly and absolutely unconsti-
tutional.
	Their next point was that these Mormon
wives were happy, wanted to live with
their husbands, religiously believed they
were right in so doing, and objected not to
other women having a share to husband's
names and property.  Who then would be
benefited by tearing them away?  How
would morality be served by doing so?
Would not only distress, poverty, demoral-
ization result? There was no good answer
to this given.  Nor can any very good an-
swer be given.
	Congress should see to it that when they
do legislate on this Utah question, they
should do it like statesmen, and not like
fanatics.  There are many and important
interests to be considered, and there are
not a few of the best observers who think
that the best thing that can be done in the
matter is not to legislate on it at all. 
	The polygamy of Utah is doing no harm
to the United States.  The territory as far
as the Mormons are concerned, is a type of
morality, and we should be glad to see
their representative delegate, Cannon, a
gentleman above reproach, compared as
far as genuine gentlemanliness and purity
and integrity of character is concerned,
with any of the high moral christian states-
men who antagonize the Mormons.  But
the christian statesmen would undoubtedly
weaken.
	Mrs. Sarah Spencer puts the case in a nut-
shell when she says that the difference be-
tween the Mormons and the christian
statesmen is that the Mormons marry their
mistresses, the congressmen don't.—Capi-
tal.


ENGLISH PICKLE FOR TONGUE. - For two
tongues make a brine of two ounces of salt-
peter, half pound brown sugar, one pint of
barrel salt, one teacupful of molasses, water
enough to cover them.  Let them stand in
a crock, well kept under the brine, for ten
days.  When ready to use boil two or three
hours, skin and eat cold.  This brine can
be used as long as it keeps sweet, and is
good to keep ham or dried beef in.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SOMETHING ABOUT LEARNED
			WOMEN.

	The question has been asked, "Was there
ever a time when there were no learned
women?"  To this query we reply, No!
never since the creation of Eve, our first
mother, down to the present, when the
cause of women's social and political rights
has become a distinct national question; we
admit there has been an unusual intellec-
tual activity for the last twenty years, both
in Europe and America, and that there has
been advancement and progress in this re-
spect within the last decade, but we are apt
to felicitate ourselves, and perhaps are too
indiscriminate on the progress achieved in
female education.
	There never was a time, let me repeat,
when there was not highly educated women,
according to the standard of their age.
Isis and Minerva show the value set upon
feminine intellect by the ancients.  Recall
the noble tribute of Pluto to the genius of
women in his Banquet; also the long line of
learned and accomplished English women,
from Lady Jane Grey to Elizabeth Barrett.
Among that wonderful people, the Spanish
Arabs, there were women who were public
lecturers, secretaries of kings.  While
Christian Europe was sunk in darkness,
Ayesha, daughter of Ahmed ben Mahom-
med ben Kadin of Cordova, was considered
the most learned woman of her age (the
Tenth century); she excelled in mathemat-
ics, medicine, poetry, and other sciences.
The Moorish historian almost deifies this 
then wonderful woman.  There were female
professors of the classics, and of rhetoric at
Salomanca and Aleula under Ferdinand
and Isabella.  The intellectual influence of
Lucrezia Borgia is classed by Roscoe with
that of his hero, Leo X. Vittoria Culonna
and Veronica Gambava ranked as the
equals and friends of Bembo and Michael
Angelo; Tisaboschi declared the Rimatrice,
or female poets of the 15th century, not in-
ferior in number or merit to the Rimatori,
or male poets.  Benedict XIV bestowed on
Maria Aynezi, a celebrated mathematician,
the place of Apostolic professor in the Uni-
versity of Bologna in 1758.  Pope Clement
XIV wrote, in 1763, to a lady who had sent
him her translation of Locke, expressing
his satisfaction that the succession of learned
women was still maintained in Italy.  There
is a work of Paul de Ribero, entitled "The
Immortal Triumphs and Heroic Enterprises
of 845 Women."  There were sold at Pa-
dua in 1847, from the library of Count Leo-
pold Terri, 30,000 volumes solely the works
of female authors.  Donna Maria, of Portu-
gal, who married Prince Alexander, grand-
son of Charles V, could talk in both Latin
and Greek; she was said to be well versed
in philosophy, mathematics and theology.
Madaine Roland was acknowledged a far
better Statesman than her husband.  One
of the most important treaties of modern
Europe, the peace of Cambray in 1529, was
negotiated by two women, Margaret, the
aunt of Charles V, and Louisa, the mother
of Francis 1.
	These are merely a few specimens given
out of thousands.  There always have been
strong-minded, energetic, brilliant women,
but in order to succeed there must be an
incentive to action, and all acquired facul-
ties are to be brought to bear upon some
definite end.  Indolent young men have
been galvanized into industry when the
final pressure on an immediate aim was
supplied.  A few, both male and female,
have so strong a propensity for study that
they pursue it by themselves, though with-
out any ulterior aim.  But for most of those
of average energy there must be an object for
the employment of their time.  The end
and aim in the schooling of our girls has been
to fit them to be wives and mothers. This
must never be lost sight of.  But our boys
have the probable destiny of becoming fa-
thers and supervisors of the intellectual
training of their children.  Our boys have
this sacred responsibility to arouse them,
and all the incentives of private and public
duties.	
	What is it that so often causes failure on
the part of girls, when it has been proven
that at school the girls showed more apti-
tude, and averaged an equality of talent.
Let me give the answer as it has come up
from thousands of female hearts: "We have
nothing to do."  Boys go to college, study
professions, learn trades, etc., etc.  They
have all before them, while most of the
girls feel that they have nothing worthy
to inspire them, and the failure arises from
want of stimulus.  An immortal soul needs
for its sustenance something more than vis
iting, novel reading, crocheting, making
pretty little things to adorn person or par-
lor.  This is not sufficient - neither is that
other incentive so often held forth to young
women, viz., "To be the mother of some
great man like a Washington or a Mar-
shall."  This has been the burden of ad-
dress at school examinations by the learned
(or otherwise) gentlemen present.  This
they seemed to think was sufficient to in-
spire heart and mind forever!  To be the
mother of a sublime specimen of male hu-
manity!  Some critic, after speaking very
cordially of Mrs. Mill's able article "The
Enfranchisement of Women," in the West-
minster Review, said that it was to be
hoped, however, the mother of J. S. Mill
would always regard it as her chief honor
to have reared her distinguished son.  But
why is it not as much honor to be a useful
woman as to be a useful man?  Must this
be the great ultimatum of woman's life
here - to be spoken of after a generation or
two, or more, as the mother of the learned,
renowned, famous James, Charles, or John,
So and so?  We believe most women pre-
fer to take the honor as they go along; not
that any woman would object to being the 
mother of a good son or daughter--we con-
sider it an honor to have either.  The fa-
ther may be as important in the rearing of
the child as the mother, yet it is not con-
sidered the whole duty of man to be a good
father.  Many men who have been good
fathers have also attended to arduous duties,
were, in fact, many of them, guardians of
American liberty.  And has woman only
one-half a mission?  Is not each individual,
male or female, an unit before God?  Has
woman equally with man an individual
body to be protected, and an individual soul
to save?  Must she not see, feel, know,
speak, think, act for herself and not through
another?  Is not the same grand universe,
with all its wonders and mystery, spread
out before her for study and research?  Are
not the same deep thirstings for knowledge
within her soul?  Has she not the same
solemn and profound problems to solve that
man has?  And can she not attain to as
great a scientific or literary eminence as
her brother man?  Is she not a mental,
moral, spiritual being, and as such, account-
able to her Creator, who has placed her
here by the side of man under the same
obligations to develop and unfold her God-
given powers?  It is arrogant and audacious
presumption for man to attempt to decide
the sphere of woman, especially in an age
that can number its thousands of noble, in-
tellectual, earnest workers for the right,
each one of which has mind enough to set
up half a dozen like many who disparage
woman's capacity.
	Woman asks the same intellectual and
political advantages that are granted to
man. All women have the natural right to
labor, suffer and endure - no one attempts
to deny this: but she asks the same encour-
agement to give energy to industrial enter-
prise.  Says an American writer:  "The
dignity of labor should be sustained.  The
franchise of a freeman should be granted
to the humblest laborer who has not for-
feited his right by crime.  In the responsi-
bilities of a freeman he will find the strong-
est motives to exertion.  Besides, so far as
government can by its action affect his con-
fidence of a just remuneration for his toil,
he feels that a remedy is put in his hands
by the ballot box."  Some of our law mak-
ers have asserted that the right of suffrage
was worth fifty cents a day in its effect
upon the wages of the male laborers in this
country. The great educator of American
men is the ballot box with its accompani-
ments, and this means the whole world of
public life, public measures, public interests
and public offices.
	There are brave, noble, true-hearted men
who have and ever will use their voice, in-
fluence and vote for any measure necessary
to give woman her true position, to enable
and secure her from being a prey to those
who have no law in their habits and propen-
sities. Talleyrand said, "To see one-half
of the human race excluded by the other
half from all participation in government is
a political phenomenon, which on abstract
principles it is impossible to explain."  "The
principle of an aristocracy is admitted,"
says Toquerville, "the moment we reject
an absolutely universal suffrage." The
protest of women is not against a special
abuse, but against a whole system of injus-
tice." "Once recognize the political equality
of the sexes," says one, "and all the ques-
tions of legal, social, educational and pro-
fessional equality will soon settle them-
selves."
							L. M. H.


WOMEN'S MASS MEETING

ST. GEORGE AND WASHINGTON.

 Held in the Tabernacle at St. George,
Dec. 5th, 1878.  Meeting called to order by
Anna L. Ivins, and on her motion Mrs.
Artemisia Snow was chosen President, and 
Eliza Smith Calkins and Elizabeth P. Bent-
ley were chosen Secretaries.
	After singing, prayer was offered by E.
S. Calkins.  Mrs. A. Snow then stated the 
object of the meeting, and the fact of the
Anti-polygamy movement and the injuries
it might bring upon the people.  On motion
of Mrs. Snow Harriet H. Romney, Mary G.
Whitehead and Artemisia S. Segmiller
were appointed a committee to draft reso-
lutions protesting against this movement.
	Some very intresting addresses were
made by A. Snow, D. Everitt and M.
Miles.  These ladies each in her own way
expressed herself very strongly against the 
Anti-polygamy movement, and showed
that those who were opposing us werre not
only trying to ruin a people but were work-
ing for their own distruction.  They relat-
ed an account of their own lives in po-
lygamy, and gave a very excellent account
of their church history.
Among the speakers were Mrs. Gold,
Emily Spencer, Brewet Johnson, Margaret
Matties, Mary Jane Sanders, Mrs. Kemp,
Mary Wells, Annie Wells, Annie Wood-
bury, Mrs. Caul, E. S. Calkin, F. A. Church,
E. Lunt, H. J. Perkins, Snell Snow, E.
Morse Mrs. Liston and E. Bleake,.


[Column 1]
	Committee on resolutions then returned,
bringing in tne, following preamble and
resolutions, which were read and adopted.
	Whereas, We, women of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, have been
grossly misrepresented by our Christian
sisters dwelling in our midst, in regard to
our rights (to worship God according to the
dictates of our own conscience)—the right
which relates to the most holy relations of
wifehood and motherhood, we do hereby
declare most solemnly and emphatically
our true sentiments, and invite a complete
and impartial investigation of our cause.
	1st. Resolved, That we, the women of
St. George, Santa Clara and Washington,
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, do heartily endorse the
sentiments of our sisters in Salt Lake City,
and with them claim the privilege of wor-
shipping God according to the dictates of 
our own conscience; and God being our
helper, we will sustain our husbands, Fa-
thers and sons in carrying out every princi-
ple of our holy religion in righteousness.
	2d. Resolved, That we, as sisters and
true women, will sustain our husbands in
every righteous principle that tends to in-
crease their families, and do all in our power
to bring about the redemption of the human
family. That we solemnly avow our full
faith in the doctrine of Celestial Marriage,
established by the divine command of Him
who is the same yesterday, to-day, and for-
er, and knowing the glory, strength and
power that will rest upon us as a people,
who practice it in righteousness, we do en-
dorse it as one of the most important prin-
ciples in our holy religion, and claim the
right to put it in practice.
	3d. Resolved, That we will endeavor to
keep the commandments of God and leave
the result with Him, and protest against
the enactment of any laws to deprive us of
our religious freedom. That we will sus-
tain and practice the doctrine of plual mar-
riage as revealed by God, our Heavenly
Father, to the Latter-day Saints, and as
practiced anciently by His own people.
	4th. Resolved, That we, the sisters in
the Church of Latter-day Saints, do feel to
thank the ladies who dwell in the Territory
of Utah who have so kindly interested
themselves in the behalf of the "poor Mor-
mon women;" we would suggest that their
interest and kind feelings be turned on
their own poor degraded women, those of
their own land who need their help and
interest, as we, by the help of God, can
take care of ourselves, and feel good in sus-
taining our husbands, fathers and sons in
putting in practice the laws or God.
	5th. Resolved, that we do truly appre-
ciate the efforts of those noble ladies of the
National Suffrage Association, who, without
any sympathy for us in our religious views,
and opposed to plural marriage, yet bravely
defended our cause of woman's rights in
Utah in the halls of Congress. For this we
feel to tender them our hearty thanks.
	6th. Resolved, That everything our sis-
ters in Salt Lake City may do in memorial-
izing Congress in our behalf we fully en-
dorse, and solemnly protest against any-
thing that may be done for the injury of
our cause or people.
	Dismissed by prayer.
				E. S. CALKIN, Sec'y.

			BEAVER CITY.

	The ladies of this city held a Mass Meet-
ing, Dec. 13, 1878, at the meeting house for
the purpose of expressing their views re-
ligiously and politically. There was a

[Column 2]
good representation. Meeting was called
to order by Mrs. Ruth Tyler. On motion
of Mrs. Eliza Hawkins, Mrs. Ruth Tyler
was called to the chair. Mrs. M. E. Ash-
worth and Mrs. M. J. Shipp, secretaries.
The chair stated the object of the meeting,
and made a very able speech, showing that
we, as Latter-day Saints, are loyal to the
Constitution of our country, and Congress
has no right to interfere; saying, let us
stand up and assert our rights, acknowledg-
ing before the world our faith in the princi-
ple sought to be suppressed. Each of the.
following ladies made appropriate speeches
suited to the occasion: Mrs. L. B. Pratt,
Mrs. M. Vaughan, Mrs. D. F. Cox, Mrs.
Caroline Crosby, Mrs. M. A. Tanner, Mrs. S.
Robinson, Mrs. M. A. Grimshaw, Mrs. E.
Hawkins, Mrs. L. Howd, Mrs. E. Hilden,
Mrs. Jane Gibbs. The preamble and reso-
lutions were read by Secretary Mrs. M. E.
Ashworth, and moved and seconded that
We, the ladies of Beaver City, in mass
meeting assembled, adopt and coincide with
the resolution of our sisters of Salt Lake
City in their mass meeting of Nov. 16, 1878.
Mrs. Ruth Tyler made a few closing re-
marks. Choir sang. Benediction by Mrs.
L. Skinner.
		MRS. H. E. ASHWORTH, Sec'y.
		MRS. M. J. SHIPP, Ass't Sec'y.

				LEHI.

	The Mass Meeting of the ladies of Lehi,
held Dec. 26, 1878, proves that although
they may be among the last they are not
the least, or any the less pointed in their
expressions than their sisters in other
places. There was a good attendance of
ladies, and at 10:30 a. m. meeting com-
menced by electing Mrs. Sarah Coleman
Evans as President, and Mrs. Rebecca
Standing Secretary. Choir sang. Prayer
by Mrs. Morgan Davis. Singing.
	The president. in an appropriate and
pointed speech, stated the object of the
meeting, and gave incidents in her early
life and experience in polygamy, after
which the following committee on resolu-
tions were appointed: Mary A. Davis,
Louisa M. Naile, Elizabeth Hawkins and
Ann Ball. While the committee were out
speeches were made by Martha P. Thomas,
Barbara A. Evans, Rebecca Standing, Mor-
gan Anderson, Mary Chillton, S. M. Naile,
Rebecca Evans, Melissa Willes, and many
others. The ladies spoke in a plain and
pointed manner, fully setting forth their
views, feelings and position on the princi-
ple under discussion, and showed that the
ladles were abundantly able to express
themselves and take their own part. The
position of wives and mothers in the moun-
tains was contrasted with the same in other
lands, and the sympathetic ladies of Salt
Lake City were fully advised to expend
their philanthropy where it is most needed.
	The committee having returned, they re-
ported the resolutions that had been pre-
viously adopted by the sisters of Salt Lake
City as the sentiments of this meeting.
The resolutions were then read by the Sec-
retary, commented upon by some speakers,
then unanimously adopted. Closing re-
marks by Martha J. Thomas. Singing.
Prayer by Rebecca Standing.
			SARAH C. COLEMAN, Pres't,
			REBECCA STANDING, Sec'y.

			CHARLESTON.

	A Mass Meeting of the ladies of Charles-
ton was held in the Meeting House Jan. 6.

[Column 3]
1878. Mrs. Mary Daybell called the meet-
ing to order, and moved that Mrs. Emma
Brown preside; the motion was carried
and Mrs. Emma Trotman was chosen Sec-
retary. After singing and prayer Pres. E.
Brown explained the object of the meeting,
and stated that as the Gentile ladies of Salt
Lake City had got up a petition to abolish
polygamy, we, as sisters believing in plural
marriage, wish to oppose them. Many of
the sisters expressed their feelings, and all
felt to uphold and sustain the principle of
plural marriage. The preamble and reso-
lutions passed by the ladies at the Theatre
on Nov. 16th were read and unanimously
adopted.
			EMMA TROTMAN, Sec'y.

	Report of a Mass Meeting held at Manti,
Jan. 6th, to protest against the Anti-polyga-
my petition.
	Meeting called to order at 2 o'clock p.
m. In the stand were the Presidency of
the Relief Society, the Sisters Maiben, and
many of the leading sisters of Manti. On
motion of Mrs. Carto, Mrs R. Wareham was
unanimously sustained as Chairman of the
meeting, and Mrs. A. L. Cox as Secretary.
Singing by the choir, and opening prayer
by Mrs. Christoffersen. The Chairman
then stated the object of the meeting, and 
reviewed the history of the Church and
the causes that had led to the persecutions
which had followed us through all our
wanderings.
	Quite a number of impromptu speeches
were made, and all the speakers were unani-
mous in protesting against the unrighteous
crusade which is being forced upon us; at
the same time a spirit of Christian forbear-
ance characterized the meeting, and the
general desire seemed to be to leave our 
traducers in the hands of One who has said,
"Vengeance is mine."
	An excellent address to the young ladies
was read by Miss Marion Grier, exhorting
them to be faithful to the principles for
which their mothers and suffered so much.
	Several resolutions embodying the senti-
ments of the assembly were unanimously
adopted, also the action and resolutions of
the ladies of Salt Lake City were heartily
endorsed and sustained. The meeting
closed with singing by the choir. Bene-
diction by Mrs. Wareham.
					A. L. COX, Sec'y.

			CEDAR CITY.

	Meeting was called to order by Mrs. Sarah
Uric, and after singing and prayer Mrs.
Ellen Lunt was appointed by unanimous
vote to preside over the meeting, and Mrs.
Sarah Chatterly as Secretary. Mrs. Ellen
Lunt then stated the object of the meeting,
viz., to defend our views and religious con-
victions, and to protest against the Anti-
polygamy movement and petition. A com-
mittee of five ladies was appointed to draft
resolutions, and while they were absent
Mrs. Lunt made some very interesting re-
marks. The committee returned the fol-
lowing report:
	Resolved, That we, the women of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
of Cedar City, in mass meeting assembled,
fully endorse the preamble and resolutions
passed by the women of the Latter-day
Saints in mass meeting assembled in Salt
Lake City, Nov. 16, 1878.
	The above named preamble and resolu-
tions were then read by Mrs. Sarah Chat-
terly, and adopted. Sarah Uric, Mary Ann
Lunt, Annabella Haight, Jane Spiking,


Eliza Ann Haight, Keturah McFarlane,
Mary Cosslett, Mary Ann Unthank, Ann
Alldredge, Henrietta Jones, Elsie Nielson
and Sarah Cox followed with very appro-
priate and spirited remaks, all expressing
their sentiments concerning plural mar-
riage, &c. A very good feeling prevailed,
and after singing the meeting was dis-
missed by Mrs. Sarah Uric.
			SARAH CHATTERLY, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		189


190		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

GOD'S GOODNESS AND POWER.

	"The works of God are great, sought out
of all them that have pleasure therein."
	His works are wonderful and glorious,
and more than repay our closest observance.
It is difficult to say which most predomi-
nates therein, His goodness or His power.
While the telescope supplies increasing
proofs of their immeasurable vastness and
extent, the microscope equally reveals signs
of their infinite minuteness and perfection.
But it is not these, either their extent or
completeness, that sets the crown upon the
whole, but it is their individual distinctive-
ness. So that, though countless in compute
and perfect in finish, there is an individu-
ality extending equally from the highest
to the lowest, which bespeaks their Cre-
ator's boundless intelligence and wisdom.
Not only does He tell the number of the
stars and call them by their names, but the
number of existences in each. The deni-
zens of the air, the tenants of the waters,
the inhabitants of the earth, are each thus
identified by Him—even one of the hum-
blest is declared not to fall to the ground
without His cognizance. But not merely
each species is recognized, but the invidu[--]
number of each family, and to such [---]
own particular character is given [---] its
the far-famed Temple was erect [---] When
Zion in the days of King [---]ed on Mount
stone, pillar, cornice a[---] Solomon, every
previously square [---]nd architrave were
prepared all [---] polished, fitted and
skill having [---] a peculiar application of
[---] been minutely and exactly
adjusted; so that on the going up of the
edifice no sound of axe or hammer was to
be heard, each part, on being introduced to
its position, fitting exactly its appointed
place. The construction of that consecrated
Temple was a subordinate type of the plan
and method of the Divine Architect of the
universe. Secretly, silently His works ap-
pear, and on appearing each portion, from
the greatest to the least, finds and fills its
exact position. This accounts for the won-
drous harmony of nature—planets, suns
and systems—and the beauteous complete-
ness and perfection of the whole.
	The Bible is God's written book, written
by human instrumentality. The starry
heavens is His printed book, like the an-
cient tablets given to Moses, by His own
fingers. And why set up there but that all
mankind should read? Astronomy is a
science which arises from man's need of
religion; other sciences spring out of wants
bounded by this life, and so astronomy was
the religion of the world's youth. It took
its rise in the East. Serene and beautiful
are the nights in Persia, and many wise
ones in earlier days, full of deep thought,
went out into the fields like Isaac to medi-
tate at eventide. Those skies in their
calm depths mirroring that which is bound-
less in space and illimitable in time, with a
silence as profound as death and a motion
gliding on forever. What a symbol of
eternity, of immortality, and of life!
	God has so made us that the very act of
looking up produces in us perceptions of

[Column 2]

the sublime. No wonder, therefore, that
the ancient Magii were regarded as the
High Priests of nautre. No wonder that
in the days of Daniel, who was made chief
of the Chaldeans, that is, the first of the
magicians, that the haughty Nebuchadnez-
zar bowed before him with incense and
oblation. The chief business of the Chal-
dean Magi was the study of the heavenly
planets, constantly associated with the stars
the system of light, conceiving them to be
the home of the Deity, as if their eternal
[-]estiny seemed to sit enthroned there; and
so by a star the magicians, the first of the
Gentiles, were in subsequent ages led to
Christ.
	Salt Lake City.	L. M. H.


[Column 1]
NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap,	-	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc)	-	-	-	35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	-	-	35 Cents each

A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Residence—Ephriam, Sanpete County.

	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & CO.,
									Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women; and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

[Column 2]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C E. DYE

	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes. Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Restail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
A[---] FOR
	RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,

55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every varity,
AT
TEASDEL'S

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

John Taylor, Pres't.	Wm. Jennings, Vice-Pres't,
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N,

Manufacturers and Dealers in

BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.

TANNERY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City. All those who desire to aid home manufac-
ture. and at the same time purchase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliable quality, at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders to

WM. H. ROWE,
		SUPERINTENDENT.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE-MATTRESSES,
FEATHERS WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

