VOL. 7.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JAN. 1, 1879.	NO. 15.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
WOMEN OF ZION.

Where fifteen hundred women thronged,
	To answer back a listening world—
A people by their kindred wronged,
	'Gainst whom men's bitterest threats were buried;
'Gainst whom all hearts did seem at war,
	From women at their firesides' cheer
To men whom nations' rulers are—
	I, listening, their words did hear.

Here, where from persecution's might
	The poor, or titled exile, found
A home, and did in love unite,
	And by most solemn pledges bound,
By legacy their country blessed
	With right of "life, liberty,
And the pursuit of happiness"
	To their free-born posterity.

Ere yet have passed away from earth
	The last sons of that century grand,
The sacred record loses worth,
	And "might, not right," uplifts the hand.
And while scarce yet have died away
	The words our patriot grandsires spake,
Their ingrate heirs ignore, to-day,
	And strive the sacred will to break.

How proud the nation's sons to pay
	Their homage to its hundred years!
And welcomed to the natal day
	The titled guests of both the spheres.
But we, the outcast heirs, must wait,
	Disowned, despised, without a voice
In her proud hall, "outside the gate,"
	While strangers at the feast rejoice.

Have patriot's children right to speak?
	Have martyr's children right to pray?
Then we, the hunted, hated, weak,
	Something in our own cause may say.
Shall it count nothing unto us
	That our great grandsires fought and died
For our land's liberty, because 
	Our creed from their's may differ wide?

I saw, among the multitude,
	Women from every Christian land—
E'en from the islands' solitudes,
	And from the India's heathen strands—
Who left the idol and the cross,
	Drawn by the Gospel's sacred spell,
To follow Christ; nor count it loss
	To do His will, whate'er befel.

I saw, and knew the histories
	Of those who rank had laid aside,
And choosing God's high mysteries;
	With bleeding feet crossed deserts wide,
Drawing their hand-carts day by day.
	Through wind and rain and bitter snows,
'Til, famine-stricken by the way,
	Their comrades' graves like furrows rose.

Heritage of ancestral lands
	And ships at sea they counted nought;
But kneeling on the barren nought;
	Oft on dry crusts His blessing sought.
And women, driven from their own hearths,
	Fleeing before a mob's decree.
Have 'neath the bleak sky given birth
	To heirs of our grand liberty.

And cradled in their wagons rude,
	Rocking o'er trackless prairies wild,
Each breathed the free air's balmy mood,
	And grew to manhood, God's own child.
And can the souls thus forged in fire
	Of outraged laws and human woes,
E'er wear the bonds of tyrant's ire,
	And all their mountain freedom lose?

Beside America's dead sea
	Their weary pilgrimage did end;
And in the desert's heart set free,
	In the red man did find a friend.
And from the parched and salted ground
	Invoked the slumbering life to wake;
And from the mountains old and brown
	The hidden crystal springs to break.

Then answered to the hand of toil
	Fair garden homes and forest fields;

[Column 2]

And e'en the canon's rocky soil
	To man her silvery treasure yields.
But scarce these blessings are secured
	Ere those we could not dwell among,
Ignoring all we have endured,
	With envious eye and venomed tongue

Survey the scene, and with well feigned
	Sense of shocked honor, and of fear,
Issue throughout our broad domain
	A call for holy crusade here.
But undismayed, and trusting HIm
	Who led them through the trial-path,
Though memory-pangs the eye might dim
	They heard God's praises in man's wrath.

Nor feared to speak, though well they knew
	What test their words must undergo;
But strong in heart, with purpose true,
	Their reasons for their faith dared show.
And brave as their colonial stres,
	Who cast aside the British yoke,
The smouldering embers of the fires,
	Patriot and martyr, in them woke.

And men and women, foes at heart
	To what these women dared to speak,
Heard truths that pierced them to the heart,
	And drove the quick blood to the cheek
Remember, then, O ye, who heard
	Words Zion's daughters spake that day;
Nor hush the impulse that they stirred,
	Oppression's cruel hand to stay.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Dec. 8, 1878.


[Column 1]
	NOTES AND NEWS.

	It would severly tax the memory of the
oldest inhabitant," to recall a more dis-
tructive and wide spread storm than that
of last week.  From all parts of the Middle
Atlantic and New England States, as well
as the St. Lawrence Valley, come distress-
ing accounts of its ravages.
	A train was wrecked at Sewall's Falls, on
the Montreal Railroad, on the night of the
10th, by a wash-out; and on the Central
Vermont Railroad a train was throwu into
the gulf of an undermined culvert near Bar-
tonsville, killing instantly two persons and
fatally injuring another, while several
others received serious injury.
	The destruction of railroad and highway
bridges by freshets was enormous.  All the
large river courses were the scenes of the
greatest damage.  The Upper Delaware and
Susquehanna were swollen many feet above
their highest water-mark.  In the State of
New York the Hudson and its tributaries in-
undated the towns on their banks, inflicting
immense loss, destroying canal locks, large
and small vessels, barges and dwelling-
houses, and sweeping from wharves and
docks all kinds of moveable property.  Hun-
dreds of families have been rendered tempo-
rarily homeless.
	The storm extended across the Atlantic,
leaving a heavy fall of snow on the south-
west coast of England.  On the twelfth the
heaviest snow storm known for years pre-
vailed through Central and Western Mis-
suri, Iowa and Kansas.  The depth varied
from three to thirty-five inches.  Railroads
are generally obstructed.  The Mississippi
was bridged by ice at Rock Island.
	"The Watchman" Dec. 19, 1878
	Boston Mass.
	PETITIONS tor the Sixteenth Amend-
ment should be sent as early as possible to
Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer, Washington,
D. C. 

[Column 2]	
	MARTHA WASHINGTON was the only wo-
man who ever enjoyed the franking privi-
lege in this republic.  April 3, 1800, after
her husband's death. Congress gave her free
use of the mails during the rest of her life.
	THE GRAND duchess of Hesse Darmstadt,
Princess Alice of England, died on Satur-
day, December 14th, of diptheria. The
grand duchess was the third child and sec-
ond daughter of Queen Victoria.  She was
born April 25, 1843. Her father, the late
Prince Albert, died on Saturday, December
14, 1861.
	THE PROJECT of a railroad across New-
foundland, that would shorten by one thou-
sand miles the ocean voyage from America
to Europe, is being agitated.  Among the
incidental benefits of opening such a rail-
way, is named the vast deposits of copper,
iron, coal, nickel, lead, and other minerals,
and the cut through the immense pine and
spruce forests of the island.—Ex.
	THE ELEVENTH Annual Convention of the
National Woman Suffrage Association will
be held in Lincoln Hall, 9 and D streets
Washington D. C. the 9, and 10, of this
month. The Association invites women
from all parts of the Country.  Letters for
the Convention should be addressed to Cor-
Sec. Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage, care of El-
len H. Sheldon No. 7, Grant Place Wash-
ington.  The Convention is one which we
feel greatly interested in and trust that the
struggle now being made by the brave
hearted women of America, to promote the
elevation of the sex and bring woman up to
the side of her brother man as a help-mate
and co-partner in all that pertains to the
best interests of both may result in victory;
and that when woman has the ballot
through-out this great nation, there may be
a diminuation of grog shops and dens of in-
famy "that bye and bye" there may be a
reign of peace on the earth.
	STATISTICS OF WOMAN'S LABOR.—The
Massachusetts report of statistics of labor,
in many respects a valuable and interesting
volume, makes one extraordinary mistake.
In summing up the non-producing or inde-
pendent classes in Massachusetts, it counts
up, together with 1,787 "retired from busi-
ness," 5,691 "infirm," and 505,905 children
under fifteen years of age, the item extra-
ordinary of 328,198 housewives.  Apropos
to this fiction that the housekeepers are a
"supported" class, comes the journal of one
day's work by a farmer's wife, who believed
in the seventeen hour law, and who never
struck for higher wages than her board and
clothes. "Rose at 4.30, skimmed the milk,
fed the chickens, got breakfast ready at
six.  Dressed the baby, washed the dishes, 
made the beds, killed the chickens, baked,
ironed, got the dinner.  After dinner went
to the field and dropped corn till it was
time to get tea.  After tea, put away the
milk, washed the dishes, fed the chickens,
sewed buttons on the husband's shirts,
mended the stockings, watered the house-
plants, crimped the ruffles on baby's Sunday
frock, and left off at 9.30, having forgotten
nothing, that ought to have been done ex-
cept patching the hole in the mitten."—
New North West.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Saturday, Dec. 7, 1878, was spirited
and interesting. Coun. B. W. Smith pre-
sided. Minutes of the Junior and Juvenile
Associations were read, which showed a
growing interest in the Gospel among the
children and young women of Zion. Mrs.
B. W. Smith made opening remarks, re-
ferring to the pamphlets which the sisters
had published of the proceedings of the
Mass Meeting at the Theatre; said she be-
lieved they would be the means of doing
good abroad. She had mailed copies to six
different States where she had relatives and
friends. She closed by saying she would
suggest to the speakers that they make
spirited but short speeches. Mrs. S. M.
Heywood, Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Mrs. Prescinda
Kimball, Mrs. M. E. A. Watmough, Mrs.
M. A. Freeze and Mrs. Martha Needham
each made remarks; the subjects dwelt
upon were plural marriage, the training of
children, duties of mothers, the need of
faith and prayer, and other things pertain-
ing to the life of a Latter-day Saint.

	ALMY, WYOMING TER., Nov. 15, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Sisters E. R. Snow and E. Davis visited
this place on Nov. 3d, and at one of our
meetings on that day they organized a
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation at this place. We can truly say
that our hearts rejoiced to see so many step
forward to become members of the organ-
ization.
	We held our first meeting Nov. 7th, and
we had a good attendance and received
same good instructions from Bishop Bouns
and others of the elder brethren and sisters.
They advised us to be orderly, obedient
and united, and we should see the time
that we should bless the day that Sisters
Snow and Davis paid us a visit. We num-
ber thirty-eight members. The following
are the names of officers:
	Mary Ann Henery, President,
	Mary Jane Ball,
	Elizabeth Bruce,	Counselors,
	Mary Brown, Secretary.
		Very respectfully,
			MARY BROWN, Sec'y.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Dec. 11th. 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I feel that I should be omitting a sacred
duty if I were not to bear my humble testi-
mony, through your valuable paper, to the
good times we are enjoying here in Utah,
compared with the poverty and distress now
being endured by the masses in the world.
We should be truly grateful for the bless-
ings we enjoy, that we are here, where our-
selves and children are free to enjoy the
blessings of life, and where all can at least
have plenty of food to eat, and raiment to
wear, and where when we have become aged
and not able to earn our own livelihood;
there is something better than a paupers
home, or a paupers-grave awaits us.
	I have lately returned from a visit to my
native land, England; where I can truly
say, I have witnessed more poverty, dis-
tress and drunkenness, in one short year
than I had ever imagined in the quarter of
a century I had previously spent in Utah.
What a contrast! here the servants of God

[Column 2]

are striving to save the human family, both
temporally and spiritually. There, the great
aim is to destroy, true there are some who
are trying to benefit mankind but how puny
is their effort without the true guide. the
strong arm, the spirit of God, the priesthood
on which we lean for support. The Latter-
day Saints in Europe seem to be more alive
than ever to the importance of gathering
"home," and all who have the spirit of our
holy religion, are striving with all their
might to emancipate themselves and fami-
lies, though many have very little prospects
apparently of being able to do so; yet they
will often say, "I have faith that the way
will open for us soon," and it is often mar-
velous to them, how the way will open.
	I will here relate an incident that come
under my notice, a young girl left her par-
ents in the spring of the present year, to
join her brother who had previously come
to Utah. I saw her mother some weeks
afterwards, she had just received a letter
from her daughter, written after her arrival
here; after telling her of the bright pros-
pects before her, she urged her parents to
come if possible, at any sacrifice; she told
them there was plenty here for all, that they
were not afraid to eat all they wanted, for
fear the bread would not last, for when it
was all gone they could soon make more,
neither were they afraid the butter would
not last the week out, for when that was
all gone they could go to work and churn
more, for there was always plenty. The
parents then had very little prospect of com-
ing, but they had faith, and at last a kind
friend was raised np for them, and they
came with the last company this year, and
are made happy with their children and
<fcbplr; children="" and="" with="" the="" people="" of="" (jjocl="" imagine="" con-="" trast!="" compare="" this="" state="" tilings—it="" you="" can?‘witfr="" poverty="" distress,="" tpat="" is1'="" r="" in="" tjio.="" world;="" jslhe="" least="" itppbrtaufr="" part'ofit;="" there="" it="" is="" cqrhparativfely,="" bliiftfii’bdlng="" blind"they="" thinkthly="" qre="" 'abihg="" all"that="" required="" o’fthem="" when1="" “="" theyatterid="" their="" popiilar'rhbblinotice'a'="" week,="" and.pontess="" thathey="" are="" mifeserable;-="" juuui.uic="" uusci="" uaa="" giycu.="" ua="" fho="" worldkhpws="" not="" of,="" that="" nptmrg="" but="" our="" own="" actions="" can="" rob="" us'="" of,°="" then'="" ought="" hve="" fb="" rejoice?="" 1="" ivd="" often,="" think="" we="" tried,="" '="" so="" wbave="" fof="" aur1="" own!!”;="" purification="" hencq1="" arc"the="" qhe3jbercfif-t="" ed.="" rf="" ‘="" sisfqrk.="" who="" havbirtendsafid'relatives="" inthbjcmirch="" clcf="" country,”="" deslre'‘to'come,="" have'notgot="" 'thq="" hieang1'-="" helpf="" them,’if="" can;="" dov-not="" forget;!="" ioif="" behind.="" i="" will="" promise="" uintvu="" quch="" remembrances="" be="" appreciate="" t0'="" did="" have="" privilege="" of'ifilngliug,!,‘'="" u="" nntnif="" t?="" n="" no="" vrvimri="" saints="" england="" as="" ‘much,x'u1="" should="" ohbsen;="" know="" vlsitorsre-’="" ate="" expense,'="" saints'="" tq&fo<arr="" mostly1="" poor,31="" felt="" it'would="" bp="" wisdoiji="" for="" inerio'="" abstain="" to="" a="" certain="" exteptfrom'9'11="" visiting="" them,="" knowing="" i’ulnes1="" ft="" tlibir="" hearts="" generou="" hospitality="" an1="" their,="" desiring="" to'entertain="" me,="" pister="" from="" uta'h;-="" thby="" might-be="" led="" to:="" impoverish="" themselvesj'for'="" time1="" being,="" 'h6n6o!="" v.="" called="" bn'="" tlidm="" oecasionally1,="" encouraged="" thein="" fo="" hiivo="" faith="" 'they="" might="" ,="" he";'-="" privileged="" soon="" gather="" with’jhe="" g.aints="" ziou.="" many="" looking="" forward="" 'fp="" th'o'="" time="" when="" they="" do="" so;="" only="" the"="" poor,="" those="" meurisbre="" afraid="" well="" off="" hero="" us="" there,="" poqriand.="" meek”="" to.="" inherit="" kingh="" jlom.="" choping="" one.of.="" number,.15="" remain,="" &,c.’="" v="" -="" ;="" .r.if.="" e.="" bull.="">with the people of God. Imagine the con-
trast! compare this state of things—if you
can, with the poverty and distress that is
in the world; and this is the least important
part of it; there it is comparatively, "the
blind leading the blind," they think they
are doing all that is required of them when
they attend their popular meetings once a
week, and confess that they are misserable
sinners. How much they are to be pitied;
and how very much have we to be thank-
ful for, the Gospel has given us that, that
the world knows not of, and that nothing
but our own actions can rob us of, then
ought we not to rejoice? We often think
we are tried, and so we are for our own
purification, hence we are the ones benefit-
ed.
	Sisters, you who have friends and relatives
in the church in the "Old Country," who
<fcbplr; children="" and="" with="" the="" people="" of="" (jjocl="" imagine="" con-="" trast!="" compare="" this="" state="" tilings—it="" you="" can?‘witfr="" poverty="" distress,="" tpat="" is1'="" r="" in="" tjio.="" world;="" jslhe="" least="" itppbrtaufr="" part'ofit;="" there="" it="" is="" cqrhparativfely,="" bliiftfii’bdlng="" blind"they="" thinkthly="" qre="" 'abihg="" all"that="" required="" o’fthem="" when1="" “="" theyatterid="" their="" popiilar'rhbblinotice'a'="" week,="" and.pontess="" thathey="" are="" mifeserable;-="" juuui.uic="" uusci="" uaa="" giycu.="" ua="" fho="" worldkhpws="" not="" of,="" that="" nptmrg="" but="" our="" own="" actions="" can="" rob="" us'="" of,°="" then'="" ought="" hve="" fb="" rejoice?="" 1="" ivd="" often,="" think="" we="" tried,="" '="" so="" wbave="" fof="" aur1="" own!!”;="" purification="" hencq1="" arc"the="" qhe3jbercfif-t="" ed.="" rf="" ‘="" sisfqrk.="" who="" havbirtendsafid'relatives="" inthbjcmirch="" clcf="" country,”="" deslre'‘to'come,="" have'notgot="" 'thq="" hieang1'-="" helpf="" them,’if="" can;="" dov-not="" forget;!="" ioif="" behind.="" i="" will="" promise="" uintvu="" quch="" remembrances="" be="" appreciate="" t0'="" did="" have="" privilege="" of'ifilngliug,!,‘'="" u="" nntnif="" t?="" n="" no="" vrvimri="" saints="" england="" as="" ‘much,x'u1="" should="" ohbsen;="" know="" vlsitorsre-’="" ate="" expense,'="" saints'="" tq&fo<arr="" mostly1="" poor,31="" felt="" it'would="" bp="" wisdoiji="" for="" inerio'="" abstain="" to="" a="" certain="" exteptfrom'9'11="" visiting="" them,="" knowing="" i’ulnes1="" ft="" tlibir="" hearts="" generou="" hospitality="" an1="" their,="" desiring="" to'entertain="" me,="" pister="" from="" uta'h;-="" thby="" might-be="" led="" to:="" impoverish="" themselvesj'for'="" time1="" being,="" 'h6n6o!="" v.="" called="" bn'="" tlidm="" oecasionally1,="" encouraged="" thein="" fo="" hiivo="" faith="" 'they="" might="" ,="" he";'-="" privileged="" soon="" gather="" with’jhe="" g.aints="" ziou.="" many="" looking="" forward="" 'fp="" th'o'="" time="" when="" they="" do="" so;="" only="" the"="" poor,="" those="" meurisbre="" afraid="" well="" off="" hero="" us="" there,="" poqriand.="" meek”="" to.="" inherit="" kingh="" jlom.="" choping="" one.of.="" number,.15="" remain,="" &,c.’="" v="" -="" ;="" .r.if.="" e.="" bull.="">desire to come, and have not got the means
help them, if you can; do not forget those
left behind. I will promise you that all
such remembrances will be appreciated. I
did not have the privilege of mingliug
with the saints in England as much as I
should have chosen; I know that visitors cre-
ate expense, and as the saints there are
mostly poor, I felt that it would be wisdom
for me to abstain to a certain extent—from
visiting them, knowing that in the fulness
of their hearts and generous hospitality in
their, desiring to entertain me, a sister from
Utah, they might be led to impoverish
themselves, for the time being, hence I
called on them occasionally, and encouraged
them to have faith that they might be
privileged soon to gather with the saints in
Zion. Many are looking forward to the
time when they can do so, but it is only the
poor, those who have means are afraid they
will not be as well off here as there, but the
"poor and meek" are to inherit the King-
dom. Hoping to be one of the number, I
remain, &c.
	E. BULL.


PRACTICAL EDUCATION FOR GIRLS. 

	With a sounder education our girls are
finding a more vigorous life. They are be-
ginning to get a glimpse of what work
means, of the sweetness, the elevation, the
dignity it adds to existence. There will
not be work enough in the world for wo-
men when they once discover what a key
it is to worlds unknown, what it holds for
them of expansion, of enjoyment, what an
arena it will spread out before them.
	The reign of the dirty and dishonest
cooks is short; they may make the most of
their present chance; the peculations and
dishonest work of a class of dressmakers
will shortly come to an end, for the bright
girls of the present generation will not
stand it when they feel the ability and
know how to mend it. Some of the pret-
tiest girls belonging to the best families
have shown what they can do during the
past summer in the interior of Maine, in
the mountains of Pennsylvania and the
nooks of the Catskill. A majority of them
have prepared their own wardrobes; some
have taken it upon themselves to fish and
"forage" for the "shanty" and others have
done the cooking.
	Cooking clubs will undoubtedly be a rage
this winter, and lunches at which the food
is prepared by the young hostess, assisted
more or less by her guests. Those how-
ever, are recreations; the solid part of it is
that girls are beginning to put their facul-
ties to some use; that, instead of dawdling
over fancy work, they are beginning to
make their own dresses; instead of flaunt-
ing the street, preparing flimsy finery,
they are painting, carving, improving and
decorating their homes, and even in some
instances putting themselves seriously to
the task of teaching younger brothers and
sisters. All this is so good that one can
only hope it will become more general.
Practical work ought to enter so much more
than it does into education, it is so health-
ful, so necessary to full development, it
teaches so much more than can be taught
by text books and abstract methods.
	What our girls learn experimentally they
never forget. But what has all this to do
with fashion? More than we think. It is
to this change we owe the spirit in which
the costume has been received, the sensible
dresses seen at even the most fashionable
resorts in the mountains, of plain wool,short
and simply made and trimmed. It has
even affected the more frivolous, sea-side
resorts; has induced stylish belles to re-
place their trailing silk robes with compar-
atively short dresses of inexpensive organ-
dy, barege and dotted muslin, and will re-
lieve many a struggling despondent man of
a burden daily becoming more and more
difficult to be borne. Nor have the girls
lost anything. Certainly they are handsom-
er in their fresh, useful dresses than they
ever were before.	JENNY JUNE.
	—The American Home.


HELLER, the magician, is dead.
	English steel pens are almost entirely
made by women.
	BISHOP SIMPSON has been made president
of Drew Theological Seminary, N. J.
	In the printing offices of New York City
over 1,500 women and girls are employed.
	The Jews feel the effect of the movement
for women, and will bring their mothers
and female members from their accustomed
seat behind the rail and out of sight, to sit
in the pews with men.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
	A DREAM OF MEMORY.

I wonder why I should sit here and dream,
By the glowing hearth, on a wintry day,
And fanciful things so real should seem,
While my thoughts go wandering far away,
Till I catch a glimpse of a little child,
Roaming alone through a forest wild.

She's gathering bunches of evergreen,
And wreathing in garlands the trailing vine;
A beautiful picture she makes, I ween,
Under the boughs of hemlock and pine;
"A Happy New Year," she's gladly singing,
And through the woods the echo is ringing.

She gathers some moss, and lichen, and ferns,
And lily-valleys from under the snow,
And homeward her footsteps at last she turns,
Her bright young face with pleasure aglow.
Strange this little girl should wander away
Alone, while others are busy at play.

She looked like a fairy woodland queen,
As she tripped along with childish grace;
The wild flowers twined with the evergreen
Made a tableau grand of her sweet young face.
She haunts me in shadow and twilight hour,
And touches my heart with a magic power.

I wonder what makes her linger so near,
Awaking the visions of "Auld Lang Syne;"
The breath of the very wild flow'rs is here,
And the evergreen clings to this heart of mine;
I can e'en see the footprints in the snow,
Yet 'twas nearly forty, long years ago.

S. L. City, Dec. 2, 1878. 	EMILE.


A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

		         CONTINUED.

	We learn to understand human nature by
being brought into close connection with
each other, and more especially when under
trying and difficult circumstances; and we
seldom think more unkindly of persons
from gaining an insight into their real
hearts and character.  Instead of my opin-
ion of women being unfavorable or my feel-
ings unkindly in consequence of being inti-
mately associated in family relationship
with them, I am more favorably disposed
to women as a class, learning more of the
true nature of woman-kind than I ever
could without this peculiar experience; and
I am willing and ready to defend enthusi-
astically those of my sisters who have been
genuine enough and who possessed sufficient
sublimity of character, to practically live
the principles of divine faith, which have
been revealed in these the last days, in the
establishing of the kingdom of God upon
the earth.  It has required sterling quali-
ties indeed to battle with the opposition on
every hand, and not be overcome.
	That this is God's work and not man's
should be apparent to all those who are ac-
quainted with the history of the saints,
their persecutions, their trials, their diffi-
culties, and the marvelous means of their
deliverance, - when dangerous and various
untoward circumstances environed them.
	My husband built a comfortable dwelling
house on Parley Street in Nauvoo, but still
we endured many privations, which in our
own home in Ohio would probably never
have fallen to our lot; but we always felt
we must be thus tried to prepare us for fu-
ture exaltation, and that we might be able
to participate with those whom God had ap-
proved and owned, who "came up out of
great tribulation."
	Every one acquainted with the history
of our people know the terrible results of
the apostasy of "Bennett, Foster and the
Laws." Joseph Smith had no peace, his life
was sought continually by his enemies, and
this was the occasion of constant anxiety
and trouble to the saints.
			To be continued.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
APPRECIATION.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	We have many faculties given to us that
often lie dormant in the soul, latent sparks
of "the divinity that stirs within us" un-
known even to the favored possessor, but
from inattention, or a want of self-study
and self-culture, they are unaware of
"Know thyself" was the wise injunction of
the accomplished and intelligent Greek;
and truly were this an aim and more an at-
tainment we should be more passive, and
probably more happy, for it would confer
strength, it would give us a delightful and
honorable employment; we should discover
what an empire is contained within the
circumference of one human being! With
wonder we should study and contemplate
the working of the heart and brain, see
how busy has the great Creator been with
these master-pieces of His creation, and
appreciation would at once be awakened in
the mind. Without this invaluable faculty
Nature may unfold her glories, friends may
be around us, a mine of wealth that gold
has nothing to do with may be our our por-
tion, but the good and the beautiful are not
discovered, and discontent fills the mind,
simply because appreciation is wanting.
	In reading the works of great authors we
need this faculty, or we cannot soar with
the poet, or delve with the philosopher;
consequently the sublime beauties they
present are to us as a veiled mirror! The
same applies to theatrical entertainments,
lectures, or any intellectual feast that may
be provided. We need it also when we
converse with intelligence, in which so
much mental luxury is often derived, as
also much edification, but lacking apprecia-
tion, their sentiments fall on our ears like
the "seed that fell on stony ground!"
	We also need this faculty in our family
associations. How frequently it happens
that we fail to study, understand, or appre-
ciate those with whom our life is cast!
What a mine of wealth we sometimes trifle
with, or entirely cast away, or by our cold-
ness and indifference crush and destroy,
merely because we have never taken the
pains to understand or appreciate them;
thus we have no power to call out the good
that is around and about us, that might add
to our information and happiness.
	Now let me say a little on self apprecia-
tion. It is said by many that we cannot
know ourselves. I presume to differ on
this point—an honest, candid mind can
know itself. The wise Greek spoke advis-
edly when he said "Know thyself;" and I
will say appreciate thyself—not with a vain,
conceited, cursory knowledge, but after
deep reflection, and much prayer; after
watching the spring and motive of action,
the conception of thought, the birth of
impulse, the origin of temper; after
sounding the depth of feeling, weigh-
ing the strength of principle, measuring
the judgment, anatomizing the reason, and
arraying all the minor faculties before the
Tribunal of the "Mind's Eye," and by a
constant watchfulness, by something like
this we may certainly gain a considerable
knowledge of self, and be able to pass a
tolerably correct verdict. By such a course
we may correct what we find amiss, lay
hold on all that is good, and rejoice therein
with thankfulness, and be happy. This
study will give us faith in ourselves, and if
slandered, or by any means thrown into
opposing elements, we shall rise superior to
the hour by living in our own self-esteem.
Confidence in ourselves is as necessary to

[Column 2]

success as confidence in others, and indeed
more so. The temple of our own heart,
and the sanctuary of our own brain, form
a mighty citadel to take refuge in from
"the whips and scourges that flesh is heir
to"—finding there resources, that will com-
pensate for all we suffer; and in the integ-
rity and rectitude of our souls we shall re-
ceive an intuition and a knowledge of our
position, however insignificant or exalted,
that will enable us to stand beneath every
trial with calmness and dignity, looking to
our God, and with all confidence saying,
"Lord, Thou knowest."
	"Knowledge is power," especially when
applied to ourselves; for nothing can rob us
of what we know. While our principles
are righteous and we love them, because
they emanate from the Author of light and
truth, and we appreciate them as such,
we will fear no evil. Let our daily prayer
be that we may realize our gifts and bless-
ings and appreciate the same.
	S. L. City, Dec. 18, 1878.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

 WE have received minutes of Ladies Mass
Meetings at Heber City, Wallsburg Fairview
of which we shall publish a synopsis.  We
have been obliged to lay over R. S. Reports
to give place to the notices of the Ladies
Meetings.
 We take this opportunity to tender our
warm and sincere thanks to Mrs. Matilda
Joslyn Gage for her excellent article "The
Utah Question" published in December
number of "The National Citizen and Bal-
lot Box."  Mrs. Gage is an earnest deep-
thinking liberal-minded woman who is not
afraid to stand up heroically and speak out
fearlessly for the right.  She is working in
a noble cause, for the elevation of women.
"The National Citizen and Ballot Box" is
the Exponent for the National Woman's
Suffrage Association, and we would be
glad to see it prosper sufficiently to enable
its proprietors to publish it weekly, as the
cause in which it is issued is one which de-
serves a large and liberal patronage.  Suc-
cess to the Ballot Box and its able editorial
staff.
	THE ladies of Salt Lake County have pub-
lished ten thousand pamphlets of the Mass
Meeting of Mormon Women held in the
Theatre in this city, Nov. 10, 1878.  These
pamphlets are now nearly all distributed in
the United States and Europe, and some of
the islands of the sea.  They speak for the
veritable women of Utah, their real senti-
ments on the subject of marriage.
	The women of Utah are conscious the eye
of the world is upon them, and they are
also conscious that the eye of the Lord is
upon them.  We felt much wounded by
the course pursued by the Gentile ladies of
this city in entering upon this crusade, but
believe now that it will result in great
good, in awakening a deeper interest on
the subject of Mormonism throughout the
world, and the greater the opposition the
more discussion and investigation will be
brought about.


In Great Britain there are 11,000 women
telegraph operators, who earn from $5 to
$11 a week.
	A Quaker, riding in a carriage with a 
fashionable lady who wore a profusion of 
jewelry, heard her complain of the cold.
Shivering in her lace and jewels, she ex-
claimed, "What shall I do to get warm?"
"Really I don't know," replied the Quaker,
solomnly, "unless thee should put on an-
other breastpin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - - - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00[-] one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpare[-]l space, one
time, $2.00[-] per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple St[--]et.  Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 1, 1879.


[Column 1]	
	A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

	From how many thousand lips will go forth
that old time salutation, "A Happy New
Year." Ushering in another space in the great
journey of time, and of each individual life,
—and bringing its round of seasons in its train
to bless mankind with "seed time and har-
vest," opening with the day the world celebrate
as first in the record of the year. This is the
time when almost all feel to renew their lives,
to make a better record, to guard themselves
more carefully from evil, and cleave more to
good. The heart goes out in generous hospi-
tality to friend, or foe, and the larger charity
which fills the soul with kindness manifests
itself in cheery smiles, pleasant words and
good deeds. 
	It is a pleasant practice, and one which
should be highly regarded, for it brings much
that is cheering into the wearisome lives here
below. These delightful re-unions inspire the
heart with an elevated tone of feeling towards
the universal brotherhood of man, and inad-
vertently, as it were, draws people nearer to-
gether, giving them a slight foretaste of the
time when all shall love one another.
	At the close of the old year one is likely to
revert much to the past and indulge in regrets
which are of but little avail although they are
usually linked with resolves, which often prove
as idle as the regrets themselves. What is
wanted to make one better satisfied with life
is vigorous exertion in the path of duty and
rectitude; because what is regretted cannot be
repaired after the time has past. Therefore, let
the past be a pathetic record, to speak in tender
reproach of the mistakes and follies which
may have been committed, and the future the
clear page on which may be inscribed a better
record, if there is moral courage and physical
activity to execute that which the heart de-
sires.
	It is useless to carry about the skeleton of a
dead past. The present and the future are the
themes which should more especially engage
the attention. Memory, to be sure, is ofttimes
a pleasant companion, but she inclines one to
(waking) dreams if her company is courted,
and life is too busy to admit of much day-
dreaming.
	The new year has come—ah! how fast the
years one after another are sweeping into the
great fathomless sea of eternity. Well may
one pause on the threshold of the new year
and take as it were a lingering farewell of that
which is past, fruitless as it may be. Farewell,
old year: thou hast faithfully served thy pur-
pose, though thy days have been abused by
the many, and thy precious moments unappre-
ciated. Yes, the old year with its joys and
sorrows, pains and regrets, has passed away,
and its record is sealed. Did we say regrets

[Column 2]
passed away? Not so; they remain—it is the
heritage time leaves to mortals. But no repin-
ings can bring back the real past, though the
vision of the mind show it ever so clearly; it 
is only the dim, faded shadow of what was
once alive to all the actual senses.
	None are permitted to retrace their wander-
ings from right—none can recall that which
may have been thoughtlessly uttered, perhaps
causing a wound in the bosom of a friend, or a
pang of sorrow for one beloved.
	In entering upon the new year one volunta-
rily resolves to improve—this feeling seems to
be almost universal, although in many in-
stances only spasmodic, yet even these are
helps towards a better life, for good thoughts
and good desires give strength to the soul, yet
action is the mainspring, and may, with dili-
gence for its companion, make life a real plea-
sure, under the influence of pure thoughts.
	In the fresh green pastures of the new year
there is to the hopeful a peculiar charm—some-
thing approaching the mystic—yet we know
that it is real; and when it comes it may prove
too real, too hard for human hearts, except
God tempers the soul by his Holy Spirit.
	Again we repeat farewell old year; we had
only just begun to grow familiar with thee and
realize thy worth, ere thou hast passed away—
thy footfalls are still echoing in our ears, and
we can scarcely realize thou art gone beyond
recall. How many sighs and tears and groans
thou hast been witness of, and how many hu-
man lives have been yielded up during thy
reign, many thousands of them only as a sac-
rifice to the fierce passions and cruel ravages of
nations at war. And who shall answer for all
this wicked waste of life and intelligence?
	God grant that in the new year now dawn-
ing, when mighty intellect is the boast of na-
tions, that true wisdom may begin to be appa-
rent in connection with the boasted intelli-
gence. edncation and refinement, that the
"time of peace" may be hastened, when men
shall learn war no more. Then will much of
the sorrow which now cries out from ten thou-
sand cities in one agonizing chorus be un-
known. And so passes away the old year once
again, and on the tablets of memory are inef-
faceably engraved some sorrows that nature
mourns, and even these may be blessings in
disguise, for only God knows what is best, and
to all who trust Him implicitly will He give
that consolation which abideth forever.
	In this new year we trust the EXPONENT
may be the humble though silent instrument of
doing much good, of inspiring courage in the
hearts of our sisters in the noble work of ele-
vating and blessing and uniting together those
who desire to promote the interests of the
kingdom of God upon the earth. And so we
will close by wishing our friends and readers
one and all "A Happy New Year."


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE FIRST An[-]ual Conference of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Stake, Mrs. M. I. Horne
presiding, was held Friday and Saturday, Dec.
20 and 21. The Young Ladies' M. I. A. of
Salt Lake Co. having been recently organized
in a Stake capacity handed in their first re-
ports from date of each organization, making
the Conference a conjoint one of Relief Socie-
ties and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Associations. There were as many persons
present as could be seated comfortably. Elder
Joseph F. Smith and Pres. A. M. Cannon at-
tended Friday morning session to hear the re-
ports from Relief Societies and encourage the
sisters in their labors. They each made most


excellent remarks, of which we shall give a
synopsis in the minutes which will be pub-
lished in the next issue of EXPONENT. Friday
afternoon was devoted mostly to verbal reports
from the presidents of the various branches of
Relief Society in Salt Lake County. There
were present on the stand Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. Zina D. Young and many other ladies
who are devoting themselves almost exclusive-
ly to public duties in the interest of the Latter-
day Saints. Mrs. E. Howard, Secretary for the
County organization, read the reports in the
morning, Mrs. E. B. Wells in the afternoon.
We will publish in full the statistical and
financial report when it has been carefully
made out.
	Saturday morning Mrs. Mary A. Freeze pre-
sided over the meeting. Mrs. Augusta J.
Crocheron, Secretary, read the reports from va-
rious parts of the county. Saturday afternoon
presidents of Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Asso-
ciations made verbal reports. Miss E. R. 
Snow and Elder Joseph E. Taylor occupied the
remainder of the time. The Conference ad-
journed for three months to the first Quarterly
meeting of the second year.


WHAT IS WANTED?

	"That the name and character of a citizen
of the United States shall mean one and the
same thing, and carry with them unchallenged
security and respect." * * * "Free
speech, free press and free suffrage," * *
"these are inestimable rights to American citi-
zens."
	It seems by the President's Message that the
costly colored man in the South had served his
time and can now be protected in his rights,
and the great Dictator and Upholder of the
universe sanctioned it, or allowed it. It was
talked over and prayed over by the oppressed
slaves (though some were well treated), but
the time came when their prayers and inter-
cessions were heard and answered from on
high. 
	Jacob served fourteen years for his two wives,
his father-in-law (what a mistake! it is gener-
ally the mother-in-law) oppressed him, but
God put it into the heart of Jacob to ask for
the ring-streaked and speckled cattle; thus
Jacob gained justice.
	What a strange freak of nature for like to
produce like. Suppose man lifts from the soul
of woman the thought, "I am not protected as
an American citizen," no diminishing of the
treasury is required, no blood is shed, no hearts
to be rent, no wails of the widows and orphans
—none of these things need follow. What is
wanted? Yea, in our fair country. Master
spirits with true unselfishness, wise patriotic,
zealous souls not struggling for power over
each other, but content to act righteously,
knowing the time will come when principle
will outweigh policy—otherwise the seed of
dissolution will reap an abundant harvest—
the reward of unrighteousness, wickedness and
corruption.
	Ladies of America, have you considered that
this is what is wanted?
	Let our honored representatives at the Capi-
tol consider the condition of the tax-paying
ladies—they must abide the law, but they are
not American citizens.
	Has not WOMAN served the world almost long
enough to know her position? If men want
rights, obtain them by love and justice; let Ja-
cob (woman) go free, then all the wealth of
the soul of woman may be free to bless the
world, protected by the strong arm of the law,
physically, morally and mentally


There will be no war when every knee is bowed
in homage and supplication to God. How
long, O Lord, shall Nature's true laws be dis-
respected, and our nation suffer the consequen-
ces of the lack of justice in their administra-
tion?
							ZINA D. YOUNG.
	S. L. City, Dec. 9, 1878.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN--WOMANS WORST ENEMY.

	The greatest enemy woman can have is wo-
man. Whether they are instruments in the
hands of corrupt men or not, they alone know
how to be the worst foes of each other. The
last CRUSADE is only one proof out of many of
this assertion. Those ladies who allowed
themselves to be the cat's paw in this crusade
cannot be deep thinkers; they do not think for
themselves, they are merely the echo of others,
who, with or without reason, hate the Latter-
day Saints. Those ladies, if they had thought
for themselves, would never have consented to
be placed in the position in which they now
stand--the enemies of woman's freedom.
They know if they use their freedom unbiased
by prejudice, that they have never lived in
any place where woman is as free as here in
Utah. Not the freedom, so called, of licen-
liousness, which binds with [-etters] strong as
death, but the freedom that lives above law.
In no community on the face of this broad
land is the criminal calendar so small as among
this people, whether male or female. But this
is a digression. 
	What I wish to reach is the subject of plural
marriage as practised by the Latter-day Saints.
Those ladies claim it to be an abomination,
something awful, something to be loathed,
shunned, abhorred. But why? If it is so
dreadful, tell me why? Bring you reasons,
your strong reasons, and we will consider
them. Plural marriage has been practised for
over thirty years to my certain knowledge
amongst us, and where are the awful wrongs
it has brought forth. This people both male and
female are a God-fearing people. Come to our
meetings int he settlements away from the
city; listen Sabbath after Sabbath to the
teachings of the Elders, and those Elders, 
many of them, living in polygamy. I bear
testimony  that they teach the highest code of
morality and the most implicit trust in God;
that they counsel the people to be industrious,
sober, self-sustaining and honest; to marry
young, that they may live pure and not go
astray; that men must be faithful to their
wife, or wives, and provide for them and for
their families to the best of their ability.
	We provide amply for our poor, visit and
care for the sick and afflicted, store up grain
for a time of need, try to love our neighbors as
ourselves, to do good to them that hate us.
Are these then teachings of a wicked and licen-
tious people? Are these the practices to con-
demn? That plural marriage binds woman
and makes a her slave to man is utterly untrue;
it is the beginning of her freedom; it is the
door of her emancipation from slavery to man.
Now for the proof.
First, the girls of this Territory are not
afraid they will be old maids.
Second, they need not accept the first offer
for fear they will not get another, as they know
they can marry when they choose and whom
they choose.
	Third, mothers need not dress their daughters
and parade them around that they may catch
a husband, which after caught often proves not
worth having.
Plurality of wives also provides for the health
of woman after marriage. Ask any student of
human nature and they will be compelled to
acknowledge that it would be the salvation of
thousands of wives temporally. Thousands
of women every year are offered up a sacrifice
to mens' lust.
	Last, but not least, God has revealed this
principle for the salvation of His people, and
woe to them that fight against it. God has
promised to those who ask in sincerity that
He will give them a knowledge of the truth of
His work, or the principles pertaining thereun-
to. Plurality of wives is one of those princi-
ples. "Ask and ye shall receive; knock and it
shall be opened unto you."
Grantsville, Dec. 9, 1878. MARY.


MASS MEETING.

	PLEASANT GROVE.

	Mrs. Emily C. Bullock called the meeting to
order and moved that Mrs. Elizabeth Brown
preside; the motion was carried, and Miss Pau-
line Brown and Mrs. Fannie E. Stewart were
chosen Secretaries. After singing and prayer
Pres. Mrs. Brown explained the object of the
meeting—to protest against the anti polygamy
petition, and declare our sentiments in regard
to our holy religion. Mrs. Mary J. T. Winters
then read the petition referred to.
	On motion of Mrs. Margaret Walker a com-
mittee of seven was appointed to draft resolu-
tions for the adoption of the meeting, viz. M.
Walker, Lucinda Harvey, Mary A. Street, E.
C. Bullock, Elizabeth Harper, Susannah Wool-
ley and Mary A. Pratt.
	During the absence of the committee the
meeting was addressed by Mrs. Mary A.
Phelps. Mrs. Laura Liston, Mrs. Pres. Brown,
Mrs. F. E. Stewart, Mrs. E. Walker[-] and Mrs.
E. Hawley, who each made a few remarks on
the subject of plural marriage, and entered a
protest against the action of the ladies engaged
in the Crusade against us.
	Mrs. Mary J. T. Winters read her sentiments
in an ably written address which she had pre-
pared for the occasion. It was directly to the
point, in defense of the principle of plurality of
wives.	
	Miss P. E. Brown said: "I am proud of my
birth in Utah and that I have been reared in
polygamy. From my earliest recollection my
father has been a practical polygamist, and
were it necessary I would raise my voice in
protest to the kings and queens of the earth
against having our sacred family ties severed
as one portion of our family is as dear to me as
another. We are much obliged to our neigh-
bor sisters for their seeming sympathy, but
would advise them to keep it till solicited."
	Miss Clara Halliday: "I am proud to state
that I am a polygamist by birth as well as be-
lief. I know my parents are sincere in their
religion and its practice[-] and though we may
not have the advantages of book knowledge
equal to some of the children of the world,
we have the Spirit of God to teach us wisdom."	
	Miss Rosa Brown; "I too am a child born in
polygamy, and I am proud to declare it to the
world. I look upon my father as a man with
whom the Lord is well pleased because of the
integrity of his heart in keeping his com-
mands, and feel to pity those who are striving
to deprive us of our inalienable rights, and
would ask them to move wisely and petition
Congress to admit Utah as a State, which her
people have so long merited."
	Mrs. Hannan Woolley, Karren Heisett and
many other ladies raised their voices in earnest
protest against this anti-polygamy movement
which threatened the rights we hold so dear.


The report of the committee was then pre-
sented and the resolutions adopted by unani-
mous vote.
	Closed with singing and benediction.
								SECRETARIES.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Moroni, Sanpete Co., Dec. 5th, 1778,
Martha Ann Kemp; daughter of Charles and
Sarah Kemp, aged 17 years and 6 months. She
attended our evening meeting Sunday, Dec. 1,
and played on the organ during the service.
Her illness, only lasted three days She was a
teacher in the Sunday School, and also a mem-
ber of the choir. She enlivened as with sweet
notes on the organ. She was indeed a very in-
teresting and intelligent girl, and her sudden
departure cast a gloom over our settlement.
She was always punctural and faithful in filling
her position. She was a member of the Y. L.
M. I. Association, and was much beloved by 
both young and old. Her remains were taken
to the City Hall, where the funereal was held,
and appropriate remarks were made  by several
brethren. Twenty-three vehicles formed the
procession, and twenty young ladies followed
her remains to her last resting place.
	We sympathize with her parents and also
her relatives, who deeply mourn her absence.
May her dust rest in peace, that when the
trumpet shall sound she will come forth in the
morning of the first resurrection.
Farewell, dear sister, we shall meet no more
Till we arrive on Canaan's happy shores
There we shall meet at our Redeemer's seat,
And cast our crowns of victory at His feet.
Moroni, Dec. 18, 1878.			J. BAILEY.
DIED, at Nephi, Oct. 23d, 1878, of Diptheria,
Bessie Lizzette, daughter of Edward and Bessie
Sparks, aged 7 years and 1 month. This was
the eldest child, a lovely little girl, and the
parents are greatly affected by it, feeling it to
be a sore affliction. She was a Sunday School
scholar, and was of a most lovable disposition,
which endeared her to all her associates, and
caused her to be beloved by all who knew her.
It is sad indeed to part with our loved ones,
and we deeply sympathize with the parents
and family of this little girl, but there are
sad experiences of this sort in life, and we
should be specially tender to each other and
thus bear each other's burdens. We know and
have an assurance that these little ones are
saved from a life of sorrow and trouble. "Suf-
er little children to come unto me and forbid 
them not, for of such is the kingdom of hea-
ven."
DIED, at Rockport, Summit Co., Utah, Nov.
25th, 1878, of inflammaion of the bowels,
Charlotte Underhill Marchent, wife of Ed-
mund Marchent, aged 51 years, 6 months and
15 days. Deceased was born May 10th, 1827 at
Wickward, Glostershire, England. She leaves
a husband and daughter with numerous rela-
tives and friends to mourn her loss.
	She was the Treasurer in our Relief Society
and filled her office honorably. She was a
faithful Latter-day Saint beloved by all who
knew her. Her death cast a gloom over our
little settlement, but we feel that our loss is her
infinite gain. Blessed are the who die in
the Lord for they rest from their labors" and
come forth in the morning of the first resur-
rection."
ANN BRYANT, Pres't R.S.
SARAH STAKER, Sec'y.


FOUR hundred women have entered the
University of London this fall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
THE NEW COVENANT.

	Do we not feel to mourn when we see our
young people indifferent to the great work
of our Father's Kingdom? And why do
they ignore the excellency of the work?
Are they ignorant of the new covenant the
Lord has made with His people, prepara-
tory to His second coming? Perhaps you
ask when did He make this covenant? I
answer, when the angel came to Joseph
Smith to restore the Gospel as it was an-
ciently, with all its gifts, to the humble
and faithful Saints. That same covenant
is renewed to all who obey it and have an
eye single to the glory of God, then our
whole bodies are full of light. We see
whom we associate with, and know the re-
sult of the course we are taking. We then
know which is the downward course and
which will tend to happiness as a reward
to the just, for it is said "the just shall live
by faith." If so, can an unjust person ex-
pect the gift of faith? No, verily, no; none
but the upright and just, and those of true
integrity can have this gift. Yet we may
fail when our intentions are right. If the
common enemy retard our progress, then
we should humble ourselves, for it is the
humble and meek that the Lord will bless.
	The Book of Mormon shows that our
weaknesses are given for a wise purpose,
whereby we can come in humility to Father
for help and strength; yea, help in every
time of need.
	We read that we must be tried as "gold
seven times purified. How is that? It is
melted until the dross is all removed—un-
til the operator can see his face in the
heated metal; and when our trials produce
this effect our Savior can see this image in
us, that will be sufficient. Then, we will
be fit co-workers in His kingdom, and heirs
and joint heirs with Him. This is in ac
cordance with His words. The Jews were
expecting His coming to reign as King—
were they prepared for a celestial kingdom
before they received the laws pertaining to
that kingdom? Do you ask what they
were? You will find them contained in
the 5th, 6th and 7th chapters of Matthew,
called Christ's sermon on the Mount. This
education is necessary to a reign of peace
on the earth. Did any of the Jews believe
this? Yes a few—Jesus' Apostles and those
who believed on their words. The beauti-
ful illustration of the sheep and the goats
show what order and consistency is to be
observed in the celestial kingdom of our
Father.
	When our minds are lit up by the Spirit
of Christ, what order, what beauty and
consistency we see in the laws of the celes-
tial kingdom. It may well be said that it
is like a well of living water springing up
to everlasting life. It is always new, never
stale, or threadbare to those who have an
eye single to the glory of God, for they
possess that spirit which enlightens the
mind and enlivens the soul. When I look
upon those whose abilities are good, and
judgment sound, but minds dark upon this
subject, I think they are like a candle which
has never been lighted. They are in pos-
session of all the attributes of our Father,
but have not yet been lit up by that Spirit
by which they can become a light to the
world and a blessing to their associates.
Let us be up and doing, because "the days
are evil, and soon the night cometh in
which no man can work."
	M. E. KIMBALL.
S. L. City, Dec. 10, 1878.


A MASS MEETING

	BY THE LADIES OF PAYSON. 

	On Monday Dec. 9th the sisters of Payson
assembled at the meeting house. There
was a good representation. The meeting
was called to order by Mrs. Agnes Douglass:
on motion of Mrs. Mary Moore, Mrs. Jane
B. Simons was chosen to preside. Mrs. M.
A. Hardy was chosen secretary. Mrs. Jane
B. Simons then arose and stated the object
of the meeting, and said she would like the
sisters to express their sentiments, but be-
fore hearing from them she would read the
speech of Mrs. Zina D. Young, delivered at
the mass meeting in Salt Lake City, Nov.
6th, 1878. After the reading, the following
ladies addressed the assembly in a spirited
manner bearing upon the point at issue,
namely, declaring themselves opposed to
any interference with their social life or
religious belief. Mrs. Martha Simons, Mrs.
Emma Curtis, Mrs. Phebe Hancock, Mrs.
Mary Moore, Mrs. Agnes Douglass, Mrs.
Ann Pickering, Mrs. Susan Clayson, Mrs.
Elizabeth Higgs, Mrs. Fanny Coombs, Mrs.
Ellen Huish. After these appropriate and
earnest speeches the preamble and resolu-
tions were read which were adopted by the
ladies in Salt Lake City: a vote was then
taken endorsing said preamble and resolu-
tions; it was carried unanimously not one
dissenting voice. After singing and pray.
er meeting adjourned, sine die.
		M. A. HARDY Sec'y


ROME, GEORGIA, Oct. 27th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We were organized into a Relief Society
at our Conference held Aug. 10th, 11th and
12th, 1878, by Elder J. Morgan, with a good-
ly number of memebrs: the following offic-
ers were elected:

	V. Fawcett, President,
	Lina Lawrence,
	Emma Fawcett,        Counselors,
	Joanna O. Manning, Secretary.

	Thinking that you certainly had noticed
the organization of our soceity in the minu-
its of the conference in the Deseret News,
fearing that probably you might being to
think rather strange at the idea of my not
making any reports to you, I have come to
the conclusion that it owuld be proper to
give you some informatio in regard to the
matter. I haven't as yet heard  any word
from our president nor any of our sisters.
I cannot for even one minute imagine what
the cause for her not writing to me is, un-
less it is that so much opposition and perse-
cution exists, I assure you it runs high and 
seems to get worse in some places, especi-
ally where sister Fawcett lives, I guess they
think that it is best to remain quiet while
the opposition is so great and the persecu-
tion so bitter. But I can say that we have
been blest where we live; there is but very
litttle persecution in our part of the country
in comparison to some parts where branch-
es of the church are established, but I will
not boast for we know not how soon it may
change for the worse, people generally de-
test Mormonism, they haven't any sympathy
for any one who advocates Mormon princi-
ples, but for the respect that they have for
themselves and for our feelings they treat
us very kindly. We are surrounded by a
very generous hearted people who seem to
sympathise with us more than persecute,
unless it is once in a while one who seems
to care not what they say or do; but we as a
general thing stay at home and attend to
our own business, looking forward to the
future when we can enjoy better times, that
is all we can do under present circumstan-
ces. Through reading the columns of your
paper I can truly realize the good that is
derived from your Relief Societies and I was
delighted at the idea of our being organized
into a Relief Society, and I am truly sorry
that we cannot accomplish our desire, I was
in hopes that we might be able to do some
good if but little, it would be some satisfac-
tion; but we are in a scattered condition
and so many disadvantages all put together
it seems that we can't do any thing just yet
but hope better things for the future.
	I remain your faithful sister in the Gospel
of Christ.
						JOANNA MANNING. 

			KOOSHAREM, Nov. 19th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The ladies of Grass Valley wish to repre-
sent themselves as a Relief Society, we
were organized August 1st, 1878. by Bishop
Joe. H. Wright and Counselors, the follow-
ing ladies were chosen and set apart:
	Margrethe Anderson, President'
	Eliza Rust, 
	Sabra Hatch        Counselors,

Secretary and Treasurere were also elected.
The ladies seem to take a great interest in
the work of the Society and being awake to
their duty; we are all new beginners and
need all the instruction we can get realiz-
ing that your valuable paper is what we
need to keep up with the times. We re-
spectfully ask you to send to us "WOMANS
EXPONENT" one club that we may glean
instruction from that paper, we also hope
that some of our sisters from headquarters
will be kind enough to come and visit us,
we live a little to one side of the world as it
were, but that does not hinder us from en-
joying the spirit of God; we have seventy
four members enrolled: we hold meetings
semi monthly, and they are well attended,
and we feel that the spirit of God is with
us.
	Wishing continued success to the EXPO-
NENT, We Remain,
		Margrethe Anderson, President,
		Mary Jenson, Secretary.


WOMAN'S MASS MEETING AT NEPHI.

	According to appointment the ladies of
Juab Co. held a mass meeting in the Nephi
Meeting house for the purpose of express-
ing their sentiments with regard to their
religious and political rights as American
Citizens. On motion of Mrs. C. Kendall,
Mrs. A. Goldsbrough was elected president
of the meeting, Mrs. Pitchforth was chosen
Secretary, and Mrs. A. Bigler Assistant
Secretary. On motion of Mrs. J. Picton,
Mrs. H. Grover was called to take the chair.
The choir led by Mrs. E. Grace, sang "arise
O glorious Zion." Prayer by Mrs. H. Grover
Choir again sang. Mrs. H. Grover arose
and addressed the assembly: ladies and sis-
ters, of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. We meet here this day for the
purpose of declaring to the world and each
other, our sentiments in regard to our re-
ligious rights, and to enter our solemn pro-
test against that unhallowed Anti-Polyga-
my circular and letter, that has recently
been forwarded to Washington, to Mrs.
President Hayes; for the purpose of influ-
encing hostile legislation against the people
and true woman of Utah.
	The following ladies made some very
spirited and appropriate remarks. Mrs. A.


<k'. ailericantoek;="" k="" ay,="" a-masa.="" ilectingof="" the="" .wpmon.of?lis="" city="" was="" hejd-inthe="" meeting="" house="" dec.="" 1,4,="" 878.="" to="" protest="" against="" 1="" he="" anti-polygamy="" crusade="" of="" our="" gentile="" sisters="" called="" ordertby.mrs.-="" n="" crompton,="" on="" whoso="" motion.="" mrs.="" mary="" hindley="" elected="" chairman;="" mrs.-e.y="" tracy="" andmrsieathers="" ton="" esc’s.="" choir,="" sang,="" 'prayer="" by..mrs.="" q.,="" shelly.="" m.="" explained="" that="" ob-="" ject="" of-the="" ivas="" ta="" oxptess;-our="" views="" and="" senttmenlsandltd="" protest’dgainst="" measures="" ,entp;pd="" into="" by="" -gentile="" ladles="" tmt="" lake.city,-="" roliu3="" odmir.="" homes,="" pur="" husbands,="" franchise;.="" and-the="" inestimable="" right="" worshiping="" god'according="" dictates'="" oar="" ownj="" ....="" consciences,="" this="" own="" ser="" in="" thisboastb'd="" ‘land="" freedbrd,="" thejand="" nativity="" adoption.="" it="" behooves="" us,="" my="" rise="" iip="" wicked="" interference,="" give"="" them="" understand="" we="" know="" what="" are="" doing,="" whomwjs="" trust,="" will="" not="" tame-="" ly="" submit="" have="" our.rights="" trampled="" upon.-="" featherstone="" then="" read="" circular="" clergy="" memorial="" congress="" tha="" opposed="" polygamy="" following="" jadie3="" were="" chosen="" draft="" resolutions:="" l.="" harrington,="" e.b.="" clarke,="" c.="" shelley,="" j.="" hindley,="" a;="" mpwiey,="" mott="" .king.="" after="" the?="" committee="" had="" retired="" m.,="" addressed="" meeting.="" beloved="" sisters:="" you="" all="" knciw"ih'a="" bur="" has;="" been="" canvassed="" two;girls="" seeking="" algdatures="" a="" petition,="" polygamy.="" is="" accordance="" with="" clergy,="" and,="" who="" has.signed="" it?="" few="" poor="" weak="" women="" anil="" some="" children,="" they="" but="" yet="" be="" sorry="" fpr="" course="" halve="" taken,="" somb="" these="" dur="" sisters,="" gathered="" hero="" fortho="" "="" same="" purpose="" as="" ourselves;="" oi="" how;="" i="" pity,="" them,what="" bp="" their="" anguish="" when="" realize="" nature="" crime.="" wo="" husbands="" men="" god,="" faithful="" embracing="" this,="" principle="" has="" obedienteto="" thereve--="" lationaiofheaven,.and="" wo,="" qver="" defpnd="" holy="" andpure="" principle,="" which="" cair="" culated,to.="" raise="" human="" family="" from="" its.="" fallen="" degraded="" condition,="" one="" more="" elevated="" noble;="" oven="" dwell="" polygamiefathers="" abraham,="" isaac="" jacob.="" liyedin="" holy.order="" twenty="" three="" years="" am="" proud="" it,="" children="" born="" other,="" wives,="" i.="" love,="" if="" th6y="" wereiny.owd="" that.="" companion.wives="" good="" virtuous="" join="" you-="" iti="" protesting="" ipterferenco="" those="" ‘of="" tis,="" making="" laws="" deprive="" us="" privilege="" god="" according="" dictates.of="" consciences;="" r="" the,commltteo)returnedwlth.the="" eoso-="" lutions7="" similar="" ihoso’="" ”the="" ladies="" salt-lake="" an'pfijvo;.="" jirfl,.nmfv’t.s="" smoot,="" h.="" cromptoii,="" 'at="" kelly,.="" c.n="" bhelleyr="" l.eh="" jdarrant="" many="" morebf="" sis-="" ters="" expressed="" tyilllngness="" !to="" sustain="" plurality="" wives."="" testimonies="" earnest="" and5="" pointed1="" carried="" firmness="" thbriribi-="" pie="" patriarchal="" marriage="" whichtouldr="" gainsayed;="" also="" several="" young="" themselves="" propdthat="" tkey="" daughveramuraf="" sgjgfi="" eeslutions="" put="" to!="" vote="" unanimously="" adopted.="" adjourned="" sine="" die,="" choicpg.="" ,-benedic="" ..="" tion="" by-mrs.="" john...="" ji-avv!?="" :="" <="" div="">[Column 1]

Goldsbrough, Mrs. M. Pitchforth, Mrs. E.
Kendall, Mrs. M. Bryan, Mrs. C. Brown,
Mrs. A. Bigler, Mrs. E. Oakey.
	Mrs. Goldsbrough said; I reccommend that
we women of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, of Juab stake in Mass
meeting assembled: fully endorse the Pre-
amble and Resolutions passed by the wo-
men of the Latter-day Saints in Mass Meet-
ing assembled in the Theatre in Salt Lake
City, Nov. 16th 1878: which resolutions
were read by Mrs. Amy Bigler and were
unanimously adopted. Adjourned sine die.
Benediction by Mrs. E. Kendall.
	Mary Pitchforth Secretary.

AMERICAN FORK.

	A Mass Meeting of the women of this
city was held in the meeting house Dec. 14,
1878. to protest against the Anti-polygamy
crusade of our Gentile sisters.
	Meeting was called to order by Mrs. H.
Crompton, on whose motion Mrs. Mary
Hindley was elected Chairman. Mrs. E.
Tracy and Mrs. E. Featherstone Sec's.
Choir sang, prayer by Mrs. C. Shelly.
	Mrs. M. Hindley explained that the ob-
ject of the meeting was to express our
views and sentiments, and to protest against
the measures entered into by the Gentile
ladies of Salt Lake City, to rob us of our
homes, our husbands, and the franchise;
and the inestimable right of worshiping
God according to the dictates of our own
consciences, and this by our own sex in
this boasted land of freedom, the land of
our nativity and adoption. It behooves us,
my sisters, to rise up against this wicked
interference, and give them to understand
that we know what we are doing, and in
whom we trust, and that we will not tame-
ly submit to have our rights trampled upon. 
Mrs. Featherstone then read the Circular
to the Clergy and the Memorial to Congress
of the ladies opposed to polygamy. The
following ladies were then chosen to draft
resolutions: L. Harrington, E. D. Clarke, C.
Shelley, J. Hindley, A. Mowley, M. Mott
and M. King. After the committee had
retired Mrs. M. Hindley addressed the
meeting. My Beloved sisters: You all
know that our city has been canvassed by
two girls seeking aignatures to a petition
against polygamy. This is in accordance
with the Circular to the Clergy, and who
has signed it? a few poor weak women and
some children, who know not what they
are doing, but who will yet be sorry for the
course they have taken, and some of these
have been our sisters, gathered here for the
same purpose as ourselves; O! how I pity,
them, what will be their anguish when they
realize the nature of their crime. We know
that our husbands are men of God, faithful
to their trust, and their embracing this
principle has been in obedience to the reve-
lations of heaven, and we will ever defend
that holy and pure principle, which is cal-
culated to raise the human family from its
fallen and degraded condition, to one more
elevated and noble; even to dwell with our
polygamic fathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.
I have lived in this holy order twenty three
years and I am proud of it, and of our
children born of other wives, and I love
them as if they were my own. I know that
my companion wives are good and virtuous
women, and I join with you in protesting
against the interference of those who are
not of us, and against Congress making
laws to deprive us of the privilege of
worshiping God according to the dictates of
our own consciences.
	The committee returned with the Reso-

[Column 2]

lutions, which were similar to those of the
ladies of Salt Lake and Provo. Mrs. M. T.
Smoot, Mrs. H. Crompton, Mrs. A. Kelly,
Mrs. C. Shelley, Mrs. L. E. Harrington,
Mrs. J. Durrant and many more of the sis-
ters expressed their willingness to sustain
the principle of plurality of wives. The
testimonies were earnest and pointed and
carried with them a firmness in the princi-
ple of Patriarchal marriage which could not
be gainsayed; also several of our young
ladies expressed themselves proud that
they were the daughters of plural wives.
The Reslutions of the Committee were put
to vote and unanimously adopted. Meeting
adjourned sine die. Choir sang. Benedic-
tion by Mrs. Mary John.
	Emma Fetherstone, Ass't Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For<i their-iot="" :is:st,<="" audlldeferential="" wsjps&ic="" 11="" from="" all.,.="" ,.="" -j.boinan="" god-punlshed="" with="" a="" awift.yengeancothq,="" ;="" boys="" who="" derided="" ishaftn#="" i'.tjjoughpv,="" may="" not;be="" kogrlevous="" blh,’yet'="" wo="" must="" acknowledge="" there="" is="" in="" this="" day="" lack="" of="" deferenco.ta="" tfie="" agedi'="" “<="" div=""> the EXPONENT.
		SCATTER SUNSHINE.

	Yes, scatter sunshine everywhere, and
the reflection of its rays will beautify and
bless thine own life. How blessed it is to
be able to give joy, to be instrumental in
diffusing happiness, to touch with kind-
ness the heart of a fellow-creature, to kin-
dle pleasure in the eye even of a little
child, a helpless babe-all these are noble,
but to show delicate attentions to the aged,
to impart comfort in such a way that it
gladdens the weary pilgrim who is journey-
ing near to "the gates that stand ajar," is
something sublimely beautiful. Scatter
the sunshine of love in the path of those
who are not able to participate in those
pursuits and recreations which warm the
blood and invigorate the mind.
	We sometimes think that many of the
weary fathers and mothers, who have borne
the perplexities and ills of life, have too
little respect even, and their lives, as it
were, almost barren of affection; in some
lonely corner, secluded from the bustle and
cares of the world in which they no longer
take an active part, some sit the weary day
out, patiently waiting God's time to release
them from the ills of life and the neglect
of those who should at least make them
cheerful and contented, after they have
worn themselves out in usefulness and min-
istering to the wants of others.
	There are many little kindnesses and
tender endearments which younger people
can show to the aged that would scatter.
sunshine around their way and brighten
their lonely path. When the sun shines
upon inanimate nature how it glorifies it,
how different its aspect in the sunlight-in
like manner does the sunshine of tender-
ness and love change the feelings of the
heart.
	It is natural to love all that is beautiful,
there is no great nobility of character in
that, although we admire to see a taste for
the beautiful in nature, in art, in science,
in literature, in fact in all things, but when
one cultivates a love for that which has lost
its beauty, for a nobler and higher aim, un-
selfishly, we cannot but feel that person
possesses genuine goodness. If I had the 
power to impress upon the minds of the
young the importance of love and tender
solicitude for the aged, I should feel I had
accomplished something creditable. Moth-
ers, seek to engraft into the hearts of your
little children the qualities that will make
them tender and solicitous for the happiness
and pleasure of those who are not young
and buoyant enough to relish with the same
zest the enjoyments of this life. Many of
this class are really sufferers, full of aches
and pains, help them to forget them some-
times by rendering them truly happy.
	Sunshine is a potent power, and the sun-
shine of affection is equally so. Let us
train up our children not only to be respect-
ful but tender to the aged, and set them
this noble example, that they may grow up
with this beautiful sentiment engraven up-
on their hearts. It is not always the poor
who lack sunshine most, it is often those
who have many creature comforts-these 
do not fill the void in the heart, and it is
well they do not; often indeed we find an
aching heart under the richest trappings.
Elderly people are very apt to shrink from
notice, lest they should mar the enjoyment
or infringe upon the privileges of the
younger people, but they are entitled to
the kindest consideration and thoughful
devotion on the part of those with whom
their lot is cast, and deferential respect 
from all.
	God punished with s swift vengeance the
boys who derided Elisha, and though we
may not be guilty of so grievous a sin, yet
we must acknowledge there is in this day a
lack of deference to the aged.
				AUNT EM.


PRESERVED FLOWERS. 

	I took from its safe-keeping place the
other day, a small box containing, among
other little mementoes of my lost children,
a couple of little sprays of flowers, now
withered and yellow and dry, but which
were fresh when I took them—one from
out the little baby hands which clasped it,
the other from near the soft round cheek
against which it nestled, and I thought how
many such sprays there were kept by sorrow[-]
ing mother-hearts, made dear beyond all
price, because they were the last earthly
things touched by the tiny hands of little
ones gone before.
	Although carefully and sacredly kept,
these precious relics of a joy known and
lost must soon crumble into dust, and
little by little be lost; and I thought of a
plan of which I had heard for keeping
these mementoes, and, perhaps, it may be
as new to some of your readers as it was to
me.
	Not only can these flowers from off the
still bosom of some loved lost one be kept
fresh and bright, but the symbols of happier
occasions as well.
	The flowers should be fresh, and of
white or delicate colors. the green leaves
should be separated from their blossoms.
Place in a perfectly clean vessel a quantity
of the best quality of paraffine, and put
this vessel in another containing hot water.
when the paraffine is wholly melted, dip
each flower separately into the wax taking
care that each part is covered with the
mixture. A coating is thus formed, which
excludes the air, and still allows the flower
to retain its freshness. Leaves should be
treated similarly, but the wax should be
colored green, as near in shade as possible.
Chrome green, lightened with chrome
yellow, is, I think, nearer than anything
else to the desired tint. The flowers and
leaves can then be arranged in clusters or
crosses or wreaths, and placed secure from
dust and flies, either under a glass globe, or
in a deep frame made for the purpose.
	Flowers are said to be preserved by m[-]re-
ly smoking them with sulphur, after the
mode of bleaching hats, that is, to suspend
the flowers in the fumes arising from burn-
ing sulphur, which should be con[-]n[-]d by
means of an air tight box.
	To photograph leaves procure a little
bichromate of potash, with which make a 
strong solution. Soak a piece of letter-paper


in a little of the liquid, and place in the
dark to dry; it should then be yellow in
color. On it place the leaf or fern to be
photographed, and under it a piece of soft
black cloth, and several folds of newspaper[-]
place all between two panes of glass, and
secure well, and place in bright sun rays.
In a few hours a perfect impression will
have been received. The paper must then
be held under the water-tap until the yel-
low has become perfectly white; when this
is carefully dried, the process is complete.
	A pretty and novel receptacle for ferns,
dried grasses, or autumn leaves, can be made
out of a cow's horn by boring a hole through
the ends, in which put a couple of brass
rings, suspend by a brass chain on a ribbon,
it makes a very pretty holder, either for
articles named, or for a little vine growing
in earth or water. The horn should be
boiled to cleanse it properly.
		American Home.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	At the meeting of the Relief Society of Cen-
treville, on the 11th of December, each speaker
bore testimony to the truth of the principle of
Celestial Marriage. The Preamble and Reso-
lutions of the ladies of Salt Lake City at the
mass meeting in the Theatre on the 16th of
Nov., were read, and a vote was taken to en-
dorse them in full, which was carried unani-
mously; the addresses of the ladies on that oc-
casion expressed our sentiments.
	The members of the Relief Society here feel
well in helping to build up Zion.
	Yours respectfully,
		MARGARET RANDALL, Pres't R. S.
Centreville.

EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Our Relief Society is in a flourishing condi-
tion; we have assisted in the emigration to the
amount of $57.19, have made a number of
quilts, and are also saving grain. Our Bishop
and Counselors visit our meetings and give us
good counsel. We are striving to live our re-
ligion and do what is required of us both in
word and deed.
	We are proud of our paper (the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT), its pages are fraught with wisdom,
and its influence is being felt abroad. Our de-
sires are to be co-workers with our sisters in as-
sisting in all good works.
	MARY ANN P. SCHOW. Pres't.
	JANE S. COLEMAN, Sec'y.
Escelenta.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A Mass Meeting of the ladies of Sugar House
Ward, was held in the Relief Society Hall,
Dec. 4th, 1878, President Mrs. S. B. Gibson
presiding. Many sisters expressed their feel-
ings, and all felt to uphold and sustain the
principle of plural marriage. The preamble
and resolutions passed by the ladies at the
Theatre on Saturday, Nov. 16, were read and
unanimously adopted.
	SARAH WHEELER, Sec'y.


MRS. MUSSER
Will be pleased to see her friends at her
MILLINERY and NOTION STORE
South of the Old Constitution Buildings,
East Temple Street.
Professor Bell's Telephone, and Professor Edison's
Electric Pen, for multiplying letters and all kinds of
blanks are on exhibition. No charge for explaining
their uses.

NOTICE

				NOTICE TO ALL!
P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell
		    sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
				 REMEMBER ALL.

	  New Goods for the Fall and Winter 1878.
AN Immmense Stock of those cheap and durable white
and red, twilled and plain FLANNELS,
just received from the Provo Mills.  Also Dress Flannels,
Waterproofs, Linseys, Blankets, Jean[-], Yarns, Cloths,
Double, Single and Shoulder Shawls, Trunks, Brooms,
Tinware, Shoes, Dixie Cotton Batting, and other goods,
at the Commission House.
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Residence-Ephriam, Sanpete County.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street. a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly,
GEO. A. LUKE & CO.,
Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Swithches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.	97 Kimball Block

THE FINE ARTS.
The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G.  M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds 
on hand.
	Send your orders to 	C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE-Above Dr. H. J. Richard & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-operative Store.
Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
Special attention given to obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes. Velevet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH 7 BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kids Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
					    AT
                                      TEASDEL'S 

	         Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL.
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

John Taylor, Pres't. 		Wm. Jennings, Vice-Pres't.
DESERET
 
		DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNRRY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City. All those who desire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time purchase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliab e quality at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders to
WM. H. ROWE.
SUPERINTENDENT.	

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
