VOL. 7.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUG. 15, 1878.		No. 6.


LINES,
ADDRESSED TO ELDER JOHN NICHOLSON,
PREVIOUS TO HIS DEPARTURE, ON A
MISSION TO EUROPE.

BY MISS ELIZA R. SNOW.

The stream of time is ebbing low—
	The closing scene is near:
There's a much to do, then Brother go,
	Although we need you here.
On Europe's shore a broader field
	Of work you're called to fill:
We know the voice of God, and yield
	Submission to his will.

CHORUS.

Remember Brother, everywhere
	In duty's path you tread,
We'll pour, by constant faith and prayer,
	Our blessings on your head.

When far from these dear mountain vales,
	Where warm, fond hearts you leave,
While time and distance, silently
	Their twofold web shall weave,
Supported by Jehovah's arm—
	Protected by his power
He'll bear you off o'er every harm.
	And gild the darkest hour.

CHORUS.

The nations' pulses you must feel:
	Mark well their swift decay;
And timely warn the pure in heart,
	To rise and come away,
Your heart inspired with heav'nly zeal
	Salvation's power to spread;
You'll move the mighty Cause and bless
	The living and the dead.

CHORUS.

Tell those who wield th' affairs of State—
	Let haughty tyrants hear—
The worldly wise and worldly great,
	The day of God is near.
He'll bind the powers of wickedness—
	He'll make the oppressor cease—
He,ll crown the world with righteousness,
	With Knowledge, Truth and Peace.

CHORUS.


SOCIAL GATHERING.

	The poem published above was sung at
the residence of Elder C. J. Thomas, where
a few of the relatives and friends of Elder
John Nicholson had met in recognition of
their affection and respect for him, as he
intends leaving home shortly on a mission
to Europe. There were present his aged
parents, all his own immediate family, Br.
John Barton and family, Miss E. R. Snow
and officers of the Relief Society of the
18th Ward, and other particular friends.
It was a complete surprise for Br. Nichol-
son. The poem was sung by Mrs. Elizabeth
Thomas, Mrs. Fannie Thatcher playing the
accompaniment on the organ. Br. Nichol-
son expressed himself in a few words of
grateful acknowledgement appropriate to
the time and circumstances. The guests
then sat down to a bountiful repast, which
had been previously arranged, and the
time was spent in agreeable and social con-
versation. The sentiment expressed by
Miss Snow in the chorus will no doubt be
fully verified during the absence of Br.
Nicholson, and we trust he will realize he
has the faith and prayers of the Saints-
and especially those who know him inti,


mately. We say, God bless Elder Nichol-
son and keep him in His holy care, that he
may accomplish great good in disseminat-
ing the principles of truth.


[Column 1]
A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

CONTINUED.

	After having made this preface to my
short narrative, I will introduce myself to
the readers of the EXPONENT, by telling
them I was born in the first year of the
19th century, (and must confess myself as
being proud of my Yankee origin,) in one
of the quaintest and most primitive little
villages near the seashore opposite Long
Island, in the State of Connecticut. ten
miles only from the beautiful city of New
Haven. The family from which I was de-
scended, ranked as one of the oldest in the
country.
	I was the eldest child, and grew up in
an atmosphere of love and tenderness. I
received all the advantages of education,
such as young ladies usually enjoyed at
that time, and was taught dancing among
other things, which, in the religious world
in that day, was not considered orthodox.
My parents were not members of any
church, and they wished me to enjoy life,
and thought dancing added grace and easi-
ness to one's manner.
	My father had no sympathy with any of
the priests of the day, although he was
honest, moral and upright in all his acts.
In looking back over the long vista of years
which have intervened since that time,
the[-]e is nothing connected with my child-
hood and early girlhood upon which I dwell
with more satisfaction than the companion-
ship of my father. My mother was of
a delicate, nervous temperament, and with
household duties and younger children to
occupy her, she allowed me to choose my
own society, and I clung more closely to my
father. Shortly after I became of age a
new era of my life opened, and the whole
current of my fortune changed. I was sepa-
rated from my parents, and through a com-
plication of circumstances which followed,
was debarred from ever seeing my mother
again.
	A maiden aunt of mine, very independ-
ent and self-reliant, concluded to go to
Ohio and make a home. It was then a new
country, comparatively, and to undertake
so long a journey was almost as remarkable
then as to go round the world would be
now. She entreated my parents to allow
me to go with her, and after much inter-
ceding and many promises they at last con-
sented, realizing that she would be faithful
in her office as guardian and protector, and
knew her to be competent to act for herself
and her niece, and as she had property at
her own disposal, felt I would be well off
and should gain a new experience and see
something of the world.
	The journey was particularly pleasant,
the scenery upon the way was a rich feast
to me, who had never been far from home;
New Haven and the seashore were to my
mind beautiful indeed, but traveling over
this wonderful country was like the land of
enchantment.

[Column 2]
	We settled a few miles inland from Lake
Erie; the country was new and wild, which
added to its picturesqueness, and I was
happy in my new home and surroundings.
My beloved aunt was a true and affection-
ate friend to me, and had great influence
over me in molding my character and de-
veloping my strongest attributes. We were
sincerely attached to each other, and no
young girl ever had a wiser or more judi-
cious guardian than was this maiden aunt
to me. My father made up his mind to
come West, but circumstances not proving
propitious, and my mother not desiring to
change her residence, they concluded to
remain at the homestead.
	There is little occasion to dwell long upon
the incidents which subsequently trans-
pired previous to my becoming acquainted
with one who afterwards became my hus-
band. Suffice it to say he was a young man,
and had come out West to "seek his for-
tune." He had thrift and energy, and he
accumulated property faster than most of
his companions and associates. Indeed, he
became proverbial as being lucky in all his
undertakings. He had been trading at
Green Bay, buying furs and skins from the
Indians and trappers, for the Eastern mar-
ket, exchanging them for goods suitable
for the wants of the people in that locality:
In his travels to and from New York he
passed through the country where we re-
sided, and "we met by chance." became
attached to each other, and my aunt grant-
ing her full approval, we were married
after a courtship of reasonable length, as in
those days girls were not allowed to marry
without the lover paying court for a certain
length of time. Yet ours was strictly a
marriage of affection. Our tastes, our feel-
ings were congenial, and we were really a
happy couple, with bright prospects in
store. Our marriage was looked upon by
our relatives and friends, according to the
old Yankee phrase, as highly proper and
decidedly respectable.
			(To be continued.)


AN ASSOCIATION of women is being or-
ganized in Berlin, Prussia, to furnish free
medical advice for poor, sick women. Med-
icines will be furnished gratis. The phys-
icians who have offered their services to
this institution are the Misses Tiburtius
and Lehmus, doctors of medecine. These
ladies have studied at Zurich. The cousul-
tations will be given twice a week.—EX.

	WE HAVE upon our list of exchanges two
papers new to us, published by women, and
ably edited. "The Physiologist," by Sara
M. B. Chase, A. M. M. D., New York City,
is devoted more especially to the laws of
life and health, etc. "The Beacon of Pro-
gress," edited by Mary E. Haggart at In-
dianapolis, is a smaller paper now in its
second volume. It treats on the equality
of sex, universal suffrage, woman's ad-
vancement in business, education and poli-
tics, etc., in a fair and just manner. The
editor evidently is not afraid of Mormon
writings, as we notice she has reprinted
one of our editorials, for which favor we re-
turn our sincere thanks. We believe it is
the best policy to help each other, and that
in mutual help there is much strength.


42		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, July 20, was intensely interest-
ing, Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding, Mrs. E.
B. Wells Sec'y. "pro. tem." The minutes
of the young ladies showed a marked im-
provement which is most encouraging, and
the speeches all seemed spirited and full of
light. President M. Isabella Horne, Coun-
selors S. M. Kimball, B. W. Smith, Phebe
Wooodruff, and Mrs. Hannah T. King, Mrs. S.
M. Heywood, Mrs. E. S. Taylor, and Mrs.
E. B. Wells each addressed the meeting.
The subjects were the organizations of the
sisters, the good they had accomplished,
the future field open before them, home
duties, the training of children, decorum
in public meetings and especially the
House of God; night excursions, molding
of character, faith in sickness, the adminis-
tration of the ordinance for healing, the sick.
The "franchise," the coming election, wo-
man's duty on petitions, naturalization
papers, the Rochester Convention, the stor-
ing of grain, the raising of white beans,
the class of reading most suitable for the
young people of Zion, keeping the Sabbath
day holy, regarding the feelings of others,
home industries, and how we could best
promote them, and a great many other
points were spoken upon in an earnest and
impressive manner.

	General Retrenchment Meeting, Satur-
day Aug. 3, at the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, was well attended and very
interesting. Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding
and on the stand with her were Counselors
Miss Eliza R. Snow, B. W. Smith, S. M.
Kimball, Phebe Woodruff, and other promi-
nent sisters. Mrs. E. B. Wells, acting
Secretary. The President made opening
remarks upon the care of children during
the hot weather, exhorted mothers to be
careful about the food they give the child-
ren, and exposure to heat and draughts;
said she felt pleased with the movements
made recently for woman's advancement.
She felt the Lord had heard the cries of
his daughters and was blessing them. In
all great questions there was always more
or less opposition. Counselor E. R. Snow
was the next speaker, she had been absent
from three meetings and during that time
had visited the societies in many places;
she gave a short sketch of her travels and
meetings with the sisters, their organiza-
tions and the great work that was being ac-
complished little by little. Miss Snow said
wherever she had visited she had instruct-
ed the sisters to take out naturalization pa-
pers, those who were not citizens. Wo-
man's cause is man's cause there is no sep-
arating the two, but woman's work and 
man's work are different. God is at the
helm, and he chooses such instruments as
He sees fit to do His work; it is all one with
us, it is a universal interest. We can see
the sphere of man is extending and wo-
man's place is at the side of her husband,
as his counselor not dictator. Miss Snow
said during her journey whenever she
visited a new place, she told the people if
she knew the character of the women of
the place, she would know the state of so-
ciety; she entreated the sisters to read the
newspapers, and learn the condition and
needs of the country, what was going on
in the world, if the mothers were too busy
to read the news, let the children read to
them while they were at work, and keep
posted on all affairs of public interest; spoke
earnestly on the subject of storing grain

[Column 2]
and beans and preparing for a day of need,
said our motto should be "make hay while
the sun shines," and lay up our stores now
when there is an abundant harvest. Mrs.
Hannah T. King next addressed the meet-
ing; she remarked that Miss Snow's dis-
course was most excellent and ought to be
written word for word and published to the
world. She felt strengthened by it, and
that the spirit of the Lord was there, she
rejoiced in the sisters meetings; she felt
the women of this church had passed
through such experiences as had prepared
them to fill important positions. She also
felt that some of us had been called upon
lately to act in places that woman had nev-
er filled before. Whom the Lord loveth
He chasteneth, woman had been consider-
ed subordinate, but she felt was now mov-
ing forward and occupying a broader and
higher sphere. She would not arrogate to
herself the title of a woman's rights advo-
cate, but gloried in woman's capabilities:
bore testimony to the efficacy of the Gos-
pel to comfort at all times and through all
trials.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke upon the relation
of woman to society, her influence for good
when properly directed, the necessity there
was of preserving an equal balance on all
subjects, not to be extreme, but to ask for
wisdom and use every means given us ju-
diciously; said there were many causes
which had induced the women of the
world to battle for the Suffrage and one of
these was intemperance. There was a 
spirit and influence now brought to bear in
the work women were doing, that was
scarcely understood, but she rejoiced in the
stand now being taken by women of judg-
ment and intelligence.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney said when we assem-
ble ourselves together we always feel bles-
sed and comforted, she felt there had been
a great deal of instruction given in the
proper course of improvement, "it will be
well for us all to take the noblest methods,
all have not the same capacity, if we listen
when we come here we will learn many
useful items. The training of our children
is of the most serious consequence. I
wish our girls could be better trained, many
of them. I do not like night excursions,
nor to see our girls hanging over the gate
post, such conduct is beneath them, but we
cannot any of us walk the perfect mark,
I expect to miss it many times, but I in-
tend to keep on trying, I hope that we will
so faithfully serve "our Father" that we
will be fully satisfied with our reward."
Pres. Horne said she would like to mention
the election, it was to take place on Mon-
day next, and we should all go to the polls
and vote that were legal voters, and had
been registered under the new election
law, and maintain our own institutions; "our
votes count just as much as those of our
brethren, and we are becoming a power in
the land; this reminds us of what Bro. D.
H. Wells once said in one of our meetings,
he said "the sisters are becoming quite a
power, and for my part I am not afraid to
trust them." These meetings are of
great benefit to the sisters; they obtain
through this medium much spiritual
strength as well as knowledge on a variety
of subjects which if properly applied will
aid them in every day life, as well as help
them to attain to an exaltation in the fu-
ture.

			HARRISVILLE, July 17, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Association of Harrisville was organized in

[Column 3]
the year, 1875, Nov. 11th, under the direc-
tion of Miss E. R. Snow, with the follow-
ing officers;

	Miss Leonora Rawson, President,
	"	Cyntha Shurtliff,	  }
	"	Polly Rawson,	  }
	"	Almeda Taylor,	  }	Counselors,
	"	Sariah Rawson,	  }
	"	Margaret Pritchett }
	"	Lovina Shurtliff,	  }
	"	Sarah Dixon, Secretary,
	"	Mary Wilson, Assistant Secretary,
	"	Harriet Daybell, Treasurer.
	We hold our meetings as regular as possi-
ble, and have a good attendance, consider-
ing our scattered condition; we read your
excellent paper in our meetings, and feel
blessed thereby. We feel that we have a
work to do as well as the elder sisters, and
by thus commencing in our youth, we shall
be more capable as we grow older than we
could be if we had not this privilege. It
is a great privilege the young enjoy in these
organizations, and we should esteem it as
such and improve our time. Hoping that
God will bless all who are trying to serve
Him, we remain
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		LEONORA RAWSON, President,
		SARAH DIXON, Secretary.

			CROYDEN, MORGAN CO.,
						July 27, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of Croyden was re-
organized Oct. 22, 1877, by Bishop John
Hopkins and Counselors. The following
named sisters were then unanimously
elected as officers:

	Helen Thackeray, President,
	Mary Hopkins,	}	Counselors.
	Fanny Swann,	}
	Elizabeth Blackwell, Secretary,
	Hannah London, Treasurer.

	We have eighteen names enrolled as
members; and all manifest a co-working
spirit in this great cause. We assist the
poor in whatever way we can; have do-
nated liberally to the Temple, and are us-
ing our uttermost exertions in storing
wheat.
	The 24th of July was duly observed and
celebrated here. During the day we had
a pleasant and social time, and in the eve
ning a dance, which was designed and man-
aged throughout by the sisters, and proved,
financially, a success. The musicians,
Father John Toone and J. and W. Brown-
ing, donated their services for the occasion.
	Wishing your valuable paper much suc-
cess, &c.
		HELEN THACKERY, Pres't,
		ELIZABETH BLACKWELL, Sec'y.


CONNECTICUT has at last gained one point
towards “Woman Suffrage.” The women
will be permitted to vote in school meet-
ings, and the men no doubt think they
have made a wonderful concession to allow
women the privilege of electing the men
who regulate affairs for the education of
their children, boys and girls, teachers’
wages, and so on, in a State where a heavy
percentage of the teachers are women with
poor salaries. However, part of a loaf is
better than no bread at all, and a judicious
use of this privilege may pave the way for
future independence for women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SONG OF THE HEART.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

The harp within my heart of a thousand strings
Is all unstrung,
Or only just a few vibrating chords
Alone are sung,
For death again has broken up my heart,
And made me mourn,
The sister much beloved has  pass'd away
To that last bourn!
Youth and its sunny hours and friends are gone
Their voices mute,
And only memory's aid can wake again
The heart's sweet lute;
Yet have we friends and oh! they love us well,
And we love them;
But youth's sweet poem, once so proudly sung
None sing again.
And do I pine that I can sing no more.
What once I sang?
That I the past can never more recall?
Gives this a pang?
No! no! the past is past, and I would not recall
Even one day,
But on! on! higher, higher yet
My heart doth say.
Yes, let it go! the stream of life flows on
With noiseless roll,
And day by day, and night by night, we do approach
The final goal.
My much loved sister thou hast reach'd the goal
The dark, dull river
Is crossed, and thy enfranchised soul
Is with the Giver!
The great, grand Giver of the boon of life
My God, and thine;
Free from all sorrow, from all care set free
In realms divine!
Dear innocent, cheerful, gay and loving Mary
Loving guileless Mary,
Angels of highest order close around
My sister Mary.
Suppress the sigh, press back the starting tear
We give thee joy!
Thou dost behold thy Father face to face,
Without alloy.
And in our heart thy cenotaph we place.
S. L. City, July, 1878.


[Column 1]
VISIT OF THE QUEEN TO THE RE-
LIEF SOCIETY.

LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
July 6th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Thinking a short sketch of a Royal visit
to our isolated home might be of interest
to some of the readers of the EXPONENT,
I forward the following. Her Majesty
Queen Kapiolani, arrived here just at the
close of our morning services. Her design
was to reach here in time for our meeting,
but on account of the illness of one of the
party she was detained. Her attendants
consisted of her sister Pooloku, Col. Judd,
and Miss Pitman, with a number of servants
all bearing some big title pertaining to the
Palace household, such as cup bearer, cham-
bermaid, steward, etc. She was making a
tour around the Island for pleasure, and in
the interests of the Hui Hoola Lahui (Re-
lief Society.) We bade them welcome in
an easy manner, leaving out no doubt many
of the court titles usually applied to people
holding such positions, which appeared to
have the effect of making them feel at
home. At 1 o'clock p. m. a messenger ar-
rived to tell her Majesty the people were
assembled ready to receive and hear her
instructions. We all walked to the meet-
ing house which was filled to overflowing,
anxiously waiting her arrival; as she en-
tered, the people arose to their feet, the
choir singing a song of welcome composed

[Column 2]
for the occasion. The house was nicely
decorated with evergreens, with appropri-
ate mottoes on the walls, and a beautiful
crown composed of ferns just over her Maj-
esty's seat. The meeting being opened,
she arose and read her speech, which was
short but to the point, urging the people to
continue in the good works of administering
to the afflicted and destitute, gave some
good advice in regard to the management
of the society, disbursements of means, etc
Col. Judd followed, spoke of the prosperity,
union and contentment of the people here;
thought much credit was due to the foreign
Elders; after which Elders Molen and Rich-
ards occupied a few minutes each, in sup-
port of the Queen's instructions, eulogised
her in her work of charity among the peo-
ple. 
	After returning to the house the natives
were permitted to shake hands with her
Majesty and say "aloha;" many of the old-
er ones who had not entirely forgotten their
ancient habits of showing deference to
their nobles, approached her on their knees,
or with heads almost bowed to the ground;
while the more enlightened ones only
showed due respect. This over, we all,
(the Queens party and members of the Mis-
sion) sat down to the table and partook of a 
plain but hearty dinner. The Queen is a
nice looking woman, very affable and kind,
but not loquacious. Her sister, Pooloku, is
more of a lively turn, appears to enjoy a
good joke and quite as ready to take as give
one. Miss Pitman has traveled considera-
bly in the U. S., is well informed and quite
a talker; she visited S. L. City not long ago,
and is full of praise and admiration of that
place and the people.
	By previous invitation they were the
guests of Bro. Kaleohano where they re-
paired in the evening. They felt so much
at home their stay was prolonged two days.
	The natives flocked around them by hun-
dreds, and did all in their power to make
them comfortable. We rode up in the
mountains with them, gathered ferns, and
lunched under the boughs of the evergreen
trees, by the side of the beautiful cool
stream of water that sinks long before it
reaches the parched cane fields below.
	They were surprised at the number of
children compared with other places they
had visited; and judging by remarks she
made to some of our natives, she was con-
vinced that our Elders were doing all that
could be done towards carrying out the
King's motto "save and increase the na-
tion." The feeling of hatred and persecu-
tion against our people has but little space
in the hearts of the native population, only
as it is instilled into them by hireling
Priests; but the straight forward course of
our Elders has done much towards dispell-
ing prejudice. The members of the mis-
sion are all in tolerable health.
	The drouth on this side of the Island
still continues, and to add to this calamity,
the "Peluas" (an army worm,) has swept
over the face of the country and taken
every green thing near the shore, except
some of the cane which has become so
toughened by drouth that their voracious
stomachs could not digest it.
	The Relief Society held their third An-
nual Festival Meeting to-day, which was
really a credit to our native sisters; they
were all dressed in white and made a
grand appearance in the procession. They
seemed to be filled with the spirit of the
Gospel, and from their own earnings they
feasted some two hundred persons, which
is no small matter these hard times; they
have done much towards administering to
the poor and needy of this place; and not-

[Column 3]
withstanding their many imperfections
which are the effects of surrounding cir-
cumstances, my heart leads me to say,
God bless them.
	Your sister,
	J. E. MOLEN.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
			VACCINATION.

	This is a subject, that by us as a people,
is much neglected, and there is also a great
prejudice against it, perhaps not without
cause. But if some one who understands
would take an interest in it, and attend to
it in the proper way, there need be no fear
of transmitting disease from one person to
another.
	For the benefit of others I will give a
little of my experience, and if it is a means
of doing good, I shall be amply repaid for
the trouble of writing it.
	In the Spring of 1852 the small-pox
made its appearance in our neighborhood,
my husband was taken down with "Vario-
loid," and having three little children who
had not been vaccinated, we were very
much alarmed, but fortunately had a near
neighbor who was a doctor; he proposed to
inoculate one of our cows, and one of his,
(ours being light and his dark) with the
small pox virus, which he did, ours took
splendidly from which he vaccinated my-
self and three children, and a young girl
who was living with us at the time; with
the exception of one little girl, none had
more than the symptoms.
	I presume there are no cases of small
pox in the country at present, as it is a
winter disease; but we have been taught
"in time of peace prepare for war."
								E. B.


A MASSACHUSETTS HEROINE.—Visitors
to Scituate, Mass., always make it a point
to visit Miss Rebecca W. Bates. who lives
at the head of the harbor, in an old-fash-
ioned house. The elderly maiden lady,
now in her 85th year, is as active as most
people of sixty. She, with her old maid
sister of 82, distinguished herself during
the war of 1812 by driving away the Brit-
ish soldiers who had started in barges from
a man-of-war to capture the flour with
which two vessels were laden, lying at the
head of the harbor. On this memorable
day, all the men were away picking ber-
ries, or doing something of that sort, and
the British commander noticing by the aid
of his glass that there was a seeming scar-
city of men in the town, made up his mind
to capture the flour. Miss Bate's father
kept the lighthouse, and at the time she
was 19 years of age. She could play the
fife, and her sister was good at beating the
drum. Discovering the approach of the
British, Rebecca evolved a bit of Yankee
strategy. Hastening to the lighthouse, she
and her sister, concealing themselves, pro-
ceeded to play martial music at the head of
an imaginary company of recruits. The
British ceased rowing; they pricked up
their ears, the fife and drum going in the
meantime. Soon a signal from the captain
of the ship in the distance warned the
barge of danger, and, turning about, the
British returned to the ship, Miss Rebecca
W. Bates playing "Yankee Doodle," with
all the spirit of which she was possessed.
—Ex.


OF THE forty one young girls this year
at the Boston Latin School for girls, but
one failed to pass an examination.


44		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten-lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, AUG. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]
LITERATURE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.

	In the past history of this people there was
little time or opportunity to bestow careful at-
tention upon educational interests. Many pe-
culiar circumstances induced this state of af-
fairs. Everything was new, crude, hard and
severe in this land of sage-brush and saleratus;
he people were compelled to labor constantly
for their maintenance, to secure shelter, food
and raiment, day by day; consequently the
finer faculties, the intellectual and spiritual
attributes were neglected, and had not the pro-
per nourishment, or stimulus.
	The Lord has blest his people in a wonderful
manner; prosperity has crowned their untiring
and energetic efforts, and they possess now, in
a great degree, the facilities and resources
through which they may obtain and give to
their children the advantages of a liberal edu-
cation. Parents should give this subject se-
rious thought, and while they are generously
allowing their children time and educational
advantages, that they may gain correct knowl-
edge of men and things, and become instructed
in all the branches of education that will pre-
pare them to be great, good and wise men and
women, watch carefully the manner in which
they spend their precious time, and the use
they make of these excellent opportunities.
	The world is full of books, magaz[-]nes, jour-
nals and newspapers, and they are not all good.
There is more trashy, cheap literature than
that which is pure and good; and there is a
powerful influence for evil in reading, and it is
not so perceptible at the time, perhaps, as
other evil influences, because of its silent pow-
er; but it is nevertheless as dangerous and as
much to be guarded against, and in our opinion
it is more difficult to detect.
	Mothers are neglectful in this matter, no
doubt it is for want of thought; some mothers
SEEM to be under the impression that if their
children read it keeps them out of evil associa-
tion, that it is a sort of safeguard, but books
and papers are companions, and they speak di-
rect to the heart in a language of silent power,
and they produce lasting impressions, and it is
just as essential that books and reading matter
should be carefully chosen as that other com-
panionship should.
	This subject has been lorcibly brought to our
mind very recently by seeing in the hands of
young ladies, in fact seeing them purchase,
such literature (if it can be so designated) as
should be gathered together and burned.
	The expression is often made "How can we
judge of a book unless we read it?" but our
opinion is that young people should take coun-
sel of older and wiser heads, be guided by the
judgment of persons of larger experience, even
though their school education had been limit-
ed, for all learning does not come from books,

[Column 2]
and the Spirit of God is a safer guide than all
the education of the world.
	We have written these few words to call the
attention of mothers, and teachers, and those
who have an influence with young people, to
this important subject. We have heard some-
where a remark like this: "Tell me what books
you have read and I will tell you what you
know." It is not the quantity of reading, but
the quality of it that should be considered;
and in our opinion it is much more injurious
to gather into the storehouse of the brain indi-
gestible and corrupt mental food, than to take
unsuitable food into the stomach; for the stom-
ach may be easier corrected, and the effect can
scarcely be as lasting. Some will say, O, I read
so and so for pastime, it goes in at one ear and
out at another, but we doubt very much that
it does not have an evil effect. At any rate, it
is a risk to run.
	If this people want the rising generation to
be intelligent, to be superior in their attain-
ments, to distinguish themselves in knowledge
and in science, then they should take heed
what they read and how their minds are dis-
ciplined.
	Some mothers are very careful in regard to
the clothing of their children, the selecting of
material, the manner of making up, but ut-
terly regardless of the books they purchase, or
read; whereas there is really no compa[-]ison
whatever between the two. The tendency of
immoral literature, and such as inculcates false
ideas of life and happiness, is vi[-]iating and 
weakening, and cannot be too strongly spoken
against and deprecated; and unless this course
is pursued, and persons of influence protest
against this pernicious and insidious power. it
will gain strong vantage ground even among
the children of the Saints. This is an evil
that is growing in this community, and if any
check can be put upon it, any restraining in-
fluence brought to bear in favor of good read-
ing, in favor of truth, it should be done.
Through the young people's organized associa-
tions a great deal has been done to improve
the mental and spiritual condition of the
young, but there is a vast amount of work yet
remains undone, and there is much apathy
and indifference where there should be activity
and diligence. Mothers and sisters, this is a
part of your work. Wake up to your duty, for
this is one part of your mission.
			[handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	REPORTS RECEIVED and laid over for publica-
tion from Spring City, Heber City, Manti,
and Kingston. Correspondence from May-
field, Clarkston, Honeyville, Goshen, St.
Charles.

	DIED, IN the 13th Ward, S. L. City, of con-
sumption of the bowels, after an illness of
little more than two weeks, Launcelot William,
infant son of Dr. William and Ellen B Fergu-
son, M. D. Deceased was born April 27, 1878,
and was three months and eighteen days old
when he died. We condole with the parents
of this little one in their sad bereavement.
Funeral will take place at the residence of the
parents to-day, Aug. 15, at 4 o'clock.

	MISS ELIZA R. Snow and Mrs. E. Davis
have been making a tour in the Northern set-
tlements, in the interest of Relief Societies
and Young Ladies' Associations, holding meet-
ings at Mendon, Hyrum, Wellsville and other
places, stimulating and encouraging the sisters
in home industries in home education, and ex-
horting them to good works generally. It is
expected they will be in Ogden to-day, attend

[Column 2]
the Conference there, and then proceed to Por-
terville, in Morgan Co.

	THERE WILL be a two day's Conference of
Weber Co. Relief Society, commencing to day;
held in the Tabernacle at Ogden. This will be
the first Woman's Conference held for two
days. It is expected that there will be an un-
usually large gathering from adjacent towns,
and representative women from Salt Lake
City and other places will attend. Reports of
the condition of all the branches of the Relief
Society in the Weber Stake of Zion will be
read. The Young Ladies' Association will
combine with them on this occasion

	CONSIDERABLE HAS been said through our
columns on the subject of foreigners taking
out naturalization papers, so as to become citi-
zens. In Utah, where women have the "fran-
chise," it is necessary that women should be
naturalized as well as men. We would say, for
the benefit of those who may not be informed
on this subject, that if the person desiring to
become a citizen emigrated previous to 18 years
of age, and has been a resident in the United
States five years, and in the Territory of Utah
six months, then she can take out full papers at
once, by substantiating these facts with two
witnesses and being sworn to that effect. We
would urge upon the sisters who have not acted
in this matter to delay no longer; those who
have to take out two sets of papers must wait
two years after taking out the first before they
can vote; though they can take up land, but
can obtain no patent from government.

	WEDNESDAY EVENING, Aug. 7, we attended
the meeting of the Young Ladies' Association
of the 8th Ward, Mrs. Mary Leaver presiding.
We were pleased with the manner in which
the meeting was conducted. Excellent re-
marks were made by several sisters. It is
truly encouraging to hear the young sisters
speak understandingly and with eas[-], as did
Miss Agnes Pickett at that time. Mrs. Eliza-
b[-]th Thomas, President of Y L. A. of the 13th
Ward, addressed the meeting for a short time,
and said many good things to the young sis-
ters. We feel it would be well if the presi-
dents and members of Associations would visit
each other frequently, and many good ideas
might thus be interchanged, which would re-
sult in good. Too much cannot be done to
stimulate the young people in cultivating their
precious talents. Sisters, you who are older
and wiser in experience, visit the young ladies'
meetings, you will benefit them and be blest
yourselves by so doing.

	WE HAVE received "Woman's Words" for
August. It is an excellent number, containing
many notices of women and their efficient la-
bors in the cause of Suffrage, of education in
the various associations where they are per-
mitted to labor; notices of business women in
Philadelphia and Washington. It has a well-
written and comp[-]ehensive account of the
Third Decade Celebration in Rochester. On
the title page is a woodcut of Miss Frances E.
Willard, with a sketch of her life. Miss, Wil-
lard is one of the most noted women of our
time. She is a warm philanthropist, and has
been a zealous worker in the cause of Temper-
ance since Oct., 1872. "Woman's Words," al-
though only in its second volume, has attained
great popularity. The ladies who are now as-
sociated as editors are extensively known, not
only as writers, but active workers for the ad-
vancement of education and culture, as well
as equal r[-]ghts and universal suffrage. It is
certainly one of the very best papers published
by women. The language is always choice
and elegant, the whole tone of the paper intel-
lectual and elevating.


[Column 1]
	THURSDAY MORNING, Aug. 8, we started, in
company with Mrs. M. I. Horne, President of
S. L. Stake Relief Society, Mrs. E. S. Taylor,
her Counselor, and Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Presi-
dent of Fifteenth Ward Relief Society, on a
visit to North Jordan and Union Relief Socie-
ties, We arrived at North Jordan about eight
o'clock, where we were greeted by the Presi-
dent of the Society, Mrs. Eliza S. Spencer;
and other sisters, and were most warmly wel-
comed and hospitably entertained. At 10
o'clock we repaired to the New Meeting House,
a very substantial brick building; which has
been built very recently and speaks well for
the energy of the people of that district. Af-
ter the opening exercises and a few introduc-
tory remarks by the President, Mrs. Spencer,
Mrs. Horne was the first speaker; she spoke
eloquently and earnestly; her subjects were
woman's position at the present day at the
side of her husband, and referred to the proph-
ecies of Malachi concerning the work of the
latter days. She said that the Prophet Joseph
Smith, when he organized the Relief Society
in Nauvoo, recommended to them to do business
and conduct their meetings according to par-
liamentary rules. Said she believed the Lord
had accepted the sacrifices of His daughters.
She exhorted the sisters to seek knowledge
from the best books, as the Prophet Joseph
had advised, and cultivate their spiritual facul-
ties; told the sisters to read the Book of
Isaiah, where the Lord calls npon the women
of Zion. She exhorted mothers to discipline
their children in obedience, honesty, and
truthfulness. Advised the storing of grain
and the raising of white beans. Said the Gen-
tiles were watching the fulfilment of prophecy;
for already they had expressed them[-]elves as
believing that, when Lord Beaconsfield (Dis-
raeli) presided at the recent Congress at Berlin,
the prophecy of Zachariah was fulfilled, that
"ten men shall take hold, out of all languages
of the nations, even shall take hold of the
skirt of him that is a Jew," &c. Mrs. Horne
also spoke upon the growing evil of intemper-
ance.
	We were next called upon to address the
meeting, which we did briefly dwelling mostly
upon the education and cultivation of the
young people, the observance of good order,
courtesy and politeness in the home life, and
other practical matters which tend to lay the
foundation for improvement. Spoke upon in-
temperance, and that men and women should
be mutually helpful, and work harmoniously
together, otherwise they could not be success-
ful. Mrs. E. S. Taylor said she realized that
more real good had been accompli[-]h[-]d through
the organization of the sisters than could have
been done in any other way. She spoke upon
drunkenness and rowdyism; said the Saints of
God ought to be a temperate and [-]conomical
people. She said every mother's heart is inter-
ested in the training of children; she felt that
the great cause of recklessness and want of
spiritual activity among the children was not
for lack of instruction so much, as because the
principles of the Gospel had not been cor[-]ectly
carried out in the lives of the parents. Urged
the young sisters to use their influence with
the young men in the work of temperance; to
let them know they would not countenance
any evil practises, or associate with any who
were given to them; told the girls not to be de-
ceived into the idea of reform after marriage,
for that it could not be trusted.
	Bishop Bennion made a few remarks, ex-
pressing his satisfaction, and said the sisters
could not have touched upon subjects that
would have done more good. Said he was sure
great improvements could be made, if the peo-

[Column 2]
ple lived up to their duties. He spoke of the
hard work the brethren had to do there to get
water on their land, and even [-]ft[-]r they had
built the canals and dug the di[-]ches the water
was not sufficient; but there had been almost a
miracle accomplished this year in the raising
of good crop[-] of wheat, without watering and
without fencing. After very excellent remarks
from the President, Mrs. Spencer, meeting
closed with singing and prayer.
	At 2 o'clock the Young Ladies' Meeting was,
held in the same place. The first speaker was
Mrs. S. M. Kimball. She commenced by say-
ing, "What course can we pursue in life that
will produce the best results?" She felt we
had no right to abuse our bodies by overwork,
and cramp our spirits, for we would thus dwarf
our minds. She said we owe duties to society,
to each other, to the world at large, and we
could gain much by reflecting upon the sub-
jects brought up in speaking and praying.
Thought the class of reading suitable for young
mothers was the laws of life and health.	*	*
Mrs. Kimball said intelligent men are needed
to carry on the work of the last dispensation,
and such men need intelligent wives, those to
whom they can speak their best thoughts. She
alluded to the International Woman's Con-
gress in Paris, and said it was a proof that the
world was awakened to the true condition of
women. She said much could be done by both
men and women to lighten the burdens of each
other; we are in duty bound to do good. She
exhorted the young people to honor grey-hairs,
said "They'll be laid away by and by to make
room for you."
	Mrs. Prescinda Kimball said the day had
come when we must seek to be self-sustaining;
the children of Zion were naturally intelligent
and talented, they should improve their oppor-
tunities. She said, "Young ladies, honor Ce-
lestial Marriage, sustain your husbands in its
practise. Children, obey your parents, and 
walk in the path that leads to eternal lives;
there are many mansions in the kingdom of
God, let us please God and work righteousness.
Instruct your little ones, sisters, make your
homes pleasant, and let your children see your
lives correspo[-]d with your teachings."
	Mrs. Pixton said, in all her trials she had
found the truth of the Savior's words, "as thy
day so thy strength shall be." Some of the sis-
ters had better opportunities than others had.
Spoke of the rearing of children, the choosing
of a companion for life, said girls should make
it a subject of prayer. Also spoke strongly
against night excursions.
	Mrs. Horne made some brief remarks, said
we need not partake of evil because it was
around us, we want to be pure and virtuous.
"Life is real and earnest;" we have great privi-
leges. She spoke of the class of reading which
should be encouraged; said we have books and
newspapers of home production; we shonld
also become informed on the topics of the day.
	Br. Harker spoke to the mothers, and referred
them to the Book of M[-]rmon and the 2 000
children among the Lam[--]it[-]s, who feared
the Lord and worked righteousness because of
their mothers' fai[-]hfulness and prayers; he
said we cannot retrace the past, but we can be
careful in the future; let the parents do as
they promise their children, and live better
lives.
	The Bishop made some appropriate remarks,
and the meeting closed in the usual manner.
	Friday morning, August 9, at 10 o'clock, we
attended the First Annual Meeting of the Re-
lief Society at Union, S. L. Co. This was
formerly included in South Cottonwood, but is
now divided. Mrs. Elizabeth Richards, Presi-
dent, Mrs. Ann Grif[-]iths and Lucy Brady,

[Column 3]
Counselors, Mrs. M. A. Smart, Secretary, Mrs.
Lucy Brady, acting Treasurer. After the
meeting opened with singing and prayer, min-
utes of the previous meeting were read, also
the annual report, which was a good one finan-
cially. The sisters in that district have cer-
tainly been generous in contributing. Presi-
dent Horne spoke upon the blessings enjoyed
by the sisters, urged upon them the duty of
taking out naturalization paper; referred to
the blessings bestowed upon as in this once
desert land. Said we have been slumbering
and sleeping, but we must awake and seek to
save our children. Referred to the boy Samuel
being told by the angel of God to tell Eli, the
great High Priest, his sons should be cut off,
because he had not restrained them in their
wickedness.
	We were next invited to speak: referred to
woman's position now and in the past, the nec-
essity of education and culture among the
young, but more especially the spiritual educa-
without which all other advantages were fruit-
less to us as a people. Touched upon several
topics on which the sisters should inform them-
selves; mentioned the storing of grain and of
white beans, and referred the sisters to the ar-
ticle on the subject, written by suggestion of
President Brigham Young, and published Oct.
15, 1876.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said so much had been
said for woman she wanted to advocate the
cause of the brethren, but in the course of her
remarks referred to the reasons why the wom[-]n
of the world had taken it upon themselves to
represent their own cause; and said she was 
very forcibly reminded to-day of one of their
meetings, when, after they had spoken strongly
of the wrongs women had suffered, etc., some
man arose to defend the sex, but the women
cried out to him to keep his seat, they had been
listening to men for all these hundreds of years,
now they would speak for themselves. Mrs.
K. made many other pertinent remarks.
	Mrs. Prescinda M. Kimball said, this being
the fulness of all dispensations, there was much
to be done, prophecies to be fulfilled, and Tem-
ples built, the dead administered for, and we
must qualify ourselves for this work, for the
wife stands by the husband in all the work to
be done; women had now great opportunities,
etc.
	Mrs. Pixton spoke upon gl[-]a[-]ning and other
subjects.
	Bishop Ishmael Phillips then made some
most excellent remarks upon the woman ques-
tion—aid he considered it one of the greatest
questions of the day. He alluded to what had
been accomplished in the recent Convention of 
S. L. Co.; he felt these things were suggestive,
that there was a power behind these move-
ments, and they were a part of some great
work for the future. He also spoke upon the
gatheting of the Jews, the significance of the
movements made during the late war in the
East. His speech was so full of true and just
appreciation of woman's help and worth in so-
ciety, in politics, and elsewhere, that it was
moved and seconded by the President and offi-
cers of the meeting that the ladies give him a 
vote of thanks for his warm advocation of
woman's cause, which was heartily responded
to by all present.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A WOMAN has been licensed to practice
law at Raleigh, North Carolina, the first one
in that State.
	IN ANCIENT Peru when an Inca died
his wives were buried alive along with him
to serve him in the next world.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NATIONAL WOMAN SUFFRAGE AS-
SOCIATION AT ROCHESTER, N. Y.

		BUSINESS MEETING.

	Thursday forenoon, July 10, a prelimi-
nary meeting of the National Woman Suf-
frage Association was held in the Unitarian
church, North Fitzhugh street. The as-
semblage comprised quite a number of the
representative women of America, beside
a goodly gathering in the rear body of the
church, comprising several well-known
Rochester men and women. When the
meeting was called to order by the presi-
dent, Mrs. Clemence S. Lozier, M. D., of
New York, the following named ladies were
recognized among those in attendance: Lu-
cretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan
B. Anthony, Belva A. Lockwood, attorney-
at-law, Washington, Matilda Joslyn Gage,
Mrs. Dr. Arter, Mrs. C. S. Lozier, president
of the Woman's Homeopathic Medical Col-
lege of New York, Lavinia C. Dundore,
Mrs. Jarvis, Mrs. Elizabeth Oakes Smith,
Mrs. Lloyd, Mrs. Gardner, Mrs. Slocum, of
New York, Phoebe Couzins, St. Louis. Mrs.
M. W. Lois, Mrs Robinson and daughter
of Boston, Mrs. Plumb, of New York, Mrs.
Stebbens, of Detroit, Mrs. Spencer, Mrs.
Senator Sargent, and Mrs. Dr. Winslow, of
Washington, Amy Post, Sarah Pugh, of Pa.,
Lucy N. Coleman, and Dr. Amelia Ray-
mond, of Syracuse, Mrs. Fray, of Toledo,
Martha Schofield, of South Carolina, and
Mrs. Thompson, of Indiana.
	Mrs. Lozier, who presided, called the
meeting to order, and after advising that
the addresses be short and to the point, that
above all things the members keep cool,
introduced Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer, of
Washington, the chairman of the commit-
tee. 
	In giving a "resume" of the recent move-
ment in Washington during the last session
of Congress, Mrs. Spencer said:
	"The work of the National Association
in securing petitions to the 45th Congress
began Jan. 19, 1877, with an empty treasu-
ry. They were encouraged from every
section of the country, by everything else,
except money. Miss Anthony sent word
from the West, Address every postoffice in
the United States: To the friends of Wo-
man Suffrage, Care of the Post Master.
How could it be done? Her appeals to
friends of the cause at last brought the
means and two-thirds of the great pro-
gramme was carried out, but owing to finan-
cial hindrances, so late that only forty thou-
sand friends of the cause were reached.
That this was not a fair representation of
the friends of the cause was indicated by
the fact that in the State of Michigan alone,
men only voting, forty thousand votes were
cast for a woman snffrage amendment to
the State constitution. Mrs. Spencer said
that with one or two exceptions the Sena-
tors and Representatives vied with each
other in courtesy to the petitions, and
many of them improved the various occa-
sions to earnestly commend the question of
the Sixteenth Amendment to the consider-
ation of the committee and the Senate.
The reports which had been circulated to
the contrary were unfair, untrue and dis-
couraging to the patient, faithful workers
all over the land. She said Senator Wad-
leigh's hesitation and delay in making a
report on behalf of his committee was that
he could not find a respectable argument
against it, though he sought for it diligently.
As it stands, it is so altogether frivolous
and inconsistent that she asked him to or-
der a million copies printed that the friends

[Column 2]
of woman suffrage might circulate it as a
campaign document."
	After interesting and eloquent speeches
from Mrs. M. W. Thompson, of Indianapo-
lis, Mrs. Phebe Cousins, of St. Louis, Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, of New Jersey,
Mrs. Elizabeth Oakes Smith, of North Caro-
lina, Miss Anthony moved that the Presi-
dent, Mrs. Lozier, now appoint the differ-
ent Committees. The motion was sus-
tained, and Mrs. Lozier announced the
Committees: To Nominate Officers, Com-
mittee on Resolutions, Committee on Fi-
nance, Auditing Committe. Adjourned to
4 o'clock.
		AFTERNOON MEETING.
	The closeness and warmth of the atmos-
phere gave ample opportunity for the ex-
ercise of that common right and privilege,
the wielding of fans. Though this oppor-
tunity was generally improved, it might
be added that the plain yet fresh and invit-
ing appearance which the Quaker element
gave to it made the congregation appear as
cool as it was free from agitation.
	The president, Mrs. Lozier, again occu-
pied the chair, and by her the meeting was
called to order.
	Sara A. Spencer, from the nominating
committee, then read the list of officers.
	A separate vote was taken for the presi-
dent, Mrs. Stanton being unanimously
elected.
	The other officers were voted for collec-
tively.
	Mrs. Ellen Clarke Sargent, wife of the
Senator from California, then presented her
report as treasurer of the association for the
past eighteen months. The receipts from
members residing in the various States and
Territories, were read in the alphabetical
order of the States and Territories. The
report was adopted.
	After the business of the meeting had
been transacted, Susan B. Anthony made a
few remarks, alluding to the advisability
and necessity of circulating newspapers
through the country which should be ex-
ponents of the cause of woman suffrage.
She emphasized the importance of the as-
sociation having one recognized exponent
or organ, in the shape of a newspaper. As
such an exponent of woman suffrage she
warmly recommended the "National Citi-
zen and Ballot Box," edited by Matilda
Joslyn Gage, at Syracuse.—Ex.


THE MEMORIAL.

	The following memorial was presented in
Senate and House, June 15, by Senator
Terry and Speaker Randall.
	"To the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the United States in Congress as-
sembled.
	"Whereas, The acknowledged errors,
discrepancies and incompleteness of the
ninth census render it an unsatisfactory and
unreliable record of the population, wealth,
industry and physical, mental and moral
condition of the American people, and,
	"Whereas, The home and woman as a
Housekeeper have no place in the report,
only the occupations called 'gainful' being
noted, and more than twelve millions of
American women being overlooked as la-
borers, or producers, are left out in com-
mo[-] with those pursuing disreputable em-
ployments, and not even incidentally named
as in any wise affecting the causes of in-
crease or decrease of population or wealth,
and,
	"Whereas, Gross errors in enumerating
the births, ages, diseases and deaths of


children, are the inevitable result of the
natural barriers in the way of men as col-
lectors of social and vital statistics, who
frequently obtain information, in the lan-
guage of the report, from 'fathers, nurses,
servants, and unsympathetic fellow-board-
ers,' and
	"Whereas, There is obvious justice and
propriety in the employment of intelligent
women to collect vital statistics concerning
women and children; therefore,
	"We pray your Honorable body in enact-
ing a law providing for the taking of the
Tenth census to make provision for the
more careful and just enumeration of wo-
men as laborers and producers; for a record
of the wages of men and women in all oc-
cupations; for a record of causes of pauper
ism, vagrancy, vice, crime, insanity, idiocy,
blindness, deformity and disease; for the
enumeration of all men and women en-
gaged in disreputable occupations; for full
statistics concerning all reformatory insti-
tutions; and
	"We further pray that you will enact
such laws, or amendments, as may be re-
quisite to secure the employment of a fair
ratio of suitable women as collectors of the
Centennial census.
	KATE M. DAGGET, President of Associa-
tion for Advancement of Women.
	Secretary, MARY F. EASTMEN, Mass.
	Treasurer, HENRIETTE S. Y. WOLCOTT,
Mass."
	Auditors, Vice-Presidents, and Directors
number many ladies of distinction from
various states, some of the most earnest
and devoted writers and workers in all that
is elevating and calculated to benefit men
and women. We noticed the names of
Abby W. May, Sarah Andrews Spencer,
Antoinnette Brown Blackwell, Elizabeth
K. Churchill, Prof. Rachel L. Bodily.


For the EXPONENT.
			FOR MOTHERS.

	"Young ladies of the present day are not
so good as their mothers were when they
were girls."
	This and many other similar remarks are
often made by both men and women.
	Permit me to ask one question--Where
does the fault lie?  True, there are outside
influences which have their effect upon the
minds of the young, but I think that if
mothers started in time to give their daugh-
ters the training that Mormon girls should
have, that the girls of to-day would not
only be as good, but a great deal better than
the girls of any other period.
	What are you Mormon mothers thinking
of when you let day after day pass without
ever offering a word of prayer up to that
God who gave you your children, who you
say are dearer to you than your own life
(excuse me, but I sometimes doubt it), to
thank Him for all His tender mercies, and
to ask His blessings to rest upon you, to
guide you in all your labors?
	How many of you take your little ones
at bed-time, and teach them to call upon
our Heavenly Father to bless them, and to
guide them in the paths of love, truth and
virtue?
	If you do it, may God bless you in your
labors, and He will.  If you do not, can
you with a clear conscience, at any time;
call for the blessings of the Father to rest
upon you and yours?  Can you, when your
little ones are sick unto death, expect God
to spare them, as you term it?  He will in
His mercy take them from you, for they
were choice flowers entrusted to your care.


with the hopes of your leading them in
the paths of truth.
	Mothers, let the cultivation of the minds
of your daughters ever be uppermost in
your thoughts.  Let them be Mormons
through and through.  You will save them
a great deal of sorrow, and reap for your-
selves blessings of untold riches.  May the
blessings of God attend your labors.
Mayfield, July 31, 1878.              N.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿		NOTES AND NEWS.

	ONE OF the commendable features of the
Rochester Convention, (and it is one which
should stand as a precedent) was that the
entire convention rose in honor of Mrs.
Lucretia Mott, as a tribute of their high
esteem and just appreciation of one now
bending under the weight of years, whose
white hairs and beautiful smile, with her
quiet Quaker demeanor and cordial appre-
ciation of others, was a potent power in
that great assembly.
	THE "WOMAN'S Journal" of Aug. 3,
contains an article entitled "International
Manifesto." It was signed by Marie Mal-
liani, Countess Traversari. It appeals in
the strongest and most eloquent terms to
the women of Europe to send representa-
tives to the International Congress. She
alludes to the solid support this Congress
would have in distinguished scientists, il-
lustrious and meritorious authors, senators,
deputies and municipal counselors of Paris.
She says, "A man known in two worlds, a
historical personage, whose writings and
sayings have long sustained the thesis that
the inferiority of woman with regard to
civil rights is a manifest injustice, has ac-
cepted the honorary presidency. He is
ready to prove that the social reform which
he seeks for woman (the being who is civ-
illy a minor and morally a slave, as he so
well expressed it) is an object earnestly de-
sired and profoundly felt by him, and that
he is ready to break a lance in its cause,
even as he has broken so many against all
sorts of oppression; injustice egotism and
abuse of power."
	That man is Victor Hugo. The writer
appeals to Madame Maria Goegg of Gene-
va, President of the International Associa-
tion for the Defence of Woman's Rights.
She explains "the five Swiss codes which
put the Swiss women on a footing with im-
beciles, and married women below the
grade of minors, will be a spur to them."
	In another paragraph she says: Sisters—
Germans, Spaniards, Portuguese, Holland-
ers, Russians, daughters of Scandinavia
and Denmark! honor us with your pres-
ence, assist us with your councils, aid us in
your inspirations. Towards the close of
this brilliant letter she calls upon the noble
supporters of the scientific emancipation of
Woman, students of generous Zurich which
gathered together the flowers of female in-
telligence, while the narrow jealousy * *
shut the doors of English and Scotch Uni-
versities in your faces do not fail to come
and rejoice with us at the triumph of a
great philosophic idea, sustained by Maz-
zini, Stuart Mill, Lord Beaconsfield, Jacob
Bright, Fawcett, Trevalyan, Courtney,
Legouve, Emile Girardin and many others
she enumerates, of distinguished men and
women.
	MISS ABAGAIL Hadassah Smith, one of
the famous Smith sisters of Glastonbury,
Conn., who practically protested against
"taxation without representation," depart-
ed this life July 23d, eighty-two years of

[Column 2]
age. There were five sisters but none of
them ever married; Julia Eveline is the
only one  living, and she is eighty-six.
Miss Julia is a literary woman and has dis-
tinguished herself by translating the Bible
from the original Hebrew and Greek. Miss
Abby is said to have been the business
manager of the household, and her loss
will be most keenly felt by her sister Julia,
who always counseled with her on all sub-
jects of importance. The funeral was char-
acteristic of the family eccentricities. The
Hartford Post says *  * "The services at
the funeral were very simple. A gentle-
man, an old friend of the family, read a
part of the 6th chapter of St. John and the
latter part of 1st Corinthians, these chap-
ters having been read at all funerals in the
family. No prayer was made, Julia's relig-
ious views being similar to those of her
father and mother which were, that minis-
ters were of no use, and that the system
that maintains them is entirely wrong. To
pay for having the Gospel preached—to
have men fit themselves for the pulpit for
the purpose of earning their bread and
butter by it, which in the majority of cases
is  the truth, and which is simply making
merchandise of the Gospel—these things
they maintained were disastrous to all true
religion. Julia's father gave up his pulpit
after having preached five years, his con-
science not allowing him to preach any
longer. He said the whole theological sys-
tem was upheld by money, take that away
and it would fall flat. And so in accord-
ance with these original and sensible ideas,
the family have worshiped in their own
peculiar way, and kept their religion a pri-
vate, sacred affair between themselves and
God, claiming that no hireling preacher
should come between them, and their own
individual interpretation of the Gospel.
And so none of the common ceremonies
and no prayers were said, save the silent
prayers of the lone woman and those who
sympathized with her. After the chapter
was read, Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker
made some very appropriate remarks, and
the quiet sleeper was borne to her long
home."
	The sisters Julia and Abby, it is said,
were strongly attached to each other, and
Miss Julia will be very lonely, but she will
have the sympathy of a great multitude of
friends. These sisters have done much by
their persistent resistance of paying taxes
to rouse others to a sense of the injustice of
woman's being taxed and having no vote
and no voice in making the laws by which
she must be governed.


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS.

	SCIPIO, MILLARD CO., UTAH,
	August 2d, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	The Relief Society in this place was or-
ganized July 29, 1870, and was in a quiet,
humble and meek condition.  The mem-
bers endeavored to assist the poor and dis-
tressed, and also donated means to bring
our poor brethren and sisters f[-]om their 
native lands here to Zion; and have like-
wise donated liberally, considering our
means, towards the erection of the St.
George Temple.  Mrs. Sophrona Martin
had been the President from the first or-
ganization of the Society, but at our An-
nual meeting, in 1877, she resigned her
office, and Mrs. Elizabeth Yates was elected
in her stead.  The officers and members are
energetic in the discharge of their duties,

[Column 2]
and in accordance with the wishes of our
late lamented President Brigham Young,
are storing up grain for a day of famine.
Last year the President called on the sis-
ters of the Society to go into the harvest
field to gather up the golden heads of grain,
that would otherwise have been destroyed.
The sisters responded heartily to the call,
and children from four years old up to
eighty-nine went in the field to glean, and 
I think if you could have seen us you
would have thought we were in earnest;
this season we calculate to perform the 
same labor.  The sisters have purchased a 
city lot, paying one hundred dollars for it;
we have planted it with two hundred and 
fifty mulberry trees, and calculate procur-
ing more as quickly as possible.  We ex-
pect this fall to erect a good and substantial
building for the purpose of holding our
meetings in and storing away our grain.
The plan was resolved by the sisters, that
straw should be procured for the purpose of 
braiding and manufacturing men and boy's
hats; also that we would procure cloth to 
make overalls, pants and shirts.  We have
also been making quilts, knitting stockings,
crocheting tidies and lace, etc.
	Our Annual Meeting was held July 29th,
the officers were re-elected as follows:
	Elizabeth Yates, President,
	Lorinda Thompson,
	Mary Croft,
["Counselors" is typed next to "Lorinda Thompson" and "Mary Croft"]
	Mary Wasden,
	Eliza M. Wasden,
["Secretaries" is typed next to "Mary Wasden" and "Eliza M. Wasden"]
	Annie Brown, Treasurer.
	Our Society numbers one hundred and 
twenty-one.  Our Financial Report from
July 29, 1877, is as follows:
Donated to the Society..............$73 42
Disbursed to the poor................ 71 77
Have now in treasury, in quilts and 
	sundries.................................... 19 46
Grain stored amounting to......465 bu. 31 lbs.
	There are several copies of the EXPONENT
taken by the members of the Society here,
and the instructions are read with great in-
terest.  Your sisters in the Gospel, etc.,
	MARY WASDEN, Sec'y,
	ELIZA M. WASDEN, Ass't Sec'y.

	MILLVILLE, CACHE CO., Aug. 6, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I do not think Millville has ever been
represented in your paper.  Our Relief So-
ciety is in a flourishing condition; we have
lately been re-organized, with Sister L.
Hovey President; she is truly alive to her
duties, and the sisters all seem willing to
assist in doing all the good they can.  We
have not much grain stored, on account of 
grasshoppers last year, but hope to do bet-
ter this year, as the harvest is abundant.
	We meet once a month to bear testimony
to the things of the kingdom, and talk over
our affairs in general; we also have work-
ing meetings once a month, to sew for the 
sick and helpless, and make quilts, etc. for
the poor.  We have a Young Men's and a
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation.  I believe that a great deal of 
good will come of these societies.  We
have just had the pleasure of a visit from
the young Elders, J. F. Wells and M. H.
Hardy, and it was truly a feast to both old
and young.  Hoping we may ever follow
the counsel and instructions of those placed
to preside ovor us, and improve in all good
works, is the desire of your sister in the 
New and Everlasting Covenant,
	VICTORIA L. CUMMINGS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To take out Mildew:  Mix soft-soap, powder-
ed starch, half as much salt, and the juice of a
lemon. Paint both sides of the linen with the
mixture; put it out on the grass till the stain
comes out.
	Fruit Pudding: Take one bowlful of thick
cream, two eggs, a teaspoonful saleratus; mix
gently and roll it about an inch in thickness, then
spread it with fruit of whatever kind preferred,
and roll it up in a clean cloth and boil it or steam
it two hours; it may be eaten with cream and
sugar.
	Borax Used in Washing:--Quarter of a pound
of refined borax to five gallons of water; powder
the borax; dissolve it in boiling water, in the
above proportion, and use.  It is an excellent
bleacher, and may be used for the most delicate
laccs even; it also saves soap.  A little pipe-clay
dissolved in the hot water cleanses very dirty lin-
en with half the soap required without it.
	Cleaning woolen goods:  The soap-tree bark
(Quilaya saponaria) is highly recommended for
cleaning wool materials.  This article can be pro-
cured at the drug stores.  Break a piece about
two inches square into small bits, and pour over it
half a pint of boiling water; let it stand an hour
or two, then sponge the collar of a coat, or any
soiled article of wear, with the liquor; a second
sponging with clear water will clean it nicely; both
washing and rinsing water should be warm; both
blue and black materials may be cleaned thorough-
ly in this way, also hair-cloth upholstery which
has been soiled by contact with the head.


A TRADER in Boston, being asked the
character of one given to poetry, described
him as "one of those men who have roam-
ings after the indefinite, and divings after
the unfathomable, but who never pay
cash."--EX.


DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
[-]econd South Streets.

Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.



Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom	to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of [-]ome Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, lo call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
 Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner.  Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
Proprieters.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between South
and 1st Streets.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of 
women.
FRENCH HAIR STORE.
Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
 All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. [-]ash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
JOSEPHINK GREGORY,
97 Kimball Block.
Salt Lake City.


TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
73 MAIN ST., Basement of Taylor's Hotel.
P. O. BOX 1080.
LADIES VISIT
TEASDEL'S 
FOR 
Fans, Parasols, Flowers, Ribbons, Lawns
and Dress Goods, knowing they get Served the
Best and
CHEAPEST IN THE CITY.

NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER, 
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings,  Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys’ Clothing and Furnishing
Goods.  Etc., Etc.
THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
HOME MANUFACTURED GOODS
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUIIDING,
Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.	
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE’S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.
NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.
THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
Mrs.	H. E. Strickland.

ROMANIA B. PRATT, 
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards & Co’s Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-operative Store.
Residence six blocks cast of Post Office, south side of 
street.
Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and 
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

Z. C. M. I
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR

RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 308, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.
The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our
prices are pot at living rates.
We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to  C. R. SAVAGE
Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly.  Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogue and further informatiom.
CALDER & CARELESS.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt  Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
In connection with the above, Ladies’ Hair Work in
all its branches.  Good work guaranteed.
NOTICE TO ALL!
P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
