VOL. 7.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1879.		No. 24.


[For the EXPONENT.
THREE RAIN-DROPS.

	I sat at my window one morning,
		And heard the sweet splash of the rain;
	While the musings of things long-forgotten
		The musical tinkling refrain
Chimed in with my dreaming, and, haply, a thought
Embodied the lesson the rain-drops taught.

	Three crystal dew-drops were descending,
		Whispering and dancing with mirth;
	"Dear sisters," said one, "though together,
		How soon will we now reach the earth;
Sent down by cloud-mother to land or to sea,
And where, oh, where will our resting place be?"

	They sped down the wind-path, and, parting,
		Each one went a different way;
	One, sorrowing, felt her bright beauty
		Grow dim with the mud where she lay.
"Ah me," sighed the rain-drop, "and is this the last
Of all I had dreamed and hoped in the past?"

	Another fell with sweet trembling
		On the glossy green leaf of a tree.
	"You need me, bright leaf, and I'm content
		To give all my strength unto thee,
For all I asked of the future was this—
To give life to earth with my life-giving kiss."

	The last, on a velvet rose resting,
		Glistened with pride, and softly said—
	"O sweet, I am adding to beauty a charm;
		How happy am I that we're wed!"
While deeper, with shame, sank far down in the ground
The rain-drop so soiled with the home she had found,

	But earth to her bosom enfolding
		The dew, whispered, 'God knoweth all;
	And he will accept thee, though tarnished
		With filth of the street at the fall."
So; meekly content with her lot, she passed through
the changes that come to earth-moistened dew,

	When soon she came laughing and singing
		To the spring bubbling up near the hill,
	And sparkling with joy kissed the pale cups
		Of lily-bells close to the rill.
Thus; chasing her sisters with frolicsome glee;
She gains the riv[-]r and sweeps to the sea.

	When the dew-drop was sadly wishing
		Such honor had never been guessed;
	But experience had given the power
		To live for and love but the best.
Have I not felt dimmed by the mud on mo cast?
Have patience, God rules, He'll right all at last.
			ESIUS.


[Column 1]
FRIENDSHIP AND CONFIDENCE.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	When we take a retrospective view of 
our past life, and examine our relative posi-
tion to our Heavenly Father, what is it that
gives us confidence in Him? It is to know
that we have ever loved His laws, and as
far as we know them they have ever been
our delight; that we have also loved his at-
tributes and desired to imitate them; con-
sequently, virtue and goodness have been
exemplars to us, and we have practiced
them according to the light and knowledge
we possessed; that we have loved those in 
whom such were conspicuous; have set our
foot upon all that opposed these principles,
though to do so we had to wage a continual
warfare with surrounding circumstances
and surrounding spirits, both embodied and 
invisible, the warfare being generally the 
silent battle and the secret strife connected
with the working of our own soul! and 
when no eye was upon us save those of God
and angels. When we know all this has
been our experience it gives us a confi-

[Column 2]
dence towards God that nothing else can
impart with equal force! We offer up our 
prayers with a more confiding spirit, for we
have a conviction that they will be heard
and accepted. We may lose our friends,
poverty may become our portion, isolation
our present lot, calumny may assail us with
"back-wounding" stripes, misunderstand-
ing, that hydra-headed monster, may cast
its baleful influence around us, but no mat-
ter—none of these, separate or combined,
can destroy the confidence in our God which 
such a life bestows upon us; amidst it all 
we feel the light of his countenance beam-
ing upon us, we hear the whisperings of 
His Spirit in our heart, saying, "Fear not,
I am with thee; I have redeemed thee,
thou art mine!"
	Again, when we have been so fortunate
as to find a friend "after our own heart,"
when we have proved them by oft-repeated
trials, often "weighed in the balance, but
never found wanting," in our prosperity
near to us and rejoicing with us, upholding
us in the sunshine that was flooding our
pathway, watching that we became not
dazzled by it, cautioning us to be moderate
in our joys, temperate in our pleasures,
humble in our wealth, charitable in our 
riches, grateful to the bounteous Giver for
the blessings He bestowed upon us, and re-
minding us that we are but stewards, who
will have to give an account of our steward-
ship. To such an one we might confide our 
bosom secrets, with a confidence that the
grave would not be more silent. In all the 
scenes of life they would be unchanging;

		Near us when our sun doth shine,
		But nearer still when in decline.

	When wealth had made wings and fled
away, when summer friends had departed
from us, frozen up by the chilling winds of 
adversity, when our heart indeed felt heavy
with its many trials and its adverse cir-
cumstances, who remained that had waited
on our footsteps while prosperity beamed
upon us? Who stood fondly lingering by
to speak the consoling word and point us to 
a brighter day? The friend whose love
was no earth-born passion, and therefore
the things of earth had no power to affect
it—the friend that had ever had our confi-
dence! Oh, there is a divinity in the con-
dence such souls repose in each other! Such
friendship is heavenly, Godlike, and conse-
quently eternal. Are all capable of such
sentiments? I will leave an open verdict
on that query, but I know generally educa-
tion, association, and above all that prolific
source, circumstance, make us what we are,
and I know these exalted sentiments only
thrive in a cultivated heart and mind, and 
in a warm, sincere and reserved disposi-
tion, in a self-denying, self-controlling, self-
reliant spirit. These characters are the 
few, hence we find genuine friendship is 
rare, as such but rarely meet their counter-
part. But there are few whose path of life
has been so sterile as not to furnish them
with some object by which they might
form bright ideas of the truth and beauty
of a confidential friendship. I sympathize
with those who do not carry a model in 
their own bosoms, even if it be only an
ideal one; for I verily believe the ideal will
yet be realized

[Column 3]
	Let us then cultivate everything that
will promote confidence in each other. Let
us practice sincerity, and never profess one
sentiment the duplicate of which is not
in our own bosoms. Let none profess more
than they feel is truth, for it is a fearful
and most injurious thing to be deceived—it
has ruined many a character that otherwise
might have been bright and valuable, and
woe be to the deceiver, for if conscience is
not dead, no other skeleton will be needed
in the closet than such a woeful reflection.
A kiss has often sealed many a sacred com-
pact, and should not be lightly given at
any time. There should be temperance
and a "word of wisdom" in kissing, most
assuredly; this is always observable in all
high toned, refined and cultivated people;
they never kiss indiscriminately, and gen-
erally very rarely. Confidence is the very
soul of all compacts, of whatever grade or
condition. It is the spirit of love and
friendship, and friendship is love without
his wing!


THE HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHIL-
DREN.—This subject has been laid before and
received the unqualified approbation of the
authorities of the Church as an enterprise
worthy the attention and support of all
Latter-day Saints. The plan of construction,
organization and arrangements will be soon
drawn up and presented for consideration
and approval, after which the several
stakes of Zion will be solicited to take shares
in the enterprise. We trust the people
will give due consideration to the matter,
remembering that no one knows in this 
sphere of uncertainty how soon such an
institution may be a place of greatest need
and benefit to him (or her.) It will be a 
place where each settlement can look for-
ward to for instruction to students desiring
to prepare themselves to be a source of
benefit and comfort to their sisters and also
as a center where those desiring to obtain
a knowledge of the art of nursing will find
a place of instruction.
	A special meeting was called, during the 
Quarterly Conference of the sisters at Og-
den Friday evening the 9th inst. at which
time the subject was well talked up by
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. S. M. Kimball,
David M. Stuart, C. F. Middleton, coun-
selor to Pres. Peery of that stake and Dr.R.
B. Pratt whose remarks and suggestions
were especially calculated to impress her
hearers with good ideas upon this im-
portant subject. An encouraging interest
was manifested in the project and a prom-
ise of assistance with faith, prayers and 
MEANS. An awakened spirit is being
manifested in many of the settlements
upon this subject which is to be hoped will
extend to all and result in a complete suc-
cess to the undertaking.


IT is one of the proofs of the indestructi-
ble religious nature of man that it is easier
to rob him of his liberty than his conscience,
even though it be a superstitious one; easier
to despoil him of his gods than of his 
goods, though he would so often gain by
the loss; easier to enslave his body than
coerce his mind.—Henry Rogers.


240		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

		SOUTH BOUNTIFUL, April 24, 1869.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	At South Bountiful Ward, Aug. 17, 1877,
a Young Ladies' M. I. A. was organized.
There were present Mrs. Sarah Holmes,
President Relief Society Davis Stake, and
Mary S. Clarke, Counselor. Nancy A. Clarke,
President of the Y. L. M.I. A. of Davis
Stake, and also Bishop Wm. Brown and
Joseph Hoyan, Counselor Brolter, Wm. At-
kinson. Officers of Y. L. M. I. A. elected:

	Lucinda Brown, President.
	Sarah Hogan,	}
	Eliza S. Nelsen,	}	Counselors.
	Phebe Hales,	}
	Evelyn Benson,	}

	After the organization was completed
some of the sisters and brethren spoke, en-
couraging the young ladies to be faithful
and united and sustain each other. The
Association now numbers fifty-seven mem-
bers, average attendance thirty-five. We
meet semi-monthly, and a good spirit pre-
vails.
	Sister Brown resigned her position on ac-
count of moving away, and on the 4th of
April the Society was re-organized as fol-
lows:

	Eliza S. Nelsen, President,
	Sarah A. Hogan,	}
	Phebe Hales,	}
	Evelyn Benson,	} Counselors,
	Melvina Moss,	}
	Helen M. Ellis,	}
	Martha Arnold,	}

	Sarah P. Moss,	} Secretaries.
	Alice E. Nobles,	}
	Olive Jonson, Treasurer.

	Wishing success to the EXPONENT, we
remain,
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
				ELIZA S. NELSEN, Pres't.
				SARAH P. MOSS, Sec'y.

			PETTYVILLE, April 21, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We were organized into a Relief Society
Oct. 3, 1870, by Bishop Petty and Elder
J. C. Snow. The following officers were
elected unanimously:

	Jane C. Snow, President,
	Susan A. Barton,		} Counselor.
	Emeline M. Johnston,	}
	Hannah M. Henrie, Secretary,
	Almira Bunce, Treasurer.

	Two Teachers and six members enrolled.
Since then our numbers have gradually in-
creased, and we hope and trust that we
may ever be alive to our duties and respon-
sibilities that rest upon us in common with
our sisters in such a great and glorious
cause.
	Yours very respectfully,
		HANNAH M. HENRIE, Sec'y.

				FRANKLIN, Feb. 10, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We do not wish to be forgotten, and there-
fore will endeavor to give a short sketch of
our progression. Although we are back-
ward in reporting ourselves we are in a 
thriving condition. We were reorganized
last May by Sister Eliza R. Snow and E.
Davis. I think it aroused the sisters and
caused them to realize more fully their po-
sition in the kingdom of God, for we have

[Column 2]
a better attendance at meeting, and all
manifest a desire to press onward in the
work that we are engaged in. We feel
truly thankful to our beloved sisters for
their visit and good instructions; would be
pleased to see them oftener. We appreciate
their good counsel and feel to say God bless
them in their labors. Our officers are as
follows:
	Elizabeth Fox, President,
	Sophia Meechan,	} Counselors,
	Mary Hawks,	}
	Susie Parnell,	} Secretaries.
	Annie Hatch		}
	Agnes Durant, Treasurer.
	Quite a number of Teachers and the
names of fifty-two members enrolled; thirty
average attendance. Our meeting house,
that has been in contemplation so long, is
now completed with the exception of seats,
which will be finished soon. It was dedi-
cated Dec. 12, 1878. We had a supper and
ball given the evening before on the occa-
sion. Pres. Moses Thatcher and Counselor
Hammond, accompanied by Bro. Ormsby,
were present. We had a time of feasting
and rejoicing, in our prosperity not forget-
ting the poor. The brethren gave much
good instruction in regard to the poor,
storing grain, and raising our children,
which if we regard will prove a great bene-
fit to us. We hold our meetings semi-
monthly. We send our annual report end-
ing June 18, 1878.
Total receipts................................$333 63
Disbursements:
To needy........................................ 48 11
Relief House................................. 80 03
Logan Temple............................... 14 02
Total amount on hand................... 191 47
We have 100 bu. and 44 lbs. of wheat on
hand at present.
	With our estimable President at our
head we are trying to do our duty and keep
up with the spirit of the times. We are
always glad to receive your valuable paper,
and fully endorse the remarks of the sisters
contained in its pages. I remain
		Your sister in the Gospel,
				SUSIE PARNELL, Sec'y.

		MINERSVILLE, BEAVER CO.,
					April 1, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Brief report of the annual meeting of
Minersville Relief Society, held in the
Meeting House Jan. 2, 1879. We were
honored by the presence of Bishop James
McKnight and his two counselors William
Wood and Joseph Banks, Sen.; many more
of the brethren attended. After singing
and prayer, our President made some en-
couraging remarks and stated the object of
the meeting. The Bishop and his counsel-
ors instructed the sisters in the various du-
ties pertaining to Relief Societies, which
were very interesting. The Financial re-
port of the past year was read and accepted.
Account of same:
Donations from members.............$102 96
For Temple.......................................      2 00
							      ———
	Total					      104 96
			DISBURSEMENTS.

To the needy, &c.............................$102 96
To build Granary.............................  115 00
Wheat donated the past year... 27 bu., 27lb.
Amount of wheat stored.........101 bu.

		STATISTICAL REPORT.

Members................................................47
Teachers.................................................10
Meetings.................................................30

[Column 3]
Average attendance...............................19
WOMAN'S EXPONENT............................  6
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
		POLLY ANN ZABRISKIE, Pres't.
		SUSAN ROBERTS, Sec'y.

			PANGUITCH, March 12, 1879

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	In behalf of the Panguitch Ward Relief
Society, we send you the following report:
There has been donated since our last Semi-
Annual Conference (aside from anything
paid to our Relief Society house) the sum
of $62 58.
Disbursed to Manti Temple.............$26 75
Missionary..........................................  17 60
Needy..................................................    9 95

	At a recent meeting of our R. S. our
President said, although we were a little
behind the times she would like to have
an expression of the sister's feelings in re-
gard to polygamy and the opposition that
is manifested against it. It was carried
unanimously that we heartily endorse and
sustain the sentiments of our sisters in Salt
Lake and other places with regard to the
anti-polygamy movement of our enemies.
			MYRA HENRIE, Pres't.
			MARY B. HEYWOOD, Sec'y.


MRS. STANTON AND MORMON
WOMEN.
	Mrs. Stanton enquires, "Did you see in
Lucy’s paper of the 29th a correspondent
makes some strictures on the Mormon wo-
men on our platform, which Lucy does not
defend as she should? If George Q. Can-
non can sit in the Congress of the United
States without compromising that body on
the question of Polygamy, I should think
Mormon women might sit on our platform
without making us responsible for their re-
ligious faith. If, as the husband of four
wives, he can be tolerated in the Councils
of the nation and treated with respect,
surely the wives of only the fourth part of
man should be four times as worthy of ten[-]
der consideration. When the women of [-]
whole Territory are threatened with dis[--]
franchisement where should they go to
make their complaint but to the platform o[-]
the National Suffrage Association? If yo[-]
have not already rebuked the ‘Woman'[-]
Journal,’ do say this much."
	We have not rebuked the “Woman'[-]
Journal” for this and many other evidenc[--]
of the slave spirit, because we have only
pity for those women who turn and rend
their sister women working differently from
themselves. We so well know the sharp
wrongs women have endured, crushing in
many instances all their self-respect, th[-]
we do not like to rebuke them, and [-]-spe[-]
cially those who are our fellow-laoore[-]
For all slavish women a large amount[-]
pity mingles with our contempt. Whe[-]
we assumed the editorship of the "Ball[-]
box," adding to it the name of "Nation[-]
Citizen," as peculiarly significant of the d[-]
mands of the National Woman Suffrag[-]
Association that the right of suffrage shoul[--]
be secured by National law to all citizens [--]
the United Staies, thus taking the pow[--]
over the ballot out of the hands of State[-]
we issued a prospectus in accordance wi[--]
our purpose. * * *
	In accordance with this announcemen[-]
we have striven to act. There is not a wo-
man in the vilest slums and streets of New
York to whose protest against wrong the
National Association will not give heed
and the "National Citizen" espouse their 
cause.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		241


For the EXPONENT.
				BE FIRM.

	My sisters be firm! If trials we have
		Either in pleasant or stormy weather
	Let us c[-]ing to each other in union and love
		And go hand in hand together

	Oftimes we are sad when clouds appear
		Yet cheerful when days are bright,
	The Spirit of God our hearts will cheer
		And show us the truth and the light.

	If chastened in love let us kiss the r[-]d
		And face all kinds of weather,
	Be true to each other, ourselves and our God
		And walk hand in hand together.

									—M. W. W.
Salt Lake City.


GROWING OLD GRACEFULLY.

Softly, oh softly, the years have swept by thee,
	Touching thee lightly with tenderest care:
Sorrow and care did they often bring n'gh thee;
	Yet they have left thee but beauty to w[-]ar,
		Grorwing old gracefully,
			Grac[-]fu[-]ly fair.

Far from the storms that are washing the oc[-]an; 
	Nearer each day to the pl[-]a[-]ant home light;
Far from the waves that are big with commotion, 
	Under full sail and the harbor in sight!
		Growing old cheerfully,
			Cheerful and bright.

Past all the winds that were adverse and ch[-]ll[-]ng;
	Past all the islands that lured thee to rest;
Past all the currents that wooed thee unwilling,
	Far from the port of the land of the blest,
		Growing old peacefully,
			Peacefully and blest.

Never a feeling of envy or [-]orrow,
	Where the bright faces of children are seen;
Never a year from their youth wouldst thou borrow,
	T[-]ou dost remember what lieth between,
		Growing old willingly,
		Gladly, I ween!

Rich in experience that angels might covet;
	Rich in a faith which has grown with thy year[-];
Rich in a love that grew from and above it;
	Soothing thy sorrows and hushing thy fears.
		Growing old wealthily,
			Loving and dear.

[-]earts at the sound of thy coming are lightened,
	Ready and willing thy band to relieve;
Many a face at thy kind words has brightene[-],
	"It is more blessed to give than receive!"
		Growing old happily;
			Blest, we believe.
				—Christian Globe


[Column 1]
	SPRING TIME AND VIOLETS.

	The sweet breath of the young maiden
Spring is on the air, and her pathway is
strewn with flowers, rare. She has come
in all her blushing beauty, and our hearts
go out to her in cheery welcome. The
whole machinery of nature is in motion;
all that was still and drear, gloomy and dis-
mal, in its outward, aspect, warms into
vigor and life at her approach. The swal-
lows fly back to the same old places in the
eaves, the porches and balconies, where be-
foretime they reared their fledgelings,, and
twitter away as familiarly as though they
knew the places and people rejoiced to see
them again. The robin sings in his sweet-
est strain to welcome the light.footed maid-
en in her flowery garb and fresh green
mantle, as she softly glides along o'er val-
ley, hill and plain, breathing fragrance ev-
erywhere, and revivifying earth-life in all
its varied forms. Her drapery is fringed
with evergreen, and fluttering white in the
breeze and sifting round her in cloudy
mists are the apple-blossoms the very per-
fection of sweetest perfume. Violets peep
up from their lowly beds, too modest to
open wide the[-]r bright eyes, but linger in
the shade of the soft grasses, till they hea

[Column 2]
the voices of the brooklets murmuring, the
chorus of the forest birds tumultuously
trilling glad notes, and then the bright-
eyed violets whisper softly to the forget-
me-nots she approaches and the gentle
breeze faintly wafts their sweet odors, like
a messenger of welcome. Daisies and lilies
nod to each other and bend gracefully as
she passes by.
	All nature gives evidence of some great
change, some life-giving power that mor-
tals comprehend not, but name it mnst
have, and what title could be more signifi-
cant of the processes that are going forward
in earth's realms than Spring?
	Gentle maiden, thou hast been most gra-
cious in thy favors, for earlier than they
were wont the roses bud and lilacs bloom;
profusely hast thou scattered garlands of
woodland flowers and wreaths of trailing
evergreens; loyally didst thou bequeath
thy heritage of bloom in the merry May-
day festivities. And the birds, who ever
wait thy coming and watch for the first
tender leaves ere they begin to weave their
nests, are pouring forth their highest notes
not only in the orchard and meadow, but
"in the heart of the dim old woods."
	Many are the pleasures the pretty maid-
en brings and scatters round our pathway;
how joyously we welcome her fair young
face, on which the sunshine lingers long
and tenderly. No burning heat, no scorch-
ing rays, but subdued by the gentleness of
her modest manner, the sun is like a bashful
young lover who takes his cue from the
freaks and fancies of his lady-love. Beau-
teous maiden, we welcome thee to our moun-
tain home; we are better for thy coming, for
all things brighten in the sunshine of thy
smiles. We greet thee proudly! for thou
bringest us royal blessings—in thy hand is
the wand of enchantment, that clothes the 
whole [-]arth in freshness and beauty, and
opens up the fountains of water, that give life
to all animate nature. We talk to thee, and
thou answerest us in the voices of birds, and
trees, and rills, and flowers; these speak to
the heart pathetically, and impart a con-
sciousness of the inherent germ that warms
iuto being through auspicious influences,
but stinted and chilled by winter's frost
and snow lies dormant. Thou teachest us
many lessons, and thy methods are simple
and grand, and we may learn of thee if we
will, for thou art most gentle towards earth's
children. There's not a footprint thou hast
made but bears the impress of a living
power inherited from God, the genuine
stamp of Him, Who lives and moves in all
things by his infinity.
	Who does not love the Spring and the
crown of glory that she wears so regally?
Let me see, her jewels are the flowers—the
violet, it is suggestive of modesty; the
forget-me-not is memory; the rose of love;
the pansy of thoughts, be they sad or gay;
the water lily of grace; all these and many
more she brings to the laps of the fresh
young maidens who wait for her with eager
anticipation, knowing that she has been a
long journey far over the seas. Year after
year our Father sends us this sweet messen-
ger, and should we be forgetful of the ten-
der love and devotion manifested in the
harmony and order of the seasons? And
while we sew the seeds in springtime, let
us engraft into our hearts the moral lesson
of good seed sown in good ground, that
shall spring up and yield an abundant har-
vest in our hearts and the hearts of our
children, and thank the Great Creator for
the beautiful methods of instruction in wis-
dom, faith and hope vouchsafed to us
through the poetry of Springtime.
							AUNT EM.


[For the EXPONENT.
	WOMAN’S VOICE.

	After listenting to the reports of the last
General Conference, I cannot help reflecting
upon the wise providences of God with re-
gard to the Latter-day work. Who is there
among the Latter-day Saints that cannot
see the great and mighty work that eventu-
ally w[-]ll be brought about through that so
much despised principle called plural mar-
riage. How honored are the women of
the Latter-day Saints, to bear the souls of
the men and women who will build up the
kingdom of God in these last days. Not-
withstanding the power of the destroyer,
the rapid increase of children that have
been born in Zion in the last few years is a
testimony to every honest lover of truth
that “the stone the builder rejected will
become the head of the corner.”
	How careful we ought to be to train the
minds of the rising generation, to give
them a correct understanding of the duties
and obligations that will rest upon them.
Let us as mothers be alive to our responsi-
bilities, by setting them an example that is
worthy of imitation. I think our Gentile
neighbors are helping the work along a
great deal in trying to stop the practice of
plural marriage. I feel like saying, Father,
forgive them, they know not what they do.
They can never do us any harm. I believe
these things are necessary to keep us on
our guard against the hour of temptation,
and remind us of the covenants we have
made to our Heavenly Father. They can-
not realize that our spirits have been re-
served for this great Latter-day work; they
are envious toward us because they cannot,
help themselves. Our help is in the God
of Jacob; we have proved Him to be our
friend when we have been true to Him and
true to ourselves. Let us show to our ene-
mies our integrity and confidence in God
the Eternal Father, and they will hide
their faces in shame. I never trouble about
the plans and devices of the wicked against
us, for it will all recoil upon themselves,
and if they do not believe it now, if they
wait a little while then they will realize
the truth of it. Our Lord and Master said
when he was on the earth, that through
much tribulation we should enter his king-
dom. Let us as mothers in Israel never be
found, either in public or private, speaking
evil, or using any influence against the de-
signs of the Almighty, for if we do we
shall surely feel the chastening rod; and 
better it would have been for us if we had
never known for ourselves the will of God
concerning us. If we wish to receive the
reward of the faithful we must be true and
faithful ourselves; we must not stand still
and think we have done all that is required
of us, each day as long as we live in mor-
tality we will always have outside influ-
ences to contend with, until we entirely
overcome ourselves and bring our wills into
perfect sujection to the will of our Father
in Heaven. The sooner we do this the less
power our enemies will have over us. The
Lord has promised that no weapon that is
formed against us shall prosper. Sisters,
let us be thankful that our lot is cast with
the Saints of God, and let us strive to dis-
charge the duties of life honorably before
the Lord, and all will be well with us.
		SARAH LAYTON.
Kaysville, April 21, 1879.


﻿THE new Secretary for the Territory of
Utah Arthur L. Thomas arrived in this
city on the 12th inst. He took the oath of
office the following day. The oath was ad-
ministered by Judge Emerson.


42		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 15, 1879.


[Column 1]
﻿PUBLIC DEMONSTRATION.

RECEPTION GIVEN TO GEN. D. H. WELLS.

	Never has there been such a grand public
demonstration by this people as that given to
Gen. Wells on his release from the Peniten-
tiary, Tuesday, May 6. The people were in-
dignant—words are too weak to express the
feelings that were aroused in the hearts of the
Latter-day Saints by his sentence to two days'
imprisonment and $100 fine—for not betraying
that which he held more sacred than his life.
His words in the Court Room on that momen-
tous occasion will be handed down to posterity,
and his name will forever be cherished by all
who reverence and honor integrity to principle.
"It has ever been and is a principle of my life
never to betray a friend, a brother, my country,
my God or my religion."
	At a large meeting of the brethren and sis-
ters held in the Council House, Sunday, May
4, after the services in the Tabernacle, commit-
tees were appointed to arrange a programme
of the proceedings: Mayor Lit[-]le, Hon.
John Sharp, Col. Theo. McKean, Hon. Wm.
Jennings, Col. John R. Winder, Marshal A.
Burt, Geo. Crismon, Esq.

ASSISTANT COMMITTEES:

	Judge Elias Smith and Col. McKean for Salt
Lake County;
	First Presidents of Seventies, Presidents and
Counselors of the Quorums of Priests, Teachers
and Deacons;
	Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. Hannah
T. King, Mrs. Matilda M. Barratt, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard for Relief Societies;
	Messrs. Junius F. Wells, Joseph H. Felt,
George C. Lambert, John W. Taylor, R. R.
Badger, M. H. Hardy, Young Men's Improve-
ment Associations;
	Mrs. Louie Felt and Clara Conrad; for Young
Ladies' Societies;
	Messrs. George Goddard, Wm. Willis, S. L.
Evans, F. A. Mitchell, L. W. Richards, J. C.
Cutler, for the Sunday Schools;
	C. W. Penrose, John T. Caine, Miss Annie
Wells, Jos. A. West, J. C. Graham, Geo C.
Lambert, A. W. Winberg, editors and re[-]re-
sentatives of the press;
	J. C. Sanberg and Henry Reiser for the Scan
dinavian and German citizens.
	Order of p[-]ocession: Band. Pr[-]s. Taylor
and escort. Territorial, County and C[-]ty offi-
cers, Mayors and City Councils from various
places, and invited guests. Repr[-]sentatives of
the press. Salt Lake City fire bigade. Band.
Relief Societies with banners. Band. Sab-
bath Schools with banners. Band. Mutual
Improvement and Retrenchment Societies
with banners. Band. Seventies, High Priests,
Elders. Bishops and the lesser Priesthood

[Column 2]
with banners. Band. Scandinavian and Ger-
man citizens with banners. Band. General
citizens on foot and on horseback.
	The trains from the North and the South
brought a laage number of leading citizens and
people from the counties adjacent to Salt Lake
Co.
	At 9 o'clock a. m. the carriages to convey
Pres. John Taylor and escort were drawn up in
the vicinity of the President's office, and start-
ed out to receive Gen. Wells. First was the
Tenth Ward Brass Band in uniform, in a large
band-carriage drawn by four spanking gr[-]y
horses. Next came a carriage with the Com-
mittee, then a barouche drawn by four white
horses, containing Pres. John Taylor, Mayor
F. Little, Bishop Edward Hunter, Pres. Angus
M. Cannon. Next, carriages with Elders C. C.
Rich, Lorenzo Snow, F. D. Richa[-]ds, Jo[-]eph
F. Smith and Albert Carrington of the Apos-
tles. After these, carriages with the Mayors
and City Councils of this and ten other muni-
cipalities, Territorial and County officers, re-
presentatives of the press, the various quorums
of the Priesthood, Relief Societies, Young
Men's and Young Ladies' Improvement Asso-
ciations, with several bands of music and a
long train of carriages containing ladies and
gentlemen, followed by a company of horse-
men. The co[-]tege proceeded to Gen. Burton's
farm, where Gen. Wells had spent the night
after his release from imprisonment. Arriving
at Gen. Burton's, Gen. Wells was g[-]eeted by
the party in the following

EXTEMPORANEOUS SPEECH MADE BY PRESI-
DENT JOHN TAYLOR.

	President Wells: In behalf of the commu-
nity who feel outraged by the treatment you
have received, I propose to pr[-]sent to you the
confidence, the respect, the honor and the es-
teem of the people whose hearts, feelings and
affections are with you.
	We do not come here to interfere with any
matters pertaining to the action of courts; we
leave an intelligent public to act upon that
matter, and to judge according to their wisdom
and discretion. But we have come to exhibit
to you our esteem and to show you that whilst
you are true to your friends, your principles,
your country and your God, that your friends
are equally true to you. You see exhibited be-
fore you the spontaneous feeling of this vast
people who have come to meet and to honor
the man who rather than submit to betray his
friends, his country, and his God, would per-
mit himself to be deprived of liberty and be
immured in prison. We have come, General
Wells, to wipe away a stain sought to be heaped
upon you by the bigoted, unreflecting and
thoughtless, and this demonstration is the
spontaneous impulse and action of a generous,
patriotic, kind-hearted and friendly people.
For this purpose we have assembled here to-
day; and in behalf of this whole community,
I tender to you our sincere regards and our
most heartfelt sympathy."
	To which the following impromptu response
was made by

GEN. D. H. WELLS.

	"I will simply say that I should feel exceed-
ingly sorry for myself if I felt, for a single mo-
ment, that any of my friends supposed, or
could entertain the idea, that I could do other-
wise than I have done. I would be sorry for
myself to feel, or to even think for a moment,
that I could swerve from my integrity to the
covenant which I have had the privilege, yes,
the inestimable privilege, of making with my
God. I can well afford to suffer bonds, fines
and imprisonment, and even death if necessa-
ry—which by the way has no terrors for me—

[Column 3]
but to forfeit my fellowship with you, my
brethren, or a single particle of that confidence
which is reposed in me by the people of God,
through violating the sacred and holy cove-
nants we have entered into, I could not afford.
That would indeed be a source of sorrow and
regret, not only through time but for all eter-
nity.
	My treatment at the hands of the United
States officers during my imprisonment has
been civil and courte[-]us.
	I feel happy and well, and am rejoiced to
meet you, though I did not expect any such
demonstration as this. I thank you heartily;
but not, however, so much for myself as the
expression of your feelings to sustain the prin-
ciple. I knew that you are my friends, and
that you are the friends of the Most High God;
and I pray that I may ever be worthy of your
confidence and esteem, and be the friend of the
Lord. I will not detain you; but in the fulness
of my heart I say, God bless you forever; and
again thank you for this expression of your
kindness and love."

	Gen. Wells entered the carriage with Pres.
Taylor, the most spirited music was played by
the bands in attendance, and the cortege start-
ed for the city at a fast trot. On East Temple
Street were formed in order the Relief Socie-
ties, Sunday Schools, Improvement Associa-
tions, High Priests, Seventies, Elders, Bishops,
Priests, Teachers, Deacons; the City Fire Bri-
gade in uniform, Scandinavian and German
citizens besides a vast concourse of people, on
the streets,and filling the porches and balconies,
and standing on the roofs. Stores were closed
and hundreds of flags, banners, and stream-
ers, with appropriate mottoes and sentiments
fluttered in the breeze, giving enthusiasm to
the populace. It was an immense gathering;
never was there such a day in Israel. Over three
hundred carriages were in the procession, be-
sides the long line of people on foot. They pro-
ceeded to the large Tabernacle, which was soon
filled in every part with people, and many thou-
sands could not gain admittance. A magnificent
sight, never to be forgotten by those who were
present, Seven bands of music were seated in
the choir; banners, flags and mottoes were ar-
ranged around the gallery; and when Gen.
Wells appeared upon the stand the cheers were
deafening; ladies waved their handkerchiefs,
banners and streamers moving, added to the
general enthusiasm, which for a few moments
was unrestrained. After inspiring music by
the several bands, the congregation was called
to order by Pres. Taylor, and Elder F. D.
Richards offered up, in behalf of all assembled,
a most eloquent, inspiring and significant
prayer, dedicating the meeting and all assem-
bled there to the Lord. Closed by saying,
May the doings of this day be sanctified to the
good of many people; and we ascribe all honor,
praise and power to Thee O God now and for-
ever, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer.
Amen.

BRIEF SPEECH DELIVERED BY COUNSELOR D,
H. WELLS.

	My Friends, my Brethren, my Sisters and
Fellow Citizens;—I sincerely thank you for
this demonstration of your love, sympathy
and respect: probably this is a demonstration
of such a character as never was seen before.
No words can express the indignation and re-
sentment which burns within our bosoms, un-
utterable! Has it come to this that in free
America a man cannot keep his covenant with
his God, nor worship him in accordance with
the dictates of his own conscience without
suffering the penalties of bonds, fines, im-
prisonment and death? Oh tell it not in


[Column 1]
Britain, nor publish it in the streets of Rome
or Spain! Acts speak louder and are more ex-
pressive than words. Therefore, after again
thanking you, in the name of insulted freedom,
and in accordance with the dictates of wis-
dom, we will close these proceedings and re-
tire in silence to our happy and undisturbed
homes. And now may the peace of heaven
and the blessing of Israel’s God rest in rich
abundance upon you all, and upon every one
whose soul responds to the sound, the echoes
of truth and integrity, in the name of Jesus.
Amen.

PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR

Delivered an address expressing the most
kindly feelings, and lofty sentiments.
	We are not assembled here to-day for any
other purposes than those of peace. We have
no quarrel with our Government; we have no
quarrel with our Judiciary, nor with the
United States; we have no quarrel with any
people upon the face of the earth. Our mis-
sion is, “Peace on earth and good will to all’
men.” And although men have [-]ought to in-
terfere with our religious faith and to control
our consciences, it is understood by us that
God and His laws have never been palatable
to the great mass of mankind generally. And
therefore if men in the different ages have had
to endure persecutions and prosecutions for the
sake of the eternal truths of God, it is nothing
strange that we should have to partake a little
of the same thing.
	We have met here, however, to welcome our
friend and brother, President Daniel H Wells,
to our midst; to evince a feeling that exists
and permeates among the Latter-day Saints
and that dwells in their bosoms, as well as in
the bosoms of all honorable men, namely, that
of maintaining and sustaining their friends
that dare be true to God, to their country and
its institutions, to their religion and their
friends; who have the moral courage and dare
to act upon the principles of honor in the face
of narrow prejudice, proscriptions, penalties,
and the evils which even honorable men have
to meet in life, frequently, from the hands of
those whose positions ought to raise them
above the narrow limits of bigotry and in-
tolerance; and knowing what the feelings of
the Latter-day Saints were in relation to those
things, we wished them to be gathered to-
gether to evince that respect to General Wells
which, independent of his honorable position
for years in our midst, his conduct merits. We
wish to evince a disposition to sustain correct
principles under all circumstances.
* * * * * *
	Do not then, my brethren, let us have any
quarrel with these people. Our mission is
“peace on earth and good will to men.” And
if men are in error we will try our utmost to
correct them; if they are weak and ignorant
or tyrannical, we will try to bear with
them and then leave them in the hands of
God, for we can afford to wait. There is a God
that rules in the heavens. There is an old say-
ing, that “the mills of the gods grind slowly,
but that they grind exeeding fine.” We can
wait the time, the Lord’s just time in relation
to th[-]se matters, placing ourselves in His
hands. We appeal to the great God for re-
dress, and let all Israel say “amen!” (the vast
concourse of people re ponded, “amen!”) We
can afford to treat all people right whether
they can us or not.
* * * * * *
	We will not try to place ourselves in op-
position to the government, but stand shoulder
to shoulder with all true patriots and lovers of
their country and its institutions; as long as

[Column 2]
there are any to maintain .these, principles we
will be with them and on the side of right.
Amen. (Great applause.)	
	After the speeches were over there was music
by a martial band, “See the conquering hero
comes.” Col. John Sharp, of the committee,
said there had been preparations made to have
a cold lunch in the Tabernacle for invited
guests and visitors from the country. Benedic-
tion by Elder Joseph F. Smith.
	The bands were playing while the people
dispersed. About 10,000 people took part in
the procession, and 15,000 more were spectators.
	In the evening Gen. Wells was serenaded at
his home by the Tabernacle Choir and Scandi-
navian vocal club. Pres. John Taylor, Elder
Joseph F. Smith, the Committee of ladies and
other frends called upon him and participated
in the enjoyment of a pleasant social enter-
tainment with the family.
	The day was a most remarkable one, and the
memory of that day's occurrences will live in
the hearts of the Latter-day Saints to the end
of time. It is impossible to do justice to it in
the few paragraphs we are able to publish, but
it will be written of in story and in song, and
will be a theme worthy the author.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		243


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE SENATE Judiciary Committee consid-
ered the nomination of Corbin as Chief Jus-
tice for Utah Territory, and decided to report
adversely, unless the president should with-
draw the nomination.

	THE CASE of Elder G[-]orge Reynolds, in
which the Latter day Saints are so deeply in-
terested, has recently been receiving direct at-
tention from the Supreme Court of the United
States. The decision is, "And that this cause
be and the same is hereby remanded to the
said Supreme Court (Utah), with the instruc-
tions to cause the sentence of the District Court
to be set aside and a new one entered on the
verdict in all respects like that before imposed,
except so far as it requires the imprisonment
to be at hard labor."

	THE "CARTHAGE Republican" (an Illinois
paper) states that Mrs. Emma Bidamon, died
in Nauvoo on the 30th of April. Among the
Latter-day Saints, in days gone by, she was
familiarly known as "Sister Emma," wife oi
the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was consid-
ered rather a remarkable woman, possessing
great influence and unusually strong charac-
teristics, which if properly directed, as in the 
ea[-]ly days of this Church, would have made
her name illustrious in the history of the wo-
men of the Latter-day Saints down to the end
of time.

	THIS MORNING our beloved sisters Pres. E.
R. Snow and Pres. M. I. Horne start on a tour
to some of the settlements in Sanpete and Se-
vier Counties. They will meet with the Re-
lief Societies and Y. L. M. I. A in the settle-
ments upon their way, transacting such busi-
ness with these institutions as may be essential
and practicable; also organizing branches of
the Deseret Silk Association and Primary As-
sociations. They expect to reach Richfield to
attend the Stake Conference, which will be
held on the 24th and 25th of this month.

	DR. ELLIS R. Sh'pp has just returned from
a professional visit in the North, and by per-
sonal observation has become cognizant of the 
increasing need of woman physicians—women
thoroughly edu[-]ate and trained for the impor-
tant duties of attending the sick and ailing,
especially of their own sex. She desires to use
her energies in meeting this demand by giving

[Column 2]
instructions both theoretical and practical.
The course will consist of two terms, six
months each, with five lessons a week. The
first lecture will be given on the 26th inst.
Any further information can be obtained by
correspondence, or personal communication at
her residence 11th Ward, Salt Lake City.

	WE HAVE learned by letter of the sudden
death of a young lady whom we met and
formed a pleasant acquaintance with while in
Washington. Miss Minnie Nason died early
in April last of congestion of the lungs. At
noon she was bright and happy, and between
five and six o'clock she was dead; she took a
chill, and congestion of the lungs followed so
quickly she was gone in a few moments. She
was indeed a lovely girl, graceful, sensitive,
refined, and possessed that charming good na-
ture that imparted a kindly feeling to all. We
sympathize deeply with her mother, aunts and
relatives, for we know how deep the wound
must be, but we can only say to them, believe
"Our Father doeth all things well,"

	WE LEFT this city Wednesday morning,
April 30, in company with Miss E. R. Snow,
President of L. D. S. womens' organiza-
tions. We traveled through some of the
settlements North, in Utah and a part of
Idaho called Malad Valley, to visit the sisters'
societies in that vicinity. At Brigham City
Mrs. H. A. Snow, Pres. of R. S. Box Elder
Stake, her counselor S. P. Booth, Sec. Mary E.
Snow and Pres. Harriet Huntsucker joined our 
party. Together we visited several towns in
Box Elder and Oneida Counties, re-organized
two Relief Societies and organized five Primary
Ass[-]ciations. We returned to Ogden in time
to attend the Quarterly Conference of Weber
Stake held May 9th and 10th in the Ogden
Tabernacle. We were all most cordially
welcomed and hospitably entertained; the
brethren and sisters came in wagons from one
settlement to another to hear the sisters talk.
We intend to publish notes made during our
absence, but have not space in this issue.

	THIS NUMBER completes the seventh volume
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. This little paper
has now become widely known, and has en-
tered many a home where a Mormon woman
would scarcely be received at all. It is a power
in the hands of Latter-day Saint women,
which should be wielded for good. The EXPO-
NENT speaks brave words for women in encour-
aging them in the elevation of their sex. It is
also a medium through which the organizations
among the sisters are represented and thus be-
come interested in each others welfare and aid
and assist mutually in sustaining home indus-
tries, and in educating the youth of Zion in all
that pertains to practical usefulness and spirit-
ual culture. Sisters, you who appreciate your
position, you cannot afford to be without the
EXPONENT. It will silently strengthen you
mothers, sisters and daughters in your labors
of love. We have ample opportunity of know-
ing that this little paper is doing a good mis-
sionary work for Mormonism. We trust our
patrons will renew their subscriptions prompt-
ly.


FOUR ACCOMPLISHED sisters, Clara, Hilda,
Ellen and Henriette Montalba—of Spanish
blood—live in London. The youngest,
Henriette, is a charming sculptor; the other
three are successful painters,—Miss Clara,
a pupil of Isabey, being especially remark-
able for her venetian scenes. There young
ladies are friends and favorites of the Prin-
cess Louise, and Misses Hilda and Henri-
ette Montalba have crossed the ocean at her
invitation, and are now visiting her at Ri-
deau Hall.


244		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MRS. GAGE'S SPEECH AT THE WASH-
INGTON CONVENTION.

UNITED STATES RIGHTS VERSUS STATES
RIGHTS.

	Mrs. Gage said, I have never so fully felt
the responsibility of the work in which we
are engaged as at the present time. Never
had such a feeling of solemnity, such a con-
ception of the vastness of our undertaking.
To lift the burden which for ages has
weighed down one-half of humanity, to
meet the wrongs, the accumulated suffer-
ing, the injustice of the world:—to combat
the unceasing prejudice which everywhere
meets the reformer. Fain would I stop
and rest,—shut my ears to the cry of sor-
rowing souls, and rest for the remainder of
my day[-]. But I cannot. The burden of
the world's wrongs is upon me. I cannot,
though I would, shut my eyes to the sor-
rows of the crushed ones of earth. Every-
where the great problems of poverty and
vice and crime rise before me, and remem-
bering the words of the good book regard-
ing the one who grasped the handle of the
plough and looked back, I feel that shrink
from it as I may, I must still work on.
	I shall speak upon the foundation princi-
ples of our government, which, without
conceit to myself, I can say are better un-
derstood by the ladies of the National Wo-
man Suffrage Association, my associates
upon this platform, than by the statesmen
in yonder Capitol. These consist of per-
sonal, individual rights. It is a curious
anomaly in the history of the world that
the rights of property have always been
recognized before the rights of person.
The revolution had for its war-cry, "No
taxation without representation." What
our forefathers wanted was simply protec-
tion of property, and at the meeting of the 
first Congress, Washington indignantly dis-
claimed the intention of the colonists to
frame an independent government. The
English idea of rights has always been the
rights of property. Many persons are
amazed that the woman suffrage question.is
so much farther advanced in Great Britain
than in our own country, for women house-
holders, rate-payers, vote there at all muni-
cipal elections. But it is not themselves,
but property which votes. For instance, a
woman with several grown sons pays a cer-
tain rental for a house in which she lives
with these sons. She pays the rent and
she votes, but her sons not being rent-pay-
ers, do not vote. This is the action of the
law in Scotland and, I doubt not, in Eng-
land also. You see it is not the person who
votes, but the property. Our country start-
ed tnto govermental life under this idea of
property rights, and our nation is not yet
fully impregnated with its own true princi-
ples, which are the rights of person, indi-
vidual rights. I was looking through a
work issued by the International Peace So-
ciety, when I came upon a paragraph ex-
pressing surprise that although the time
was past when subjects were vassals whose
property and lives the sovereign could alike
use at his option, yet now when sovereigns
could not thus take the property of subjects
without the consent of their representatives
they could plunge the country into war to
which these subjects had not consented,
thus controlling their lives where they
could not their property. But this is ex-
plainable when we recognize the singular
fact permeating history, that property has
ever been held more sacred than person
and its rights secured before the rights of
person.

[Column 2]
	At the framing of the Constitution some
twelve years after our Declaration of In-
dependence, an effort was made on part of
certain delegates to allow States influence
in proportion to their property instead of
their population. It was argued that
States should not desire influence only in
proportion to the taxes they paid. But
this proposition was combatted by other
delegates who recognized the real princi-
ples of our government to be those of per-
sonal rights, and they argued that all per-
sons in a state of nature would have equal
right to representation at time of the first
formation of government, and that to allow
property to have greater representation
would be to make slaves of those not pos-
sessing property. So after much debate
the question was finally settled upon the
basis of personal rights; but still, such is
the influence of inherited tendencies: We
find our nation still governed, in great de-
gree, by these fancied rights of property.
We frequently hear men say, "I am will-
ing to have tax-paying women vote."
	In other words, these men are more En-
glish than Ameriean; they are more per-
meated with the rights of property than of
person.
	There is another American idea that is
not understood as it should be; this is, pro-
tection for the right of suffrage, and here
I shall endeavor to show you the principles
of the National Woman's Suffrage Associa-
tion, and their true accordance with the na-
tional idea of personal rights. What we
demand is national protection for national
citizens in the exercise of their right of vot-
ing, and this principle does not confine
itself to women, but applies equally to men.
United Stated rights is the next great ques-
tion to come before the nation. State
Rights we have heard of until we quite
thoroughly understand its demands, but it
is a singular anomaly in the carrying on of
our government that while the nation con-
trols all these minor questions of post-roads,
revenue, tariff, coinage of money, declara-
tion of peace and war, it allows the very
right of self government upon which it
stands as a nation, namely the suffrage, to
be under the control of the States.
	Experience has not yet taught the people
its danger, although the doctrine of State
Rights has been the Rock upon which the
nation has several times nearly foundered.
	Under the Confederatisn of 1778, (July 9,
1778, ratified by eight colonies,) before we
became the United States, * the doctrine of
State Rights was not primarily, a southern
one; it originated in New England, and as
far as fatherhood of this theory is concern-
ed, the North and not the South, must bear
the burden. Calhoun learned its first prin-
ciples in a northern college, that of Yale,
in Connecticut, from President Dwight,
and in a Massachusetts law office, that of
Theophilus Parsons, he was taught it in an
intensified form to take back with him to
South Carolina.
	Women interested themselves in it as
well as men. Miss Pinckney, the only
lady who ever received the honor of a pub-
lic funeral in this country, wrote so vigor-
ously in its favor that it was said the Nulli-
fication Party of South Carolina was con-
solidated by the nib of a lady's pen.
	Miss Pinckney is an illustrious example
of the power, irresponsible though it may
be, that ever has been wielded by woman
in political affairs. To her we may look
back as one of the chief instruments in
bringing about our present remarkable po-
itical complications. As the invention of-
the Cotton Gin was said to have perpetuata
ed slavery, (and its invention was due to a

[Column 3]
woman) so Miss Pinckney's powerful writ-
ings fixed the public thought in the line of
State Rights. She gathered all the fleeting
impressions brought by Calhoun from New
England, consolidated them into a harmoni-
ous whole, and the real State's Rights party
was born. It is always acknowledged that
not the originator of an idea is so truly re-
sponsible for its fatherhood as is the one
who brings it prominently before the world.
This was Miss Pinckney's position as re-
gards the State Rights question. It was
begotten in New England, born in South
Carolina, and reared to manhood by Miss
Pinckney.
	Despite all that man says, despite all the
opposition she meets, woman will play her
part in politics; it may be well, it may be
ill, but always with power. From Mercy
Otis Warren, of Massschusetts, down
through Miss Pinckney, of South Carolina,
to the latest by-play of Agnes Jenks, it is
impossible for our country—or any other—
to eliminate women from politics.
	The question comes down finally to this
one: Shall women be endowed with a re-
sponsible power, or shall she continue to
exercise her rights in an unrecognized and
irresponsible way whose results may bring
harm that responsible recognized power
cannot do?
	It is a matter of regret that women do
not thoroughly inform themselves of wo-
man's powerful influence in the past, upon
politics. At least let them recognize her
power in our own country in the past and
to-day, where we not only have a Jenks
but a "Gail Hamilton" exposing frauds, and
a western wife and daughter openly recog-
nized as obtaining through their influence
a senatorial seat for husband and father.
	But to go back. In 1782 Rhode Island re-
fused compliance with the recommenda-
tion of congress for a tariff dnty on imports
and prize goods, and through the speaker,
Hon. Wm. Bradford, of the Lower House
of Assembly of that State, made their ob-
jections known to congress, under three
heads, which it is not necessary to present
here.
	This action of Rhode Island led to pro-
longed debate and finally to a recommenda-
tion from congress that the States should
invest that body with greater power for
collecting revenue and prosecuting the
war, than it then possessed. So permeated
was the confederacy with the idea of colo-
nial supremacy—remember that although
this was two years after the Declaration
of Independence the union was only a con-
federation of the colonies, not yet having
grown to either the stature of States or of a 
constitutional government—so thoroughly
was this separated sovereignty idea a part
of the confederate idea, that the proposition
to invest congress with greater power was
only agreed to by four of the thirteen ccu-
federate colonies, and yet it was an ob-
viously necessary suggestion provided the
union, such as it was, was to be preserved.
	This non-compliance with what was need-
ed to establish and confirm the nation
again led to active debate. From revenue,
public debt, and the security of property
rights, the debate took wider range, and
the controversy soon based itself upon the
security of personal rights. Then were ut-
tered these memorable words "that it had
ever been the pride and boast of America
that the rights for which she contended
were the rights of human nature" and "that
the citizens of the United States were re-
sponsible for the greatest trust ever confid-
ed to a political society," and that it was
for the people of the United States, by
whose will, and for whose benefit, the Fed-


[Column 1]

eral Government was instituted, to decide
whether they would support their rank as
a nation.
	My own State of New York was the first
to acknowledge the necessity of stronger
power in the national hands. In July, 1782,
the Legislature of this State in a series of
nine concurrent resolutions, pointed out
the defects of the Confederacy, or State
Rights system, and proposed a general con-
vention of the United Colonies for the pur-
pose of amending the form of government.
	Thus, barely two years had elapsed be-
fore the actual necessities of the new-form-
ed republic proved the need of stronger
power in the hands of the general govern-
ment. The subject. however, passed, and
not until 1786, upon a resolution of the
House of Delegates of Virginia, appointing
commissioners to meet with commission-
ers from such other States as might appoint
them, did this very vital question press
itself upon the people with sufficient force
for action.
	In September, 1786, duly appointed com-
missioners from New York, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware and Virginia, two
of them Southern and three of them slave
states, met to discuss this now most impor-
tant question. The delegates from these
five states proposed a general convention
of the states to meet in Philadelphia. which
convention framed our National Constitu-
tion.
	Rhode Island, as she was the first state
to exhibit state-right tendencies, was the
last state to ratify the constitution, which
was to take from her all power to question
the right of the United States to lay a duty
upon imported goods. But at various
times and for various pretences, since that
memorable refusal of Rhode Island in 1778,
to be bound by national authority, down to
the present hour, has this conflict between
state and national authority risen. Not
alone to-day, in regard to any supposed
election frauds or intimidation in South
Carolina or Louisana in regard to the
voting of black men, but up in Wyoming,
a territory which nine years ago secured to
women the right of voting, is there a
conflict between state and national power.
I shall not go back to the civil war which
you so well know, but I can be permitted
to refer to some of its results, as it is a sub-
ject of discussion in congress.
	Senator Blaine's recent speech struck the
key-note of Republican policy--mind you,
I say policy, not principle, as far as the
black male citizen is concerned.
	I must be allowed to review Mr. Blaine's
speech. Mr. Blaine is not only the Repub-
lican Senatorial mouth-piece, as far as the
south is concerned, but he is also consid-
ered a presidential candidate for 1880, and
as such, is supposed to stand at the very
foundation stones of the Republican party.
	He declares the issue is not one of mere
sentiment for the rights of the negro, but
one of more portentous magnitude, and that
is, whether the white voter of the North
shall be equal to the white voter of the
South in shaping the policy and fixing the
doctrines of the country.
	There are two curious features to us wo-
men which rise in looking at this speech of-
Senator Blaine. First, we remember his
going through the country in 1872, declar-
ing that the 14th amendment secured the
rights of all citizens to the ballot. He did
not qualify his assertion either by the
words "white" or "male." He simply said
the rights of all citizens were thus secured
by this amendment.
	I came to Washington that following
winter and with the remembrance of this

[Column 2]

speech recently delivered in my own city
of Syracuse, I sought an interview with
Mr. Blaine. I said to him, "Mr. Blaine,
inasmuch as the 14th amendment declares
all persons born or naturalized in the Uni-
ted States to be citizens of the United
States, and inasmuch as the women of the
United States were either born here or have
been naturalized here, they are necessarily
citizens of the United States. You admit
that. Very well, then, in your Syracuse
speech you declared the 14th amendment
secured the right of suffrage to all citizens;
now why are you not consistent? Why do
you not uphold the voting right of women
citizens by a speech in congress?"
	I need not say to you Washington people
what politicians are, for you all know how
easily they dodge a leading question, and
Mr. Blaine dodged my question in a very
peculiar way for he invited me to his house
to see Miss Dodge, otherwise known as
Gail Hamilton. [Laughter and applause.]
So, of course, you may rest assured I
read Mr. Blaine's speech of December 10th,
with an appreciative eye.
	Now while Mr. Blaine was so emphati-
cally pointing out the intimidation of the
black United States citizens of the South
by State Rights men, he forgot to mention
how the United States itself was at that
moment and for years had been oppressing
certain of its own white citizens of the
North.
	He forgot to say that the United States
is inconsistent with itself.
	Although, theoretically, the power over
the suffrage is held to be in the hands of
the States alone, yet practically, the United
States has endowed whatever class it pleas-
ed with the suffrage. Chief Justice Waite
in his decision in the Minor vs. Happersatt
case, against woman's right to vote under
the Fourteenth Amendment, declared the
United States had no voters. But this as-
sertion was false upon the very face of it.
	First, every enfranchised male slave had
the ballot secured him under United States
law, a law which overrode all state provi-
sions against color. At time of ratification
of the last amendments, the State of New
York possessed a color property qualifica-
tion of two hundred and fifty dollars. The
moment these amendments were ratified,
that law became dead on the statute book.
The New York Legislature did not repeal
it. The United States repealed this prop-
erty prohibition, by creating a class of
United States voters out of colored men.
So here is one class of United States voters,
and a clear mistake on the part of Judge
Waite.
	Second, every Southern man disfranchised
because of having taken part in the war,
and who has since been granted amnesty,
has again been made a voter through United
States law; all such men then become
United States voters. Here is a second
class of United States voters, and a second
mistake of Chief Justice Waite.
	Third, the naturalized foreigner secures
his right to vote under United States law,
and cannot vote unless he first becomes a
United States citizen, or announces his in-
tention of so becoming. In Missouri, Ne-
braska, and some other States, the declara-
tion of such intention permits him to vote.
This is a State regulation, but the fact of
his United States citizenship must in some
form first exist. In the naturalized man is
a third class of United States voters. With
one and the same hand he at the same mo-
ment picks up his naturalization papers and
his ballot. It matters not what the state
law may be, the foreigner secures his vote
under United States law. And here is a

[Column 3]

third class of United States voters and a
third mistake of Chief Justice Waite.
	Fourth, the 39th or 40th Congress took a
step farther than this, passing a law that
all foreigners who had served in and been
honorably discharged from the army, should
possess the right to vote, even though they
had not previously filed intention of natur-
alization. Thus at the time of Judge
Waite's decision we already had four classes
of United States voters; the black man, the
amnestied man, the naturalized man, and
the foreigner who fought in the union
army. So you see we already possess four
distinct classes of United States voters, and
when woman demands that her right to the
use of the ballot shall be secured by United
States law, she has four distinguished
precedents, and so far as it has gone, the
United States has exercised its rightful
power. We ask that it should be consistent
with itself and secure the ballot to women.
	While theoretically denying its control
over the suffrage, the United States in
many ways besides those mentioned, prac-
tically acknowledges its possession of this
right.
	In Miss Anthony's case. She was not
prosecuted by the State of New York for
voting. That great State took no action at
all in the matter, it was the general govern-
ment which thrust itself forward and took
up the question. If the United States has
no control over the suffrage, then Miss An-
thony's trial was a clear interference of the
United States with the right of states.
And so great was this interference, it is be-
lieved a judge was especially appointed to
try her case, who left Washington with his
verdict in his pocket already written. Let
none of my audience forget this trial, for in
the future it will be looked upon as one of
the great State Trials of the world, for as
we have shown, if states have the sole con-
trol of the suffrage, there was interference
in the rights of the State of New York by
her trial; and if United States citizens of
any class have a right to be protected in the
use of the ballot, then the United States
very flagrantly and tyrannously interfered
in Miss Anthony's individual right as a
citizen of the United States.
	Then let us look at the Territory of Wyo-
ming. Much has of late been said in regard
to woman not making use of the ballot
there. I am not careful to answer that
statement. I care little about it one way or
the other, as long as her right to vote is
not interfered with. It will be time to re-
quire all women to vote when we have such
law for men; until then let each voter re-
irain from voting at his or her own option;
it is not the vital question. But there is a
point connected with woman's voting in
Wyoming that is well worthy of our con-
sideration. That is, the interference of the
United States with the concomitants of this
right. For a time the women of Wyoming
sat upon juries, and the fact was heralded
over the country that thieves, gamblers,
murderers fled the country rather than fall
into the hands of these women jurors. The
first conviction for a murder in that Terri-
tory, not committed in self-defense came
from a woman jury.
	But of late we have ceased hearing of
women jurors. And why?  Because wo-
man's sacred jury right has been interfered
with by the United States.
	The Marshal of the Territory, an officer
appointed by the United States govern-
ment, has absolutely refused to place the
names of women on the jury lists. Conse-
quently the women of Wyoming are denied
the exercise of this right by United States
power.


Whether the Marshal has been ordered to
omit the names of women, as Judge Hunt
was ordered to convict in Miss Anthony's
case, we do not know and it does not signi-
fy. The duty of the United States is none
the less clear; the territories are in an es-
pecial way the wards of the nation, and
should be protected in all territorial rights.
The Territory of Wyoming having secured
to women the exercise of their right of 
voting, it remains the duty of the general
government to protect them in the exercise
of concomitant rights, of which the jury is
one.
	This deprivation of woman's jury rights
in Wyoming is not only an United States in-
terference with her political rights, but also
an interference with her industrial rights.
It is a well-known fact that some women
earned their first independent dollar by sit-
ting in the jury box. And whatever inter-
feres with woman's industrial rights helps
to force her down, down, down, to those
depths where want of bread has forced so
many women into the gutters of shame.
This is a question of morals as well as a
question of industrial and political rights.
Every adverse touch upon a person's politi-
cal rights touches a hundred other rights
adversely.

To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		245


246		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	Died on the 5th of April 1879. Mrs. Amanda
Susanna Chamberlain, wife of John A. Cham-
berlain. Deceased was the daughter of Wm. and
M. A. E. Watmough, the latter a lady well
known in this community; was born in Wi-
gan, Lancashire, May 18, 1844, and, her moth-
er being a Latter-day Saint, was baptized and
confirmed when eight years old, by Bishop
Cairns.
	She moved with her parents to Boston in
1856; remained there for six years, and gradu-
ated with honors from the Welles School. In
the June of 1862 she came to Utah and was
married on the 29th of December, 1864. They
resided in Cedar Fort, Utah County, ten years
and then moved to a remote district about ten
miles from Deseret, on the Sevier. She was a 
faithful Saint, a true wife and mother, and 
leaves a husband and three little children to
mourn her loss.


HINTS FOR YOUNG MOTHERS.

	The three requisites for babies are plenty of
sleep, plenty of food, plenty of flannel. The say-
ing that man is a bundle of habits is as true of
babies as it is of grown children. If the infant
is accustomed from its birth to sleep from six
o'clock at night till daylight, the habit of carly
sleep will be formed, and the mother may have
all the evenings to herself.
	If the baby sleeps all night, a long morning
nap will naturally come about dinner-time, after
which the child, except when very young, should
be kept awake until six o'clock. Preseverance
in this routine will soon result in securing quiet
evenings for both the child and the parent.
	Some mothers have a long season every morn-
ing and every night in getting the baby asleep.
They rock them and sing to them till Morpheus
enfolds them. With most children this is entirely
unnecessary. An infant can be accustomed, by
a few days' training, to go to sleep itself for a
morning nap as well as for a longer rest at night.
	A mother has duties to herself as well as to her
offspring. While she should exercise a constant
care in securing its utmost physical comfort, she
should secure rest and recreation for herself. In
no other way can she keep fresh in feeling and


buoyant in spirit. Nothing is so wearing as the
unceasing tending of a fretful baby.
	Every means should be employed to aid the
child in taking care of itself and giving as little
trouble as possible. It may learn in babyhood to
amuse itself with toys or by watching movements
going on around it.
	Fashion as well as good sense requires infants'
dresses to be made with long sleeves, and high
in the neck. Fashion requires children of all ages
to be warmly clad. Flannel should encase the
whole body, with the exception of the head and
hands. The fruitful cause of colic in infants is
the nakedness of their necks and arms.
	Regularity in feeding is as important as either
of the other requisites. Babies cry as often from
being fed too frequently as from hunger. Let the
mother obey the dictates of common sense in this
matter and not force food into a baby's stomach
for every little complaint it makes.
	Children of three or four years old need much
more sleep than they usually have. For irritable
and nervous children sleep it is a specific, and it
can be secured to them only by the force of habit.
Many light forms of disease may be cured by
keeping a child in a uniform temperature and in
quiet. Let the young mothers who read this
article experiment upon these few suggestions,
and we are sure they will have many an hour in
the nursery for reading and thought.—Ex.


NEITHER days nor lives can be made
holy by doing nothing in them. The best
prayer at the beginning of a day is, that we
may not lose its moments; and the best
grace before meat is, the consciousness that
we have justly earned our dinner.—Ruskin.


[Column 1]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence—11th Ward.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

NEW SPRING GOODS
ARRIVING DAILY,
IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES
Ladies' Bows in Silk and Lace. Ties a large
	variety. Collars, Cuffs and Ribbons, an ex-
	cellent variety. New Style. Dress Goods.
	And in fact everything you want in general
	merchandise. Conference visitors, call at
TEASDEL'S

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap,	-	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc)	-	-	- 35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	-	- 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

[Column 2]
﻿Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale, and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL, IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW SPRING STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

MULBERRY TREES.
FOR SALE at the Forest Farm, from Three cents each
and upwards.
☞ Please forward all orders to
MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
Salt	Lake City.
Orders by mail or otherwise are promptly attended to.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, io call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
							JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.					97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake :City

