VOL. 7.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUG. 1, 1878. 			No. 5.﻿


For the EXPONENT.
THE GATES OF LIFE ARE OPENING.

Come thou with me, my daughter dear,
Out from these walls upbuilt by hands;
They hide, they hush, from eye and ear,
The changing pictures of the sky,
And the still voice that cometh near.

Beneath this leafy canopy,
Lighted by rising moon and star,
Stand thou, my daughter dear, with me,
And listen to the echo thrown
By all the world, anear, afar,
Though on the land, or on the sea.

What is the echo thou dost hear
In the pure silence of thy heart?
Nay, tremble not, my daughter dear,
'Tis but the answer to His call;
'Tis the farewell of those who part,
Of they, who saddest, linger here.

I hear it in the city's streets,
Below the city's mingled sounds;
And deeper, when the city sleeps,
The sleepless mourner's piteous cries,
Unhushed, relieve the heart's deep wounds,
In misery's dim, lone retreats.

Where goest thou, dear friend? Alas!
Thy heart is glad, thy hope is high;
Thou hurryest so quickly past,
Thou seest never, before, beyond,
How the dark tide of death flows nigh,
How it riseth, cruel and fast.

The dying maiden speaketh low
Where lover, weeping, bends his head:
Farewell, beloved! I loved thee so;
Forget me not, that we may keep
These vows of earth so vainly said,
And an immortal bridal know.

The stricken mother mourning bends:
Where her beloved unanswering lies;
All vain the love of fondest friends,
To soothe the heart's deep agony,
While memory's blessed visions rise,
And love's sweet labor hath its end.

The mother saith in tears, I go;
And sweet but for the thought of thee,
The rest in death, the weary know.
But ah! whose loving care shall lead
These little ones aright, for me?
Ah, let me stay! Death answers, No.

They are wending all the same, same way;
Behold! afar o'er all the earth
The nations don their last array;
Listen! the mournful requiems rise
Up from the nations' vacant hearths,
And the wrath of God still points the way.

Listen thou! O my daughter dear!
The roll of drums, the clash of swords,
These sounds of weeping in thine ear,
Change from sad farewells to all hail!
Behold the coming of the Lord,
Behold the reign of peace draws near.

Listen! thrones, kingdoms tottering,
And earth and sea all tremulous,
With thunderous voices, echoing,
Leaping to praise their Maker's name;
In speech majestic tell to us,
That this is Death's awakening.

Beloved, 'tis not the close of life,
Listen! these farewell cries shall change
To worship anthems; for all strife
Shall have an end; and at the cry
All flesh, shall at the summons strange,
Fainting, awake to deathless life.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
S. L. City, July 23, 1878.


Correspondents who use fictitious signa-
tures must send us their real names and
address, otherwise we cannot publish the
communications.


A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

	To those who may read this simple his-
tory of the private life of an individual, I
would say before entering upon any details,
or portraying incidents, can you understand,
my kind readers, what it is to be truly;
emphatically and undeniably old?
 To have the whole land cape of your past
life spread out to view; to trace in and out,
through the weary winding ways,
watch where the shadows fell and darkened;
to catch sometimes the dawn of unbroken
light, to rest after all, to feel you have be-
come unequal to the contest of life's strug-
gles, save as faith sustains you; to wait pa-
tiently, with a strong and ever growing
trust and perfect security, relying upon
the promises of Him "Who sees not as
we see."
To feel you have acquired a little insight
into the purposes of God in your creation;
with a firm hope and an unswerving faith
in the recompense of a fulness of glory
through obedience, more complete than
any earthly power can give; to rest con-
tented, waiting His time?  Can you realize
that these things are worth living for,
worth suffering for?  Can any sacrifice be
too great through which we are called to
pass, if we would follow in our Master's
footprints.
	In looking back over the years that are
past, and recalling vividly the incidents of
my earliest days, tracing the dim outlines
of the years now vanished, ere the powers
of life are too enfeebled, I feel attracted to
sit down and delineate some of its most in-
tricate mysteries, without any effort to
embody myself as a heroine, but clearly to
give a concise account of my unpretentious
life; beginning with its morning, repre-
senting myself truthfully, as I have lived,
through three quarters of a century, hav-
ing seen many of my cotemporaries and
some of my dearest friends pass out of
sight. In looking back, if there are any
principles which have given me strength,
and by which I have learned to live more
truly a life of usefulness, it seems to me I
could wish to impart this joy and strength
to others; to tell them what the Gospel has
been and is to me, ever since I embraced
it and learned to live by its laws.  A fresh
revelation of the Spirit day by day, an un
veiling of mysteries which before were
dark, deep, unexplained and incomprehen-
sible; a most implicit faith in a divine
power, in infinite truth emanating from
God the Father, the fountain from which
we must never depart into labyrinths of
our own, or other's seeking, if we mean to
conquer as individuals.
Our own little histories are replete with
this occasional darkness, which has been
left unexplained, through misunderstand
ings, discord and wrongs unrighted, and 
which we learn to endure through much
forbearance and forgiveness of injuries.
Human character is not immutable, but
capable of perfecting to an infinite growth;
do we not need, in such a world, faith in
God - a hope for man that has its founda-
tion in the principles of eternal truth?
(To be continued.)


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS, M. B. C. Slade, Fall River, Mass.
edits a monthly magazine, entitled "Good
Words."

	THE ECLIPSE of the sun by the moon.
Monday, July 29, was visible in this city
through smoked glass, or by reflection in
a looking-glass, from 40 minutes past 1
o'clock, p. m., for about one hour and three
quarters. The color of the sky was of the
darkest blue, and the sunlight golden and
mellow; the shadows resting beautifully,
like fairy work, wherever they fell. The
effect was almost like enchantment. The
peculiarity of the shades of light and shad-
ow on the mountain[-] Southeast of the city
was charming. The scene altogether was
most interesting.

	THE THIRD Decade Celebration of the
first Woman's Rights Convention, convened
in Rochester, pursuant to call, July 19.
It was held in the same church (Unita-
rian), which opened its doors to the
first Convention, in 1848. Amy Post, a
member of that first Convention, and who
is still living in Rochester, in connection
with Miss Anthony, had charge of the
arrangements. Friends from abroad were
entertained free of expense. By letter
from Miss Anthony we learn that the An-
niversary was most interesting. Many
veteran workers were present. As she
has mailed us copies of the Rochester pa-
pers, containing a full account of the pro-
ceedings, we will publish particulars in
our next issue.

	MRS. SARA J. Andrews Spencer of Wash-
inton, has entered into an editorial partner-
ship with Mrs. Juan Lewis, editor of "Wo-
man's Words," Philadelphia, Pa. The first
number, containing "Salutatory from the
pen of Mrs. Spencer, was issued July 1,
and contains a precise account of the argu-
ments and committee's report on the Six-
teenth Amendment Bill, which is very in-
teresting. During the next session of Con-
gress "Woman's Words" will be issued in
Washington, and will contain all that is
noticeable of the work done on the woman
question by that Honorable Body, and the
ladies who labor there in the interest of
their sex. These lady editors are women of
fine talent, excellent capabilities, and occu-
py enviable positions in society in the
world. They are laboring indefatigably to
aid and assist women in attaining a greater
degree of independence. The journal is
very neat in its appearance, and contains
much personal information of women en-
gaged in all the different pursuits of life.
On the front of each number there is a
woodcut of some noted lady, with a short
sketch of her life, which adds very much
to the merit of the journal as a source of
information; for in this way are we enabled
to preserve, with little expense, something
of the history of those who are truly
worthy.


CENSURE is the tax a man pays to the
public for being eminent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I expect you have never heard of Hold-
en Relief Society, or if you have it has
not been through any proper channel. I
thought it would be a good plan to try and
represent ourselves in a small degree. I
hope you may find some excuse for our
long silence, for I have none to make, but I
feel to begin now; the old adage "better
late than never" will apply to us very well.
	Our Society has not been dead, although
not represented; we have done considerable
in our way, such as relieving the poor,
when and where it has come to our knowl-
edge that such relief was needed, and also
in helping to build Temples and ga	ther the
poor from the nations as far as we have had
means to do so. The sisters all seem to
feel well, and almost without exception de-
sire to do their duty. We feel that the
Lord has blessed and prospered us in our
undertakings. We have a house in pro-
gress of erection, that will be an honor to
our Society when completed. We also
have a small Society Store in operation; it
has been running a little over one year; it
was started under Bro. Callister's counsel,
and so far it has proved a success. We are
also trying to obey President Young's coun-
sel to lay up wheat, but as this is not a
grain raising district we have our wheat to
buy, consequently the work goes on slowly,
yet we feel determined to do all we can in
this direction.
	We hold our working meetings twice a
month and our Sunday meetings once a
month. They are generally well attended,
and a good spirit prevails among us. Our
President and her Counselors are active and
energetic in the performance of their duty.	Hoping that we may be more punctual in
the future in reporting ourselves and in do-
ing all the duties that are required of us,
we pray that the blessing of God may rest
upon all the Relief Societies in these moun-
tains. We remain your sisters in the Gospel
of peace.
		FANNY N. JOHNSON, Counselor,
		JOANNA C. TEEPLES, Treasurer.

		LAKE TOWN, RICH Co., UTAH,
						July 4, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT.

	"Procrastination is the thief of time,"—
so wrote one before me, and I can endorse
its truth; I ought to have represented our
Society to you before now. We were or-
ganized into a Relief Society Feb. 6, 1877.
We have a General Meeting the first Mon-
day in every month, a Teacher's Meeting
on the last Monday, and a Sewing Meeting
every alternate Thursday.
	The Saints here are not overburdened
with this world's goods, nothwithstanding
we feel it a substantial good to have a Re-
lief Society, for besides developing latent
good in the sisters and storing their minds
and memories, it is a help to our Bishop,
in relieving him of the care of the aged,
and sick, and poor. We have made a very
small beginning in storing grain. Bro.
Weston kindly offered us a bin in his gran-
ary, and we shall try to fill it.
	This is a very lovely place, everything
looks green and bright, and the lake, spread-
ing out northward as far as the eye can reach,
gives it character and beauty. I regret to
say the grasshoppers have been very busy
here in times past, and are even now show-
ing their appreciation for our tender lettuce,
&c. The frosts are not as severe here as

[Column 2]
formerly, and we hope to see the day when
we shall raise lots of fruit. We have now
plenty of gooseberries, currants, strawber-
ries, &c.
	A few years ago there were very few
young girls here, now there are quite a
number. We should be very glad to see a
Y. L. M. I. A. established among them;
they are good girls, and should have every
advantage calculated to benefit and improve
them.
	I am very respectfully yours,
			E. L. CROWTHER, Secretary.

	FAIRVIEW, SANPETE Co., July 15, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We hold our meetings once in two weeks,
and a spirit of union prevails. On the 24th
of June Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs. Zina D.
Young of your city, Mrs. M. A. Hyde of
Spring City, and Mrs. Amelia Goldsborough
of Nephi, paid us a visit and held meeting.
The Spirit of God was poured out upon
them, and we had truly a time of rejoicing
in listening to the good counsel that flowed
from their lips. They were indeed wel-
come visitors, and we hope their first visit
will not be their last.
	Our financial condition is as follows:
Disbursements, To Manti Temple.........$50. 00
To Meeting House...................................  10. 50
To The Poor..............................................  17. 50
To Welsh Emigration...............................    7. 75
								      ———
		Total					       85. 75
Cash on hand...........................................  12. 80
We have stored for Zion 225 bu. of wheat.
We hold receipts for capital stock in Co-op
Tannery, $10. In Co-op Store, $197. 97.
In book entitled "Women of Mormondom,"
$25. We have also some socks and quilts
on hand.
	Wishing you all success in the good work
you have begun, and may God bless all His
faithful Saints, is the earnest wish of your
sisters in the Gospel.
	TELITHA AVERY,		}	Secretaries.
	LOIS ANN WILSON,	}

			LOGAN CITY, July 9th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	At our last annual meeting held June 5th,
the officers were re-elected. Elzabeth Ben-
son, President, Louisa B. Benson, and Lucy
Cardon, Counselors; also a President and
Counselors for each of the five Wards; un-
til now, there has been but little if any
change in the officers in the past four years.
Our meeting was attended by most of the
Bishops of Logan, who gave us good in-
structions.
	The report of the financial condition of
the Society was read, showing disburse-
ments to the poor for the past year, $142,65;
to Logan Tabernacle $143,35; to Logan
Temple, $63,95; cash on hand $101,55;
merchandise on hand, $107,65; share in Z.
C. M. I., $130. We have also one hundred
and fifty bushels of wheat. We hold gen-
eral meetings once a month, and meet in
each ward for working twice a month.
There are a number of sisters who take a
lively interest in the work, attending their
monthly and working meetings regularly.
	The EXPONENT is received in each
ward and read with pleasure.
			KENNIE BALLIF, Sec'y.

			GRANITE, SALT LAKE CO.

EDITOR EXPONENT.

	The second Quarterly Report for the year
1878. We meet once in each month and

[Column 3]
proceed with our meeting in the usual
manner. All who attend meetings seem to
take a lively interest in them, and express
a determination to do all they can for the
advancement of this great work. Very
few take the EXPONENT, but they are de-
termined to subscribe for it, as it is a good
enterprize. We had an excellent treat on
the 19th. Sisters Horne and Heywood
were out here, and gave us some very good
counsel and instructions, as they always
do.
	The donations and disbursements for the
Quarter were as follows:
Received in Merchandize.......................$11. 20
	"	" Cash........................................    4. 35
								     ———
	Total						      15. 55
Disbursed in merchandise to poor.......    6. 30
Paid on quilt in Merchandise.................    1. 00
Disbursed in Cash to poor.....................       . 75
								      ———
	Total disbursed					 8. 05
Amount of this Quarter's donations
[-] on hand in cash and merchandize	 7. 50
Amount of last Quarter's donations
	on hand in cash and merchandize    3. 70
								      ———
		Total amount in Treasury	       11. 20

	Hoping this Report will be satisfactory,
I will say God bless you all, is the prayer
of your sisters,
	MRS. R. A. DESPAIN, President,
	MISS ELLA E. DESPAIN, Secretary.

			EPHRAIM, June 12, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Though somewhat tardy, on account of
inability to write through laming my hand,
I send you an account of our Quarterly
Conference as regards business matters.
The sisters meet every two weeks, and we
have splendid meetings. Our President,
Mrs. S. A. Petersen, is always on hand for
duty, and has a willing band of officers to
carry out her counsels, which are always
for the building up of the kingdom of God.

		REPORT OF RECEIPTS.

Monthly donations in sundries......$ 78. 55
Sunday eggs...................................... 109. 58
Cash donations for Wales..............     29. 42
For Scandinavian Mission...............     59. 58
For apple and mulberry trees........     41. 00
Means from parties.........................     40. 00
Quilts made......................................     23. 00
								 ———
		Total,					381. 13
Disbursements during Quarterly term, from
Feb 17, 1878, until May 17, 1878:

To the Temple in Manti, 45 yds.
	Linsey..........................................$ 38. 70
2 pairs Socks......................................     1. 00
2 pairs gloves.....................................     1. 30
1 pair mittens.....................................       . 25
Quilts...................................................   17. 00
								 ———
	Total,						  58. 25
To Scandinavian Mission.................. 167. 00
To Welsh Mission...............................   29. 40
To poor at home, in rent, provi-
	sions, bedding, fuel, graveclothes
	and cash......................................  115. 20
For mulberry and apple trees...........   41. 00
								  ———
	Total,						 400. 85
Still on hand, twelve yards of homemade
cloth, 800 bushels of wheat, and one share
in Co-op Store.
	Respectfully, your sister,
		AGNES S. ARMSTRONG, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
IN THE CANON.

With weary footsteps, wandering
	From busy s enes of life,
In solitude, deep pondering
	Lone thoughts with sadness rife,
We sought the cool, inviting shade
	The birch boughs gently threw
Along the bosom of the glade
	Begemmed with crystal dew.
Around, the wild-rose foliage swung,
	In summer's radiant green;
Above, the giant boulders hung
	To guard the gentler scene:
Before, the snow-fed mountain stream
	In silver beauty flowed,
Its breast reflecting every gleam
	Aurora's sun bestowed.
The morning, young and beautiful,
	Breathes music to the soul
Of him whose thoughts are dutiful
	To nature's mild control;
For us, her varied melody
	She played with smiling face,
The stream, in rippling harmony,
	Enhanced each tuneful grace,
And held her jeweled chalice forth
	And wooed us to the draught,
Distilled for hearts, though sad, whose worth
	Repaid what worth they quaffed.
We drained her cup, and wisdom smiled
	As peace her gentle sway
Resumed, and, by her voice beguiled,
	Pale sadness died away;
There surely is in quietude,
	Where rustic nature dwells.
For spirits lost in solitude,
	For pain that inward wells,
A source of comfort yielding balm—
	A mother's tender kiss,
That lays the troubled waters calm,
	And fills the soul with bliss.

Wednesday morning, July 24, 1878,	O. F. W.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
SHOULD WE GLEAN?

	It is to the daughters of Zion, to the faith-
ful, the humble, the meek and the lowly,
that I would appeal in favor of gleaning;
for none but such will value it as a privi-
lege to out in perhaps, a very warm sum-
mer day, and gather the golden heads of
grain left in the field.
	In the short time since the sisters were
first told to store up grain, a great amount
of breadstuff has been laid up, with which
fact, all who read the EXPONENT are well
acquainted. The readers of the EXPONENT
will also remember that our beloved and de-
parted Prophet, President Brigham Young,
in a meeting with the sisters at Ogden,
said "Let the sisters glean." It is not for
me to say who should glean, and who
should not, "Wisdom is justified by her
children," but sisters, let none of us think
that it doesn't mean us, if we possibly can
go.
	Some will say "I will rather give a bushel
of wheat, than go out to glean." That is a
very good substitute for gleaning, provided
you cannot go; but, it does not quite cover
the ground, sisters, unless such is the case.
The wheat we glean to store up for Zion, is
clean, pure, plump wheat; it is not taken
from our husbands' granaries; it is clear,
positive, real gain, at the same time we
yield obedience to the command of a kind
Heavenly Father. Let us, who know the
will of our Father, labor while yet it is day,
for no one knoweth how long Providence
will vouchsafe such bountiful harvests as
we have been permitted to reap for a suc-
cession of years. It has been spoken by
holy prophets, modern, as well as ancient,
that famine will smite the earth and its in-
habitants. And how often have we not
shrank from the mere thought of the terri-

[Column 2]

ble sufferings that are yet to come upon
blind, disobedient, ungrateful mankind.
	To those, (if any there be) whose hands
are so soft, white and tender, that their
owners feel as if they can not possibly ex-
pose them so, or, they have not been
"raised" to do such work, I would say read
the beautiful little story, of a few months
back, in the EXPONENT, entitled "Two
pairs of hands." Let us all re-read, if we
do not remember, such spirited, inspiring
articles as "Sisters be in earnest," and
"The Grain Question," and not allow our-
selves to forget that the time is short, and
getting shorter every day in which to pre-
pare for the great day of the Lord's ven-
geance.
	The history of storing grain by the Re-
lief Society of this place, commenced in
'75, under the most favorable auspices.
Our Bishop made it a topic for public
speaking in our Sabbath meetings, by him-
self and the leading brethren, till in a few
weeks everybody in town was familiar
with it, and the way was paved for the sis-
ters whose duty it became to gather dona-
tions for Zion's Relief Fund. With all our
available means, except twenty-five dol-
lars with which we purchased a share in
the publication of the Woman's Book, we
bought up wheat; the brethren and sisters
all donating liberally, besides, soon swelled
the pile. And when the idea of gleaning
by the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A.
was mentioned, our Bishop called for vol-
unteers at every Sabbath meeting as long
as gleaning was kept up, to take the glean-
ers to the field and back, which was re-
sponded to by many of our brethren, the
bishop attending in person several times,
making us feel that they took a lively be-
coming interest in the endeavors of the
sisters. Those who volunteered to convey
the gleaners, met at the place appointed, at
8 o'clock, a. m., twice a week, and shortly
after we rolled out of town a very happy
company. We did not "stand," nor indeed,
"sit" on ceremonies, but we did sit down
on our empty sacks which, filled in the
evening, with headings afforded us very
comfortable seats. After gleaning from
9 till 12 a. m., we availed ourselves of the
"squatters right," and how we did enjoy
our dinner! The good things brought by
the sisters who had plenty, were freely di-
vided with those who had less, making
the nooning a very enjoyable affair. We
knew very well it would be naughty to lay
down the farmer's lucerne, and empty his
cellar for milk, so we did not do it. And
though we enjoyed our dinner immensely,
we did not forget that gleaning was object
number one, of which our well filled sacks
bore ample evidence.
	One of our most delicate and refined sis-
ters went out with us and gleaned, quite
sure of a severe headache, and on returning
home, told us with becoming pride, that
she had had no headache, and said she, "I
thought gleaning was something so hard,
so different from what it is."
	I have no doubt that gleaning would be
very hard to carry on to any great extent,
if the brethren did not give it their sup-
port if the gleaners were left to walk to
the field, and carry their filled sacks home,
after eight or nine hours gleaning; if the
gleaners were a small minority, instead of
a great majority of the sisters, old and
young of a place; if they were scoffed at,
instead of honored, encouraged and sup-
ported in it. By gleaning too many hours
a day, and too many days a week, it be-
comes irksome. But it takes faith, hope
and charity to glean for Zion.

[Column 3]

	May God bless those who have gleaned,
those who will glean hereafter, and those
who would cheerfully glean if they but
"could," and all who lend their influence
and efforts to the great object of filling the
store-houses of the Lord.
							H. M.
Gunnison, July. 1878.


For the EXPONENT.
 	THERE IS MUCH TO LEARN.

	I do not know if my few scattering 
thoughts may be worthy of a place in your
valuable paper. This morning I have been
reading an article in the EXPONENT, on
Jacob's pillar, by your much esteemed cor-
respondent, Mrs. Hannah T. King, and
cannot help exclaiming, how little we
know. I am an English woman, visited
Westminster; why certainly walked on the 
stone around the Coronation Chair, and not
until within an hour did I know tradition
said that stone was the identical pillar Ja-
cob rested his head on when he was blessed
with the Almightly sending his angel to
minister unto him. How true the saying
the older we grow in this kingdom, the less
we know, there is so much to learn and
sometimes we are so hard to acquire it.
This is an age of fashion, fault-finding and
nonsense, or shall I say seemingly so;
for Satan feels his time is short, and is
throwing his nets around us in every di-
rection seeking whom he may devour. Be-
sides he feels the Priesthood his Master, is
fully aroused, and understanding his wiles
is busy stopping every gap; yet a little
while and he will find himself thwarted.
Have not the prophets of old written that
God's people would be willing in the day of
His power? to do what? serve him truly,
loyally. That day is nigh at hand, and 
many, many are waiting and watching.
The masses of our people are earnest, even
those who seemingly are careless and in-
different to the interests of the kingdom;
probe them to the quick, they are sound
on the gospel. My sisters, let us watch and
pray that God will bless us, that the young, 
our darling children, when weighed in the 
balance will not be found wanting. If it
were in my power, I for one, as a fond,
foolish mother, would e'en bear every trial 
that my children might walk in the paths
of comfort and blessings. Bnt that, we
parents have to learn must not be, 'twould
rob them of the crowns of glory they
would have if proved faithful. I read, and
see a great deal of folly in regard to ex-
travagance in dress, furbelows, trails and
all the formula of fashion is in our midst.
Cannot we middle-aged sisters lay aside
every form of dress except that which is
neat, economical, pleasant to the eye and
comfortable to the wearer. If we do this,
our  footsteps, wisdom will assume her
power over us, and we may soon become
what we desire, a pattern to all nations. 
May God bless us to that end, is the prayer
of your co laborer. B. M.
	Richmond, Cache Co., July 16th, 1878.


Marriage is a most sacred and solemn ordi-
nance; it should never be esteemed lightly.
The days of life are many, and diversities
of circumstances sorely try all—prosperity
as well as adversity has its peculiar disad-
vantage, and too much care cannot be tak-
en in cultivating and developing affection
after marriage, that the strength of affec-
tion may overcome all trials and unite
truly those who are made one by the priest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.	
	Exponent Office Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. AUG. 1, 1878.


THE APPROACHING ELECTION: On Monday
Aug. 5th inst. the sisters who are qualified vot-
ers should deposit their votes in the respective
precincts to which they belong, making prop-
er use of the "elective franchise," which has
been conferred upon the women of this Terri-
tory,and which should be held as a sacred right,
never at any time esteeming lightly the oppor-
tunity given through this, of representation.
The Hon. Mr. Courtney, member of the House
of Commons, in a speech before that Honora-
ble body June 19, 1878, upon women holding
office,said, "We must look at results in order to 
arrive at just conclusions, and of all the reports
made of the effect of women holding responsi-
ble positions, the evidence proves that woman
has performed her work creditab[-]y and thor-
oughly; one instance only to the contrary, and
the only testimony which could be produced,
when the question was asked, why was it not
successful, was "Because," which being inter-
preted, meaneth no reason at all.


[Column 1]
WOMEN OF TO-DAY.

	It is becoming self evident that woman's
sphere of usefulness is enlarging, and whereas
in the past, women have only had domestic
duties to attend to, many are now called upon
to fill positions of honor and trust in the vari-
ous callings and avocations of life. Th[-]s is to
a certain extent as yet only experimental,
though in some professio[-]s women alr[-]ady ex-
cel in skill and proficiency. There are to be
sure many records of women of the past, who
took an active part in the different callings
usually allotted to men; yet these are consid-
ered exceptional, and cannot be taken as evi-
dence of the capabilities of the sex in general.
Therefore it is well for the women of the nine-
teenth century to be able to stand upon their
own real merits, and not pride thems[-]lves up-
on others, however illustrious they may have
been. What the women of to-day are capable
of doing now, is the question, not what th[-]ir
grandmothers or ancestry did do. This is an
age of di[-]covery, invention and progression.
And admitting that fact, is woman to be ex-
clud[-]d? Would it be fair that man should ad-
vance to a higher plane and woman remain
"In statu quo?" such ideas are inconsistent.
Notwithstanding all the arguments against the
equality of sex, suffrage, and women's filling
any public calling or office, yet every year
steady advances are made in this direction,
and the current of public opinion is changing
tone perceptibly.
	Women are proving the ground they take by
practical demonstration. The good results [-]f
any move is the best proof that can be given,
and is, anybody prepared to say woman has
not m[-]de proper use of the Suffrage? And if
she has been judicious and wise after voting

[Column 2]
six consecutive years she is surely competent
to hold such offices as under the "laws and stat-
utes" woman is eligible to be elected to. The
recent move made in this city of electing lady
delegates to the County Convention calls forth
remarks upon the subject of woman's capabili-
ities, sphere and duties; and doubtless will
awaken much latent thought in the minds of
both men and women, and by the exchanging
of ideas many who had previously given little
consideration to the matter, will receive new
light and come to a better understanding of
woman's true position and relative [-]ssociation
with man in all that concerns the public, po-
litically, socially, and religiously. It seems to
us very contradictory to talk of woman's in-
fluence in promoting the best interests of hu-
manity, and in the same breath declare her
total[-]y unfit to stand by man in a poli[-]ical
sense.
	It would almost lead one to think that there
was so much intrigue and deceit practised, that
men were afraid of exposure, else why are
they unwilling that women should mingle in
politics? If it is because women [-]re really un-
qualified and incompetent then what need to
oppose it, is any body going to push people in-
to office that have not requisite qualifications?
Why be afraid of the Suffrage for women?
	The agitation of Woman Suffrage has been
of efficacy in leading people to examine the
subject of representation and government
more thoroughlily, and thus become better in-
formed in relation to general interest. In this
community women who never before gave any
thought to public duties, have, since the Suf-
frage was extended to them, seen for them-
selves the benefits derived from an understand-
ing of even such general principles as it is pos-
sible for the most ordinary-minded to compre-
hend. If women have not been competent to
use the franchise intelligently in times past,
they are so now, generally speaking, and are
becoming more so all the time. The great im-
provements being constantly made develop
woman's attributes as well as man's, and as
knowledge increases so does power, and this is
true with individuals as well as communities,
and where there is power of mind there will
be practical results. Woman has been, and is
doing all she is called upon, or allowed to do in
education and improvement; in short in every
department where she is permitted to work.
For this reason we believe it is unjust for her
to be deprived a claim for recognition by the
right which men citizens enjoy, viz. the el[-]c-
tive franchise. The American people profess
to believe in a representative government; then
if all classes are to be represented, why not wo-
men represent themselves. It cannot be said
that women have not aided in every place
where they have labored in public inte[-]ests,
and certainly their v[-]ry womanliness, their
strong material aff[-]cti[-]ns would natural[-]y lead
them to seek the best methods of ensuring
peace, and to abolish the use of liquor and oth-
er stimulants that destroy home, life and happi-
ness, at well as ruin the body and soul of their
sons and husbands. These are some of the
most potent agents in moving women to inter-
cede and plead for the Suffrage. They have
tried, it would seem, all other methods to save
these dear to them, and they have been
wrought upon most strongly by the condition
in which the country is, in relation to the sale
of alcohol and its evil consequences. You may
say every woman has not this to actuate her,
but if every woman has not, nine tenths we
may say in safety have either son, husband,
father, brother, or friend who is a slave to that
terrible foe to human [---] and happiness and
the immortal soul.

[Column 3]
	To the women of to day opportunities are
constantly presenting themselves, men are be-
coming educated in the idea of woman's pro-
gression and realize her efficient help; old bar-
riers are being removed one by one, the iron
walls of custom are crumbling away, and the
idols of old tradition are being dethroned by
new innovations. The people are advancing
rapidly towards the marvelous changes which
have b[-]en predicted by ancient and modern
prophets, and these changes involve the inter-
ests of women quite as much as men; and wo-
man must act her part and not shrink from
duty in the great programme. Woman will
learn in time that there are other duties than
domestic ones to be performed, for in all that
concerns man, she must take an active part.
Let her seek wisdom for her guide and abide
in the counsel of the Almighty, and s[-]e n[-]ed
not fear to step forward wherever, and when-
ever the occasion requires it, and let her pre-
pare herself so well, that she will be able to
perform creditably any work which may be
given her either in public or private life.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received through courtesy of
Prof. J. R. Park, Principal of the Deseret Uni-
versity, the Circular containing items of inter-
est concerning this institution. The Univer-
sity was founded in 1850, and was conducted
after the manner of a Commercial College; but
since 1869 it has been fully organized as an In-
stitution for Scientific and Classic Instruction.
It is divided into three departments, Prepara-
tory, Normal and Academic. The Academic
year is divided into four terms; the first term
will commence August 19th. This Institution
is ably conducted by Dr. Park and his assist-
ants Professors Toronto and Kingsbury.
	THE GRAND Twenty-Fourth of July, the
anniversary of that "day of days," has past
over for another year; and among the amuse-
ments upon that occasion we would make
special mention of the "matinee" in the Thea-
tre, as it was a very enjoyable affair fer the lit-
tle folks and elder ones, and was designed to
serve two very worthy purposes; while it af-
forded innocent recreation, the money expend
ed will serve a grand and holy purpose, in as
sisting to build a house for divine worship.
We commend the Committee in so estimable a
project, and congratulate them upon its com-
plete success. The house was more than
crowded, and the applause was almost "terrif-
ic," but then, such manifestations of mirth
and hilarity are expected on such occasions.
We tender thanks to the Committee for Com-
plimentary Tickets received.
	THE "JUVENILE Instructor" has recently
moved into a new office built just west of the
residence of the Hon. George Q. Cannon,
where it was formerly published. The build-
ing stands on East Temple Street and is near
the railroad depot, so that its business facilities
as regard locality are excellent. The front
room is nicely fitted up for business, and there
for sale are all the standard Church Books al-
so complete volumes of the "Juvenile Instruc-
tor," neatly bound. The composing room is
behind the front office, and is a very pleasant
large room, suitable for work; an attic above
serves to store away paper and other things
used in an establishment of this sort. This
cellar which is high in the ceiling is used
for the press, and is pleasant, door opening to
the north, with large windows and every ac-
commodation necessary for the labor. Anoth-
er basement room under the front office is used
as a store-room as the "Juvenile" takes p[-]o


[Column 1]
duce of different kinds on subscription.  The
little paper is ably edited and contains many
excellent things suitable for people of all ages
as well as children.  It should be in every fam-
ily in the Territory, but more especially where
there are children.  We congratulate our fra-
ternal friends at the Juvenile Office in hav-
ing so commodious an office of their own, and 
trust that the patronage of this community
may enable the EXPONENT to do likewise.
	THE PRIMARY Meetings in the Five Pre-
cincts in this city, convened Monday evening
in the respective localities.  The delegates to 
the County Convention from each Precinct
were chosen in the usual order, except by
nominating ladies as delegates.  This gave
rise to some argumentation in one precinct al-
though in the other two where ladies were
chosen no remarks were made.  As this is a 
new departure from old-fashioned customs, it
will of course, call forth criticism and ridicule
as all innovations do; but it will be one more
experiment bearing upon the question of wo-
man's capabilities.  Our space will not per-
mit us to publish all the proceedings of the 
meetings or the names of all delegates but will
only name the ladies chosen: Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Mrs. Mary
P. Freeze, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells.  Alter
nates, Mrs. Diana Ried, Mrs. Hannah T.
King, Mrs. Sarept[-] M. Heywood, Mrs. Harriet
C. Mo[-]ris, M[-]s. Prisc[-]lla M. Staines.  In the
Second Precinct where some remarks were
made against women holding public offices,
Mrs. Horne made some very shrewd allusions
to women of the Scriptures, mentioning Deb-
orah who judged Israel forty years "and there
was peace in the land." 
	SOMETHING NEW: The Salt Lake County
Convention, met pursuant to call at the Court
House Saturday July 27, at 11 o'clock, a. m.
Hon. John Sharp, Chairman Central Commit-
tee, called the meeting to order, W. W. Riter
was elected temporary president, and David
McKenzie temporary secretary.  A committee
on credentials was appointed, their report re-
ceived, committee discharged.  The creden-
tials showed all the precincts were rep[-]esented
except Little Cottonwood, Bingham, Sandy,
Silver, Granger and Pleasant Grove.  Roll
called showing all the delegates were present
but three.  The Convention was hen perma-
nently organized with Hon. John Sharp, Pres
ident, Joseph Rawlins, and Alexander Hill,
Vice Presidents David McKenzie and Em-
meline B. Wells, Secretaries.  George H. Tay-
lor; Chaplain, and Peter Reid, Sergeant at-
arms The Convention then opened by pray-
er.  A committee of nine was first appointed
on nominations.  J. R. Winder, J. Booth,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Henry Arnold, Frank
Armstrong, W. Lemon, A. W. Smith, A. Hill,
S. Bennion were appointed by the chair.
	While the Committee retired for consulta-
tion, speeches were made by the Chairman
Messrs. John T. Caine, David McKenzie and 
A. H. Raleigh.  The Committee returning pre-
sented their report which was received and 
they were discharged.  Among the names re-
ported for office was a lady for County Treas-
urer:  The Convention voted on the nomina-
tions separately.  All the men were elected to
office, but when the lady's name was brought
before the Convention, the question was asked
as to the eligibility of ladies to hold office un-
der the present statutes of the Territory.  Re-
marks were made upon the subject by both
gentlemen and ladies, a copy of the Compiled
Laws of Utah was brought and it was found
the word "male" citizens, instead of simply
citizens, was the only legal objection against

[Column 2]
ladies holding office.  A motion was made
by the Secretary David McKenzie that a vote
of confidence be given to the lady candidate,
and the sense of the Convention be expressed
to the effect that but for the Territorial Stat-
utes d[-]claring ladies ineligible to office in
Utah the nomination would have been sus-
tained by the Convention.
	The nominations made for Justi[-]es of the 
Peace and Constables in the several precincts,
were read and adopted.  The Convention then
discussed the subject of paying for tickets for
the coming election, as the County Court made
no provision for more than Ballot Boxes, en-
velopes and stationery.  On motion of W. W.
Riter, the nominees for office were declared to
be the proper persons to pay for the printing of
tickets.  The Convention decided that the
Central Committee were authorized to fill any
vacancies which may occur on the ticket
through any of the present nominees declin-
ing to act.  The names of the Peoples Central
Committee for Salt Lake Co. were read, and as
they were all residents of Salt Lake City, it
was decided to nominate four, from precincts
outside the city, which was done and four of 
the names of the present number withdrawn
in their favor.  Mrs. Wells moved that three
ladies names be added to the Committee; the
Chairman put the question to the Convention
and gave the lady delegates the privilege of 
nominating.  Mrs. Mary P. Freeze then nomi-
nated as members, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. M.
I. Horne, Mrs. S. M. Kimball, and the motion
was unanimously carried.  The business of the 
Convention being concluded a vote of thanks
was tendered to the Chairman and a motion
made for adjournment "sine die."  Closed with
prayer by the Chaplain.
	We feel that a decided step has been taken
in favor of woman's advancement during this
Convention and we tender our cordial thanks
to the gentlemen of the Convention for their 
cou[-]tesy and liberality on the subject, as we
realize that a new era is dawning upon the 
world, in which woman, as well as man must
take an active and prominent part, and they
cannot be too mutually helpful in all that per-
tains to the interests of both.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	THERE has been a time of general sorrow
here in Ephraim and Mayfield, and it seemed
providential that our dear Sisters Eliza R.
Snow and Zina D. Young came just at that
time with comforting words of hope, soothing
and consoling the bereaved parents and friends.
On Saturday, June 22d, a party of young peo-
ple, thirteen in number, eight of them only
children in years, took a pleasure trip in a
boat on a small lake near here. A sudden
squall of wind came up so furious that it up-
set the boat and two only were saved of its in-
mates.
	From Mayfield, Olivr Oviatt and his wife
Rosabella, eldest daughter of Harden and
Margaret Whitlock; Abagail Stevens, daugh-
ter of Joseph and Abagail Stevens; Noral Neil-
son, oldest child of Christian and Sena Neil-
son; Sarah Williams, daughter of John and
Christina Williams; William Henry Jensen,
son of Henry and Christina Jensen. From
Ephraim, Melinda Anderson, daughter of Jens
and Lena Anderson, Lizzie Thomson Ballon,
daughter of Jens and Annie Thomson Ballon;
George Larsen, son of James and Kerstine
Larsen; Charles Christieson, son of Anton and
Lena Christiesen; Lizzie Andersen, daughter
of Lars and Marin Andersen, a sweet, bright,
beautiful girl, who always reminded one of a


rift of sunshine. These two Charles and Liz-
zie, were betrothed and were buried in the
same grave. Sisters Snow and Young blessed
and comforted those bereaved, and their visit
will long be remembered, with blessing by the
sisters in Ephraim. This sad affair has cast a
gloom over the people, and yet when we think 
[-]hat,

'Life might have sunk, a long disease,
	Or falsehood's breath have stained their fame
Or passion's hopeless agonies,
	Have smote their bosoms like a flame;
But now, upon their living glance
	Are sights which earthly glories dim,
Earth lost in the sublime expanse,
	All nature one majestic hymn.
Then, shall we for their glory weep,
	And grieve them with our idle fears?
Love was not born in tombs to sleep,
	In realms of light we'll find it there.'

		AGNES S. ARMSTRONG, Sec'y.


A FEW MINUTES WITH THE
DEAD.

Your dear little rose-bud has left you
	To bloom in a holier sphere,
He who gave it, in wisdom bereft you.
	Then why should you cherish a tear?—E. R. SNOW

	It was on a cloudy Autumn day in the year
1871. For a few minutes I was alone with the
dead—a bright little blue-eyed child. He lay
in an elegant black coffin. His cheeks were as
red as they had been before life became ex-
tinct. He had died without sickness. One
minute previous to his death he was seen play-
ing around the door in his usual manner, full
of life and in the bloom of health, the next
minute he was a corpse.
	It is only these who have been bereft of
loved ones that can truly imagine the feelings
of a parent who has been called to mourn the
loss of a dear departed one.
	How quiet and solemn everything seemed.
No noise. Nothing to be heard but the tick-
ing of the clock. I gazed upon my darling
again and again. He looked so life-like that I
bent my head down to see if I could hear him
breathe. No, there was not the least sign.
Recollections of the past came vividly to my
mind. Then I asked myself the question, "Is
it not a dream?" I could hardly believe it was
true; but nevertheless it was so—it was too
true. I looked again upon those life-like, red
rosy cheeks and those pretty blue eyes, and
whilst gazing upon his lovely form, I solilo-
quized to myself: "Take away from me all I
possess, turn me out into the streets, without
home, without friends, with but enough cloth-
ing, without friends, with but enough cloth-
ing to cover my nakedness, only give me back
the darling I so dearly loved, and I'll not mur-
mur; I'll not complain, but raise my heart to
Him who reigns above with thankfulness and
gratitude, and praise His holy name." "The
Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away,
blessed be the name of the Lord."
	In an elevated part of the Salt Lake Ceme-
tery can be seen a large number of graves of
children who died in infancy, amongst which
rest the remains of the loved one spoken of,
and the following is part of the inscription on
the grave-board:
	"Died from drinking benzine oil in mistake
for water." R. A.
	S. L. City, July 18, 1878.


Tapioca Pudding: Put eight tablespoonfuls of
tapioca to three pints of milk and let it get milk-
warm, soaking it till it is soft, then mix with it
two spoonfuls of butter, three eggs well beaten,
half cup of s[-]gar, half a nutmeg and bake imme-
diately. This pudding is good either hot or cold.


[Column 1]
when you left. Some of it has been taken
down, and the main building is finished, or part-
ly so; Bydeman, once Emma Smith's husband,
and his wife live in it; its walls made me think
of the Council House walls, they were so thick;
the first story is built of white stone just like the
Temple, and the walls of the first floor of one of
the wings of the same stone is still standing, it
alone is 123 ft. long, so you can imagine how
long they intended it to be. The other stories
are of brick, and all speak of how remarkable,
it is, that they should have stood so long. The
staircase is of walnut. The river is just a few
steps from the west door; the oak trees are still
standing; trumpet vines and the flowers have
climbed to the top, and looks beautiful. We
bought a picture of Joseph Smith, and saw pic-
tures of the whole family. In their parlor was
the old secretary owned by Hyrum Smith, and
it is elegant, but very old fashioned; an old
checker table that Joseph owned, also a bureau
that was very handsome, and an old center
table elegantly carved. We then went across
the street to Joseph's old home and drank out of
that old well too, and saw the grave-yard. The
house is just the same old house.		*
*			We saw where they said he and his
brother lay; the grave is between two locust
trees; we also saw the little fruit frame
that stood over the grave for years; next we
saw his old house, it was well preserved, not
used for anything. From there we went to
Aaron Johnson Esq's. old house. The old print-
ing office was moved away up the river, but we
saw the house, and went all through it. they
took the old fire-place away last winter, but the
rest is much the same; the sweetest young
married woman lived there; she was so kind,
and felt so sorry for us because we cried. She
had a sweet little baby about as large as Belle's,
with blue eyes. I cannot express my feelings
here, I was completely broken down, and could
think of nothing but you, my own sweet mother,
and of your sorrow. Next we went to H. C. 
Kimball's, and it is a grand looking house; right
in the center of the old house is a white rock
about two yards in length with H. C. K, 1845,
engraved upon it. There are some Germans liv-
ing in the house; they were very kind to us and
took us all through the house; we went in the
large room	*	*	and the two bedrooms;
up stairs in all the rooms, and into the third
story, and up on to the observatory; there is the
most beautiful view from there I ever saw. I
thought of Aunt Helen, and I don't blame her
for speaking so often of her home, for it is beau-
tiful. I brought her a piece of a large evergreen.
They have built a wing on and the whole
place looks lovely; there is also a large block of
redstone on the east side of the house with the
same ingraving on. Next we went to where
Belle's father, Bishop Whitney, lived; the house
is all gone, and the prettiest place in Nauvoo
stands on the ground where his home stood; the
old back steps were there still. Then we went
to what used to be the old graveyard; some of
the old graves are still left in the people's lots,
and others are moved to the new cemetery.
From there we went back to the hotel. Mr
Smith, the old man that took us around, told us
that all Joseph's prophecies had come true but
one, and that was about the "Mormons" coming
back. He said Joseph said it should become a
vineyard, and the Mormons should drink the
wine, and at that time there were no grapevines
there. Now it is indeed a beautiful vineyard;
miles and miles of grapevines and nothing else,
and we had some of the wine in St. Louis. He
also said it should be deserted, and should be as
a dead city; and oh, that is true! There is some-
thing about the death-like stillnnss that you
cannot express. I forgot to tell you that we went

[Column 2]
out to Joseph Smith's farm and drank out of
the very old well. Oh, such a day, I never ex-
pect to see anything like it again; such feelings,
ma; they are beyond all description. Every step
I took I wondered if you had ever been there,
and oh, how I did long to speak to you, and ask
you questions! It seemed as if you must be
there, and I would turn around to look. I never
had such a strange feeling. I could not find
father's house, but saw the Masonic Hall, where
they told me he once had his office, during some
trial, but there was an old gentleman, a Mr.
Morrell, that called on me last night, and was
to call this morning, that could have told me
everything, but we came away so early that I
could not see him again. We had to come on
this steamer for there was no telling when
there would be another, and we feel anxious to
get on our way esst. I should love to see you
all. There is never one moment that you are
not in our thoughts. I wanted so much to say
my letter was from Nauvoo, but it was so near,
just as we left, that I guess I might say so.	*	*
I do not forget any of you in my prayers, but
constantly pray for the health and safety of you
all. Give our love to all the folks and to all the
children. I shall try and write up my first
steam-boat ride for you. We are going from St.
Louis to Chicago, and then I expect to go direct
to Massachusetts. Good night, dear heart.
				Lovingly,
						LOUIE WELLS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BELLE HARRIS AND BABY.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I am brim full of contempt and disgust at
the actions and rulings of the grand jury,
prosecuting attorney and judges, the whole heap
of them, Senator Edmunds included; and if
you can find or imagine any words which can
more fully express my contempt consider them
said. It is a disgracs to the whole nation the
way they are abusing that noble woman, Belle
Harris and her baby. Never glory in being an
American citizen again. I was born in Englandl
so I wont have to share the odium that is fast
making the United States a hiss and a bye word
amongst the Monarchial Governments of the
world. Don't talk about the Spanish Inquisition
or the Star Chamber after this abuse of an inno-
cent woman. If the United States are not in-
augurating a religious persecution against the
Latter-day Saints I am mistaken; (I know I am
not) they have taken the right of franchise for
doing that which was not an offence at the
time of commital; they drag women and babes
from their homes and put them in prison with-
out trial of any kind, because they refuse to
answer impudent questions; granting, for the
sake of argument, that she is a plural wife and
has children in the marriage relation, which I
don't know anything about never having seen
the lady, what right have they to make her
criminate herself; is this just? They would for-
bid such a question to a murderer or a bank rob-
ber, but she, poor thing, is a Mormon, that
makes all the difference. There is something
said in the Declaration of Independence, (a
noble instrument), about worshiping God ac-
cording to the dictates of our own conscience,
and "taxation without representation." Oh!
but that don't mean you Mormons, Oh no! "We
the Federal officials, have power under the Ed-
munds Law to persecute you until you bend
your consciences to our august will. We, the
Federal officials, under the Edmunds Law, will
blot out of your souls every religious sentiment
that is obnoxious to the minority who dwell in
Utah; we mean to pop all women into the Peni-
tentiary who have children in the marriage rela-
tion that we don't approve of; we will confiscate


all your property that we desire, with or without
law; we will degrade your children all we can;
we will heap insult on insult upon you until
you revold, then we will call on the military to
exterminate you; mobs have killed your prophets,
your men, women and children before, and may
do so again. The American Nation is a great
nation, but you are only a handful of poor de-
luded foold; we are going to get rid of you now;
you have made this country so that we can live
in it, and we intend to have it for us and the
minority to dwell in."
	Yes, you have done these things, and more;
you have insulted and imprisoned our best men,
women and children, and will continue to do so
until the Lord says, enough. Then woe, woe,
unto you, for the plagues, sorrows and desolation
that will fall on you and follow your footsteps
wherever you may go; you shall see your dear-
est hopes blasted and come to naught, and the
cup of sorrow you are pressing to the lips of the
Latter-day Saints you shall drain to the dregs,
for it is your wages; the measure you give you
shall receive.					MARY.
	Grantsville, July 27th, 1883.


IN MEMORIAM.

	By the death of Bishop L. E. Harrington a gloom has
been cast over our little city. Having been Bishop and
President since the organization of American Fork as a
branch of the Church, he has endeared himself to the
hearts and affections of the people to that extent that
they cannot fail to realize their loss keenly; neverthe-
less we acknowledge the hand of the Lord in our be-
reavement, and feel to say, "Thy will be done."
	Leonard E. Harrington was born January 27th, 1815,
at New Lisbon, Oswego Co., New York. Embraced the
Gospel in 1842, and gathered with the Saints at Nau-
voo; shared in the persecutions of the Saints, and ar-
rived in Salt Lake City in September, 1847, having
crossed the plains in the first company of families that
came. In 1850 he became one of the first settlers of
American Fork, and has never ceased to labor for the
interest of his ward as Bishop, counselor, father and
friend until his demise, which occurred June 21st, 1883.
The funeral was the largest one ever witnessed in this
place.
	At a special meeting of the Relief Society of Ameri-
can Fork the following resolutions were unanimously
adopted:
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father, in his infinite wis-
dom, has seen fit to call from our midst our beloved
friend and brother, Bishop Leonard E. Harrington, and,
	Whereas, We miss his kind and fatherly counsels,
realize that in him we have lost a firm friend, a man of
God, and one who was loyal to the cause of his religion,
and that of his country. A true friend of woman, who
did not hesitate, in his unflinching integrity, to plead
her cause in the Legislature of the Territory, in Conven-
tion and in every place and at all times, whenever op-
portunity presented itself, Therefore, be it resolved,
	That we, the Relief Society of American Fork, do
deeply deplore the loss of our beloved Bishop, Leonard
E. Harrington, and that we truly sympathize with the
bereaved family in their great affliction, and pray our
Heavenly Father to console them in their great be-
reavement, and be unto them an ever present help in
every time of need.
				MARY FINDLEY, President,
				EMMA FEATHERSTONE; Secretary.

	On Tuesday, June 12th, Mrs. Janet Gibson died sud-
denly at Bishop Sharp's, in the home of her daughter
Mrs. Annie G. Sharp. Deceased was the widow of
Elder Wm. Gibson, who labored for many years as a
missionary in the old country and also in America.
Deceased was born in Johnston, Renfrewshire Co., Scot-
land, October, 1813, her maiden name was Nichol.
	She was married to Wm. Gibson December 6th, 1881, in
Paisley. She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints at Paisley, November 24th
1840, by Elder Francis Sprowl. During the time Bro. and
Sister Gibson remained in Edinburgh after they received
the Gospel, Brother Gibson was almost constantly en-
gaged in promoting the spread of the principles of
truth, and temporal affairs were a secondary considera-
tion. Sister Gibson labored faithfully in domestic af-
fairs, and was also zealous in spiritual things, always


not. What do some of the guardians of
our public morals in the centre of this great
Republic do? They try to conceal villainy
in its worst forms, and they come out to
Utah and exclaim in holy horror against
Plural Marriage. "O Consistency! what a
jewel thou art!" What do some of our
would-be friends come here for? Not to
save and elevate woman, not to promote
virtue and chastity. No; but to defile and
destroy and lead astray the young and un-
wary. And if they are thwarted they say
we are so exclusive; would to God we were
more so, that we could keep the daughters
of Zion from evil influences. Men of the
world come into our midst with their oily
tongues, beautiful language, genteel man-
ners and polished appearance outwardly,
and it is a very easy matter to lead away
the unsuspecting. Who is to blame?
Fathers and mothers sometimes; they love
their daughters so much that they do not
like to cross them in their love matters,
they are afraid they will be unhappy, that
it will blight their lives, and so they suffer
them to marry men who are destitute of
principle and the Spirit of God, and find
too late that their lives are ruined, they
are more wretched than they could possibly
have been to remain single, or marry good
men with large families already, who were
following out the revelations of God given
in this last dispensation, and seeking to ob-
tain celestial glory by keeping the laws
pertaining thereto. Parents do not instruct
their daughters sufficiently in the conse-
quences of forming improper attachments,
do not throw around them the safeguards
that will form sure protection against in-
sidious influences. Step by step, little by
little are the inroads made that finally re-
sult most perniciously on the lives of some
of our young. Much more could be said
on this subject, but let this suffice. One
word more: Who are our daughters' present
Guardian Angels? I think their mothers
are, or ought to be. Then let us as moth-
ers in Israel rise up in our dignity and be
ever vigilant in the discharge of our duty,
leaving no loophole for the enemy to enter.
Teach our daughters that virtue and honor
are priceless, and that in obedience to pa-
rents there is safety.

			ISABELLA PRATT WALTON.
	Mill Creek, July 18, 1878.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		39﻿


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

	MORONI, SANPETE Co., July, 12, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Thinking that a few items from this un-
usually quiet place would be acceptable, we
take the liberty of sending you a few
lines.
	Our Relief Society has been in existence
ten years, and, to many of its members, it
has been a great blessing in the many op-
portunities it has furnished for pure and
unalloyed enjoyment of the blessings of
the gospel, and in the sweet communion of
the Holy Spirit of promise that cheers and
blesses the saints of God, and in the many
opportunities that have been afforded of
cheering the needy, and comforting the
weary. Our Society now numbers ninety-
eight members, many of whom are fully
alive to the duties of the hour. We have
now on hand three hundred and fifty-four
bushels of wheat, as a beginning of our
stores towards a time of need; we have al-
so made two hundred pounds of good
cheese, have donated fifty-four dollars to
the Temple this year, from the Sunday
eggs that the sisters have saved, also fifty-

[Column 2]
one dollars in cash for the same purpose,
and over one hundred dollars in clothing
for workmen on the Temple. We have
been blest in being able to aid that worthy
cause. To the Welsh Emigration Fund we
have donated twenty-eight dollars, and
have yet a nice amount on hand for the
benefit of the needy, and for the carrying
out of the purposes of our organization. It
certainly seems as if our little stores were
blessed and increased like the widow's
meal of old, and we can but thank the Giv-
er of all good, for the many manifestations
of His goodness towards us.
	We all felt greatly blessed and strength-
ened by the late visit of our beloved sis-
ters Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. Young;
their words were sweet and consoling; we
desire to carry out their counsels, and pray
heaven to bless them and continue their
days of usefulness with us, and also upon
Sisters Amelia Goldsborough of Nephi, and
M. A. P. Hyde of Spring City who accom-
panied them.
	Perhaps we trespass, but we cannot close
without tendering our meed of praise to
you, for your noble efforts in our Father's
cause; in your many and arduous labors in
conducting the ever fresh and cheering
EXPONENT, which is indeed an exponent
of the views, feelings and aspirations of
Utah's noble women.
	We remain your sisters etc,
			JANE BAILEY, Pres't.
			SUSAN CHRISTENSEN, Sec'y.

		FOUNTAIN GREEN, July 8th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	As we have been honored of late with a visit
from our much beloved Sisters E. R. Snow,
Z. D. Young and M. A. P. Hyde, we thought
worthy to report an interesting meeting
held here. The people of this place were
notified that the sisters of this place would
be with us. A goodly attendance assem-
bled together of the Relief Society and the
Young Ladies' Association, also many of
the brethren, and an interesting time was
enjoyed by all. After the usual ceremo-
nies of singing and prayer and introducing
these sisters by the President of the So-
ciety, Miss E. R. Snow expressed much
pleasure in being with us, and in seeing so
many brethren present as we needed their
co-operation in our labors. Spoke of the
divided interests of the people of the
world, compared them with our united in-
terests. Spoke on the organization of the
Relief Society; that every sister who had
her name enrolled in this kingdom, should
become a member of it, and was required
to be a live active one; that Joseph Smith
said that this organization was designed to
help the Bishops relieve the poor, and to
save souls; and it was an organization of
the kingdom of God. Said many thought
we should be judged by our motives, but
our motives lead us on to actions, and by
our actions we shall be judged. That
many a sister thought that if she did not
live her religion, her husband would save
her, but our reward will be according to
our works. Told the mothers to watch over
their children from their earliest days, and
as soon as they were baptized, have them
join an organization that while their minds
were pure they might continue to grow up
in the knowledge of the things of the
kingdom. Said let the mothers arrange
their work so that when meeting time
comes they may not be hindered from at-
tending, and set them good example[-], for
they were watching us, and it was [-]mall
things that ruined the character, "The lit-
tle foxes spoil the vines." She counseled

[Column 3]
parents not to let their daughters go to
Salt Lake City to hire out. Said she did
not consider herself any better than we
were, but had had a great deal more ex-
perience. Joseph Smith said that the Re-
lief Society was designed to perfect wo-
man and correct the morals. Every wife
that was living up to her duty should be a
counselor to her husband, not a dictator; we
have set out for a fulness of exaltation in
the kingdom of God, and we are heirs
of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ.
Did not like to see the sisters wear sun-bon-
nets, would like to see their countenances;
wanted us to have a class of braiders that
had stamina enough to persevere in siraw.
work and let the sisters wear hats; liked to
see them look beautiful, but not follow af-
ter the fashions of Babylon. Spoke on
home manufacture, of winter and summer
wear. Said if we planted out mulberry
trees in faith the Lord would bless us so we
could raise them, as he had done others in
some of the northern settlements. Was
glad to hear we had some grain stored, as
famine was sure to come for the Lord had
decreed it; wanted us to raise beans and
store up. Spoke of the Lord having a
tried people, and we must perfect ourselves
and prove our integrity, and that it would
be a password for us into the Celestial
Kingdon; and we must help and cheer each
other all we can for there is enough trouble
for us all to pass through.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young said she was happy
in being with us, and that it was right that
we should become acquainted with each
other, and have a perfect understand-
ing that difficulties might not exist between
us; that more difficulties arose through
misunderstandings than anything else; that
we had a right to be happy, and we are on
an equality one with another. She loved
to talk with the sisters when the spirit of
the Lord was upon her. Spoke of there
being sisters in S. L. City, who were learn-
ed in medicine and surgery, had received
their diplomas, could set dislocated joints,
and were prepared to teach others. That
we should have some one in every settle-
ment qualified to do these things. Asked
the Lord to sanctify our troubles to us.
	Mrs. Amelia Goldsbrough from Nephi,
made some remarks on what had been said,
and on the order of Celestial Marriage.
Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde thought it unwise to
detain us much longer. The Spirit of God
was poured out upon the sisters and made
manifest in the gifts of the Gospel, prov-
ing the Lord is willing to bless us if we
keep his commandments. Our President
called on Elders B. Lund, J. G. Guymon,
R. Carter, C. Collard, and S Jewkes to oc-
cupy a short time; each made a few re-
marks, expressing their satisfaction in wit-
nessing so good a time.
	Your Sisters, etc.

			POLLY ANN JOHNSON, Pres't.
			MARY JEWKES, Sec'y.


THE AVOCATIONS OF WOMEN.—In the
United States, according to the census of
1870, out of  9,750,000 women, 1,594,783 wo-
men and girls above the age of 10, or only
one in six of the whole female population, 
are represented in the tables of occupation. 
Leaving out of the account 374,832 who, in
the number slated, are registered as agri-
cultural laborers, and are mainly colored,
there are still left 1,221,451 white women
engaged in the industries of the country.
Of these 22,681 are farmers and planters; 
353,950 are engaged in manufactures; 18,
698 in trade and commerce; 84,047 in
teaching; 7,060 in keeping boarding-houses;


867,354 in domestic service; 1,179 are bar-
bers and hair-dressers; 1,186 are midwives,
and from 500 to 600 are physicians.
	In the next census report, it is to be
hoped that the hundreds of thousands of
women, who are holding the most responsi-
ble of all business posts, viz., that of mother
and home-maker, will be counted as having
a business, and as producers. These avoca-
tions have had no recognized money value
up to this hour, and so they are not even
mentioned in the census.
	Before another ten years have elapsed,
there should be a pecuniary value legally
secured for them. This will ensure to
wives and mothers their proper mention
and rank in the census. But their crowning
worth will always be the imperishable re-
sults which cannot be measured by gold
and silver.					L. S.
	—Woman's Journal.


40		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMEN of New Orleans held a pub-
lic meeting in the Spring to devise methods
of disposing of stock for the contemplated
Southern Across-the-Continent Railroad,
which in the hands of the men seemed
likely to fall through. The Women of
Virginia contemplate a greater step. They
have formed a society for the purpose of
paying the State debt; have elected officers,
appointed committees, and hope to get
every woman of the State engaged.
	This is the usual way; men get into
trouble, then the women must help them
out. But we object to following this plan
any longer. It is after the fashion of wo-
men paying church debts, only on a larger
scale. The men have danced, now let them
pay the fiddler.—Ex.


OBITUARY.

	PRIMROSE CUNNINGHAM Shields, wife of
John Shields, was born at Renfrew, Renfrew-
shire, Scotland, Aug. 17th, 1805; was married
to Bro. Shields Aug. 16, 1827; was baptized
May 10th, 1842, died July 4th, 1878. She was
the mother of nine children, four of whom
are now living, and fifty-six grand-children,
and three great grand children.
	Her name will ever be held in honorable re-
membrance for her firm faith in the gospel,
for her integrity and uprightness, and her dili-
gent, earnest efforts for the good of all within
her reach. She bore her last sickness with the
greatest patience, and calmly fell asleep,
awaiting the morning of the resurrection.

		You've dune your duty here mither,
			As mair than me can tell;
		You've taught your bairns the road to gang
			By guan that gate y[-]rsel.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
second South Streets.
Special attention given to obstetrics and disease of 
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and 
Saleroom to
No. 40 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the fr[--]nds of Home Industry, and the [-]ublic gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of [-]ats mad[-] from
the la[-]e Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
a variety of Importe[-] Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at m[-]derate prices.
and Panams, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

[Column 2]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Bu[-]ldings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
	Res[--]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between South
and 1st South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style.  [-]ash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.         97 Kimball Block.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
73 MAIN ST., Basement of Taylor's [-]otel.
P. O. BOX 1089.

LADIES VISIT
TEASDEL'S
FOR
	Fans, Parasols, Flowers, Ribbons, Lawns
and Dress Good[-], knowing they get served the 
Be[-]t and 
CHEAPEST IN THE CITY.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[--] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest and Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of 
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE 
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys.
Yarns, Blankets[-] Shawls, H[-]siery, Waterproofs and 
Fancy Articles of all descr ptions.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.
NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF 
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards & Co's Drug
Stor[-], nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-o[-]erative Store.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of 
street
	Special study has been given to Obstetr[-]cs, diseases of 
Women, and 
DISEASLS of the EYE AND EAR.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and 
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly.  Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to 
us for catalogue and further information.
	CALDER & CARELESS.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of 
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in 
all its branches.  Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of 
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

