VOL. 7.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOV. 15, 1878.		No. 12.


[For the EXPONENT.
ALONE WITH MY CONSCIENCE.

	I sat alone with my conscience
		In a place where time had ceased,
	And we talked of my former-living,
		Where endless years increase.

	And I knew I should have to answer
		The questions it put to me:
	And to face the questions and answers
		Throughout an eternity.

	The ghosts of forgotten actions
		Came floating before my sight,
	And things I thought were dead things
		Were alive, with terrible might.

	And the vision of my past life
		Was an awful thing to face,
	Sitting alone with my conscience,
		In that solemn and silent place.

	And I thought of a far-away warning,
		Of a sorrow that was to be mine,
	In a land that was in the future;
		And now is the present time.

	And I thought of former reflections,
		What the judgment day would be,
	But sitting alone with my conscience
		Seemed judgment enough for me.

	And I wondered as to the future,
		In this land beyond the grave;
	But no one spake an answer,
		No one came forward to save.

	Then I felt that the future was present,
		And the present would never go by;
	For the awful weight of my past life
		Became an eternity.

	Then I woke from my timely dreaming,
		And the vision passed away;
	And I knew the far off warning
		Was a warning of yesterday.

	And I pray I may not forget it;
		In this land before the grave,
	That I may not call in the future,
		And no one come to save.

	And so I have learned a lesson
		I ought to have known before;
	And although I learned it dreaming,
		I hope to forget no more.
								MARY WRAY.
S. L. City, Sunday; Oct. 20, 1878.


[Column 1]
	[For the EXPONENT.
	THE INTEGRITY OF RUTH.

	What Christian is there of whatever
creed who has not admired the character of
Ruth? She is immortalized for her con-
stancy to her mother, Naomi, and for her
devotion to her husband's people.  The
Christian women all over the civilized
world hold her up as a model; and repre-
sentations of her beauty, her sweetness, her
grace, are given in many ways and forms;
and her strong affections so impress them-
selves upon womankind, that Ruth is really
one of the most striking illustrations to be
given characterizing Christian women.
But what if to day any woman should en-
act the part of Ruth literally, and insist as
she did, and as Naomi, her mother-in-law,
did, on the strict performance of the law
being carried out with reference to kinship;
why, the modern world would be horrified
and would want special legislation brought
to bear—because it would be "so degrad-
ing they could not possibly endure it any
longer."  Fortunately for Ruth, she died
thousands of years ago, for if she had lived
to day she would have been cast out as
evil; for in this highly enlightened Nine-
teenth century let no woman dare be as

[Column 2]
brave and heroic, or as self-sacrificing and
unselfish as Ruth, or they will be outcast
and despised by these LOVERS OF PURITY (?).
	We are told by Christian teachers in the
world to imitate the examples of the illus-
trious women of the Scriptures; but let
any one do so in reality, the finger of scorn
will be pointed at them.  What does it
mean? That these are women of a type
and class only to be cherished as a thing of
the past, but never re-produced?  Then
why are they models, and how are we to be
benefitted by their example, if we may not
imitate it?  Who does not know that Ruth
not only was anxious to become the wife of
Boaz, but that she, instructed by Naomi,
actually wooed him herself, and that in a
way and manner which to modern fashion-
able women would be entirely unwomanly
and lacking in modesty.  And yet all good
Christians reverence the character of Ruth;
they emblemize her in poetry, in prose, in
painting and in statuary.
	I would advise all those ladies who feel
so constrained to abolish "Plural Marriage"
to re-read the history of Ruth, Sarah, Han-
nah, Rachel, Leah, and the holy women
of old. I would call their attention to the
10th and 11th verses of the 3d chapter of
Ruth:
	"Blessed be thou of the Lord, my daugh-
ter; for thou hast shewed more kindness in
the latter end than in the beginning, inas-
much as thou followedst not young men,
whether poor, or rich.
	"And now, my daughter, fear not; I will
do to thee all that thou requirest; for all
the city of my people doth know that thou
art a virtuous woman."
	It is evident from what is written that
the whole conversation was not given, for
it seems Boaz comprehended that she de-
sired marriage with him.  How very in-
discreet was the widow Ruth, young and
fair and full of grace, and abounding in af-
fection as she was, to wash and anoint her-
self, and put on her raiment, and go and
lie down at the feet of a man and actually
propose to him that he take her to wife.
	Would not modern society be shocked by
the conduct of any young woman who did
the works of Ruth?  And don't you think
that Ruth should have been compelled to
go before the Grand Jury, or a Court of
Justice, and tell them why she washed and
anointed herself (it is apparent that she
had an object in doing so) and what sort of
raiment she put on when she went and laid
down at Boaz feet?
	However, the Lord blessed this peculiar
marriage, and through this lineage came
the Christ, the blessed Savior of the world.
	Does any one suppose that a man as true
and just and exact in observing the law of
kinship in regard to posterity would him-
self be willing to die without? Ruth's child
was hers and her mother Naomi's, if we
may be allowed to understand the Scrip-
tures for ourselves.  Ruth understood the
law of Celestial Marriage, and was willing
to be obedient thereunto, and she even con-
descended to marry an old man.  But we
must beware how we follow Ruth's exam-
ple, only we may talk of her integrity, her
purity, her constancy, and down to the end
of time we may quote her words so touch-
ing and beautiful, "Whither thou goest, I

[Column 3]
will go, and where thou lodgest I will lodge;
thy people shall be my people, and thy God
my God."  Rest assured, my Christian
friends, that Ruth knew Boaz to be a man
of God, a man bound by the law of God in
holy and solemn covenants to protect virtue
and chastity in woman; and I think that
all those who are so outraged by the prac-
tice of plural marriage among the Mor-
mons, had better cease holding up as
models the characters and works of holy
women of old.
	In ancient times, we are told, women
ministered in Temples, as Anna the proph-
etess who went not out day nor night.
Does any of our wise men and women
know what she was doing there?  What
business had women in the Temple?  In
fact, what business had those people to
build Temples at all? they must have "cost
enormous sums of money."
	And how dare men in these days to read
in the Bible of the great deeds and works
of women, those pure women with whom
angels conversed; women were judges and
prophetesses in those days.  Is it not a
wonder that their mouths were not stopped?
It is exceedingly lucky for them that they
lived so long ago, for had they dared to do
such things in these days they would have
been called to account.  But what of the
prophecy in the Book of Joel, 2d chap.,
28th verse;
	"And it shall come to pass afterwards
that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh;
and your sons and your daughters shall
prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams
and your young men shall see visions."
	Don't you think that Christian ministers
will be alarmed when the young women
begin to prophesy, and will it not be very
unwomanly, and entirely contrary to Mad-
ame Grundy?  I'm very much afraid it
will.  And the newspapers and the jour-
nals will write them up as very indecent
young women, because they have dared to
step out of their sphere; for certainly
prophesying is no more a part of house-
keeping than lecturing or preaching is.
	All honor and praise to Ruth for her in-
tegrity to the law of God, and honor and
praise to the noble women  to the law of God,
though persecution wax strong against
them and their names be cast out as evil.
	AUNT EM.


"QUICK AS LIGHTNING."

	Lightning travels nearly a million times
faster than thunder. The speed of light-
ning is so great that it would go 480 times
round the earth in a minute. Whereas the
sound of thunder would go scarcely thir-
teen miles in the same space of time.
Thunder will take a second to travel 380
yards, hence a popular method of approxi-
mating the distance of a thunder cloud is
as follows: Immediately you see the light-
ning flash, put your hand upon your pulse
and count how many times it beats before
you hear the thunder; if it beats six pulsa-
tions the storm is a mile off, if twelve pul-
sations it is two miles off, and so on. In
the case of elderly people five pulsations
would measure nearly the same period of
time as six in the case of young people.


90		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

		BRIGHAM CITY, ARIZONA,

						Oct. 6, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Relief Society of this place was or-
ganized June 23, 1878, by our worthy
Bishop, George Lake and Counselors, with
the following officers:

	Matilda P. Killian, President,
	Morilla Bates,	} Counselors,
	Martha Stratton,	}
	Mary A. Adams,	} Secretaries,
	Annie Woods,	}
	Mary K. Overson, Treasurer

	There were also eight Teachers chosen.
	The Society numbers twenty-nine mem-
bers. As we are living in the UNITED OR-
DER we have no poor to look after, but there
are many ways that we can do good; we
can look after the sick and take care of
them, and help one another in various ways.
We feel anxious to do something to for-
ward the work which we are engaged in.
It is a general time of health with us, for
which we feel truly grateful to our Heav-
enly Father, as well as for every other
blessing we receive from His bountiful
hand.
	Ever praying for the welfare of the
Daughters of Zion, we remain your sisters
in the Covenant of Truth,
			M. P. KILLIAN, Pres't.
			MARY A. ADAMS, Sec'y.

		BRIGHAM CITY, BOX ELDER Co.,
						Oct. 28, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Sorry to learn, through the kindness of
Mrs. Harriet Snow, that an account of the
Relief Society Stake Organization has not
reached your office, of which I forwarded a
copy immediately after the organization of
the same, which was effected May 14, 1878.
Bishop John Welch presented the follow-
ing names for officers of Relief Societies
of Box Elder Stake of Zion, who were
unanimously sustained:

	Harriet Snow, Presiden[-]
	Susanna Boothe,	} Counselors,
	Mary Stark,
	Mary E. Snow, Recording Secretary,
	Amy Madsen, Corresponding Secretary.

	Despite the reverses which the Lord in
his infinite wisdom and goodness sees fit to
send upon us, we are doing much good,
both spiritually and temporally, toward
the promotion of home industries. As a
public servant our President could not be
surpassed. In superior adaptability to the
work.
	Wishing success to the cause of truth, I
remain yours &c., T
			M. E. SNOW, Rec'g Sec'y.

				PEOA, Sept. 23d, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Financial Report of Peoa Relief Society
from its organization, Sept. 1[-]th, 1875, un-
til July 31st, 1878.

RECEIPTS.

Cash......................................$ 62 35
Store Orders.......................... 12 03
Merchandise.........................  45 41 ½
						 ————
		Total........................119 78 ½

[Column 2]
EXPENDITURES.

Arizona Mission..................    6 00
Silk Association...................    7 50
The Poor..............................  13 94
To Temple............................  20 00
Expenses of Society............  47 79 ½
						————
		Total......................  95 28 ½
Amouut due Society...........  24 48
Cash on hand......................    3 00
Merchandise on hand........  39 86
						————
		Balance on hand.. 57 34
Wheat stored for Zion........105 bu.
	It will be seen that the property has in-
creased $42 79 ½; this has been done by the
labor of the sisters.
		LYDIA MARCHANT, Pres't.
		HARRIET M. MARCHANT, Sec'y.

RELIEF SOCIETY QUARTERLY CON-
FERENCE.

MORGAN COUNTY STAKE.

	The first Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Societies of the Morgan Stake of Zion
convened on the 24th of October at ten A.
M., President Lydia Rich presiding.
There were on the stand Sisters Eliza R.
Snow and Elizabeth Davis from Salt Lake,
also the Presidents of the nine Societies in
the Stake. There were present of the pre-
siding priesthood, Pres. W. G. Smith and
Counselor S. Francis, Bishops Chas. Turner,
John Hopkins, John K. Hall. Although
the weather was unfavorable there was a
good attendance. The meeting was called
to order by Pres. Lydia Rich, and after the
singing and prayer she arose and stated the
object of our meeting.
	The statistical and financial report of the
nine different Societies in the Stake were
then read by the Secretary, which is as fol-
lows in total:

No. of members enrolled.......................284
Average attendance of members..........102
No. of meetings held...............................534
No. of EXPONENTS taken........................  34
Total of Receipts............................$2,015 10
Disbursements to the Poor...............234 68
To Temple........................................181 00
To Stake Meeting House.................   12 89
To Missionaries..............................     85 55
To Emigration................................  139 26
1 Relief Society House and Lot...    150 00
Amount in shares in Co-op Store.. 495 80
To Silk Association.......................   15 25
Outstanding debts.........................  112 60
To Sunday School........................    8 25
To Centennial Flag......................   11 55
Sundry Disbursements................    55 83
Total Disbursements...................   1,443 99
Cash and Store Orders on hand..  92 14
Sundries on hand........................  199 46
Property on hand........................   671 11
Value of Quilts made in Societies       234 60
Wheat in store........................436 bu.   41lbs.
	Sister Snow then addressed us in a very
encouraging and instructive manner, call-
ing our attention to a great many labors
and duties which we as Saints and daugh-
ters of the Most High, living in the eve-
ning of Time, have to perform. Said our
organization in the R. S. would be of great
benefit to us, if we would honor our posi-
tions. Wished all the Saints to step for-
ward and share in the blessings of the So-
ciety. She regretted to see that here, as
in many other places, the average attend-
ance is so small, and feared if a few did all
the work they would also receive all the

[Column 3]
reward. She made many valuable remarks
upon the principles of love and union,
which should exist in our midst, without
which we could not live the Gospel of Jesus
Christ, as that Gospel knit and bound to-
gether; spoke against the pernicious prac-
tice of evil speaking and backbiting, also
against listening to tale-bearers. Said we
must not look for perfection in each other,
but sustain each other and the priesthood
of God upon the earth; and if we did this
our enemies would be powerless in our
midst.
	Sister E. Davis said she was much pleased
to meet with the sisters in Conference ca-
pacity. Exhorted us to treasure up the
good instructions we had received and carry
them out in our lives, that we might rea-
lize a benefit from the same.
Pres. W. G. Smith made a few remarks
upon the organization and condition of the
Relief Societies, also upon the principle of
co-operation, which is a stepping-stone to
the United Order. Wished the sisters to
be united in their efforts to build up the
Kingdom of God. He referred to the in-
structions given us at our late General Con-
ference at Salt Lake by the presiding priest-
hood of the Church.
	Meeting then adjourned till 2 o'clock p.
m. The Choir sang, and benediction.
	At 2 p. m. meeting convened as per ad-
journment. Opened with singing and 
prayer. The Presidents of the nine Socie-
ties each gave a verbal report of the Socie-
ties over which they presided, which was
very satisfactory; after which Miss E. R.
Snow made a great many very interesting
remarks upon various subjects; said we
should spend our time usefully, and try to
strengthen and encourage each other by
good words and kind acts. Spoke of the
constant warfare between the flesh and the
spirit: Said Pres. Young gave the sisters
a mission, in connection with the brethren,
to lead out in Home Manufacture and the
Storing of grain; wished the sisters of this
County to make themselves eminent in
some particular branch of industry; recom-
mended us to make all the hats and bonnets
necessary for our use, and wished them
made beautiful; suggested that the means
thus saved be spent in purchasing machin-
ery. She bore a faithful testimony to the
truth and divinity of Celestial Marriage;
said she was very thankful that she could
truly say she had never utttered a word
against it. She exhorted us all to be hum-
ble and faithful, and always keep the chan-
nel of communication open between us and
our Heavenly Father.
	Remarks were then made by Mrs. E.
Davis, Bishop Turner, Counselor Francis
and Pres. Lydia Rich. Conference was
then adjourned for three months. Singing
and benediction.
			H. CORDELIA SMITH, Sec'y.

Littleton, Sept. 8, 1878.


TRUE joy is a serene and sober emotion;
and they are miserably wrong who take
laughing for rejoicing. The seat of it is
within, and there is no cheerfulness like
the resolution of a brave mind.

	PERFECT sincerity is the result of a deep
inward order, in which the true relations of
things are grasped so firmly that our words,
our silence, and everything else which
goes to make up our intercourse with each
other, fall into their right places without an
effort.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		91


SOMETIME.

Sometime, when all life's lessons have been learned,
	And suns and stars for evermore have set,
The things which our weak judgments here have spurned,
	The things o'er which we grieved with lashes wet,
Will flash before us, and life's dark night,
	As stars shine most in deeper tints of blue
And we shall see how all God's plans were right,
	And what most seemed reproof was love most true!

And we shall see how, while we frown and sigh,
	God's plans go on as best for you and me—
How, when we called, He heeded not our cry,
	Because His wisdom to the end could see;
And e'en as prudent parents disallow
	Too much of sweet to craving babyhood,
So God; perhaps, is keeping from us now
Life's sweetest things because it seemeth good.

And if, sometimes, commingled with life's wine,
	We find the wormwood, and rebel and shrink,
Be sure a wiser hand than yours, or mine,
	Pours out this potion for our lips to drink;
And if some friend we love is lying low,
	And human kisses cannot reach his face,
Oh, do not blame the loving Father so,
	But wear your sorrow with obedient grace!

And you shall shortly know that lengthened breath,
	Is not the sweetest gift God sends His friend,
And that sometimes the sable pall of death
	Conceals the fairest boon His love can send;
If we could push ajar the gates of life,
	And stand within, and all God's working see,
We could interpret all this doubt and strife,
	And for each mystery could find a key.

But not to-day. Then be content, poor heart!
	God's plans, like lilies, pure and white unfold;
We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart,
	Time will reveal the calyxes of gold;
And if through patient toil, we reach the land
	Where tired feet with sandals loosed may rest,
Where we shall clearly know and understand,
	I think that we will say, "God knew the best."
										—SELECTED.


[Column 1]
A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

CONTINUED.

	In the Fall of 1838 we left Kirtland, and
with what we considered necessary for our
immediate wants we commenced our jour-
ney to Far West. Our family then con-
sisted of six children, the two youngest
being very delicate in health. My eldest
son was then fifteen years of age. While
we were on our way, a report reached us
that the Saints in Missouri were being
driven, mobbed and persecuted in a most
shocking and terrible manner; we were
careful to investigate the matter, in order
to ascertain its truth. We went on to St.
Louis and waited there until we could ob-
tain the facts in relation to the matter,
which we soon learned were most start-
lingly true. We considered it safest to go
over into Illinois to spend the winter, and
decided upon Carrolton Greene Co., Illinois.
Here I remained with my children alone,
while my husband returned to Kirtland to
settle some business and wait further orders
from the Prophet Joseph. We were in-
formed the goods we had sent up to Mis-
souri were thrown into the street, and the
store burnt to the ground. My eldest son
taught school while we remained there,
and as the persecution was at that time
most extreme, we kept quiet in regard to
religion. We were kindly treated, but
more particularly by two families who were
our near neighbors. In the Spring my
husband returned, and shortly after, accom-
panied by my eldest son, went up to Com-
merce, since called Nauvoo. At that place
they found that the Prophet Joseph and
many others of the Saints had settled and
commenced to re-organize and sustain each
other and the doctrines in which they be-
lieved. Joseph then told my husband to
return to his family and as quickly as prac-
ticable join the Saints there. Meantime a

[Column 2]
man named Bellows, who had formerly
known my husband in Kirtland, recognized
us as the Mormon Bishop's family, and de-
termined to have us mobbed and driven
from the town; but those two families who
had all the time befriended us, offered to
render us assistance in getting away, by
crossing the river in the night. So in a
neighborhood where we had been looked
upon with the greatest respect, we were
treated like outlaws, and compelled to flee
for safety. My husband and son returned
in time to cross the river with us; when we
reached the opposite bank and felt compara-
tively safe from our immediate enemies, I
shall never forget my husband's taking off
his hat, wiping the perspiration from his
brow, and thanking God for our deliver-
ance. Strange how trifling incidents like
these sometimes leave indelible impres-
sions upon the memory which can never be
effaced. From there we went up the river
to Quincy, Illinois, where several families
of the Saints who had been driven from
Missouri were living; among these was the
family of Titus Billings, one of our nearest
neighbors in Kirtland; his wife was the
first woman baptized in Kirtland, and is
still living. We found many other friends
and their families. We remained in Quincy
during the winter, and passed the time
rather pleasantly; my eldest son was fond
of music, and so were the Billings' boys,
and they used to go out together to play
for parties, and thus rendered some assist-
ance in obtaining a living, for we had left
our means in Kirtland.
	Early in the Spring of 1840 we went up
to Commerce, as the upper portion of the
city of Nauvoo continued to be called. We
rented a house belonging to Hiram Kim-
ball, whose widow and children are resi-
dents of this city. Here we were all sick
with ague, chills and fever, and were only
just barely able to crawl around and wait
upon each other. Under these trying cir-
cumstances my ninth child was born. Jo-
seph, upon visiting us and seeing our
change of circumstances, urged us at once
to come and share his accommodations. We
felt the climate, the water, and the priva-
tions we were enduring could not much
longer be borne; therefore we availed our-
selves of this proposal and went to live in
the Prophet Joseph's yard in a small cot-
tage; we soon recruited in health, and the
children became more like themselves.
My husband was employed in a store Joseph
had built and fitted up with such goods as
the people were in actual need of.
	One day while coming out of the house
into the yard the remembrance of a proph-
ecy Joseph Smith had made to me, while
living in our house in Kirtland, flashed
through my mind like an electric shock;
it was this: that even as we had done by
him, in opening our doors to him and his
family when he was without a home; even
so should we in the future be received by
him into his house. We afterwards moved
up stairs over the brick store, as it was des-
ignated. It was during our residence in
the brick store that the Relief Society was
organized, March 17, 1842, and I was chos-
en Counselor to the President of the Soci-
ety, Mrs. Emma Smith. In this work I
took the greatest interest, for I realized in
some degree its importance, and the need
of such an organization. I was also or-
dained and set apart under the hand of
Joseph Smith the Prophet to administer to
the sick and comfort the sorrowful. Sev-
eral other sisters were also ordained and
set apart to administer in these holy ordi-
nances. The Relief Society then was
small compared to its numbers now, but

[Column 3]
the Prophet foretold great things concern-
ing the future of this organization, many
of which I have lived to see fulfilled; but
there are many things which yet remain to
to be fulfilled in the future of which he
prophesied, that are great and glorious;
and I rejoice in the contemplation of these
things daily, feeling that the promises are
sure to be verified in the future as they
have been in the past. I trust the sisters
who are now laboring in the interest of
Relief Societies in Zion realize the import-
ance attached to the work, and comprehend
that upon them a great responsibility rests
as mothers in Israel. President Joseph
Smith had great faith in the sisters' labors,
and ever sought to encourage them in the
performance of the duties which pertained
to these Societies, which he said were not
only for benevolent purposes and spiritual
improvement, but were actually to save
souls. And my testimony to my sisters is
that I have seen many demonstrations of
the power and blessing of God through the
administration of the sisters, but they
should be ever humble, for through great
humility comes the blessing. The Lord re-
members His daughters and owns and ac-
knowledges, in a perceptible manner, those
who are striving to be faithful. I could
say much to my sisters on this subject, for
it is one in which I am deeply interested.
I have been a living witness to the trials,
sacrifices, patience and endurance of thou-
sands of them, and my heart goes out to all
those who are seeking to walk the narrow
way and keep fast hold of the iron rod.
The Father has great blessings in store for
His daughters; fear not, my sisters; but
trust in God, live your religion and teach
it to your children.

To be continued.


ESTIMATING MEASURES.

	It is often useful to have a few approxi-
mate data to deduce weights and measures
from. Here is a corrected table, which,
however, does not aim at great accuracy,
but may serve to make a rough estimate
when it is necessary to reduce measures:
	"A pint of water weighs nearly one pound
and is equal to about twenty-seven cubic
inches, or a square-box three inches long,
three inches wide, and three inches deep.
	A quart of water weighs nearly two
pounds, and is equal to a square box of
about four by four inches and three and
one-half inches deep.
	A gallon of water weighs from eight to
ten pounds, according to the size of the
gallon, and is equal to a box six by six
inches square, and six, seven, or seven and
a half inches deep.
	A cubic foot of water weighs nearly six[-]y-
three pounds (more correctly sixty-two and
a half pounds) and contains from seven to
eight gallons, according to the kind of gal-
lons used.
	A peck is equal to a box eight by eight
square and eight inches deep.
	A bushel almost fills a box twelve by
twelve inches square and twenty-four
inches deep, or two cubic feet.
	A barrel of water almost fills a box two
by two feet square and one and a half feet
deep, or six cubic feet.
	Petroleum barrels contain forty gallons,
or nearly five cubic feet.—Manufacturer
and Builder.


THE future destiny of a child is always
the work of the mother.


92		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Pablished semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. NOV. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]

THE NEW CRUSADE.

THERE is much agitation at the present time
here in Utah, on the subject of plural marriage.
Those who oppose it are seeking to strengthen
their forces and sound a loud trump of alarm
all over the United States, calling upon all
Christian men and women to join them in
rooting up this terrible growing evil, which
Mormons have dared to plant on American
soil.
	When men and women enter upon a crusade
it should be with sober thought and mature
reflection. No wise man or woman can say to
the contrary. These opposers of Mormon prin-
ciples feel that they are outraged by the prac-
tice which they so loathe and abhor, and they
have risen up in their might now to wipe out
from the face of this fair land the monster—
	What proof have they that God is displeased
with this principle, or its practice? If they are
the followers of Christ they want God on their
side. "Man proposes but God disposes" is one
of the truisms which daily experience attests
to. This people called, or mis-called Mormons,
came here to this desert land a mere handful as
it were, a band of: tugitives, compelled to brave
the perils of the wilderness, or renounce their
peculiar faith. They had no wealth, scarce
the bare necessities of life; to repeat the story
of their poverty and hardships all bravely en-
dured for the sake of their faith, were only to
harrow up in thousands of hearts, griefs and
miseries now buried in the archives of the
past; but the Lord has blessed this people in
these valleys far-away from civilization, and
they have increased in numbers; and prosperity
has crowned the labors of their hands and brain.
Through their industry and diligence
many have been brought from foreign
lands, when the hand of the oppressor
is heavy upon the poor, to "America
the home of the free and the brave." Has any
other people the same record? No! During all
these years the Latter-day Saints have con-
tinued in the practise of plural marriage? And
where are the proofs of the Almighty's displea-
sure? Has He not visibly interposed in be-
half of this people when famine and war stared
them in the face? If the people were so wicked,
it is strange that God should have so wonder-
fully prospered their efforts to build up and
make pleasant the waste places, until the stran-
ger marvels at the success of this poor, outcast,
despised people.
	Do you realize, you who are so loud in de-
nouncing the institutions of the Mormons, that
it is just possible that God may have spoken to
this people, and if so what are you doing?
Weigh well the consequences and think whe-
ther you are prepared to answer for all the mis-
ery and suffering you are invoking upon a
peaceful, happy people who feel they are con-
scientiously living in obedience to a divine law.

[Column 2]
O, Christian women, let it not be said of you,
that you violate the sacred law of human
kindness, by aiding or abetting in a crusade
against your Mormon sisters. Many of those
engaged in the crusade have once been mem-
bers of the same fraternity—they have borne
strong testimonies to the truth of the Gospel,
and the graves of those they loved are here in
Zion; their relatives and friends who died in
the faith, against which they are now arrayed.
	Why should you seek to oppress, or make
more heavy the burdens of life for any sister,
or brother? Who constituted you judges? You
worship God here in freedom and seek to ad-
vance your own individual religions interests;
does anybody coerce you, or hinder you in the
free exercise of social or religious freedom? Why
do you desire to re-model Mormon society?
Have you a system or code of social laws to in-
troduce that will dry up the fountains of
iniquity in the world? If you have
then indeed your mission is an
essential and timely one, and God speed such
a work. The Mormons are in their way solv-
ing, a problem, you may call it experimenting,
it is God's method, and one that has been intr[-]-
duced in other ages of the world. The Lord
says "He delights in the chastity of women,"
have you some balm to offer for the woes of
those outraged and oppressed by men; some
sure path by which they may return into the
presence of their Creator, if you have, then
help them, for they are sorely in need of succor.
The wrongs of women betrayed and abandoned
are crying from the thousand cities of the
world. The crimes of which these poor de-
fenceless women are accused, are crimes which
must be answered before God by their pitiless
seducers and betrayers. Ask Congress to make,
or devise some method by which women may
be protected and avenged for wrongs com-
mitted against their most sacred feelings,
their virtue and their honor; beseech
them to provide for the neglected
progeny which swarm the cities of the
United States, and growing up in infamy and
crime are filling the prisons with criminals.
	The desire of the marital relationship be-
tween man and woman is for the perpetuation
of their own existences in posterity. This is
lawful and proper, and with this God is pleased
and thus has he commanded, "Multiply and re-
plenish the earth." But what is the condition
of the world to-day? Every one acquainted
with statistics of crime knows that all sorts of
unholy means are being used to destroy instead
of propagate human life. These are the things
that demand attention. These are the evils of
modern society, not plural marriage. Here is
labor for the million; lift up the fallen, com-
fort the sorrowing, and let Mormon women
alone; for rest assured they know how to take
care of themselves and their children, born
in holy covenants.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRESIDENT JOSEPH Young, Sen., has lately
issued a neat little pamphlet of sixteen pages,
entitled "History of the Organization of the
Seventies." It is "embellished with a likeness
of Joseph Smith the Prophet and a view of the
Kirtland Temple." It contains several items
of interest connected with the history of the
Church, and the "names of the Presidents and
Members of the First and Second Quorums of
Seventies, ordained under the hands of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his two Counselors,
Sidney Rigdon and Oliver Cowdery, on Feb.
28, 1835, in the town of Kirtland, Geauga Co.,
Ohio." Enoch and His City is the subject of
one Chapter. A very excellent article on

[Column 2]
"Vocal Music," and the book closes with a song
and chorus expressing something of the mis-
sion of the Elders in these last days.

	THE GENERAL Retrenchment Meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
p. m., was one of considerable interest. There
was a goodly number of representative ladies
in the stand and on the platform. Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne presiding. There were present
by invitation Miss Losee, Vice-President of the
National Woman's Christian Temperance
Union, and her co-worker in her labors Mrs.
Langdon; these two ladies are from New York
City; Rev. Mrs. McEldowny of Salt Lake City
was also present. After the exercises of sing
ing, prayer, minntes. of the previous meeting
and minutes of Junior Associations were over,
Miss Mary Freeze, a little girl about eleven
years of age, read the minutes of the Primary
Association of the Eleventh Ward. This is
quite a new feature of interest in these meet-
ings. Mrs. President Horne then arose and
presented the subject of Plural Marriage, that
being a topic much ventilated at the present
time by those who oppose it. She then pro-
ceeded to make some remarks upon the subject
herself, giving her ideas, and items of her own
experience in general terms, bearing a strong
testimony to its truth. The subject was fol-
lowed out by Mrs. Zina D. Young and Mrs. E.
B. Wells, who each after her own manner spoke
at some length on the subject, giving items of
experiences in the Church, remniscences from
the earlier days and times of poverty and wan-
derings of the Saints, also of the oppression
and persecution this people had suffered for
the sake of their religion; of the glorious fu-
ture there was in store for those who remained
faithful.
	Mrs. Pres. Horne then invited the strangers
present to speak; Miss Losee responded in a
few words, as the time was far advanced. She
said she was here in the interest of the Na-
tional Woman's Christian Temperance Union,
to labor for the interests of Temperance, and
would lecture on Thursday, the 14th, at 3
o'clock p. m., at Independence Hall. After-
wards the congregation arose and sung part of
the hymn "The Spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing." Prayer by Coun. E. Howard.
	MASS MEETING,—A mass meeting of the
women of Utah is called to convene at the
Theatre, Salt Lake City, Saturday, Nov. 16, at
2 p. m., to protest against the misrepresenta-
tion and falsehood now being circulated, with
a view to arouse public indignation against our
people; and to declare our sentiments upon the
subjects at present being agitated. A general
attendance of all women interested is desired.

					ZINA D. YOUNG,
					M. ISABELLA HORNE,
					EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	THE ANNUAL Grain meeting, which was to
be held on Saturday, Nov. 16, is postponed until
Saturday, 23, on account of the Mass Meeting
in the Theatre. This will give the sisters a
little more time to make out their reports, and
we hope to hear from all parts of the Territory
about grain and granaries.


PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE.

								FEB. 8, 1878.
DEAR SISTER: C—:
	My husba[-]d tells me you would be pleased
to receive a letter from me, if I felt like writ-
ing to you. I assure you I felt the same
towards you, but hearing you were very ill, I
knew you could not write so thought I would
send you a few lines. I sincerely hope you are


better, and will continue to improve until you
regain perfect health; for all the wealth and
all the pleasure that can be obtained in this
world cannot be enjoyed without health. The
past few months you have had to meet things
calculated to try, harass and perplex you, but
then you know there is a promise to all those
who put their trust in God, and that is this:
"As thy day is, so shall thy strength be." We
know that this promise is true, for we have
proved it; therefore it gives us confidence to
trust in Him Who has said not one hair of our
head shall fall unnoticed by His all-seeing eye.
I wish I could see you, for there are many
things I would like to talk about that I hardly
know how to put in writing.
	Dear sister, what shall I say to give you one
word of comfort in your separation from M—?
I will not say in your loss of her, for that would
not be correct, for you are not losing her; she
is only leaving your home in exchange for
one of her own, thereby gaining instead of
losing one. You and I with many more thou-
sands before us have trod in the same path,
and although we may have thought we could
not love any one better than father and mother
(nor can we in that sacred, holy love with
which we enshrine these dear ones, and more
especially when they are gone to rest and we
cannot see or hear them), but as time rolls
along there is a call, one that has been im-
planted in our natures by our Heavenly Parents
for a great and wise purpose, and a nearer and
closer tie bids us leave the home of our child-
hood. Is it to sever the tie between parents
and children? No! verily no! but to fulfill the
great command of God, and to form new ties
of our own as links in the chain that shall
bind family to family, friends to friends, till
the great chain is completed, link by link, and
we are united in one eternal bond, as one great
family in that of our great Father and God.
	Before I conclude my letter I will say that
you shall have my prayers, that you may have
strength to bear your separation; and may God
bless you. And I would ask for your faith and
prayers, that we may be worthy the trust com-
mitted to our charge; I say charge, because I
know that much depends on the woman as
well as the man. And may the bond of love
and friendship increase between us every year
that we live. Give my love to M—— and all
your family, and accept much for yourself.
	From your friend and sister,
								R. F. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		93


[Column 1]
ANTI-POLYGAMY MEETING.

	A meeting of ladies opposed to plural mar-
riage was held in the Independence Hall in
this city Nov. 7, the object being to take ac-
tive measures to arouse public sentiment
against its practice, and to memorialize Con-
gress to make effective the Anti-Polygamy law
of 1862. The meeting was called to order by
Mrs. M. M. Bane; Mrs. S. A. Cook was chosen
Chairman, and Mrs. M. M. Bane, Secretary.
Mrs. Bane in a dignified and business-like
manner stated the object of the meeting. She
informed the audience, also, that a preliminary
meeting had previously been held and a com-
mittee appointed to draft resolutions and mark
out a direct course of action. The meeting
was mostly devoted to business, though some
sentiments were expressed by those who took
part in the proceedings relative to the utter
horror and disg[-]st they felt on the subject of
plural marriage. The contagion was in the
air, and so forth, and we could not help feeling
that in all the wide world there might possi-
bly be a place more genial to them, and if they

[Column 2]
were so thoroughly disgusted with the social
relation here, they would perhaps be able to
breathe more freely somewhere else. Miss
Losee, the Vice-President of the National
Woman's Christian Temperance Union, made
a short speech, and expressed herself very
forcibly in regard to plural marriage, etc. But
as Mi[-]s Losee is a good Christian, and believes
in the Scriptures, we would advise her to cease
quoting from the Old Testament, as the women
mentioned there were nearly all in plural mar-
riage, and Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses and
all the old prophets, chosen men of God, were
all polygamists. It is a wonder that our Chris-
tian friends are not contaminated by having
the Old Testament in their houses. But like
many of the wise and learned of the world
these ladies know how to tear down society, but
can they build up, have they a better way? If
so, will they be charitable and show it to us?
Can they refer us to any of the Eastern cities
where society is in a better condition than
here in Salt Lake? Miss Reed read the address
we publish below, which speaks for itself, as
also does the circular to the clergy and the
memorial to Congress.

				AN ADDRESS.

	TERRITORY OF UTAH, SALT LAKE CITY,
						November 7th, 1878.

To Mrs. Rutherford B. Hayes and the Women
	of the United States:

	It is more than 30 years since polygamy was
planted on the shores of Great Salt Lake. Dur-
ing these years, Congress has utterly failed to
enact efficient or enforce existing laws for the
abolition of this great crime, and we believe
that more of these unlawful and unhallowed
alliances have been consummated the past
year than ever before in the history of the
Mormon Church. The Endowment Houses,
under the name of Temples, are being erected
in different parts of the Territory, costing mil-
lions. It is impossible to ascertain the exact
number of polygamous marriages, for they are
consecrated in these Endowment Houses, an
institution no Gentile is permitted to enter,
and the brotherhood and sisterhood are sealed
and bound with oaths so strong that even apos-
tates will not reveal them, and to maintain
which witnesses on the witness stand unblush-
ingly perjure themselves and on the jury vio-
late all considerations of oath and duty. Con-
sidering all our surroundings, polygamy has
never taken such a degrading and debasing
form, in any nation or among any people, above
the condition of barbarians, as in Utah. It is
degrading to man and woman, a curse to chil-
dren, and destructive to the sacred relation of
family, upon which the civilization of nations
depends, and there are things that cannot be
repeated or printed that reduces the system to
the lowest form of indecency. That it should
be practiced in the name and under the cloak
of religion, that an apostle, a polygamist with
four acknowledged wives, is permitted to sit
in Congress, only adds to the enormity of the
crime and makes it more revolting to our com-
mon Christian principles.
	Our Legislature is composed almost entirely
of polygamists and members of the Mormon
priesthood, and they have thrown around
polygamy every possible legislative safe-guard
in their power; and the right of dower has been
abolished to break down the distinction between
the lawful wife and concubine.
	The Mormons are rapidly extending their
settlements into Arizona, Idaho, New Mexico
and Wyoming. They have the balance of
power in two territories, and are, without
doubt, plotting for it in others.

[Column 3]
	We call upon the Christian women of the
United States to join us in urging Congress to
empower its courts to arrest the further pro-
gress of this evil and to delay the admittance
of Utah into statehood until this is accom-
plished; and we ask you to circulate and pub-
lish our appeal in order to arouse public senti-
ment, which should be against an abomina-
tion that peculiarly oppresses and stigmatizes
woman. It is our purpose to ask names to a
petition designed for Congress, and we hope,
also, that every minister of the Gospel will
commend us to the women of his congregation,
and that all Christian associations will do what
they can to obtain signatures.
	With the cordial co-operation and concen-
trated action of the Christian women of our
land, we may confidently hope that the great
sin of polygamy may be abolished.
	It was explained as the intention to circulate
copies of the above address throughout all the
United States. The following petition was
then read, which is also to be scattered broad-
cast throughout the land and signatures there-
to solicited, the object of the petition being
embraced within itself.

				A MEMORIAL.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of
	the U. S. A.

	We, the undersigned, women of Utah, pray
your honorable body to enact such legislation
as will make effective the anti-polygamy law
of 1862.

	After the adoption of this, a circular letter
was read by Mrs. Col. Froiseth, which it is the
intention to send to every minister in the
United States, the letter to be accompanied by
copies of the address and petition. Here is the
letter:

	CIRCULAR LETTER TO THE CLERGY.

	Sir—At a mass meeting of the ladies of Salt
Lake City opposed to polygamy, held Novem-
7th, 1878, to take some action for its suppres-
sion, the enclosed address to Mrs. Hayes and
the women of the United States and form of
petition were ad[-]pted. A committee was then
appointed to distribute the address and petition,
and instructed to forward it to every clergy-
man, or other person likely to feel an interest
in the movement, in the United States, with
an urgent request that he read the address, or
cause it to be read to his people and have the
petition presented among the ladies for signa-
tures, the same, upon being signed to be given
to the member of your congressional district
for presentation to Congress. In accordance
with its instructions the committee enclose a
copy of the address and petition to you and
earnestly request you to present them as above
suggested, and with as little delay as possible,
the committee desiring the petitions to be pre-
sented to the coming session of Congress.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at the Sulphur Springs in Ogden
Cafion, Oct. 15th, 1878, of lung fever, after an
illness of five weeks, Miss Caroline Amanda
Winslow, aged 14 years, 2 months and 7 days,
beloved and only daughter of John H. and
Caroline Marchant Winslow, of Morgan City,
Morgan Co., U. T. Deceased was the Organist
for the Choir and a teacher in the North Mor-
gan Sunday School, and as such she was punc-
tual and ever ready to perform the duties as-
signed her. "Blessed are they that die in the
Lord."—[Millennial Star please copy.].


94		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
					[For the EXPONENT.
		"A" PEN PICTURE.

	BY ONE OF NATURE'S DAUGHTERS.

	Let us stand in this "gateway to the
Ocean," with our faces to the East to get
a good view of our picture, and with all
Nature welcome the king of day this beau-
tiful morning; with his smiles and kisses
for our sunny South. Now behold as grand
a scene as ever blessed the eye of art. The
grand old mountains, which almost sur-
round the valley, shall be the picture-frame.
This gateway is like a paved street leading
to the moss and shell enchanted shore of
the peaceful Pacific, fifty miles away, whose
soothing, invigorating breath fans into life
and strength the herbage on hill and plain,
which gives pasturage to numberless flocks
and herds that were once the only known
wealth of the "Golden State." But our
picture frame is not yet sufficiently admired.
That highest peak in the centre is 11,500
feet above the level of the sea. How like
a true monarch he wears his glittering
crown of ice and snow perpetually! And
see the bride-vail-like clouds of mist but
half screen his royal green mantle of pine,
laurel and hemlock! Look at the singing
brooklets come skipping and leaping from
cliff to precipice, bringing pure cold water
to the savage grizzly bear and California
lion, as well as the graceful antelope and
gentle deer, while the mountain dove and
lark keep time to the music they make. O
how glorious are the halls of Nature when
all her children bow in gratitude to the
Giver of every good!
	But let us turn to the works of man.
See the giant centennarian of the forest
tremble and fall by his power; how soon
the noble tree becomes lumber, ready to be
hauled to the valley for the uses of civiliza-
tion. And the gold, marble, granite, and
diamond splendor, acknowledging the sun's
mighty power, is also fast being called into
usefulness by the talent and energy of man.
Now let the eye rest half way down the
mountain side, at the curious springs of
hot, warm and cold water, whose medical
virtues are far-famed; also the extensive
apiaries, where the industrious bee thrives
wonderfully, often filling caves and crevices
in the rocks with the sweet food they
gather from wild shrubs, vines and flowers
nearly all the year.
	But to awaken some fine bright morning
up there and look down on the valley when
enshrouded in fog, causes the most lone-
some feelings; were it not so romantic one
would become sad to view a Phantom-sea,
who's restless waves seem dashing, fretting,
and worrying some fated object beneath
their feathery surface, where reason and
knowledge tell us happy homes and lovely
scenery fill every nook of a beautiful ever-
green valley.
	Now let us look at the oldest marks of
civilization—the ruins of the "Old Mis-
sion," San Bernardine; 'tis but an old
adobie wall now, but could it speak of the
past hundred years, what tales of joy, sor-
row, love and hate we should listen to.
Beautiful orange groves now shade the last
resting place of the once brave warrior and
his dusky mate, once the wild free children
of the deserts, who were tamed and taught
to bow the knee and worship "Our Father
in Heaven," by the Spanish Priests, or
Catholic Fathers. And though lovely gar-
dens of ever-blooming flowers and vast
vineyards hide all the old landmarks and
trails of the Indian, tradition tells of the

[Column 2]
great good works done by the Old Missions.
There are yet some few in this part of the
State whose old rusty-tongued bells call the
faithful to late and early prayers, and as we
listen we seem to hear the gentle zephyrs
whispering and sighing among the fruit
and foliage of the olive, fig and palm, over
the purity and simplicity of the past of this
much-favored spot, which is nearly lost by
the progress of civilization. The "Steam
horse" and fancy phaeton now take the
places of the low, wooden-wheeled cart and
half-tamed ox, with yoke lashed with raw-
hide across his horns. The hollow, old-
fashioned STONE is seldom seen where good
flour mills are almost in sound of every
ranchero. The magic wire brings the news
of the day from the ends of the earth, and
the swift-footed messenger of the long ago
can lounge in the shade of "his own vine
and fig tree." The iron band binds us with
our sister counties, states and countries.
The Church steeple and Court House dome
tower above the graceful shade trees, and
help to remind us where we can seek truth
and justice. Here Old Winter is feeble
and lazy, with lungs too weak to blow the
laughing leaves off the tired, willing stem;
and though his head is green and brown
instead of white, he has not power to bid
the sweet flowers and noisy birds go to
sleep, and so they bud on in sweetness and
sing on in beauteous bowers, in harmony
with the hundreds of artesian fountains
which dance in musical gratitude for the
blessings of sunlight. And when the
young prince, Spring, takes the green crown
from Winter's brow, he rules but imper-
fectly, for the changeful face of Nature, all
tears and smiles at the same time, bewilders
his inexperienced brain, until the gay,
cheerful Queen Summer lends her assist-
ance, and with her mighty power of endur-
ance and industry, the golden grain fields
and bending orchards soon cause the bloom-
ing Queen to realize that her season of
power is over and she must resign the
reins of government into the hands of the
mature matron, Autumn, whose trium-
phant exaltation of gladness is celebrated
with the music of the horns of plenty,
which sound a joyous jubilee of gratitude
to the great Monarch of Nature's kingdom,
and Giver of all good; and though showers
of sadness darken the only void in the re-
gretful heart, the rainbow of hope prom-
ises a reward, and gives a cheering encour-
agement through every storm. For God is
"our merciful Father" to all the life, light
and goodness in this beautiful world.
							M. O. K.


[Column 1]
BEECHER ON GREENBACKS.

	The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher opened
the course of lectures, and entertainments
at the North Avenue Congregational
Church, Cambridge, last evening. His sub-
ject was "The Reign of the Common Peo-
ple," and the purpose was to show the
changes which the general spread of intel-
ligence has wrought in human thought and 
in the relations of men toward one another
and toward governments. Speaking of the
popular delusions which are now engross-
ing the public mind, he said that there was
none which would fade away sooner than
that which the greenback represents. Con-
tinuing on the same subject he said:—
	The idea that a government can create
money by simply stamping paper or leather
is a theory which may live for a day or two
or a season, but if there ever was anything
that would cure itself, that will. I am not
afraid of its ultimate results. I know that

[Column 2]
the people say boldly that it is the govern-
ment that determines the currency. What
is the currency? It is the means by which
a man can exchange one thing for another.
I cannot cut off the corner of my barn and
buy a pound of snuff. I cannot carry
around anything so bulky as an ox. I have
got to have something by which I can ex-
change one kind of property for another.
What should you select? You don't need
to select anything at all; you might as well
talk about selecting the kind of atmosphere
in which we shall live. There is one thing
about which the nations agree, and I don't 
know that they ever agreed on anything
else. There is one thing upon which they
are singularly united, upon which they
stand together, and have stood together for
5,000 years, and that is that gold and silver
shall be the medium by which property
shall be represented and exchanged. It is
not a question which has been determined
by governments at all. All the govern-
ments on earth might pass an edict that
gold shall not represent property and it 
will not make the least difference; or that
paper shall, and it would not make the 
least difference. It is one of those things
which have been determined by the suc-
cessive experiences of nations. For more
than five thousand years we have the ac-
tual record of the proportional value be-
tween gold and silver, varying a little with
time, but still about the same. Down
through thousands of years gold and silver
have been the same. Gold is gold every-
where. Five dollars in gold is the same
everywhere, and the man who has gold in
his hand can go anywhere and exchange it
for property.
	Paper is nothing but a representative of 
gold, used for the sake of convenience, as
property is too bulky for exchange. But
paper is nothing but a representative of
gold and silver, and it is just as good as
they are when it can command them; and 
it is good for nothing when it cannot. Cor-
nelius Vanderbilt went down to the bank
one day with a piece of paper in his fingers,
and he didn't seem to make much of it.
But it was a check for $3,000,000, the larg-
est that had ever been passed there. If he
had tried to pay the same amount in gold
he would have found it a pretty hard job to
carry it. Gold weighs a ton and a half to
$1,000,000, so that he would have had to 
carry nearly five tons. When commerce is
comparatively small gold and silver can be
transported from place to place, and are
convenient; but when commerce extends
it cannot be used conveniently. Suppose a
man in New York wants to pay half a mil-
lion dollars to a man in New Orleans. I
don't want to be suspicious, but I think
there are at least ten men between New
York and New Orleans who would steal it
if they got the chance. Silver weighs
thirteen tons to 1,000,000. They can be
easily handled in small transactions, but in
large ones we have paper as a commercial
contrivance. But your paper is good for
what you can exchange it for. If you can
exchange it for a house or a farm, it is good
for that. If it cannot be exchanged for
property, or for gold or for silver, what is it
good for? All gold and silver represent
property, all paper represents gold, or, silver,
and it ought to represent them definitely.
If you print a five dollar bill you must be
definite about what it represents, wheat, or 
cloth or gold. But it is merely five dollars,
and you offer it to a man and he says he
will not pay gold or silver for it, or you
offer it to the government and it says it will
not pay gold or silver for it, then its face


value goes down.  Why cannot the govern-
ment make paper money?  Because it can
do with a reality what it cannot do with a
sham. Government only regulates exist-
ing values, and in the case of paper it is
proposed not to regulate value but to give
it a value.  There is no government on
God's earth that can give value to paper.
They can say that paper shall be equivalent
to gold and redeemed in it; but no govern-
ment on earth can say that zero means
something.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE NEAR FUTURE.

	The scenes witnessed at Worcester dur-
ing the last week are significant.  The
time was when such displays would have
been impossible in this good old common-
wealth.  But our population is fast chang-
ing, and with the change of population has
come the change in manners and morals.
The class that dominated at Worcester
lately is likely at no very distant day to be
the ruling class in this State.  The power
which has been held by the honest yeomen
of the rural districts ever since the old
colonial days has passed into the hands of
the cities, and the cities are fast coming
into the control of the foreign masses that
are ruled and governed by a foreign priest-
hood.  The cities will rule the State in less
than ten years.  Who rule the cities now?
Who will rule the cities in ten years?  Ana-
lyze the vote of Boston for the answer.
Walk through Fall River, Lowell and Wor-
cester for the answer.  The foreign ele-
ments, combined with the irresponsible
part of the native population, will soon
have political supremacy.  They will rule
the cities.  Already it would be impossible
to elect a temperance man as may or of Bos-
ton.  No man go to the city hall unless he
is satisfactory to the liquor dealers and, a
considerable fraction of the criminal class.
Mayor Stott lost his election in Lowell be-
cause he was a temperance man.  If Mayor
Lindsey is re-elected in Fall River it will
be because he is satisfactory to the liquour
people.  All this kind of thing is signifi-
cant.  It opens to us a view of the future.
It tells us what we are sure to have when
the present order of things has ripened
more fully.  The vote on the Prohibitory
Bill last winter shows how things are work-
ing.  On that bill the vote was as follows:
Full vote............................................211.
For the bill..........................................93.
Against it...........................................118.
Absent.................................................29.
	The cities gave 77 votes against and 26
votes for the bill.  The towns gave 67 for
and 41 against it.  The vote of Boston was
38, against and 5 for it.  It is easy to see
where the trouble lies, and as easy to fore-
tell what the future is to be.  Self-preser-
vation requires a union of all the moral
and respectable elements, irrespective of
party lines. In city and State matters
party politics amount to little.  We may
not be near enough to the millennium to
expect an abandonment of party just yet;
but we must come to it soon, or this old
commonwealth will be ruled by the crimi-
nal classes of our cities.  There was a time
when George N. Briggs could be elected
Governor of Massachusetts.  It is doubtful
whether a man of his pure life, splendid
character and high moral views, could se-
cure an election now.  Christian patriotism
has something to do to watch the signs of
the times.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	UPPER KANAB, Oct. 18, 1878.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I have recently returned from a visit of
a month's duration to our Dixie; the cli-
mate there at this season is delightful.
	I enjoy myself excellently well when
circumstances are such that I can be liber-
ated for a time from our ranche home, in
visiting among the Saints and attending
the meetings of the sisters both old and
young. In my opinion, a great lack is
visible on the part of many mothers in re-
gard to the young.  Many of us surely can-
not realize the responsibilities that rest up-
on us, nor the bearing our influence has
upon our children for good or evil, or we
would shape our lives differently.  Every
mother in Zion should take and carfully
read the EXPONENT. October 1st is at
hand; "Women as Educators," "Woman's
Love," and "Memory and Observation" are
worth the price of the paper.  Extracts
from the teachings of Sister E. R. Snow
and other faithful workers are invaluable.
A vast amount of good is being done by
the EXPONENT.
	God bless you in your untiring zeal for
the welfare of Zion.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	E. B. COLEMAN.

	GARDEN CITY, RICH CO.,
	Oct. 13, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We have a most beautiful place here,
with an excellent view of the beautiful
Bear Lake; our city is situated on a rolling
plain, with the gently sloping hills sur-
rounding it on the south, west and north,
with a plenty of fine grass for stock.  Our
place is newly settled with about twenty
families, mostly young people.  The boys
have been energetic in getting out the
water; they have made a ditch about six
miles in length.  Some of those who moved
in last year have raised beautiful crops of
wheat, oats, corn, potatoes, cabbages, mel-
ons, cucumbers, squashes, pumpkins, and
almost every variety of vegetables and
garden plants that can be mentioned, and
we hope  the blessings of the Lord to
raise a plenty of fruit in a few years; Pres.
Rich says we shall if we are faithful.
	We have no Bishop here yet, we have a
Priest to take charge of the place; I hope
we will have the privilege of being organ-
ized into a branch, so we can have meet-
ings regularly.  And I hope we may have
a Relief Society; I have been a member of
one for ten years, and always loved our Re-
lief Society meetings in St. Charles; now
I miss them very much. It was also a 
member of the Y. L. M. I. A, and of the
Sabbath School.  Perhaps you can imagine
my lonely feelings in being absent from all
of those dear associations.  We hold meet-
ings once in a while, the Sabbath day seems
very long and lonely without them.
	We have a Post Office established here
now, and I hope to get my papers regu-
larly.  The EXPONENT is every a very wel-
come guest.  If every woman loved to
read it as well as I do, they would not
be without it; it helps to pass the Sabbath
day very pleasantly.
	May our Heavenly Father bless every
undertaking of the sisters in righteousness
is my desire.
	Your sister laborer in the covenant of
Christ,	PHEBE.


SHAKESPEARE'S WOMEN AT LOW'S
	OPERA HOUSE.

	During three days of the past week some
of them trod that stage.  Have they not
"touched us to finer issues" of thought and
feeling?
	For Portia came, with no self-seeking in
her great heart, with so little prejudice in
her clear brain that it certainly was not dis-
coverable by the most critical auditor.
	The master-poet knew, three hundred
years ago, how to draw the portraits of wo-
men, good and evil.  There the world has
learned to re-kindle its faith in the ideal;
there, too, it has studied the dangers that
beset the nature of woman and of man.
	The types are perpetual; else Shakspeare
would scarcely have copied them. The
women can always be found, if the search
be long enough:
	We are simply remarking that Portia's
sweet eloquence in behalf of justice. Isa-
bella's deep wisdom, and Rosalind's grace-
ful wit, fell freely upon our ears last week.
	One had the pleasant consciousness that
these ladies were not masquerading but
that out of the fulness of their hearts, of
their experience, of their insight, they
were speaking precious words of counsel.
	Of course Shakspeare did not define in
detail the tasks to which his women would
be called, as the centuries should unfold;
but with firm and delicate hand he showed
the capabilities that they possess.
	Portia, indeed, never read a paper upon
"Dress" before any Congress that we know
about, nor did she in her youth discover a
comet. Shakspeare does not predict that
after her head should be brilliant with a
crown of silver hair, she would delight a
large assembly by recounting her experi-
ences in watching an eclipse through a tele-
scope.  But had Portia's training and sur-
roundings been different, she would have
been very likely to do one of these things.
	As for Rosalind and Beatrice, theirs is
the wit that again and again "charms our
pained steps over the burning marl."
	Fortunately their light is never long
missing from any pilgrimage.
	And the heart of Cordelia, thank Hea-
van! beats near us whoever we are and
wherever we dwell.
	But it is inspiring to feel the combined
influence of these gifts and graces.  It is a
privilege to learn so many helpful lessons
at one time.
	It is true that the payment of an annual
fee, the endorsement of a member, and an
assent to the societies constitution, are not
sufficient talismans to enable a person to
immediately don all the virtues and doff all
the faults of womankind; but when we
consider the general tone of the sixth Con-
gress of women, we surely have cause for
satisfaction in the widening opportunities
which the Portias of every century find in
the wise and generous purposes which they
make those opportunities subserve.—Provi-
dence Journal.


IF self be denied for the good of others,
we receive immeasurably more than we be-
stow; we have as many fountains of happi-
ness as there are hearts and lives to whose
happiness we minister.
	KNOWLEDGE is a treasure at once price-
less and imperishable.  Strive above all
things to be rich in knowledge.  You get
more than the value of whatever you give
in exchange for learning.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

Exposure of Children to Cold.—We should say
that no child too young to walk or run should be
taken out when the external temperature is below,
fifty-eight degrees; that the rooms in which they
live and sleep should never be below fifty-eight
degrees and the day room should be three or four
degrees warmer. The practice of wheeling chil-
dren about in perambulators, sitting, or reclining
in one position without exercise, is particularly
harmful. We would earnestly appeal to mothers
to put aside all feelings of vanity, or what is
sometimes miscalled natural pride, and cover the
arms, neck and legs of their children as a simple
sanitary precaution. High frocks, long sleeves
and warm stockings should be worn out of doors;
hats which cover the head, and boots which keep
the feet as dry and warm as possible. On coming
in from our streets, nearly always damp, both
boots and stockings should be changed; and, if
the feet be cold, a warm foot-bath should be used
for a few minutes: The exquisite pain of chil-
blains could be saved to many children by this use
of hot water for hands and feet. We see that
flannel has yielded to merino, chiefly on account
of the greater convenience of ready-made under-
clothing; but there is nothing qual to flannel in
the property of preserving warmth.—British
Medical Journal.


TREES AND RAINFALL.—From some ob-
servations by M. Fautrat relative to the
comparatlve influence of leafy woods and
resinous woods on rain and the hygromet-
ric slate of the air, it appears that pine for-
ests have a much greater influence on the
hygrometric state than others; so that if the
vapors dissolved in the air were apparent
like frogs, we should see forests shrouded
in a large screen of moisture, and in the
case of resinous woods the envelope would
be more pronounced than in that of leafy
woods.  M. Fautrat also shows that pines
retain in their branches more than half of
the water which is poured upon them;
whereas leafy trees allow fifty eight per
centum of the precipitated water to reach
the surface of the ground. He suggests,
therefore, that in planting with a view to
oppose inundations, it would be advisable
to choose by preference resinous trees, as
offering a better covert.


[Column 1]
John Taylor, Pres't. Wm. Jennings, Vice-Pres't.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N,
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City.  All those who desire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time purchase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliab[-]e quality, at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders [-]o
WM. H. ROWE,
SUPERINTENDENT.

New Goods-for-the-Fall-and Winter 1878,

AN Immmense Stock of those cheap and durable white
and red, twilled and plain [-]LANNELS;
just received from the Provo Mills. Also Dress Flannels,
Waterproofs, Linseys, Blankets, Jeans, Yarns, Cloths,
Double, Single and Shoulder Shawls, Trunks, Brooms,
Tinware, Shoes, Dixie Cotton Batting, and other goods,
at the Commission House.
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

[Column 2]
The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner.  Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
	GEO. A. LUKE & CO.,
	Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City. 97 Kimball Block.

THEL AMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET.
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
	MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
AT 
TEASDEL'S

MRS. MUSSER
Will be pleased to see her friends at her
MILLINERY and NOTION STORE
South of the Old, Constitution Buildings,
East Temple Street.
	Professor Bell's Telephone, and Professor Edison's
Electric Pen, for multiplying le[-]ters and all kinds of
blanks are on exhibition.  No charge for explaining
their uses.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
	Special attent[-]n given to obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z.C.M.I.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between South
and 1st South Streets.
	Spec[-]al attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

TUNNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P O. BOX 1089.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-]f and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods.  Etc., Etc.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and 
Saleroom to 
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

[Column 3]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of 
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes.  Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes.  Country dealers,
please call.  Ladies' Hair work in all its branches.  Good
work guaranteed.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-operative Store.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of 
Women, and 
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to vist our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our 
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and 
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

DRIED APRICOTS.

THE HIGHEST MARKET PRICE
PAID AT
TEASDEL'S.

	Delivery Wagons will call, by leaving the Address
at Store.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of 
FANCY & STAPLE DRY [-]OODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
