Notes from the Field
Salt Lake Stake:
On the afternoon and evening of November 14, 1930, the Relief Society of the 17th Ward in the Salt Lake stake, held a bazaar with a program following. A one act play "The Spinsters' Convention," was put on by officers and members of the Relief Society. Other wards in attendance asked to have it presented, and it was the source of a great deal of praise and appreciation. The bazaar and program proved to be a great success financially as well as socially.
CAST OF THE SPINSTERS' CONVENTION, SALT LAKE STAKE
Kolob Stake:
Undoubtedly 1930 was a most unusual year, and from every quarter in our organization we received accounts of fine activities; some as stake functions, others as wards. From the Kolob stake a most excellent account was furnished of the testimonial honoring
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
the retiring officers of the Second Ward Relief Society—Mrs. Emily Sumsion Crandall, president; Mrs. Mahala Crandall Bringhurst, first counselor; Mrs. Sylvia Johnson Miner, second counselor; Mrs. Ada Bissell Harrison, secretary-treasurer. Sister Crandall had given 26 years of her life to Relief Society work. We review her activities, and those of her associates, with so much interest as they are typical of the scope and spirit of the Relief Society organization. These sisters gleaned wheat in the fields, and went from house to house to collect it. The finances of the organization were looked after with great care, and honestly and efficiently handled. Relief Society carried on its educational program through all the years. In addition to this the members cared for people of the ward when death came, and tenderly and properly laid the loved ones away. They have given all assistance possible to help the unfortunate, and to see that the members of the community did not want. They have always taught people to be able to take care of themselves. We quote from Sister Crandall's address at this time: "I have given every officer and every class leader, and every teacher a responsibility to carry, and they have carried their work well, with a spirit of love and loyal support. Relief Society work carries with it much responsibility. Sometimes we grow faint-hearted, but I have put my faith and every bit of power I had into my work, and did my part as best I could. The Lord was mindful of me, and gave me just what I needed to carry on. I thank him for it. Now I feel like a released missionary—I want to always keep the spirit of the Relief Society work."
Sharon Stake:
The president of the Sharon Stake Relief Society writes: "It is a pleasure to give a brief report of our stake work during the past year. We have a wonderful group of women in this stake, and they are ever ready to do all in their power to be of service to the great Relief Society cause. There are seven wards in the stake, and we completed our seven conferences just before the close of the year. We held our stake conference on November 23, 1930, at which time we put away a "Memory Box," to be opened at the end of fifty years. Each organization of the stake, both ward and stake, put away histories of the organization since the beginning of the stake, and some of the Relief Societies since its organization. The annual party given March 17, 1930, began our flower show project. The flower show was
169
held in August, and each ward had a wonderful display. Timpanogos Ward carried first honors, Sharon and Pleasant View Wards tying for second honors, and Edgemont Ward receiving third, besides the splendid individual exhibits in different varieties of flowers. Prizes were given for the best flowers of the following varieties: Roses, Asters, Marigolds, Zinnia, Gladiola, Dahlia and Petunia. "Our stake is building a new administration and seminary building, and the Relief Society was asked to furnish it with suitable shades and drapes for the windows. During the past year this has been accomplished. "Our project for this year is more efficient teachers' work and larger attendance at meeting, especially of the very young mothers. Also more Relief Society Magazines in the homes. We hope to be on your honor roll before the end of the season."
Timpanogos Stake:
The Relief Society visiting teachers' convention of the Timpanogos stake was held January 13, 1931, at 2 p. m. in the Pleasant Grove Third Ward Amusement Hall. During the year 1930, the visiting teachers in all the wards have made 100%. The convention took the form of a testimonial in honor of those who had worked so faithfully to make this enviable record possible. The hosts were members of the Relief Society Stake Presidency and Board. All Relief Society members were invited to be present. The hall was filled to capacity, more than three hundred in attendance, among whom were Mrs. Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Inez K. Allen, of the General Board, the Stake Presidency, and the Bishopric from the ward, members of
170
the High Council. The stake president, Mrs. Ella M. Cragun presided, and expressed appreciation for the labor so faithfully performed by the teachers. The program of songs and speeches was very beautifully carried out, and also a play was a feature of the entertainment. At the conclusion of the program a very tasty luncheon was served. It was felt that the afternoon had been a most delightful and profitable meeting, with a wonderful spirit prevailing throughout.
California Mission:
On September 28, 1930, the Sutter Branch Relief Society, at Sacramento, California, presented
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the little pageant "Eternal Womanhood." The purpose of the meeting was to introduce the ensuing year's work, and show the scope of Relief Society activities. The characters portrayed were: Womanhood, Motherhood, The Word of God, Obedience, Love, Service, Home, Prayer, Virtue, Intelligence, Faith, Beauty and Loyalty. The topics discussed as a part of the evening's program were as follows: "Duties of Teacher Supervisor and Relief Society Teachers," "Activities of Work and Business Meeting," "Theology," "Literature," "Social Service." The sisters in this branch have been most devoted in the discharge of their duties, and they rejoice greatly in the privilege which is theirs, that of ministering to the needy, and of giving of their means and service to further the work of the Lord.
Southern States Mission:
Sister Grace E. Callis, president of the Southern States Mission Relief Society writes: "The organization of four new Societies shows that the interest of the wom-
"ETERNAL WOMANHOOD," SAN FRANCISCO STAKE
en in the Relief Society and their desire to be actively associated with it is ever growing. A whole-hearted and enthusiastic response was given by the sisters to the request to make articles of clothing for the needy. The clothing thus made, or as much thereof as was necessary was used in the branches; the surplus was sent to mission headquarters for distribution to the needy in the country districts. In addition
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
to the social service work done by the Relief Society as an organization, the sisters are cooperating with well known local charitable associations in studying the conditions that prevail among the poor, and by example and precept are helping to bring about an improvement in the home conditions of the unfortunate. Imbued with the missionary spirit quite a number of the sisters in the branches do regular missionary work when their household duties permit. They tract two by two, hold cottage meetings and accompany the lady missionaries in distributing Gospel literature, holding meetings, visiting, etc. More and more the sisters are relying on the Relief Society Magazine as an authoritative, helpful and inspiring guide in their work. In the study of the outlined lessons, the spiritual side of our duties is clearly seen, and the desire for advancement along literary lines is well answered. We are most appreciative of the wise counsel and blessing and friendship of the general organization of the Relief Society."
171
Central States Mission (Leavenworth Branch):
From the Leavenworth Branch, Kansas, comes a very interesting report of the Relief Society. It is a small branch, but the spirit of the organization is the same in all parts. There were just eight members in the organization, but they prepared dinner for all who attended the East Kansas district conference in Leavenworth, on August 10, 1930. It was a very successful affair. Due to the fine cooperation of the Bee Hive Girls in the branch, dinner was served to all in attendance, and a nice little sum was netted for the use of the organization. Sister Charlotte T. Bennion, president of the Central States Mission, was in attendance. There were also some visitors from other conferences. Very excellent instructions were given, and the sisters in this branch, as in others, are widely scattered and have many difficulties, but they are enjoying their work, and through it find inspiration to solve their problems and continue in the work of the Lord.
Notes to the Field
Bicentennial of George Washington
In 1924, when Calvin Coolidge was President of the United States, the George Washington Bicentennial Commission was created by joint session of Congress. The purpose as expressed by that body is—"to so commemorate the first true American that future generations of American citizens may live according to the example and precepts of his exalted life and character and thus perpetuate the American Republic." An important part of this celebration will be the planting of ten million trees throughout the United States to be dedicated with appropriate ceremonies by the citizens of the various communities on Feb. 22, 1932. A record will be kept of all trees planted and the names will be recorded as members of the American Tree Association, and certificates will be sent to each one. In Dec., 1930, Governor George H. Dern appointed the Utah Bicentennial Commission of which Chauncy P. Overfield is chairman,
172
to arrange Utah's part in the National celebration. The Utah Commission aspires to have each city and town in Utah arrange a tree planting program for Arbor Day, (which will be on or before April 15.) Such trees are to be dedicated with appropriate ceremonies Feb. 22, 1932. The General Board of Women's National Relief Society in recent session voted to cooperate with the Utah Commission in this tree planting program. Every stake and ward might arrange for appropriate planting in suitable places such as grounds of houses of worship, play grounds, public parks, etc. The Relief Society has always responded to every patriotic appeal. This is a rare opportunity to honor the father of our country and at the same time to enrich the forestry and beautify some sacred spot.
The Jones-Cooper Bill
The General Board is watching with keen interest the fate of the Jones-Cooper Maternity Bill, the successor to the Sheppard-Towner Act, which authorizes "an annual federal appropriation of one million dollars to be spent along with equal amounts from states for promotion of the health and welfare of mothers and infants." The Bill passed the Senate by a vote of 56 to 10 on January 10. On January 15, night letters were sent
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to Utah's representatives Colton and Loofbourow by the General Board stating that the Relief Society strongly favored the passage of this measure, and replies were received that these representatives favored the bill.
Magazine Subscriptions
We had hoped to publish in this issue the record of stake subscriptions to our magazine. So few stakes have made their report to us that we will wait to get word from more stakes. We note with pleasure that earnest, efficient work has been done by those who have reported. Many stakes have given prizes to the wards securing the highest percentage of subscriptions. Kindly send in your reports as soon as possible.

We wish to inform subscribers to the Magazine who have not yet sent in their renewal for 1931 that we still have January numbers. Also let us suggest that as an organization you have one volume bound each year and keep for reference in the files of your Relief Society.
Class Teachers: Are you having the membership of the class participate or are you occupying all the time yourselves? Teaching is not a pouring in process. Draw out the members, stimulate their thinking, encourage them to express themselves.
Henry Ford asked Steinmetz, "In the next fifty years, where do you think the greatest development will be made?" "I think the greatest development will be made along spiritual lines—the greatest power in the development of mankind," was the reply.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager: Amy Brown Lyman
Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.

