	WHOM DO GREAT MEN MARRY.

	Distinguished individuals show the same
diversity of taste that is seen in the lower
ranks, and on the whole make worse mis-
takes. They, however, show the same
sense in choosing wives that they show in
managing other people's affairs, whether
they be good or bad.
	Robert Burns married a farm girl with
whom he fell in love while they worked to-
gether in the plow-field. He was irregular
in his life, and committed the most serious
mistakes in conducting his domestic affairs.
	Milton married the daughter of a country
squire, but lived with her but a short time.
He was an austere, exacting, literary re-
cluse, while she was a rosy, romping country
lass, that could not bear the restraint im-
posed upon her, so they separated. subse-
quently, however, she returned and they
lived tolerably happy.
	Queen Victoria and Prince Albert were
cousins, and about the only example in the
long line of English monarchs wherein the
marital vows were sacredly observed, and
sincere affection existed.
	Shakespeare loved and wedded a farmer's
daughter. She was faithful to her vows,
but could hardly say the same of the great
bard himself. Like most of the great poets
he showed too little discrimination in be-
stowing his affections on the other sex.
	Byron married Miss Milbank to get money
to pay his debts. It turned out a bad
shift.
	Benjamin Franklin married the girl who
stood in her father's door, laughing at him
as he wandered through the streets of Phil-
adelphia, with rolls of bread under his arms,
and his pockets filled with dirty clothes.
She had occasion to be happy when she
found herself the wife of one who proved to
be a great and good man.
	Washington married a woman with two
children. It is enough to say she was worthy
of him, and, that they lived as married folks
should—in perfect harmony.
	John Adams married the daughter of a
Presbyterian clergyman. Her father ob-
jected on account of John's being a lawyer;
he had a bad opinion of the morals of the
profession.
	John Howard, the great philanthropist,
married his nurse. She was altogether be-
neath him in social life and intellectual
capacity; and, besides this, was fifty-two
years old, while he was but twenty-five.
He would not take "No" for answer, and
they were married and lived happily to-
gether until her death, which occurred
years afterwards.
	Peter the Great, of Russia, married a
peasant girl. She made an excellent wife
and a sagacious empress.
	Humboldt married a girl because he loved
her. Of course they were happy.
	It is not generally known that Andrew
Jackson married a lady whose husband was
still living. She was an uneducated but
amiable woman, and was most devotedly
attached to the old warrior and statesman.
	Edward Lytton Bulwer, the English
statesman and novelist, married a girl much
his inferior in position, and got a shrew for
a wife.


THE Hon. Ashur Ware, who died in Port-
land, Me., recently, at the age of 92 years,
was editor of the "Boston Yankee," in 1816,
and the “Portland Eastern Argus,” in 1817.
He held the office of District Judge 44
years, besides other important trusts.


