							LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
			﻿R. S. REPORTS.
	Meeting of the 11th Ward Retrenchment
Association, held October 30th, 1873, was
opened by singing, “Now let us rejoice,”
etc.,: prayer by Mrs. Hunt; singing, “We
thank thee O! God for a prophet.” Minutes
of the previous meeting were read and ac-
cepted. A portion of the Third Lecture on
Faith was read. Select reading by Counselor
S. Freeze, Miss Aggio Sprowl and Miss Re-
becca Muning. President Mary A. Freeze
then said: The editorial in the EXPONENT
on “Something New Wanted” has impres-
sed me very much. How true it is that we
are constantly wanting something new, yet
do not live up to half the counsels we have.
Let us be more earnest in our endeavors to
thoroughly learn our old lessons, that we
may be prepared for new ones; for the Lord
has them ready for us when we are ready
to receive them. What a comfort it is the
Lord will ovrelook our short comings, in-
asmuch as we have it in our hearts to do
His will. I should have given up in
despair long ago, had it not been for this
knowledge. President Young has said that
“If we do as near right as we know how,
we are as perfect as the angels.” But we
do not do this at all times. We allow our-
selves to get irritated and unnappy over
some little thing, when at the same time
we know we should have better control over
ourselves. Still we cannot become perfect
all in one day, but it takes constant striving for
the victory. I felt proud of the compliment
Sister Snow gave the Retrenchment girls at
the last meeting; that if she wanted any-
thing done that required energy and
reliability, they would be the ones she would
call upon. You can see by this what confi-
dence you have inspired already and it
should be an incentive to urge you on to
greater diligence. Let us be watchful, for
the Apostle says: “He that thinketh he
standeth let him take heed lest he fall.” I
have received a letter from our Secretary.
She says she misses the good meetings very
much. She also says tell the girls to appreci-
ate the great blessings they enjoy. I pray
that we all may be faithful and become
bright and shining lights in the Kingdom of
God.
	Sister Hunt said, I feel thankfnl. my
young sisters, to meet with you again; and
glad to see the same faces that attended a
year ago. This organization is calculated to
[Column 2]
benefit and instruct all that attend these
meetings. When I was young I had no one
to teach me as you have. You should also
be thankful have such a President as you
have, to teach and instruct you in the things
of life. I think of all the meetings I ever
attended these are the best. I pray the
Lord to inspire your hearts anew to go
ahead in this good work.
	Sister Cushion said those who have spoken
have borne my testimony. I also embraced
the Gospel for the love of the truth, and the
desires of my heart are to do right, though
I come far short sometimes. The moment
I stepped inside this door I could feel that
the Spirit of the Lord was here; I would
exhort you to be true to Retrenchment and
sustain and assist your President, and you
will surely become bright lights in this
kingdom.
	Miss Aggie Sprowl said We have had
many good instructions taught, and should
be thankful for them. I never enjoy my-
self as well at any other meetings as here and
at 14th Ward. Kindness is what we should
cultivate—think twice before we speak once
—and remember a soft answer turneth away
wrath. I feel to appreciate the labors of our
president. I cannot express my feelings
to-night. May the Lord help us to do right.
	Other remarks followed and meeting ad-
journed. Benediction by Miss J. Myras.


[Column 1]
