			BY G. R. B.

	I have come to the conclusion that it is a
peculiarity of the feminine mind never to
be really happy unless burdened with tasks
so numerous as to fill every hour of the day.
Else why is there so much superfluous work
continually being done. Take, for instance,
patchwork quilts. Many people innocently
suppose that because white counterpanes are
cheaper and prettier, patchwork has fallen
into disuse, and is indeed become one of the
lost arts, but I can assure them that in the
country it still flourishes. Not only are bits
of material, left from garments made, cut
into minute fragments and sewed together
again in geometrical patterns and wonderous
devices, but yards of new material are used
up in the same way. This work, together
with a great amount of labor and time con-
sumed in the quilting, produces an article
not one-half as pretty as white counterpanes
which cost but little money, and no time or
labor before they are ready for use.


Then the sewing! The flounces overlay
my skirts, the ruffles overlay my flounces,
the trimming of the edges of all, and the
tucks filling every inch of space, so that a
well-made and perfectly plain garment would
be refreshing, and resting to our tired eyes.
See the amount of unnecessary work done
by women who strive to attain and main-
tain a reputation for superlative housekeep-
ing. Neatness, like all other virtues, be-
comes a vice when carried to excess. The
wearing away of floors; tables, chairs, wood-
work, and all kitchen utensils, by the
continual scrubbing of that which was al-
ready perfectly clean—who can account for
this, except by the love of work for its own
sake rather than for its results?
	Then the worse than useless cooking.
When bread and butter are well made,
meats, vegetables and fruits skillfully pre-
pared for the table, it must be a depraved
appetite that would long for pies, cakes and
preserves.
	To repeat the idea with which I com-
menced: I believe if there should come to
our busy MARTHAS an afternoon in which
there would be nothing at all to be done—
the house in perfect order from garret to
cellar—no sewing to do, not even a letter to
write—they would be restlessly unquiet
and finally miserable before the happy hour
when they could again take up the burden
by getting supper.


