WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	WE find the following in an exchange:
A standing antidote for poison by oak, ivy, 
etc., is to take a handful of quick lime, dis-
solve in water, let it stand half an hour, 
then paint the poisoned part with it.  Three
or four applications will never fail to cure.
	THE following suggestions of devices are
from a correspondent of the "Rural New
Yorker:"
	A WALL PROTECTOR to put behind a 
wash-stand, is made of pink cambrie, co-
vered with dotted muslin, gathered, and
sewed on; a hem an inch wide on the top
gives it a finish.
	FOR A HAIR-RECEIVER, I take a square
piece of perforated cardboard and work a 
pretty pattern with worsted; line it with
cambric; bind it on three sides with ribbon;
roll it so as it forms a horn of plenty; put a
bow at the top and bottom and it is com-
plete.
	I HAVE TOILET MATS made of white
Marseilles, braided with fine red braid and 
the edge embroidered with red cotton.
					H. T. G.
"Niagara Falls, N.Y."
	ARROWPOINT PUDDING.—Mix four table-
spoonfuls to a smooth batter with a half pint
of milk; put a pint of milk on the fire with a
lump of sugar, and when it boils, add the
batter, and keep stirring it till sufficiently
thick to leave the saucepan.  Pour it into a 
mould previously soaked in cold water, and 
when could it will turn out easily.
	BURNS, SCALDS, AND THEIR TREATMENT.
—Mix common kitched whiting with sweet
oil, or, if sweet oil is not at hand, with
water.  Plaster the whole of the burn and 
some inches all around with the above, after
mixing it to the consistency of common
paste, and lay it on an eighth, or rather more,
of an inch in thickness.  It acts like a 
charm: the most agonizing pain is in a few
minutes stilled.  Take care to keep the
mixture moist by the application from time 
to time of fresh oil or fresh water, and at
night wrap the whole part affected in gut-
ta-percha or flannel, to keep the moisture 
from evaporating.  The patient will in all 
probability, unless the flesh be much injured
and the burn be a very bad one, sleep
soundly.
	MATRIMONY TART.—Pare and core about
a half dozen nice-sized apples; put them
into a saucepan with a little water to keep
them from burning; boil them until you 
can pulp them (but do not forget to fre-
quenctly stir them), then add a quarter of a
pound of currants, two ounces of candied peel,
and enough sugar to sweeten it nicely; if
liked, also a little grated nutmeg.  Pour
this mixture into a large tart-tin or dish
that has previously been lined with a thin 
paste.  Then roll out another piece the same
size and thickness, which place over the 
top; press the edges together all round,
make a hole into the centre (the same as for 
mince-pies), and bake.  When apples are
plentiful this makes a pleasing chagne from
the ordinary routine of pies and puddings.
	COCOA-NUT CAKES.—Rasp a fresh cocoa-
nut on a grater, avoiding letting any of the 
brown rind in by holding it towards you;
spread it on a dish an dlet it dry gradually
for two days; add to it double its weight of
sifted sugar and the well-beated whites of
eight eggs, a teacupful of flour for every
pound; put the mixture into small dorp-tins
and bake in a very gentle oven for about 
twenty minutes.
	TO DYE DRIED FLOWERS.—Some of the
most beautiful ornaments for the interior of
[Column 2]
our dwellings are those of natural produc-
tion, such as shells, crystals, corals, minerals,
etc.  There ever has been a desire to retain
flowers during the whole winter; but what 
Nautre Witholds, Art in the many instances
partially supplies.  The gathering of grasses,
mosses, ferns, and certain flowers called
gnaphalium, or everlasting flowers, during
autumn, is a delightful occupation.  Then
comes the work of setting them up into 
various ornamental forms.  Most of the
grasses and several mosses dry of a somber
hue, though they retain their exquisite
form. to whiten, or bleach them, make a 
cone of paper, in which the flowers are to 
be placed, over a small piece of burning sul-
phur.  To dye them—red.  Carmine dis-
olved in a solution of cabonate of potash, or
carmine dissolved in ammonia: say, car-
mine, a quarter of an ounce; liqquid ammo-
nia, half an ounce; water, a quarter of a pint.
Blue.—Indigo, dissolved in sulphuric acid, 
and neutralized with whiting.  Yellow.
—A solution of turmeric spirits of wine.
Violet.—Archil and the above blue.  Lilac.
—Archil, in boiling water.  Green.—Dye
first light blue by diluting the above by one
half with water, and then use the yellow.
All these grasses, etc., are dyed by dipping
them into solutions of the above mixtures.
The colors may be brightened if the plants
be first dipped in water containing cream of
tartar, and dried.


