   MISCELLANEOUS.

	THERE is a whole sermon in the saying of
the old Persian, “In all thy quarrels leave
open the door of reconciliation."
	All religious orders in Guatemala have
been suppressed and their property has been
devoted to instruction at San Juan, Del
Norte.
	SURELY one of the best rules in conversa-
tion, is never to say a thing which any of
the company can reasonably wish we had
rather left unsaid.—“Swift.”
	A SHREWD old gentleman once said to
his daughter, "Be sure, my dear, you
never marry a poor man; but the poorest
man in the world is one that has money and
nothing else."
	So witty a compliment is rarely made as
that of Sydney Smith's to his friends Mrs.
"Tighe and Mrs. Cuffe:—Ah, there you are
the cuff that every one would like to wear,
and the tie that no one would lose."
	"How will we settle the labor question?"
exclaimed a member of the Georgia Legis-
lature, in the midst of his speech. "By all
going to work, and earning your living
honestly!" thundered an irreverent specta-
tor in the gallery.
	THERE have been many definitions of a
gentleman, but the prettiest and most pa-
thetic is that given by a young lady, who
says:—“A gentleman is a human being
combining a woman's tenderness with a
man's courage."
	A MAN, after waltzing six times with one
lady at a ball, was asked if he was fond of
dancing. “Oh, no,” replied the youth, "I
don't care for it, but my doctor advised me
to-day to take a sweat, and this is cheaper
than a Turkish bath."
	AT a recent Connecticut wedding, in re-
peating the words, "If you know of any
just cause," etc., the minister looked
straight at a nervous young man directly in
front of him. The fellow sprang up with
much haste and trepidation, and blurted out:
"Oh, no, bless me! not the slightest objec-
tion, sir."
	HE who has not learned the lesson of
resolute self-help has made little progress
as a student, has grown little towards real
manhood. Half the world refuses to do its
own thinking, to toil through the solution
of its own knotty problems, hence half the
world who will not do this must be subject
to the other half who will. They who do
the thinking will either directly or indi-
rectly do the governing.


﻿"ONE of the most interesting features of
the Granges” (of the Patrons of Husbandry,
the new Order founded by the Western
farmers to oppose the encroachments of rail-
road monoply), says Coleman’s Rural World,
"is that not a single one can be organized
without the companionship of the ladies.


﻿Two girls in New Bedford, Massachusetts,
aged twelve and fourteen, who lost their
father some months ago, have, since his
death, taken the entire care of a horse, five
cows, and a great flock of hens; done all of
the odd “chores” about the house, attended
public school, and in their leisure moments
taken lessons on the piano.


