		SKELETONIZING LEAVES.

	Some of our readers will be pleased with
the following directions, published in the
"Gardeners' Magazine," for making those
beautiful ornaments known as skeleton
leaves.
	Select the finest and most perfect speci-
mens, and soak them in a large deep vessel
of rain water; place it in a sunny spot or
other warm situation, and shake it occasion-
ally, but not sufficient to stir up the contents,
as that might injure the fibers of the leaves.
As the water evaporates, fill up with fresh
water again, without changing that which
remains. Be careful of using any chemi-
cal in order to assist decompositions as you
will thereby run great risk of injuring the
delicate skeleton, which of course you are
anxious to keep quite perfect. But if you
are impatient of waiting, a few drops of
muriatic acid would hasten the destruction
of the soft parts. The most usual plan,
however, is to soak the leaves in rain water
only, until the skin which envelops the
fiber is quite soft and loose, so that it can
be easily removed. The best plan for ac-
complishing this is to lay each one sepa-
rately in a plate full of water, and carefully
remove the soft parts with a needle, or
gently rubbing with the finger and thumb.
Of course, great care must be taken not to
break the skeleton; but with little practice
you will be able to do so easily. As soon as
the water thickens, so that you cannot well
see what you are about, change it, or you
will spoil your work. In some cases a piece
of soft flannel may be used with advantage;
but the final clearing of pulp from the fibers
must be performed by a camel's hair brush.
The time required for steeping them de-
pends upon a variety of circumstances, such
as the kind of a leaf, its age, the time of
year, the temperature of the weather, etc.
The leaves of the ivy and holly require soak-
ing for three or four months, while those of
the pear, apple, and poplar will be ready in
as many weeks; so that it will be necessary
for you to use your own judgement and dis-
cover the time each kind of leaf requires for
yourself by examining them occasonally.
Of course it will require some patience and
perseverance before "first-rate" skeletons
[Column 2]
can be obtained; but the task is not so diffi-
cult but that any one gifted with ordinary
patience and medium talent may be able
to produce very creditable specimens. The
vessel containing the water may be pretty
well filled with specimens, as they will not
injure each other unless shaken too rudely,
but perhaps rather assist in the process of
decomposition. It is not adviasable to use
any but full-grown leaves, as the delicate
fibers of the young ones are likely to decom-
pose with the pulp. The best time for
selecting them is therefore about July or
August, when they are quite mature, but
still vigorous. Great care must be taken
to choose only the most perfect, for it is
obvious that if any portion of the fibres are
injured before you macerated them, it will
be impossible to obtain a perfect specimen.
Hold your leaf then up to the light, and if
you can see a crack, or any small spots of
decay, throw it away, or your time and
trouble will be wasted. for when once the
skeleton is broken or otherwise injured, all
attempts to repair it will prove unavailing.
Those leaves which have the toughest fibers
are, of course, the best adapted for the pur-
pose, and consequently the soft leaves of
rapid growing plants are useless. Those
best adapted for the purpose, and which can
be obtained by everybody, are the leaves of
ivy, holly, magnolia, rose, pear, sycamore,
willow, oak, hawthorn, poplar, orange, and
lemon, the petals of hydrangea, and fruit
of the apple, thorn, and winter cherry.
Each kind of leaf has a peculiarity of struc-
ture and a beauty entirely its own, so that
the difference in the fiberous network, and
the variety and elegance of outline observa-
ble in the different subjects give to the
pursuit a great charm. The appearance of
the skeleton is greatly improved by bleach-
ing, which is accomplished by plunging in
spring water in which there has been dis-
olved some chloride of lime. Two table-
spoonfuls of liquid chloride to a pint of
water will suffice. In some cases the
skeletons will become white in a few min-
utes, but leaves of a stronger fiber will take
a much longer time. When well bleached,
dry them on blotting paper, and then
arrange them tastefully in a vase, and cover
the whole with a glass shade, when you will
possess a very elegant ornament for your
drawing-room or your boudoir. A shorter
method has been devised for preparing
skeleton leaves which occupies but a few
minutes, but is applicable only to those of
the toughest fiber as the process is somewhat
rough. It consists in drying the leaves be-
tween sheets of blotting paper, in a botanical
press, or under a weight; when quite dry,
place the leaf to be operated upon on a soft
pad and beat it with a brush until the pulp
is entirely separated from the fiber. Some
very good skeletons have been obtained in
this manner. A cushion and a clothes brush
will be sufficient for the first experiment
when, if the plan is approved, you can easily
devise means to carry it out properly.


JAY COOK, one of the prominent sufferers
from the financial crash, has a real heroine
for a wife, who promptly relinquishes her
dowery right to aid in meeting the pecuni-
ary liabilities of her husband. Though ac-
customed to luxury she will doubtless, find
more true pleasure in making this sacrifice,
than in the enjoyment of undisturbed
wealth.


﻿THE United States Senatorial Committee
on Elections and Privileges have drafted a
new amendment to the Constitution, provid-
ing a method of electing a President and
Vice-President directly by the people.


