HINTS TO YOUNG MARRIED PEOPLE.

	The following paragraph is worthy the careful
perusal of any woman who is seeking, or ever
intends, to honestly fulfil the calling of a wife:
	"The true girl has to be sought for. She
does not parade herself to show her goods. She
is not fashionable. Generally she is not rich.
But. oh! what a heart she has when you find
her! So large and pure and womanly. When
you see her you wonder if those showy things
outside were women. If you gain her love,
your two thousands are millions. She'll not
ask you for a carriage or first-class house.
She'll wear simple dresses, and turn them
when necessary with no vulgar magnificent
frown upon her economy. She'll keep eveyr-
thing neat and nice in your sky parlor, and
give such a welcome when you come home
that you'll think your parlor brighter than
ever.  She will entertain true friends on a dol-
lar, and astonish you with the new thought of
how little happiness depends on money. She will
make you love home, and teach you how to
pity, while you scorn a poor fashionable society,
which thinks itself rich and vainly tries to
think itself happy."
	Young wife, reflect, if the husband whom
you love so much has found that true girl in
you; and if you can satisfactorily answer your-
self that indeed he has, be thankful for the
noble disposition of which you are possessed,
and endeavor to throw beams of light in the
way of others who may be less fortunate.
	Then, there is another side to the picture.
There is the true man to find as well as the
true girl. And quite as rarely does he make an
appearance amid the ranks of fashionable so-
ciety. But when you do find him, young lady,
the vexatious and trials of married life, against
which so many warnings are given, are so
limited in your case that you will never need
to join your stories of sad experience and human
wrongs with the many that are daily told.
Nothing that would prove a comfort in the
slightest degree to his wife, is too small for the
true man to think of and attend to for her sake.
And no necessary task is too great for him to
undertake, for her convenience and happiness.
He kindly appreciates and encourages all the
efforts of the true girl to make their home a


paradise; and warmly reciprocating, tries with
her to keep everything neat and orderly, that
both may have time for enjoyment and mental
improvement. He will not absurdly imag-
ine that with no pains-taking on his part, it is
an easy thing for his wife to keep articles of
use in their proper places; that it is her duty
alone and not his in the least, to think of and
look after all these things. But when a thought
occurs to his mind, of some little improvement
that might be made in the domestic arrange-
ments, he pleasantly suggests the same to her,
never thinking to find fault or seek to govern
where his rights do not extend. Thus the true
man and the true girl are mutually and con-
tinually blest with the love and confidence and
assistance of each other, where fortune has
kindly brought them together.


