		A VISIT TO OGDEN.

	On the 30th of October, accompanied by Mrs.
B. W. Smith and Mrs. P. Woodruff, in response
to an invitation from President Mrs. J. S. Rich-
ards, I met with a large assemblage of the
Relief Society, in the Tabernacle in Ogden
City. While viewing the numerous congrega-
tion, which was principally composed of ladies,
with faces beaming with expressions of happi-
ness, and intelligence, the thought forced itself
upon my mind, that, if those meddlesome per-
sons who are making piteous moans over the
"poor, oppressed women of Utah," could take
one unprejudiced look at the imposing, interest-
ing and cheery sight presented in this Taberna-
cle, they would henceforth and forever, withhold
the pusillanimous sympathies they so lavishly
waste in our behalf.
	The Prof. Monch, yielding to the interests of
the Society, dismissed his school at an unusual
hour, to give his many young lady students an
opportunity of attending the meeting, is a cir-
cumstance worthy of note.
	It was a most interesting sight, and every
eye was riveted to the beautiful procession, as
in double file, these young ladies marched
down one of the long aisles of the Tabernacle,
and with modest dignity took seats reserved
for them nearly in front of the stand, which was
occupied by President F. D. Richards and
other prominent gentlemen including Prof.
Monch, (after conducting his corps of students
to the entrance) President Mrs. Richards and
her efficient Board, Mrs. P. Kimball, Mrs. Pix-
ton and other prominent ladies, and, of course,
your honored correspondent.
	I regret my inability to give the number of
the young ladies—my admiration was too ab
sorbing for numericals. They were all dressed
neatly and tastefully, without exhibiting any
of those exuberances of style, at war with gen-
teel figure and graceful bearing; while their
countenances glowed with health, beauty and
happiness, and their strictly attentive manner
during the meeting, manifested a power of
noble intellect and moral feeling, indicating
that they realized that they too, had an interest
in the progress of the great work of womanly
development.
	After the close of the meeting, sisters Smith
and Woodruff returned home—I stayed the next
day, which I spent with much pleasure and profit
to myself, and trust, with some, to others. In
connection with other calls, sister Richards and
I visited Professor Monch's school, in a com-
modious room neatly fitted up with furniture
imported from the East. The teacher and
students, all seemed happy, and our interview
was exceedingly interesting. After other exer-
cises, we were entertained with music on the
piano, and songs by the pupils. We could see
at a glance that, "order, heaven's first law,"
reigned in that Institution. Not with tyrannical
sway, where "power is might, and force de-
cides," but a government wielded by kindness,
and clothed with the mantle of love.
	It will be gratifying to those interested in
human progress, to hear that Prof. Monch is
establishing a class of young ladies, in the all
important, and much neglected study of Physi-
ology.
	I was much pleased to learn that two, at least,
of this class, design to obtain a thorough classi-
cal education, to qualify themselves for the
medical profession. I say, success to them, as
well as to all those in Salt Lake City and else-
where, who are studying for the same object.
	In the afternoon we visited the branch of the
Relief Society in Riverdale, presided over by
Mrs. Bingham, and had a pleasant time.
	For the encouragement of my sisters who are

[Column 2]
nobly applying their efforts to benefit humanity
in every laudable manner, let me assure them
that they have co-workers, who are alive to the
interests of the great cause of Zion, both in
Ogden and vicinity.
