	YOU KISSED ME.

	The following poem, remarkably beautiful 
and full of passion, was addressed by a young
woman to a young man to whom she was en-
gaged to be married. The wedding was ap-
pointed, at 8 o'clock P. M. and the expectant
bridegroom suddenly died at 6 P. M. only two
hourse before the time fixed for his marriage.
Miss — was never married; but refused
repeated subsequent offers.

You kissed me! My head drooped low on your breast,
With a feeling of shelter, and infinite rest-
While the holy emotion my tongue dared not speak,
Flushed up like a flame from my heart to my cheek.
Your arms were around me.-Oh, your arms were so
	bold,
Heart beat against heart in their passionate hold!
Your glances seemed drawing my soul through my
	eyes,
As the sun draws the mist from the earth to the skies;
And your lips clung to mine, till I prayed, in my
	bliss;
They should never depart from that passionate kiss.

You kissed me! My heart, and my breath, and my
	will.
In delirious joy for a moment stood still!
Life had for me then no temptation---no charms----
No vista of pleasure outside of your arms!
And were I this instant and angel, possessed
Of the glory and peace that belong to the blest,
I would cast my white robes unrepiningly down,
And dash from my forehead its heavenly crown,
To nestle once more in that haven of rest,
With your lips upon mine, and my head on your breast. 

You kissed me! My sould, in a transport divine.
Reeled and swoomed like one drunken and maddened
	with wine!
And I thought 'twere delicious to die thus---if death
Would come while my mouth was yet moist with
	your breath;
'Twere delicious to die if my heart could grow cold
While your arms wrapt me round in that passionate
	hold!
And these are the questions I ask day and night---
Must my life taste but once such ecstatic delight--
Would you like, if your breast was my shelter as then,
And if you were here---would you kiss me again? 
									MATTIE.
	In the "Ladies' Floral Cabinet."


[Column 1]
					[For the EXPONENT.
	TAKE CARE OF THE BOYS.
Exponent L. B. W.
	Throughout the length and breadth of the
land the cry is, Mother’s, instruct your
daughters, make them fit for wives and
mothers.” But I would say also, while you
bestow so much time and thought upon
your girls, be sure you do not neglect or
forget your boys. They too, require your
gentle, loving care; do not give them up
entirely to their father, when they done
their first suit of male attire. Teach them
to feel they still belong to you, and must
give you a correct account of their time and
actions, and look to you for advice and coun-
sel; let them know that you love them as
well as their sisters. Let them play in the
house and in the yard; what if they do wear
out your carpets and mar your furniture, is
that any comparison to their worth?
	Do not be afraid they will be unmanly if
they associate freely with you and their
sisters; they will be more refined, more
courteous, and make better husbands and
fathers for it.
	It is seldom you see a case, where there
is an only son, brought up among many
sisters, and partaking freely of their influ-
ence, but he makes an exceptional man.
	Mothers cling to your boys, do not send
them out from you, to see, hear and learn
all the evils that prevail in this fast age, be-
fore their minds are capable of comprehend-
ing right from wrong. Try and put up with
their noise, it will be easy to bear compared
with their faults (and sins may be) if they
are allowed to roam at large. Be just as
careful in choosing companions for them as
for your girls; remember impressions made
in early youth stamp perceptibly the after
[Column 2]
﻿life—teach them to fear God, to honor His
laws and His servants; do not allow them
to fish and hunt and roam about on the
Sabbath day, while you and your daughters
dress yourselves with care and go to the
House of Worship.
	Boys must have their clothes made and
mended as well as girls; do not get out of
patience because they are so destructive,
and cannot darn their own socks or sew
on their buttons; their sphere is a different
one; they must perform more arduous labor;
on them eventually rests the fate of the
nation. Then if you would have the right
of women respected, teach your boys to love
and respect their mothers! Let them see
your earnestness and devotion to them, and
recognize their rights and privileges at
home, and you will be almost sure to do it
effectually. I contend, boys have as much
right in the parlor as girls; if they are not
permitted free access to the parlor at home
when little boys, how will they conduct
themselves there when they become young
men?
	How often have I heard mothers say, “I do
not trouble about my little boys, when they
are out of sight; they can take care of them-
selves,” forgetting that the tempter is al-
ways ready to ensnare the innocent and
unwary; that they may contract habits
which will totally unfit them for positions
they might otherwise occupy!
	Do not understand me that I exclude
the father from his jurisdiction—far from it.
But it is the mother who experts the most
abundant influence over the mind of a child.
Oftentimes the father is too much engrossed
in business, to be able to attend to these
duties; or abroad, preaching the Gospel.
Sometimes large families may prevent the
father paying such special attention to every
member; but a mother’s province is at
home. She should always know, unless
sickness or some inevitable cause prepent,
where her chidren are and what associa-
tions they are forming. 
	Look at history and see how. many great
and good men, Statesmen, Warriors and
even Kings attribute their successes,
more or less, to their mother’s influence-
and teaching. King Alfred the Great, whose
memory will never die, had a good and wise
mother, who in molding his mind and charac-
ter,taught him the value and importance of an
education, in an age when it was considered
only necessary for the priests, kings and men
of rank to distinguish themselves as great
warriors, hunters and horsemen; these were
their highest ambitions.
	But King Alfred devoted himself to study
also, and encouraged learning everywhere;
he founded schools for his subjects and the
two great colleges, Oxford and Cambridge.
	Mothers in Israel, my appeal is especially
to you. You wish your boys to become
honored instruments in the hands of God,
to help and assist in establishing righteous-
ness and the true principles pertaining to
life and salvation; then keep them pure,
just as much so as your daughters. Never
suffer them to use tobacco in any form; or
ardent spirits, which destroys the body and
deadens the mental faculties; never laugh
at rough talk or rude jests because they are
boys; let them see you do not approve of
either. Strive to make them all you most
admire in men. Be earnest, watchful and
prayerful in your labor of love, that your
sons may be fit for husbands, for fathers of
families, for Elders in Israel, for pillars in
Zion.
			BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.
