FRIDAY.

	From time immemorial Friday has been
frowned upon as a day of ill-omen; and,
though this prejudice is less prevalent now
than it has been in days of yore, when
superstition had general sway, yet there
are many, even in this matter-of-fact age of
ours, who would hesitate, on a day so in-
auspicious, to begin an undertaking of
momentous import. And now many brave
mariners, whose hearts unquailed could
meet the wildest fury of their ocean home,
would blanch to even bend their sails on
Friday! But, to show with how much
reason this feeling is indulged, let us ex-
amine the following important facts in
connection with our settlement and great-
ness as a nation, and we will see how little
cause we Americans have to dread this
fatal day:
	On Friday, August 3d, 1492, Christopher
Columbus sailed on his great voyage of dis-
covery.
	On Friday, October 12th, 1492 he first
discovered land.
	On Friday, January 4th, 1493, he sailed
on his return to Spain, which, if he had not
reached in safety, the happy result which
led to the settlement of this vast conti-
nent would never have been known.
	On Friday, March 15th, 1493, he arrived
safely at Palos.
	On Friday, November 22d, 1493, he ar-
rived at Hispaniola on his second voyage to
America.
	On Friday, June 13th, 1494, he, though
unknown to himself, discovered the conti-
nent of America.
	On Friday, March 5th, 1496, Henry VIII.
of England, gave to John Cabot his com-
mission, which led to the discovery of North
America. This is the first American state
paper of England.
	On Friday, September 7th, 1584, Melen-
dez founded St. Augustine—the oldest set-
tlement in the United States by more than
forty years.
	On Friday, November 10th, 1620, the
Mayflower, with the Pilgrims, made the
harbor of Provincetown; and on the same
day was signed that august compact, the
forerunner of our glorious constitution.
	On Friday, December 22d, 1620, the
Pilgrims made their final landing on Ply-
mouth rock.
	On Friday, February 22d, 1732, George
Washington, the father of American free-
dom, was born.
	On Friday, June 16th, 1775, Bunker Hill
was seized and fortified.
	On Friday, June 7th, 1776, in Congress,
a motion was made by John Adams, and
seconded by Richard Henry Lee, that the
United Colonies were, and of right ought to
be, free and independent.
	On Friday, October 7th, 1777, the surren-
der of Saratoga was made, which had such
powerful influence in inducing France to
declare for our cause.
	On Friday, September 22d, 1780, the trea-
son of Arnold was laid bare, which saved.
	On Friday, October 19th, 1781, occurred
the surrender of Yorktown—the crowing
glory of the American arms.
	Thus, by numerous examples, we see
that, however it may be with other nations,
Americans need never dread to begin any
understaking on Friday, however important
or momentous it may be.


ELECTRICTIY is now used in Scotland for
blasting purposes, and five thousand tons of
granite were recently displaced at Kemnay
by one shock from a battery.


