		TELL YOUR WIFE.
	If you are in trouble or a difficulty, tell
your wife—that is, if you have one—all
about it at once. Ten to one, her invention
will solve your difficulty sooner than all
your logic. The wit of woman has been
praised, but her instincts are quicker than
her reason. Take counsel with your wife,
or your mother, or sister, and be assured
that light will flash upon your darkness.
Women are too commonly pronounced shal-
low in all but purely womanish affairs. No
philosophical student of the sex thus judges
them. Their intuitions, or insights, are
subtile, and if they cannot see a cat in the
dark cupboard, there is no cat there.
	In counseling a man to tell his wife, we
would go further, and advise him to keep
none of his affairs from her. Many a home
has been happily saved and many a fortune
retrieved by man’s confidence in his “better
half.” Woman is far more a seer and a
prophet than a man, if she have a fair
chance. As a general rule, wives confide
their minutest plans and thoughts to their
husbands, having no involvements to screen
from them. Why not reciprocate, if but for
the pleasure of meeting confidence with
confidence?
	We are certain that no man succeeds so
well in the world as he who, taking a part-
ner for life, makes her the partner of all his
purposes and hopes. What is wrong of his
impulses or judgment she will check and
make right with her almost univerally right
instincts.
	"Help-meet was no insignificant title, as
applied to man's companion. She is a meet-
help to him in every darkness, difficulty,
and sorrow of life. And what she most
craves, and most deserves, is confidence—
without which love is never free from
shadow.
	Why is kissing your sweetheart like
eating soup with a fork? Because it takes
a long time to get a enough of it.
	BRINGING A SISTER TO TERMS.
	Sister.—“If you don’t give up making
that noise with your drum, I’ll call ma.”
Juvenile.—“Do, and I’ll tell her how the par-
son hugged you last night whenyou let him
out.” (Sister subsides.)
       ANECDOTE OF DR. JOHNSON.
	Andrew Miller was a principal proprietor
of Dr. Johnson’s Dictionary, and the man-
ager or treasurer of the fund out of which
payments were from time to time made to
the author. When the work was com-
pleted, Andrew was so overjoyed, that he
sent the following acknowledgment of the
receipt of the last sheet of the manuscript.
	“Andrew Miller sends his compliments
to Mr. Samuel Johnson, with the money for
the last sheet of copy of the Dicitionary, and
thanks God he has done with him."
	Which drew from Johnson this keen
retort:
	“Samuel Johnson returns his compliments
to Mr. Andrew Miller, and is very glad to
find, as he does by his note, that Andrew
Miller has the grace to thank God for any-
thing.”
		SHE HAD THEM THERE.
	A lady in town chances to be unfortunate
in the opinion of some of her neighbors.
A physician has of late been necessitated to
visit her family rather frequently. There
being no hitching post before the lady’s own
door, the doctor several times fastened his
horse to a post in front of a neighbor’s resi-
dence. This he was shortly warned not to
do again. So, when next the Æsculapius

[Column 2]
made his appearance, he asked the lady who
was at one of the windows of the house,
where he should “tie up.”
	“Let the horse stand,” was the prompt
reply “the neighbors will watch him for
you!"
	Enough of those same neighbors heard
the complimentary remark—we only hope
it did them good.
			HABITS.
	Like flakes of snow, that fall upon the
earth, the seemingly unimportant events of
life succeed one another. As the snow
gathers together, so are habits formed ; no
single flake that is added to the pile pro-
duces a sensible change; no single action
creates, however it may exhibit, a man’s
character; but as the tempest hurls the ava-
lanche down the mountain, and overwhelms
the inhabitant and his habitation, so passion,
acting on the elements of mischief, which 
pernicious habits have brought together by
imperceptible accumulations, may overthrow
the edifice of truth and virtue.


