     ﻿MAN AND WOMAN IN LOVE.

	“Every one must have noticed the great
difference, as a general thing, between the
conduct of the betrothed man and the young
betrothed woman,” says a cute observer of
engagements among young people. “He,
the braver and stronger of the two, is
utterly confused and bashful, and seeks to
make a secret of the fact. She, on the con-
trary, tries to parade it, is proud of it,
assumes a certain air of proprietorship over
him, and offers to her friends little delicate
confidences as to how nice it is to be en-
gaged, and how dreadfully jealous he his
if she looks at anybody else. The cause of
this is just one thing—the man is in love
the woman is not. I have studied human
nature, have looked into the depth of hearts;
I have made man and woman the study of
my life, and I aver that the girl in love is
rarer than a black rose. She simply has for
her lover the same feeling that the young
mother has for her babe. She has an
anxious desire to see him for life, to make
sure that he is comfortable, that he is in
love with her, and rejoices in the knowledge.
The idea of losing his love is madness to
her, but of herself she does not understand
it. A woman who is not selfish and greedy
and mean, who can have her fine clothes and
a grand establishment, overflows with the
mother’s feeling all her life. She expends
it on her dolls in childhood, on her poodle
or her kitten, or her canary; and afterward,
when the time arrives, on her lover. Many
a man would lose a great deal of his conceit
and vanity if he knew just how the girl
whom he supposed to be in love with him
really felt. She, also, would be surprised to
hear that she was not in love at all, but only
delighted to have some one in love with
her.”


THE PARK Hill Female Seminary, at
Tahlequah, the capital of the Cherokee
Nation, which has for years been closed,
is now re-opened with fair promises of suc-
cess, and with Miss Ella M. Noyes as
superintendent. A very agreeable “Noyes”
will that talented young lady make in her
new occupation, without doubt.


