VOL. 2. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1873. NO. 12


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE OPENING of a $200,000 theatre is the
way in which Louisville describes the
effects of the panic on her.
	THE CHEAPEST and most agreeable phy-
sic to be taken by people in general, is just
sufficient healthful bodily exercise.
	A NEW material for ladies’ dresses is a
fabric woven from bamboo fibres. That it
is “new” will be a sufficient recommend for
many.
	CONTINUED FAILURES in London, caused
by the financial disturbance in America,
show how much one portion of the world is
dependent on the other.
	THE DEATH of Mme. Felix, mother of
the great Rachel, is announced by Paris
newspapers. Well, she has gone the way
that all must go sooner or later.
	THREE WOMEN in Park County, Texas,
were recently hanged for horse stealing.
That looks like equality of rights, if male
horse thieves only get the same kind of
treatment there.
	IT IS not the superior possessions of a
man, that gives him power and influence,
but the use he makes of them.	Weak
minded men often accomplishe more good
than strong ones do.
	A BALLET girl of London recently died
from injuries received from her dress catch-
ing fire on the stage.	A recommendation
was sent to the manager to provide an addi-
tional supply of blankets at the sides of the
stage.
	A MAN pays twenty-five dollars, out here
in Utah, for beating his sister-in-law. The
woman thinks the outrage might be more
graciously endured for her part, if the
money for the fine, or even half of it, was
handed over to her.
	THR CHURCH yard, which contains the
grave of the “Dairyman’s daughter,” is on
the Isle of Wight, instead of the Isle of
Man, as appears in the last number of the
EXPONENT. The mistake was noticed too
late for correction in that issue.
	A WITTY lady got off a good joke re-
cently, on a quack doctor. He told her
that he had made arrangements for practis-
ing in the country; to which she replied, “I
am truly thankful for I have always had an
opinion that you needed practice.”
	THIS YEAR, the Indians of Red River,
Wisconsin, have raised 3,000 bushels of oats,
1,000 bushels of corn, 5,000 of potatoes,
2,000 of rutabages, and 3000 tons of hay.
Much better than has been done by,white
inhabitants in many cases, in different parts
of the country.
	THE EMPRESS of Austria has received a
set of costly jewelry, made in Rome, from
the King of Italy. He might have bestowed
such a present on others, more appreciative.
But kings don’t always seek how they may
put their means which is lent them to the
best use, more than do people of less conse-
quence. 
	JUDGE WITHEY in the Constitutional
Commission of Michigan, lately urged that
women should be eligible to any office for
which they were fitted, and the people were
[Column 2]
the proper judges as to fitness. A fact that
all men should be thoroughly convinced of
by this time; but it still appears some are
not.
	HER MAJESTY, Queen Victoria, has the
surplus bedding-out plants of her public
parks and gardens, distributed among the
working classes and poor inhabitants of
London. A better example than letting
them go to waste, or making the poor folks
pay for them, or take the chances of getting
them dishonestly.
	SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION is progressing
finely in some of the States. Mr. William
Wheelwright, of Newburyport, Massachus-
etts, lately deceased, bequeathed $200,000
to aid in the establishment of a scientific
school in that place; and Mr. Ario Pardee,
of Hazelton, Pa., has appropriated the large
amount of half a million dollars for a like
purpose. The world is increaing steadly
in knowledge and in wealth, and cities that
do not have scientific schools will soon be
behind the times.
	EMILY FAITHFUL of England, who a year
ago, spent some time in this country, ascer-
taining the real position of women of America,
by personal observation, and inquiry; warns
English women against the belief that the
equality of women has been fully recog-
nized here.	 And asserts the belief that
there is still opportunity for honorable rival-
ship in witnessing which country shall first
rate woman,s work at its true value. It is a
fine subject, and an important one, for a
race between England and America, if Miss
Faithful’s views on it are correct.
	THE FARMER'S Convention at Chicago
has adopted some strong resolutions, as the
result of its deliberations, of which the fol-
lowing is the prelude:	“The duty of a
government is to protect its people. Capital
directed by unscrupulous minds rcaps  the
profits of their labor. Men of great wealth
revel in luxury, while those who earned
the money are destitute of the comforts of
life.	 Our State Legislatures have made
laws depriving us of our land, for which we
have a title from the General Government,
for the benefiit of railroad companies be-
cause it seemed for the public good. Sub-
sidies have been granted them, and Congress
has with a lavish hand given them public
lands, the people’s inheritance, and the
result is extortion, oppression.” There is
much plain truth in the above; and as
resolutions were formed for appeals to be
made to Congress for redress, something of
a benificial nature for farmers may folIow.
	THE FOLLOWING simple sketch, will be
interesting to those who have marked the
judicious course, taken by her Majesty so far
during her entire reign. The latter portion of
the paragraph, portrays the real dignity and
constancy of a true woman and Queen, and
is another testimony of her Majesty’s super-
ior personal excellence:	“Queen Victoria’s
place at Osborne is her private property,
purchased by her and the Prince Consort
some thirty years ago. It contains about
5,000 acres of wood and farm land, and the
drives  through the parks and views are
charming. It is very rarely shown to the
public. Her Majesty and family while in
Osborne attend service every Sunday morn-
ing at Whippingham Church, an ugly little
[Column 3]
chapel built in the palace park by Queen
and Prince Albert. The royal pew, a large
inclosure, is plainly furnished with a row of
stiff chairs upholstered with blue velvet.
Her Majesty's seat differs from none of the
others, but is placed immediately under a
fine mural tablet to Prince Albert, erected
in memory of the best of husbands, “by his
broken-hearted widow, Queen Victoria.”
	THE “WOMAN'S Journal” of November
1st says:“The New Jersey abortion case,
exciting local public attention, recently,
displays the perils of modern society in a
warning light. A “clairvoyant,” Mrs. Metz-
ler kept a candy store near a public school
in Jersey City, and used her opportunities
of contact with young girls for the most im-
moral purposes. On her premises were
found bundles of letters in answer to an
advertisement of hers, most of them from
girls and of a most painful character. “The
victim in one instance was the daughter of
a printer’s widow, and was endeavoring to
support the rest of the family by working
for the Domestic sewing machine company
in New York at $8 per week. Her business
was to instruct buyers and agents how to
run the machine. The manager of the
department in which she worked, Alonzo E.
Kimball, is undoubtedly her seducer and
responsible for her death. Dr. J. E. Comins
of New York has been arrested as the medi-
cal felon. We hope the chief criminals will
experience all the severity of the law in its
freshest vigor.” If there are laws existing,
sufficiently severe, to deal justice to such
lawless, diabolical outrages of humanity, it
is time that they were put in force, more
rigorously than is generally the case in
such instances as that related above.
	WOMAN'S RIGHTS in Germany, are, ap-
parently working their way to complete
recognition in the most certain and effective
manner. We find the following on the
subject, in an exchange, which we deem
good enough to publish without comment:
“At Munich most of the clerks and book-
keepers in the banks are young and handsome
girls (although the latter is not an essential
qualification.) At the railway depots many
of the ticket-sellers are girls. At the “cafes”
all the cashiers are of the same sex. The
result has been that girls are found, as a
general rule more expert in mental arithme-
tic, in figures generally, than the men.
The Germans themselves assert that the
reason for the employment of girls  is that
the young men are too fast; that where they
don’t drink strong liquor (coffee, beer or
wine being the extent of their libations),
they devote the best part of the day to cafes
and beer saloons, playing billiards, chatting,
or studying the plates in the numerous
illustrated papers. By these habits they
totally unfit themselves for the staid pur-
suits of the office and counting-room, and
their places are being filled with girls, who
show a wonderful aptitude for these callings.
Throughout Germany, wherever females
can be employed, they are taken in prefer-
ence to young men. If the  experiment
should have the effort of widening the
sphere of Woman’s usefulness, and, as it
ought, shaming young men into better be-
havior, it will be one of the most valuable
lessons the decade has taught.”


