[Vol8 | August 1921 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Hymn of Praise Reynold Ahleen]

hymn of purely worshipful expression? 10. If you regard the word kindred especially effective, as used by the author in the line, "To bear a kindred spirit home," tell why? 11. List the words that suggest light in the stanza beginning, "'Tis well with the departed one." 12. Explain and expand the thought in the lines: "Ere long the resurrection day Will spread its light and truth abroad. 
 Ere Jesus Christ will re-appear Surrounded by a glorious throng." 13. Find out how often the author has made use of the name of a flower or the words, jewel and treasure in the lesson. 14. List the three most important theological thoughts in "O, my Father." LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in October) THE PURPOSE OF PUBLIC EDUCATION Civilization develops in large measure through the accumulation of knowledge acquired by each generation and transmitted to succeeding generations. Illustrative of this is knowl- - edge of the arts of writing, reading, and arithmetic; also the sciences, physical, biological and social; and the great productions of art, music, and literature; in fact, everything that is taught in the schools and much besides. Thus it becomes one of the primary purposes of the schools to transmit to each new generation the social inheritance of the race. The simplest and most essential things are taught in the elementary school; more complex things, in the high school; and still more complex, in the college; the university, when fully developed, is the conservator of all the knowledge and scientific technical skill that has thus far been acquired by the race; the university also aims to extend this knowledge by research. A second purpose of the school is to contribute toward the physical, intellectual, and moral development of each child, that he may become a more serviceable member of society. This purpose is accomplished in part through the process of acquiring the social inheritance of the race, but this is not sufficient; attention must be given to the development of each individual by cultiation of his native abilities and formation of desirable habits. The following aspects of public school work are designed especially to this end: 1. The health education program, which aims to supplement instruction with systematic and persistent training in health habits. Here practice counts for much more than knowledge merely. It is quite possible for a student to acquire very much of the GUIDE LESSONS 491 world's store of knowledge about hygiene and, at the same time, to live quite contrary to fundamental rules of hygiene. 2. The civic education program, designed to give the kind of knowledge and intellectual power that will enable the pupil to solve social problems as they arise. This is the primary purpose of the courses in practical civics; practical means that theory is supplemented with practice in performance of simple civic duties, such as participation in "cleaning up' campaigns, improving public parks and play grounds, and making playground apparatus. 3. The character education program.. The task yet remains to give more definite form to this program. Its aims are fairly well defined?to develop a socialized conscience, a sense of social responsibility and sympathetic attitude toward fellow-men, a knowledge of their needs and a disposition to respond to these needs; in scriptural language, "Share ye one another's burdens." This phase of public school education is closely related to religious education. Its purpose can be accomplished only in cooperation with parents, church, and other community workers. Public school teachers will welcome such co-operation. QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES 1. (a) How can parents co-operate with teachers in eliminating tardiness in school attendance? (b) Why is it important to do so? 2. Why is regularity in attendance necessary to realization of the purposes of the schools? 3. (a) Why is it very important that a youth of today receive a high school education? (b) Why is it more important now than it was a generation ago? 4. What are some of the advantages of a college education? 5. Why is character education the most important purpose of public education? 6. What is the relation of character education to religious education? 7. What are the relative responsibilities of the school and the home in the character education of children? 8. In what ways may teachers and parents support each other in the character training of children?