[Vol8 | August 1921 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Mother's Stories Sarah E. Moody]

Mother's Stories Sarah E. Moody About thirty-five years ago, Father and Mother Davis lived in a little village in Utah. At the particular time that my story opens, Mother Davis was washing the supper dishes, and Father Davis had gone out to see that the boys had finished the chores, and when both were finished, father came in and said: "It is time to call the children in; we must get at our Bible-reading." Mother Davis peeped into the cradle to see if baby was all right, then went out to the vacant lot where the children of the neighborhood were playing a spirited game of "rounders." Ten-year-old Fred and eight-year-old Harry were so interested in the game that they did not notice their mother. She stood watching the game and gloried in Fred's triumph as he "run the ganders'" and won back the innings for his side. Mother felt the beauty of the night and wondered which was stronger, the twilight or the moonlight. She glanced at the big moon overhead and thought: "What a glorious time to play." She longed to sit down on the grass and enjoy the evening and the play, but duty was duty and she called the boys to her and told them they must come in. "Oh, please let us stay for one more game," pleaded the boys. "Very well, I'll watch you play just one more game, then you must come." The game was finally finished, and still the boys were unwilling to leave their play, but mother was firm this time. "Father has been waiting for a long time," she said, "Anyhow, worth-while boys meet duty bravely, as well as play." Father was a little out of patience that they had waited so long, and when he saw them come in sulky and unwilling, he felt almost disappointed that children seemed to always rebel at the beautiful truths taught in the Scriptures, which were allin-all to him. Mother lighted the coal oil lamp, and father, with his Bible, took his place at the table and told the children to gather round at once. "Let's see—it's the fourth chapter of Samuel, isn't it?" asked father as he turned to the place. He read the first paragraph. Then handed the Bible to mother who read the second, Fred read 
 the third and Harry stumbled through the fourth. Thus it went the rounds until the twenty-two paragraphs were finished. The boy's faces brightened at the thought of being through, but only for a moment. "Who did Samuel go to battle against, Fred?" asked father. "T can "t—remember—just now," faltered Fred. He put the same question to Harry "T don't know," answered Harry indifferently. Tather asked a number of other questions with about the same result. Again he was disappointed in their lack of interest and he insisted on their reading it over again. "And I want you to pay attention to what you are reading, too," he finished. The chapter was reread, then was followed by a hymn and a long prayer. The play outside had ceased by this time, and there was nothing to do but go to bed. As the boys reached the top of the stairs with a candle-stick in hand, Harry said, "I despise that old Bible, anyway." "Sh," said Fred, "I do, too, but we must not let father hear " us. After the children had retired, father and mother had a little talk all by themselves. Father expressed his disappointment, and said, "I cannot understand why the children are so often rebellious at reading the Bible. It is the wish of my life that they grow up with a knowledge of, and faith in, the gospel." "T feel the same way," said mother, "and I have been wondering if we are getting at it the right way. The children read poorly, and they don't seem to be able to answer the questions at all; perhaps they don't understand it." After talking for some time they decided that one of them would do all the reading. For several evenings afterward they tried this with little better results. Then mother suggested that she do the reading, and father explain each chapter. This seemed a little improvement, but he didn't have a way of putting it into child language, and soon they began to think father was preaching to them. All through the long summer days father and mother tried every way they could think of, but still they did not feel that their religious training was a success, but they were very persistent, and rain or shine, ill or well, the religious service was carried out. They began to wonder what next they could do to make the Bible more attractive to them, but before they found the remedy, a change came into their home. After the crops had all been gathered in and. Put on the market, the returns were. So inadequate that Father Davis de- MOTHER'S STORIES 445 cided to resort to his old trade of carpenter, and get work in the near-by mining camp for the winter. Though this was only 'twenty miles distant, father could not come home oftener than once a month, as there was no way to make the trip but to go on horseback or in a wagon. When the time came to go, Mother Davis and the children bade him good-by with regret and with forebodings of loneliness, and Mother Davis was left to work out her problem alone. Ciie first evening when the chores were finished and supper over, the boys begged to go over to Peterson's, as the Peterson children were going to parch corn and make molasses candy. To the boys' astonishment mother answered, "All right, baby and I will go with you and visit with Mrs. Peterson. It will be too lonely here alone." The change was a rare treat to the boys, sind they made the most of it. When they were at home again and the boys were up stairs going to bed, Harry said—"I "do believe that mother forgot all about the reading." "Well let's never remind her of it. I hope she will forget it all the time," answered Fred. Instead of forgetting, however, mother was thinking unusually hard all evening, and she got a new thought, too. The next evening when reading time came the boys suggested doing many things to divert their mother, but finally when she had finished mixing bread she took baby in her lap and sat down in her favorite rocker before the fire and asked—"How would you like to hear a story, children?" "Oh, yes; tell us a story!" they all shouted at once, and this is the story Mother Davis told:: Long, long ago when Jesus lived on the earth, a great crowd of people were flocking after him trying to persuade him to be their king. You see, he had been going around among the sick and lame, and blind, and had made so many of them strong and well and happy, that thousands of people thought what a powerful king he would make; but Jesus told them that he could not be their earthly king, because he had come to do God's work, and it kept him busy all the time trying to teach the people how to live so that God would love and bless them. One day he had talked or preached to the people since early morning, but every time he stopped and went away, the big crowd followed him and gave him no peace until he talked to them again. Some followed him because they were determined to persuade him to be king, some, because they were anxious to see 
 him do some more miracles, and others because they loved him and were anxious to learn all they could. I think Jesus did not stop even long enough to eat and drink that day, and in the afternoon he became very tired, and went over to the Sea of Galilee where a boat was lying in the harbor. He got in the boat with some of his disciples and took a seat, and thought he would go across the sea where he was going to preach and heal some more sick people, but when he looked back on the shore, more people than he could count had him to talk a little longer. For him to talk a little longer. As he was not in a hurry to leave, he preached to them from his seat in the boat, and told them stories and parables until it was nearly night, and so the disciples who were with him, started the boat across the sea. Jesus was so tired that he lay down in the boat and went to sleep. The sea was not large; it was more like our Utah Lake, and the water was calm and the sky was clear when they started but they had not gone far, when great, black, clouds began to roll upward in the sky, and rumbling thunder was heard. The clouds grew blacker, and the thunder roared louder, and the lightning flashed. Soon a terrific wind came up, and dashed the little boat so furiously against the mad waves, that the men could not control it. The storm grew worse and worse, and the waves dashed higher until the boat was full of water, and the men were all wet through. They were afraid that the great waves would dash over the little ship and sink it, and they would all be drowned. The men thought of Jesus and were surprised that he had slept through the awful storm. They came to him and said— "Master, awake, a great temptest is raging, and we shall all perish!" Jesus was no doubt surprised to be awakened like this. He did not take time to stretch and yawn, but went to the edge of the boat and looked out at the fierce storm. He looked like a great king and his face was bright with divine power as he calmly stretched his hands over the mad waters and said, "Peace, be still! Peace, be still!" All of a sudden the wind died down, the thunder and lightning stopped and all was calm and beautiful. Jesus looked at his disciples who were trembling still, and asked them why they were so frightened, and if they did not have faith that God would protect them? They looked at Jesus and thought, what a good and mighty man he was, and they felt that they would always follow his teachings and be worthy of his love and protection. MOTHER'S STORIES 447 At the close of the story, the children asked questions and discussed the story with much interest, until mother heard them say their prayers and sent them to bed with the promise of another story the next evening. Night after night the children begged for stories and mother was always ready. If any member of the family was ill or too tired, if there was to be a party or game in the neighborhood, or at their own home, the stories were dispensed with. In fact they were never forced on the children but were always sought. The long winter evenings passed by happily and spring carne. Father Davis came home again to put in the crops and work on the farm. A couple of evenings passed, then father felt that they had spent enough time visiting, and that the Bible reading must be resumed, so he called in the children, and as he went to look for the Bible said: "Mother, I hope you haven't neglected reading the Bible with the children while I was away?" Before she had time to answer, Harry piped out: "We haven't looked at a Bible since you left." Father gave mother a look of astonishment as he asked, "Ts that possible?" "T am afraid it is," answered mother, '"but'"— "T am surprised," interrupted father, "we have made so much sacrifice for the gospel. "Iwas for that we left our homes and friends in England; 'twas for that we accepted a call to colonize out here and again left our home and friends, 'tis for that we are giving our time and money and our best efforts. It seems a piece of gross neglect to fail to teach the children the Holy Scriptures and to bring them up with a knowledge of the gospel." "Why father," said Fred, enthusiastically, "we have learned more about the Bible and the love of God this winter than we could have learned in twenty years reading it. You ought to hear the stories mother told us every night. She told us all about 'Joseph Sold into Egypt; 'Daniel in the Lion's Den; 'Moses in the Bullrushes;' 'David and Goliath; 'The three men in the Fiery Furnace;' She told us all about Jesus, and lots of other stories. We don't understand the reading, father, please let us have some more stories." Father's face wore a look of astonishment for the second time that night. He closed the Bible slowly, looked across the table with a smile and said—''Well, mother, I think you have solved the problem. Will you tell us another story?" Mother answered—'I wanted the children to grow up with a love for the gospel just as you did, but I saw that they were 
 not learning to love it, but were learning to dislike it and when I was left alone with the responsibility, 1 thought a great deal and prayed a great deal, and decided that we could not force religion into their hearts, but must plant the seeds in a way that they would take root and grow voluntarily. I have been thinking lately, however, that as the boys grow older, they will want to find these stories for themselves and learn to understand them, and that they will really enjoy hearing the very words and language of Christ and the great prophets." "How would it do to find the stories you have told and have them read, and then let the boys retell them?" suggested father. "Let me tell about David killing the giant," clamored Harry. "Joseph sold into Egypt for me," chimed in Fred. The problems of teaching religion was solved in the Davis home. The boys, and others who came later, grew up with a love for, and of knowledge of, the Bible. Most of them have filled honorable missions, and all. Hold responsible positions in the Church, and they all cherish the wise teachings of their worthy parents.