[Vol8 | August 1921 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: From Zion to Jerusalem]

From Zion to Jerusalem The editor subscribed some months ago to the Palestine W eekly, which is published in the city of Jerusalem, and has received the following letter straight from Jerusalem: Madame: We beg to acknowledge with thanks receipt of five dollars, through the Anglo Palestine Bank, for yearly subscription to the Palestine Weekly, from April 22, 1921, to April 22, 1922. Yours truly, From The Palestine Weekly. On the envelope appears the following superscription on the left hand side, and on the right hand side is the same superscription in Hebrew characters with two Hebrew stamps in the center: Bowid "Dora Hayom" "Palestine Weekly" "Barid El Yaum" Published in Jerusalem. _The letter furnishes a most interesting memento of the work going forward between Zion and Jerusalem. Very many troubles are encountered by the eager Zionists who are inspired, many of them, by zeal, but who lack the substantial foundation of practicality which goes to make up commercial success. There has been considerable trouble between the delegates who came over here from Europe recently with the famous Dr. Epstein in the party, and the American officers of the Zionist organization. From all accounts the European officers object to the straight business methods of the practical Americans who furnish most of the money, and who therefore insist upon proper accounting of funds. It is unfortunate, but to be expected, that there would be trouble brewing among such vast numbers of raw recruits controlled by men who sometimes lack business acumen and sometimes lack unselfish devotion to the cause. However, the work will go on no matter what individuals may fall by the way-side. Dr. Epstein spent the months of May and June visiting cities in Ohio, Michigan, Indiana and Kentucky. The riots which broke out in Jaffa, Palestine, were so serious that martial law was declared, and the following account comes to us from Jerusalem: 
 RIOTS IN PALESTINE CONTINUE—MARTIAL LAW DECLARED The Zionist Organization of America has received the following cable from the Zionist Commission of Jerusalem:; The May day demonstration which Jewish workingmen held in Jaffa last Sunday and which ended in a massacre of Jews, had been permitted by the local authorities. The demonstration was absolutely peaceful and orderly, although a handful of Communists tried to create disturbances. The Arabs took advantage of the occasion to attack Jews in the streets and to loot Jewish stores. The Arabian masses have been constantly incited by men who are opposed to the British mandate and to a Jewish homeland in Palestine. There is a strong suspicion that last Sunday's massacre was not a chance occurrence, but had been carefully planned and prepared by anti-Jewish Arabs. Arab demonstrants at Ramalah yesterday attempted to interrupt railway traffic between Jerusalem and Jaffa, but their efforts were frustrated by the British troops who hurriedly arrived on the scene, 'Sir Herbert Samuel has appointed a commission to investigate the origin of the riots in Jaffa last week. The Jewish interests are represented by Mr. Harry Sacher, editor of the Palestine Weekly, and Captain Horace Samuel, member of the legal department of the Palestine administration. PROCLAIM MAY 29, 30, AS SHEKEL DAYS Fellow Zionists: After a lapse of nearly eight years since the Vienna Zionist Congress, the 12th Congress is to be convened in the City of Carlsbad, Czecho-Slovakia, on September 4, 1921. It will have. To deal with many important issues bearing on the upbuilding of Palestine and of great concern to the entire Jewish people.: In order to enable every Zionist to vote for delegates to the Congress, let the 29th and 30th days of may, 1921, be set aside as Shekel Days. All Zionist. Districts as well as individual members are hereby requested and instructed to inaugurate a vigorous shekel campaign on those two days among unregistered Zionists and sympathizers with the cause. Only Shekel payers are entitled to vote for delegates to the Congress. DRAFT PROGRAM OF BDTH ANNUAL CONVENTION Opening Session—Sunday, June 5 All sessions will be held at Hotel Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio. Registration of Delegates, 1. Opening of Convention by President, Judge Julian M. Mack. 2. Addresses of Welcome. P 3. Selection of Credentials Committee. 4. President's message. 5. Memorial for prominent Zionists who died during the past year. 6. Addrésses by visitors. | 7. Nomination and election officers of Convention. 8. Reading of Communications. 9, Presentation of Annual Reports. 10. Selection of Committee on Committees, FROM ZION TO JERUSALEM 457 11. Consideration of resolutions. 12. Nomination and election of officers. LOUIS CANTOR ACTIVE AS PALESTINE'S SANITARY ENGINEER Water supply, sewerage of towns, drainage of the large swamp areas throughout Palestine, and general sanitation of public buildings, are among the activities which Louis Cantor, recently appointed sanitary engineer for the Government of Palestine, will inaugurate. The position is logical development of the activities of the American Zionists' Medical Unit, whose sanitary engineer, Mr. Cantor, has been during the past two years. Speaking of his work, Mr. Cantor writes: "The Jerusalem drainage for the northwest district consisting of over 5,000 meters of sewer lines with complete disposal works, is now a working reality, House connections are under full swing, and the first section of modern sewerage in Palestine can well be recommended as worthy expenditure by the Zionists towards promoting the sanitary conditions of the land." Mr. Cantor in his new office is held responsible for all sanitation work in Palestine.; IMPORTANT DATES IN HISTORY OF JEWISH CONGRESS First Resolution in favor of such a body to deal with the problems arising out of the war adopted at the extraordinary conference held at Hotel Marseille, Aug. 30, 1914. Formation of first Jewish Congress Committee, August 19, 1915. Preliminary Conference for American Jewish Congress held, in Philadelphia, March 26, 27, 1916. Amalgamation Conference effecting union of all Jewish forces on Congress program, held at Hotel Savoy, New York, December 25, 1916. Election of Delegates to Congress, June 10, 1917.; First Session of the Congress held at Philadelphia December 15- 16-17, 1918, Second session of the Congress to receive report of Commission to Peace Conference, May 30, 1920. A lle of Provisional Organization for Permanent Congress May 5 L A STRIKING EDITORIAL The Boston Transcript writes a beautiful editorial on the removal of an aged Jew, Hymon Simon, of Salem, Massachusetts, to Jerusalem in Palestine. The writer refers to the meaning of the word Salem and says: There is a story in the words themselves. In the first place, why is Salem Salem? Because the Puritan founders of the city proposed to make it the City of Peace. To the Jewish poets, Jerusalem, though the "higher critics" may assign another origin to the name, is "Salem," the City of Peace; and the early Puritans at our Salem, in scornfully rejecting the local "Heathen" name of Naumkeag, dreamed of their city as the American Jerusalem. Bible people, Old Testament people, they continued the Hebrew tradition, as best they could, on New England | 
 ®. Soil. In the Same spirit the townsmen of Boston named Salem Street; and it was Ot strange that the veritable children of Israel, arriving later, should feel quite at home both in Salem and in ut here is one father in Israel at the American Salem (he is well entitled to the name, Hyman Simon js Said to be ninety years old), abandoning the New England Salem for the City of Peace in Palestine, ter centuries of wars and pPression, Jerusalem once more Merits the name of the Abode of Peace; and the American Israelite, born in Poland, Whose feet brought him Sixteen Years ago to Salem, in Massachusetts, fany will, at One moment or another, 80 back to the venerable Hyman Simon, Perhaps the reconstitution of Salem of Judea: will serve to renew in Some measure the sy 8estion of the Old Testament Origin The destiny of Nations Are in thy mighty hand! €n come sore tribulations, € Pray thee, 'by us Stand! In holiness thou dwellest 3 rom thy Celestia] throne Omnipotent, thou rulest_ hou, Lord, art King alone!