[Vol8 | August 1921 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for October - Lesson II Work and Business]
Guide  Lessons  for  October 
LESSON  I 
Theology  and  Testimony 
(First  Week  in  October) 
MARRIAGE 
Celestical  marriage  is  the  union  for  time  and  for  all  eternity 
of  husband  and  wife.  To  be  of  such  effect  it  must  be  solemn- 
ized by  the  President  of  the  Church  who  alone  holds  the  keys 
of  the  sealing  power,  or  by  some  man  duly  authorized  by  the 
President  of  the  Church.  In  ancient  Hebrew  days  no  doubt  this 
was  understood  and  practiced.  ^^larriage  is  an  ordinance  which 
pertains  to  life  on  the  earth  :  and  yet  when  entered  into  under 
the  celestial  law  the  effects  of  this  ordinance,  like  that  of  bap- 
tism, and  the  receiving  of  the  Priesthood  itself  is  continued  on 
throughout  the  endless  ages.  The  world's  definition  of  marriage 
is  that  marriage  is  a  civil  or  a  religious  contract,  or  both,  entered 
into  between  a  man  and  a  woman  for  the  protection  of  the  chil- 
dren and  for  the  perpetuation  of  decent  family  life.  If  men 
were  not  bound  by  a  stern  contract  before  the  law.  many  of  them 
would  fail  in  their  duty  to  support  the  wife  and  children  and 
would  leave  them  at  will.  But  all  governments  have  laws  which 
protect  the  wife  and  children,  financially  and  morally. 
Marriage  is  and  was  instituted  primarily  for  the  purpose 
of  perpetuating  the  race  through  the  bearing  and  rearing  of 
children.  If  there  are  no  children  the  purpose  of  the  union  is 
but  half  fulfilled. 
Xo  other  people  on  the  earth,  so  far  as  is  known,  teaches 
the  doctrine  of  marriage  for  time  and  eternity,  and  certainly 
none  have  the  authority  to  seal  for  eternity,  except  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Poets,  and  lovers  have  indulged  in  flights  of  fancy 
and  poetry  which  carry  a  longing"  hope  for  a  certain  acquaint- 
ance in  their  spiritualized  relation  after  death,  but  no  Qiristian 
presumes  to  announce  such  a  hope  as  his  belief.  The  Buddhists 
who  believe  in  re-incarnation,  hold  that  a  man  and  woman  may 
be  embodied  again  and  again,  and  perhaps  both  at  the  same  per- 
iod of  time  ;  so  that  if  they  loved  in  a  former  incarnation  they 
might  again  marry.  This  thought  forms  the  motif  of  some  well- 
known  modern  novels. 
All  Christian  sects  interpret  the  saying  of  the  Savior,  "For