[Vol8 | August 1921 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Madame Curie]

Madame Curie A Great Woman and a Great Event. We are fortunate in presenting to our readers this month an interview with Dr. Samuel H. Allen, of this city, who was present in Washington, D. C., at the time of the presentation of a gramme of radium to the French discoverer, Madame Curie. Most Americans are familiar with the name of this famous woman, and her husband, who died recently leaving the Madame with the care of their two daughters and the no less great care and responsibility connected with their French laboratery now of world-wide fame. Madame Curie shares with her husband the distinction and the great honor of the discovery of radium.. Since her husband's death she has steadily pursued further investigations and demonstrations as to the application of this rare element to human needs. The radium, as she and other scientists and physicians have found will in minute quantities destroy diseased tissues, and its power of penetration is almost unbelievable. No known substance, not even the human body, is entirely proof against its action and reaction. In the late war it was invaluable and was used extensively for the benefit of wounded soldiers. Dr. Allen has been spending some time in the Dr. Howard A. Kelly laboratory at Baltimore, investigating the recent methods of using this all powerful curative agency. Dr. Howard A. Kelly himself owns five grammes of radium which is the largest amount possesed by any individual in the world. This amount of radium is worth over a half-million dollars and yet in substance it would not be over a teaspoonful. Dr. Kelly, it might be said in passing, has visited this city and is always liberal and fair to our people. He was present also at this event in the White House. Dr. Allen, as has been said, was in the East at the time of the presentation, and he received from Serra- 
 tor Smoot a cordial invitation to be one of the guests at the reception. We are happy to know that Utah was so gallantly represented on this occasion. It should be stated here that radium is never by any chance taken as a medicine nor used as a poultice; all advertisements that carry the idea are plain frauds. An amusing instance of this was brought out in the White House reception. One of the physicians present exhibited a pound of so called radium pills which he presented to Madame Curie with the caustic remark that if the advertisement on the box was correct as to the amount of radium necessary to cure the ailments advertised the patient would need to eat four thousand, four hundred and ' four one-hundred pound barrels of the pills to get the amount of radium advertised on the pill box. Dr. Allen not only attended the presentation reception in the White House, he was likewise a guest at her reception given later in the National Museum in Washington;-and he also went up to the Philadelphia Woman's College, when the president of that famous woman's pioneer medical college conferred the honorary degree of Doctor of Medicine on Madame Curie. It will be recalled that this is the college where Dr. Romania B. Penrose and other Utah women physicians graduated. Many people ask if Madame Curie, who looks fragile and worn, does not have very poor health. These are the facts about this celebrated woman: When the war broke out the men who were working in the laboratory with her went to the front leaving her and her daughters to manage the laboratory, where she did such marvelous work; she handled the great masses of coal, tons of rock from which the radium is extracted and worked as hard as any miner could work; in addition to this there was the constant menace of the Germans entering Paris while the great carnage among the French soldiers affected her very deeply. These things will enable our readers to understand why she needed a rest and why she is nervous and spent with the events connected with her American trip. It is said: that she gave up all of her radium to be used by the physicians of the French army, and that in doing this the lives of fifty-thousand soldiers were saved.. A great-hearted American woman, Mrs. William Maloney, of New York, who discovered these conditions and found Madame Curie discouraged and almost worn out with her severe labors during the war, determined, through popular subscription, to give a gramme of radium to the famous discoverer, and the splendid reception to Madame Curie in Washington was the result. MADAME CURIE 437 We call the attention of our readers to the graphic speech of Pres. Warren G. Harding, part of which, in the opinion of Dr. Allen, will be used in our school books as a tribute to the motherhood of America, second only in importance and literary beauty to the speech of Abraham Lincoln at Gettysburg. It is a chaste. Eloquent tribute to a woman and to women, the like of which has seldom been uttered. The relations of woman's life is therein measured in most accurate and inspired values. Dr. Allen himself calls attention to the emphasis placed upon the mother's calling; and his keen eye measured to the full the modesty of the great woman's simple and plain apparel. Not much behind her example in this respect are the seemly gowns worn by the From left to right: Mrs, Malony, Mrs. Harding, Mme. Curie, Prest. Harding, Miss Curie, Miss Curie, Mons. Jusserand, Mme. Jusserand. White House in the background. At the extreme right near top of picture, Dr. Allen. Leading women of the nation who were grouped about ler. The following is the story of this wonderful event as related by our well-known physician, Dr. Samuel H. Allen: "The women of America, through President Warren G. Harding, gave one gramme of radium to Madame Marie Curie on May 20, 1921, at Washington, D. C., "The simple but ever memorable ceremony of presenting this generous gift took place in the Gold Room of the White House. It was an exclusive affair and for my invitation, sincere thanks are due to Senator Reed Smoot. The inscription the card said: 'Be present at the White House at 4:00 p. M., sharp.' "It has been my privilege to see the Pope of Rome, the 
 King and Queen of England, and six of our United States Presidents; I have also seen many other noted people in my time—noted generals and admirals; people who have won fame in every line of human endeavor; but I do not remember ever being quite so keenly interested in seeing any other noted person as I was in seeing the woman who, with her husband, discovered radium. Perhaps this is the most wonderful discovery of this wonderful century, or any other century for that matter. "At 4 p. M., the Gold Room was comfortably filled; at 4:30 all the standing room was taken and there appeared to be about three-hundred people present. "Ambassador Jusserand of France was an early and prominent guest; other ambassadors and foreign, diplomats were pointed out as they arrived. Members of President Harding's cabinet with their wives, also Mrs. Harding, were on time. Secretaries Hoover and Hughes, Doctor Alexander Graham Bell, Senator Depew, General Sawyer, Mrs. William Maloney, the President's physician and our only woman congressman, Mrs. Robinson of Oklahoma, were easily recognized. Then there were presidents of many state and national women's organizations, physicians, chemists, physicists, and radium workers from all over the United States. - "At 4:45 p. M., a deep silence fell on that noted but noisy gathering as President Harding came in with Madame Curie on his arm and took their places. All eyes were focused on the guest of honor. What a contrast between this plainly dressed little woman and some of the wonderfully gowned ladies in the room. She wore a small, neat, black hat, with lace collarette, a thin shoulder wrap of light material over a plain, high-necked and long-sleeved black dress. Half a century of time and hard work have silvered her hair, made some wrinkles in her kindly face, but have not dimmed her dark flashing eyes. What a rare mortal! An original thinker, a discoverer of miracle-working metal to bless mankind!: "As soon as the President and Madame Curie were seated, Ambassador Jusserand arose, and with deep emotion in his voice, said, "Mr, President, I have the distinguished honor of presenting to you the discoverer of radium—Madame Curie. _[ Prolonged applause]. France again wishes to say she sincerely appreciates the generous friendship of America. This occasion testifies in a most eloquent way that the great-hearted women of America are always doing noble and worthy deeds.' (Applause. ) "Mrs. Maloney of New York, the moving spirit in this great and humanitarian presentation, then arose, placed her hand on the box which contained the precious metal and said: 'Mr. Presi- MADAME CURIE 439 dent, in behalf of the women of America I present to you this gramme of radium for Madame Curie.' (Applause.) "President Harding then came forward, saluted the guest of honor and made a brief, but very eloquent presentation speech. Madame Curie was affected, but remained calm while she responded in plain but broken English with a few words, thus accepting this wonderful gift. Pres. Harding said in part: ""On behalf of the American nation,' said Mr. Harding, 'I greet and welcome you to our country, in which you will everywhere find the most cordial possible reception. We welcome you as an adopted daughter of France, our earliest supporter among the great nations. We greet you as a native born daughter of Poland; newest, as it is also among the oldest, of the great nations, and always bound by ties of closest sympathy to our own Republic. In you we see the representative of Poland restored and reinstated to its rightful place, of France valiantly maintained in the high state which has ever been its right. We greet bv le 5 Prest, Harding and
not proper to use it; because it is a most powerful agent and can do harm as well as good. "Tt should be remembered also that there is always a gang of unscrupulous quacks advertising radium pills, radium waters, and radium pads for the cure of all human ills. These are swindles and do not contain a particle of radium. "The world's supply of radium comes mostly from the carnotite ore which is mined in Colorado and eastern Utah. "The chemist analyzes all known substances and separates them into their fundamental parts or elements. He finds these parts or elements to be different, the one from the other, and yet, he is unable to convert the one into the other. "In analyzing a piece of rock, for example, the chemist may find that it contains several elements, such as gold, silver, copper, lead, bismuth sodium, uranium, or radium. New elements are being discovered all the time. "The elements, copper, gold, lead, sulphur, iron, tin, carbon were discovered before there was any human history written. The names of their wonderful discoverers are always interesting, but they have been lost in the mists of the far off ages before history began. The element platinum was discovered in 1741 by the chemist Wood. Chlorine was discovered in 1774 by Schule. Hydrogen was discovered in 1766 by Cavendish. Oxygen was discovered by Priestley, in 1774. It is the most abundant of all the elements. Oxygen and its compounds forms one half of the earth's crust. "Silicon from the Latin silex or flint is the most abundant element after oxygen. It forms sandstone, sand and glass. Aluminum, discovered in 1888 by Wohler, is the most abundant of all the metallic elements. It is found in many rocks. Some of the elements are gases, some are solids. Nitrogen was discovered in 1772 by Rutherford. Oxygen and hydrogen are gases. When two atoms of hydrogen and one atom of oxygen unite water is formed. "Potassium and sodium were discovered by Davy, in 1807. Helium was discovered by Ramsey, in 1895, and radium by Madame Curie and her husband in 1898. Nearly all the ninety or more elements have been discovered since the year 1800. Light is growing in the world, and light is truth, truth is light."