[Vol8 | August 1921 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Reynold Ahleen Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman PROGRAM OF AUXILIARY GROUP CONVENTIONS FOR 1920 To be held in connection with the regular quarterly conferences. DATES August 6 and 7: Alberta, Boise, Curlew, Raft River, South Sanpete, Summit, Wayne. August 13 and 14: Emery, Juab, Millard, Oneida, Taylor. August 20 and 21: Bannock, Blackfoot, Big Horn, Juarez. Malad, Shelley, South Sevier, Teton. August 27 and 28: Bear Lake, Bingham, Burley, Garfield, Pocatello, Portneuf, Young.. September 3 and 4: Bear River, Idaho, Moapa, Panguitch, Rigby, San Luis, Twin Falls, Uintah. September 10 and 11: Kanab, Lost River, Morgan, San Juan. September 17 and 18: Franklin, Montpelier, North Sanpete, Roosevelt, Star Valley, St. George, Union. U September 24 and 25: Carbon, Deseret, Duchesne, Fremont Parowan, Sevier. Following the October General Conference: Beaver, Benson, Tooele, Wasatch, Snowflake, North Sevier,: Hyrum, Cassia, Woodruff, St. Joseph, Tintic, St. Johns, Maricopa, Yellowstone. Separate conventions are to be held in the following stakes, the dates to be given in a separate program: Alpine, Box EIder, Cache, Cottonwood, Ensign, Granite, Jordan, Liberty, Logan, Nebo, North Davis, North Weber, Ogden, Pioneer, Salt Lake, South Davis, Utah, Weber. Prepared by the Correlation-Social Advisory Committee for the Auxiliary Boards of the Church. INSTRUCTIONS Arrangements for the holding of stake group conventions in sixty-seven stakes during 1921 have been made with the approval of the General Authorities of the Church. These group conventions will be similar to those held in 1920, with the six auxiliaries of each stake participating, and will be held on dates indicated during the period of quarterly conferences, and will 
 take the place of auxiliary conferences formerly held in these stakes. The program for these conventions requires that there shall be an attendance of all stake and ward workers of the six auxiliary organizations; that the presiding authorities, the priesthood of the stakes and wards, and the general public, shall be invited to attend; the purpose being to increase their understanding and interest in all auxiliary endeavor. It is also required that representatives of each general board shall be in attendance to further the interests of their respective organizations. Meetings are arranged that will offer practical and definite assistance to each association: General sessions where subjects of equal interest to all may be presented; separate meetings of stake boards. TIME OF MEETINGS Saturday, 10 a. M. Regular Quarterly Conference Session. Saturday, ll a. M. Five Groups: 1. Meeting of Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers. 2. Meeting of Sunday School Local Superintendents, secretaries, librarians, and all other Sunday School workers not engaged in other auxiliary organizations at that hour. 3. Joint meeting of M. I. A. Stake Boards. * 4. Meeting of Primary Association Stake Board. 5. Meeting of Religion Class Stake Board. Note: All! Visitors and others not enumerated or included in the above may attend the Relief Society or Sunday School Departments, * Saturday, 2 p. M. Regular Quarterly Conference Session. Saturday, 3 p. M. Joint department meetings, four sec- 1. Supjerintendencies' and presidencies' Department. Tions, for all auxiliaries: 2. Secretaries' and Treasurers' Department. 3. Choristers' and Organists' Department. 4. Teacher-Training Department. Note: All persons not included in these assignments may attend the M. I. A. Primary, or Religion Class Departments. Saturday Evening. Social, under the direction of Stake Presidency and Stake Social Committee (required) Sunday, 9 a. M.: 1. The Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers. 2. The Y. M. M. I. A. Stake and Ward Officers. 3. The Y. L. M. I. A. Stake and Ward. Officers. 4. Primary Association Stake and Ward Officers. NOTES FROM THE FIELD: 461 5. Religion Class Stake and Ward Officers. Note: All visitors may attend any one of these organiza- _ tions which they may prefer, except the Relief Society. These organizations will meet and dismiss separately. Sunday, 10:30 a. M. Regular Quarterly Conference Session.. Sunday, 1:00 p. M. General session of all Sunday School Workers. Sunday, 2:30 p. M. Regular Quarterly Conference Session. PROGRAM OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS Saturday, 11 a. M. Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers 1. Accomplishments during the year.. Relief Society Stake Pres. 2. Relation of the Member to the Organizatioin (a) Requirements, (b) Privileges...... General Board Member 3. Relief Society peeing, (a) The visitor, (b) The family visited....... 0. Eee eee eeeGeneral Board Member 4. Charity Contribution (a) Fast Contributions, (b) Relief Society Contributions......... General Board Member Saturday, 4 p. M. Relief Society Stake Board 1. Questionnaire, to be filled out by General Board Member during session. 2. Special Instructions (a) Ward conferences, (b) Division of Responsibility..../.......... General Board Member Sunday, 9 a. M. Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers 1. Ward difficulties..............00005. By Ward President 2. Qualifications and Duties of Officers... General Bd. Member On Saturday afternoon at 3 o'clock, four department meetings will be held as follows: 1. Superintendencies and Presidencies of all organizations. Secretaries and Treasurers of all organizations. Choristers and Organists of all organizations. Teacher-Training Meeting for Representatives of all organizations, oN 
 Samoan Mission From Mrs. Thurza Adams, president of the Relief Society of the Samoan Mission, we have the following very interesting description of. The exercises held on March 17 by the Pesega Relief Society:.* "In several of the branches where a sfifficient number of Saints reside to justify holding services, the-Relief Society Anniversary Day was observed, and taking it for granted that Pesega was but typical of the balance of the mission, we shall give you a glimpse of the way we spent 'our 17th of March. "At nine o'clock in the morning, before the heat of a tropical day had taken possession of the iron-roofed church, the bell tolled sonorously and the Samoan Relief Society women could be observed wending their way to the Church from their pretty little brown-thatched homes that are barely discernible in a smothering mass of bananas and cocoanuts and other beautiful tropical verdure. Each was dressed in the long white mother hubbard universally prevalent among the Samoan women on fete or Sabbath days. Rebecca Aloese, the conference president of Relief Societies of Upolu, took charge of the services. The house was well filled and for nearly two hours all were interested and impressed by the discourses, most of them impromptu. The various phases of the work of the Relief Society were touched upon, and it was a convincing testimony of the practicality of the gospel to note the recognition of the value of the work of the organization as evidenced by each speaker in turn. Our Samoan sisters readily see their opportunities for church activity and seize it,. And perform well their duties. At the conclusion of the services each member contributed her twenty-five cent due, about thirty in all so doing. "At noon we. Were invited to the large house of Aupiu, our Pesega Samoan missionary (his wife Lupe is branch president) where a long circular table was laid. It was a banana-leaf table spread on the mat-covered pebble floor and upon it was heaped a vast array of tempting native food, together with such old forgotten acquaintances as bread, beef, and the ever faithful salmon and chicken. Perhaps fifty sat at the first table, all on the floor, native fashion. At the conclusion of the feast, a basin of clear water and towel were passed to each one, which was indeed necessary as we had eaten without implements except fingers. Immediately thereafter Samoan dancing of the picturesque native style was indulged in to the time of the tapping of sticks «nm a rolled-up mat and a dance chant of the spectators. From the feast and dance we recrossed the road to the large grassy front yard of the Mission Home where sides were chosen by a couple of Samoan sisters and a highly enjoyable cricket 'game indulged in, the missionaries all participating also. So f.:+*. *NOTES FROM THE FIELD 463 contagious and whole-souled is island mirth, and so entirely happy are these islanders whether at work or play, that we felt like children again, to join them in their games. At the close of the cricket game, according to Samoan custom, the two sides sat on the grass facing each other and the victors demanded forfeits from those who were defeated. The comical stunts demanded and acceded to in genuine good nature furnished amusement of a vaudeville order after which the exercises of the day were concluded." New Zealand Mission In connection with the yearly report of the New Zealand mission we received the following interesting comments from the president, Mrs. Ida Stott, and secretary, Mrs. Flora D. Fisher: "The work of the Relief Society in New Zealand is quite different from that at home. Only in the last few years has it been established throughout the mission as a whole. The keeping of definite reports is practically new and is rather difficult for the Maori members, yet they show a great interest in the work, and are trying hard to carry out instructions. We now have in our mission thirty completely organized Relief Societies and it is interesting to note that we are eight thousand miles from Utah and are farther south than any other Relief Society organization in the world. Each month we hold two meetings; a religious meeting and a work meeting. At our religious meeting we have theological lessons, testimony bearing, and lessons on sanitation, caring for the children, etc. At our work meetings we sew for the poor and make material up to sell. In this way we get money for charitable purposes. Since the conipletion of the Hawaiian temple and the visit of the special delegation of Moaries to the temple and to Utah, the people have become greatly interested in genealogical and temple work, and every effort is being put forth by the leading Saints to get their genealogies complete. When the eventful day came for the first party of fourteen to leave their native land to give service in the temple at Honolulu, a great interest was aroused among the Saints at large. The hospitality of their native friends, the kindness shown them on every hand, and the thought of the wonderful work they were about to take up, made their departure very impressive. Those of the party who were privileged to extend their visit to Utah, reported on their return home that they were treated royally everywhere they went, and they never tire of relating their wonderful experiences incident to this trip. After three months of perfect pleasure in this work, the party returned to their native land, In the Hawks Bay conference 
 at the Korongata branch, near the Latter-day Saints Maori Agricultural College, a special home coming celebration was arranged in their honor at great expense and with much labor. Preparations were being made a week before hand to accommodate the guests and the large crowd of friends and visitors. A large Marquis tent was pitched in order that all the people might have the privilege of attending the meetings. At night the tent was used for sleeping quarters, the ground being covered with a thick layer of straw. Each day the tent was well filled with attentive listeners eager to hear the interesting reports brought back from Zion and the strong testimonies borne by the various members of the party. Many visitors attended the meetings to hear first hand information of Utah and the 'Mormons.' It may be of interest to mention, briefly in passing, that the food for this large crowd was prepared and served in a most excellent manner by the members of the Korongata branch, assisted by some of the young native boys from the Maori Agricultural College. Sports of various kinds were enjoyed on the afternoon of the second day and in the evening a concert was given to the guests and visitors by the Maori Agricultural College." Hawaiian Misison Mrs. Christina A. Bowles, wife of the president of the Laie conference, and assistant in the Hawaiian temple, is greatly enjoying hr work in the Sandwich Islands. She is assisting in the temple but in addition to this she finds much time and opportunity to work with the women of the Relief Society. In speaking of the Relief Society she says: "T am happy to say that there are some very splendid branch organizations here, all equipped with officers and teachers who make their visits just as we do at home. They look well after the poor and the sick and are a kind, helpful lovable people, true to the gospel and to their callings. Anything undertaken by them is always done well. To illustrate this, the following will be of interest: Latter part of last January a letter was sent to all of the Relief Societies in the mission to take part in a fair which would be held here at Laie at the time of general conference. The members were invited to make articles typically Hawaiian, also such articles as quilts, lace, embroidery, etc., bringing or sending same to fair. The proceeds were to be divided, fifty per cent to go to the Hawaiian temple as a gift from the Relief Societies of that mission, and the other fifty per cent towards the purchase of a new organ for our chapel here. They went right to work and although they had only about six weeks' time to make articles, they came loaded with contributions, the excel- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 465 lent work or labor of their own hands. While Laie is some 35 miles from the city of Honolulu, and has but about 400 population of all peoples, yet we held the fair realizing some $1400, which, after all expenses are paid, will net a little over $600 to each of the funds aforementioned. The Hawaiian quilts are very beautiful and artistic and are superior to any that are made at home. In the fair they were sold at prices ranging from $25 to $50 each, and the Laie Relief Society took orders for five others. "In regard to our meetings which are held every Saturday morning at ten o'clock, we cannot carry out the same programs as at home, yet we are presenting very excellent and profitable instructions to the members with the Story of the Book of Mormon asa text book. The first meeting of each month is given over to testimony bearing after the reports have been given in by the teachers who visit every week. The officers are. Kept in close touch with the work through these weekly visits." Reorganizations California Mission: During the recent Relief Society conference held in the California mission, Mrs. Louisa Jones was honorably released from the presidency of the Relief Society on account of ill health, and Mrs. Margaret K. Miller was sustained as her successor. In the last two years Mrs. Jones has visited all of the branches in the California Mission, including those located in Arizona. She has faithfully promoted all phases of Relief Society work. Last year the genealogical work was featured and this year social welfare work. Mrs. Jones has left California for St. George where she expects to recuperate and later to take up temple work. Beaver Stake The Beaver Stake Relief Society was reorganized on April 17, due to the resignation of Mrs. Cedaressa C. Shepherd, who, because of failing-health, was compelled to give up the work. Mrs. Shepherd and her counselors, Mrs. Mary A. White and Mrs. Harriet E. Fotheringham have served faithfully in these positions for nearly twenty-four years, and Mrs. Betsey S. Goodwin has been treasurer for eight years. Mrs. Susan J. Murdock was appointed president, with Mrs. Annie E. Joseph and Mrs Jennie Tanner as counselors. Mrs. Alice G. White is the new secretary-treasurer, with Mrs, Martha A. Hoopes as assistant, Isabell McGregor was appointed chorister and Mrs. May C. White organist. A stake social was held in Beaver, May 13, in honor of the long and efficient services of the retiring officers. The large attendance was an evidence of the high esteem in 466 RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE which they are held, nearly every Ward in the Stake being repreSented. After ¢ € Program tokens of appreciation Were presented to each of the four honored guests and delicious refreshments were served, Good results are being realized in the Beaver Stake from the labors of the Relief Society: teachers, who, under the instruction of Mrs. Jane Mumford of the Stake Board have prePared topics for discussion €ach month. Beaver stake annual dues for 1921 were 100%. On April 29, under the d the new Stake board | i NOTES FROM THE FIELD 467 for all phases of the pageant did their work exceptionally well and deserve credit for its splendid success. "Tt was a wonderful story: interwoven with beautifully portrayed scenes of charity and mercy. The first episode carried one back to the time of the Savior and the great lessons of charity and mercy which he taught. It depicted and portrayed many beautiful Biblical truths and appealed to the finer sentiments and delicate emotions of the audience. "The second episode conveyed a message of far-reaching import—that of the sweetness of service and charity—the wholesouled work of the Relief Society of today. It opened with a tableau representing the organization of the first Relief Society, 79 years ago, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, eighteen women and three elders of the Church. The climax came when the President of the Relief Society of each of the four wards, Mrs. Rose H. Grant, Mrs. S. W. Chipman, Mrs. Sylvia Shipley and Mrs. Melissa Greenwood, led by their stake president, Mrs. Annie C. Hindley, filed up on the stand and were presented with roses by little girls dressed as angels who knelt before them. "Words cannot describe the grandeur of the final scene of the. Pageant—to be appreciated it must be seen. "The Relief Societies of the Church are accomplishing a wonderful work, and it is just such events as this that bring clearly to our minds the magnitude of their labors. "By special request the pageant will be repeated. It is expected that everyone who did not see this entertainment will avail themselves of the opportunity." Box Elder Stake A child welfare clinic has been conducted by the Box Elder Relief Society Stake Board at the Commercial Club rooms. Fearing that the strenuous winter of whooping cough, and other children's diseases, had left many children suffering from the bad effects of these various ailments, which if allowed to go unattended for any length of time might retard their growth physically and mentally, the Relief Society arranged for the clinic. The aid of the local doctors was solicited, 'also the aid of a specialist from Salt Lake City. The Relief Society ward presidents received the names of the children and made definite appointments for them so that unnecessary waiting would be avoided. A survey, or health card was used which after being copied for record keeping, was given to the parent so that the true condition of the child and advice of the doctor might be understood. Thirty-five babies were given a thorough examination, with remedial measures necessary tto correct the defects. 
 The clinic was part of the charity and relief work of the Relief Society and that it was appreciated was manifested by the great fleet of baby buggies lining the sidewalk in front of the Commercial Club during clinic hours. The work did not stop with the clinic, however, for follow-up work was continued for days and assistance given following the doctor's advice: The health card called for the following information: Name, age, b. Wt., present wt., parents, number other children, previous diseases: measles, mumps, scarlet fever, diphtheria, whooping cough, pneumonia, bronchitis, tonsilitis; general health: good, fair, poor, frequent colds, yes or no; repeated attacks of indigestion, diet from birth, tea, coffee, milk, eats between meals, bowels, sleep, mouth open, quiet, restless, snores. Remarks. Physical examination: inspection, bright, dense, nervous, apathetic; general condition, good, fair, poor; muscles; head; eyes. On the 13th of March, 1921, was the 43rd anniversary of the Box Elder stake Relief Society. On March 13, 1878, the stake Relief Society was organized and on the same day, Brigham City Relief Society was divided into four ward organizations, and in addition a new ward society, to 'be known as the Fifth Ward Society, was organized.