MRS. HOWE AT 90.
	Mrs. Julia Ward How’s ninetieth birthday
brought her as many floral tributes as if all
the flowers of her ninety springs had come
to life again, and were raining down upon
her. There was also a profusion of magnifi-
cent birthday cakes, and a shower of letters
and telegrams from many parts of the
world. There were so many presents that
the hall of her Beacon street home was fair-
ly crammed with dainty packages, snd
looked as if a wedding or a Christmas tree
were in prospect.
	All her children were with her at lnnch-
eon—Mrs Laura E. Richards, Mrs. Florence
Howe Hall, Professor Henry Marion Howe
and Mrs. Maud Howe Elliott. The recep
tion that followed was limited to the family
and a few intimate friends as Mrs. Howe
was just convalescent from a cold. Receiv-
ing with Mrs. Howe were Mrs. Henry M.
Howe, Mrs. Elliott, Mrs. Richards, and
Miss Rosalind and Miss Elizabeth Richards,
and Miss Marjorie Parks, of Brighton, a
grandniece of Dr. Howe.
	Mrs. Howe was dressed entirely in white
and wore no flowers. On the table back of
her “throne chair” was set a huge bunch of
lilies of the valley, sent by the children of
the Asylum for the Blind, with a bunch of
letters written by them.
	Among the telegrams received were those
from the Rhode Island Woman Suffrage
Association, the New Jersey Woman Suf-
frage Association, the National Alliance of
Unitarian Women, the senior class of the
Durfee High School, Fall River, the St.
Mathew’s Rectory, Bedford, N. Y., and the
National Woman’s trade Union League. A
greeting with which Mrs. Howe was especi-
ally pleased was from the Church of the
Disciples, to which she has belonged for
many years and whose pulpit she has occa-
sionally filled.
	Among the presents was a beautiful ame-
thyst necklace from the New England
Women’s Club. The Italian consul snd
the Circolo Italiano of which Mrs. Howe is
honorary president, the Greeks of Boston
and the Suffrage Association were among
those sending flowers. Altogether it was a
delightful occasion.


