[Column 1]
	Everything had been done beforehand
with a view to sociability, and seated at
the head of the table was the reverend lady
we had gathered to honor while partaking
of the feast. On her right her counselor
Ida Smoot Dusenberry was seated, and
next to her, Sister Julina L. Smith, and on
the other side the secretary, Sister Emmeline
B. Wells, and next to her Sister Clarissa S.
Williams, the treasurer. Other members of
the Board present were Sisters Sarah Jenne
Cannon, Susan Grant, Emma S. Woodruff,
Emily S. Richards, Priscilla P. Jennings,
Phebe Y. Beatie, Alice M. Horne, Annie W.
Cannon, Minnie H. James, Elizabeth S. Wil-
cox, Rebecca Nibley, and Harriet B. Harker.
Rebecca E. Little, who had been seriously
ill for a long time, was at the banquet ac-
companied by her intimate associate and
friend Sister Elizabeth Crismon.
	It is scarcely possible to enumerate the
good things prepared for the delectation of
the sisters of the party, but if one dared tell
who this efficientc ommittee were, the secret
would be made public for the ladies are
famous in giving entertainments. The table
fairly groaned with the weight of the feast—
the roast beef looked very tempting and all
the vegetables of the season served in the
most appetizing style and all the condi-
ments that go with a dinner, and famous
salads, and after these dainties and
delicacies and ice cream and cakes of great
variety, and fruit to set off the picture of the
table, and a birthday cake, the most deli-
cious that could be made, and candy and
nuts and grape juice to give zest to the
toasts.
	A blessing was pronounced by Sister B.
W. Smith upon the delicious menu, and the
feasting began, all were ready to converse
socially until the chairman of the committee
announced that toasts were expected, and
the ladies began to think what to say.
	Aunt Emm. Wells was given the task of
opening the subject and after congratulat-
ing the President and telling her how long
she had known her, etc., she asked Sister
Dusenberry to respond, and in a few well-
chosen words the lady gave a pretty senti-
ment in her delightful manner. Sister
Julina Smith came next and spoke most
tenderly and lovingly of her Aunt Bath-
sheba, and in fact there seemed in her mind
a little rivalry between herself and Aunt
Emm. Wells as to who loved Aunt Bath-
sheba the best, but that was rather more
amusing than serious, and naturally Sister
Julina is dearer, being her own sister’s
daughter and according to the old saying,
blood is thicker than water.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams could scarcely
speak when she recalled the first recollec-
tions of Aunt Bathsheba, associated as she
was in her mind with her own mother and
her dear father, her feelings almost over-
came her, but she choked down the sob fn
her throat and spoke eloquently of those
dearest memories of her childhood, and
closed with some beautiful lines from Long-
fellow’s poem; “THE GOLDEN MILESTONE.”
Each man’s chimney is his milestone,
Is the central point from which he measures
		Every distance
Through the gateway of the world around him.
We may build more splendid habitations
		But we cannot
Buy with gold the old associations.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff spoke of the
many years she had been acquainted with
Sister Smith and their very intimate associa-
tion in the temple, and in the work of the

