[Column 2]
	Soon after I joined the Church my step-
father died leaving my mother a widow
again. My home was very comfortable; I
could take the Elders home at any time
and leave them with the family, as I had to
go to work early in the morning and I knew
they would be well cared for, as my mother
would never allow bad rumors told in the
home about the Latter-day Saints. She told
us that we should not tell anything we did
not know to be true, and. we could not al-
ways depend on rumor and that home ought
to be the happiest place on earth. Some
time after I joined the Church I became ac-
quainted with a young man by the name of
John H. Rich and our acquaintance soon
ripened into courtship and in 1852 I became
his wife; we were married in the Church of
England, in January, 1853. We left our
home and turned our faces Zionward being
the only ones of our families that were in
the Church. We left Liverpool on the fifth
of February on the ship Jersey; Elder George
Halliday was our president. We arrived in
New Orleans in March being six weeks and
three days on the sea; we went from New
Orleans up the Mississippi River to St. Louis
and stayed there two months. My husband
went to work while we were there to help
get our living and also to get things for our
journey across the plains; many inducements
were held out to us to try and get us to stop
there; but we had started for the gathering
place of the Saints. We went from St. Louis
up the Mississippi River to Council Bluffs;
I shall never forget how the boat grated on
the river bed; and we camped at Kanesville
till the company was ready to start. The
captains name was Moses Daley; while there
a dear sister met with an accident and lost
her foot, it was shot off by her husband who
had been out hunting and was showing the
boys in camp how he lost his game; he pul-
led the wrong trigger and shot his wife in
the leg; she was getting her baby to sleep at
the time; but there was not much sleep in
camp that night; it was quite a trial for us
to leave her; there was an arrangement made
as soon as she was able for her to come on,
but she went back to St. Louis with her
husband, and they came to Utah the next
year and lived in the city for a while, her
name was Emily Halliday.
	In June we started on our journey across
the plains, August 24th, I gave birth to a
baby boy, we named him Franklin John;
we were at that time at what was called the
Black Hills; the company stayed over one
day for me; we arrived in Salt Lake City,
September 29, 1853.
	A few days after we came in, a brother
Thurston came to our wagon and offered us
a home for the winter at his house if my
husband would work for our board which he
agreed to do; we lived in with the family till
April the following year; when we moved
into a log cabin that we had used as our
bedroom during the winter; it was about fif-
teen feet square with no floor or window,
but it was the best they could do for they
had a large family of their own. It was
there I learned to make salt-rising bread; I
also learned to make butter while there,
Sister Thurston was very kind to us and so
were all of the family. In August, 1854, we
moved to the settlement or fort as it was
called; my husband was working days work
for our living and the Lord blessed us in our
labors and we got us a home, it was a log
house, we bought it of Brother Lyman Porter
and we were thankful to be in our own
house; in January, 1855, another son was
born to us, James Thomas. The following


