[Column 2]
Relief Society, and of her great life work,
and congratulated her on her long life.
	Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon who is al-
ways original as well as dignified, spoke
briefly of her life-long recollections of Aunt
Bathsheba and her nearness to her in the
Relief Society and Temple work.
	Sister Priscilla Jennings wished Sister
Smith all the blessings here and hereafter
that could be showered upon her to make
her life happy; rejoiced that she had been
so closely associated with her. Sister
Susan Grant, modest and demure, spoke
sweetly and tenderly of the past and present
in the finest words possible. Sister Emily
S. Richards alluded to the intimate assosia-
tion of the Richards family and Aunt Bath-
sheba, and could not recall the time when
she had not known her, and referred to Sis-
ter Jane S. Richards intimacy with Aunt
Bathsheba for so many years.
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne was particular-
ly grateful to all who felt to honor her dear
grandmother, and spoke of her grandmoth-
er’s energy and perseverance being an incen-
tive to all, and the sisters were all grati-
fied with her kindly words and feelings so
beautifully and tenderly expressed.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon gave a few of
her childish recollections of the way she
used to scale the high stone wall that separ-
ated the Wells home from the Historian’s
office, when Uncle George A. (as the chil-
ren called him) sat on the porch in his old
arm chair, and referred to the great rever-
ence she felt for him and Uncle Brigham
and her own father, associating them to-
gether as educators and benefactors, and her
great love for Aunt Bathsheba, which she
could give more fully, she thought, in some
lines which she quoted:
	“I would flood your life with sunshine,
		I would fence you from all ill,
	I would crown you with all blessings
		If I could but have my will.
	Aye, but human love may err, dear,
		And a power all-wise is near,
	So I only say God bless you,
		And keep you through the year.”
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie spoke tenderly of
the love she had for Sister Smith, who al-
ways reminded her of her mother (Sister
Zina Young) and how all through her girl
life she had watched them so intimate in
every place, and it was gratifying to recall
scenes and associations of the earlier days.
	Sister Minnie H. James spoke of the inti-
macy of Sister Smith with her own dear de-
parted mother, Sister M. Isabella Horne, for
so many years, and referred to the beauti-
ful past as she recalled it to memory.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox had the same
tender spot in her heart concerning her own
mother, who was so closely associated with
Sister Smith. Sister Rebecsa Nibley begged
to be excused, but spoke a word or two in
appreciation of her friendship with our
President, Sister Hattie B. Harker felt the
honor it was to be with us and expressed
great kindness and love for our President.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith spoke a few
precious words to us all, expressing her love
and kindly feeling and her good wishes to
all who had come to her home. She blessed
us and desired we should all keep the faith,
love our religion and keep the covenants we
had entered into sacred. She blest us with
the choicest of heaven’s blessings, peace,
prosperity and love, and hoped we should
all meet again and rejoice together and fesst
as we had today,
	It was indeed a happy day and the only
regret was that some of the members could

[Column 3]
not attend, especially Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards, who at all great gatherings of this kind
has been one of the most active in assisting,
and Sister Romania B. Penrose, who is now
abroad, Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth and
Sister Carrie S. Thomas who were unavoid-
ably detained at home.
	The General Board may be congratulated
on the success of the banquet, and if the
President felt happy, which we hope and
trust she did, and will remember the day
with pleasure and satisfaction, knowing she
has the love and reverence and devotion of
her coworkers.			E.B.W.


