[Column 1]
tion and zeal which show that their hearts
are in the work which they have undertaken
to perform. They ask only for what they
deem to be simple justice. They demand
for women the same rights to vote as are ac-
corded to men; equal pay for equal work re-
gardless of sex, representation to go with
taxation, a voice in the enactment of laws
which they are required to obey. They point
to the great progress that has been made
towards the uplifting of women through the
efforts of the promoters of the Woman Suf-
frage cause, such as the removal of many
disabilities under which women labored not
many years ago. Since that movement be-
gan, the right to hold property once denied
to married women had been obtained, pro-
fessions once entirely closed to women have
been opened to them. These opportunities
for female labor and independence are in-
creasing, and the conviction is fast taking
hold of the minds of thinking people that
the ballot should be an equal right to women
[-]s to men. 
	The peculiar reasoning that opponents of
woman suffrage use when they put women
forward to solicit votes and to employ all
the tactics and methods peculiar to political
movements, was exposed in a striking man-
ner by speakers at the congress, and it does
seem rather singular that political leaders
and applicants for popular favor are willing
to put women forward as political wire-pul-
lers and canvassers, doing the same work in
election schemes and tactics as men do, and
yet vehemently decry their right or privilege
to vote themselves while engaged in getting
votes for others. The so-called arguments
against woman suffrage that have been used
for many decades are still put forth as
though they were of some weight, when they
have been met and exploded with such force
that it would seem they would never be re-
vived again; such as that women cannot
serve as soldiers therefore they should not
be allowed to vote; the man is the head of
the family therefore the woman does not
need the vote, the family is the unit of the
state and the head represents the family,
etc., etc. 
	The same reasoning would shut out the
majority of men from the ballot. There are
millions of men not suitable for soldiers or
for policemen, or for other offices or posi-
tions. If the head of the family is sufficient
to represent the family, then the unmarried
sons, as well as the daughters and the moth-
er, need not and ought not to have the suf-
frage. The truth is that in a representative
government the individual is the unit of the
state, and the same principle by which the
male when of age is entitled to the ballot
would bestow it also upon the female when
of age or having any other similar qualifica-
tions as a citizen. These are among the
arguments used by women of brains and
culture in the great gathering of the Inter-
national Alliance, and they are set forth
calmly, rationally, without violent attacks
upon the male sex, and yet with force com-
ing from settled conviction and a determina-
tion to succeed. 
	The right of women to equal remuneration
for labor with that given to men when it is
as well performed is also maintained with a
logic that carries conviction to an unbiased
mind, and the need for the alleviation of
distressed and oppressed female laborers in
various capacities forms one of the reasons
advanced why woman should have the bal-
lot. With it she becomes a person of con-
sequence to the office-seeker and office-holder
and can exercise a force in the direction of

