IN MEMORIAM.
Resolution of respect to the memory of Anna
	Kleinman, daughter of Henry Beneze and
		Elizabeth Lang, who departed this life
			December 8th, 1908.
	She was born June 1st, 1836, was one of the
first to embrace the gospel in the place where she
then resided (Weininger, Zurich, Switzerland) in
the year 1854.
	Emigrated to Utah in the following year, mar-
ried Conrad Kleinman in 1856, in Salt Lake City,
moved from there and went to Lehi to live some
time after.
	In 1861 they were called to Dixie, among the
first that were called there, and obedient to the
call went and made their home at St. George un-
til 1867, when they moved to Toquerville, where
they stayed until 1883, when they moved to Ari-
zona.
	She was the mother of ten children, three girls
and seven boys. Four sons survive her death.
	She was called to preside over the Relief Socie-
ty of Alma ward, Maricopa stake, May 31, 1883,
which duty she performed in an energetic and
exemplary manner, until a few years ago. She
then moved to Utah with her husband to work in
the Temple at St. George; while there she was
called upon to part with her husband Conrad
Kleinman, after his death she still continued to
labor in the house of the Lord, and did the work
for 2,500 or 3,000 relatives and friends.
	She was sympathetic in nature; always helping
those that were sick or in trouble.
	She passed through all the hardships of the
early days in Salt Lake.
	Having a desire to once more visit with her sons
and daughters in Mesa, Maricopa Co., and then
return to St. George to finish her work for the
dead, but while here her health began to fail and
after lingering for four weeks after an operation
finally succumbed to the inevitable.
	She won the love and esteem of all whom she
associated with through life.
	And the officers and members of the Alma ward
Relief Society, feel that in her passing away we
have lost a faithful and earnest worker in the Re-
lief Society cause, a firm and valued friend and
be it
	Resolved:—That we duly sympathize with her
family in their deep bereavement, and sorrow in
the loss of a loving and devoted mother, and we
pray that the sweet consoling spirit may descend
upon them to heal up the broken hearts.
	Resolved:—That we sincerely mourn her depar-
ture from us but appreciate her past faithful la-
bors, and know that she has gone to receive her
reward for her past labors so well performed.
	Resolved:—That we place these resolutions up-
on our record, present a copy to the family, and
also send one to the Woman’s Exponent for
publication.
			Josephine H. Pew, President,
			Mary P. Standage,
			Clara Rogers, Counselors,
			Eva A. Kleinman, Secretary.


Miss Eetelle Reel, National Superintend-
ent of Indian Schools points out in her last
official report that there has been marked
progress during the last few years in the
general field of Indian education. Good re-
sults have been obtained through industrial
training and the encouragement of native
industries.


