AN IMPORTANT GATHERING OF WOMEN.
		Millennial Star, April 29, 1909.
	During the present week an important
congress has been holding daily sessions at
St. James’ Hall, Gt. Portland Street, Lon-
don. Two hundred delegates from twenty-
one different countries are gathered in the
quinquennial council of the International
Woman Suffrage Alliance. This is not to
be confounded with the movement popularly
known as the cause of the Suffragettes. That
is an independent organization of a militant
character, being neither a part of nor en-
dorsed or opposed by the International or-
ganization which has been holding its ses-
sions this week in London. The ladies in
charge of the meetings of the Alliance are
highly educated, earnest, devoted, well train-
ed in parliamentary usages and able to set
forth their views in a logical and interesting
manner. They do not resort to extremes,
nor fall into the ways of the militant women
who have made such a stir in the country
by violating police regulations and exposing
themselves to the penalties of the law.
	The Alliance moves upon legitimate and
lawful lines, and its influence is therefore
spreading throughout the civilized world. It
is presided over by Mrs. Carrie Chapman-
Catt, who on Monday last delivered a most
remarkable address, speaking extemporane-
ously and without notes for an hour, mak-
ing herself distinctly heard in clear, musical
tones which reached to every part of the
great building. The chair was occupied by
Mrs. Henry Fawcett, LL.D., and a number
of distinguished women took prominent
parts in the business meetings and in the
great demonstration held iu the Royal Albert
Hall. The four States in the American Union
in which woman suffrage has been estab-
lished, viz., Wyoming, Utah, Idaho and Co-
lorado, also Australia, New Zealand, Fin-
land and Norway were represented, and the
Isle of Man came in for its share of represen-
tation, the speaker for that rock in the sea
being Mr. Armitage Rigby.
	Utah’s delegates received recognition in
all the courtesies of the occasion, Dr. Roma-
nia B. Penrose being appointed by the Wo-
man’s National Relief Society, of which Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith is president; Mrs. Nel-
lie C. Taylor by the Young Ladies National
M. I. Association, of which Mrs. Martha H.
Tingey is president; and the editor of the
Star representing the Utah Woman Suffrage
Association, of which Mrs. Emily S. Rich-
ards is president. The proceedings have
been conducted with the best of order, yet
with enthusiasm and vigor.
	The speakers have evinced a determina-


