ONE MORE IN HEAVEN.
		REBECCA E. LITTLE
	Death during the few months past has
claimed among its victims some of the
brightest and most useful of the workers in
the Relief Society. Another notable name
must now be added to the long list recorded.
Our readers are all aware of the demise of
Sister Rebecca Ellen Mantle Little, whose
very recent passing away is fresh in our
minds today, and one scarce knows what to
say. There is much to tell, and in our next
issue we will have a tribute to her life and
works that will give our readers an idea of
the woman as we knew her. Sister Little was
an exceptionally superior woman in many
respects, one who stood for the highest and
best ideals in the home and in public life,
and in all the departments of knowledge
and educational work and of business and
affairs; she had the sterling qualities of
the Scotch race from which she descended,
and of which lineage she was very proud;
she was generous in her soul and in her
character.
	The glowing and eloquent tributes paid
to her by President Nephi L. Morris and
Prof. James E. Talmage at her funeral, as a
scholarly woman and one who forged ahead
in educational attainments bore proof of her
standing in the community where she was
born and had always lived.
	Bishop Frank Platte also spoke of her de-
votion and faithful performance of duties as
a Latter-day Saint, which was a very fitting
and appropriate closing to the career of one
who had been born and reared in the Church,
for which her parents had sacrificed home
and native land. The floral offerings in
great abundance were significant of the
love and esteem of her many friends, the
basket of white roses given by the General
Relief Society, was a testimonial, so to
speak of the whiteness and purity of her life
and the sacred bond which linked her to
the Society, and the basket of lilies of the
plentitude of gifts of mercy and charity,
tender tokens that speak to the human
heart.
		“So by scattered ruins,
		By sweet links unbound
		By fair blossoms all unheeded
		Trampled on the ground,
		So He brings them home to Him,
		Where no cloud their joy can dim.”


