OBITUARIES.
	We wish to record through our valuable paper,
the death of one of our faithful sisters, Mrs.
Mary L. Nelson of the sixth ward, Provo, who be-
came a member of the Relief Society when it was
first organized in the 2nd ward of Provo, and
officiated as a teacher in that ward very many
years, and served faithfully in that capacity after
the ward was divided until a short time before
her demise, acting as a teacher over thirty years.
Sister Nelson was born at Hornly, Sweden on the
17th of February, 1831, and departed this life on
the 19th of October, 1908.
	She was the beloved wife of Brother Lars P.
Nelson and was a true and loving companion.
She came to Utah in the year 1861, crossing the
plains by ox teams, and was married the same
year. She was the mother of several children.
	Bishop Nelson of the 2nd ward survives them.
Sister Nelson was a consistent Latter-day
Saint, true to her covenants, for she delighted in
her holy religion, and as such we shall ever regard
her memory.

	We have been called upon to part with another
of our faithful sisters, in the person of Sister Ma-
tilda E. Loveless, wife of the late Bishop Loveless
of the 2nd ward, Provo. She also joined the Re-
lief Society when it was first organized, in that
ward, wherein she was a teacher and counselor
very many years, and continued an active worker
in the 6th ward after the wards were divided.
She was born at Nashville, Tenn., and was the
daughter of Brother and Sister William C. McClel-
lan, on the 15th of Dec. 1828, and passed away
after a lingering illness, March 15, 1909. She was
the mother of ten children. When young she was
with her parents in Nauvoo, and always bore a
strong testimony of the divinity of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and remembered many remarkable
scenes and incidents in his life of which she was a
witness. She was always willing to perform the
last sad rites for the dead evsn in contagi-
ous diseases, for which she was highly appreci-
ated. One of her nephews is Professor McClel-
lan, the organist of the Salt Lake City Tabernacle.
				ELECTA BULLOCK,
						Pres’t.
				M. A. TILL,
				CLARA PAXMAN,
						Committee.


