[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 47th Relief Society con-
ference of Uintah Stake of Zion held at
Vernal in the ward house, February 28,
1909, beglnning at 2 p. m.
	There were present on the stand Brother
Dan B. Colton of the Stake Presidency, and
several high Councilors, Patriarch Nelson
Merkley, several bishops of wards, besides a
goodly number of Relief Society presidents
of wards. President Nancy A. Colton pre-
siding. Singing, prayer and singing.
	Sacrament was then administered, after
which President Nancy A. Colton welcomed
the brethren and sisters; she reported the
Stake in good condition, all the wards in the
valley had been visited except Jensen. We
anticipate visiting those on the reservation
in the near future; she spoke of the Sabbath
day, charity, cheerfulness and cleanliness.
	A lecture by Mrs. Jean Merkley was given
entitled “Loyalty.” “To our country, to
our Church and people, to the priesthood,
to our homes and relatives and to ourselves,”
etc. The subject was ably handled.
	Song by Bathera Young and Mina Pack,
assisted by Miss Afton Pack.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett addressed the con-
gregation on the subjects of loyalty, charity,
the evils that surround us, the duties of
Relief Society workers, and of the mission-
aries that go to the nations of the earth.
She bore a strong testimony of the truthful-
ness of the Gospel.
	Song by Mrs. Ethelwynne Collett, assisted
by Brother Orson Calder.
	Brother Dan B. Colton, in behalf of the
Stake Presidency, felt to say amen to the
work which was being done in the Relief
Society of the Stake and he appreciated the
work of the Relief Society workers. He
encouraged the brethren and sisters to
gather and fight against the evils that are
in our midst.
	President Nancy A. Colton made a few
closing remarks, thanked all for their
presence.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
	Singing. Benediction by Elder Fred G.
Bingham.
			PNEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec’y.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference  of
the Relief Society of the Nebo Stake of Zion
held at the Benjamin Ward meeting house,
on Friday, March 25, 1909.
	Conference convened at 10 a. m. Presi-
dent Eliza J. Dixon presidlng.
	Singing, prayer and singing.
	Sister Bingham, president of Benjamin
Ward, spoke a few words of welcome, and
gave in a brief report of her ward.
	President Eliza J. Dixon made opening
remarks congratulated the people on their
efforts in coming out today, said we are in
need of spiritual food as well as temporal,
and we get fed both temporally and spirit-
ually in the Relief Society work, spoke of
early spiritual training in children.
	Sister Forcey gave in a good report of
Mammoth Ward. Sister Jenkins gave a
good report of the condition of Goshen
Ward, all working in harmony. Sister
Tietjen reports Santaquin as doing good
work. Gave some good instructions—we
should do the will of our Savior.
	Instrumental selection by Sister Oakle-
man. Sister Andrus spoke for some time on
the subject of charity, in a very able man-
ner.

