[Column 2]
Anthony, American women, who, after con-
sultation with friends in England and France,
decided to convene a representative as-
sembly of delegates from as many countries
as possible, this assembly to be held in
Washington, in 1888, to celebrate the for-
tieth anniversary of the “Woman’s Rights”
movement, and to consider the possibility
of organizing International and National
Councils of Women. As a result the Inter-
national Council was organized with Mrs.
Millicent Garrett Fawcett of England as its
first president, Miss Clara Barton, of the Red
Cross Society, vice-president, and Mrs.
Rachel Foster-Avery as corresponding Secre-
tary.
	At the same time, the National Council
of Women of the United States was formed,
with the late Miss Frances Willard as its
president.
	National Councils of Women have been
formed in the United States, Canada, Ger-
many, Sweden, Great Britain and Ireland,
New Zealand, New South Wales, Italy;
France, Holland, Denmark, Austria, Switzer-
land, Netherlands, Tasmania, Argentine,
Victoria, South Australia, Hungary, Nor-
way and Queensland.
	The general officers are as follows:
H. E. The Countess of Aberdeen, president,
		Vice Regal Lodge, Dublin, Ireland.
Frau Marie Stritt, 1st vice-president,
	Durerstrasse 110, Dresden, Germany.
Dru Anna Hierta-Retzius, 2nd vice-president,
	110 Drottninggatan, Stockholm, Sweden.
Madame Jules Siegfried, 3rd vice-president,
226 Boulevard Saint Germain, Paris, France.
Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, D. Sc., Ph. D., F. L.
		S., corresponding secretary,
	1 Rubislaw Terrace, Aberdeen, Scotland.
Miss Martina Kramers, Recording secretary,
	92 Kruiskade, Rotterdam, Netherlands,
Mrs. W. E. Sanford, Treasurer,
			Wesanford, Hamilton, Ontario.
	The Conveners of the International Com-
mittees are as follows:
Peace and Arbitration,
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall,
		201 N. Euclid Ave., Pasadena, Cal.
Laws Concerning the Legal Position of
	Women,
		Mme. D’Abbadie D’Arract,
				32 Rue Vanneau, Paris.
Suffrage and Rights of Citizenship,
	Rev. Anna Howard Shaw,
			Moylan, Pa., U. S. A.
White Slave Traffic and Equal Standard
	Morals,
		Mme. Avrll De Sainte-Croix,
1 Avenue Malakoff, Paris.
Press, 
	Mrs. Willoughby Cummings,
		44 Dewson St., Toronto, Ontario.
Finance,
	Frauelein Helene Lange,
		Gillstrasse 9, Grunewald, bei Berlin,
					Germany.
	The president and nine delegates from
each Nationai Council federated with the
International Council of Women, together
with the general officers and conveners of
standing committees, have the right to vote
at the Quinquennial Sessions.
	The President from the United States
Council is Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, of Ber-
kely, California; the Corresponding Secre-

[Column 3]
tary is Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister, of Detroit,
Michigan, and the Treasurer, Mrs. H. Josie
Nelson, Union City, Indiana.
	Speakers of National reputation will be
heard at the various meetings, all of whom
will assist in making known to the general
public the magnitude and variety of woman’s
work for humanity.
	The International Council of Women has
for its President, Her Excellency, The Coun-
tess of Aberdeen, wife of the Viceroy of Ire-
land. The Countess of Aberdeen is noted
the world over for her philanthropy and for
her efforts to better the condition of women
less fortunately situated. Believing that all
children, no matter what their station in
life, should be taught some useful occupa-
tion, her son. Lord Haddo, was brought up
a practical farmer, while her daughters are
skilful housekeepers who can dispense with
their servants if need be, or face the rough
life of a colonist without any sense of griev-
ance. Although modest and unassuming,
her royal position is such that she travels in
state second only to that of King Edward
himself. Lady Aberdeen is at present per-
sonally engaged in a crusade against tuber-
culosis in Ireland.
	The Corresponding Secretary of the Inter-
national Council of Women is Mrs. Maria
M. Ogilvie Gordon, D. Sc., Ph. D., F. L. S.,
of Aberdeen, Scotland. Mrs. Gordon, who
is a cousin of Countess Aberdeen, was the
first woman to present an original work on
any natural science subject for the degree of
D. Sc. in London, and was also the first
woman to enter for the degree of Ph. D. at
Munich, which she won with the highest
honors. Mrs. Gordon has written several
books on science, and was among the first
group of scientific women admitted as Fel-
lows of the Linnaean Society of London.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Sanford, a woman of pro-
minence in Canada, is the Treasurer; Mrs.
Sanford has traveled extensively in the in-
terests of the Council of Women.
	Any person, whose name is accepted by
the Executive Committee and approved by
the Council of his own Nation where one
exists, may become a life patron of this
Council upon the payment of $200; or may
become a quinquennial contributor upon the
payment of $25.00 within the quinquennial
period.
	Every member of every society, belonging
to a federated National Council is a member
of the International Council, and can attend
and take part in the discussion at its meet-
ings.
	The influence of the International Council
can at present be best traced through the
results of the work of the National Councils,
which it has been the means of forming.
	These Councils can show proof of having
been instrumental in breaking down preju-
dices, and in promoting mutual understand-
ing and charity between adherents of es-
sentially different faiths, races, parties, and
also providing a pivot round which all who
desire to labor for the good of humanity,
may unite for the common cause; they have
also collected and spread correct information
concerning woman’s work, and created a
center which will prove a rallying point for
women, who, in all countries, desire to live
for others and leave the world better than
they found it.
	Issued from the office of,
		MRS. LILLIAN M. HOLLISTER,
			Chairman, Press Committee,
			National Council of Women,
				Detroit, Michigan.


