[Column 2]
	Among the Latter-day Saint women, who 
are a connecting link between the past and
the present, from the days of the Prophet
Joseph Smith down to our own time, but
few remain. Foremost of the illustrious few,
we are proud and happy to mention Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith, whose birthday anni-
versary was recently celebrated with appro-
priate honors and the respect befitting her po-
sition as a Mother in Israel; one indeed, who
has ministered scores of years in holy places,
and officiated in sacred ordinances, to many
hundreds of the Daughters of Zion.
	Sister Smith holds the position of General
President of the Relief Society of the Church,
an organization founded by President Joseph
Smith himself sixty-seven years ago in the
city of Nauvoo—Illinois, (she became a 
member on the first day) and which Society
 has reached out into all countries where the
Gospel tidings have been carried and women
converted thereto.
	Through the systematic correllation of its
branches, women have been able to regulate
the principle of giving charity, and doing ac-
tive philanthropic work for the betterment
and uplifting of all the members of this So-
ciety everywhere and for others outside; re-
lieving both temporal and spiritual needs in
an unobtrusive and dignified way, and pro-
moting moral and educational progress
among those whose opportunities had been
limited, along these lines of advancement;
often owing to their surroundings and en-
vironments.
	Sister Smith has not only been at the head
of great public movements and benefits, both
presiding and assisting in managing, but she
has always been a delightful home-maker;
industrious, an early riser, economical, thrifty
even resourceful; and in the best sense
motherly.
	Her life has not been free from thorns and
briers, yet it has really been very beautiful
in many ways, and she has borne herself
heroically, when tried as by fire, and her 
faith has never wavered.
	Her illustrious husband Hon. George A.
Smith, cousin of the Prophet, and one of the 
most distinguished men in the Church, died 
over thirty years ago.
	A few years after his demise she built a
smaller home near the Temple and has re-
sided there permanently ever since.
	Although it is not a large or “stately man-
sion” she entertains her friends hospitably
and with the most cordial good cheer, for
she is a Southerner to the heart’s core, and
proud of her dear old Virginia birthplace.
	She has always cultivated flowers and her
neat, white cottage with green shutters, and
yard with its lilacs, roses, trailing myrtle,
holly-hocks, lackspur and other old-fashioned
flowering plants and shrubs are the admira-
tion of her friends, and the passers by, and
give a sort of tone to the dwelling place in-
dicative of peace and restfulness.
	However we are not giving our readers a
descriptive narrative or a story of this famous
woman, who has lived as long, and seen
so much, and associated with so many great
men and women, but only wish to tell about 
her eighty-seventh birthday anniversary.
	The lady in question gave a reception at

[Column 3]
her residence on Monday, May 3, 1909, from
2 p. m. to 8 p. m. to which she invited her
relatives, friends and co-workers. The parlor
and other rooms were artistically decorated
with flowers and ferns etc., festooned with
ribbons as for a bride; pretty vases and
bowls were filled with fragrant blossoms,
tastefully arranged, and all was done in the
most perfect harmony of color.
	Sister Smith wore with becoming grace,
an elegant, white, homemade silk dress,
with exquisite fine lace at the neck and 
wrists, and a very fine white lace scarf over
her beautiful soft white hair; altogether she
presented a queenly appearance, as she sat
in state, to receive her guests. She was as-
sisted in receiving by her only daughter Mrs.
Clarence E. Merrill, and Mrs. Susan E. Smith;
her charming and attractive grand-daughters
Mrs. David Allen, Mrs. George A. Horne,
Mrs. Ben. E. Lloyd, Mrs. Joseph Fisher,
Mrs. Stephen L. Richards, courteously meet-
ing the guests doing the honors and deftly
dispensing light refreshments to the nume-
rous callers, who came to offer congratula-
tions to the reverend hostess, on this auspi-
cious occasion; and to wish her continued
health, happiness, prosperity and future use-
fulness, and activity, as long as life seemed
desirable to her. Many of her friends brought
bouquets, pretty books and a variety of gifts,
remembrances, and messages, tokens of love
and esteem.
	During the entire afternoon until eight
o’clock in the evening Sister Smith was
shaking hands and greeting her guests, in
the most kindly and gracious way.
	Among the distinguished callers were Pre-
sident Joseph F. Smith, President John R.
Winder (who is near the same age as the 
lady herself) and President Anthon H. Lund,
also the venerable Patriarch John Smith,
and other notable people from far and near,
about two hundred in all, and every one 
seemed delighted to show honor and rever-
ence to the beloved woman leader.
	During the day a telegram of loving con-
gratulations and good wishes was received
from Los Angeles, California, signed John
Henry Smith, George Albert Smith, John and
Lucy Smith Acomb.
	The following day the General Board of
the Relief Society, according to a previous
arrangement, gave a sort of informal
but most delightful banquet at the home of
their president at three o’clock Tuesday,
May 4, 1909.
	A competent committee had the affair in
hand, to whom much credit is due for its
enjoyment and success. Consent of the
hostess having been given, the committee
took possession inside the cottage, and
made the needful preparations. Thereupon
the other members of the Board were re-
lieved of anxiety. The President, in her
pretty white costume, received all the mem-
bers with her sweetest smiles, and cordially
welcomed them to the home they had in-
vaded. The table looked very inviting with
its snowy linen napery, and elegant old-
fashioned china dinner-set and other rare
old plates; platters, bowls, etc., of antique
style, but the most interesting of all was the
President herself the Guest of Honor.


