[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | October | Issue: 8 | Title: COLUMBUS DAY. | Author: Unknown]

COLUMBUS DAY.

	EARLY in the morning of the 21st of
October the school children of this City as-
sembled in the various districts to march in
procession and later on the streets were
filled with them and crowds of people gath-
ered to see the exercises and certainly lt was
a beautiful sight. Bands of music were in
attendance, flags and banners gaily floating
in the breeze, the day was fine and all things
propitious. Perfect order was kept and
about eight thousand children marched two
and two to the large Tabernacle where they
were seated and the programme as arranged
was carried out. Presidents Wilford Wood-
ruff, Geo. Q. Cannon and other prominent
men were among the spectators occupying
a position near the choir.
	Prof. Malone of the High School read
the President’s proclamation for the day to
be observed as a holiday, and Miss Alice
Rowe by request read Gov. Thomas’s proc-
lamation for this Territory.
	The ceremony of raising the flag was per-
formed by the veterans of the G. A. R. the
flag was just in front of the organ, and
afterwards remained suspended, the Taber-
nacle juvenile choir band struck the air
“America” and as the flag reached the top
of the staff the rolling drum was heard and
the veterans led the assemblage in three
cheers for old glory.
	The Hurrahs were inspiring from so
many childish voices. After singing of

[Column 2]
America by the children the Rev. Dr. Utter
offered prayer and then a song for Columbus
Day composed for the occasion was sung,
the effect of the music by such a multitude
was exceedingly grand.
	Other exercises of a most interesting and
intellectual character followed, all calculated
to make a deep impression upon the minds
and hearts of the children.
	Similar exercises were held in the Latter-
day Saints College, the Utah University 
and in the various schools in all parts of the
Territory.
	In the afternoon a grand concert was
given in the Tabernacle also in the evening,
at which time fully a thousand voices,
joined in the choruses and anthems etc.,
under the leadership of the famous
musicians Professors Evan Stephens, Thos.
Radcliffe, and H. E. Giles, who deserve
the highest encomiums of praise for the
grand success achieved.
	Chief Justice Zane delivered an eloquent
address and Bishop O. F. Whitney read an
historical poem on Columbus of his own
composition, which was received with
hearty applause and created considerable
enthusiasm. The poem as a whole was a
beautiful tribute to the memory of the great
discoverer and also to our own Washington,
and contains many superb passages, rich
with thought and exquisite in feeling and
altogether telling in sentiment. The
language sublime and the construction quite
in keeping with the glorious theme. We
intend publishing it in full in our next
issue; and consider it worthy a place in the
History of Utah. The singing was excel-
lent and one should mention many of the
performers specially, but our space is so lim-
ited we can only mention Miss Lillian
Roberts, of Provo who charmed the audi-
ence with her sweet voice and Mrs. Anne
Colburn Plummer who both gave rich se-
lections and were vociferously applauded.
The musical merit of the cencert is unques-
tionably excellent.


[column 1]
