[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | October | Issue: 8 | Title: Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT: | Author: Unknown]

Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It is with sad feelings that we announce the
death of our beloved sister and co-laborer, Phebe
Malinda Sevy, daughter of John L. and Caroline
F. Skein Butler.
	Deceased was born Dec. 16, 1837, in Caldwell
Co Mo.  She was baptized in 1846 by her father
and Dec. 5, 1854, was united in marriage to
George W. Sevy, in Spanish Fork.
	Sister Sevy, though not an aged woman, not
having filled up the allotted time, passed through
many trying scenes.  She was the mother of four-
teen children, seven of whom preceded her to the
grave.
	Her health had been poor for several weeks
and, on the 14th of August 1892, after two days
intense suffering with cholera morbus she quietly
passed away, surrounded by all her living chil-

[Column 2]
dren, except the eldest son, John L. who is now
on a mission in Tennessee.  One sister and many
friends were also present.  Two sisters arrived
just in time for the funeral.
	The occasion was made more solemn by the
death, a few hours later, of an infant grand-
daughter four months old which she was raising
for a deceased daughter.
	The funeral took place at 10 a. m., in the meet-
ing house, on the 16th inst.  The services were
conducted by Bishop Allen Miller.  The speakers
were M. M. Steele, Patriarch J. L. Heywood, and
Pres. Crosby.
	Sister Sevy, having been born at an early day
in the Church, remembered many of the trials in-
cident to those days.  She was one of the first
settlers in Southern Utah, and, in connection
with her husband, shared the trials and hardships
endured by those who settled that part of the
country.
	In fact, we can hardly think of anything in the
line of woman’s trials that she has not tasted, and
proven herself worthy.  She has been Counselor
in the Relief Society of this ward since its organi-
zation, twenty years ago.
	Was very charitable and was especially noted
for her hospitality.
	She leaves a husband (who is now in Mexico),
seven children, sixteen grandchildren, two
brothers, five sisters, and a host of friends to
mourn her loss.
			RHOANA HENRIE, President.
			MARY B. HEYWOOD, Counselor.
			ADELIA CROSBY, Cor. Sec.


