[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | October | Issue: 8 | Title: ALFRED TENNYSON. | Author: Unknown]

			ALFRED TENNYSON.
		POET LAUREATE OF ENGLAND.
	Alfred Tennyson the Poet Laureate of England
(created Lord by Her Majesty Queen Victoria of
Great Britain and Empress of India) departed this
life a little past midnight (the poet's hour) at 1.30
o'clock October 6, 1892; the dispatches state that
he gradually lost his strength, growing weaker
and feebler little by little painlessly until the end
came peacefully as flowed the li e of the passing
soul. Death came as he would have wished it
calmly and without outward disturbance.
	"There was no artificial light in the room; only
the mellow rays of the autumn moon lit up the
chamber in which the dying man lay, and fell
across the bed, bathing him in pure, pellucid
light forming a rembrandtesque background to
the scene. All were silent save the gentle
soughing of the wind through the trees around
the mansion-a fitting requiem for a poet who
sang of the love and beauty of nature. So quietly
did his soul depart that the members of the family
were not aware of the fact till announced by the
attendant physician. Once or twice during the
the night he lifted his eyes to the faces of the
watchers and a peaceful smile played over his
features."
	Lady Tennyson bore up well when all was
over. The poet will be buried in the Poet's
corner of Westminster Abbey next to Browning's.
Dr. Bridge is setting to music Tennyson's beauti-
ful poem, "Crossing the Bar," which the laureate
wrote about a year and a half ago. He intends
the music to be played at the poet's funeral.
Robert Buchanan the poet and dramatist, has
written an obituary poem on the death of Tenny-
son. It concludes with these lines:

Peace to the Knight who kept his vow while
	others slept like sand,
But who shall sing to mortals now of that lost
	fairy land?

Sir Edwin Arnold has also written the follow-
ing beautiful poem:

[column 2]
No moaning of the bar, sail forth strong ship
Into that gloom which has God's face for light,
Not a dirge, but a proud farewell from each fond
	lip,
And praise, abounding praise, and fame's faint
	starlight,
Lamping this tuneful soul to that large noon
Where thou shalt quire with angels. Words of
	woe
Are for the unfulfilled, not thee, whose moon
Of genius sinks full-orbed, glorious, aglow.
No moaning of the bar, musical drifting
Of Time's waves turning to the eternal sea,
Death's soft wind all thy gallant canvass lifting,
And Christ thy pilot to the peace that be.
	
	The Times calls Tennyson the "English Virgil"
on account of his mastery of lofty, graceful and
sonorous verse. Never since Milton it says, has
England heard such stately blank verse as "Idyls
of the King."
	Swinburne will probably be his successor.
	"Lord Tennyson looks fifteen years younger
than before his death. His beard has been care-
fully trimmed and his hands folded over his chest.
A laurel wreath crowns his head and another lies
at his feet. Burning wax tapers lend a subdued
light to the chamber. The Bishop of Winchester
will preach the funeral sermon in Haselmere
Church on Sunday.
	"All the members of the Tennyson family as-
sembled and took their last look at the dead be-
fore the coffin lid was closed and screwed down.
Lady Tennyson was the last to leave the room
and alone in the sacredness of her sorrow she
bade a final adieu.

