[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | October | Issue: 8 | Title: MEXICAN MISSION. | Author: Unknown]

MEXICAN MISSION.
	The fifth quarterly Conference of this
Mission was held in the spacious school-
house at Colonia, Juarez, Chihuahua,
Mexico, on Monday, August 29, 1892.
President Mary Eyring presiding. There
was an excellent attendance, several of the
leading brethren of the Mission favored us
with their presence, Apostle George Teas-
dale, Patriarch Henry Lunt, A. F. Mc’
Donald of the Presidency of the Mission,
Bishops George W. Sevey of Juarez, Wins-
low Farr of Dublan, Jesse N. Smith Jr. of
Pacheco, and others.
	The hymn “Lord we come before thee
now,” was sung. Prayer was offered by
Bishop Sevey, singing ‘Glorious thinge are
sung of Zion,” and minutes of the last
Conference read and approved. Then fol-
lowed the reading of the half yearly reports.
	President Mary B. Eyring, after expres-
sing the happiness she enjoyed in her labors
and the steady progress being made by the
Society; exhorted the sisters to be faithful
and true to the trust reposed in them, in
fulfilling all the obligations of true woman-
hood. Sister Mary Porter of Pacheco,
Emma Barber of Diaz, Ida J. Mortensen of
Dublan, and Susan Martineau of Juarez,
represented the ward branches in good pro-
gressive condition.
	Counselor Cynthia Stowell and Ellen
Lunt addressed the Conference in an ex-
cellent spirit, President A. F. Mc’Donald,
Bishop G. W. Sevey and President George
Teasdale made very encouraging remarks.
The subjects treated upon were, the valued
labors of the officers and members of the
Relief Society; the gathering together of
earnest women interested in the establish-
ment of righteousness upon the earth, and
acting as ministering angels by precept and
example,encouraging the virtues of modesty,
purity and chastity; visiting the widow and
fatherless in their afflictions, and keeping
themselves pure and unspotted from the
world, being full of integrity to the Gospel
of our Lord Jesus Christ; woman’s greatest
mission being to assist in the establishment
of righteousness upon the earth, for which
she is so qualified by nature.
	The authorities of the Relief Society of
the Church and of the Mexican Mission
were unanimously sustained, and the Con-
ference adjourned until Monday, November
28, 1892.
	The benediction was pronounced by
Patriarch Henry Lunt. We had an excel-
lent Conference.
			M. E. TEASDALE, Sec.
	P. S.	In the spring we had heavy frosts
and it was anticipated all the fruit was
destroyed but thanks to our Heavenly


Father we have had an abundance of fine
blackberries, peaches, plums, grapes, a few
strawberries, apples and pears.  Larger and
more luscious peaches than we have had
would be difficult to find any where.
	More grain was raised here this year than
ever before notwithstanding the dry season.
We have lately had a number of nice rains
that have raised the water in the river and
started the grass.
	We feel greatly blessed and encouraged,
and that this is a good country for Latter-
day Saints.
							M. E. T.


Editor EXPONENT:
	President Anna L. Ivins of the Relief 
Society of the St. George Stake, realizing
the necessity of the branches in the North
Western settlements being visited, previous
 to our September conference, and not being
able to make the trip herself, it was decided
her Counselors Ann C. Woodbury and
Hannah M. Miles should make the trip.
	Accordingly on the 13th of August,accom-
panied by Counselor Mary G. Whitehead of
the Primary of this Stake, we left St. George
for Gunlock where our first opportunity for
meeting was 4 p.m., and notwithstanding
a number of the sisters were away from
home and others had sickness in their
families, we had a good meeting, Elizabeth
Truman presiding; and although this settle-
ment is not on the main road and in con-
sequence is visited but seldom, the sisters
are awake to their duties.  On the morning
of the 14th we continued our journey over
one of the worst roads that can be imagined,
to Pine Valley where we held meeting at 
4 p. m.  Dorinda Slade presides over the 
Relief Society; Bishop William Gardner
met with us, and while but few were in at-
tendance a most excellent spirit prevailed. 
	At 6 p. m. we met with the Primary, 
which is ably conducted under the watch 
care of Cynthia B. Gardner.
	On the 5th, after traveling sixteen miles, 
we were welcomed by the people of Pinto
where meeting was held with the Relief
Society at 2 p. m., Mrs. Ann Knell, Presi-
dent; the Bishop of this ward Robert Knell,
was present at our meeting.  We had a
very good time this being one of the settle-
ments where the people live at home and 
board themselves, their land produces grain
and vegetables sufficient for their own wants
and to spare, they have herds of cattle, some
fine houses, in addition to which they have
a good sheep herd; so that they have their
own beef, pork, butter, cheese and plenty
of wool for their clothing; in fact I do not 
know of a more self-sustaining community
than Pinto in this Stake of Zion.
	After meeting we proceeded to Hamlin
a branch of the Pinto Ward, and at 7 p. m.
met with Relief Society and Primary com-
bined; as the place is small the audience
was small, but good attention was paid to
what was said, and I feel that good was ac-
complished.  On the 16th we proceeded to
Hebron, this is another place where the 
people are engaged in the stock business.
many had moved out to their ranches, the 
town is nearly deserted, the floods having
left them without water for their gardens or
for culinary purposes, except what is
hauled from a distance; all of which how-
ever will be overcome in the near future as
the poeple contemplate a reservoir at an ex-
pense of $10,000 which when completed
will furnish water for land already fenced
and for hundreds of acres of good quality
now lying idle just below the village, and

[column 2]
furnish desirable homes for hundreds of per-
sons wishing to become permanently settled;
we drove on five miles to Bishop Terry's
ranch where we were welcomed by Sister
M. A. Terry.
	The 17th we traveled thirty-five miles to
Panacca in Lincoln Co., Nevada, the
Bishop was absent from home but we were
made welcome by Sister Lee, within her
beautiful home.
	At 10 a. m. of the 18th, we met with the
children,Sister Melissa Lee, who has been a 
faithful worker was compelled through sick-
ness and a press of othea duties, to resign 
her position as President of the Primary
Association of this place, and Mrs. Mary
Wrench was chosen President with Melissa
Lee and Christy Turnbow, Counselors;
here as all the settlements can boast were 
a fine lot of healthy children.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Society
which is presided over by Mrs. Elizabeth
Wadsworth; the spirit of the Lord was en-
joyed by the people and all felt to rejoice in
the great Latter-day work.
	On the 19th we commenced our return
journey remaining the first night with 
Sister Terry on their ranch; on the 20th,
we continued our journey to Brother James
Holt's, located about three miles below
Hamblin, in the Meadow, Canyon, there
are but few people here, but as they were 
being visited by relatives from a distance
we decided to hold meeting with them;
which we did and all rejoiced at the oppor-
tunity that had been afforded them; when 
they bade adieu with a pressing invitation
to us to come again.
	We dined at Brother Camfields, at
the Meadows, in the absence of Sister Cam-
field we were kindly entertained by her
daughter Clara; in the afternoon at 2 p. m.
we had an interesting meeting at Pinto with 
the Primary Association; in the evening
we drove to Grass Valley where I had the
privilege of spending the night with my 
sister, Leonora C. Gardner; the 21st being
Sunday we met with the Sunday School;
the exercises rendered reflect great credit
on all concerned.  At 2 p. m. we had a
meeting with the Primary Association a 
good spirit was enjoyed.
	We found a people in this peaceful little 
valley, who are fully awake to the necessity
of educating their children, and they move
into larger settlements in the winter where
the children can attend school.
	In the summer they have a teacher and 
conduct a private school, having built a
nice school house where they are taught
music as well as other branches of educa-
tion, in all of which they show great pro-
ficiency. In the evening we drove to Pine
Valley and remained over night reaching
home on the 22nd, this ended a trip that re-
quired two hundred and fifty miles of travel
over a road that is anything but a pleasure
but is necessary in order to visit the settle-
ments named, which constitute a part of
this Stake,this country is sterile but the in-
dustry of the Saints have made it desirable.
We trust we have done some good in en-
couraging the Saints in their duties.  I
never saw a better spirit than was manifest
among them at the present time, they
watch the signs of the times and are satis-
fied with their observations.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel.
