[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | October | Issue: 8 | Title: IN RURAL ENGLAND. | Author: Unknown]

﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXIV.
	The preparations for the wedding of Dr.
Bland and Miss Conway were completed,
and the nuptials solemnized with due cere-
mony in the little Church at Dunstan Rec-
tory by the young Clergyman who had
only recently taken up his abode in that
diocese the Reverend George R. Hayward,
whose unassuming manner had endeared
him to the people among whom he was call-
ed to labor and as his father had been a
college friend of Dr. Bland's he took a
special interest in the young man, and,
though not a church going man, had really
been instrumental in getting him settled in
that vicinity, as soon as a vacancy had oc-
curred.
	Rob Harrison Esquire was present at the
wedding and gave away the bride, much as
his own heart rebeled against the marriage.
Many such tragedies occur in every day
life, only as in this instance the world are
not aware of the real truth, that lies con-
cealed underneath the mask society wears.
The truth was Rob Harrison loved Jane
Conway, from the moment he first saw her,
plain and unpretending as she appeared in
the eyes of others, he knew and felt the
magnet of her presence and appreciated the
beauties of character that passed unnoticed
by the society in which they moved. He
was loth to acknowledge even to himself
this passion that possessed him, and when he
found her the betrothed of another he was

[Column 2]

shamed within himself that he should be so
weak. After coming to Hilliard Castle he
made the acquaintance of Dr. Bland and
the two became fast friends, so that when
the preliminaries of the marriage were be-
ing arranged and the Doctor innocently
asked Mr. Harrison if he would give away
the bride as she had no near relative who
could be present, he consented at once.
What else could he do? And indeed he
was equal to the occasion for he had already
passed through ordeals that had given him
the strength and courage to suffer and en-
dure without outward sign of grief or
pain.
	Jane Conway in her ignorance of his true
feeling towards her struggled with herself,
and bore her part nobly and when the cere-
mony had been consummated, those who
were present saw only a smiling happy
bride and bridegroom and showered upon
them congratulations thicker than the
flowers which bestrewed their path from the
Church door to the carriage in waiting, for
Dr. Bland bore away his blushing wife to
the old home where anxious relatives were
waiting; the home coming of one long ab-
sent, and to meet and welcome the young
woman so faithfully described in his letters
to relatives in his childhood's home.
Strange indeed to the young wife was the
experience of the next few weeks, the
journey by lumbering coaches, the rural
scenery in the Spring time when all the
hedges were full of blossoms, the quaint
old-fashioned inns or hostelries where they
stopped at night—and the different dialects
of the provincial districts through which
they passed were all new and interesting in
the extreme to the young woman, who had
seen so little of her own country people, ex-
cept those of her own class; now she was
brought in contact with the people, saw
something of the actual condition of the
bone and sinew of those residing in the ru-
ral districts apart from the bustle of City
life and indeed from the manufacturing and
trades-people, cottagers and farmers who
were in a manner self-supporting and as in-
dependent in their way as the gentle folks
who drove in their own carriages with ser-
vants in livery. As a matter of fact these
people were less slaves to custom, and fashion
more their own masters and mistresses
than many of the titled aristocracy, who of-
ten had to resort to all sorts of subterfuges
to keep up appearances.
	These things became clear to this high-
minded young woman especially after she
reached the North of England where the
Doctor's relatives resided, and her husband
explained to her many things connected
with the affairs of the plain,honest,working
people, and she discovered what false views
were entertained by many of the young
folks with whom she had been associated in
regard to those who were really entitled to
greater honor than the aristocracy, who too
often looked down upon them and gave no
true recognition of their rights and privil-
eges as free-born men and women. Dr.
Bland was a great-souled man in all that
concerns humanity, and his wife appreciated
more and more day after day his true no-
bility of character.


[Column one]
	His family were not titled people but
more of the professional struggling class,
his father had been something of an as-
tromoner and mathematician,and his moth-
er the daughter of a clergyman who had held
rather ultra views concerning women and
in various points of doctrine, and the doc-
tor himself had kept outside of all the es-
tablished churches. But of both father and
mother there only remained the mounds in
the Church yard, but there were brothers
and sisters and aunts and cousins, and they
strove with each other to show the most
respectful attention to the newly married
relatives.
	Much as Jane Conway had dreaded the
marriage beforehand she enjoyed her
honeymoon as well as many who anticipate
such great happiness, and acknowledged to
herself, that she was greatly favored to
have such true enjoyment and to be learn-
ing so much of the real lives and homes of
her own country people of whose circum-
stances and feelings she had heretofore been
in such complete ignorance.
	We are often led by an unseen guide into
the ways that seemed marked out for our
destiny, we know not why or wherefore,
but in the sequel we learn it was to give us
experience or to prepare us for an unknown
future. So it seemed with Jane Conway
now Mrs. Bland, though her individuality
was too pronounced ever to be merged into
that of any man however strong the char-
acter of such an one might be, or what rev-
erent love she might cherish for him as a
husband.
	Dr. Bland fully appreciated her strength
of mind and superior intellect and he had
the experience that comes with years, and
the liberal profession and large practice of
a thoroughly educated physician. Possibly
had his wife never met Mr. Harrison she
might have given herself more fully to his
interests, but as it was she did not look be-
yond, except as the peculiar dream she had
just previous to her marriage would come
into her thoughts whatever plans she made.
	After some weeks spent in the country
places among relatives and friends the new-
ly married couple returned to the home
which had been so carefully remodeled.
The family at Hilliard Castle were anxious-
ly looking forward to their arrival and
Lady Anna was in great trouble with her
household affairs and much in need of
sound advice. Like many young house-
keepers Anna Hilliard had betrayed her ig-
norance of management to every one in the
establishment and had dismissed one after
another of those employed until scarcely
one remained of the household that had
been trained by her cousin: her first greet-
ing on the arrival of Mrs. Bland was,
“Cousin Jane there never was such totally
unmanageable set of servants as I have at
the house; everything goes wrong and I
must have some reliable woman to oversee
the place or Mrs. Burke will soon take en-
tire control and put me out.”
	“I am very sorry but until I see how I
am to manage my own affairs, I cannot
think of making suggestions to you, after
that we will see what can be done.”
	“Haven’t you seen some one in the
country suitable for such a position, I sent
you dozens of messages, and I supposed
you would think it important in view of
my ignorance of all such things.”
	“The people I saw were as independent of
such work as we are cousin Anna, and I
assure you that I have learned some very
useful almost invaluable lessons during my

[Column 2]
visit in the country, and it will make my
life broader and better, and I trust I shall
see things with a clearer vision than ever
before, and I trust be of more use in the
world than I would otherwise have been.”
	After having stated these facts to her
cousin Mrs.Bland sought to help her to bring
about a more settled state of affairs in the
castle and to show her the need of firmness
and dignity in the management of those in
her service. All this was beneficial to Lady
Anna though she was not one who could
ever undertake to do a great deal without
substantial help in the way of advice or a
strong arm to lean upon. Her cousin
knew this, and she could see how weak in
any such capacity Maitland Walton would
be, and it made her feel that she must do
whatever she could for her protection.
	In after years Lady Anna found how
much she owed to her cousin’s wise train-
ing and straightforward example.
	Dr. and Mrs. Bland were soon settled in
their own home and everything prospered
with them, but things were not to remain
so tranquil for very long, and within a short
time many events occurred that could not
have been anticipated unless by the spirit of
prophecy. Mrs. Bland felt by a remarkable
intuition that they were soon to leave their
native land yet what was to bring it about
she knew not. Lady Anna was preparing
for her marriage and Lady Walton was al-
most constantly with her helping with
suggestions and advice such as every young
girl needs who has no mother to watch
over her, and both Maitland and Anna were
as happy in the prospect of the union as
possible; the father had reluctantly consent-
ed though he had had several serious quar-
rels with his wife, and at one time threat-
ened to disinherit his son if he had no more
respect for his feelings than to marry into
the family of one who had been his sworn
enemy to the day of his death. A flood of
strange occurrences were sweeping down
like an avalanche upon Hilliard Castle and
those in its vicinity.

