		STATE OF NEW YORK.

			[Column 1]
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	I had the great pleasure, in company with
Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson, of attending the Woman's Suffrage
Convention for the State of New York, held
Feb. 2 and 3, in Chickering Hall, corner of
18th St. and Fifth Avenue. It is a magnifi-
cent Hall, worthy of the cause promulgated
within its walls, and the paying of one hundred
dollars a day for its occupation for two days,
shows the high estimation of the work in hand
and also the praiseworthy executive ability of
the gracefull queen of wit and fable, Mrs. Lillie
Devereux Blake, the present President of the
New York Association.
	I did not attend the reception given in the
Stuyvesant Hotel, which I am informed was a
brilliant affair.
	The morning of the second day (I did not
attend the first) was occupied principally in
hearing reports from the different counties,
mostly represented by Mrs. Blake herself.
	The afternoon was occupied by Mr. Wilcox,
Mrs. Slocum, Mrs. Joslyn Gage and a witty
German lady from Albany, and representative
of that branch of the work. Her speech was
full of good, common-sense hits, and reminded
me much of our dear, sweet Camilla Cobb at
home. Mr. Wilcox is truly woman's champion,
and the woman must be truly proud and happy
(the sole interpretation of the word Marriage)
who calls him husband; and  the cause will, in
the hour of its success, owe much to his untir-
ing efforts. May he live to realize his well-
grounded, sanguine hopes, and wear the laurels
which will be undisputably his due.
	Mrs. Slocum's interesting speech was imbued
throughout with the earnest pathos and elo-
quence born of full conviction of the truthful-
ness and deep-rooted blessings to humanity,
that would spring from the accomplishment
of the enfrachnisement of women. Her placid
and peaceful face shone with her good will to
all women; and her beautiful, silvery hair was
tenderly suggestive of the long time she had
labored for the good of her sisters. We have
reason to love those veterans, one and all. She
touched as did every woman speaker, upon the
soul-thrilling mother question of right to the
possession of children. Shades of Nero! If
there is one thing in which a woman (a good
one of course) feels secure in, and of which
she thinks no one has a shadow of a right to
dispute her supremacy, it is her possession of
the children of her bosom. Our sacred Guide
Book tells us we are rewarded according to our
works, and what other reward could even be
suggested to a mother's heart than that of pos-
session of her children? If only the one ar-
gument of capacity was considered, magnanim-
ity could render but one verdict, Give them to
her. Were all men model husbands (and the
sad truth is that scarcely the majority are)
these vexed questions would never have arisen.
Not that I wish to be understood that women
are never in fault, I am far from being so ultra
as that, but we know that evils are and were
meant to be that we may be able to appreciate
heaven by comparison; and the sole struggle is
how to so adjust rights and privileges that
every one may enjoy some approach at least to
justice.
	Mrs. Josyln Gage, with her snowy crown of
womean's glory, must be heard to be appre-
ciated. Her wealth of scholarly lore is a bea-
con light to all women of her age, and to those
coming after her, encouraging them to press
onward in cultivating the germs of intelligence
given of God liberally to daughters as well as
sons. If I did not misunderstand her (and I
hope I did), she over-reached herself just once,

			[Column 2]
by making the assertion that if all things were
fair play, woman was man's superior. I regard
this as one step beyond the one desirable end
 of equality. For woman to assert herself as
the superior would be reversing the strict or-
ganization of God Himself upon the earth, as
taught us in Holy Writ, and also evidenced by
facts as they stand in Nature, unalterable either
by the feeble voice of man or woman. Man,
by his superior physique and mental force, was
from the beginning placed at the head, not-
withstanding the man with the largest brain
on record (70 ounces) was an inmate of an in-
sane asylum. This only proves that too much
of a good thing is good for nothing, and that
too much brain, like too much knowledge, may
make a man mad, and perhaps if every woman
had as much brain as the best man, they might
all go mad; at least, I fear some men would
with jealousy; for as a general thing they are
exeedingly "tender" of their supremacy. The
law of equal right now demanded by women
cannot cause any mental pertubation or disturb-
ance in the noble and true man, for he is in-
variably liberal and even solicits that women
be given every opportunity of improving and
making use of every talent her Father has
giver her, and in the almost unconscious en-
joyment of superiority, he is not forever green
with jealousy, as the man is who is writhing
under the humiliating consciousness of his own
inferiority. It is no part of the ambition of
any true  born, to lauch ahead, to launch ahead, and,
looking back over her shoulder, say, "Come on,
husband, and step lively, lest I lose you." So
that equal rights are only as a compensating
checkmate for bad men, and are in no wise to
infringe upon the good.
	After the afternoon session I had the pleasure
of an introduction to Miss Anothony, and a
second one to the noble Mrs. Gage, having
been presented to her previously at the recep-
tion held in the Woman's Pavilion during the
Centennial Exposition, Phila. I regard them
both as women of pleasing and impressive
presence.
			To be continued.


