WHY WE SHOULD SPEAK.

	So much is being said about the "Mormons,"
in the Congress of the United States, in the pul-
pits of ministers of all or nearly all denomina-
tions, in the newspapers and journals of the day,
that a thoughtful person would be inclined to
ask himself the question—is it not a greater vir-
tue to maintain silence on the subject than to
speak? To stand still and see the salvation of
God! Or if one speaks at all to be sure and do so
calmly and advisedly. Although it is an old
proverb that "silence means consent." If the
silence of this people could by any means be
construed into meaning consent to the calumnies
and wicked misrepresentations circulated about
them, then it would seem as if, verily the whole
people should raise their voices and cry aloud!
Certainly the most atrocious falsehood are pub-
lished about the "Mormons," and those who are
not well informed in regard to the subject will as
a matter of course believe these terrible things if
the other side is not presented. Consequenly a
statement of facts seems absolutely essential in
the present crisis of affairs.
	The Territory of Utah is in a most prosperous
condition, the present government affording am-
ple protection for all classes of citizens, were the
laws properly administered. And while there is
ample security for protection of life and property
and all have an opportunity to pursue whatever
employment or industry they choose, and to
worship God according to that form of religion
they see fit, or in accordance to the dictates
of each one's own consciences; and in
view of the peace, prosperity and growing
wealth and importance of the industries of
various kinds in Utah it seems strange that
apparantly sober-minded people, possessed of
good common sense should desire to provoke any
issue detirmental to the interests of so flourish-
ing a portion of the great Republic.
	And yet when the facts stare one in the face,
that public sentiment has been so throroughly
aroused as to urge upon Congress, the adoption
and enforcement of such extreme measures, a
are meditated by that august assembly in dealing
with the "Mormons," it becomes a sacred and
solemn duty, to claim protection from that gov-
ernment, which has proclaimed religious free-
dom to all the world, and under whose stars and
stripes, thousands of the people now declared
disloyal have been born and reared.
	It has been asserted that Utah is peopled with a
foreign element, who are anti-republican in prin-
ciple. "Mormonism" grew up in America in the
soil of the Republic; all the early followers or
disciples of the faith were citizens of the United
States. Many of them still live, but those who
have died, have left children and grand children
who are also citizens in their own right, withou
the process of naturalization. There are men and
women here who are as proud of their lineage a
any other of the descendants of the noble heroe
of 76. To call them the offscouring of the nation

[Column 2]
low and ignorant is to disgrace their glorious an-
cestry, who fought and bled for the liberty, now
enjoyed by American citizens.
	To be sure, "Mormon" Elders have gone abroad
and preached the Gospel among the nations as
well as in these United States, and thousands of
honest souls have been gathered out from abroad
and have emigrated to America and dir[-]laimed
all allegiance to foreign powers and become good
citizens, helped to build up the country, and sus-
tain the Constitution in all good faith and sin-
cerity, believing America to be "the land of the
free and the home of the brave."
	The present Legislative Assembly of the Ter-
ritory only contains nine members who are not
native-born citizens which is one of the
proofs that a good proportion of the population is
American. Statistics of Utah plainly show the
people are not ignorant. The women of the Ter-
ritory, taking them as a whole are well informed
on all the general topics of the day. In every
town and settlement there are organized socie-
ties where they meet together to be mutually
instructed on questions of a social, political,
moral or religious nature.
	Those unacquainted with life among the Mor-
mons, cannot realize how devastating and des-
olating would be the consequences of the blow
now aimed at Utah by the rulers of this nation,
were it to fall upon the people as is anticipated
by those who have succeeded in part in accom-
plishing their wicked designs.
	But there are still some brave men, who dare
to maintain the principles of equality and jus-
tice, for the oppressed in face of the bitterest op-
position, and these few, may save the honor of
the nation; may by their sound reasoning and
high-minded and broad philanthropy, cause Con-
gress to pause and deliberately consider the cost
of the work it has undertaken to do, before care-
fully going over all the ground. In the mean-
time, this people have the right of defending
their faith and practices, as they may think best;
it is only consistent that being so much talked
about they should make some positive vindica-
tion of the truth, of the doctrines as they un-
derstand them, for which they are ostracized.
Petition and memorialize the American Con-
gress, that its members may be left without an
excuse, should they go to such extremes as to
bring themselves under condemnation to a fu-
ture day. But as one honorable man of the world
remarked to the writer not long since:—"I am
fearful," and said he "I use the word understand-
ingly in its fullest sense that the rulers of this
nation will do something which they will regret
in a day to come, because it will be contrary
to the spirit of freedom guaranteed to all men
under the Constitution."


[Column 1]
