PROVO.

	The Relief Society held a special Conference
in Provo Thursday, Nov. 15, 1881. Mrs. M.
T. Smoot presiding. After singing and prayer
Ma Smoot made a few excellent remarks, and
then Sister E. R. Snow Smith addressed the
congregation. I am thankful that you and I
my sisters were worthy to come forth in this
dispensation, that we are a portion of the
favored ones, and I am proud to be associated
with the faithful who are trying to build up
Zion. Our duties are multiplying and will con-
tinue, and we find that to-day we can accomplish
what we once thought impossible. I think we
do not search those sacred books that God has
placed within our reach as much as we should.
If the Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine
and Covenants could give us knowledge to find
gold, we would study them more than we do
now. We often wonder that we can forget
heavenly things and cling to that which is
earthly. God requires us to cling to that faith
by which the dead were raised and the sick
were healed. We need to draw nearer to our
God; but those things need not deprive a
mother from performing her daily, household
duties. She needs great faith to form the future
character of her children. I wish to speak to
mothers about sending their children to the
Primary Meetings. Children need constant
training and protection from the influences
that are creeping into our midst; do not neglect
your little ones mothers, let them go to their
meetings, or after awhile they will not want to
go. It is not of much use to educate the head

[Column 2]
if the heart is neglected, and if the Spirit of
God does not dwell in the heart. I often won-
der what we should have been if these societies
had not been organized. Let us be united and
put away every thing that is calculated to
devide. God has placed within our reach
means enough to insure our salvation. Who
are we? Why we are daughters of God! and
I once heard Joseph say that the least saint oc-
cupied a higher standing than kings or potent-
ates; but we all have to endure the trials of
life, for the Lord has said He would have a
tried people. If I had understood Plural Mar-
riage when I embraced it as I do to-day, it
would have been no trial to me; but I am
thankful to God that his grace was sufficient
for me, and if there are any here that do not
know for themselves that this principle is true,
let them seek to God for a testimony. God is
on our side we have nothing to fear from our
enemies they can go no farther than He is will-
ing; we want to have the peace of God within
us to strengthen both body and mind. Teach
your children the principle of tithing; teach
them by example; and it will be a principle in
their minds forever; let them grow up in the
habit of it, if you have but little get the bless-
ing of God upon it. I would rather have 90
cts with the blessing of God than the $1,00
without it. We were counseled last year, be-
ing the Jubilee year, to lend the grain that had
been stored up by the sisters. but that coun-
sel does not extend any farther than last year.
We are to go on storing up our grain as usual,
and after we give our wheat we have no more
claim on it; it belongs to the Lord, it is stored
up against a time of famine, not to be drawn
out till the Lord commands, it is sacred. I
pray that we may have the sweet commun-
ion of the holy spirit to be with us all, Amen.
	Ma Smoot: "I feel that I have been fed with
the words of eternal life, given by the holy in-
spiration of God, I feel grateful to the sisters
for meeting with us" etc, etc. Sister Louie
Felt "My mission lies more with the children
and I would entreat the mothers to send their
children to the Primary Meetings. We have
had a feast here this morning and I pray that the
words may sink deep into our hearts; my aim
is the same as yours,that we may make a bright
record for ourselves. I wish to say to my sis-
ters, let each one take the EXPONENT. My
prayer is that we may be faithful to the end.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith spoke on the contingent
fund for the Stake thought each society ought
to contribute to it, for what is the use of a
treasurer without a fund. Bishop Johnson;
I feel well in meeting with the sisters, I always
feel well paid although many will say I have no
time. Have we any time of our own? No! we
have not it is the Lord's. I was pleased to hear
the sisters speak on the subject of tithing; the sis-
ters should pay their tithing, and pay it cor-
rectly; I feel that we are a blessed people above
all other people and may God give us strength
to perform every duty is my prayer." Meeting
adjourned until 3 o'clock when the Primary
Associations of the city were to meet. The
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions to meet in the evening.
				CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec'y.
