BY HANNAH T. KING.
 You ask me to give you my views of Woman!
I suppose you know it is a favorite subject with
me; I own it, and know it is a subject worthy
a mightier pen than mine, but not one more
appreciative. No, sir; I yield that palm to
none; Woman stands in the studio of my mind
as a work worthy of her Creator, and bearing
a striking affinity to him! worthy to be the
partner and co-mate of her brother, man, for
time and all eternity; worthy to be his friend,
his counselor, often in trying circumstances his
teacher, his upholder—truly all names in that
one the Bible gives her, his "helpmeet."  That
we often see her fail in these noble qualities,
has been no fault in the Creator; all that He
has placed in that mysterious, complex organ-
ization is still there, often hid up through a
long and barren life. Often she "dies and
inakes no sign” of the grand nobility that has
lain silent and unheeded, because progress is
not deemed necessary for her! why or where-
fore, the grand future has to reveal. Probably
there was a time, the mightiest epoch in human
life, when, in her self-sacrificing nature, she
consented to humiliate herself and her poster-
ity for a purpose grand and great as the uni-
verse is broad and long, and lasting as the
eternities!
	Was the rod put into the hand of man, or
did he usurp it? Has not much of what she
has endured arisen from her ignorance, from
her non-appreciation of herself?  Has she
grown into the apathy that now hangs about
her by a feeling that she had no part or lot in
solving the wonderful problem of human life?
There is no effect without a cause, but this also
is a problem yet to be solved.
 I do most assuredly believe that woman
evinces a higher type of the heavenly than
man; she is more spiritual, more refined; more
exclusive and original than man; and these at-
tributes give her a keener perception, a clearer
view of truth, of justice, an intuition, if you
please, which enables her at once to see and
understand, and instantly to comprehend.
Wilkie Collins calls this grand acme of char-
acter "impulse," simply because he knows no
better. I ever liked Brigham Young's judg-
ment of woman, and he seldom spoke with
velvet lips on such a matter. He said he would,
in general, take a woman's judgement before a
man's on common subjects, because they were
not hampered with the wire-workings of the
world; their minds were clear, like a sheet of
paper, etcetera; you will guess the rest.
If woman knew herself, she would often be
in school cultivating herself, consulting the
oracle, i. e., the spirit that whispers in every
human soul of its grand origin and its still
grander future. But she is awaking and work-
ing up to a point, and where she lacks strength
and wisdom God will help her, for she is his
daughter, and I know that fathers love their
daughters and are proud of them when they
are worthy of his love.
I am equally, and ever have been, a great
admirer of noble men. Some would say it
bordered on the romantic. N'importe! I give
it another name. I know that man is God's
Vicegerent on the earth, and woman is his co-
mate, to walk side by side, shoulder to shoul-
der, hand in hand through thejourney of life
on earth. Neither can appear before God
without the other, for Scriptures says, "The man
is not without the woman, nor the woman with-
out the man in the Lord." Do these words
mean nothing? Rather, is not salvation em-
bodied in them? You called my last letter
"stern;" let me tell you there is no softening of
the brain in Truth; it is a two-edged sword
that cuts both ways. I am in the school of
Truth, and my words bear that motto.


