MY DEAR LULA:
	I have been reflecting upon the general sit-
uation of the Latter-day Saints and their ac-
cusers. Why is it that we have not more faith?
We who have cried unto the Lord, and had
our petitions granted time after time, how is it
that we cannot have faith sufficient to accom-
plish any and every righteous undertaking?
It is perhaps, not expedient that we should at
present, exercise that divine gift to the extent
that some of us might desire. Otherwise, I
think it would be given to us in a greater de-
gree than is yet manifested among us. We
know we have no reason to fear for the Lord
is with us and He is able to accomplish His
own purposes.
	It is a source of very great happiness to me,
that all my children are on the Lord's side of
the battle in this terrible day of calamitous

[Column 2]
events. How merciful the Lord has been to
me in answering my prayers in this matter!
For when my children were small and I used
to bathe their little bodies, it was my continual
prayer that God would keep them from sin,
cleanse their hearts and make them brave to
battle for the right and to over-come evil, that
they might be worthy to dwell with Him in His
Kingdom. I believe that each one of my sons
and daughters are now striving to serve the
Lord and lay up treasures in heaven. Have I
not reason to rejoice and praise God? I feel
like bearing my testimony to the truth of the
Latter-day work, with a desire that the same
may abide with my children and my children's
children forever.
	I had the great privilege of knowing Jos-
eph Smith personally; and I know for myself
and not for another that he was a true prophet
of the only true and living God. I know that
every principle brought forth and established
by him is of God, and that the Lord will sup-
port and sustain those who will be faithful and
diligent in upholding and defending those prin-
ciples.
	The enemies of all righteousness are blinded
in regard to the plan of salvation and the re-
demption wrought out by the atoning blood of
Christ. Hence they wage war against those
who would meekly strive to follow out the pat-
tern given by Jesus, and execute the purposes
of His Father upon the earth. They complain
of the so called"Mormons" because they make
covenants with the Lord by sacrifice and re-
ceive the blessings which follow such works.
It is something of which they are entirely ignor-
ant, and into which they are determined not
to get an insight; but still they must complain
and strive to get control of the people who are
seeking to serve God that they may prohibit
the building up of His Kingdom upon the
earth. But they will be disappointed in their
designs as those people were  sought to
take away the rights of the Prophet Daniel, so
that he should not even pray to the Lord whom
he served. Did those people believe in God
or in His prohpet? They had the same respect
for holy beings and sacred things that our per-
secutors have to-day. What did they accom-
plish? Their own destruction! And those who
are seeking to destroy the Latter-day Saints
and the Priesthood of God from off the earth
today, will accomplish the same thing from them-
selves.
	My children be true to God and to your-
selves. Shrink not from any duty however
dark the way may appear before you. Put
your trust in God, knowing that this life is of
but little moment compared to that which
awaits the faithful followers of Jesus Christ,

	"Eye's not seen the untold treasured,
	Which the Father hath in story,
	Teeming with surpassing pleasures,
	Even life for evermore!"

	Your father joins me in best love and con-
stant prayers for your present and eternal wel-
fare.
		Your affectionate mother,
					Susan K. Greene


