IN MEMORIAM
	ELIZABETH ANN WHITNEY.
 She has gone to the realms of an infinite rest,
		We shall hear her sweet voice no more;
	She has joined the bright ranks of the happyand blest,
		With the Just who hare died before.
	And she’ll sing in the mansions of glory above,
		Of Jesus, His power to save;
	His wonderful mission of peace and of love,
		And His victory over the grave.

	Mother Whitney has gone to rest. Yea, she
has gone to that rest that remains to a Saint of
God. She has passed the ordeal that ushers the
(pure spirit into another and higher state of
being. The tenderly beloved, the angelic peace-
maker, the sweet songstress of Zion, has left us
 to join the innumerable, invisible company who
wait just the other side the vail to see God's pur-
poses fulfilled, that they may return again to
enjoy a full fruition of glory celestial.
	Elizabeth Ann Whitney, well known to the
Church for her faithfulness, integrity and good
works, departed this life to-day, Feb. 15, 1882, at
ten minutes past two p. m., at the residence of
her son-in-law, Isaac Groo, in this city, after an
illness of four weeks, during which period she
sometimes suffered extreme pain for days to-
gether. Always patient, sweet and gentle, sub-
missive to the will of God, often repeating the
words, “Father’s time is the best time.”
	Deceased was the widow of Presiding Bishop
Newel K. Whitney, who died Sept. 23, 1850.
Sister Whitney has been the mother of eleven..
children, six of whom are now living to mourn
the loss of an exemplary parent, whose life of
purity and excellence will be for generations to
come an example worthy of emulation through-
out all Israel. A heavenly influence ever seemed
to surround her like a halo, and saint or sinner
could not approach her without feeling in some
degree its power.
	Sister Whitney was one of the tried and
proven friends of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and she loved to talk of him and the principles
he had taught and the associations connected
with his memory.
	In our next Issue we will give a sketch of her
life.


