		THE REASON WHY.

	What is the reason that all eyes are turned
toward Utah?  Why is it, while the  whole
civilized world is agitated by questions of
grave, social import, and men who sit in high
places fear and tremble on account of the se-
cret combinations and the dangers that increase
on every hand?  When even the head of the
Chief Magistrate of this enlightened nation
has been laid low by the hand of the assassin,
a would-be maniac?  And alas! it is not the
first, but the second of our presidents that has
basely fallen by assassination.  While crime
stalks abroad, unpunished, through the land,
and increases to such a fearful extent that the
laws of man are inadequate to reach it, and
new and strange diseases are exercising the
minds and battling the skill of the medical
[two unreadable lines printed backwards]

[Column 2]
faculty-for do not men and women constantly
violate the laws of  natural affection, and that
which was once considered the crowning joy of
woman, her motherhood, that honor which the
daughters of God's ancient people desired
above all things is cast aside by many as a 
thing of naught, and almost looked upon as a 
disgrace.  While the disobedience of children
is becoming proverbial, for there are but few,
comparatively, that give to their parents that
respect and reverence that their age and social
relations demand.  When we contemplate these
things, is it any wonder that the whole head is
sick and the whole heart faint?  Can the
Christian world tell us the reason why these
things are so?  Can the politicians solve the
problem?   No, they cannot; for does not bold
infidelity walk with the unblushing front, seeking
to destroy the ancient landmarks, daring to 
trample on the laws of God and bid defiance
to his power, and the thoughts of men wander
hither and thither, and fail to find a resting
place in the systems taught by the theologians
of the day.  Can the Christian world find a
remedy for these evils?  No, they cannot; or
at least they have failed to do so.
	What then is the reason that all eyes are
turned toward Utah?  Towards the handful
who were driven into the wilderness, who under-
took what seemed to be impossibilities to re-
deem this barren region of country from the
wild beast and sage brush, and made the wil-
derness to "blossom as the rose," that they
might serve God according to their consciences,
and enjoy the liberty guaranteed to them by
the Constitution of their country.  For this
privilege they were willing to suffer hunger
and thirst, and many laid their bones by the
wayside; for this they fought the cricket and
the grasshopper, and while themselves suffer-
ing for sufficient food, divided their scanty
portion with the Red Man, that they might
teach him the art of industry and to live in
peace with the white man and each other?
	What, then, have the Mormons done, that
this hue and cry should be raised against them?
Why are their names cast out as evil?  Why
are all kinds of absurd falsehoods manufac-
tured and sent abroad by evil-minded men,
who seek to work us injury, by men who
come into our midst to gain wealth?  They
belong to the same class that cried out in the 
days of Paul.  "Great is Diana of the Ephe-
sians."  Not that they cared for Diana, but
because their craft was in danger, for they got
their wealth by making images for  her shrine.
How can we bear all this misrepresentation?
It is because the Lord has said, "Blessed are
ye when all men speak evil of you falsely for
my name's sake," and notwithstanding all the
trials the Latter-day Saints have gone through
there is one woe they will most certainly escape:
"Wo be unto you when all men speak well of
you."  But why all this intolerance against
the Mormons?  It is because the Lord has
again spoken from the heavens, and set His
hand to bring about His purposes in the last
days.  It is because the little stone that was
cut out of the mountain without hands has
commenced to roll, and will continue to grow
and increase till it shall fill the whole earth,
and none can stop its progress... Man may
rage and imagine all kinds of vain things, but
vainly do men seek to overthrow the designs
of the Almighty, or stay the hand of Him
[two unreadable lines printed backwards]

[Column 3]
who saith to the raging sea, "Be still, thus far
shalt thou go and no farther; here shall thy
proud waves be stayed."
	We put our trust in Him who setteth up
kings and putteth them down, and one shall
dare to say, What doest thou? This is the God
in whom we trust, and He will not suffer His
people to be confounded. This is the 
<i oj="" gnol="" i="" i'k-j.—’i="" "tt'tt-—-—-i="" ,.="">can afford to say to the wicked, and to our
oppressors, Get you gone, I have nothing to do
with you; the reign of righteousness is about
to be ushered in; and I have my work to do,
and hope to play my part in the great consum-
mation.
