EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE blanks for the Y. L. M. I. A. reports are
for sale at the Deseret News Office; also blanks
for Primary Associations.

	QUESTIONS and Answers, by E. R. S. Smith,
for sale at this office; price, twenty-five cents.
Primary Hymn Books, two for twenty-five
cents; Correspondence of the Palestine Tourists,
cloth bound, $2.25, leather gilt, $3.00; Poems by
E. R. Snow, second volume, are also for sale
here, price, $1.25 and $1.75.

	WE learn, by letter, that the two children
emigrated last year from England by the mem-
bers of the Primary Associations in Brigham
City, have been provided with comfortable
homes in families, where they will have the ad-
vantages of being properly trained and instructed.
A noble work, a blessed work for these children
to do.

[Column 2]
	Articles laid, over for next issue; Deaths, Mrs.
Sarah Very, Mrs. Mary Ann Ellis and the Life
Sketch of Elizabeth Ann Whitney which is too
lengthy for this issue, but will be given in our
next number in a complete form with a poem
written on her last birthday Dec. 26, 1881. A
Distinguished Woman and Scenes and Incidents
in Nauvoo will be continued. "Some Facts that I
Know," and another article addressed to Mrs.
Emily Scott, also a second article from Mrs.
Scott herself.

	MRS. Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary Presiding
Board Relief Society, requests all Stake Secre-
taries of that organization to forward semi-
annual reports as early as the 15th of March, as
she is required to hand in the general report to
President Taylor's office ten days previous to
the April Conference. Last October there were
five Stake reports too late to be included in the
general report. Secretaries should pay particu-
lar attention to this notice, and govern them-
selves accordingly.

	THE Secretary of the central board Y. L. M.
I. A. requests all Stake Secretaries of Y. L. M.
I. A. to forward their semi-annual report as
soon as possible, in order that the general report
may be handed in to Prest. Taylor's office ten
days previous for the April Conference. Direct
Miss Louie Wells; care WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City, Utah: Stake reports of Primary
Associations should also be forwarded, in order
to have a general report prepared for the coming
Conference. Direct to Lillie Freeze, Salt
Lake City, Utah.

	THE sisters of the Relief Society of South
Cottonwood met at the residence of Sister Mag-
gie Cahoon, at 11 o'clock a. m. Feb. 13, as a sur-
prise party for President Jeanette Cahoon. After
the party had convened some of the sisters went
to the residence of Sister Jeanette, and returned
with her to the residence of her sister, Maggie;
each heart was filled with joy to meet with their
worthy President, who has labored so diligently
for the past fourteen years for the benefit of the
Relief Society. They then presented to her a
handsome easy chair, together with other pres-
ents. She appreciated the good feeling and
thanked the sisters for this demonstration of
respect to her. Thirty persons sat down to din-
ner, and the tables were laden with the bounties
of the earth; after which singing, recitations,
and other amusements were indulged in until
six o'clock in the evening, when the party re-
turned home, feeling amply repaid for the visit.

	THE Woman's Conference in this Stake of
Zion will be held on Friday and Saturday, the
10th and 11th inst., in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Hall. It is earnestly requested by
the Stake Presidents of the respective organiza-
tions that there be a good attendance from all
parts of the Stake, if practicable. Some impor-
tant business will be brought before the Confer-
ence. The Relief Society will hold their meet-
ings the first day, Friday, 10th, and on the
morning of the second day; Saturday, 11th, the
Primary Conference will be held. It is expected
all officers of these association who can make
it convenient to attend will do so. If the
weather is fine, the children who reside in the
city will be expected to attend their Conference
on Saturday morning. The Young Ladies Con-
ference will be held in the afternoon of the same
day, at two p, m., and it is sincerely hoped there
will be a prompt attendance of all officers and
as many members as possible. If the house is
too small, which we sincerely hope may be the
case, no doubt the Conference will adjourn to
the Assembly Hall, or some larger building.
Secretaries of each organization should be on
hand with reports in good time.


