			BEAR LAKE
   Synopsis of Conference of Relief Societies
of the Bear Lake Stake of Zion, held Sunday,
Jan. 15, 1882.  Present of the stand--Wm.
Budge and James H. Hart, of the Presidency
of teh Stake; Presidents Julia Lindsay and
Elizabeth Collins, of the Stake Relief Socie-
ties; President Nancy Pugmire, of the Stake
Y. L. M. I. A.; President A. Laker, of the
Stake Primary Associations;  Bishop J. A. 
Hunt; Presidents of the branch Relief Socie-
ties, Y. L. M. I. Associations and Primary As-
sociations, and others. Singing, "High on the
Mountain Tops," etc. Prayer by Prest. Wm.
Budge. Singing, "With Joy We Own Thy Ser-
vants, Lord."
   President Lindsay felt thankful for the good
circumstances that attended the opening of the
conference, and called the presidents of the
branch Relief Societies to the stand.  The fol-
lowing societies were then reported: St. Charles,
Mary Jacobs; Bloomington, Catherine Nelson;
Paris, First Ward, M. Innes; Ovid, M. Carrol-
son; Fish Haven, F. Howell; Garden City, A.
E. Cook; Laketown, M. E. Findlay. A writ-
ten report from Liberty was read. Paris, 2d
Ward,  Woodruff, Randolph,  Bennington,
Georgetown and Saleratus Creek Societies were 
not represented.
   President Lindsay explained why the Statis-
tical and Financial Reports were not read this
morning. Spoke on the principle of order,
and requested the sisters to forward all contri-
butions to the Temple to her, with the names
of the donators, so that she might forward the
same to the President of the Stake. We have
to be energetic and persevering in order to ac-
complish what the Lord requires at our hands.
   The Financial and Statistical Reports of the 
different branch societies were then read.
   Singing, "Before Jehovah's Awful Throne."
Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.  Benedic-
tion by President Hart. 
   2 p. m.  Singing, "O Awake my Slumbering
Minstrel." Prayer by Bishop Hunt. Singing,
"Except the lord Conduct the Plan." The
sacrament was then administered, during which
the choir sang, "Ye Children of our God" and
"O God, the Eternal Father".
  The following reports were then read:
   Statistical Report for the half year ending
Dec. 31, 1881: Teachers, 123; members, 458;
total officers and members, 629; meetings held,
77; average attendance, 180; Church papers,
161; WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 35.
   Financial Report: On hand at last report,
cash, $37 35; property, $161 81, wheat, 387bu., 17 lbs. Receipts: Cash, $248 53; property,
$19 10; wheat, 34 bus., 10 lbs. On hand:
Cash, $88 55; property, $758 25; wheat, 707
bus., 37 lbs.
   President P. Hoganson, of Montpelier, and
President Sparks, of Dingle Dell, made brief
remarks.
   President Lindsay said there are a great
many duties devolving upon the sisters of the
Relief Societies.  Related her early experience
in connection with the Relief Societies in Kays
Ward. While in one of those meetings the
spirit of prophecy rested upon her, but through
timidity she neglected this spirit, and it left 
her. She instantly became darkened in mind, 
while another sister in the meeting arose and
gave the same prophecy that the Spirit of God
dictated to the speaker. She then made a
covenant that she would never again neglect
the whisperings of the Spirit of God. No
person can conscientiously sit down in Zion
contented and say there is nothing to do.
There is an abundance of work to accomplish,
and our time should be spent in helping to do
it. Spoke of the negligent condition of some
of the sisters in not attending their Relief So-
ciety. Every one that neglects the meetings,
loses a certain portion of the Spirit of God.
The Lord has placed a great duty, as mothers,


upon-us-in-training up.our.children.in the fear
and admonition of the Lord, and if we neglect
this duty,“the Lord will surely-hold-us account-
able.,.. Urged upon the, mothers to teach their
children-, the: importance of seeking unto the
Lord for a testimony .concerning'the truth of 
this work and :the.-prophetic mission of Joseph
Smith. We must he charitable with each
other, and bear with one another’s weaknesses.
Gaveimuch valuable.instruction in relation to,
the principle .of polygamy, and advised all
never. to fight against this, sacred ordinance.
Sisters,xnever influence your daughters against
this. Ifi we-live--our religion properly, there
will.never’be trouble in our ‘ families.
AVeshould never interfere with one another’s
family relations, because it invariably brings
strife -and -discord; Rather be peacemakers,-
for “blessed are the peacemakers for they shall
see God.” Cultivate our minds, and we will
find it to our advantage, both in this world and
in that to come; Imparted much valuable in-
struction-to the. teachers of Relief Societies,
and’acquainted them jvith their duties. Slidwed
how the sisters might gain the blessings of God,
and closed by invoking the blessings of God
upon all present. '
President Collins felt thankful to God that
He had given her strength to.be in the midst of
the, people. If we do not do our duties to
God and men, we cannot expect to gain those
blessings that they enjoy who live with an eye
single before God.
	President Wm. Budge said he had listened
to the,reports that, had' been read- with great
interest,- as. also--the instruction’s of the sisters.
Felt_grateful' to the Lord' that there were sis-
ters among us’who labored so incessantly for
the good of their -fellows; knew their labors
would meet with good results. Trusted they
would,continue. in well doing. In traveling
 around 'the Stake he was -glad to see the pro-
gress of the people. There are few among us
who will not lend the helping , hand when it is
needed; allseeming to meet the obligations
the-Lord is bringing upon us from time to
time..AVe must depend upon the Lord in the
fulfilment of our duties, and not-upon the “arm
of'flcsh"`for God has forbidden ‘this;-and in
 doing so we. have n.Q claim upon, his,blessings;'
AVe cannot; reasonably expect to enter heaven
without self-denial. How could we turn from
 evil ways and live near to God, without Some
self-denial,-or sacrifice. Our interests are so
combined,-that we cannot do good to others,
without.benefitting ourselves. Duties have
been Imposed upon us which’we’ sometimes feel
to shrink :frOm; but through our covenants to
God,,we realize it is right to discharge every
reSppHsibility placed upon us by our Heavenly
F&ther; "Hoped the mothers .Would calL their
children arqund them at. night1 and-instruct
them' ih the things. of God,’ teaching them a‘s
the Holy Spirit directs. The brethren also
with their.boys- Dwelt, upon. the duties, of
parentsand trusted all would realize their po-
sition before God, Concluded by exhorting
 allifto faithfulness, and invoking the blessings
ofAlmighty’God,
I President Lindsay announced that owing to
SisterEmeline-Rich; Treasurer to thH. Stake,
moving to Provo, it would be -necessary to ap-
point another., in her place; Sister Margaret
Stucki'was nominated-by the unanimbus vote
of the'Oonferencfe- to that position; who was.
then set apart by Prest. AVm. Budge.
 Confere'nce -adjourned 'sine, die.’ Singing,
“The Earth is the Lord’sBenediction -by'
President1'Hart. '	 	v-:
-AElizabeth Pdomire, Secretary.
	J Budge,	Assistant	Secretary


