	THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE HEARING.--
A public Legislative hearing was given by
the Joint Special Committee to the petitioners
for Women Suffrage and others, in Boston,
January 30, at 9.30 a.m., in the Green Room
of the State House. It drew together a large
audience, which crowded the hall to its utmost
capacity. Hon. Wm. I. Bowditch, president
of the Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation, made the opening address with great
force and eloquence.
	Mrs. Lucy Stone spoke with much feeling
of the long thirty years, during which the
friends of Woman Suffrage had come annually
to this State House to ask for equal rights for
the women of Massachusetts. She appealed to 
the committee to make the case of the women
their own. She said: "The torn battle flags in
the rotunda show the strife men have made for
liberty and equal rights for me. We have
no battle flags to show for our cause, but thirty
years of our lives lie behind us devoted to the
great purpose of securing equal rights for
women. We have seen our youth and middle
life pass from us in  vain asking for rights
which all men have without asking, and now,
with old age coming on, we are still petitioning
for this sacred right of suffrage.--Ex.

	Augusta Moore says in the Evangelist: "I
took up a daily paper one day and saw nine-
teen divorces in it. I took up another and saw
five. I went to a certain church and found
there, in full communion, a woan who has 
two husbands. I visited the house of 'a lead-
ing member' in a church, and found there a
minister who has divorced one wife (a virtu-
ous woman), and is married to another. I 
know a minister who married a doctor to a 
woman for whom he had divorced his excellent
wife. This was in Clinton, Ct. Time would
fail me to particularize the cases of this sort
that I know, and I live among the best people
that there are in the world. These cases are
as plenty everywhere as they are about me--
indeed, much more so in many localities. A
friend writes me form California that it is
hardly safe to say 'divorce,' so many of 'the
very nicest people' have two or three husabands
or wives living. Now is not this an encour-
aging state of things? Is it any wonder that
some ministers are telling us how fast the world
is growing better, how the very millennium is
upon us? Is it to be feared we can hardly ex-
ert just the moral influence that is needed over
the Mormons till the States are reformed. Prof.
Austin Phelps says: 'We are not half awake
to the fact that by our laws of divorce and our
toleration of the social evil, we are doing more
to corrupt the nation's heart than Mormonism,
tenfold.'"--Cincinnati Times.


IN the Congress of the United States, the
House Committee on Rules have agreed to
recommend to the House the appointment of a
Woman Suffrage Committee of nine members

	ANTI- Polygamy petitions and bills for spe-
cial adverse legislation for Utah are creating a 
FURORE. The women of Utah are not excited,
for they know in whom they trust, and they
know their cause is just.

	MRS. J. R. Effinger occupied her husband's
pulpit at the Unitarian Church, Bloomington,
Ill., recently, and delivered a very able and in-
teresting address of "The Blessing of Giving."
It is said to have been a most impressive ser-
vice and a large audience.


IT would be difficult to name five more earnest,
intelligent,and high-minded women than ‘Grace
Greenwood,” “Mrs. Julia Ward Howe," "Jennie
June," Mrs. Mary Clemmer Ames, and Louise
Chandler Mculten, They are all journalists and
authors, and have all excelled as such.-- Ex.


