INSTRUCTIONS
TO THE, SECRETARIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY;
	IN REPLY TO FREQUENT INQUIRIES.
	It is very desirable that a uniformity should
exist throughout all the branches of the Relief
Society in regard to the Secretaries’ Books.
	In some business departments of the Relief
Society, we are under the necessity of varying,
in order to meet the varied local circumstances
of the different branches; but this does not, in
any instance, apply to the Secretaries.
	In each department we want to learn to do
business in the best possible manner, and to
adopt the manner in which it can be done with
the greatest facility and the least labor.
	The Secretaries of the various Branches of the
Belief Society are, or should be, historians of
their respective Branches. One Book (or when
one Book is full another succeeds it) should con-
tain the whole history—all records of the Branch;
and those records should comprise everything
worthy of preservation, and in as concise a man-
ner as practicable. In this, skill and Judgment
are requisite, and “practice makes perfect.”
	In the first place - at the meeting the Secre-
tary should take minutes of all business transac-
tions and whatever is said or done that should
be read at the next meeting; all that has been
donated to the society since the date of the last
meeting, with the name in full of each doner;
the amount of each cash donation, and the price
of each article donated. These figures properly
placed in the margin, are readily footed in mak-
ing up reports: and all proceedings are readily
referred to under their respective dates.
	Should the Branch have an organized Board
of Teachers (which is unnecessary in small
Branches), and that Board a Secretary, a copy
of the minutes of each teachers' meeting must


be forwarded to the general Secretary in time
for her to compile under date whatever is worthy
of record, in its proper order in Book.
	In making up Quarterly or Annual Reports,
the Treasurer will furnish the Secretary with a
list of all Disbursements from date of last report,
which, after having been read and accepted by
the Branch, also read at the Conference for
which it was prepared, the Secretary will copy
it under date, and thus have in one Book the
minutes of each meeting, all the receipts and
disbursements, comprising all business matters
of the Branch.
	The foregoing is in accordance with the origi-
nal sample Book, which was fully approved by
the Prophet Joseph Smith, through whom the
revelation was given for the organization of the
Relief Society.
					E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	S. L. City,  January, 1882.


[Column 1]
		THE PRAYER OF FAITH.
	We regret to learn that Brother Tibbet's
earthly career has ended; but while we sympa-
thize with his sorrowing family, a ray of joy bursts
forth, in remembrance that he died in full faith
in the Gospel. And not only so, but having a
knowledge that his partner, Sister Tibbets, has
a strong testimony of its truth. This I learned
from herself. She told me that while in Eng-
land a tumor, or cancer, began to make its ap-
pearance, and was so painful that she had no
rest. She went to consult a physician, who told
her he would undertake the cure, but it was a
painful operation, and he could not promise the
result. This alarmed her, and she resolved to
call upon the Elders to administer to her. They
came, and at teh same time the doctor came
also; she introduced him to the Elders, and told
him why they had come. "Well," said he, "if
they cure you I can send them several others,
for they are very difficult to cure."The physi-
cian left, and the Elders administered according
to the pattern our Savior has given, using oil in
the name of Jesus. The result was a perfect
cure. She told me herself that she never felt a
pain or a twinge from that day to this.
	This reminds me of the first time I saw the
oil administered in the name of the Lord. It
was at the house of Sister Catharine Clawson,
in Utica, New York. She is the mother of Bro.
H. B. Clawson, who was living in the city of
Utica at the time. We had been baptized one
week previously under the hands of Elder James
Blakesley, who brought the Gospel to Utica in
the year 1842. Sister Clawson, with three of
her sisters and two nieces besides myself, were
baptized Sept. 15, 1842. The next Sabbath, just
after morning service, Sister Ruth Reese (after-
wards wife of Heber C. Kimball) remarked that
she was going to see Catharine, because her
child was sick, which would prevent her from
attending meeting that morning. I asked to go
with her, another asked the same privilege, when
Elder Blakesley inquired, "May I go?" "Cer-
tainly," was the reply. After arriving and be-
ing seated, Elder B. says: "If your clock was
out of repair, who do you think would be the
best repairer?" We looked at each other, and
wondered why he asked this question. He no-
ticed our embarassment, and said: "Would not
the maker of the clock be the best repairer?"
"Certainly," was the reply. "Then the Maker
of this little frame is the best repairer." The
mother then said, "Will you administer to the
child?" He replied, "Let us pray." We all
knelt, when he offered up a prayer; then arising
he laid his hands upon the head of the child,
and prayed God to restore it to health. She did
not open her eyes, or notice anything, until he

[Column 2]
had finished his prayer, when she immediately
looked up at him, then reached her hands to her
mother, who took her up. She asked for a
drink of water, after which she called for some-
thing to eat, and then got down to play, looking
so cheerful and happy. This was Bro. H. B.
Clawson's youngest sister, Harriet, now living.
	Sister Ruth Kimball will remember this cir-
cumstance as well as myself.  I must say that I
was delighted with the thought that the Lord
could hear and answer prayer as anciently.  I
well remember my impression, which I gave
utterance to; it was this: To be healed like that
when I was sick would be the greatest testimony
I could ask; to know that I was accepted of the
Lord, and had been so greatly blessed by Him.
	It was two years from that time when I was
taken violently sick of a fever. My parents
lived on a farm five miles from Nauvoo at this
time. I had been sick four days and nights,
and my mother was doing her best to break the
fever. Finally some one asked if I had been ad-
ministered to. No, I had not thought of this,
but said I would. The next impression was,
you will not be healed; you are not as innocent
as that little child, and you have not lived faith-
ful. No, I know it, thought I, but I will be
blessed, for a blessing attends every effort we
make in keeping the commands of our Father.
Accordingly, two Elders came from the harvest
field; one was Emer Harris, a brother of Martin
Harris, the other my step-father, Bro. Dunlap.
But I found I could not sit up; mother sat and
held me up in bed. They laid their hands upon
my head. I wept, for I felt unworthy of the bless-
ing I sought. But in the midst of the prayer
my sorrow was turned to joy. I was healed. I
felt strong, I could sit alone and fan myself,
could eat with a good relish, and slept sweetly
all night, without awaking once. I was so
happy; I thought it the brightest day I had ever
seen in my life.
	Such is the effect of the prayer of faith since
the Gospel has been restored to the earth. And
such are the results when we come to our Heav-
enly Father in a humble, childlike manner, ask-
ing as a hungry child would do for a piece of
bread to satisfy the demands of nature. Yet
we are told there are many gifts given to each
one severally, as He will. And why? Because
we are all members of one body, and each one
must fill his or her sphere of action, and be per-
fect, even as our Father in Heaven is perfect.
How is that to be done? I understand it is to
fill our sphere as perfectly as God our Father
fills his, which is the earnest prayer of
