BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

We had known little but sickness and want
in Commerce, and the thought of leaving there
and returning to our early home and kindred
was indeed a delightful one to us children, who
had laid out many a plan for future pleasures and
enjoyment with our little friends and cousins,
in roaming over Mendon and Victor soil; but,
alas! we were doomed to disappointment.
Sister Young, we heard, had received a
letter from Uncle Brigham, telling her to come
to Kirtland; and my brother William, who
had been down to see them, returned with the
news that they were packing up. Sister Orson
Pratt who was living with us, met Bro. Hyrum
Smith that day and spoke of Sister Young's
going East; he said he should advise her, by all
means, to stay where she was.
My mother had taken no decided step, nor
did she intend to until Joseph returned from
Washington; but when she heard Brother
Hyrum's mind upon the subject, she gave up
all thought of going back, and this all the
airy castles which we had built were thrown to
the ground.
Joseph had gone to Washington to lay the
case of the Missouri persecutions before Con-
gress, and was accompanied by Sidney Rigdon,
Judge Elias Higbee and O. P. Rockwell. The
feeling of injustice manifested towards him
and his people was no less then than it is to-
day, though at that time polygamy had not
been revealed; and when we hear people say
that that is all that is offensive in "Mormon-
ism," the only feeling we can express is pity
and contempt, for they are wilfully ignorant.
The Prophet Joseph's last interview with
President Van Buren and John C. Calhoun
are worthy of note, as the feeling then was
quite in keeping with the present generous and
magnanimous spirit manifested by the sectarian
world toward an innocent and inoffensive peo-
ple. The Prophet says:
"During my stay I had an interview with
Martin Van Buren, the President, who treated
me very insolently, and it was with the great-
est reluctance he listened to our message, which
when he had heard he said, 'Gentlemen, your
cause is just, but I can do nothing for you; and
if I take up for you, I shall lose the vote of
Missouri.'    *     *     *       I also had an
interview with Mr. John C. Calhoun, whose
conduct towards me very ill became his posi-
tion. I became satisfied there was little use for
met to tarry to press the just claims of the Saints
on the protection of the President.
When Joseph returned to his people it must
have been with a feeling of relief, knowing
that he had done his duty, and therefore cleared
his skirts. The God of heaven had overruled
it so, and His Prophet and Saints felt to say
Amen; for they knew as well then as they
know to-day that "No weapon that is formed
against His people shall prosper."
Soon after his return, Joseph wrote a letter
to General Bennet, from which we take the
following, showing there was no spirit of dis-
couragement. He says:
"It is our intention to commence the erection
of some public buildings next spring. We
have purchased twenty thousand acres of land
in Iowa Territory, opposite this place, which is
fast filling up with our people. I desire all
the Saints, as well as all lovers of the truth
and correct principles, to come to this place as
fast as possible, or their circumstances will per-
mit, and endeavor, by energy of action and
concentration of talent, to effect those objects
that are so dear to us. Therefore, my general
invitation is, let all what will come, and partake
of the poverty of Nauvoo freely."
My father's first letter from England, dated
April 6, 1840, was received on the last day of
May, bringing the welcome news that they had
landed in England, though they had had a
very rough voyage, it being March, which was
considered the worst month in the year upon
the ocean.
I copy the following extracts from my moth-
er's letter, for the benefit of those who were
connected with her during her earthly pil-
grimage. They will no doubt bring back many
a forgotten scene and incident to their recollec-
tion. She writes:
"We are thankful to hear that you and your
brethren's lives were preserved amidst the dan-
gers of the ocean; that you have safely landed
on Europe's shore, and are enjoying once more
the blessing of health.   *    *    The Lord is
able to preserve whom He will, and I trust He
will preserve you and bring you safe home; for
it seems an age since youleft us.  *     *   I
have had another attack of the ague this 
Spring; yesterday I was very sick, but feel
better to-day. Our babe has been quite sick
ever since I had the ague; he took it from me.
William has worn it our fairly; has got so he
can work and not bring it on.
"The brethren have fenced and ploughed
my land, and William has planted it. He has
been to school some, and I intend he shall go
more. Truman Barlow keeps school in this
neighborhood; Helen goes when I can spare
her. I teach Heber at home, for I know of
no way that I can pay their schooling. It is
very annoying to my feelings to be dependent on
the Church when the Saints are so poor.
"I have no reason to complain, for I do not
suffer for anything, and I often  wish I could
know that you were as comfortable. We hear
of the distress and trouble in England, and I
feel for the Saints there; but the Lord will
provide for those that put their trust in
Him.   *   *  Brothers Hyde and Page started over
two months ago for Jerusalem, and are preach-
ing their way through with great success.  *   *
"I have just heard that there has been a re-
quest sent by the people of Iowa to Joseph to
preach next Sunday. There are between two
and three hundred people coming down the
river to hear him. He has requested the
brethren to give them seats near the stand.
Joseph has preached several times of late, and
told many of the mysteries of  kingdom.
There are more or less baptisms every week.
The Saints are gathering here very fast, and
the place is being built up with great rapidity.
"I attended a party last Thursday at Bro.
Robert Thompson's; it was three years that
day since they were married. They celebrated
the day by preparing a feast for the wives of
all the Elders that had gone to England.
They were all present but Sisters Hadlock and
Woodruff. Brother Hyrum Smith and wife
and Brother William Law and wife took sup-
per with us, after which we had singing. Bro.
Thompson then offered up a very appropriate
prayer for us and our husbands. We then
parted. *	*	Sister Woodruff is here on a
visit; she has little Wilford, three months old,
with her. Sends her love, and wishes you to
inform her husband that she and children are
tolerably well. The brethren have a bee to-day
to put up houses for the families of the Twelve
that have none."   *   *
In another letter I find an interesting item
concerning the Prophet Joseph's receiving a
visit from on the of the Nephites, who told him
he had been through England, Ireland and
that the work of the Lord would be short and
powerful in those places. He also told him
many things about this land (America), many
of which have been fulfilled.
Mother, fearing her letter might be miscar-
ried, refrained from telling all that she had
heard Joseph relate, but said: "Suffice it to say,
trouble is to begin at the election (which is the
first day of the coming February), and great
and wonderful things are to be brought about."


