SOME MORE FACTS.

	DEAR EDITOR:-- I have just been reading
an article in No, 16, Vol. 10, of the Exponent,
entitled "some Facts," by Emily Scott, and it
is so refreshing to hear from an honest heart
such as the lady manifests, that I cannot for-
bear writing a few of my sentiments, although
I do not propose to answer the lady in full.
Now, to be as honest as she has been, I woll
say to begin with, I am not in "polygamy,"
as the world term it, myself, but oew my exist-
ence to it, for I was born in the order of Celes-
tial Marriage. Do I feel ashamed of it? No;
let the whole world hear me say it, No! I
know that my mother is as pure a woman as 
lives, and my fater was an honorable virtuous
man, in fact, a true man of God, who would
have recoiled with horror from a sinful, licent-
tious act. Are they the only ones of this des-
cription who have entered that order? No;
they can be counted by thousands. I do not
claim, however, that there are no exceptions,
but the great majority who have accepted that
principle in their lives are pure in the sight of
God. It is now as it was in the days od Jesus;
in casting the Gospel Net into the sea of hu-
manity we gather of all kinds.
	Now, we will lay aside the fact that my hus-
band has no wife but myself and I would not
be considered a good judge, not having had
the actual experience; yet some of my most
intimate friends are living in that Sacred
order. Have I ever witnessed any quarreling
or unpleasantless in these families I speak of?
No, never; they live in perfect peace and love
one another with a sisterly love. Perhapes their
ideas conflict sometimes, and would this be
strange when we consider they may be, and
many times are, of different nationalities, and
have been reared with different ideas, tradi-
tions and prejudices? What families in mo-
nogamy do not sometimes disagree?  even those
who are counted perfect models; not only con-
sidered so, but really are. I have seen grown
brothers and sisters disagree, and even quarrel
perhaps not speaking pleasantly for some time;
but this was not thought much about. Had
the same thing occurred among wizes belong-
ing to the same husband, what a talk it would
have made; Polygamy being condemned as the
cause of such unpleasantness. Those not of 
our faith would have published it far and wise.
If sisters can forgive and forget little weak-
nesses that they see in each other, surely wives
in the same fmaily ought to do so, for in one 
sense of the word they are one. The same
ceremony that unites the first wife to her hus-
band also unites the second to him, or any
number he may take, each one being made one
with him.
I believe I speak the feelings of thousands
in saying the Mormon women are happy; in
fact, we are, I am sure, the happies people on
the face of the earth. We don not have to
suffer the moritication of having babies laid
on our doorsteps belonging to our husband and
some woman he has dishonored, his partner in
guilt; neither do we have occasion to suffer
any misgivings should our husbands remain
out at night a little longer than usual, for we
have perfect faith in their virtue. The record
made by the Latter-day Saint women proves
that they are not weak minded, but the very
opposite of this. The priesthood of God 
teaches them to obey their husbands in the
Lord, which means that men who are good and
pure have the right to govern their families in
righteousness, for "man is the head of the
woman," as the Holy Bible also teaches. But
if they should commit adultery, or debauch
themselves in any manner, then it remains with
the wife to say whether she will still be one
with him or not; for according to the law of
God she is free. He has, by his own conduct
severed the marriage tie.
For myself I can say, I do not know of any
young wives who worry about having children;
on the contrary, I know of some who would
give the world to have more, although they
already have a nice little family, which many
of our Gentile sisters would consider quite
large enough. Not so with us; we are taught 
that our children are our glory, and that they
are indeed an "heritage of the Lord." We
know the world hate and despise us, but our
Savior said, "Blessed are ye when men shall re-
vile you, and say all manner of evil against
you falsely for my sake," &c. in reading the 
different bills brought forward for remedying
evils in Utah, I am reminded of a song we
used to sing when I was a little girl, which ran 
as follows:
	"There's a great commotion in the East
	About the Mormon question;
	The problem is, to say the least,
	Too hard for their digestion."
which sentiment, I think, would be quite appro-
priate now.
I would like to add my testimony that this
problem of "Mormonism" will never be solved
by man, unaided by the Spirit of God, neither
will it be injured by any adverse legislation
that may be adopted for the purpose of break-
ing it to pieces. It is God's work, and they
who undertake its solution are measuring arms
with the Almighty, and they will find, sooner
or later, that there is a fearful odds agaainst
them. And this work will continue to roll,
until it fills the whole earth, and there will be
no other way found to purify society and ele-
vate women to a higher plane, except through
the much hated principle of Celestial Mar-
riage.
	Respectfully,
		Tiney.


TALK.

Isn’t it invigorating? Don’t you feel this
strong wind of opposition blowing in your
faces with refreshing zest? How the wind
does howl, to be sure! And around every sec-
tarian corner, what gusts and tempests sweep!
And isn’t it good to sit under the dome of
Truth and know that the door is bolted by the
arm of God, while this opposing clement sweeps
and surges without?
This moral showerbath clears off the atmos-
phere, so that I wash my dishes with fresh
spirit, and sweep up the floor with a dash.
The old meeting house bell rings out with a
vigorous call, “Come to church, come to church, 
the End is near, the End is near! Pray to
God, God will hear! !” 
And the papers, filled with Congress bills
and caucus meetings to crush out the work of
Christ, sends the blood to my heart with a
mighty force, the sparkle to my eyes and the
nerve to my arm, until I feel as President
Young did in ’57, when the memorable Peace
Commissioners’ meeting was broken up with
the news of the advancing army—Sisters, sing
Zion!
