ANSWER TO SOME FACTS.

SOME facts have been given of the state of
affairs in the States. Here are the facts that have
occured in Utah among the despised Latter-
day Saints. Here I am aquainted with many
noble women, who of their own free will have
given other wives unto their husbands, who are
a blessing to their families and to their associ-
ates. I have stood by the grave of a dear
friend, a first wife, and when the coffin was
lowered have seen the second wife clinging to
her husband weeping in bitterness of grief, for
the loss of the first wife, who had been such a
comfort and blessing to her and her children.
	I have known of childless first wives, imitat-
ing the example of the peerless Sarah, giving
other wives to their husbands, and furthermore
caring for the children as if they were their
own.
	I have been acquainted with second wives
who have willingly given their first born to
the childless, first wife, who has nourished and
raised it on her own.
	I have known of the first wives treating the
wives of their husbands as daughters affection-
ately and kindly, because they were younger
than therself; and again second wives honoring
and respecting the first wife in every possible
way.
	At the funeral of a second wife, I have seen
the first and third wives mourning the loss of
the one departed and knew that their hands
had helped to array the silent form in spotless
white, and placed within the marble fingers the
sweet, white flowers.
	In sickness one wife will minister to another
with the greatest solicitude and tenderness.
	Another, in a time of sickness of her husband
and second family has provided bread for
them to eat from her own resources, although
she had a large family, of her own, and had
always helped the second wife in raising her
family, because of her ill health.
	I was acquainted with a lovely woman, who
on her death bed, chose a wife for her husband
and when she found the parties were agreeable
to her wishes, felt satisfied, knowing in whose
hands she would leave her children.
	Another estimable woman while she lived
took care of the aged second wife, surrounding
her with every comfort in her helplessness, but,
although younger, passed a way first.
	These are some of the fruits of plural mar-
riage and are they evil?
	"By their fruits ye shall know them" whether
good or bad.
