THE SACRAMENT
		BY HANNAH T. KING.
	"The Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was be-
trayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he
brake it, and said, take, eat, this is my body which is
given for you, this do in remembrance of me. 1 Cor., xi
23 24.
	Betrayed! Oh! who may tell the agony
	That [xxx] upon the meek Redeemer's Soul
	As, in the hush o fhtat last solemn feast
	He looked upon His chosen Ones? Betrayed!--
	He found them wandring in a thirsty land,
	And he had led them unto living streams,
	And he had fed them with the bread of life--
	When crowds hung breathless on His miracles,
	Their post was at His side--in the still hour
	When He was wont to seek the quiet garden--
	Beneath the beauty of the starry sky,--
	Upon the mountain's top, on the wild waves
	That foamed around them in the midnight gloom
	They held communion with Him: Yet He felt
	E'en now, the traitor's kiss upon His cheek!
	The fierce denial sounded in His ear,
	He saw himself forsaken and alone,
	"Thou, even thou, mine own familiar friend"
	Oh! though more piercing than the cruel nail,
	Oh! anguish sharper than the wreathed thorn
	To Him, whose name is Lord whoever felt
	A sorrow like this sorrow?-- Mark ye well
	That pale, male brow so sadly raised to Heaven
	In uncomplaining woe, that tender form,
	Whose every nerve is quivering with intense
	Yet patient agony!--The Savior speaks!
	Peace while we bend in deep and anxious awe
	To catch the lightest murmur of His lips
	In this, His hour of suffering. Lo! He breaks
	And with a blessing gives the bread, as soon
	Aye! very soon His body shall be given
	For all! For us! then holding foth the cup
	Touching memorial of the precious blood
	That, ere another day hath run its course
	Shall stain Gethsemane, and Calvary.
	He says, "Do this in Memory of Me."--
	His gentle, mournful eye is fixed on us
	In pleading earnestness; His outstretch'd hand
	is kindly waiting for us; will we add
	One drop of sorrow to that bitter cup
	So full already? Will we wring the heart
	With yet another pang, that even now
	Is breaking with its load of misery?--
	We call ourselves His followers, we bear--
	His sacred name, shall we betray Him too?--
	No! gracious Master! erring tho' we be
	Unmeet, unworthy, not in vain to us
	Shall be thy las commandment, give that cup,
	That broken bread, we would remember Thee.
Salt Lake City, Xmas., 1881.


[Column 1]
