				BEAVER FEB. 14TH, 1882.

	DEAR EXPONENT.-The article by Emily
Scott was read by me with very deep interest,
but my daily duites are so are so pressing and I had
so much confidence that others of greater ability
would give the matter the attention which its
importance merits, that I excused myself from
replying to it, and looked forward to your next
issue with the expectation of great pleasure in
reading the able responses which I felt sure
would be made, But since all your best corre-
spondents seem to have been just of my mind, I
will even say a few words myself in behalf of
our much abused institution; though I hope the
lady realizes that in her short epistle, she has
asked questions enough that full and complete
replies would fill a volume; therefore I must
be content with only brief and partial answers,
at least for the present. The ocean is too vast
to be drained with my little tin cup.
	First, dear lady, bear in mind that we claim
a divine origin for our institution of plural mar-
riage; we consider it too vast and bold a scheme
for human good to have originated in the brain
of man. But, you object, it  is nothing new,
but a thing borrowed from ignorant, benighted
peoples.
	I hope to show you that our plan is as dif-
ferent from that of the Eastern Harems as day
is from night; and people who compare the two,
are not always anxious to do us justice.
	You have doubtless observed through life
that men and women are prone to see in others
the identical weakness or vice which is most
emphatic in themselves. For instance, the
man who is conscious of a lack of courage,
moral or physical, is ever ready to accuse others
of cowardice; seeming to think that thus he
will divert attention from his own weak point.
And the woman who habitually knows more
about her neighbors affairs than her own, is
not slow to call another a busybody when oc-
casion occurs.


Just so you will find it, on examination, with
those pious souls who "turn their eyes in horror
toward Utah," and who  talk so freely about
"pollution," "degradation" and "carnality,"
--not to mention more offensive terms--among
the Mormons.  I am not prepared to say there
are no exceptions to this rule, for of course
those remote from us, who have only report to
judge us by, are not to blame if their informa-
tion is not correct; but I know of no exception
among the "reformers" who come here profes-
sedly to teach us "civilization." Can you be-
lieve it? Some openly avow their preference
for open prostitution because--they say, "that
which a man buys and pays his money for is
honestly his." But they condemn as "filthy"
and all that, is vile an avowed marriage for time
and all eternity, responsible and proud fatherhood
and perfect chastity abroad. Any one who
reads the papers of the day, knows that sexual
depravity, in all its hideousness, is devouring
the men of this generation; besides thousands
of women, many of whom are of the purest and
most innocent of Eve's daughters. And it
would seem that no woman would dare to mar-
ry unless she were ignorant of the frightful
risks she incurs of allying herself to a monster
of personal uncleanness, and through him, to all
the "lost" women in her community.
	And when she finds herself thus victimized,
how bitterly might she reflect, that a man who
was already a kind and faithful husband, and
the father of blooming and happy children, in
these very facts gives pledges of his fitness to
become such to her. He is thus tested as she has
no possible means to test a single man. But
now you ask, "What of that wife and those
children he already has? Their feelings and
rights must be considered." Yes certainly.
The children are concerned in the question of
heritage; but under present conditions, es-
pecially among us, where a wife can have and
hold her own property during the lifetime of
the husband, instead of getting only an "incum-
brance" on one third of the joint stock after his
death, and owning not even her own apparel
while he lives, while, if there be no children,
the husband's relatives may claim two thirds--
here, I say, the matter of inheritance is less
affected, doubled by marriages than might be
the case elsewhere. And  the wife, if she is
steeped in tradition and has neither inspiration
nor information to open her mind to the cry-
ing need of the world, of purer homes, higher
motives in marriage, and better begotten, better
born children with which to people it, and if she
neither knows nor cares that in many cases mar-
riage as it is, is degradation without hope of res-
cue to many high minded, pure and noble wom-
en, she, of course will fret and waste her nervous
energy in jealous self-pity over the thought that
she gives all to her husband and receives in re-
turn only part of his attention, and regard.
And the more her inferior nature predominates
the more intense will be her self-torture, and
the more surely will she instil into the hearts
of her children her own shortsighted and self-
ish views, and thus render them turbulent and
disrespectful, first toward their father and other
members of the family, and afterwards without
fail they will become so toward herself and each
other; and thus she sets them as well as herself
outside the bounds of any blessings which might
accrue from the new plan of marriage, which
if rightly conducted, would be more like the
bond of union and strength among the sove-
reign states of our Republic than anything else
that I can compare it with.
	But suppose the wife to be well informed of
the condition of the world, its wickedness, its
woe, its cold-hearted and unabashed licentious-
ness on one hand and its consequent shame and
suffering on the other; though she never heard
of divine command on the subject, if she have
one spark of philanthropy in her soul, it must
seem that she would look upon her own chaste
God. Serving husband and wonder that any
save such as he should dare to wed a pure woman.
Then the baleful certainty that such as he are
few and far between, would suggest that his
love could safely shelter others besides herself;
and viewing the case in this light, women are
not few who would be largehearted enough to
willingly share their havens of refuge with
other good women, if only it could be done
without incurring a greater avalanche of scorn
and opprobium, than even that which follows
the unfortunates who have fallen into the
snares set for the feet of the unwary by the
friends whose delight is in their downfall.
	It is exemplified among us that some are
even brace enough to disregard that, but it
cannot be expected of all, at least not yet.
But oh, how are the might fallen, when she
who through love of God and humanity, freely
entered this ideal state, grows faint-hearted or
lets her lamp become extinguished, and begins
to repine, who after putting her hand to the
plow, finds that she has misjudged her strength
and turns back in the furrow. Self-distrust,
the cruelest of tortures, becomes her constant
companion, and she is unhappy and very apt to
make others so.
	Those who might enter this state heedlessly
or in ignorance of its vast significance must be
content to find "marriage a lottery;" though I
hope you will pardon me for thinking they in-
cur less risk of drawing a blank, than if the
marriage were monogamic, for I must consider
that the man who has the courage to contract
such a marriage in the face of the storm of rage
and menace which monogamy is now rolling up
against us, is something of a hero whatever
faults he may have.
	Mormon wives as a rule do not "worry about
bearing children."
	"Mormonism" in and of itself fosters a desire
to rear children, and the more devout the be-
liever, the more anxious to rear "a noble pos-
terity." It is the end and aim, the point and
focus, the heart and soul of Mormonism to im-
prove the human race; and this aim, however
falteringly pursued, at once dignifies and ex-
alts motherhood to such an extent as to set it
above and beyond all other pursuits and call-
ings, and you can easily see that in such a case,
womanhood cannot be degraded, nor matern-
ity become burdensome and undesireable except
indeed for physical and exceptional reasons.
	We cannot deny our weaknesses, our stumbl-
ings by the way, our failures in living up to
our high professions, but God himself cannot
do perfect work with imperfect materials, and
so we trust in Him, and do the best we can, hop-
ing our children, untrammelled by the tradi-
tions and inwrought prejudices which hamper
us, may accomplish more in one decade than
we in ten.
	I see that your swift thoughts have outrun
my slow words and arrived at my conclusion
ahead of me.
	Polygamy, as we view it, is not fit for the
giddy, the selfish and the wicked, but only for
the noble, the wise, the pure and the far-seeing.
It is a self-evident fact that the higher the em-
inence attained, the greater the disaster which
attends a fall, and in my humble opinion none
should enter upon this greatest of modern re-
forms without a large portion of that sublime
philanthropy and absence of selfishness, which
led Jesus to endure ignominy and torture to
bless a sinful world.
							Lu Dalton.


