			JUAB STAKE
   The Juab Stake organization of R. S. held
their Fifteenth Quarterly Conference Jan. 20,
at the Nephi Meeting House, commencing at 2
P. M., pursuant to adjournment, Mrs. Amelia
H. Goldsbrough presiding. Most of the Stake
and local officers were present, though some
were detained on account of sickness.
   After the usual opening exercises, the min-
utes of the last quarterly conference were read
and approved. Then followed verbal reports
by the presidents of the different branches,
which proved that the sisters were energetic in
the discharge of their duties, and were alive
to the interest of the great Latter-day work.
   Financial reports were read, which showed
the condition of the branches to be very good,
there being no lack of means to supply the
wants of the needy.
   We then had some excellent remarks from
Presidents A. H. Goldsbrough, M. Pitchforth,
S. Aagard, H. Grover, and Counselors J. Pic-
ton, M. Bryan and Sister Hendrickson. All
spoke spiritedly, and touched on many subjects
of interest. Some of them on the training of
children, the responsibility of parents and the
hurtful results arising from neglect of these
duties. Thought if we would be faithful we
had no cause to fear from our enemies. A
very few remarks from Brothers Brown and
Kendall. 
   It was then moved and carried that a report
of the Conference be forwarded to the EXPO-
NENT.  Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Hark the song of jubilee." Bene-
diction by Bishop Aagard.
				A. L. BIGLER, Cor. Sec'y
			PINE VALLEY.
   The sisters of Pine Valley Relief Society,
with three of the brethren R. L. Lloyd, John
Grey and James Bracken, (our Bishop being
absent from home, met Jan. 15, 1882, at 11
o'clock a. m., at the residence of Mrs. Dorinda
M. Slade, President of the Relief Society, to 
celebrate and surprise her on her seventy-fourth
birthday, Brother Bracken being sixty-six the
day previous, the 14th. Tables were set, and
seventeen sisters and the above named brethren,
twenty in all, sat down to a sumptuous repast,
all in excellent spirits. Brother Bracken re-
turned thanks. It was snowing very heavily.
Dinner over, the time was spent in conversing,
and the song, "Hard times come again no
more," was rendered.
   Meeting commenced at two p. m. Singing,
"Come, come, ye Saints."  Prayer by D. M.
Slade. Singing, "Up, awake, ye defenders of 
Zion." President Slade then gave the meeting
into the hands of the company assembled.
Sister Sophia M. Burgess then read a letter
composed by Ellen M. Jones, and inscribed to
Sister Slade, in behalf of the sisters of Pine
Valley Relief Society.
DORINDA M. SLADE, PREST. R. S.
   Dear Sister--We the sisters of Pine Valley
R. S., have met to-day, Jan. 15, to celebrate
the birthday of our beloved and much re-
spected President, Dorinda M. Slade, it being
her 74th birthday. And we feel to ask God,
our Heavenly Father, to bless, comfort and
cheer her lone way, that He may prolong her
days upon the earth, that she may  still be use-
ful in her day and generation, that she may
teach and instruct the sisters and the youth in
those things they may have a desire to learn;
and that He will bless us while we enjoy our-
selves this day.  We will pray God, our Heav-
enly Father, to remember, in an especial man-
ner, "thine Israel" under all circumstances,
throughout the length and breadth of the
whole earth. Bless thy servant John Taylor,
his Counselors and the Quorum of the Twelve,
with wisdom, light and intelligence, that they
may preside and lead "thy people" in the ways
of truth and righteousness.  Remember our
Delegate to Congress, and all that pertaineth
unto him; shield and protect him from the
power of his enemies; let thine influence and
power be round about him, as a wall of fire,
that they may have no power or dominion over
him; may he ride triumphant over them. Re-
member the honest in heart, this day in all the
earth, and all who have a desire to do thy will
and keep thy commandments. We, the sisters
of Pine valley, have a desire to live according
to thy mind and will and to join heart and
hand with Sister Slade in assisting to promote
the interest, happiness and welfare of the poor
and needy of our ward, to comfort and cheer
the tempted and tried, the broken-hearted, and
all that need assistance. We will ever be on
hand as a band of sisters to magnify our call-
ing and perpetuate the R. S. and the work of 
God to the ends of the earth. And may God
bless our President her Counselors and the 
members, and may Sister Slade live to be an
honored instrument in the hands of God in
doing good all the day long, is the wish and
fervent prayer of her sister in the Gospel,
