THE TERRIBLE MORMONS.

"Who hath believed out report? And to whom hath
the arm of the Lord been revealed?

Ah! wherefore these sounds from afar?
This tempest of wrath in our ears?
The hisses of hate, and the fury of War-
Such whisp'ring of horrible fears?
From abroad, and at home on the winds sweeping by-
Is wafted the woful, and wearisome cry.

Ah! wherefore the Nations distress?
What calamity crosses their path?
Are legions their foes-even giants-no less-
Mighty men, than Goliath of Gath?
What danger impending creates such dismay-
That the civilized world are in battle array?

In the Vales of the mountainous West-
A sprinkling of people reside-
A handful at most-who believingly boast-
That the Lord is their friend and their guide.
"Gainst these "Terrible Mormons" are vengefully hurl'd
The malice of millions, the wrath of a world.

And why do the multitude sit
On a few, in such judgement and ire?
More crimes than the masses, do Mormons commit-
Provoking a tumult so dire?
"Away with such people" tis bigotry's cry;
Twas thus the Jews clamor'd, that Jesus should die.

A Seer, in the centuries past-
Had a vision, 'twas vivid and grand;
Its substance was this, that Jehovah at last
Would set up His rule in the land.
In the midst of the mountains, a people forsooth-
Should life up an Ensign, the bammer of Truth!

Did Daniel the dreamer, the Jew-
Ever see what a state, what a time,
Of trouble there'd be should his vision come true?
 No matter what age or what clime
Should God found a Kingdom, did Daniel foretell,
"Twould be so vexatious to earth and to hell?

Yea, the prophets foretold that the world
Would speak "gainst the Holy and High,"
Would war with His Saints, and encompass their camps
And in conflict, Jehovah defy-
That dominion and triumph at length should be given
To the Saints, who shall serve in the battle of heaven."

At present, "The Stone" is so small
That's destined to roll and to grow.
Why the Nations are troubled at all-
Is more than the half of them know;
Oh is't the conviction, the positive dread
That Truth so Eternal, must prosper and spread?

The "Terrible Mormons will keep-
On the track that they've started to go,
They labor to live, yea they plant and they reep-
Untroubled, for surely they know-
That He whose commandments they dare to obey
Doth care for His Kingdom, by night, and by day.
					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City.


