HOSTILE MEASURES. 

	The bills now pending in the Congress of the
United Stales, asking for adverse legislation and
proposing hostile measures for Utah, are of such
a nature as to strike with amazement those who
know the purity of life and principle that charac-
terize the true Latter-day Saint. Not only so, but
every person possessing the true spirit of patriot-
ism must see how directly opposed these hostile
measures are to the Constitution of the United
States. Are there none in the halls of Congress,-
no men who dare, speak out in defense of the
oppressed, their fellow-creatures and fellow-


countrymen? Is it possible that men and women
are to be condemned to suffer as criminals with-
out trial, or the opportunity of defending them-
selves against assertions made and confirmed by
their enemies? Is not this a direct contradiction
of the laws laid down to govern this free Re-
public; where even criminals guilty of the high-
est offence must be judged before they can be
condemned? Are the women of Utah not to be
allowed to say a word in their own defense, while
those opposed to the principles they have es-
poused can be heard through every newspaper
in the land, and their cause proclaimed from
every pulpit?
	Would it not be well for the nation to pause,
ere any irrevocable step is taken, that would
strike at the peace and happiness and individual
liberty of the people of Utah, and examine well
and closely into the condition of the Territory?
Would it not be wiser to hear both sides of this
case, before decisive steps are taken to punish?
We have always understood every person in the 
Republic was entitled to a fair hearing, before
any verdict could be given.
	At the present time the Territory of Utah is
in a prosperous condition, full of peaceful, happy
homes. Shall these homes be made desolate,
these wives widows, by a fate more cruel than
death, innocent children be denied the father's
love and protecting care, and the tender ties of
family affection be dissolved and destroyed, to
gratify the demands of office seekers and reli-
gious perscutors? Let not the wails of women
and children be heard where now joy sits smil-
ing at the threshold, and the angel of peace at
the hearthstone. What balm has Congress to
offer for  broken hearts and desolated homes?
	This people so greatly misunderstood and
basely misrepresented, have already suffered
cruel wrongs and injustice in years that are past,
have been driven from State to State, despoiled
of their goods, robbed of their homes and inher-
itances, and thousands have died in consequence
of the hardships and sufferings inflicted upon
them because of their religious belief and insti-
tutions. Will not the past suffice? Is this spirit
of religious intolerance in accordance with the
sayings of the Savior, who declared that not a
sparrow could fall to the ground without His
Father's notice?
	This people at the present time are threatened
on every hand. Measures have been suggested
to take away from them every right and liberty
vouchsafed by the Constitution, and these mea-
sures enforced would scarce leave them the right
of conscience. But remember, great and mighty
law-makers and rulers of the nation, that "What
measure ye mete it shall be measured to you
again, pressed down and running over."
	It has been said, and we had firmly believed
that America was the home of the oppressed of
all nations, the land of religious liberty. How
is it to day? Oh, "how have the mighty fallen!"


