NOTES AND NEWS.
	A GERMAN lady, Elsie Von Koeber, proposes
an organization of Women for the purpose of
promoting and encouraging female emigration
from Europe.
	MARY L. Haggart asks: "If men are so cor-
rupt that they cannot be permitted to vote with
women, ougt they to be trusted to vote for
and represent women?"
	GOVERNOR Cornell, of New York, says that
"the voting of women at the school elections in
New York has increased the proficiency of the
school and added to their intelligence."
	THE late Mrs. Eliza F. Eddy, of Boston,
Mass., left property valued at about $50,000
to be divided equally between Lucy Stone and
Susan B. Anthony for use in the woman suff-
rage work.
	QUEEN VICTORIA'S speech at the opening
of Parliament  of general interest: "My lords
and gentlemen, it is with much satisfaction that
I again invite your advice and assistance in the
conduct of public affairs. I have given my
approval to a marraige between Price Leop-
old and the Princess Selina of Waldeck. I
have every reason to believe this will be a hap-
py union --Ex

	THE birthday of Susan B. Anthony was cel-
ebrated in Indianapolis Ind.	Feb. 15, at the
residence of Dr. and Mrs. Carey. The papers
speak of it as a charming affair. Many people
of note editors and writers assembled to honor
the labors of this pioneer worker in the cause
of woman suffrage and to give expression to the
feelings of love respect and admiration they
entertain for this able advocate this heroic
champion of equal rights. Miss Anthony has
been before the public thirty-four years, teach-
ing moral responsibilty and citizenship for
women as well as men.
	OSCAR WILDE the apostle of Enlish aes-
theticisin now visiting Boston, is a son of Lady
Wilde, a poetical contributor thirty years ago
to the Dublin Nation. He stands siz feel one
in his stockings, --and irreverent exchange re-
marks that he is a good deal taller than his
poetry. At his lecture in Music Hall the other
evening he wore clothes like a man, and the
sixty Harvard student occupying front seats
in bicycle stockings and bearing sunflowers,
"who came to scoff remained to" --get rather
the worst of it; for Oscar, having had wind of
their intentions, in a little prelude turned the
laugh on them. --EX.


