IN MEMORIAM
	Died at the residance of her son-in-law F. J. Vin-
cent, Panacca Nevada, Rosina: widow of the late
James Tregeagle of New Zealand. Deceased was
in her 50th year, was a native of England where
she embraced the Gospel many years ago.  Mrs
Tregeagle was a great sufferer for years previous
to her death, being afflited with an incurable
cancer or tumor. She was gentle, refined and
patient, a true Latter Day Saint and one who had
made great sacrifices for the sake of her religion.
She died in the hope of a glorious resurrection.

	Marion Khrstinia Jenson Welbye born April
the 9th 1827 in Grimstrap, Maribo [-]olland, Den-
mark died Febuary the 14th in 1883 of disease of
the howels.  She was baptised in 1863 and came
to Utah in 69, the next year.
	She has been a faithful Teacher in the Relief
Society of Manti for many years always on hand
to perform every duty for the interest of the So-
ciety and the Kingdom of God, and through
great affliction she has gone to her reward.
"Peace to her ashes."    REBECCA WAREHAM

	Died in Tooele city Jan. 21st 1882 of general
debility Mailda Bates, daughter of James and
Vina Reeves and wife of the late Ormus E.
Bates; decased was born Rochester, New York
April 11th 1827, was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day saints in the year
1813 emagrated to Utah 1851 and lived in Tooele
county until her death; she was an exemplary
and faithful adherant to all the principles of the
Everlasting Gospel and died full in the faith.
She leaves one son and three daughters and a
large circle of relatives and friends to mourn her
departure;  she was also a Teacher to the Relief 
Society which position she honorably filled till
her death.  She was followed to the Meeting
House by her Relatives and the Officers and
members of the Relief Society, where comforting
and consoling remarks were made by Patriarch
John Rowbery, and Pres. Gowans when the large
cortege followed her to the cemetery and her re-
mains were consigned to her last resting place
to await the resurrection of the just.
				ANN TATE, Cor, Sec y.,

	Sister Rhode H. Foss Richards, daughter of
Calvin Foss and Sarah B. Carter, was born April
19, 1830, in the town of Saco in the State of Maine,
was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints by Prest. Wilford Woodruff
in the Autumn of 1844, and gathered with her
mother brother and sisters to Salt Lake City in
the year 1850.  On the 30 of November 1851 she
was married to the late President Willard Rich-
ards and by him became the mother of Calvin
W. Richards who married Emma I. Walker a
grand-daughter of Patriarch Hyrum Smith and
is a resrected citizen residing at Farmington in
Davis County.
 On March 6th 1857 she became the wife of
Apostle F. D. Richards; located with other mem-
bers of her family in Farmington; and there has
borne three sons and a daughter. Hyrum and
Ita have departed Ezra and sarah remain to
mourn her loss.
 Sister Rhode Richards won the love and es-
teem of those who knew her by her dutiful and
consistent life as a Latter.day Saint.
	She accepted and obeyed every doctrine and
ordinace of the Church that was required of
her and lived in dutiful conformity therewith.
She taught her children the principles of the
Gospel and had the great satisfaction to see them
walk in the ways of the Lord while they lived,
and those who sleep to depart in the faith.
 The illness which terminated her earthly
career at 10 o'clock a.m. Nov. 19, 1882 was of a
protractrd and serious character which has con-
fined her to her room and bed for more than two
years and a half during all which she manifested
the faith and patience which are the fruit of an
abiding hope.
	When but a few days before her death her hus-
band enquired how she felt about his going with
others of the Apostles and Presidency on a short
mission to the Southern part of the Territory?
She replied go Franklin and do your duty, all
will be well with me.
 She has ever been an obedient duitful child, a
faithful and affectionate wife, a loving and in-
dulgent mother and an exemplary confiding
Latter-day Saint. May her rest be glorious un-
til the resurrection of the just, when they shall
come again to earth and bring their glory with
them. -Com.
 At the time of Sister Rhoda Richards death
Elder F. D. Richards was away upon a mission-
ary tour in the southern part of the Territory
and where the telegraph could not reach him.
His wife Rhoda had been so long ill, that there
seemed no immediate danger when he left
--otherwise he would certainly have remained at
home but he was absent dong his Master's work
and she knew it and was satisfied to have it so.


[Column 1]
