SELF GOVERNMENT

Self-government is the power of controlloing
the mind; a person exercising it must accord-
ing to phrenology, possess a great amount of
intellectuality. The mind of man, like a gar-
den, must be cultured and pruned; the soil is
never so rich but stray weeds peep forth occa-
sionally, and gaining strong hold, choke a ten-
der flower by which they chance may spring.
Self-government is the basis to all success; it is
gained by unswerving confidence in one's self
avoiding trepidation by keeping constant vigi
over--every thought, word and act; thus pre-
venting extremes, and preserving an "even
tenor of preceedure, in all transactions, men-
tal or physical. To know thyself is to be a
king - a God of the frail, mortal bark you
possess, which, if not carefully piloted, is tossed
from wave to wave on the sea of life, like a
vessel void of a helmsman. A man possessed
of self-government is referred to by his imme-
diate acquaintances as the embodiment of man-
liness; his every act so accords with what God
destined man should be, that he is pronounced
and acknowledged as a person of firm, resolute
determination. A forcible character, accom-
panied by gentleness, hospitality and sound
reasoning faculties, is the result of a constant
toning of the passions. How loved is one thus
endowed! His society is ever courted by those
of a genial spirit, and envied by those lacking
this fortitude of mind, whose immoral views
are based on circumstances, and whose minds
revolt at the idea of penetrating the recesses of.
a noble virtuous man's character.
Firmly anchored by self-government, the
tensions, of the brain is tested without injury;
impressions are chronicled and retained, until
the mind is an overflowing storehouse from
which the capacities draw, as they require;
universal knowledge becomes visible, and the
face its index, beams as a star when lit up
with the pure spirit of an honorable self-
willed man. His ideas, carefully adjusted and
clothed rise before us like crystal streams of
living waters issuing from a fountain, whose
particles set free, separate and revive the droop-
ing twig near by, imparting to it a refreshing
glow, and receiving for recompense the parched
leaflet's apparent recovery.
From a moral standpoint, the majority of
mankind have unconsciously drifted far from
the path of decorum; hence, to assert supremacy
over this common current, one must, as it were,
stand a  ne, and bear unfeeling, keen animad-
ver i  ms, hurled from a heartless commuuity;
with the one comforting thought that the, mas-
t r of himself, can withstand the tempter's
fiendish wiles, and will eventually be compli-
mented by those very ones who at first ridi-
culed his integrity of manhood.
While the two widely differing personages
are before us, let us scan their countenances;
one bear the likeness of his Maker; intelli-
gence, nobleness, and valor blend and send
forth an assurety of their presence by that
bold, frank, noble look. The other - what a
contrast! How wide the chasm! Wrecked
manhood and vice have left their traces; the
furrowed brow and tainted air tell their own
story; the sullen eyes shrink from the steady
gaze of the former, and too late he finds him-
self a slave. No one can depend on him; his
word is naught; he is liable to change with the
first ebbing tide; like driftwood, he is floating
down the stream of life, to lodge against the
first obstacle; while the self-possessed man
moves in society that his deportment com-
mands. He is honored and sought for counsel,
is a nucleus round which many rally for sup-
port; thus, endowed with capabilities, he be-
comes a ruler. What a marked affinity be-
tween such a character and out God, who evi-
dently, first learned to govern Himself, ere He
entrusted in His care, our earth. Reflect, O
ye Christians! how great will be your joy
when you appear at the immortal bar for judg-
ment, if those life-giving words greet your ears,
"Well done, thou good and faithful servant."
This we can only meet by having had con-
stantly for our motto, "Know thyself." In
conformity to the example portrayed by our
Father in Heaven, and as architects of our
own characters, it becomes incumbent, as obe-
dient children, to lay as the foundation stone -
Self-government.
					JENNIE HARRIS.
	B.Y. Academy, Provo, Feb. 12, 1882.


