	    	  CONCLUDED.

  Having two or three hours on our hands be-
fore the evening lecture, we (Sister Young,
Dr. F. and myself,) went up to the Fifth Ave-
nue Hotel, where on a luxurious sofa we pleas-
antly spent the hours of intermission inter-
changing thought by reviewing the proceedings
of the day.
  The evening hour drawing near, we went
early, that we might see Miss Anthony and re-
ceive a book purchased after the morning ses-
sion.  We had a few moments of very inter-
esting conversation with her upon several
points, especially upon Utah representation on
the Suffrage question, the history of which she
was anxious to secure to insert in the coming
volume of suffrage history.  Her prompt re-
quest of us to name some one to whom she
could apply for the Anti-Mormon account was
so markedly in contrast to the interest usually
manifested in hearing the Mormon side, that I
could not refrain from drawing her attention
to the fact right there, by saying: "Were you
always so eager to hear our side on all matters
of dispute concerning us as you are the anti-
side, we would suffer a great deal less from
misrepresentation than we now do.  The direct,
telling truth and the appropriateness of the re-
mark were appreciated by her and for a moment
she seemed a little nonplussed, but soon rallied
and made some remark concerning how carefully
they had to guard the cause by shunning even
 the appearance of evil; which seemed to be
the interpretation of allowing Mromon women
to be represented on the platform, especially
now in the present feverish state of society.
She also very truthfully said, that at Washing-
ton it was very different, and we could be rep-
resented there, and that though she had not a
shadow of a belief in the principle of Plural
Marriage, she had no schism on the suffrage
question.  For our part we felt there is suffi-
cient truth in our cause to preserve it and let
it bide its time, without asking for opportunity
to tell our story,
   The evening session was occupied by Mrs.
Gougar, of Lafayette, Indiana, Phebe Hanni-
ford, and appropriately wound up by one of
the finishing touches of the convention, a
speech by Miss Susan B. Anthony.
   Mrs. Gougar is editor of Our Herald, the
principal exponent of suffrage now that Mrs.
Gage has relinquished her paper.  Mrs. Gon-
gar is a most pleasing appearing woman, and a
very graceful speaker.  Her speech was par-
ticularly characterized by good, practical, com-
mon sense and convincing argument, and pos-
sessed the one simple, strong point of truth.
   The next speaker was Mrs. Phebe Hanni-
ford, a minister.  Her sweet, placid face, and
the soft, liquid fire of her great, dark eyes,
attested the earnestness with which she engages
in any conflict for truth's sake.  Her speech
was impressive, but brief, and its crowning dif-
ferentiating feature from all the other speeches
was that she asked for the fruition of  her
hopes and desires for the cause, through the
name of the Lord Jesus.  Why did not all
do so?
   Miss Susan B. Anthony now took the plat-
form, as a fitting apostle to close the conven-
tion.  Now everybody who is not as mean and
green with prejudice and jealousy, as a tomato
worm, cannot help admiring and liking Miss
Anthony.  If she is terse and decided, and hits
the nail a peeling clip square on the top of the
head, is not that the way to do, when we are
in dead earnest to accomplish anything?  The
sacred Book says there is a time for everything,
and there are certainly many times in one's
life when it is a time of not mincing matters.

[Column 2]
She is thoroughly convinced that it is next to
impossible to get the masses of people to do
something of which they know nothing--that
is, voting for the franchise of woman.  Though
thus morally convinced of the little to be ac-
complished by lecturing to the masses, she
heroically intends to keep on trying.  We
were forced to leave during her lecture, but I
can assure you nothing short of the vivid pic-
ture of having to walk all the way to the ferry,
and swimming East River, a mile wide, and
walking two miles with our dresses fringed
with icicles, could have raised us from our
seats to leave her most interesting lecture.
   If I understood Miss Anthony aright, she
carried the idea that we had never made but
one regular effort at representation, and that
was when yourself and Mrs. Zina Young Wil-
liams went to Washington.  The truth is, that
the characteristic appreciation of the daugh-
ters of Zion of the true key stone of power
and strength, in the foundation of any commu-
nity or nation, is well expressed in the proverb
of "Charity begins at home," and they have
been so husily engaged in cleaning up the
House of Zion by teaching, encouraging and
endeavoring to direct in the best channels the
thoughts and lives of their sisters, that seem-
ingly the fact has not been considered that
there might be safety in having a few sentinels
stationed on the towers afar off.   I presume it
is true of woman's cause as of any other, that
to have its proper standing requires well-
directed representation.
   One little experience of Sister Zina D. H.
Young shows the actual power of the saying,
"Seeing is believing."  As she was standing
waiting to sign the memorial to send  the Leg-
islature, asking for the franchise of the women
of New York State, a lady close by her thus
addressed her: "I believe you are Mrs. Young."
Sister Young said, "I am."  And thereupon
the lady withdrew herself a pace, and, while
Aunt Zina stood there in her sealskin sacque
and velvet robe, but above all with the light
of truth beaming forth from every feature of
her face, she took a scrutinizing survey of her
from top to toe, and said, in accents of supreme
surprise, "Why, you do not look very degrad-
ed!"  The woman seemed totally oblivious to
the burning insult her every word, act and
look implied, but seemed wholly swallowed up
with her discovery.  And I dare say dear,
good Aunt Zina bore this with a smile; but it
has been proven, as Fanny Fern says, that you
can smile when you are the maddest.  But it
is to be sincerely hoped that such insults shall
not be so frequent as to induce in any one a
"chronic smile," a la Colfax.
   My attendance at the convention was quite
a digression on my part from my daily attend-
ance at the Eye and Ear Infirmary.  Rain,
snow, storm or sleet are mere feathers before
my all-devouring interest in this field of study.
When it is considered that the whole life of
many eminent men has been spent in the study
of the eye, and yet leaving many points open
for investigation, some idea can be formed of
the vastness of the field of inquiry afforded by
so small an organ. I feel to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in the inspiration which
prompted my visit East this winter, for I
seemed to be ripe for the harvest; for I know
that I have gained a more comprehensive grasp
of the vast subject, and dipped deeper into the
minutiae of it, during these three months, than
I possibly could have done in years alone.  I
only regret that I cannot stay longer, but the
home notes sound loud in my heart, and I must
return at latest by the middle of May.  I
have given the ear of throat also close atten-
tion, for our climate or country would seem to
be predisposing to all these diseases, judging
from the number afflicted.
   I will not indulge in any platitudes of how
I long to be at home with you again, for just
as true as twice one in two, any true Latter-
day Saint woman, when she turns her back
upon Zion, has to possess more will force than
the wife of Lot had to keep her from looking
back all the time.  I pray for you all, but my
deepest and strongest prayer at present is for
myself; and I hope my friends securely at
home will also remember me in theirs, that I
may again soon be safe at home in Zion, for I
fully realize the strength of Zion is sufficient
for the day, and if all men fail, the One at the
helm will not.
		Affectionately yours,
				ROMANIA B. PRATT.
   292 Carlton Ave., Brooklyn, Feb., 4, 1882.


