MOUND FORT.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—On the 1st inst., a
meeting was held in the Mound Fort School
House for the purpose of reorganizing the Relief
Society of the Ward, and organizing a Primary
Association. It was well attended by the sis-
ters, and children of the Ward. There were
present on the occasion, Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards, President of Weber Stake Relief Societies,
and Sister Harriet Brown, her first Counselor.
Sister E. Y. Stanford, Counselor to the Presi-
dent of the Stake Primary Associations, Bishop

[Column 3]
David Moore, and others. After the usual
opening exercises, the meeting was adressed
by Sisters Richards and Brown, and Brother
Moore and Stowell. Their remarks were re-
plete with wisdom, were chiefly directed to the
young, on the importance of Primary Assocoa-
tions and the duties to be performed by them
when they were organized.
	A Primary Association was orgonized, with
the following officers: Ann Mary Taylor,
President; Sarah Barker, and Silva Stone
Counselors; Eveline Barker, Secretary; George
Taylor, Assistant sec'y. Eltrida Barker, Treas-
urer. Forty-nine members were enrolled.
After some excellent remarks by Sister Stanford
to the officers and members, in regard to their
duties, the Primary Association was dismissed,
and the Relief Society continued in session.
	On account of the failing health, Sister Moore,
President of the Society, felt that in her feeble
condition she could no longer attend to the
duties of her office, and therefore tendered her
resignation, Having at all times found in her
a wise counselor, a nature noble and self-sacri-
ficing for others, good and noble and willing
worker in the duties of the Society, her resigna-
ton was reluctantly accepted. The Society
was then re-organized as follows: Annie Tay-
lor, President; Dina Rollins First Counselor;
Diana Moore Second Counselor; Annie D.
Taylor Secretary; Marion Hatch,Assistant Sec.
Mary C. Barker Treasurer. Remarks were
then made by Sister Richards and Sister Moore,
complimentary to the Society for the good they
had done in the past, and exhorting them to
faithfulness in the future, and the meeting
was dismissed by singing and prayer.
			ANNIE D. TAYLOR, Secretary.


