[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 512 | General Feature | Meatless Casseroles— Part I Edythe | K. Watson]
Meatless Casseroles MARGARET'S RICE RING 3 c. Cooked rice, 1 c. Uncooked 4 c. Chopped green pepper rice 1 tbsp. Chopped onion 3 eggs slightly beaten 1 c. Grated cheese (nippy preferred) 1% c. Milk 2 to 3 tbsp. Chopped parsley 1 tsp. Salt 4 tbsp. Melted butter dash of pepper Mix the ingredients together in order listed. Pour into a greased 2-quart mold. Bake in pan of hot water in moderate oven for one hour. Fill ring with creamed peas and carrots or celery or any other combination you may desire. Serves 6 to 8. MILDRED'S MEATLESS LASAGNA 1% . Chopped onion 2 tsp. Salt 1 clove garlic, minced 1 tsp. Basil (optional) 2 5-0z. Pkg. Noodles 2'' wide 3 tbsp. Cooking oil _ Ym Ib. Cheese sliced #2 can tomatoes 1 c. Sour cream 1 tbsp. Chopped parsley , c. Grated Parmesan cheese. 1 tbsp. Sugar 1 8 oz. Can tomato sauce Brown onion and garlic in hot oil. Add tomatoes, parsley, sugar, and seasonings; simmer one hour. Meanwhile cook noodles according to directions on package. Alternate noodles, sliced cheese, sour cream, Sauce, and grated cheese in 9'-pan. Bake 30 minutes in 350 degree oven. Cut in squares. Serves 8. CATHERINE'S CARROT CASSEROLE 22 c. Grated carrots 1 tbsp. Grated onion 3 eggs, beaten 1% tsp. Salt 11% tbsp. Butter melted 1% c. Grated cheese. 2 c. Cooked rice Cook the carrots in % cup boiling water for 5 minutes. Drain and save juice. Combine carrots with eggs, butter, rice, salt, onion, and cheese. Mix well and pour into greased baking dish. Bake in pan of hot water in moderate oven for 30 minutes. Sauce for Casserole: Measure carrot juice and add enough canned milk to make 2 cups. Melt 4 tbsp. Butter and stir in 4 tbsp. Flour. Stir in carrot and milk mixture. Cook until mixture thickens. Add 1 pkg. Frozen peas and cook until peas are tender. Serve over baked casserole mixture. Serves 6 to 8. PHYLLIS' CREAMED NOODLE RING 1 8-ounce pkg. Narrow noodles 2 tbsp. Grated onion 22 c. Medium white sauce Y% tsp. Dry mustard y Ib. Cheese, grated 3 eggs, slightly beaten. Cook noodles in boiling salted water, rinse, and drain. Alternate layers of noodles and cheese, in greased 9-inch ring (2 qt. Ring mold). Pour remaining ingredients over noodles. Bake in pan of hot water in moderate oven for 30 to 40 minutes. Turn out on large platter and fill center with creamed vegetables. Serves 6 to 8. (To be continued) 513 ..