[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 522 | General Feature | The Catch-AII Drawer | Louise Wynn]
The Catch-All Drawer Louise Wynn One of the first things I remember about our old house is the catch-all drawer. It was unlike the other drawers in the kitchen. It didn't hold just silverware or just dish towels and pot holders. It held tinkertoys, pick-up sticks, marbles, jar lids, can openers, nails, screws, thumbtacks, paper clips, a monkey wrench, a hammer, a screwdriver, and anything and everything else for which we didn't have a special place. The catch-all drawer was a treasure box for a small child. We could find anything we wanted in it, and it always contained a few things we couldn't even identify. We never had to go all the way out to the garage to find the right nail for hanging up the picture we had just made in Primary. Mother could find the baby's lost diaper pin there. If we ran out of houses and hotels for the Monopoly game, we could be sure to find enough in the catch-all drawer. If we couldn't think of any games to play, Mother would get an empty spool, a piece of soap, and a rubber band from the drawer, along with a knife and toothpick to make a little wind-up machine that would roll wherever we pushed it. When we moved into our new house I was about eight years old. I was helping Mother arrange things in the kichen, and I noticed that one drawer was still empty. I said, "Oh, good, this one will be the catch-all drawer.'"' Mother's quick answer was that we weren't going to have a catch-all drawer any more. ''We're in a new house now, and we're going to do things differently. All those things we used to put in the catch-all drawer are going to be put where they belong." We children found out soon that Mother had similar plans for all areas of our new life. We would no longer throw our schoolbooks and coats on the living room couch when we got home from school. No more dirty hand marks on sinks and towels. No more unmade beds in the morning, no more mud tracks in the house in the winter, and so on. She really did try to change us, but somehow we knew that none of us would change permanently just because of our new house. We were all the same no matter where we lived, and as the strange new house became our familiar home, even Mother would forget to enforce her new rules. The drawer I had chosen to be the catch-all drawer became just that in a few months it had become a habit and a necessity for us as had many other things. As we children grew up, we learned gradually to care for the household articles and we remembered to make our beds and do the dishes without being told, but we never stopped using the catch-all drawer. Now I see in my own married life patterns developing and habits forming just as in my childhood family, and my explanation of this is simple. The catch-all drawer in the new house is my reminder that my future life depends on what I do now as much as what I am now is the result of my actions in the past. _ ooo WONDERING Mother, when you were a girl, When you were just my age, Was 'lectricity invented? Were bustles all the rage? Mother, when you were a girl You had no T. V. Set! Tell me, then, did you and Daddy Dance the minuet?