[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 516 | Fiction | Mama Was a Heroine! | Maryhale Woolsey]
[Mama Was a Heroine! Maryhale Woolsey]

Maryhale Woolsey @ That rain! Nobody in Willow Creek Valley would ever forget it. It was the talk for years to come; the old-timers declaring they had never seen its like in all their days; and the youngtimers declaring they hoped never to see its like in all theirs, again. It began the second evening after Papa started out for Huntington, our nearest railroad station, with a double-bed wagonload of honey to ship East. We had watched him drive away into the very early morning with the sun not up yet and the air crisp, and the team acting even more skittish than usual. "They'll quiet down after they've pulled this load a little while," Papa had said. "I? Ll have to rest them quite a lot. I hope you put up plenty of eats, Lib. 'll want to munch something every time I stop, most likely. 516 PA ples oe 're IP et 1: to do you a week, Jack," Mama said. For days and days Mama had been writing her list of things she hoped he could buy at the town stores. Things she couldn't often get at our country store, which was our post office, too. "Don't worry," she told Papa. "You may think I'm asking you to buy the town out, when you start buying things." Papa said, "Maybe I ought to give it a once-over right now...." He patted his shirt pocket where Mama had carefully pinned the folded-up shopping list. "No, I'll manage. I'll probably just hand the list over to that nice clerk in the Biggs Department Store, and let her get the stuff ready for me. Especially the woman stuff." Then Papa laughed, and Mama laughed, and Bill and Freddie and I laughed, too, because when both Mama and Papa laughed, nobody else could help laughing along with them. This talk had been over the breakfast table. Mama had fixed breakfast while Papa was out doing early chores and hitching up the horses. It has been exciting to get up in the night and do breakfastgetting and eating by lamplight, and to watch Papa climb up to his high wagon seat and sit a moment or two with the reins held tight, just looking around at us all. "You kids be good, now. See you mind Mama all the time." The wagon made queer little groans as the horses started up, and in another minute they were all turning down the lane. Passing the smaller gate in front of our house, Papa looked back and waved to us. We hurried to the porch, from where we could watch Papa cross the creek bridge and turn the corner a little farther on. He would be out -of sight then. Now we would go back to bed awhile, to make up our lost sleep. But I lingered a little longer, making believe I could' see through the hill and think about Papa's long day and wonder. To me it seemed wonderful to think of city people far away a thousand miles, maybe more spreading biscuits or toast or even hotcakes with the luscious golden honey Papa's bees had gathered from alfalfa and clover fields through the long, hot summer days. And to remember Papa's saying to Mama how it meant a lot to us to get this load of early "prime" onto the eastern markets. He had practically smacked his lips as he said it as if he himself might have been a city man getting a first taste of that sweet, golden, brand-new crop honey! Mama Was a Hero-ine! The rainstorm blew in Tuesday night. The wind's noise awakened us, and the first thing we heard next morning was the patter of rain on our roof. That first day the rain was welcome. It had been many weeks since we had had any. We made rain hats out of folded newspapers, like the soldier hats we made in winter, to march around tables when we couldn't go outside. In the rain, now, we paraded up and down the walk from porch to gate, over and over, and even went out into the roadway where soft dust was becoming soft mud. When Mama called us in, we played games while she carefully unfolded our rainhats and spread the big sheets of paper over chairbacks to dry. The second day of rain was less gay, and we were already tired of staying inside. But when, by late afternoon, the rain was still pouring and the sky's dark grayness not a bit lightened, Mama pinned oilcloth capes around Bill and me and told us to put our rubbers on and come out back and help her carry in more wood frem the big pile Papa had been chopping and piling to last us while he was away. After supper Mama read to us and tucked us all in, smiling and hugging us each in turn, but I didn't go to sleep for what seemed a long time. I saw Mama standing by the front windows, as if hoping Papa would come driving up the lane, when we all knew that Papa wouldn't be coming before Friday night, and it wouldn't even be Friday morning until tomorrow! That night the rain poured fastest and loudest yet, and, 

517 July 1970

 when we got up next morning, our front and back yards were ponds of water. Freddie saw the ponds first, and as if he didn't believe what he saw from the window, he ran and opened the front door. "Oooh, lookie, lookie!" he exclaimed. "It's a lake out there! Well... Almost a lake." Bill and I scrambled over for a look. The front yard was all puddles, so wide and deep-looking that they did seem like one wide spread of water, dimpling and splashing a little as big raindrops fell into them. Our woodpile was an island, a small hilly island standing up out of a yard full of that meanlooking, mud-colored water. Freddie, beside me in a moment, exclaimed, '""Mama, is it going to come right in our kitchen? It's trying to come up our steps!" "Do you think," I asked Mama, "it's raining like this all the way to Huntington and raining on Papa?" "I just wish I knew!" Mama said tightly. "I hope he didn't start back here yesterday afternoon... That road." Her shoulders gave a small shudder before she turned back toward the stove. "Come on, boys. Breakfast will be ready before you can count a hundred." We didn't try to argue, that fragrance could only mean cornmeal mush cooking, and we were hungry. "I wish it would stop!" Bill exclaimed, pulling stockings on. "IT'm tired of indoors play. It's no fun anymore." But that morning Mama let us make honey candy, a big kettleful which we didn't finish pulling 518 until past dinnertime. Dinner's lateness, however, didn't matter; we had sampled the cooking honey at every stage from no ball to soft ball and hard ball to the long-awaited crispy crackle, and we weren't hungry at all. In the afternoon we heard a shout from out front. Our nearest neighbor was sitting at our gate on his roan horse looking very wet, with rain making rivers down his black rubber jacket and down the horse's ribs and rump. We all went out onto the porch to hear what he said to Mama. "Thought I'd drop by and see if you're all right, Missus. Jack is away, isn't he?" "Yes, he is, Mr. Babson. He expected to be home before tonight, but I don't know...." "He may have some trouble, that hill road. You folks need anything?" "No, but thank you. I wish this rain would stop pouring down on us." "Tl amble along, then, and take a look at your bridge. The one up by Coles' place is gone. Coles came around collecting a crew to rebuild, rain or no rain. He's gone on to West's ranch, and I'm going by Scott's place to get a couple or so of his harvest hands and keep them out of mischief. Ill be coming back this way and I'll let you know what I see down there." He rode on, and shortly came back again. "Your bridge is all right so far, Ma'am. Can't tell though... I hope Jack makes it early, the creek may be rough tonight... So long, folks!" That afternoon the _frontyard lake as Freddie insisted on our calling it was lapping at the steps of the porch, and around the well's stone foundation. Mama put on her boots and rain cape and carried bucket after bucket of water. She filled all her big cooking kettles and the wash boiler and both washtubs. "Isn't it ever going to stop raining? And why," demanded Bill, "do we have to have all this water inside our kitchen?" "If the rain goes over the well's foundation the water will be too dirty to drink or to cook with. It would take several days for it to get clear again," Mama explained. Freddie went to a front window and stood a long time looking out at the rain and chanting, "Rain, rain, go away... Come again another day but not for a long time." His sober expressions made the rest of us laugh. We all began singing "Rain, rain, go away.. Don't come back for lots of days...." The singing made us feel better, and our supper of ham, potatoes and gravy, and canned peas, tasted very good, especially ending with chopped apples and cookies. We had eaten early. Mama finished first, and got up and ~ went to the windows again, look- ing out at the sky. "Oh, I wish I knew where our Papa is!"' she exclaimed suddenly. I Later, when both Freddie and the baby were safely tucked in bed, Mama bent over Freddie and said, "Darling, Mama and Eddie and Bill have a job to do, and we have to leave you and Baby here awhile. Can you be a big man and wait quietly until Mama Was a Hero-ine! We get back? It's for Papa we have to do it," she added quickly, when Freddie's mouth opened and his smile changed to an unhappy look. "You'll help us do this for our Papa, won't you?" He nodded gravely and said, "Will Papa be home pretty soon?" "Soon we hope," Mama said. "Goodnight, darling. Sleep tight." In the sitting room Bill and I were waiting, listening, and regarding each other intensely. We were bursting with curiousity, and at the same time feeling more than a little scared. I tried not to show it, but I felt it and was sure Bill did, too. When Mama came in, carefully closing the bedroom door except for a little crack, we sat up straighter, and Bill asked, "Mama, what are we going to do?" "Well... You heard Mr. Babson say that our creek might be pretty rough tonight? Well, if Papa comes along in the stormy dark, he might have trouble with the horses because the water might be a flood and frighten them." "The horses might run away and Papa might get hurt," Bill said as Mama paused. "That's right, Bill. We are going down to the creek and put a light near the bridge so Papa will know there's danger there. Then he'll stop the horses in time, and find out what to do." "But won't the rain make our light go out?" I asked. "Not Papa's new lantern," Mama said. "It has a storm shield. But look... It's starting to get dark, so we have to hurry. Eddie, find your overshoes and Bill's." With warm sweater jackets 

519 July 1970

 under our oilcloth capes, and Mama wearing her tall boots and carrying the lighted lantern while Bill and I each carried a coil of rope, we soon emerged into the gloomy twilight world of storm. The lane was all soft mud except where small rivers ran along the wheel ruts. About halfway Bill stumbled a waterhidden stone turned beneath his foot, Mama thought it was. She let him hold the lantern while she tied rope around each of us, with spaces between, before going on. "This way," she said, "we can't get lost from each other." As we neared the creek, we could hear a roar of water. We stopped at the bridge and stared hard into the stream which seemed to reach high up its banks and had white edges that curled and twisted. Fear curled inside me; I had questions to ask, but was afraid my voice would shake and tell Mama and Bill what a scarecat I was. I saw Mama take hold of the bridge guide and step out onto the bridge, testing it. I had seen Papa do that once when we were having to ford a stream soon after a summer cloudburst. But Papa had used a pole. "It seems... Solid enough," Mama said. "Now, listen, I'll tie your end of the rope to that fence post back there, and this end of my rope around my own waist. It's a good long rope, it'll reach across -the bridge." "Mama! Do you have to go across the bridge?" Bill asked. "Of course. The lantern must be over there, because Papa must see it before he drives too near. But I'll be all right if you two 520 helpers will remember what I tell you and do it. If I yell, both of you pull hard on my rope. Hang onto it tight, and move back away from the bridge, because a yell would mean I've slipped off into the water, see? When I get across, though, Ill wave the lantern to tell you I'm all right. Do you understand everything?" We did, we assured her. She gave us each a quick kiss and stepped away onto the bridge. The water seemed to roar louder and louder. My heart seemed to stop beating every time the lantern bobbed the least bit, and coldness seemed to freeze me into an ice statue. At last the lantern moved high up and we knew Mama was safely on the other side. She moved on a little farther, and we could see, vaguely, the tree beside the road where she was hanging up the lantern, and tying it to a branch, and, at last, she was coming back towards us. It was Bill who thought about coiling the rope as she came nearer. It seemed to me that water was running, now, over the bridge itself. And, of course, now there was no lantern to watch, which would tell us Mama was safe. Then I saw that its little beam of light seemed to be following her. Faintly I could see the caped shape of her coming slowly nearer. What a joy, after that seemingly endless time, to have her back with us, safe and sound! We hugged and kissed her, not minding the least bit her wetness nor our own. Soon we were sloshing homeward again, and the sloshing had a glad, wonderful sound. Soon we could see a tiny square of light ahead, and knew it was the lamp in our front window, leading us through the deepening dark, our own lamp guiding us home. We had reached our gate when the sudden different sound reached us a loud dull boom, and with it a crashing of wood. An ominous cruel sound among the slithering, splashy noise of the rain. Mama's mann caught, mixed with a queer moaning, "Oh oh.. Like a long loud sigh. "It's gone," she said. "Oh, aren't we glad we went and put a light to warn our Papa!" Inside our house, all was quiet. And warm. We got out of our dripping rain wear and into night things and cuddly crocheted slippers. Mama surprised us with cups of hot chocolate. Then we knelt together and said "Amen'"' to Mama's prayer that our Father in heaven would watch over our Papa wherever he might be this stormy night. And then we went happily to bed. We were eating breakfast, next morning, when we heard shouting. First, quite near, the familiar "Halloo-o0-00-ooh!" that was neighbor Elmy's greeting, different from anyone else's we knew. And then, farther away and down our lane but indistinguishable as to words, our Papa's voice. We rushed to open the front door and out onto the porch, all of us together. Rain was still falling, but less of it, and the drops barely dimpled the front-yard lake. Our porch steps were above water, and the well's foundation showed plainly. Mama Was a Hero-ine! These I noted in one swift look before my eyes found what they sought: Papa. Papa, riding Eagle, bareback, and _ leading Prince along behind. I never have been able to remember what words ran through the joyous bedlam that followed. I do remember Mama asking, when Papa and Elmy had reached our gate together and stopped, "Where's the wagon?" in an alarmed tone, and Papa's reply, through a wide grin, "On the other side of the creek. The horses could wade, but the wagon has to wait till the water goes down some." After awhile, a sudden hush fell around us. Papa was asking repeating something he had already asked but said again because Mama was stammering so. "I said, who hung my new lantern down in that tree last night?" Why I did... I was Bit by bit, we 'told Papa all about it, while Papa just sat and stared as if he couldn't believe it. It was Elmy who said at last, "You're a brave girl, Libbie. A brave girl if I ever saw one. What a woman! Jack, do you know how lucky you are, having a wife like her?" Mama's face was all pinky, and Papa's was even pinker. He said after a long silent time, "She'll do, I guess." I sat still, thinking the great thought our Mama was a heroine, brave as any in a book! I looked out the window, amazed. The sun was shining! The bad storm was quitting, and Papa was safe at home again, and Mama our own Mama had become a hero-ine!