[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 502 | General Feature | Editorial— Two Who Care | Marianne C. Sharp]
EDITORIAL / Two Who Care ''Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." ' I, Love one another; as I have loved you."' '".. Pray for them which despitefully use you." ''... Go to the house of mourning." ''Judge not, that ye be not judged."' These and many other admonitory words of Holy Writ pertain to the calling of a visiting teacher. The attributes of loving, cherishing, and comforting permeate the visiting teacher's work. It is the very essence of charity the motto of Relief Society. It is a privilege to be found worthy to be a visiting teacher and a blessed calling which requires personal preparation in the realms of Spirituality, physical effort, intellectual activity, and charitableness. An opportunity is extended to two visiting teachers to enter about eight designated homes each month as emissaries of the Lord to the sisters in the home. Before beginning the calls it is well to go over in one's mind the conditions in each home which one may expect to find and resolve and plan with the companion visiting teacher the development of the message in a particular home, where this is felt to be desirable, and how one may make the sister in the home feel that she is cherished that two visiting teachers do care. In one home may be found loneliness, in another heartache, or there may be sickness. A young mother may be overburdened, or sorrow may have entered a home. Moreover the needs may shift as the months go by. A fervent prayer by visiting teachers humbly offered in behalf of the great visiting teaching work to be accomplished 

, SecretaryTreasurer 502 Lord in in Piration to the Visiting teachers and in a h lowing the r latio Ship t the siste Sin Oomes,. The More r Ceptive visiting teachers are N mak their ViSits, the More they wil be pr Pared to 80 the Second mj 4nd the More blesseq Will their lings Preliminar to the ISit in th home has bee e attendance t he ViSitin acher m ting Which has fortifieg th Visitin teachers hrough the 'NStruction hich hay been received from th Ir Preside t and th discuss ON which aS been held on th Visiting teg her mes Sage itself Thi eting, has f, rtifie Visiting te Chers j; Clr messa eo SPirituality and MPassj * aNd in th Way to add MeaningtuI Ctions to Ords ther need one ho to telephone Or call before the Next VISIt to see What Sister Allen js hearing from her SON in the army? 0 s Sister OSE need + be driy to th doctor? Sister Carr Overburdeneq ith her Ck ther ang young Children? H Visitin achers will Onfidentj Ily report suc Situations an queries Of the elief OClety p ident I 4Ssume the furth rection UNder the INSpiration her Calli Visiting tea hers a Not left alone to Carry out their Callings. They Care for the s Sters h Ome and the President Oversees qi and cares for the Visiting teachers he Lord has prov; a Sisterly Ww h goe t Should be uplifted and who Specially Care for atchcare Over h TS daughters a OCiety Sister that the e. 'Y Relief s SuStained IN the knowledge her and She j re are two alon Marian R Boyer. Ith rlene J. Poulsen: Lucile Pp. Peterson Marjorie M. Reeve, anwaring Lila B Walch Elaine B. Curtis Ada J Ones un Lenore C. Gundersen elma R. West Helen g Lach - Kienitz Marjorie C. Pingree Leanor j Brown e - Winters arlene C Dedeking Reba O. Al Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Buehne, llen N Love 503 Norma A. Aia ol gs Long afterward when I remembered Ronna's doll, it was as if I stood again beside my little sister gazing up at it, beautiful, new, beyond reach. My sister must have been four or five that summer, I two years older, and our playmate, Ronna, just between. Ronna was a chunky little girl full of giggles. We had a jolly time together, except when she was determined to dress and undress our darlings. Of course we wanted to share our dolls, we told each other. But how could we stand by and watch them suffer at her unskilled hands? "Ronna, don't be so rough with Crin and Toodles!" I told her one day. "Mama said they might come unjointed if you pull their arms way out like that!" 504 The corners of Ronna's mouth set firmly into her cheeks. "Not either rough!" she retorted. She pulled Toodles' arm from the shoulder socket until the elastic showed, then let it snap back into the pink sleeve. "You are, too!" I cried. "Let me take her." Ronna pulled away, clutching my doll. "Ill put her in the buggy," she said, but her brown eyes still snapped with indignation. My sister had grabbed Crin and scuttled to the safety of the back porch. Crin and Toodles were fairly large dolls. They were well made, the shoulder and hip joints fitted firmly into sockets and were threaded with strong elastic, which was then tied in the middle of the bodies. The wigs were of real hair sewed to a cloth foundation and then glued to the heads. Long lashes enhanced the opening-and-closing eyes. When Santa Y foodles, a brunette Was Tessedein pink Both had dainty ace-trimmed Underwear conomies Went into their Purchase Price, hen Ronna Came to play, She always told Mama how long she could Stay. Then Play with Crin announced one Ronna's Dolt "Don't make her cry," I said "Mama doesn't like quarreling. And you know you don't have to 80 home yet." "Well, then, let me play with Toodles," 1 won't undress her. But What will I play with?" Smooth head. When I went back to the yard Unfastening the back. "Ronna! Stop! Her head off!"' buggy, and half xpecting to See Toodles' loosened Pillow. July 1970 sister offered. She rummaged in the buggy and handed me the large handkerchief. "Won't you let me play any more?" asked Ronna, her mouth drooping. "You can help wheel the buggy," I said. We started along the path, wheeling the dolls to sleep. After a few moments I said, "Ronna, why don't you bring your doll sometimes? You don't have to play with ours all the time." Ronna shook her head until her short dark hair flew about her face. "No! I don't want to!" she sald. My sister had reached the front gate and turned back. "Here comes Mama with the play dinner!" she cnied. Mama hurried across the yard, carrying a wide shallow pan. She whisked a white dish towel over the upturned wooden box and set the pan on it. "Well, now, I guess you girls can set your dishes around," she said. Then she went back to the house with her quick, light step, toward whatever task she had left unfinished. We lifted out a plate heaped with jelly sandwiches, whole slices cut into fourths, the syrup pitcher filled with cold milk, and the play dishes. "This is my favorite jelly," I said, taking a bite. "We helped Mama pick the wild currants." "Mine, too," said Ronna, licking the red sweet from a corner of her mouth. "Here come the birds!" I said. "Mama said to eat your crusts!" my sister reminded me. "TI do, most of the time," I answered, tossing one to the hovering birds. 506 "Pour some milk into my cup," said my sister, holding it out. "You can drink one of these little cupfuls in one swallow," said Ronna, giggling. The birds cheeped and fluttered for tidbits, keeping their distance at the edge of the picnic place. We emptied and refilled the cups. The pile of sandwiches disappeared. When Mama came back for the pan and the dishes she said, "It's been an hour, Ronna. But do come again." Sometimes, as on that day, we walked part way with her, trundling the small-wheeled buggies over the dirt sidewalk. On the way we discussed our dolls' ailments, their colds and sore throats, their aches, and their occasional naughtiness. I My sister and I didn't go to Ronna's to play very often. When we did, we stayed out in the back yard making mud pies, patting them flat with sticks, and leaving them in the sun to dry. A week or two later when we were there my _ sister _ said, "Ronna, haven't you got a doll?" "Sure I have!" said Ronna. "I got her for Christmas!" "Where is it? Can we see it?" I asked. "I'll ask my mother." Ronna hurried to the house. In a few minutes she opened the back door and beckoned. With careful feet we walked onto the shining floor of the clean kitchen. Her mother said some word of greeting and stood looking down at us, her hands folded. For the first time that day I was conscious of my _ tousled hair and my dusty shoes. Ronna said, "Come on into the bedroom."'. She led the way and pointed to a shelf. There was the doll, smiling out from the slim box edged with paper lace, her beauty shielded by a lid of transparent Te ee Fs Fe AES ie 8 ie i ei = = tS en OE "Oh it's beautiful!" 'It's brand-new!" Ronna beamed. She stood on a stool and lifted the box down. Then she took the lid off and we gazed at the smooth, red-gold curls, the shimmering yellow silk dress, the white slippers and stockings. Ronna lifted the skirt, revealing filmy underwear. "Her eyes open and close, just like your dolls," she said. She tipped the box. Dark lashes curled softly on pink cheeks, like those of any fairy princess. "Real hair, too," Ronna said. "You can touch her, if you want tio." Our fingers were strangely clumsy, fingering the curls, stroking the yellow silk. After a few minutes Ronna put the lid back on the box, climbed iaterial. Our eyes widened. Ronna's Doll onto the stool, and restored it to the shelf. "Come on," she said. We followed her to the back yard. "Ronna, don't you ever play with your doll?" I asked. "Oh, sure, I hold the box, like today," she answered. "But don't you undress her?" I wanted to know. "Or feed her?" asked my sister, thinking, perhaps, of the many times milk had left a sticky trail down Crin's stomach. Ronna bent her head until her dark hair half hid her face. She poked one of the mud pies with the toe of her shoe. "No " she said slowly, "that would spoil her. My mother said so.