[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 531 | General Feature | Notes from the Field— Relief | Society Activities]
0 Relief Society Activities Since The Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue, stake Relief Society presidents and mission Relief Society supervisors are advised to make no further submissions of ''

Notes From the Field," inasmuch as 2 sufficient number of Notes are already on hand for the remaining issues of the Magazine. Palomar Stake (California) Relief Society Pres Fashion Show," February 13, 1970 Palomar Stake Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Arvella McArthur, First Counselor, Phyllis F. Fox, President; Shirleymae Jones, Second Counselor. Standing, left to right: Mary Stucki, social relations class leader, Amaretta Graves, Magazine representative; Ethel Wallace, commentator for fashion show; Virginia Wynn, Katie Clinger. Lynn Davis; Barbara Adair; Nina Loefke; Betty Wahlen, Rosemarie Bunker. Sister Fox reports: "A delicious roast beef dinner was served to over 300 persons prior to a delightful fashion show. The theme for the event was 'Old-Fashioned Sweethearts.' Sisters from eight wards and one branch participated. "Fashions from the late 1800's and early 1900's were modeled by members of the stake board. Other fashions ranged from evening clothing to at-home clothing. Also modeled was a bridal gown." ERRATUM: On page 234, The Relief Society Magazine, March 1970, the Note From the Field credited to the Central States Mission should have been listed: Central Atlantic States Mission Holds Convention, September 6, 1969. 

531 July 1970

 East Pocatello Stake (Idaho), Sixth Ward Singing Mothers Present Concert, January 25, 1970 Front row, left to right: Alice Eskelsen, narrator, Cheryl Redd, soloist; Maude Smith, President, Pocatello Sixth Ward Relief Society; Ranae Wright, First Counselor; Ardath Johnson, President, East Pocatello Stake Relief Society; Ethel Clark, Second Counselor, Sixth Ward Relief Society. Second row, left to right: Edna Drake, organist, East Pocatello Stake Relief Society; Mary Diana, chorister, Sixth Ward Relief Society. Sister Johnson reports: ''Our Sixth Ward Singing Mothers presented a concert in sacrament meeting. The group sang Six numbers, and songs were presented by a soloist, two trios, and a sextet. The program was narrated and two talks were presented." Long Beach Stake (California) Relief Society Makes Red Cross First Aid Program Available to Sisters Seated, Linda Terry. Standing, left to right: Alma Dewey; Burnetta Johnson, Berlinda Hawkins; Carolyn Polly; Rene Page; Estella Young; Anna Barner, Carol McCloud; Jennie Mae Taylor; Max A. Bryan, instructor. Reba Williams, President, Long Beach Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We are making a Red Cross First Aid program available to all sisters in the stake. In February we graduated our first eighteen women, and a new class began in March with thirtysix enrolled. "We have a wonderful instructor in our former stake president, and now stake executive secretary, Max A. Bryan. He has taught first aid to the city firemen, and we feel fortunate to have him. Those receiving the course are trained to give immediate and temporary aid to victims of an accident or sudden ilIness, and better to care for accidents or illnesses in the home." Santa Monica Stake (California) Relief Society Sponsors Nursery Program Seminar, January 30, 1970 Seated, left to right: Doris N. Werner, Counselor, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society; Grace Dimter, Evelyn Astle. Standing, left to right: Nancy Warren; Louise Ahligrim; Mary Kendrick; Laurie Evelyn Bluth, President, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, reports: "Under the direction of Sister Doris Werner, each ward in the stake was asked to gather teaching materials for the lessons for an assigned month. These materials were displayed at the seminar. One ward prepared a homemade wooden puzzle and some patterns for making flannel board figures to g0 along with one of the lessons. "Several inspiring and informative talks were given to help those in attendance foster a better nursery program. Highlight of the seminar was 4 demonstration lesson given by Jean Wood, using several children. "As a gift of encouragement from the stake board, each ward was furnished with a kit of materials for making rhythm instruments. A buffet luncheon was served by the stake board." 582 *OLA THEME 1980 26 Moun 

94 July 1970

 South Bear River Stake, Tremonton First Ward Relief Society Sisters Learn Candy-Dipping Skills Homemade candy being boxed by Roberta Fronk and Iris Mortenson, chairman of the candy project. Lrene P. Kerr, President, South Bear River Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Tremonton First Ward of our stake has instituted a successful fund-raising project. Early in October, a special committee begins to shop for choice nuts, chocolate for dipping, and other ingredients which go into making candy. After the planning and shopping, the centers are made and stored to mellow. "Shortly before Thanksgiving, all sisters who would like to participate are called to a two-day 'sweetmeet.' Here the work is carried out in assembly line fashion, with sisters molding centers, applying an extra bottom of coating, repairing rejects, placing the candy on trays. The sisters who are skilled in the art of dipping chocolates patiently teach anyone who wishes to learn. The candy is placed in one, two, and three-pound boxes and stored for holiday use. Over 300 pounds of candy were sold before Christmas. A special booth at the bazaar featured the candy. "Ella Holt is president of the Tremonton First Ward Relief Society." San Fernando Stake (California) Conducts Home Nursing Program Front row, at left: Ina Easton, President, San Fernando Stake Relief Society. Back row, at left: Eva Schaub, Homemaking Counselor. At far right: Sandra Finley, trained nursing instructor. Sister Easton reports: ''We have appreciated the cooperation of the Red Cross in conducting two initial training classes for our home nursing program, as well as for providing the equipment we use. '"'We feel that the program is successful. Already fifty-four women hieuse enrolled in the program, and many more intend to." Weber Stake (Utah) Spanish Branch Actively Engaged In Relief Society Activities Seated in front: Leota Shupe, Counselor, Weber Stake Relief Society; lone Hurst, President. Standing, left to right: Ruby Martinez, Secretary-Treasurer, Spanish Branch Relief Society; Amada Satelo, Second Counselor; Angela Jacabo; Sarah Mitton; Eva Nelson; Roy H. Maughan, Branch President; Emma Poole; Rose Martinez; Consepcion Ramos; Henriatta Barker, organist; Wilma Minjarez, President. Sister Hurst reports: ''The presidency of the Spanish Branch Relief Society are dedicated in carrying out their responsibilities, although the branch is very widely scattered. During the canning season the sisters were taught to preserve fruits and vegetables. Sister Minjarez invited those who could come to her home to learn there. She and her counselors visited the homes of those who were unable to come, taking her own equipment. "The Relief Society is making quilts, and the sisters are carrying a full Relief Society program, although visiting teaching is a challenge because of transportation problems. This branch has just completed its second assessment toward the Ogden Temple. Their projects have been making tamales, enchiladas, pillows, and other articles. We are very proud of their efforts and they are an inspiration to all of us."' 534 EEE EE ee x TG A Garitde-in UOEG 67 yerorey Se - Nw July 1970 Walnut Creek Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Christmas Concert, December 7, 1969 Front row in white dress: Francelle E. Larsen, chorister, Walnut Creek Stake Relief Society; second row, extreme right: Nada Fluckiger, organist. Muriel P. Cottle, President, Walnut Creek Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Singing Mothers concert was enthusiastically received by a large audience, which was most gratifying, as it was specifically a missionary effort. "The concert began by foretelling the birth of Christ in scripture and song. This was followed by joyous music heralding his birth, and we closed with praises to God the Father, and the Son. 'Selections by the individual ward choruses were directed by the ward choristers, and the stake group combined for several numbers. An especially lovely flute obligato was performed by Annette Bristol and a drum accompaniment on snare drums was performed by Patrice Keddington. Narrator for the concert was Beryl Harmon." Ben Lomond Stake (Utah), North Ogden Fifth Ward Uses Unique Quilt To Aid Building Fund Officers of North Ogden Fifth Ward Relief Society, left to right: Alberta Roberts, First Counselor; Norine Jensen, President; Arlene Terry, Second Counselor; Orvil Terry, Bishop; Barbara Leatherow, quilting chairman. Margaret C. Jones, President, Ben Lomond Stake Relicf Society, reports: "A unique fund-raising project was undertaken by one of the ward Relief Societies in our stake. The sisters sold signatures to be placed on a quilt which was presented to the bishop along with a sizeable sum of money for the building fund. Even the young members of the ward were able to sign the quilt. In the center of the quilt is a reproduction of the building. It is a beautiful, artistic quilt and sure to be treasured by the bishop for many years to come." Japan Mission, Hokkaido District Singing Mothers Sing at Conference February 1970 Elsie M. Bills, Supervisor, Japan Mission Relief Society reports: ''Singing Mothers representing the Sapporo, Muroran, Asahigawa, and Otaru Branches of our mission sang at district conference. "Relief Society is progressing very well in this district of the mission and we are very proud of the sisters here. A full program of Relief Society is being carried out in the branches, including a morning and an evening Relief Society in the Sapporo Branch. 'The Singing Mothers were conducted by Masako Ito and accompanied by Tatsuko Koreyasu. District President is Janet Hirano, and her counselors are Hisako Yanagisawa and Hideko Katagiai, with Yumiko Asari as secretary." 536 580 STAG) ~ HOME MAKING Nebo Stake (Utah) Relief Society Holds Homemaking Festival February 19, 1970 Nebo Stake Relief Society officers, left to right: Grace A. Wightman, SecretaryTreasurer; Betty H. Winegar, First Counselor; Delphia F. Holdaway, President; Edith T. Hiatt, Second Counselor; Pearl B. Winnie, homemaking leader. Sister Holdaway -reports: "All of the wards in the 'stake helped to make our Homemaking Festival a memorable occasion. Quilts, pictures, paintings, ceramics, needlepoint, and other interesting articles of handicraft were displayed and help given to those who wished to learn how to make various articles. "The sisters were enthused and happy with the attendance, and felt it was a most worthwhile experience.