[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 504 | Fiction | Ronna's Doll | Norma A. Wrathall]
[Ronna's Doll Norma A. Wrathall]

We had a jolly time together, except when she was determined to dress and undress our darlings. Of course we wanted to share our dolls, we told each other. But how could we stand by and watch them suffer at her unskilled hands? "Ronna, don't be so rough with Crin and Toodles!" I told her one day. "Mama said they might come unjointed if you pull their arms way out like that!" 504 The corners of Ronna's mouth set firmly into her cheeks. "Not either rough!" she retorted. She pulled Toodles' arm from the shoulder socket until the elastic showed, then let it snap back into the pink sleeve. "You are, too!" I cried. "Let me take her." Ronna pulled away, clutching my doll. "Ill put her in the buggy," she said, but her brown eyes still snapped with indignation. My sister had grabbed Crin and scuttled to the safety of the back porch. Crin and Toodles were fairly large dolls. They were well made, the shoulder and hip joints fitted firmly into sockets and were threaded with strong elastic, which was then tied in the middle of the bodies. The wigs were of real hair sewed to a cloth foundation and then glued to the heads. Long lashes enhanced the opening-and-closing eyes. When Santa Y foodles, a brunette Was Tessedein pink Both had dainty ace-trimmed Underwear conomies Went into their Purchase Price, hen Ronna Came to play, She always told Mama how long she could Stay. Then Play with Crin announced one Ronna's Dolt "Don't make her cry," I said "Mama doesn't like quarreling. And you know you don't have to 80 home yet." "Well, then, let me play with Toodles," 1 won't undress her. But What will I play with?" Smooth head. When I went back to the yard Unfastening the back. "Ronna! Stop! Her head off!"' buggy, and half xpecting to See Toodles' loosened Pillow. July 1970 sister offered. She rummaged in the buggy and handed me the large handkerchief. "Won't you let me play any more?" asked Ronna, her mouth drooping. "You can help wheel the buggy," I said. We started along the path, wheeling the dolls to sleep. After a few moments I said, "Ronna, why don't you bring your doll sometimes? You don't have to play with ours all the time." Ronna shook her head until her short dark hair flew about her face. "No! I don't want to!" she sald. My sister had reached the front gate and turned back. "Here comes Mama with the play dinner!" she cnied. Mama hurried across the yard, carrying a wide shallow pan. She whisked a white dish towel over the upturned wooden box and set the pan on it. "Well, now, I guess you girls can set your dishes around," she said. Then she went back to the house with her quick, light step, toward whatever task she had left unfinished. We lifted out a plate heaped with jelly sandwiches, whole slices cut into fourths, the syrup pitcher filled with cold milk, and the play dishes. "This is my favorite jelly," I said, taking a bite. "We helped Mama pick the wild currants." "Mine, too," said Ronna, licking the red sweet from a corner of her mouth. "Here come the birds!" I said. "Mama said to eat your crusts!" my sister reminded me. "TI do, most of the time," I answered, tossing one to the hovering birds. 506 "Pour some milk into my cup," said my sister, holding it out. "You can drink one of these little cupfuls in one swallow," said Ronna, giggling. The birds cheeped and fluttered for tidbits, keeping their distance at the edge of the picnic place. We emptied and refilled the cups. The pile of sandwiches disappeared. When Mama came back for the pan and the dishes she said, "It's been an hour, Ronna. But do come again." Sometimes, as on that day, we walked part way with her, trundling the small-wheeled buggies over the dirt sidewalk. On the way we discussed our dolls' ailments, their colds and sore throats, their aches, and their occasional naughtiness. I My sister and I didn't go to Ronna's to play very often. When we did, we stayed out in the back yard making mud pies, patting them flat with sticks, and leaving them in the sun to dry. A week or two later when we were there my _ sister _ said, "Ronna, haven't you got a doll?" "Sure I have!" said Ronna. "I got her for Christmas!" "Where is it? Can we see it?" I asked. "I'll ask my mother." Ronna hurried to the house. In a few minutes she opened the back door and beckoned. With careful feet we walked onto the shining floor of the clean kitchen. Her mother said some word of greeting and stood looking down at us, her hands folded. For the first time that day I was conscious of my _ tousled hair and my dusty shoes. Ronna said, "Come on into the bedroom."'. She led the way and pointed to a shelf. There was the doll, smiling out from the slim box edged with paper lace, her beauty shielded by a lid of transparent Te ee Fs Fe AES ie 8 ie i ei = = tS en OE "Oh it's beautiful!" 'It's brand-new!" Ronna beamed. She stood on a stool and lifted the box down. Then she took the lid off and we gazed at the smooth, red-gold curls, the shimmering yellow silk dress, the white slippers and stockings. Ronna lifted the skirt, revealing filmy underwear. "Her eyes open and close, just like your dolls," she said. She tipped the box. Dark lashes curled softly on pink cheeks, like those of any fairy princess. "Real hair, too," Ronna said. "You can touch her, if you want tio." Our fingers were strangely clumsy, fingering the curls, stroking the yellow silk. After a few minutes Ronna put the lid back on the box, climbed iaterial. Our eyes widened. Ronna's Doll onto the stool, and restored it to the shelf. "Come on," she said. We followed her to the back yard. "Ronna, don't you ever play with your doll?" I asked. "Oh, sure, I hold the box, like today," she answered. "But don't you undress her?" I wanted to know. "Or feed her?" asked my sister, thinking, perhaps, of the many times milk had left a sticky trail down Crin's stomach. Ronna bent her head until her dark hair half hid her face. She poked one of the mud pies with the toe of her shoe. "No " she said slowly, "that would spoil her. My mother said so. I have to keep her in the box to keep her nice. Because she cost so much, I guess." "Your doll is sure pretty. Just like new," I said. "We have to go now. Goodbye, Ronna." All the way home our words exploded like popcorn. "Wouldn't it be awful to have a doll you couldn't even play with!" "Do you think it's jointed?" "It was still fastened in the box!" "It's sure pretty, though." "No prettier than Crin and Toodles when they were new." We hurried through the front hall to the bedroom and found our dolls still taking their naps. We snatched them from sleep with kisses. The aura of love that had veiled a dwindling of perfection was pierced by sudden awareness. We smoothed their dresses and combed their matted hair. We searched the bottoms of the buggies and the toy box for their shoes and stockings and bonnets. 507 July 1979 reassuring em brace. "Maybe Santa new wigs for Christmas '+ I ventured. Would bring _ the hall, "J Can stay an hour va I had just put Toodles in the uggy. "All right. If you won't unI turned reluctantly toward the toy box for Something to wrap around Julia. Her Cheeks, "She's only a play with her! If "Go home then! Doll, a brand-new one. Play with your own doll!" I cried. I glared into yes dark with anger, at tears Spilling onto flushed Cheeks, "] can't play with 508 my doll! And you know jt! I Ink you're Mean!" Ronna Shouted kitchen. "THY see if Mama is making the Jelly Sandwiches " she said. By the time back "Mama's making them. She Said to take the buggies out under the tree and eat out there," My sister reported. said that Ronna had gone home. But when Mama Set the pan down there were three cups in it. "I brought the big cups today," Mama told us, smiling all] around. "They don't Spill as easily as the dolly cups. Now, set your picnic out." Then she hurried back to the house. We began eating in Silence, glancing Sideways at each other as we took small bites. "Your mother makes good Sandwiches," said Ronna, at last. Jelly squirted at the corners of her mouth. White mustache!" said Ronna, giggling. Somehow our angry feelings disappeared with the Sweet jelly, the fresh bread, and cold milk. "Here come the birds," said my sister. "They can have my crusts," I said, tossing one recklessly. "Your hair won't be curly," Said Ronna. "Won't be anyway," I agreed. Breezes shook the locust tree and a few pods fell on our heads. Giggles mingled with the chirps of the darting birds. Hen Mama Came back to get the pan she Said, "It's been an hour, Ronna. But do come again." A long sigh slipped from between Ronna's lips. "Oh, I will!" She promised. Ronna's Doll By the next summer, Ronna and her parents had moved away from our town. With the beginning and ripenj after summer, Toodles and Crin and Julia and the Teddy bear, Christmas dolls for my own two little girls, one doll with braided hair and a red suit, the other with blonde curls, and wearing a blue formal. "They're lovely!" exclaimed my friend who was shopping with me. "But of course, you intend tokeep them put up forawhile? Too expensive for regular play, aren't they?" It wasn't the had glanced at gloves. Suddenly, out of memory, J Saw the beautiful untouched doll in its box on the shelf. J Saw again the smal] face, wet with tears of rage, and heard a child's voice echoing, "I can't play with my doll! And you know it!" Again my cheeks burned. "I should have let her play with Toodles that day," I said first time she MY mended My friend stared. Me?" with the dolls. They're for!"