[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 486 | Article | Women's Work in Building the Kingdom Elder Franklin | D. Richards]
Women's Work in Building The Kingdom In asking me to prepare this article, Sister Marianne C. Sharp, Editor of The agazine, wrote, " Relief Society sisters have expressed a need for counsel and direction regarding women's work in building the Kingdom. In the midst of the complexities and problems of our Present earthly environment, some words of helpfulness from you would be greatly appreciated." Recently, erence assignments, I was disquote from her; informative letter: In a recent Relief Society meeting we were discussing the lesson, "Work A Road to Personal Fulfillment," and the subject began to elicit Some personal, 486 Womens Work The Kingdom We can be grateful that throughout the ages God has counseled his People and helped them to solve their problems, and his counsel is as applicable to successful homemaking as to other aspects of life. It is interesting to note that as God has admonished his people through his Prophets two words have frequently appeared order and diligence. And order; for it is not requisite that than he has Strength.... It is In Building Elder Franklin D. Richards Assistant to the Council of the Twelve expedient that he should be diligent, that thereby he might win the prize; therefore, all things must be done in order." (Mosiah 4:27. Italics added.) In connection with the matter we are discussing, the immediate prize ls successful homemaking. In this dispensation through the Prophet Joseph Smith the Lord has told us that his house "ig a house of order.. - and not a house of confusion." (D&C 132: 8. Italics added.) Today things to do, s0 many crowding us. In this environment are key words to success an happiness regardless of the activity we are engaged in. In meeting leaders, I frequently ask them what their greatest needs are. Almost invariably they reply that among their greatest needs is better organization of their time and work, Or, in effect, more order and diligence. And it is not infrequent the question, traits of him say, "Don't be too busy to meditate and when the answer comes have the courage to exeprayer, and To be most effective, meditation requires that time be regularly set aside to consider the things that seem to be required of you. Many times you find you have more to do than you can do in the time available. To develop an orderly pattern, consider the things facing you, analyze their importance and list them in the order of their importance. Give the things of prime importance first priority and develop a plan to accomplish them. Planning involves the development of effective ways which will save time and simplify the operation involved. Prayer ls always advisable in planning the effective use of time. My friend who wrote me Tregarding successful homemaking continued in her letter: Your success formula of "plan, Simplify, and Be Strong" is very applicable. Plan: This does not entail long hours of paper work. It can be anything from a small notebook written in at night before bedtime to 4 mimeographed sheet with spaces to be filled in by each given hour. But it must 1, and it must have a place for short-term and e time average mother has. Kitchen counter tops are Often the Worst "catch-alls " Remove everything but those Items that are in Be Str &: After ave mad your plan, nd Simplified your home SUlroundin don't let Portant Situations r inte Ptions Prevent you rom following your plan, I isn't being Yude to Plain a friend t you can't talk n the Phone no but wil] Call er back Owever, it is to keep a Plan flexip] nough that hould your usband example, cal] With an Unexpected tation to lunch or an afternoon at the beach or lsewhere you can accept 8Taciously and enjoy the time With him. A plan is not meant for work Schedules Only, Pla into day time for Other dressmaking, Cooking, and sports Plan Some Physica] Activity, if only calisthenics Ing the kingdom of God. Hen Called Upon to accept an assignment In the Church, Which jg an important Part of By se cting first things to do and Working oyt 4 plan to accom. Plish them, we develop orderly habits Which Make jt Possible Properly to Care for oy, families and have time to Serve in build. Ing the kingdom of God. 107:99 ) He has Counseled ys to seek out of the best books words of wisdom and to seek learning even by study and faith. (D&C 88:118.) Study should be rated among those things of first importance. In organizing our time and work, time should be regularly allotted for personal study. In accepting opportunities to serve in the Church not only do we contribute to the welfare of others, but we set a proper example for our children which will be a powerful influence for good in their lives. By selecting first things to do and in working out a plan to do them first, we have taken an important step toward accomplishing them. This is where diligence plays a big part. To be diligent in our work means to be effective and not just busy. ' When the Lord counseled us to perform our assignments in all diligence, he meant whether it was convenient for us or not. To perform our assignments diligently, sacrifice of our time, talents, and means is frequently required but we know that sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven. We are thus entitled to the blessings which are predicated upon obedience to this principle of sacrifice. Being diligent also requires faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and in ourselves, and making up our minds to be orderly and diligent is a good part of developing faith in ourselves. Even though our assignments seem difficult, as we develop our faith and persevere we are able to achieve our righteous objectives. Women's Work in Building the Kingdom President Heber J. Grant used to say frequently, "That which we persist in doing becomes easy to do, not that the nature of the thing has changed but that our power to do has increased." To be diligent one must learn to persevere yes, to endure to the end. To the end of what? Can we endure to the end of a day with the same dedication and enthusiasm we had at the beginning of the day, even though faced with frustrations and problems. Each year has 365 days a day twenty-four hours each requiring enduring to the end. However, remember what King Benjamin said, "it is not requisite that a man should run faster than he has strength." He undoubtedly meant mental, physical, financial, orspiritual strength, or all combined. In all phases of my personal experience, I have found it wise to "survey large fields but to cultivate small ones." This involves the setting of goals longterm and short-term goals. In surveying large fields, one in effect makes a master plan which he later develops in orderly stages. This is a sound way to proceed and avoid many disappointments which can _ result from over-extending oneself. "Surveying large fields and cultivating small ones" involves the principles of order and diligence and results in growth and development. These are basic principles of eternal progression. Again quoting from my Relief Society friend's letter: I have a daily and weekly schedule with goals my goals for the next four weeks are: 

489 July 1970

 wr First Week Plan extra time to prepare Relief Society lesson well. Read again from the story of the Prophet Joseph by his mother. Prepare for the nonmember fireside. Thank-you letters. Second Week Plan to reread The Book of Mormon. Read twenty pages this week. Prepare to teach the Red Cross class. Bake bread take some to Sister Hill and Mrs. Bright. Third Week Read to page 45 in Book of Mormon. Send love package to Bill at BYU. Follow-up on families who attended nonmember fireside. Fourth Week Make side drapes for master bedroom. Buttons buttonholes on Mary's dress. Read to page 65 in Book of Mormon. My Relief Society friend's suggeStions are certainly in harmony with the eternal principles of order and diligence. As has been indicated, these traits can be developed and are key words to success and happiness regardless of the activity in which we are engaged. May we apply these eternal principles in our lives and make our homes truly a bit of heaven on earth and a stepping-stone to eternal life which is the most worthwhile prize of all.