HYGIENIC NOTES.
	To Cure Chilbains.—Pour boiling wa-
ter over one pint of wood ashes; when cool
enough immerse the feet; let them remain
about half an hour.—Household.
	Remedy for Scarlet Fever.—Take an
onion and cut it in half; cut out a portion of
the center, and into the cavity put a spoon-
ful of saffron; put the pieces together, then
wrap them up in a cloth and bake them in
an oven until the onion is cooked so that the
juice will run freely; squeeze out all the
juice, and give the patient a teaspoonful, at
the same time rubbing the chest and throat
with goose grease or rancid bacon, if there
is any cough or soreness in the throat. In a
short time the fever will break out in an
eruption all over the body. All that is nec-
essary is to keep the patient warm and pro-
tected from draughts, and the recovery is
said to be certain.
	ALCOHOL AS A REMEDY FOR BURNS.--
Alcohol, recommended by Sydenham, has
lately been employed by Leviseur, particu-
larly with children, as the most rapid and
effective means of alleviating the pain of
burns. The affected part is either simply
covered loosely with an alcoholic compress,
or is bathed with alcohol, when the pain in-
stantly disappears, but returns when the ap-
plication ceases. It must, therefore, be con-
tinued for from one to two hours, and then
be repeated at longer intervals, until the
reddened epidermis is bleached and shriv-
elled, or until any blisters that may have
formed have opened and discharged, which
will take place in from six to twelve hours.
Care should be taken, especially where the
surface to be treated is large, that the vapor
of the alcohol does not affect the patient.
	FOR BOILS—A SURE CURE.—Dr. Simon, a
physician of Loraine, states that, as soon as
the culminating point of a boil makes its ap-
pearance, he puts in a saucer a thimbleful of
camphorated alcohol, and, dipping the ends
of his middle fingers into the liquid, rubs
the enflamed surface, especially the middle
portion, repeating the operation eight or ten
times, continuing the rubbing at each time
for about half a minute. He then allows
the surface to dry, placing a slight coating of
camphorated olive oil over the affected sur-
face. He states that one such application in
almost all such cases causes boils to dry up
and disappear. The application should be
made at morning, noon, and in the evening
[Column 2]
He avers that the same treatment will cure
witlows, and all injuries of tips of fingers.
As soon as pain and redness appear, the fin-
ger should be soaked for ten minutes in
camphorated sweet oil. The relief is said to
be immediate, and three applications are 
generally enough to effect a cure.
	REMEDY FOR POISON BY IVY.—It seems
to me that I read all kinds of cures for ivy
poison except the right one. I have always
endeavored to keep it before the public, but
have failed. It is to take sugar of lead (a
bit the size of a hazelnut,) in half a teacup of
sweet milk or warm water. Apply as warm
as can be borne easily with a soft, linty piece
of linen rag. Three or four applications are
sufficient to affect a cure. If the poison is
on the face and nearing the eyes or mouth,
this astringent wash may be constantly ap-
plied.
	It is a marvellous cure, and by watching
closely one can see the fevered blisters turn
from white to yellow during the application.
This remedy for ivy should prevent a great
deal of suffering. It is well where a mem-
ber of a family is easily poisoned to keep su-
gar of lead in the house all the time. Let it
be labelled and kept where it can be found
the moment it is wanted. Keep it well
wrapped up that it may not lose its strength.
—Cor. Ohio Farmer.


