FACTS AND FIGURES.

	IN China twenty-two different societies
have established more than 300 mission
stations and out-stations, and the number
of church members is variously estimated
from 6,000 to 10,000.
	MARIA M. Simpson, of Boston, recently
bequeathed $1500 to a domestic during her
life, and after her death the principal to go
to the Association of the Home of the Good
Samaritan.
	ONE-THIRD of the unskilled laborers in
New York are idle. A population of 90,000
are really in want. They have had no em-
ployment for six months, and none is ex-
pected till spring, at soonest.
	MARSHALL Bazaine is described by the
French police as being six feet and a half
inch in height, stout, 65 years of age. His
ferohead is said to be low, and his hair
short and turning to gray.
	EXPERIMENTS have recently been made
at Liverpool with a new masthead light, in-
tended for ocean steamers. It throws a fine,
brilliant, white light, and can be seen dis-
tinctly five miles. The light is made from
a powder, and is thrown through a magnify-
ing glass, something on the magic-lantern
plan.
	THE yield of fruit in Rhode Island this
year, surpasses that of almost any other
year in its history, and the people have
hopes that the State is regaining the repu-
tation for fruit-raising it once had. Besides
the larger fruits there is a considerable crop
of cultivated cranberries, the towns of Ex-
eter and Richmond alone yielding from 8,
000, to 10,000 bushels.
	LEWISTON, Me., has ten cotton mills and
five woolen mills, with an estimated capi-
tal of $7,500,000, consuming 35,000 bales
of cotton per year, employing 7,544 hands,
and distributing over $3,000,000 per year,
chiefly to labor, producing 35,000,000 yards
of goods and nearly 3,000,000 grain bags.
the total value of manufacturers last year
was $11,500,000.
	THE German daily papers of Cincinnati are
discussing the question of the length of the
daily school sessions. One suggests that
for the winter the hours be from eight to
eleven, and from one to three for the small-
er scholars, and to four o'clock for the lar-
ger ones. Another favors from half-past
eight to half-past eleven, and from two to
four.
	A WOMAN recently died in Paris at the
age of forty-three from bulimia, or an ex-
cess of appetite. She ate every day an av-
erage of six and a half pounds of bread and
on half-pound of meat. It required about
nine pounds of bread to completely satisfy
her. She earned about a half dollar per
day as a needle woman and was obliged to
expend the whole for food.


HORACE GREELEY once spoke thus wise-
ly upon a question of great interest to all
farmers: "Our farmers' sons escape from
their calling whenever they can, because it
is made a mindless, monotonous drudgery,
instead of an ennobling, liberalizing, intel-
lectual pursuit. Could I have known in my
youth what a business farming sometimes
is, always may be, and yet generally shall
be, I would never have sought nor chosen
any other."


A TALE of thrilling interest—The rattle-
snake's.﻿


