NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE PRESENT term of Congress opened
at Washington on the 7th inst. President
Grant sent in an unusually lengthy message,
but so many subjects had to be presented
that "woman suffrage" or the "Mormon
question" were neither of them referred to.
	THE PROPOSITION to grant women the
right of suffrage, which was lately submit-
ted to the vote of the people in Michigan,
was lost. But its defenders are not in the
least awed in consequence of this failure; a
correspondent to the "Woman's Journal,"
heads an article upon the subject, "Defeated
but not Subdued."
	MRS MALLOY, connected with the press
at Elkhart, Indiana, says she loves her
present line of business so well that she
can work sixteen hours out of the twenty-
four at it, and her work does not seem bur-
densome. She considers that journalism is
especially woman's work, and that any wo-
man who naturally takes to it will succeed
where most men would utterly fail. Presi-
dent Young entertains much the same
opinions and has several times illustrated
them from the stand.
	A HOME for widows and single women
has lately been opened in Philadelphia by 
ladies of the Presbyterian church in that 
city. Woman may be regarded as a worth-
less inconvenience by some of the unappre-
ciative "sons of Adam"—and alas! it must
be acknowledged, sons of Eve too—but
since she has begun to comprehend how
much there is for her to do in the reform-
ing of the world, she has gone to work with
a will and a purpose, and is accomplishing
a vast amount of good.
	IT IS asserted that in ancient Egypt
women were honored and respected equally
with men; their opinions were considered
quite as worthy of notice; and their names,
on such occasions as weddings were as likely
to precede those of the gentlemen as other-
wise.  An extraordinary high degree of
culture is also said to have been fairly
claimed by the race.  These two statements
hang together well, and may be regarded as
another evidence in favor of equal rights
being extended to men and women.


