HYGIENIC NOTES.
	Frosted Feet Remedy.—It is recom-
mended to paint the feet a few nights with
tincture of iodine. Another remedy, said
to be sure, is:—Take mutton suet and resin,
equal parts; stew together and anoint the
feet before going to bed.
	TREATMENT OF CHILBLAINS.—The Can-
ada Medical Journal recommends sulphur-
ous acid in this affection. It should be ap-
plied with a camel-hair brush, or by means
of a spray producer. One application of
this usually effects a cure. The acid should
be used pure. A good wash for hands or
feet affected with chilblains, is sulphurous
acid, three parts; glycerine, one part; water,
one part. The acid will be found particu-
larly useful in the irritating, tormenting
state of chilblains.
	RESERVE POWER.—It is not wise to work
constantly up to the highest rate of which
we are capable. If the engineer on the
railroad were to keep the speed of his train
up to the highest rate he could attain with
his engine, it would soon be used up. If a
horse is driven at the top of his speed for
any length of time, he is ruined. It is well
enough to try the power occasionally of a
horse or an engine, by putting on all the
motion they will bear; but not continuously.
All machinists construct their machines so
that there shall be a reserve force. If the
power required is four-horse, then they
make a six-horse engine, take a boiler 
rated at eight or ten-horse, so as to fire up
slowly, work the boiler easily, and have
plenty of steam. All agree as to the econo-
my of keeping plenty of reserve steam.
	The "Herald of Health," applying this to
a man, says: "A man who has strength to
do twelve honest hours of labor in twenty-
four, and no more, should do but nine or ten
hours work. The reserve power keeps the
body in good repair. It rounds out the
frame to full proportions. It keeps the mind
cheerful, hopeful, happy. The person with
no reserve force is always incapable of ta-
king on any more responsibility than he al-
ready has. A little extra exertion puts
him out of breath. He cannot increase his
work for an hour without danger of an ex-
plosion. Such are generally pale, dyspeptic,
bloodless, nervous, irritable, despondent,
gloomy; we all pity them. The great source
of power in the individual is blood. It runs
the machinery of life and upon it depend
our health and strength.
	A mill on a stream where water is scanty
can be worked but a portion of the time.
So a man with a little good blood can do
but little work. The reserve power must
be stored up in this fluid. It is an old say-
ing among stock-raisers, that 'blood tells'.
It is equally true that blood tells in the 
sense in which we use the word. If it is
good blood, then the more of it the better.
When the reserve power of an individual
becomes low, it is an indication that a
change is necessary, and that it is best to
stop expending and go to accumulating,
just as the miller does when the water gets
low in the pond. Such a course would save
many a person from physical bankruptcy."
{Column 2]
	SORE THROAT—TIGHT COLLARS.—An
eminent physician, who devotes the whole
of his attention to diseases of the throat and
lungs, told us the other day that about three-
fourths of all throat diseases would get well
by wearing very loosecollars, and no necktie
at all. He said that often singers would 
come to him with throat disease, and loss of
voice, and he would tear open their cra-
vats and cure them with no other treatment
whatever. "The pressure of the collar on
the arteries of the neck is very bad for the
health," said he. He also added:—If you
have a disease of the throat, let nature do
the curing, and the physician just as little
as possible.
	CURE FOR CORNS.—The safest, and most
accessible, and the most efficient cure of a 
corn on the toe, says Hall's Journal of
Health, is to double a piece of thick, soft
buckskin, cut a hole in it large enough to
receive the corn, and bind it around the toe.
If in addition to this the foot is soaked in
warm water for five or more minutes every
night and morning, and a few drops of sweet
oil or other oily subsatnce, are patiently rub
in on the end after soaking, the corn will al-
most infallibly become loose enough in a
few days to be easily picked out with a fin-
ger nail. This saves the necessity of par-
ing the corn, which operation has some-
times been followed by painful and danger-
ous symptoms. If the corn becomes incon-
venient again, repeat the process at once.


