HOME AFFAIRS.
	THE STREET crossings are being improved at
several differnt corners where improvements
were much needed, by the laying of plank
crossings. Thanks to our City Fathers.
	GRASS CREEK Coal, from the Old Church
mine, we find upon testing to be of superior
quality. This mine is now worked by Bishops
Cluff of Coalville, Richins of Heneferville and
Winters of Unionville. We received a sample
from Mr. Angus M. Cannon who is agent for it
in this city.
	NEWS FROM St. George are to the effect, that
President Young's health is much better than
when he left his home in this city, and still
improving. A rain storm of three day's dura-
tion was lately experienced there, which is
something quite unusual for that country.
	THEOLOGICAL CLASSES are being organized
in connection with the Sabbath Schools of the
different Wards in this city. They are for the
instructing of the teachers and larger scholars
in the principles of the Gospel, in a manner
that will enable them to impart the knowledge
they gain readily to others; and are calculated
to be of great benefit.
	DURING CHRISTMAS week a fair will be open
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, un-
der the management of the Relief Society of
the Ward. A great variety of articles, useful
and beautiful, will be on exhibition and for
sale. Tickets will be issued at low prices, and
a general invitation to visit and patronize is
extended to the public.
	MAJOR OVERTON recently burned the entire
personal property of his daughter Alice; includ-
ing her trunk, wardrobe, presents and keep-
sakes from dear friends, because of her leaving
home on account of the harsh and cruel treat-
ment she was there subjected to by her parents.
One of the meanest things that ever took
place in Utah. 
	FATHER PHINEAS Richards, aged eighty-six
years, died in this city on the evening of the
25th ult. He was the father of Apostle F. D.
Richards a cousin of President Brigham Young,
and one of the early settlers of these valleys.
Until the close of his mortal career,he remained
firm in the faith of the Gospel of Jesus Christ,
which he embraced more than thirty years ago.
He leaves behind a large circle of friends and
relatives, including many children, grand chil-
dren and great grand children.
	THE NEWS of the sudden demise of Mrs. Alice
Young Clawson, which occurred on Wednes-
day, the 2nd. Inst., at St. George, Washington,
Co. brought unspeakable grief to many near con-
nections and relatives who had known and
loved her best, and feelings of deep sympathy
to a large circle of friends. The daughter of
President B. Young and wife of Mr. H. B.
Clawson, she was well known in the commu-
nity, and as a worthy lady was highly respec-
ted. Among the kindred hearts which remain
to mourn her loss, is that of her aged mother,
Mrs. Mary A. Young. She left also four youth-
ful sons, by whom the great bereavement will
be most keenly felt. She died in the thirty-
seventh year of her age.


THE Baroness Burdett-Coutts recently
distributed about fifty money prizes, her
own gifts all, to London canters wagoners
and donkey-drivers, who, at an afternoon
exhibition, satisfied their examiners that
their animals had been well cared for and
humanely treated.


