		BY CLARA E. SYLVESTER.

	Particularly to my sister woman do I ad-
dress myself. She seems unconscious of the
work that is required of her, and that God
intends her to perform, and that now is the
time to prepare herself for her future work.
Therefore I would that she awake to a
knowledge of the truth. In order to ob-
tain it she must seek it. To whom and
where should she go? Surely not to man!
But to the high unseen Ruler of the Uni-
verse. The way is open to all, and so sim-
ple that even a child may not err.
	A feeling of apathy and indolence exists
that must eventually be swept away by the
growth of the seeds of truth, right and
justice, that have been scattered broadcast
o'er the land. 'Tis time for action to take
the place of theory; time for woman to show
more self-reliance; time to break away from
false customs that are dragging her down-
ward and rapidly destroying true woman-
hood.
	The agitation of Woman Suffrage has
done much to alleviate her condition. How
much more might be done, were she a 
recognized power, possessed of individu-
ality and courage, to act according to her
knowledge of right! Is she not amenable
to higher law? Then let her be guided by
that, rather than by a false state of society
and erring creeds.
	Woman, come out from the false state in 
which society has placed you! Be true to
yourself, true to nature and the God with-
in you. Many, very many would gladly
throw off the hypocritical mantle that en-
velopes them, but alas! the fear of public
censure binds them. The time is not far
distant when all must choose between the 
false and the true. Every one should stand
by the one great principle of right. What
we want is more persons who are willing to
labor hard with but small recompense.
[Column 2]
	Women, why will you remain in ignor-
ance in slavery, for slaves you are, slaves to
fashion, slaves to public opinion and slaves
to yourselves. Your mission is a high one.
Were you free and unfettered, you would
soon attain a higher state, and thereby re-
form society and remove the iron heel that
would crush you for daring to assume the
right of your own person.
	Woman, could you but see the power
given you by nature, and use that power to
elevate yourself; if you would aspire to the
high and moral standard marked out for 
you from the beginning; if you would seek
that high, noble, state, attainable only by
growth, by living nearer unto "nature's
God;" by striving to obey "Divine law;"
seeking to understand yourself; following
the dictates of your inner nature, take rea-
son for your guide; throw off the hypocriti-
cal mantle of society and come out in the 
light of truth; women, could you see the
better life to which you are hastening, to
which destiny is pushing you, and for which 
so many noble minds are working, you
would be willing to lend a helping hand
rather than retard the progress of events
by opposition and inaction.
	Strange that people are so long in wak-
ing up to these truths; strange they do not
recognize the work of a higher power;
strange they do not see that the world
is on the verge of a great change, and that
the human family are being slowly prepared
for the coming contest of right against
might.


