     FROM THE "HERALD OF HEALTH."
			       
	On the first day of each dawning year it
is the, custom of nearly all civilized men and
women, throughout the world, to address
each other in salutations of smiling cheer
and mutual good wishing. It is a very an-
cient and beautiful custom. Old earth would
be a sad and dreary home to us all without
such recurring occasions for gleeful and
kindly greetings. Yet, beautiful as this glad
custom is, it would be still more beautiful
if the words in which its import is conyeved
were not so very frequently contradicted by
the acts which accompany it. A young
man enters the drawing-room to make his
New Year's call. The ladies with joyous
greeting and happy New Year wishings,
perhaps proffer the wine glass, and thus
sanction a habit and a custom that will al-
most certainly make the New Year an un-
happy one. There is certainly no Happy
New Year to be found in this way of wish-
ing it. Oh! fine and beautiful friends, do
not in your mistaken obedience to fashion
 and custom—a custom of a darker day than
ours, with the light of science and progress
beaming on it—permit yourselves to become
allies of such a tempter. But we must not
confine our New Year’s salutation entirely
to our lady friends. There are young men,
brothers and friends, whom we desire to
council; and we pray you who have hereto-
fore toyed with this fashionable practice of
sipping wine on New Year’s day to do so no
longer. It opens a door which you may
never be able to shut; it unchains a monster
that may devour you as you lie helplessly
chained to the habit.
	But wine drinking on New Year’s day is
not the only habit that curses and dwarfs our
race. If it were we could soon oust it from
its abode and send it to the dark and forgot-
ten past. The curse of lethargy lies like a
spell on many promising youths, who are sur-
rounded by wealth and all their hearts de-
sire, so they do not rouse themselves to a
proper appreciation: of the dignity and
'grandeur of life. To all such we say: Cut
yourselves loose from your moorings and
throw yourselves into the current of life's
work, and fight its battles nobly, making the
earth brighter and better for your life. Then
there is the curse of overwork and worry,
that grinds away the lives of the very best
of our kind, long before they should go
leaving a void that cannot be filled. Then
again there is the curse of ignorance, that
wrecks multitudes that are wortrh saving;
and the curse of tobacco, that befouls our
fair land from end to end, and the curse of
disease, that might and should be blotted
out; and worse than all, the great curse of
sensuality, that hides its head in the heart
and soul of the land, and fouls and blots the
fair face of humanity, till all cry out to God
for help. Oh! friends and brothers, these
curses it belongs to us to remove. Shall we
not do it? Shall we not, as the New Year
dawns on our vision, rouse ourselves to the
Herculean task, and throw off the loads
which weigh us down? But we must not
preach a long sermon, with a long face, and
so we wish a Happy New Year to friends

[Column 2]
and readers everywhere, and will end by
giving a few hints that may aid us in gain-
ing that blessing that adds so much to our
strength, our courage, our hope, our power
to endure.
	Happiness comes by keeping the body
and mind healthy and strong. Happiness
comes from the overflow of life. True, many
are happy who are not healthy, but they
are favored mortals. Happiness comes
from wholesome occupation.
	It also comes from rest and recreation.
	It comes from study and reflection.
	It comes from moderate wealth, wisely
used.
	It comes from friends, and sweet commun-
ion with those we love.
	It comes from homes and children.
	It comes from love to God and man.
	It comes from the joys of pure and unde-
filed religion. 
	It comes from hope and love, faith and
charity.
	It is the gift of God to those who love
him, and wisely use what he has bestowed
on them. Let us, then, one and all, as the
New Year breaks on our vision, wish each
other a happy New.Year, and each do some-
thing to make it so, not only for ourselves
but for others. Then shall joy fill our hearts,
and life be sweet and beautiful.


