HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Lemon and Orange Peel.—Dry thoroughly, pound
or grind in a handmill; sift, bottle, and cork. Ex-
cellent for flavoring.
	Wine Whey.—Boil a pint of milk; and put to it
a glass of white wine; set it over the fire till the
curd has settled, when strain it and sweeten to your
taste.
	Stains on the Hands.—If you have been pickling
or handling acid fruit and have stained your hands
wash them in clear water, wipe them lightly, and
while they are yet moist strike a match and shut
your hands around it so as to catch the smoke, and
the stains will disappear.
	Filling Cracks.—For filling cracks in wooden fur-
niture, try the following cement: Moisten a piece
of recently burnt lime with enough water to make
it fall into powder; mix one part of the slaked
lime with two parts of rye flour, and a sufficient
quantity of boiled linseed oil to form a thick plas-
tic mass.
	Baked Indian Pudding.—Scald one quart of
milk, pour it on five large spoonfuls of meal, add
one cup of molasses, and pour it into your pudding
dish, in which you have melted a piece of butter
the size of an egg. This makes a nice pudding;
free from whey. If the whey is preferred, add.
as soon as it begins to bake, a cupful of cold milk
	Simple Corn-meal Pudding.—Stir into a quart of
boiling milk the yolks of two eggs, three heaping
spoonfuls of meal and half a cup of sugar, well
beaten together. Cook five minutes; stirring con-
stantly; remove from the fire, and add the whites,
beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a pudding dish,
and bake one hour in a moderate oven. Serve
with cream and sugar.
	To get clear of Rats.—If you want a rat remedy,
take copperas—the quantity to depend upon the 
number of buildings or places infested—pulverize
it very fine, and be sure and sprinkle some in all


their holes in the corn crib, under all the buildings,
in a word, wherever they may congregate, and in a
few days all the rats will be gone. This is very
simple and easily tried, and has proved completely
successful several times at different places. No
rat seen three days after a thorough application.


