DIVERSIONS.

	An ox that had been eating fermented
grain, which was in preparation for making
ale, became intoxicated, and was offered for
sale by his owner as "corned" beef.
	"WHAT do you ask for this article?" in-
quired Obadiah of young Miss Miller.
"Only twenty-five cents." "Ain't you a 
little dear?" "Why," she replied, blush-
ing, "all the young men tell me so."
	"WOULD that I could coal her mine!" ex-
claimed the hopeless suitors for the hand of
Lady Caroline Guest of England, who has
an annual income of $1,500,000 from her
coal mine in Wales,
	"HOW old is your mamma?" asked a love-
smitten old bachelor of the daughter of the 
widow who had enchanted him. "I don't
know, sir; ma's age varies from forty-three
to twenty-five," was the artless reply.
	THE vitality of some people is simply as-
tounding. There is a long-haired youth
who has written seven hundred verses, the
refrain to which is, "I am dying, mother,
dying," and withal he is'nt dead.
	SMITH and Jones were at the menagerie,
and the conversation turned on Darwin's
theory. "Look at the monkey," said Smith,
"think of its being an undeveloped human!"
"Human!" said Jones contemptuously, "it's 
no more human than I am."
	"IF you don't see what you want, ask for
it," is posted up in a conspicuous place in a
Logansport grocery. A native stepped into
the establishment last week. He saw the
card, and remarked, "I want a ten-dollar
bill, and I don't see it." "Neither do I,"
was the laconic reply.
	AN Indiana Judge stands no nonsense
from the bar. A lawyer, lately, in the
course of his argument, used the word "dis-
paragement." "Stop using Latin words,"
said the Judge, "or sit down." The poor
lawyer, undertaking to explain, was ruth-
lessly fined $20 for contempt.
	A SCOTCHMAN having hired himself to a
farmer, had a cheese set down before him
that he might help himself. The master
said to him, "Sandy, you take a long time
to breakfast." "In troth, maister," an-
swered he, "a cheese a' this size is nae sae
soon eaten as ye may think."
	TO be the husband of a petted prima donna
cannot be altogether agreeable. He is noth-
ing but an attachment to and faint reflection
of her. He is part of her suit, whose ex-
penses are paid by the manager, and he is
generally regarded as her maid is, or her
poodle, her canary or guitar, or any other
incumberance.
	THERE was once a clergyman in New
Hampshire, noted for his long sermons and
indolent habits. "How is it," said a man
to a neighbor, "That Parson —, the laziest
man living, writes those interminable ser-
mons?" "Why," said the other, "he proba-
bly gets to writing, and is too lazy to stop."
	MRS. Jipes, of Greasy Point, Ill., afte
sawing a cord of wood, digging five bushels
of potatoes, milking twenty cows, carrying
ten tubs of water, and doing a washing of
ten dozen pieces, incidentally mentioned
being tired. Mr. Jipes read to her from a 
newspaper: "I believe that nothing would
tend so effectually to get rid of these crea-
tions of weariness, and that overstimulation
of the emotions, as a fair share of healthy
work directed toward a definite object."
Just here a can of Royal Baking Powder
[Column 1]
struck him in the abdomen. Following this
came a stove lid, three pancakes, a rotten
tomato, salt cellar, bowl of buttermilk and
all the dough for Thursday's baking. It
was evident she considered her lord a "defi-
nite object," and the fair share of work di-
rected toward him was a little healthier than
he would have desired.


