		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	LIE DOWN AND REST.—Dr. Hall says the
best medicine in the world, more efficient
than all the potencies of the materia medi-
ca, are warmth, rest, cleanliness and pure
air. Some persons make it a virtue to brave
disease to "keep up" as long as they can
move a foot or crook a finger, and it some-
times succeeds; but in others the powers of
life are thereby so completely exhausted
that the system has lost all ability to recu-
perate, and slow and typhoid fever sets in,
and carries the patient to a premature
grave.  Whenever walking or working is
an effort, a warm bed and a cold room are
the first indispensable steps to a sure and
speedy recovery.  Instinct leads all beasts
and birds to quietude and rest the very mo.
ment disease or wounds assail the system.

	GOING TO BED.—We should never go to
bed with a hope for rest, sleep and perfect
repose until "all ready." The prelimina-
ries for retirement are just as important as
those for the day's duties. We must not go
to bed with an overloaded stomach, in an

[Column 2]
anxious or troubled state of mind, with
cold extremities, or without anticipating
or responding to the calls of nature in all
respects. Standing over a register, or be-
fore a warm stove, or in a heated room, is
not the best way to get warm for a night's
sleep. We should take such vigorous exer-
cise as will give quick circulation to the
blood, and not depend on artificial but natu-
ral heat. Attention to all these things, fol-
lowed by such devotional exercises as will
bring all the feelings, emotions and senti-
ments into accord with the divine will, sub-
duing passions, removing hatred, malice,
jealousy, revenge, and opening the portals
of heaven to all who seek rest, peace and
sweet repose.—Science of Health.
	EATING WITHOUT AN APPETITE.—Hall
says:—"It is wrong to eat without an appe-
tite, for it shows there is no gastric juice in
the stomach, and that nature does not need
food; and not needing it, there being no
fluid to receive and act upon it, it remains
there only to putrefy, the very thought of
which should be sufficient to deter any man
from eating without an appetite for the re-
mainder of his life. If a tonic is taken to
whet the appetite, it is a mistaken course,
for its only result is to cause one to eat more,
when already an amount has been eaten be-
yond what the gastric is able to prepare.
The object to be obtained is a larger supply
of gastric juice, not a larger supply of food;
and whatever fails to accomplish that essen-
tial object fails to have any efficiency to-
ward the cure of dyspeptic diseases. The
formation of gastric juices is directly pro-
portioned to the wear and tear of the sys-
tem, which is to be the means of supplying,
and this wear and tear can only take place
as the result of exercise. The efficient
remedy for dyspepsia is work—out-door
work—beneficial and successful in direct
proportion as it is agreeable, interesting and
profitable.
	CIDER AND COFFEE AS MEDICINES.—
Common sweet cider boiled down to one-
half makes a most excellent syrup for coughs
and colds for children—is pleasant to the
taste, and will keep throughout the year in
a cool cellar.
	In recovering from an illness, the system
has a craving for some pleasant acid drink.
This is found in cider which is placed on
the fire as soon as made, and allowed to
come to a boil, then cooled, put in casks, and
kept in a cool cellar. Treated thus it re-
mains for many months as good as the day
it was made.
	We once saved the life of an infant which
had been inadvertently drugged with laud-
anum, and was fast sinking into the sleep
which has no awaking, by giving it strong
coffee, cleared with the white of an egg, a
teaspoonful every five minutes until it
ceased to seem drowsy.—Hall's Jour. Health.


