PARENTAL DUTIES.

	On the whole, parental duties are perhaps
the most neglected of all those which bind
life together, and the simple neglect of
which tangles the threads of existence, and
makes the world the wilderness it is. *  *
The wisest and most stupid alike fail in this
respect; and yet it is a test of men—this
fatherhood. "By their fruits ye shall know
them." That foolish man and bad sovereign,
Charles I., whose character has at times
been falsely whitewashed with historical
lies, may be well judged from his two sons,
Charles II. and James II. Both were hypo-
crites, both tyrants and legal murderers, 
both licentious and adulterous, the first with
an easier tact, but the second with a pro-
found stupidity, the prey of Jesuits, the
tool of intriguers; the two forming a world's
wonder of wickedness and folly—fit fruits
of Charles I. Charles II. was nineteen years
old when his father perished, and, having
fought at Naseby, should have learned more
than he did from the hard school of neces-
sity. Yet, on the other hand, it would be
easy to find bad sons of good parents; there
is no lack of sons of Eli, who put to shame
the piety of their fathers, and the young
Ascanius does not always follow the foot-
steps of the pious Aeneas. As a rule—one,
we believe, with fewer exceptions than any
other—good fathers make good children.
When they fail, it is when they are inju-
diciously good. We can quite comprehend
the behavior of the daughters of Milton,
who, it is said, spent the household money
on dress, and went gadding about, leaving
the sublime blind old poet lonely and at
home. Such a thing may have taken place
once or twice. The lonely house of a blind
Republican, poet, and theologian, statesman
and polemic, must have offered few attrac-
tions to young women around whom the
changed world was seething and dancing in
a wild chorus of regained freedom and
loosened morality. So too, we believe
that clergymen's sons of most sects have no
particular attraction to theology; but on
the whole, they are well brought up and
good citizens. It would be a strange thing
indeed if training, which we find so efficient
with animals, were not so with men. The
universal cry for education would be mad-
ness, if as a rule, education were a failure.
But it is not so. We have only to look
round on the families of our friends, and to
note that, where the father and mother are
wise and kind, and know how to combine
wisdom with kindness—to know when wis-
dom means indulgence and when it means
severity—the children are well behaved,
lovable, and easy to govern, and that, on the
contrary, where the parents are not, and do
not know what we have stated, the children
are obstinate, mulish, and often hard-heart-
ed.
	A child is a wonderful gift. The first
question with many is to know what to do
with it. Everywhere—except in extra-luxu-
rious and wickedly-rich communities, as in
New York or Paris—children are welcome,
and a marriage is seldom happy without
them; but, welcome or not, they are a prime
necessity of nature; and the world exists
with its own fecund and ever-productive
power a great deal more for babies than it
does for rich princes, millionaire merchants,
or sceptical and worn-out philosophers.
		*	*	*	*	*
	Long before the father has a chance of
teaching boy or girl, the babe belongs to
the mother. And here we feel and know
at the outset that there is an immense want.
		*	*	*	All mothers, having
[Column 2]
studied some good home-work on their own
health and condition, should learn all about
"baby," and begin early with him or her,
the more the mother knows, and the more
active she is, the less trouble the child will
be. It begins to observe early. It will
quickly show its nature—which, if healthy,
is often a lively and rebellious one. It will
fully understand, at from three to nine
months old, anger, sorrow and endearment.
A frown at such an age, and a determined
look, will do more to educate the child than
a flogging at nine years. Watch a child,
and it will watch you; its every movement
is an education. We often hear of men im-
bibing deceit from their mother's milk.
We have very little doubt that babes learn
lying and falsehood when mere sucklings.
Robert Hall, the great preacher, once found
a lady who went out of the parlor with her
bady, put on her night-dress, and lay down,
to persuade the child to sleep. "Madame,"
he said in his sternest tones, "how very aw-
ful. You are teaching your little girl to be
a liar!" And he was right. A child 
who measures distance with its hands and
educates its feet to walk, is engaged in as
as subtle operations as the operation of dis-
cerning truth from obvious falsehood. What
it wants to get, and knows it can get by
pretended sorrow, it will. The shortest
way to deal with it is by gentle and kind
firmness, and instant correction. What the
mother wants is a good, kind, and wise
child; she will never get such by foolish
indulgence. Many a mother dies spent
and exhausted, worn out by mistaken kind-
ness, whilst afar off, a curse to himself and
those around him, a slave to petty indul-
gences and bad and selfish habits which
"mamma" taught him, hated and despised
by his companions, the spoilt son drivels
away his existence.
	Mothers should especially learn that
goodness and industry are, certainly with
children, happiness. Employ them early
in little matters. Children wish to be ac-
tive; cultivate and direct that activity. Be
neither too lavish nor too charry of praise;
show your pleasure by a look; be quick to
notice. Even if your income be two thou-
sand a year, make your daughter, as she
grows up, work as well as learn. Activity
of body means health, inactivity disease.
Moreover, we are not likely to sin by over
knowledge; parents will, or should be, care-
ful to elicit intelligence from their children.
Let them early, if possible, learn their own
position, and their duty towards others.
There is no better treatise for this than the
good old Catechism; it is very much wiser
and more advanced thatn Aristotle's Ethics
or any one else's ethics who has yet lived.
If only partly followed out, it will be sure
to make a good and tolerably happy man or
woman. We do not say wholly happy. It
will be as well for both father and mother
not to take too high a pitch about happi-
ness, this world is a world of trial, and is
very admirably—indeed, exquisitely—ar-
ranged for it. As the Greek epigram has it,
"God's mills move slowly, but he grinds
every one of us at last exceedingly small."
The beautiful illusion of youth must not be
spoilt, but youth itself need not believe that
a path of roses is the path of duty, and
that every hero is crowned and every
clever man makes a large fortune. The
brighter the hope, the darker the disap-
pointment. Men who wish their children
to be good and strong will take care to avoid
this.
	When the children come into the father's
hands—a charming time for a good man who
knows his duty, and who loves to direct
[Column 3]
clear and true young souls—his chief aim
should be to inculcate truth and industry.
He must not expect, much as a parent's
love may desire it, to find his children an-
gels. He may find some extraordinary
vices and faults even in well brought-up
and well-taught children. They are proba-
bly "herediaryisms"—on which some years
ago we wrote an essay. These will break
out. We now know a child aged nine who
has a mania for running away from home.
This child has been fondly treated and se-
verely and properly dealt with, but is not
yet cured. Lying is another habit, often at
the beginning merely exercise of a strong
imagination and wholly harmless. If not
noticed, nor allowed to excite wonder or ap-
plause or bursts of passionate anger, this
will die down. What such a child wants is
to excite attention. We must remember
that every child wishes naturally to play
the hero just as the man does. The great
secret is to teach him how to play it prop-
erly. Others have secretive and other vic-
sious habits, but these are the exception.
The greater number of boys and girls are
turned out fairly sound and honest, and fit
to carry on this work-a-day world. they
are creatures
			Not too bright and good	  "
		For human nature's daily food,
but they are nevertheless possible angels.
Let the father and mother be familiar and
true with their boys and girls, but by no
means foolishly intimate. Depend upon it
the commandment to "honor thy father and
thy mother" is an important one, and not
yet passed away, in spite of the French Rev-
olution; but to get this honor which child-
ren love to pay, the parents must deserve
it. If they are liars and hypocrites, the
children will be first to find them out. And
such parents must not blame the children.
The little people are only too ready to praise
their dog and brag of their doll; and do we
think that that small passion does not ex-
tend to their father and mother? A child's
ideal should be always one of its parents.
The present age is given to a foolish and lax
indulgence of children on the part of the
mothers and female relatives; and children's
parties, costume balls, and other degrading
and tiresome follies, as too often carried out,
abound. These are also often absurd shams,
wherewith the mothers and aunts exhibit
their own fondness, and the children are
bored to death. In New York the news-
papers report that the "shoddy" aristocrats
dress their little girls aged seven and nine
in jewelry worth thousands of dollars. A
true aristocracy, on the contrary, is noticea-
able for the plainess with which it dresses
its children and the order in which it keeps
them. There is, beside, too much fuss
made about our boys at the large schools;
and rich vulgarians trust their children with
too much money—but generally at public
schools the boys themselves correct this evil.
But evil it is. How can a father expect his
son to be simple and true when he has been
befooled and flattered by groom, tailor, and
tutor?
	When the great Seldon wrote in Greek
on the lintles of his doors, "Above all
things, Liberty," as his motto through life,
he might as well have written "Above all
things Truth," for truth is liberty, and the 
truth alone can make us free. Let the fa-
ther set an example of this to his children.
—Family Herald, England.


AN Indiana man sued a newspaper for
libel and dropped dead within a week. The
Detroit "Free Press" says these fellows will
learn something by and by.


