WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			DIVERSIONS.
	WOMEN do not talk more than men; they
are listened to more, that's all.
	IT is impossible to have the last word with
a chemist, because he always has a "retort."
	WE are told nothing was made in vain;
but how about a fashionable girl? Isn't she
maiden vain.
	WHEN were there only three vowels in
the alphabet? Before you and I were
thought of.
	SOME of the people of Leavenworth, Kan-
sas, are so lazy that they write the name o
the place, "11 worth"
	ONE of the old settlers of the Isles of
Shoals seeing the name of Psyche on the
hull of a yacht the other day, spelled it out
slowly, and then exclaimed, "Well, if that
ain't the durndest way to spell fish!"
	SENTIMENTAL arithmetic calculates thus:
Two glances make one look; two looks make
one sigh; four sighs make one waltz; three
waltzes make one palpitation; two palpita-
tions make one call; two calls make one at-
tention; two attentions make one fool (some-
times two); two fools make one flirtation;
one flirtation plus two bouquets equal to one
engagement, equal to one marriage.
	WHEN Mr. Wilberforce, the great anti-
slavery advocate, was once a candidate for
Parliamentary honors, his sister, an amiable
and witty young lady, offered the compli-
ment of a new gown to each of the wives of
those freeman who voted for her brother, on
which she was saluted with the cry of "Miss
Wilberforce forever!" when she pleasantly
observed, "I thank you, gentlemen, but I
cannot agree with you, for I really do not
wish to be Miss Wilberforce forever."
	A MINISTER was once preaching about
heaven, and, to show the absurdity of Swed-
enborg's ideas, drew a graphic picture of
the Swedengorgian heaven, with its beauti-
ful fields, fine horses, cows and pretty wo-
men, when, in the midst of his glowing de-
scription, one of the sisters went into rap-
tures, and shouted, "Glory, glory, glory!"
This so disconcerted the preacher that he
paused, when an elder cried out to the
shouter: "Hold on there, sister! you're
shouting over the wrong heaven!"
	IN Cooperstown they tell a story of an
English joker who once visited Fenimore
Cooper. One day, while Mr. Cooper was
dining with the Englishman, he poured out
some native wine—wine from grapes raised
in his own garden. Taking up a glass, and
looking through it with pride, Cooper re-
marked: Now Mr. Stebbens, I call this good,
honest wine. Yes, Mr. Cooper, I agree with
you. It is honest wine—poor but honest.
Mr. Cooper went on telling his "Injun" sto-
ries.
	SEVERAL years ago, when Miss Anna
Dickinson was about to lecture in a Western
town, the gentleman who was to introduce
her to the audience asked what was her sub-
ject, and she replied, "Jeanne d'Arc." He
rose with great gravity and remarked, "La-
dies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure of
presenting to you Miss Anna Dickinson,
who will be remembered as the ardent friend
of the late lamented Lincoln, and who will
instruct you this evening in regard to that
other illustrious man and noble patriot, John
Dark."
	"LANDLORD," said a transient guest at a
cross-road tavern, as he drew near the end
of his dinner, "won't you give me a little

[Column 2]
more pork to eat with this potato?" A lit-
tle later he said: "There was more pork
than I wanted; let me trouble you for a little
more poptato to eat with the pork." A short
time after: "Well, I declare, I've got some
more potato left, and it seems a pity to
leave it—just a small piece of pork, if you
please." It ran on so for some time. At
length the landlord stopped short in front of
his guest and remarked: "Look here, stran-
ger, 'tain't no use. I'm willing to do any-
thing in reason to make that pork and pota-
to come out even, but I've made up my
mind, the way you eat, it can't be did.
You're bound to lap over one or the other
every time. Now, just make up your mind
which you'd rather leave, and leave it and
quit. I've got enough pork and potatoes,
but if you keep on you'll burst."


