WOMAN'S RECORD
	Mrs. E. B. C. Washburn has given $100
to the Maine Industrial School for girls.

	MISS Harriet Hosmer is making at her
own expense a statue of "Emancipation"
for Fairmount Park.

	MRS. A. J. Dunniway of Portland, Oregon,
has recently given a successful course of lec-
tures in Walla Walla, Washington Terri-
tory.

	MADAME Theirs, who is over seventy
years old, is said to wear jaunty little hats
that would be youthful for a woman of
thirty.

	MMR. Jenny Lind Goldschmidt, and her
husband, will permanently reside in Weis-
baden, having accepted the posts of leading
professors at the Rhenish Academy of Mu-
sic.

	"IDA and Gabrielle, the Greeley sisters,
occasionally make their appearance in public
this season, for the first time since the death
of their illustrious father nearly two years
ago.

	MISS McHenry, of St. Stephen's Church,
Philadelphia, sets a noble example to women
who wish to be of real use in the world.
She has raised $200,000 for three church
homes, which care for 600 children.

	MISS Laura White, the famous mathema-
tician, who solved the problem so long in-
soluble by students, is now studying archi-
tecture and art. She graduated from Michi-
gan University, last summer, with high
honors.

	AN Exchange says: Mrs. President Grant
has been approached by the Woman's Suf-
frage Association, Woman's Congress, Wo-
man's Dress Reform Society, etc., again, and
her answer is: "I am very domestic myself
and have no inclination to change my mode
of living. I was a favored daughter, and
am an indulged wife. Mr. Grant says I have
my rights and his too!"

	ADELINE Cooper has assumed a self-im-
posed mission in Westminister, England.
Her problem is now to reclaim the intem-
perate. Her schemes to win men from
drink, her trouble in getting up a temper-
ance club, her labors among a humble class
of costermongers, her institution of a penny-
bank, her exertions in establishing a model
lodging-house, all testitfy to her philanthro-
py.

	PATTI, now known as Madame Caux,
gives freely where she takes a fancy. She
allows one young American girl $600 a year
to pursue her musical studies. She and her
husband live very happily together. The
marquis goes to the opera every night when
she sings, sits down in a retired corner, and
never takes his lorgnette off his wife while
she is on the stage. If there is anything in
her singing or acting which does not please
him, he tells her so when he goes behind
the scenes, and she does better next time.
She knows very well that what her marquis
tells her is for her good, while a critic might
suggest or cavil out of some unfriendly
feeling.


