WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		GOOD MANNERS.

	Written for and read before the 14th Ward
Literary Association, a few evenings pre-
vious to the death of the author.

	I have some where read that "Man's great
business is to improve his mind and govern
his manners." And again, "Mend your
manners and that will mend your fortune."
I do not call my subject "Etiguette," for
that is suggestive of much that is frivolous.
But good manners founded on the great law
of kindness embraced in the "Golden Rule,"
"Do unto others as you would have them do
unto you," is what I wish to advocate.
	This principle if given heed to will lead
us aright early and late, at home or abroad,
in public or in private, in the small group as
well as in the great assembly.  It will be a
sufficient guide in the intercourse of father
with son, husband with wife, teacher with
pupil, friend with friend, citizen with stran-
ger and so we might go on indefinitely.
	Where this law is observed in any house-
hold, we will see deference for age, com-
passion for the oppressed, sympathy for the
sick, forgiveness for the guilty penitent,
mercy for the erring, praise for the worthy
act.--In short, there can be no time so late
or so early, no place so public or private, no
station so exalted or obscure, no extreme so
great that the rays of THIS SUN may not
penetrate with genial light and warmth.
	If good manners founded upon this law
of which I have spoken, were prevalent
among the people, should we see such
marked disregard for the comfort of others
as we sometimes do in our public assemblies?
Should we find young people laughing and
talking either in the Tabernacles or in the
Ward meeting? Would young men and
children be rushing to secure the best seats,
while the Patriarch with frosted locks, the
grandma trembling with the weight of years,
or the mother with her sleeping infant in
her arms was standing in the aisle? Would we
see scores of people rising to leave when a
verse or two, and twenty words of prayer
will dismiss the meeting? Would the hal-
lowed quiet of the Sabbath evening be dis-
turbed by a rabble of children let loose for a
frolic? No, we should not be annoyed with
any of these things. I sometimes think it
would be well if our children were all re-
quired, like those of the Presbyterians, to
stay in the house and read some good book,
and thus preserve the peaceful spirit of the
Sacramental day.
	Sacramental! This brings to my mind,

[Column 2]
what I often see, young people partaking
with great levity of the emblems of our
Savior's death. Will not this levity affect
the minds of strangers as the desecration of
the Bible and the cross has the Japanese?
Will not the conduct of the children be re-
garded as an index to the character of the
parents? Who is the father that has reared
such sons! Who is the mother that has
trained such daughters? Will the son or
daughter who feared not God and His ser-
vants sufficiently to refrain from idle talk
and rude conduct in the great Tabernacle,
be found careful of the feelings of a mother
or sister at home?
	In the old church where my father's fami-
ly worshipped, in the days of my childhood,
there was on young lady who was to me a
perfect model of good behavior.  Her style
of dress was chaste yet elegant; her walk
energetic yet graceful; the modest air with
which she entered the door and passed along
the aisle was truly captivating. And then
she sat so still. I never saw her turn her
head to the right or to the left to gaze at
anybody—and as to whispering, I should as
soon have expected the cushions to speak
audibly as for this lovely girl to open her
lips in vain gossip in the house of God!
	You can very soon tell what sort of a
home a person has been reared in, or what
the teacher is in the school where he or she
has been educated. You may be sure when
you meet a woman who possesses a good
heart and cultivated head, that at the fire-
side where she was nurtured and in the
school-room where she was educated, good
manners received due attention.
