VOL. 8		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1874.		NO. 13.﻿


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	PRESIDENT GRANT thinks the Republican
party may recover their lost position by ju-
dicious proceedings. If the success of the
Democrats should be the cause of honest
and judicious governmental proceedings it
will have done great good.
	THE SUPREME court of the United States
has rendered a decision to the effect that
the legislative act, giving chancery and
common law jurisdiction to the probate
courts of this Territory, is inconsistent with
the organic act of the Territory which limi-
ted and defined the power of such courts,
and Is thereforo void. Another long con-
tested question settled.
	THE LADY to whom P. T. Barnum, Esq,
the great showman, was married in Dr.
Chapin’s Church, September 16th, is a
daughter of a retired Lancashire manufac-
turer, of whom Mr. Barnum has made
pleasant mention in his autobiography under
the head of an Enterprising Englishman.
This is Mr. John Fish, to whom and to
whose family Mr. Barnum has long been
known. The manager is now only taking
Mr. Greeley’s advice of years ago, when the
Museum was burned down, to go a fishing.
He has now caught a fish 30 years old, and
weighing about 140 pounds.
	THE LAKESIDE (Mich.) Register, of Oct.
7th, in a notice of Miss Susan B. Anthony’s
address at Muskegon, says:
	"Propositions were laid down and estab-
lished, arguments advanced and proven by
fact and illustration, and the American love
of justice and right so appealed to, that
probably not half a dozen persons left the
room without being convinced, at the close
of the meeting, that women are as much 
entitled as men to the elective franchise.
It is to be regretted that the canvass for Im-
partial Suraffge was not sooner begun and
more vigorously pressed. Had speeches in
its favor been made in every school district
of the State, the proposition would carry in
November by an overwhelming majority.
As it is, let the friends of the cause in this
city and county do all they can to roll up a
heavy vote on the 3rd day of November.”
 	IT'S NO sort of use to be in a hurry. We
never knew a fellow who was always in a
hurry, that wasn't always behindhand.
They are proverbial, all over the world, for
bringing nothing at all to pass. Hurry,
skurry, bluster, splatter—what does it all
amount to? Just nothing at all. If you
want to accomplish anything as it should be
done, you must go about it coolly, moder-
ately, faithfully. Hurrying, fretting, fum-
bling, spluttering, will do no good—not in
the least—but may do harm. Are great
works of great men done in a hurry? By
no means. They are the legitimate produce
of time and patience—the result of slow,
solid development. Nothing ought to be
done in a hurry. It is contrary to nature,
right, justice, and common sense. Your
man of hurry is no sort of character at all
worthy of imitation. Always in confusion,
loose at every point, unhinged and unjoint-
ed, blowing and puffing here and there, but
all ending in smoke, and never accomplish-

[Column 2]
ing anything to benefit himself or the
community.
	AN INTERESTING "habeas corpus" case was
tried before Judge Leland at Ottawa, Illnois,
lately. A boy was taken from the Orphan's
Home, Chicago, by John McCarthey, of Se-
rena, and kept a year and a half. The boy
seemed to like his home, and John and his
wife liked the boy. Finally the boy was
claimed by a German who either is or pre-
tends to be his father. A writ of "habeas
corpus" was sued out, and a hearing had on
the return. The pretended father and
mother swore that the boy was theirs, and
the boy had a very striking resemblance to
his pretended mother. An elder sister also
swore that the boy was her brother, Fred.
The boy, however, swore that neither the
man, woman nor girl is any of his. He said
his father died in Pennsylvania, and his
mother in Milwaukee, giving particulars,
and he did not wish to go back to Chicago,
as he said the claimants did not use him
well, and Judge Leland considered the
proofs insufficient on the part of the claim-
ants of the boy, and he went home with his
adopted father.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S RECORD.
	MRS. Rose Lathrop, an artist, Hawthorne's
youngest daughter, is about to illustrate a
new edition of Mrs. Horace Mann's "Flow-
er People."
	MISS Sarah C. Woolsey, the popular writer
for children, better known to the public by
the nom de plume of "Susan Coolidge,"
has lately returned from Europe.
	JENNY Lind, now Madame Goldschmidt,
has been singing again, not exactly in pub-
lic, but before a number of the Earl of Lev-
en's tenants, at Glenferness House, who had
been invited to hear her.
	HELEN Jackson Cabot, Boston; Miss Eu-
genie Homer, Roxbury; Miss Susan Mitch-
ell Monroe, Cambridge; Miss Harriet Jo-
sephine Williams, Boston, were the success-
ful applicants at the preliminary examina-
tions for women at Harvard College.
	FOUR ladies of position in London have
become "home decorative artists." They
undertake the whole furnishing, upholster-
ing, furniture, and all that tends to embel-
lish the interior of a dwelling. They are
said to be remarkably clever and very suc-
cessful. They have served a regular ap-
prenticeship and acquired a thorough know-
ledge of the business.
	ANNA E. Dickenson, who has had such
bad health during the past summer that
much of the time she has been confined to
her room, is again in the lecture field. She
has lately presented to the public, a lecture
on "Joan of Arc," which is said to surpass
all her former productions. She will proba-
bly go to Europe.
	CHARLOTTE Cushman bade farewell to
the New York stage on the 7th ult. It was
an imposing scene. There was a great
gathering of celebrities, a poem by R. H.
Stoddard, an address by William Cullen
Bryant, and a reply by Miss Cushman, in

[Column 2]
which she referred to her early struggles,
saying that her necessities taught her that
to succeed she must be in earnest.
	MISS Anna Snow was just getting up to
leave a train of cars at Newburyport, some
two weeks ago, having ridden from Boston,
when she found a roll of bills of large amount
in her lap, but how they came there she 
could not tell. She advertised them, and
on Friday a man proved them to be his,
though he was not on the train the day they
were found, and had never been at New-
buryport.
	MATILDA Fletcher, during the past year,
has lectured one hundred nights, has trav-
elled seven thousand miles, has written a
book upon "Practical Ethics" for schools
and families, and has invented, to illustrate
it, a beautiful chart, so that a child can com-
prehend with ease their mutual relations.
She has also prepared three new lectures,
two of which, "The Heart of a Man," and
"What Can You Do?" were given to the
public last winter and met with great popu-
larity. The other one, significantly styled
"The Ethics of Marriage," will be preson-
ted for the first time during the coming
season.


