	NOT FEMALE, BUT WOMAN.

	More than two years ago, the question
of the propriety or impropriety of the use
of the word Female, in connection with the
name of the Relief Society was argued
here; and as it was decided to be, not only
unnecessary but also inappropriate, it was
unanimously dropped by the Relief Socie-
ties of this Territory.  That some intelli-
gent women in other localities hold corres-
ponding opinions, is shown by the follow-
ing which appeared in a late number of the
"Woman's Journal."--Ed. W. E.
	"I wish to avail myself of the first oppor-
tunity to protest, through your columns,
against the frequent and unpardonable use,
even among Suffragists, of the word "fe-
male," to designate Woman.
	All over the country we find schools for
young women, bearing the chartered names
of "female" colleges or seminaries, and the
scholarly clergyman, in his announcements
of "female" colleges or seminaries, and the
scholarly clergyman, in his announcements
of "female" prayer meetings and the like,
is a favorite example for the unlettered
boor, who talks sneeringly of the 

[Column 2]
"females,"
who wish to vote and make themselves
equal to men.
	Recently I was looking over a newspaper,
which advocates the temperance cause and
favors Woman Suffrage, and noticed an item
in reference to the lecture course of
the town where the paper is published.
The editor deprecated the fact that no "fe-
male" had a place among the lecturers, and
urged that Mrs. Livermore be employed.
	If the lecture course had been composed
soley of women, and the editor had spoken
of employing some "male," George William
Curtis for instance, it would have been con-
sidered a breech of good taste. But the old
harem idea of women, as mere human ani-
mals, has so long pervaded society, that com-
paratively few feel the impropriety of thus
designating women. "Early as it was, I
met several 'females' upon the street," says
a gentleman on returning from his morning
walk, and were it not for the firm establish-
ment of this unpardonable American vul-
garism, one might suppose that old brindle,
a few motherly hens, and the favorite
pussy, had been indulging in a morning
stroll.
	I have been surprised at the frequent use
of this word in the columns of so able a
paper as the Independent. During the past
season many excellent editorials were pre-
sented in favor of Woman Suffrage, but the
authors almost invariably wrote "female"
Suffrage. The highly cultivated Goldwin
Smith also uses the term, and it fully ac-
cords with his estimate of our sex. But
the contributors of the Independent and
Woman's Journal surely ought to set a bet-
ter example to the rest of the world.
	The Bible is a model in this respect, the
word female being seldom used, and then
when no other word could be used in its
place.
	Some men go to the other extreme, and
speak of all women as "ladies," which is
often exceedingly ludicrous. While visit-
ing the Ohio penitentiary, several years ago,
a college president said, as our party was
about leaving, after attending chapel ser-
vice where nearly a thousand men were
seated in convicts' uniform:
	"We haven't seen any of their ladies yet,
but I suppose there are some here.
	I promptly responded:
	"There are doubtless a few women who
are prisoners, certainly no ladies."
	Last spring a zealous temperance man in-
quired my opinion of the "lady movement."
I was puzzled to know what he meant till
he added something about the temperance
work, and then I remarked: "Oh! you mean
the Woman's Crusade."
	It is quite fashionable for a traveler to
register himself and wife as "Mr. John
Smith and lady;" but "Mr. and Mrs. John
Smith" is certainly preferable in every re-
spect. In some parts of the country it seems
to be customary for a man to introduce his
wife as "my lady;" but how much more
sensible to say "my wife" or "Mrs. So and
so," which gives no opportunity for mis-
construction.
	While there are many occasions where it
seems more appropriate and polite to say
"lady" instead of "woman," yet the ten-
dency of the age is to make the latter more
popular.  At all events the term "female,"
so generally applied to the members of our
sex, should be regarded by all persons of
culture and refinement as an unpardonable
vulgarism.		JANE O. DEFOREST.
	Norwalk, Ohio.


"A SPLENDID ear but a very poor voice,"
as the organ-grinder said of the donkey.


