		SOMETHING TO LIVE FOR.

	I think myself fully authorized to say, there
never was a time since the creation of the
world, when men and women too, were so anx-
ious to moralize, reform, and remodel society
as at the present day. In fact some spirit or
other seems propelling the masses of mankind
towards a revolution, reformation or organiza-
tion of all things. They cry out against this
and that public evil, extravagance, sin and
wickedness, and each one seems to think that
his or her theory, if put in practice, would ef-
fect a radical change in the affairs of men; and
there are as many remedies offered for repair-
ing society as there are quack medicines for
benefiting the sick; and they are, altogether,
about as valueless and inappropriate. They
talk of reforming when many of the books
they write, the sermons they preach, the lec-
tures they give, political speeches, etc. are in
[Column 2]
themselves calculated to bring discord and
confusion in their wake.
	Those in particular who clamor loudest in
public, showing up people's faults in the most
glaring and objectionable light, are sowing the
seeds of disunion and misery, and inclining
those, who are full of hatred, malice and envy
to the most extreme measures. The principles
they advance are the ones most opposed to
peace and harmony; demoralizing rather than
elevating; they bring up the most hideous and
revolting phase of modern society; and one
would think to hear them lecture, or read their
works, that virtue in either man or woman, in
public or private life, had fled from the earth,
and that we were fast degenerating into a race
of animals destitute of any inherent superior-
ty or refinement, retrograding towards Dar-
winism.
	These extremists tell some very naked truths
perhaps, but who is benefited? and who that
possesses a particle of innate purity, does not
shrink from such indelicate language, such
daring defiance of public opinion, when coming
from a woman? and indeed, what have they to
offer as an antidote to this moral pestilence
pervading polite society?
	Although I entirely disagree with this class
of public lecturers, yet I believe there are those
who are really inspired with "zeal according to
knowledge;" desiring to elevate woman to a
higher position and a truer sphere than she has
filled in the past. Not by destroying men's
influence, or undermining their individual
character or standing in society; but helping to
do what men have assuredly failed to see was
for their own advantage—giving women a su-
perior education, such as their brothers enjoy,
and are considered rightfully entitled to, which
will give them a thorough understanding of
the government of their country, and according
to them also the right of suffrage, and to have
voice in choosing and nominating their rulers
equally with men; granting they have been
previously qualified. If, I say, they can be al-
lowed a few of these privileges, exclusive
hitherto, they may greatly benefit public so-
ciety and sentiment. I accede the point, that
men are calculated to lead out, and for this very
reason should be tender towards WOMAN,
thoughtful of all her needs instead of crushing
in her the germ of inherent womanhood im-
planted by the author of her being, for her own
individual development and happiness, and
not alone to give her grace and favor in the
sight of men.
	It strikes me forcibly, that girls have been
taught to train themselves more especially for
the attention of the other sex, than is consis-
tent with womanly dignity and self-respect.
From the first burst of incipient womanhood,
her education and training has this peculiar
bearing and tendency to attract some man who
suits her fancy, and who will be willing to re-
lieve her father and mother, or guardians of
her support, and keep her all the remainder of
her life. And she looks forward to this as the
crowning point of her earthly existence, and
neglectful of self-culture, self-training, moral,
physical, or mental development, looks out for
a husband, who will take her with all her
faults, (throwing a few "personal charms" in-
to the scale, by way of recompense) make
her his wife, his companion, his bosom
friend, supply her with delicacies and
luxuries, and crown her with his true and ex-
clusive earthly love. That few succeed in ob-
taining any real happiness, and that many
fail, we are witnesses daily. That women
should understand they were created for a no-
bler purpose than to attract the admiration of
men or gain a few years pleasure by being the


[Column 1]
favorite of fortune or the belle of some fash-
ionable circle, is certainly highly necessary.
And when women attain to some real genuine
worth, when they show themselves less mind-
ful of men's attention, more independent,
more dignified, are more desirous to diffuse
sunshine at home, than to win praises abroad,
then we shall expect men to honor, as well as
admire and appreciate them.
	I look forward to a day not far distant, when
women will be endowed with such superiority
of intellect and intelligence, possess so much
goodness, sincerity, and purity, that men will
award a voluntary tribute to their invaluable
worth. I grant you the case is widely differ-
erent now; but strive my sisters to live pure
lives. Cultivate in yourselves spiritual as well
as mental gifts; pray for the Holy Spirit to
help you to shun temptation. If you live such
lives; you cannot fail to have the approval of
your conscience; which is far better than hav-
ing the love of a good and true man without it.
But, believe me, the time is sure to come, when
we will be known, appreciated and loved, not
according to our manifold personal attractions,
but for real, genuine, sincerity and truthful-
ness.
	I know that custom, habit, education and
tradition, have made it natural to women, to
court and expect admiration from the other
sex, and if a woman deviates from this, she is
looked upon with suspicion, and set down
either as a fool, or oddity, or assuming an un-
real character. Yet there are women who, 
true to themselves, in disregard of the cus-
toms of society, dare to come and go alone,
and who will not accept this sentiment, fancy,
passion, or whatever name you choose to call
it by, this tribute to mere personal charms,
this counterfeit article, which passes current
for true affection. If we understood human
nature better, we should not be so often mis-
led in these things, and it would save tens of
thousands of heart-aches.
	Let us, as rational beings, make every exer-
tion in our power to elevate woman and in-
spire within her characteristics befitting her
future position as wife and mother; qualify
and educate her concerning the laws of life
and health, and her own bodily organization;
that there may be no lack of duty through
ignorance.
	Girls, it was to bring about a new order of
things, (a new phase of society if you will) to
establish laws and principles beneficial to the
advancement of the human family (through
revelation and commandment) that we moth-
ers have been willing to lay aside our precon-
ceived notions, training, and moral education
according to the Christian world, and lay all
we held dear upon the alter of our faith, that
OUR daughters might be nobler, purer, better
than ourselves, for these and similar blessings
we entered into the sacred covenant. Not for
pleasure, happiness or enjoyment here, not ex-
pecting it in many instances, but for some-
thing far nobler, grander and more endurable;
that our children might be BORN HEIRS to the
covenant and promise made to Abraham
through the Holy Priesthood. For this we
have endured persecution, have toiled and suf-
fered. Eor this we left our homes and came to
this barren wilderness; counting our afflictions
and sorrows as naught, because we knew our
true position and its future bearing upon our
posterity. And we must not falter now. We
must not shrink from further endurance be-
cause we have not succeeded according to our
most ardent and hopeful expectations. Let us
examine ourselves carefully and see whether
we have suffered any untoward circumstance
to have influence over us; let us look back over

[Column 2]
the web of life we have been weaving with
such fortitude and patience, and see if we
have not dropped here and there a thread, very
fine perhaps, scarcely perceptible to the un-
practised eye, but that have marred the beauty
of the work we expected would have been so
near perfect. Let us redouble our diligence,
faithfulness, and prayers, that we may fortify
ourselves against temptation and claim the
blessings we have been promised as a reward
for our sacrifices.
	Young ladies, you have every reason to be
proud of your mothers—do not let any FALSE
pride influence you in this matter. Your birth
is honorable whether the world acknowledges
it or not. Have no fears this is not our own
work, it is the work of God and He is abun-
dantly able to sustain it and He will; we know
in whom we believe, our anchor is sure and
steadfast if we endure unto the end. We have
had something to live for, which has sustained
us in the most trying and difficult places; we
are not destitute of natural feeling as many
think we are. It is because we possess some-
thing of more real value than the world, that
they cannot understand us; because we have
really and truly Something to live for.
							B. B.


