		WOMAN'S VOICE.

					For the EXPONENT.
	My dear Sisters, prompted by a desire to
do good, I wish, with the Lord's help, to
give you some little food for thought. To
begin with some of the Lord's own sayings,
(Book of Doctrine and Covenants, 150th
page,) "Against none is his wrath kindled,
save those who confess not his hand in all
things." Now you must acknowledge the
hand of God in all circumstances under
which you are placed, or come under con-
demnation, which latter you do not wish to
do, therefore pause, reflect, and strive to
bring yourselve's into subjection to the will
of God, and the holy principles he has re-
vealed for the salvation of the human fam-
ily. Uphold and sustain your husbands in
all things in the Lord, and ever keep the
feeling in your hearts, that their motives
and desires are pure, though they may
sometimes come short of doing their duty.
It involves on you to make their burdens
light instead of adding to them. What-
ever may transpire, let your words and ac-
tions be for the promotion of peace and good
will, thus gaining the approbation of your
Holy Parent and the increased love of him
who of all others you most desire to please.
"Like begets like," and if we give kindness
we will receive the same in return. If your
husbands should, in your eyes, sometimes
fail to come up to the mark of perfection
that you have laid out for them, consider
they are but mortal, and likely, as well
as yourselves to step aside from the
straight and narrow path. Would you re-
quire more of another than you are able to
perform? And besides, you might not at
all times be righteous judges of another's
actions; remember it is only when filled with
the spirit of God that any one is capable of
judging righteously, or of comprehending
things in their true light. Then how nec-
essary it is to be possessed of that spirit
continually, realizing that it is as much a
duty to be happy as to perform any other
good act. The most charitable people are
the happiest, and each one who has a desire
to live the life of a true saint must cultivate
that charity which will never think evil
when it is possible to do otherwise. There
are very few who really mean to do wrong.
The Poet says:
	"Time to me this truth hath taught—
		'Tis a truth that's worth revealing—
	More offend from want of thought,
		Than from any want of feeling."
	Sisters, ever keep this in mind, and it
will aid materially in bringing you to that
state of happiness and union to which the
saints are striving to attain.
						M. A. F.

