GREATNESS AND GOODNESS.

	Take goodness, with the average intel-
lectual power, and compare it with the
mere greatness of intellect and social stand-
ing, and it is far the nobler quality; and if
God should offer me one of them, I would
not hesitate which to choose. No, the great-
est intellect which God ever bestowed I
would not touch, were I bid to choose be-
tween that and the goodness of an average
woman; I would scorn it and say: Give it
to Lucifer; give me the better gift, When
I say goodness is greater than greatness, I
mean to say it gives a deeper and serener
joy in the private heart, joins men more
tenderly to one another and more earnestly
to God.  I honor intellect, reason and un-
derstanding; I wish we took ten times
more pains to cultivate them than we do. I
honor greatness of mind—great reason,
which intuitively sees truths, great laws,
and the like; great understanding, which
learns special laws and works in details; the
understanding that masters things for use
and beauty; that can marshal millions of
men into an organization that shall last for
centuries. I bow reverently before the
men of genius and sit gladly at their feet.
But the man who sees justice and does it,
who knows love and loves it, who has a great
faith and trusts in God, let him have a mind
quite inferior and culture quite a little, I
must yet honor and reverence that man far
more than he who has the greatest power
of intellect. I know that knowledge is
power, and reverence it; but justice is a
higher power, and love is a manlier power,
and religion is a diviner power; each great-
er than the migtiest mind.—Theodore  Par-
ker.


To be truly noble is not so hard as many
may imagine. It does not require the ac-
complishment of some great act, the win-
ning of world-wide fame or even a fierce
struggle with some huge monster. It is
but to love virtue and the truth and to keep
them as constant companions. The soul
thus governed is noble and god-like though
known but to God; and nothing else can
make it so, though the whole world should
speak its applause.


