			CONCLUDED.

	Fourth.—It must be easy to manage.
	The more we reduce the mere drudgery of
housekeeping, the higher will be Woman's
place in the home, because she will have
time to labor as the true housewife, instead
of the mere house slave; to use her forces
in the higher kind of service for which she
is, or ought to make herself, competent.
To arrive as near to this as we can, is one of
the points to study in building a house.
Before the parlor chandelier is thought of,
the kitchen range should be discussed; every
labor-saving device should be examined; all
the cook's implements arranged to her hand;
her fuel so placed that she need not lug it
up from the cellar; water should flow freely
in and out of her premises; her kitchen
should be not only handy, but comfortable
and cheerful, all of which will enable the mis-
tress to command a choice of help, or to do
her own work with less toil when left
alone.
	We begin with the kitchen, but of course
the principle applies all through the house,
and, taking still for our standard the maxi-
mum amount of home enjoyment with the
minimum amount of drudgery, we will go
to the dining-room. Suppose that instead
of costly china we resolve to use nothing
but plain white ware, which is pretty, light,
inexpensive, and easily matched when bro-
ken. Down drops one bundle of care from
the housewife's lot. Then suppose, instead
of precious silver, we decide to use only
plate, which is equally pretty, equally clean,
which no thief cares to steal, and which, if
lost, would cause no deep distress. Down
drops another portion of care from her load.
	Next we shall make a raid on the dining-
room carpet, which is certainly one of the
greatest inconsistencies in American house-
keeping. If we could divest ourselves of
tradition and association, we should cer-
tainly feel that the floor on which we tread,
and especially the floor over which we eat, is
not the place whereon to spread a dainty,
expensive, uncleansable fabric.
	But should we not study beauty as well
as comfort? Carpet furnishes a room, and
is in itself pretty!"

[Column 2]
	Yes; but the first essential to beauty is its
fitness to its object. We might carpet our
front steps and pavement with the loveliest
of Wilton's, but the effect will not be pleas-
ing; and on a floor the same unfitness exists
in a less degree.
	Carpets must be uncleanly, and therefore
unwholesome. A teacher, speaking of the
gymnastic exercises in a fashionable young
ladies' school, remarked to me that while
they were in motion the air was filled with
a fine perceptable dust, which must have
arisen chiefly from their clothing and bodies.
Of course much of this was such effete mat-
ter as ought, for the sake of health, to be
speedily got rid of, and of course the ordi-
nary daily movings to and fro, in a room set
afloat such particles, a large proportion of
which are received by the carpet, and only
partially removed by sweeping.
	No floor-covering is perfect that cannot be
easily washed; it may be that the fitting ar-
ticle does not exist; but if so, it is only be-
cause the need for it has not been gener-
ally realized. There is but one commodity
in Christendom (the servant girls) for which
demand does not create corresponding sup-
ply. There is a material made of cork
which seems to approach the idea. We are
using oilcloth, which I confess is not the
perfect substitute, but oh, what peace!
The dogs may lie down in the hall, and it
only needs sweeping, the children may drop
their bread at dinner, butter side down, and
it only needs wiping. In fact, both this and
the plated ware lead us to the sort of peace
we are promised, where neither moth nor
dust doth corrupt, nor thieves break through
and steal.
	Next, suppose we carry our iconoclasm
into the chambers, substituting for woolen
floor coverings, handsome oiled floors, and,
as in Europe, laying strips of carpeting
only where they are really needed; suppose
we discard the worse than useless bed hang-
ings, valances, pillow-shams, lamberquins,
toilet-draperies; in fine, every yard of
troublesome upholster's petticoating that
serves no honest purpose. A late traveler in
Japan says the first thing that struck him in
the Japanese house was the airiness and
roominess of the medium sized apartments,
resulting from the absence of cumbrous
furniture. Each article, however exquis-
itely finished, was light; the lounges were
of some elastic woven material; the floors
were simply matted. They call our style of
furnishing unclean.
	I admit that, in our climate, there are
about three months in the year when car-
pets and drapery give a sense of comfort, but
only the housekeeper knows at what an in-
crease of care. Again, I say, therefore,
down with upholstery! Down with horse-
hair stuffing, except for grandmother's arm-
chair; down with all the corpulent things
that stand about in parlors, and nobody sits
on if they can help it; down with satin
things that fray, and velvet things that
must be covered with other things, and dam-
ask curtains that must be protected by other
curtains, and exquisite door-mats that must
be flanked with other mats; down with all
the gorgeous, unwashable flimsy lace and
silk and gilt things that demand the whole
attention of an immortal soul to keep them
from dust and flies.
	Fifth—It should be beautiful.
	The money we have saved by our re-
trenchment we shall not hoard, for that
would not be true economy; but straightway
proceed to expend in other directions for
outer beauty of form and inner decoration.
I think the taste for gorgeousness, being
barbaric, must tend rather to decrease than


[Column 1]
increase the progress of civilization. The
more our minds are awakened to the beauty
of form and texture in natural objects, and
the grandeur of natural effects the less in
proportion will be our interest in the clum-
sier forms and coarse textures of artificial
objects and upholsterer's effects, except so
far as they succeed in imitating nature. The
richest velvet carpet one step inside our
door is poor and tawdry compared with the
carpet of greensward just one step outside.
The most elaborate achievement in worsted
embroidery would feel ashamed if set down
in a patch of June clover. The costliest
drapery of lace looped on this side of our
window-pane is raw indeed beside the
hangings of an elegant spider on the other
—festoonings every thread of which the
morning has strung with pearls. The most
magnificent gilded or even inlaid table, is
commonplace in the presence of a home-
made, bark-covered jardiniere of ferns.
	The other day, after making a certain call,
I remarked to a friend that I had been in a
very beautiful house; in attempting to de-
scribe it, however, the whole impression re-
solved itself into a remembrance of flowers
in a finely-shaped vase, of dried autumn
leaves against a softly tinted wall, and above
all of an exquisite climbing fern, with
which some artistic hand had adorned a pic-
ture frame. Not one ray of varnish or gilt
or any furniture shop glory could I recall.
Some furniture, however, we needs must
have, and therein we should give much at-
tention to forms and colors, and compara-
tively little to costiliness of texture; bet-
ter an ingrain carpet, rag carpet, no carpet,
with harmony of color, than all the upholstery
of Solomon's temple without it. Especially
should we study the tinting of our walls,
with reference to pictures. Again, the
floor must harmonize, not only with the
walls, but with the wood work—in regard
to which I believe it is now generally allowed
that the grain of the commonest wood is
more beautiful than paint. But we need
not linger in truisms; one point only I would
suggest in this connection; whether it is
not possible to go too far in our denuncia-
tions of cheap art, as found in plaster statu-
ary and chromos? I mean, of course, plas-
ter casts of good marbles, and copies of
good pictures; we would all rather own the
marble Apollo if we could afford it, but the
plaster gives us nearly the form and spirit
at a few dollars cost. And in pictures, take
the popular chromo called "Easter Morn-
ing," it is undeniably hard and raw when
compared with the original, and yet enough
remains of the artist's feeling to make it a
daily pleasure to its possessor. As to their
decreasing in value for being possessed by
others, that feeling is surely unworthy of
attention.
	Lastly—it must be homely.
	I know a room occupied by two little girls,
which is, so to speak, a home within a home,
so stored is it with their treasures and dec-
orated with their own little funny orna-
ments. I know another home within a
home, inhabited by two women, where al-
most every article has its pleasant associa-
tion and special name; there is a tall, old-
fashioned chest of drawers, and squeezed in
beside it, a narrow book-case, which two
are known as the mare and colt; there is a
rocking chair always called the Maria after
the giver; there are a shovel and tongs with
big, smooth, round heads, which answer to
the names of W. Penn and wife; there are
two warm wrappers in the wardrobe named
Comfort and Faithful; there is in the work-
basket a little egg-shaped box, made to hold
a spool and needle-book, made precious by

[Column 2]
the dents of two little teeth so many years
ago. Altogether it seems as if the furni-
ture in that home had received a personality
from long companionship with its owners,
which things brought staring fine from any
one shop could not possess. If this be a lit-
tle fanciful, it is surely true. But our own
home should not be like the one next door,
or the one round the corner, even if these
were better, but should express the charac-
ter of its especial inmates. And I would
choose for its living room the largest, sun-
niest room in the house; I would array it
with the most beautiful things our means
could afford; and there should be nothing
in it too good to be used; and if the family
comprised a man, wife and seven children,
every one of the nine should have a chance
to let his or her own life speak in it; the
piano should be there, and the work-basket,
and the writing-desk; and somewhere should
be a corner for Totty's baby-house, and
there should be a shelf in the book-case for
juvenile reading, and there must be plenty,
plenty of flowers. And that room should 
be the heart of that home, the place where
the new magazines are, the place to find
mother, the place for the open fire, the place
to make a circle for the family song or hymn
before bedtime, the place to long for when
at boarding-school, the place to keep a heart-
picture of when away in foreign lands; the
central jewel in the crown of social life, an
economical, well-managed, beautiful Ameri-
can Home.—Christian Union.


