DRAWING IN SCHOOLS.

	No one branch of study pursued in our
schools has greater claims than drawing as
far as the development of the faculties are
concerned, and no other one enters so
largely into all the practical concerns of life.
Among the many important reasons why
drawing should be introduced into all our
schools, we would enumerate the follow-
ing.
	First. It developes the powers of obser-
vation and trains the eye and hand. To
draw either from patterns or from Nature
requires accurate observation, and habits
are formed that lead to the careful exami-
nation of all objects, and to the perfect obe-
dience of the hand to the mandates of the
will. Drawing also largely tends to the de
velopment of the judgment concerning the
relations of objects; and it can be made an
important instrument in the development
and control of the imagination.
	Second. Through drawing, a great inter-
est in study may be excited. Little chil-
dren are always pleased with representing
the rude outlines of familiar objects, and
children of larger growth with more per-
fect work. The severest studies of the
school-room may be relieved by drawing
exercises, without in any way arresting the
process of continuous mental development.
Drawing also may be made a recreation
which will supersede those of a doubtful
moral character.


SELFISHNESS.—Live for some purpose in
the world. Always act your part well.
Conduct yourself so you shall be missed
with sorrow when you are gone. Multi-
tudes of our species are living in such a 
manner that they are not likely to be re-
membered after their disapperarance. They
leave behind them scarcely any traces of
their existence, and are forgotton almost as
though they had never been. They are,
while they live, like some pebble lying un-
observed among a million on the shore; and
when they die they are like the same peb-
ble cast into the sea, which just ruffles t
surface, sinks, and is forgotten, without be-
ing missed from the beach. They are nei-
ther regretted by the rich, wanted by the
poor, nor celebrated by the learned. Who
has been the better for their life? Whose
tears have they dried up? Whose wants
supplied?  Whose misery have they
healed? Who would unbar the gate of life
to readmit them to existence? What face
would greet them back again to our world
with a smile? Wretched unproductive
mode of existence! Selfishness is its own
curse; it is a starving vice. The man who
does no good gets none. He is like the
heath in the desert, neither yielding fruit
nor seeing when good cometh, a stunted,
dwarfish, miserable shrub.


To wipe all tears from off all faces is a
task too hard for mortals; but to alleviate
misfortunes is within the most limited pow-
er.
	A WEST Newbury (Mass.) farmer before
beginning to pick his apples went to George-
town and bought 250 barrels, thinking that
200 would contain his apples and fifty his
crop of onions. He went at his trees and
filled all his barrels with apples, bought an-
other hundred in Georgetown and filled
them, bought another hundred in Newbury-
port and filled them, and recently he was in
town to buy a hundred barrels more. He
told a friend that where he expected three
barrels on a tree he picked nearly seven.


