R. S. REPORTS.
		Third Ward, Salt Lake City,
					Nov. 9th, 1874.
	Dear Editor:—I take pleasure in giving
you a brief report of the Dedication of our
new Relief Society House, which took place
on the 3rd inst. President Daniel H. Wells
and Elder George Q. Cannon being present.
	The meeting was opened by singing, "I
saw a mighty angel fly:" The Dedicatory
Prayer was offered by Elder George Q. Can-
non: Singing, "How beautious are their
feet. Remarks were then made by Presi-
dent Daniel H. Wells. He spoke of the
great benefit that had been derived from
the labors of the Relief Societies, of their
zeal and faithfulness in the discharge of
their duties; spoke encouragingly of home
productions; thought we could produce
right here in our wards many articles that
were now being imported; also spoke on
the extravagance of dress, felt that much of
the means thus expended should be appro-
priated to the building of temples. He of-
fered a few words on Plural Marriage, said
it was a revelation from high Heaven and it
was for the exaltation of both man and
woman. He also spoke upon the impor-
tance of the education of our children.
	Elder George Q. Cannon felt that the time
was far spent, and would not speak many
minutes. He spoke upon the great field of
labor that lay before the sisters, of visiting
the different settlements, of the ignorance
he had seen in regard to cooking; thought
the sisters who understood that branch of
business could instruct those who did not,
for if we wish to have healthy bodies we
must have our food prepared in a proper
manner. He exhorted mothers to talk with
their sons and daughters and try to wield a


good influence over them, and great results
would follow. He spoke of the sons of He-
laman, the faith and confidence they had
in what their mother said; felt that we
could have noble sons and daughters if we
choose. He also spoke upon home product-
ions, named many articles that were being
imported that could be produced right here
at home of much better quality.
	Bishop Weiler concluded the addresses
by saying that the instructions which had
been given were good. He spoke in be-
half of the Society, told the costs of the
house, said it was the united energy of the
sisters that had built it, and that they had
asked but very little donations and it was
nearly paid for. He said it was built for
the general use of the Ward and communi-
ty; he thought the sisters should retrench
from so much labor and toil when they in-
vite company, things could be made as
pleasant and agreeable with a great deal
less work. He spoke of the Young Ladies'
Association in this Ward, of introducing
different kinds of labor that may throw out
inducements and make it more interesting
for them in meeting together.
	The choir sang "Praise ye the Lord."
Benediction by President D. H. Wells.
		Zurviah G. Eardley, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
