		PRESENT AND FUTURE.
		         
	I have not chosen this subject to write
upon because I feel competent to treat it
thoroughly or throw any additional light
upon it; but because it is a subject of great
interest to me, and by thinking, speaking,
and writing upon this, as upon all other sub-
jects, I know that the information I receive
will be more strongly impressed upon my
mind.
	The Present is a time which we all desire
should be as pleasant as possible, and it is
within the power of each person to make it
so. We in a great degree have the order-
ing of our lives, either for joy or sorrow.
We have also the power within ourselves to

[Column 2]
make more or less sunshine and happiness
for all who are within the circle of our in-
fluence. Although we may be placed in
very trying circumstances, and surrounded
by those who take delight in troubling and
perplexing, still we can have true inward
peace, by reliance upon the "Giver of every
good and perfect gift," and by acting in ac-
cordance with the teachings of the Holy
Spirit which is sure to bring satisfaction to
the soul. We can invariably find happiness
while listening to the dictates of a con-
science made sensitive under the influence
of the Spirit of God. We must not rely
upon pleasant surroundings and devoted
friends for enjoyment. But we must have
pure, contented spirits within before we
can secure happiness from without. True
happiness can only be enjoyed through the
knowledge that we are doing right and are
entitled to the approbation of our Heavenly
Father.
	Our present time should be devoted to
cultivation that our hearts may feel the in-
spiration which leads us on to duty and use-
fulness. That the desire of our whole souls
may be to do good, that we may each one
have an "Eye single to the Glory of God."
When we reflect upon how earnestly we de-
sire happiness during our short sojourn here
upon earth, is it not reasonable to think that
we will even more earnestly desire it in the
hereafter which is to be everlasting? And
when we think that our conduct in the
present is to determine our state in the Fu-
ture is it not enough to inspire us to put
forth greater exertions than we have ever
done before, and try to obtain a reward
worthy of the noblest ambition? There is
a record kept on high out of which we are
to be judged, and in which will be recorded
every action of our lives, every word that
we utter. And the account in the great
Future will stand as a witness either for or
against us. We may indulge in thoughts
that were they known to our fellow beings
would cause our cheeks to burn with shame.
But they are wafted on high, and are known
to God and his holy angels. In our work of
preparation we must school our feelings to
bear and forbear, to be tried to the utter-
most in the cause of righteousness, and for-
get not to acknowledge the hand of a just
God in all our afflictions. For against none
is the anger of the Lord kindled except
those who acknowledge not his hand in all
things. My young sisters, when we reflect
upon the many opportunities that we have
in the Present for cultivating our minds,
and when we think of the responsible po-
sitions that are awaiting us in the not far
distant Future—positions that we are ex-
pected to fill with honor, as wives and
mothers in Israel, should it not arouse us
from a state of indifference in which we re-
pose, thinking all will be well? It is our
duty to prepare ourselves for bringing forth
and cultivating the minds of those who are
to bear off the Kingdom of God triumph-
ant. It has been said that the children of
the saints are growing up in unbelief of the
principles of the Gospel. Let us examine
ourselves and see if we believe that this is
the true plan of salvation, and if it is not
satisfactory to us, if there are some princi-
ples that we cannot see clearly, let us not
cease to pray to God until he gives us a
testimony of the truth of the work in which
we are engaged. And then, having re-
ceived a testimony, let us live up to every
requirement, omitting no known duty. And
while doing so, we may have the assurance
that the angels are preparing for us crowns
of eternal salvation, the reward of our
present faithfulness.			L. T.


For the EXPONENT.
