BUILDING TEMPLES.

	If I could say anything to my sisters to ex-
hort them to live nearer the Lord than we have
been doing, I would gladly do so. For I feelt
that the time is far spent, that great events
are taking place, and that greater ones will come
to pass ere many are aware or prepared for
them. I recently attended a meeting at which
President B. Young Jun. spoke in accordance
with the times; and in my heart I rejoiced to
hear the words of truth spoken by the lips of
an Apostle of God. And I thank my Heavenly
Father for the light of the Gospel which I
have received.
	Oh! my sisters, we have need to become
more and more united in our efforts to assist
the elders in building up the Kingdom of God.
	What do we suppose the words which have
been spoken by the mouths of holy prophets,
concerning the establishment of God's King-
dom upon the earth, can mean, but that His
saints must establish it in His name, by His
authority and through His aid and blessings?
	The scriptures tell us that "the Lord will
come suddenly to his temple." Can we imag-
ine that he will come before the Temple is pre-
pared for him? Or can any of us have hopes
of being invited to enter into the Temple, and
hear the words of life uttered by the Savior and
Redeemer of the world, beholding His face and
witnessing the glory of His presence, if we
are not assisting to make it ready for the recep-
tion? We understand that the religion we
have embraced is a practical religion, that we
must WORK as well as watch and pray. If any


among us cannot, possibly, raise the amount of
fifty cents per month in cash, to be given for
the building of Temples, it is possible for most
of us to do something else, which, in many in-
stances will be quite as well. The men who
labor on the Temples must be clothed and fed.
Many of us in country places who, in these
"hard times," rarely have the spending of a
dollar in money, might save a few pounds of
butter, a few dozen eggs, knit a pair of good,
warm socks or pay in some other similar man-
ner our personal oblations. In some cases, a
sister might have a little stocking yarn that
she would use for that purpose, if she could get
time aside from the incessant care of her young,
helpless family. While her neighbor, perhaps,
would take the time to knit the socks if she
only had or could get the yarn. Let us be
neighborly, sisterly, meet and speak often one
to another, learn of each others conditions, and
under circumstances such as I have mentioned,
let one donate the material, the other the labor.
Here, again, we should find co-operation agree-
able and beneficial.
	But if, for the money to be paid in as a Tem-
ple offering would really be preferable, I think
in most instances, that by a little planning and
pains taking, we might manage to obtain the
money for such articles as I have named.
	It is necessary that we bestir ourselves if we
wish to be employed in the service of the Lord.
He does not and cannot patronize idle servants,
any more than business men and women can.
His work MUST be done, and he will employ
those who WILL do it. Not those who pray
for the Kingdom to be built up, but who be-
lieve it impossible for them to practically pro-
mote its interests, when the Lord in great wis-
dom and mercy, has given unto them powers
of mind and body whereby they might not
only assist His cause but win for themselves
crowns of immortal glory. It seems to me
that it should be in the power of every woman
in the Territory who feels a deep interest in the
work of Zion, and who is able to knit or spin
or wash dishes, or do any other kind of work,
to do something towards the building of Tem-
ples, and thus earn a right to the blessings
and privileges therein to be obtained.
	And furthermore, if our desires to do great
good are very intense, we have only to pray to
the Lord in earnestness and faith, for wisdom
and ability to accomplish the good we seek to
bring about; and then set to work, first with
our heads to devise the proper way--since our
hearts are already enlisted--and then with our
hands to do whatever must be done.
	By these simple means every woman in the
community who is possessed of any stability
whatever, might, without troubling her hus-
band about it, also subscribe for WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, and find time to read it too. And also
pay for the "Juvenile Instructor" for her chil-
dren until they were able to earn the subscrip-
tion money for themselves.		M. G. H.


