READING MADNESS; 
	We are again reminded of the dangers
which surround us all, even in pursuit of
the most innocent amusements and the
plainest duties. For instance, reading is
both an amusement and duty to those who
can reach books, and not to read the current
news in the papers is almost looked upon as
criminal at this day in this type-enlightened
country. And yet reading is sometimes
pernicious even to healthy minds, if the
reader absorbs and digests the matter with
avidity and thoroughness. There are sev-
eral instances of students reading them-
selves into every symptom of disease which
elicited their intense interest. Somebody
said to an old apostle that much learning
had made him mad. Whether this was the
fact or not, we know that many persons have
read themselves into incurable insanity, and
it is not at all surprising that religious read-
ing has made many monomaniacs and pious
fanatic.s One curious case of pernicious
reading is that of a doctor, who, though he
never touched intoxicating drinks. read
himself into a clear case of delirium tremens
by intense study of those “jim-jams.” He
actually got the name of being a habitual
drunkard, his practice fell off, and it was
with great difficulty he was finally cured.
Symptoms of consumption and gout and
other diseases have been produced in like
manner, which were almost unmanageable,
and came near proving fatal. The last case
of this character is that of a prominent citi-
zen of Carrollton, La., who read himself in-
to the most violent symptoms of hydropho-
bia. He became intensely interested in the
late newspaper accounts of that disease, and
read everything he could reach on the sub-
ject. It is unnecessary to describe the symp-
toms he developed. They were sufficiently
severe to show that he was in real agony,
and terrible enough to alarm all his friends.
The sight of a dog or of water threw him
into violent convulsions. He loathed food
and drink, and became so violent that it
was necessary four or five men should be-
come his constant watchers day and night.
During his spasms he frothed at the mouth,
and rolled over the floor and yelped like a
dog. Under careful medical treatment he
is likely to recover his wonted heath, but it
 will be a long time before his friends can
trust him to see a dog. This case, which
seems to be well authenticated—though the
name is withheld—is in harmony with the
theory advanced by some that hydrophobia
in man is in nearly every case the result of
a diseased imagination.—St Louis Republi-
can.


A BOARDING house in Greensburg, Ind.,
advertises to furnish “gentlemen with pleas-
ant and comfortable rooms, also one or two
gentlemen with wives.”


