WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MISS Chandler, of London, has established
a convalescent hospital which is said to be
doing a vast amount of good.
	AN English lady by the name of Octavia
Hill, has taken upon herself the burden of
improving some of the dwellings of the
poor.
	MRS. Harriet Moulton, of Unity, 80 years
old, set her clothing on fire while smoking
in bed, a few nights ago, and was fatally
burned.	A FEW days since, two young ladies died
in Fairhaven, Massachusetts, who were en-
gaged to be married to two young men who
were eousins. Their wedding dresses w ere
their shrouds.
	MADAM Patti-Caux lately sung on a Par-
isian stage for the benefit of the Alsace-
Lorrainers and evolved seven thousand dol-
lars for the performance.
	MRS. Scott-Siddons, lately home from
Europe, is going to visit China, Japan, and
places still more distant; being absent from
America for about two years.
	AN English paper announces that "sev-
eral of the loveliest ladies in the realm as-
sembled at Wimbledon last week, to see
the shooting of their husbands."
	MISS Helen Patterson, an artist who has
done good work for the "Graphic" and the
Cornhill Magazine, is said to be about to
marry the poet Allingham, who has become
the successor of Froude, in editing Frazer's
Magazine.
	A MISSISSIPPI girl just out of school
hired a few negroes last season and under-
took to carry on a farm at her homestead.
The result at the end of the year was eight
banks of potatoes, 600 bushels of corn and
$960 in cash from the sale of cotton after all
expenses were paid.
	MRS. Julia Ward Howe lectures on the
question "Is Polite Society Polite? and an-
swers it, the papers say, in a satisfactory
manner to an intelligent audience of Bosto-
nians. But we have not learned whether
she proves the answer to be yes or no.


COURTING.—"Courting is about half sci-
ence," says Josh Billings. "The nature in
it is simple energy, You must begin slow,
and bye and bye it will be best to agitate
things. Wimmen never surrender, nor are
they ever exactly won, but rather captured.
They 'fight it out on this line.' There are
wimmen who are as easy to court as lint.
'Luv at first sight' is like eating honey. It
duz seem as though you could never get
enuff of it. This kind of luv is apt to make
blunders, and is hard to back out of as well,
but there ain't any such thing az pure ma-
thematicks in courting. If it is all nature,
it is too innocent for earth, and if it is all
science, it is too much of a job. Perhaps
the best way to court is to begin without
much of any plan where you are going to
fetch up, and let the thing kind of worry
along kareless, like throwing stones into a
mill-pond. You will find one thing strictly
true—the more advice you undertake to
follow, the less amount of good courting you
will do.


I AM in favour ov the utmost possible lib-
erty, both for the soul & boddy, but i never
expekt to see human natur, well broke
enuff to drive without enny bits!—Billings.


