SALT LAKE CITY, Nov. 23rd, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT: —
	The following incident came under my
observation, and is, I think, worthy of note.
I place it at your disposal.  As my sister,
Mrs. Melissa Kimball, was returning from
this city to her home in Parley’s Park, she
was thrown in company with a lady, appar-
ently of very respectable family, also very
quiet, intelligent and affable. She inquired,
on finding that Mrs. K. lived in the Park,
if she knew of a man named Pickard in
that vicinity. My sister replied that she
had known him for some time, and he was
in a most pitiable condition.  Between
drink and Spiritualism, he was at times quite
deranged. The lady said he was an old
friend of hers, of very respectable parents,
had a wife and son who were very anxious
about him; that his brothers had written
him repeatedly but at last concluded he was
dead, as they could get no word from him.
The lady, who had traced him to this coun-
try, then confessed that she was his wife
and had come to try and save him. She
had sold the comfortable home which she
had provided herself with and brought her
son, a six month old babe at the time her
husband came West, now a lad fourteen
years old.
	She found the man without much difficul-
ty in a saloon in Park City. He was asked
if he knew the lady and said no he had
never seen her. She then spoke her own
name, which seemed to awaken him as if
from a dream; and he exclaimed, "My God!
It is my wife—and she has come to [-]ve
me!”
	What a sight he had become, so low, so
degraded and filthy, he was loathsome!
	She, after much urging, prevailed on him
to accompany her to this city where she had
left their son. He stated that shortly after
he came to this country some one told him
his wife was not true to him and that had
driven him to drink and all that his broth-
ers could write him did not convince him
that this was false. His wife not wishing
the son to see him in this state, gave him
money to get him a suit of clothes, which
he took and went—to a saloon for drink.
She succeeded at last, however, in getting
him to leave the saloon and get him some
clothing. She then presented his son to
him. The scene was a most touching one.
One moment he would look at his wife and
son, the next upbraid himself as unfit to
live. He at last consented to accompany
them away from here to some place where
his depravity was not known and commence
life anew. Who can say there is no stability
in Woman? Where can you find the man
that would cling to his wife through “Good
and Evil report,” would cherish her mem-
ory through fourteen long years, hunt her
up, lift her from the lowest state of degra-
dation and try to save her? The rule is if
Woman sins put her down and trample on
her! But may we live to see this the ex-
ception, not the rule. 	 Yours Truly,
