TREATMENT OF THE AGED.

	At a lecture in London, Mr. Habershon,
referring to the case of an old man, re-
marked:—"The man died simply from the
shock produced by coming out into the cold
and fog, which, though, only an inconveni-
ence to us, was sufficient to lead to a fatal
result on one whose circulation had become
enfeebled, and whose vital force had so
nearly lost its power. I am reminded, by
this case, of an instance of longevity com-
municated to me by a gentleman the other
day. His mother, who has died at the age
of one hundred and two, during the win-
ter months 'had refused to get up, saying
she was only warm in bed.' I have no
doubt that it was owing to this uniform,
warm temperament that she lived so long;
and I mention the instance as a recomenda-
tion for you, when you have to prescribe for
old people, to advise that they be kept
warm. You should also look carefully after
their nourishment. Old people cannot eat
large meals; therefore they must take them
more frequently. Many old people will
wake up about three or four o'clock in the
morning. It is a good plan that they have
some nourishment then; otherwise the in-
terval between the night and morning
meals is too long for declining strength. It
is by care in such minutiae that we may
prolong the life of the aged."


THE NEED OF REPOSE.—"Repose," says
a writer, "is the secret of power in persons,
pictures, statues, architecture, books and
nature, as if it were a means of retaining as
well as disclosing life, and health demands
a frequent pause to restore the balance of
the system and keep up perfect circulations.
The night if spent in healthy sleep, after
proper evening hours, reduces the world's
chaos and we are new every morning. Who
does not know the magic of a brief pause
in the midst of the worst confusion? A
calm of five minutes will invite back our
vagrant ideas and powers. So the home
should be like a hush and a lulaby in this
headlong, whirling, noisy, furious, and dis-
tracted world of the ninteenth century—
a nook apart from the thoroughfares—a grot
or bower under the sky, where the beauti-
ful spirits of the air will hover and dance.
Its atmosphere should be a little orienta
and cheering, as if exhaled from poppies
and balsams."


THE Peoria "Review" says that a lady
teacher in one of the public schools was
amazed the other day by seeing a perfect
forest of juvenile hands fly up in the air
and shake and gesticulate with violent agi-
tation. "What do you want?" querried the
puzzled instructor. Chorus.—"Yer hair's
falling off."


A YOUNG housekeeper being applied to
for a situation by a servant girl, she asked:
—"Why did you leave your last place?"
"Why, you see ma'am." replied the girl, "I
was too good-looking and when I opened
the door the gentlemen took me for the
missis."


