		A CHRISTMAS DIALOGUE.

	Mrs. Goodey. Good morning Mrs. Prac-
tical.
	Mrs. Practical. Good morning Mrs.
Goodey, you have been shopping I see.
	Mrs. G. Yes, getting a few things for
Christmas; the children are all looking for
"Santa Clause" and I thought I would get a
few things to please them. You have been
on the same errand?
	Mrs. P. Yes, but there are so many
things needed that I have not spent my
money for toys, but made it the occasion to
present them with' new hats and dresses.
I thought it would make them just as hap-
py, and serve a better purpose than buying
useless things.
	Mrs. G. I am not quite sure that I coin-
cide with your view, Mrs. Practical. Dress-
es and hats are useful things, and very ap-
propriate Christmas presents, but I think a
little money spent in trifles, if we can af-
ford it is not altogether thrown away. It
affords the little ones a great deal of pleas-
ure, and their merry faces on Christmas
morning well repay us tor the pains we
have taken to make them happy.
	Mrs. P. Oh I always make a practice of
having something to please the children,
but times are hard and money scarce, and I
think things of some practical value will
make them just as happy, and serve a bet-
ter purpose.
	Mrs. G. That may be so, but little hands
will be busy, and little feet are turning in
search of something to employ them and
if they do not find it indoors they are apt to
turn out for it. I believe in making home
happy, it should be the brightest and most
cheerful place; if not our children are liable
to seek companionship among those who
have more indulgent parents.
	Mrs. P. I believe in indulging children
in everything that I consider for their best
good. I try hard to clothe and educate them
suitably, and fit them for a useful sphere in
life. I believe there is no one who thinks
more of her children or tries harder to
make them comfortable and happy, but I do
not think that toys and sweetmeats conduce
to their health or assist in making them
better men and women.
	Mrs. G. As far as health is concerned,
I do not think sweetmeats are of any of especial
benefit; but the young appetite craves such
things and under present circumstances it is
difficult to withhold them. I think it as
well for parents to furnish a moderate
amount as for children to take other means
of procuring them, but children are apt to
attach great importance to picture-books
and playthings brought to them at Christ-
mas time; and I think the care of such
things often teach them lessons that prove
beneficial to them in after life.
	Mrs. P. I try to teach my children hab-
its of industry, and as fast as they are old
enough to understand their import I take
pleasure in supplying them with good and
[Column 2]
useful books, and instructing them in such
things as will be for their future benefit.
	Mrs. G. I do not think that young minds
are satisfied with matters of practical impor-
tance. They are always searching for
amusement and if we do not give them
something of their own they are apt to soil
or destroy useful articles or things of more
value than those we would purchase for
them, or if not allowed amusement at
home they are liable to seek for it abroad.
	Mrs. P. I consider out-door exercise es-
sential to a good constitution, and the devel-
opment of a vigorous intellect; it makes
our boys more manly and our daughters
strong and healthy.
	Mrs. G. A certain portion of out-door ex-
ercise is useful, but when our children are
out from under our observation they are
liable to find unprincipled associates who
fill their minds with profitless information,
and lead them into mischief or danger. I
do not know of anything so deleterious to
growing intelligence as promiscous inter-
course with profane and unprincipled com-
panions, and I think the habits and associa-
tion of childhood are apt to have more or
less influence over them for good or for
evil in after life.
	Mrs. P. True! Mrs. Goodey, I feel to re-
alize the force of your argument. The as-
sociations found in the streets of our large
cities are certainly not of a high moral
character, children, whose plastic minds are
ever ready to receive impressions from
those in whose society they are thrown. It
grieves me to see the manners, and morals
at present existing among those who should
be patterns of propriety and shining lights
in the social circle.
	Mrs. G. I think many of us are too
careless in our own homes with regards to
the influence that is thrown around our
children. Mothers should ever cultivate a
love of beauty and refinement, and strive
to counteract the grosser influence of out-
door life. Parents shonld remember that
children look to them as the highest type of
excellence. I fear too many parents are in
the habit of using rough and even profane
language in their family intercourse; a prac-
tice which especially in mothers cannot be
too severely censured. A mother has the
first impressions to make in training the
young minds, and if those impressions are
low and rough, what lessons in after life can
eradicate them; unless, indeed, they are
to despise those whom nature calls them to
reverence and respect?
	Mrs. P. That is certainly a crying evil
among us, and when profanity and disre-
spect are permitted at home, we need not
be surprised that it spreads like an ulcer
and contaminates wherever it goes. I
think myself that children carry with them
through life more or less the influence of
their daily intercourse, and as they will
seek childish amusement it is better, per-
haps to spend a little time, and means in
pleasing their tastes than to permit them to
go where they are in danger of contamina-
ting their young minds. I shall reflect on
your suggestions, Mrs. Goodey, and perhaps
profit by them. Good day.
