HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Benzine and common clay will clean marble.
	Castor oil is an excellent thing to soften leath-
er.
	Lemon Jelly.—Two cups of sugar; yolks of
three eggs; juice of two lemons. Cook till thick
ened by setting in boiling water, then add the well-
beaten whites of three eggs; spread between the
layers of the cake, and trim off the rough edges.
	Wafer.—One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of
butter, a pinch of salt; mix with milk into a dough,
then roll out in very thin circles. Bake in pans,
quickly. One quart of flour makes twenty-five 
wafers.
	Dandruff.—some one asks, what will remove
and prevent dandruff from coming in a lady's head?
Take a little borax added to a pint of rain water,
and wash the head occasionally with it. Add a 
little borax or cooking soda to rain water when
you wash your hair brushes. It cleanses them
nicely.
	An excellent cement, we read, may be made
from rice flour. It is only necessary to mix the
rice flour intimately with cold water and gently
simmer it over a fire, when it readily forms a deli-
cate and durable cement. When made of the con-
sistency of plaster, clay models, busts, bas relievos,
etc., may be formed from it.
	Paste that will Stick.—Take 4 pounds of fine
wheat flour and make a batter with cold water;
take out all lumps, then add boiling water till you
have almost a pailful. This is a good paper-
hanger's paste. To make it stick to painted walls,
add 1 ounce of finely pulverized resin for each gal-
lon of paste, and boil it; when too thick, add more
water.
	Sugar for Preserving.—Good brown sugar is the
sweetest, especially much sweeter than the so-
called granulated white sugar which contains much
water of crystalization; often a certain amount of
free moisture of brown sugar is due to syrup of
molasses more than water. The finely pow-
dered white sugar made from loaf sugar, is much
sweeter than the granulated white sugar, and goes
almost as far in sweetening as the brown qualities
do. Loaf sugar is the best.
	Erasive Soap.—Here is an excellent recipe for
making genuine crasive soap that will remove
grease and stain from clothing: Two pounds of 
good Castile soap, half a pound of carbonate of


potash, disolved in half a pint of hot water.
Cut the soap with the potash until it is thick
enough to mould in cakes; also add alcohol, half
an ounce; camphor, half an ounce, hartshorn, half an
ounce; color with half an ounce of pulverized 
charcoal.
	Excellent Glue.—A foreign chemist asserts that
an excellent glue may be prepared as follows:—
Four parts, by weight, of glue are soaked for sev-
eral hours in fifteen parts of water, and then slowly
warmed until a perfectly clear solution is formed.
This solution is then diluted with sixty-five parts
of boiling water, and thoroughly stirred. In the
meantime thirty parts of starch are stirred into
200 parts of cold water, so as to form a thin, milky
liquid, free from lumps. Into this is poured the
solution of glue, stirring continually and heating.
When cold, ten drops of carbolic acid are added.
The paste made in this way is said to possess ex-
traordinary adhesive power, joining leather, paper,
pasteboard, &c. By keeping it in closed vessels,
so that the water cannot evaporate, it may be pre-
served for years. Where no great strength is de-
sired, ordinary flour or starch paste is used, a little
carbolic acid being added to prevent souring.


