WOMAN’S  EXP0NENT.


[Column 1]
				For the EXPONENT.
CULTURE NECESSARY TO IMPROVE-
				MENT.

	Nature has been lavish in her gifts to
man, but labor has been and is a condition
of their enjoyment, improvement and per-
petuity. Certain races of men seem to
have noticed these facts and to have taken
advantage of them; had they not done so
there would have been little development;
they recognized the force of the truism "in
the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread,"
which is written in the book of Nature as well
as in the Bible. Labor—culture, exercised by
man in the earliest ages benefits us to-
day.
	There is no natural wheat worth having.
Nature supplies the seeds from which it
can and without which it cannot be made.
Man cannot make an atom of matter neither
can he destroy; but he can make a thing that
is worth nothing worth something, this is
creation. He can change the direction of
the natural forces and use them for his own
advantage. The wheat we prize so greatly
is the result of labor expanded for many
successive generations, care in selecting,
improving, nourishing, the "flesh-forming"
and "heat-giving" properties, the vitalizing
forces of our wheat, represent the energies
of thousands of our race who wrought for
our convenience, and made our existence
possible in such multitudes. The same may
be said of our peaches, pears, cherries; of
the plump, pulpy delicious edible fruits,
they have been handed down as part of our
inheritance from man; the wild fruits are of
small value. The double flowers and floral
beauties of our gardens that we so highly
prize are man's work. Nature does her
work adequately, elegantly, but frugally,
the wild flowers of the prairies, the butter-
cup, daisies of the meadows and the lilly of
the vallies are evidences. Nearly all the
temporal blessings we enjoy are the out-
flow of accumulations, that have resulted
from culture in the distant past, we are in-
debted for them to man.
	That the same general principles of im-
provement, and thus of adding to value by
culture are understood we have evidence of
in the care which is taken in raising stock
as well as in agricultural and kindred opera-
tions. But there does not appear to be as
much care in raising men, nor as clear a
conception of the importance of culture to
our race; the greatest care is taken in breed-
ing, and, by attention to natural laws ani-
mals are raised with certainty of the most
desirable kinds. Nature, in her gifts, has
not shut out man from similar advantages
of descent and culture, wherein to be suc-
cessful must be natural, that is in harmony
with the laws of our being. We may be
thankful that by a happy train of circum-
stances a more perfect race of men is being
developed in these mountains, simply be-
cause there is more perfect obedience to the
natural laws.
	The gathering together of a people that
will improve by living in harmony with the
laws of our being is a requirement of the
age; the strongest races live the longest,
man is dwindling in stature and shortening
his life because he loses strength by living
in violation of the fundamental laws upon
the observance of which existence is secured
to him.
	What is wanting to secure to man the
highest attainable excellence, the maximum
of vitality and intelligence, is culture, not
of a part but of the whole being. What
this being man is capable of we may learn
from the Key to Theology: "An intelli-
[Column 2]
gent being, in the image of God, possesses
every organ, attribute, sense, sympathy, af-
fection, will, wisdom, love, power and gift,
which is possessed by God himself. But
these are possessed by man, in his rudi-
mental state, in a subordinate sense of the
word. Or in other words, these attributes
are in embryo, and are to be gradually de-
veloped. They resemble a bud—a germ,
which gradually develops into bloom, and
then, by progress, produces the mature
fruit, after its own kind." So that, as the
wheat has attained to its present excellence
by culture man can attain to a fulness of
perfection.
	It is well for us that we are in the school
where we realize that culture is necessary
to our improvement—self-culture especially.
It teaches us to know ourselves and thus to
know others. We do not look with ill-feel-
ing or contempt upon those who have not
attained to this knowledge. Our pride does
not make us repulsive, nor vanity cause us
to be survile to others. It enables us to
stand erect under the chilling blasts of ad-
versity, and beneath the sunshine of pros-
perity. If we are angry we sin not; or if
we incautiously infringe upon anothers
rights we ask forgiveness. And we obtain
it too, from those who have made them-
selves the subject of this culture.
	If this does not raise us in the estimation
of those outside the moral discipline indi-
cated it improves us, and with ages that
succeed us it will improve the race. We
shall thus leave the world better than we
found it, the rich legacy inherited by us
from man made richer by our labors will be
bequeathed to and held in prosperity by
man.


