		THE CLOSING YEAR.

	A few more days, and eighteen hundred and
seventy-four will be counted with the hoary
past, and for a little season we shall date our
writings '75. Then, just ahead, in native and
in manufactured glory, will stand our nation's
grand Centennial. But we need not seek to
hasten the time, or to throw aside an hour un-
spent. There is enough to do to prepare for the
countless changes as they follow each other in
rapid succession.
	As this issue of the EXPONENT will be the
last until the old year's title will be exchanged
for the new, it seems timely for us to make
here, a slight retrospection of some of the
events, which have to a great extent, occupied
personal as well as public attention during the
twelve months past.
	Like its late predecessors, the year which
now draws to a close, has been rife with ca-
lamitous incidents. Of "wars and commo-
tions," of "blood and fire," of "earthquakes
famines and pestiliences" there has certainly
been no lack of accounts placed in the world's
great record. But of all the afflictions where
with America's children have been afflicted,
perhaps the sudden stroke of the unforseen
and uncontrovertible hand of DEATH has been
the greatest cause of almost general "lamenta-
tion, weeping and great mourning." Not a
neighborhood, we venture to assert, but has
felt the gloomy presence of that peace destroy-
ing messenger, who marks for his selections oft
the fairest flowers, the most choice fruits, and
best and finest grain; scarcely a home but has
been either directly or indirectly smitten.
	Within the immediate circles of our dear
personal friends and intimate acquaintances,
we recall to mind the sad face and sorrowing
tones of more than one newly made widow,
and of too many bereaved and anguished moth-
ers. If ever true heroism was displayed by
woman, we have been witness to it in some of
these instances, within the last six months.
	We fully understand that there is no terror
in death to the pure and good; nor is it when
such depart, that their remaining friends de-
plore the fate of the dearly cherished ones who
pass away from mortal toll and care. But the
realizing sense of the separation which must
continue for an unknown length of time be-
tween a human heart and its best earthly idol,
to which death has laid claim, be it parent,
[Column 2]
﻿brother or sister, companion or child, can only
be comprehended by those who have passed
through the trying ordeal. What proof of di-
vine trust in an alwise and all merciful God,
can surpass that which shines forth in the calm
resignation and unswerving fortitude with
which some of our noble heroines of the pre-
sent period bear these great griefs? But there
is also a consolation to such sufferers, sacred
and sweet, which no other sorrow can know.
There is a beautiful golden side to even this
dark picture. If while her heart's treasures,
her best gifts from God remain with her in the
flesh, liable like her to fall into the snares of
the tempter and to lose at last the great reward
of faithfulness, woman has something to live
and labor for—how much more, when her
cherished idol has been freed from mortality
with all its burdens, in order that she may be
worthy to claim her own when her mission
shall have been also accomplished!
	The defeat of the Republicans and the tri-
umphant uprising of the Democracy through-
out the United States will stand as THE event
by which 1874 will be made memorable in
American history.
	That the negroes are arming themselves and
opening war with the whites is an occurrence
which has been long looked for, a prediction the
fulfillment of which this year see the begin-
ning.
	In the midst of the Latter-day Saints, a New
Order of things has been partially established
during the present year; although the per-
ceptible change may be slight, yet it may be
said that the laying of one foundation stone at
least has been accomplished.
	In bidding goodbye to "the wise old year,"
we would take occasion to thank our friends for
their kind patronage, and say to them, "be not
weary in well doing," nor discouraged because 
of dull times or dark prospects—we don’t mean
to be. And as Christmas will be spent before
we greet our friends again, we wish them all
a merry one.


