PRACTICAL WOMAN’S RIGHTS.

	We have found a woman’s rights woman
in a practical sense, one who puts into prac-
tice the theories of the strong-minded, with
a strong purpose. We refer to Mrs. Brower
of Ottawa. Left a widow with two small
children on her hands, she at once concluded,
to take care of them and herself. She en-
gaged in selling musical instruments and in
the short space of four years has estab-
lished a business of twenty thousand dollars
a year. She has never allowed a note to go
to protest or failed to pay promptly all her
liabilities. She employs four men with
teams and wagons which she owns, to sell
instruments. She has lately added sewing
machines to her stock. She buys in all cas-
es for cash, and sells nothing on commission.
Her business now affords a profit of $4,000
per year above expenses. Here is a woman
of whom nerveless, worthless, silly simper-
ing women, may, if they will, learn very
valuable lessons in self-reliance and self-
support.—“Earlville Transcript”


[Column 1]	
		﻿OUR NEW YEAR’S STORY.
	With to-day, the holidays for the present
season are ended, but the New Year is only
just begun. We feel impressed to greet our ro-
mance loving friends, as well as those possessed
of more matter-of-fact natures, with something
suitable to the occasion.
	As this is unquestionably an age of immor-
tality, when the world "loves darkness more
than light,” we are aware that the announce-
ment of a highly colored fiction, the work of a
highly imaginative brain, would “take” a hun-
dred per cent more readily than the assertion
that a plain, simple, yet very interesting, “true
story” was about to be told. Yet we venture
upon the latter declaration at the risk of loosing
many attentive readers. the story we propose
to give, is, indeed, strictly true; and to many
of the personal friends of our heroine—who
still lives to grant permission for the publicity
of her story—the incidents to be related will be
familiar.	 
	Sixty-two years ago to day, it was Sunday,
and there was a funeral at Holliston Burk-
shir county, Mas-achusetts. The deceased
was a young man, not thirty years of age at
the time of his death. Yet he was a widower,
the father of a four year old daughter left
motherless when but one month old, and a
bridegroom elect.
	Of all the mourners who had gathered there
 to pay their last respects to one who had borne
 through life a spotless name, moving in a most
respectable circle in society, was a pale faced,
dark eyed girl, the affianced bride of that one
departed.
	Rhoda Richards was twenty-eight years of

[Column 2]
age; less than medium height with a small
trim figure and a face usually expressive of in-
nocent fun and merriment. But upon that
New Year’s day, while the world around her
reveled in gayety and pleasure, she sat like one
from whose heart the last faint ray of sunshine
had gone out forever. 
	She had loved as woman loves but once in a
life-time. She was very soon to have been
wedded to the object of that love, the mortal re-
mains of which now lay before her cold and
dead. For sixteen days and nights she had
watched over him, never allowing herself to be
persuaded from his room, except for an hour or
two at a time, when tired nature could no longer
resist the influence of reasoning friends, and
never entertaining a thought but that he must
and would recover.
	At last, when he had ceased to breathe, she
too sank down silent and senseless, as one
whose heart throbs have been forever stilled.
Yet, as grief seldom kills, she awoke again to 
painful consciousness, and opened her eyes
once more in mortality, to meet the tender,
pitying gaze of her mother who bent anxiously
over her administering restoratives.
	“Do you want to die with him?” was the
solicitous inquiry of that sympathizing moth-
er, in a soft low tone.
	Did she? would she have accompanied him
to his spirit home had such been the gracious
will of heaven? was there ought she could de-
sire or even endure to live for now? Ah! there
still remained one token, one little pledge of
love to bind her to the earth. She remem-
bered the child—his child—and faintly an-
swered her mother “No!”
	The dead mother of little Susan Damon,
(yes, Susan! in those days, be it remembered,
people did not dote on nicknames and pet
names as they do in these) had been to Rhoda
an own, dear cousin.  At the time of her death,
in her last moments she had, daughter like,
bequeathed the babe to her own mother. And
as soon as the services of a wet nurse could
be dispensed with, Susan’s grandmother had
taken her into her home and heart, feeling
that the child was as much her own as its
mother had been. But a few months prior to
the death of the little girl’s father, the grim 
destroyer had entered the home where she was
nestled, to take away its chief head and sup-
port.
	Being thus left a widow with all the cares 
of an almost helpless family, and realizing that
the child’s father had it in his power to pro-
vide for her many comforts which she could
not, Susan's grandmother had sent word to
him that he might have the little one.
	Then it was that Rhoda, as the betrothed of t
Ebenezer Damon, soon to be his wife, had re-
ceived and taken charge of his motherless lit-
tle daughter as her own.
	Now that by the death of her father, the
child was left an orphan indeed, poor Rhoda
felt that for her sake, she would rally and try
to live on.
	And she did live on, day after day and year
after year; though, nothing, seemed to attract
her attention or to divert her thoughts that
did not in some way concern her little Susan—
the precious charge that had been left her by 
her lost lover.
	Five years thus passed away, every day
bringing forth some new tie of affection to
bind the little girl closer to the heart that felt
it would be but an empty shell without her.
	Then came the second great grief to that 
heart which had been already so cruelly
wrecked by fortune's faithless waves.
	Brighter days had dawned upon Susan’s
grandmother. She saw her way more clearly


opening, and came to Rhoda in her father's
home—where she still quietly remained as a
faithful widow—to claim again the bequest of
her dying daughter. Rhoda could not even
plead for the little one, now nine years old, to
remain with her. She knew “Aunt Brigham”
—as she always called her mother’s sister, the
grandmother of her little Susan—had the first
claim on the child. So she saw the one treas-
ure for which she had lived so entirely, borne
away without a murmur. But when it was
over, when the child had gone, a feeling of
such terrible loneliness, such unutterable an-
guish came over her being, that, sinking up-
on her bed she could only gasp for breath
and it seemed as though she could never
speak or stir or look up again.
	But in time, she out lived all her great sor-
rows, or learned to live above them. And to-
day she rejoices that she is in the midst of the
Latter-day Saints, that she heard and received
the Gospel of Jesus Christ; which she remarked
to us but a few evenings since, would likely
never have been, had not these trials fallen to
her lot. She says, although at the time they
were so hard to bear, they were but blessings
in disguise.
	This is why our heroine is still Miss Rhoda
Richards; and why for sixty-two years she has
never once spoken the words to any one, “I
wish you a Hapyy New Year!”
	Now, young ladies, pray do not condemn our
story as being without a moral. It teaches
several good lessons if, as young learners you
are inclined so to receive them.
	It shows that a whole life need not be dolor-
ous because dark shadows sometimes inter-
vene to obscure the sunlight. It also evinces
anew the well established fact, that for our own
good does the ever kind and beneficent Father
permit sorrows to come upon us. And as so
much is said against the bad influence of
“dime novels” and trashy literature, exercised
over the minds of the young who indulge in
such reading, we will point out to them a valu-
able hint which may be taken from "our
story.”
	Instead of seeking to satisfy the cravings of
your young, ardent natures for something
brighter, more lofty and soul stirring than you
find in the dull routine of every day life, by
stupidly conning over the vain imaginations
of some profuse author, look about you and
find heroes and heroines of your own. You
will discover them in those around you, if you
are bright; often the best and noblest in your
dearest friends or nearest relatives. Remem-
ber too, that, without seeking for it, you have
each a romance of your own to live, and pre-
pare to live it well.


