			RESOLUTIONS.

				November 8th, 1874.
	We, the officers and members of the
Young Ladies' Association of Farmington,
realizing that we have been negligent with
regard to some of our duties, have decided
that we have need to form resolutions among
ourselves, which will have a tendency to
create a reformation in the habits of the
young.
	1st.—Resolved, that we will consider one
of our foremost duties to attend Sabbath
meetings, fast meetings, and all meetings,
[Column 2]
where we can gain wisdom and knowledge,
that will prepare us to become useful mem-
bers in the kingdom of God.
 	2nd.—Resolved, that whereas profaning
the name of God is a low and degrading
vice, and also breaking a commandment of
God, we will use our influence to reduce
this disgraceful practice, by not associating
with those who indulge in it.
	3rd.—Resolved, that inasmuch as strong
drink destroys man's physical and intellec-
tual powers, we, as a band of sisters—be-
cause of the respect which we have for
those who are taking this downward course
—cannot conscientiously in the sight of God,
and will not approve of this sin, by associa-
ting with those, who, if they continue in
this course, will bring poverty, shame and
disgrace upon themselves.
	4th.—Resolved, that whereas the use of 
tobacco is a filthy and destructive habit, of-
fensive in the sight of God and all good
men, and creates an appetite, which if not
checked, will lead to ruin, we will not sanc-
tion its use, but exert our influence to pre
vent the young men from tampering with
the life which God has given them, by using
this "obnoxious weed."
	5th.—Resolved that we will not indulge
in "round dancing," and as soon as possible
abandon a desire for the same, as we have
been repeatedly warned against it, as having
originated from an evil source.
	6th.—Resolved, that inasmuch as we
have been, in a great degree, careless with
regard to our conduct in general, such as
"loud laughter," "night walking," "keep-
ing late hours," "actions in meetings and
ball rooms," "speaking lightly of each other
and of sacred things," etc. etc. We will be
more reserved in our actions and conversa-
tion in the future.

	Minutes of a Meeting held by the Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association of the
11th Ward, at the residence of Mrs. Mary
A. Freeze, Nov. 9th, 1874.
	Meeting opened by singing "O my Fath-
er." Prayer by President Mrs. M. A. Freeze.
Singing "Ye ransomed of our God." Min-
utes of the preceeding meeting were read
and accepted. Counselor Miss Lelia Tuckett
read the first Chapter of the first Epistle of
James. Select reading by Pres. M. A.
Freeze and Miss Lizzie Mineer. Coun. Le-
lia Tucket arose and said: "I do not feel
prepared to speak, but we can glean some
excellent ideas from the pieces read. It is
not what we hear or what we read that will
benefit us, but it is what we remember. It
requires a constant watchfulness to keep a
train of good thoughts running through our
minds, they are so apt to be led away with
foolish, trivial things. But with exertion
on our part and assistance from our Heavenly
Father, we can control our thoughts. I feel
well in Retrenchment; there is not a better
institution for drawing out our minds and
causing us to learn the principles of our re-
ligion. I am glad to see so many young
here. The Gentiles are rejoicing in the
thought that the young in Zion will not em-
brace the Gospel, but I know there is a ma-
jority waking up, who desire to learn the
principles of the Gospel, and Retrenchment
was established in time to supply a chance
to satisfy their desire for knowledge. I
have received a testimony of the truth of
this work; it is the privilege of all persons
to know when they are approved of God.
We need a spirit of humility, we must
learn to submit to higher authority and in-
telligence than we possess ourselves. Let
[Column 3]
us not refrain from doing good to others, and
think less of self, and we will merit and re-
ceive the blessings of our Father in Heav-
en."
	President Mrs. Mary A. Freeze then said,
"I have proved many times that the Spirit
of God promotes union; it inspires all who
possess it with the same thoughts and de-
sires. It does my soul good to see the little
ones come to meeting. We have been told
to get the young together, and teach them
good principles and they will never depart
from them. The little ones are eager to
learn, but parents neglect to teach them.
It is very natural for us to feel that we are
all sufficient, but we must learn humility
and strive to know our imperfections; and
when we see our own weakness we will
draw nearer unto God, and he will strength-
en us. I have heard Pres. Young say that
he was always willing to learn from the
youngest child, and that we had got to be-
come as little children, full of humility and
meekness. We must learn not to find fault
with each other. The poet says. "When I
saw my brother's failings, I was not exactly
right." We cannot judge the motives and
feelings of each other; if we knew them we
would be more charitable. I feel like carry-
ing out every law of the gospel for nothing
short of the best glory will suit my desires.
Let us have a watch care over our young
ladies, that they be not lead into bad com-
pany, for they cannot mingle with it and be
untarnished. Let us use good language and
teach our children to use it, for the "Angels
are around us their silent note taking." If
we have perceived a fault in our lives to-day
let us endeavor to master it to-morrow so
that we may improve continually and at last
be saved in the kingdom of God."
	Miss Lizzie Mineer said, "I am happy to
meet with you. I wish we could always
keep the same spirit with us that we feel in
meeting. I want to live nearer to the Lord
day by day, and I know I can do so by at-
tending to prayer. I would like to hear my
sisters speak. The smallest can bear testi-
mony of the goodness of God."
	Mrs. Rebecca Mead said, "I enjoyed your
meeting so much last week that I could not
refrain from coming to-day. The Lord
deigns to give us special blessings here; I am
proud of the children of the saints, there
are none to surpass them in the world. To
me, you young ladies look beautiful with
your plain dresses and natural faces, free
from paint and powder. The Gentiles can-
not help admiring you, in your native
beauty. Do not pattern after the fashions
of the world, but take good counsel, live
pure lives and God will bless you.
	Misses Mary McMaster, Hannah McMas-
ter, Etta Young, Minnie Young, Maggie
Mead and Mirriam Greer were accepted as
members of the Association. Miss Maggie
Mead was appointed to write an essay.
“Humility” continued as a subject for next
meeting. Moved an adjournment for one
week; singing, "Hark the song of Jubilee."
Benediction by Sister Mead.
	MISS LELIA TUCKET, Secretary.


THE gallant coursers of Nantucket are
not remarkable for bottom or speed. One
found his way into the Massachusetts cav-
alry during the rebellion, being recommend-
ed as an excellent war horse. When the
soldier returned he went into a towering
passion, because he had been swindled. "As
how?" asked the islander. "Why, you
warranted him a good war-horse, and there
is not a bit of go in him." "Yes, I did;
and I repeat he is a good war-horse, he'd
sooner die than run."


