		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	How often we hear such expressions as
"The present is ours, the future we know
nothing about, it is all uncertainty, wrapt
in profound mystery." We should be care-
ful to qualify our words and not fall into the
channel of tradition and past education, for-
getting that the light of revelation has
dawned upon us; that a Divine Messenger
has been sent to tell us we are HERE by our
own consent. We are not left to grope in
darkness and in superstition, misguided, we
have been more peculiarly favored. All the
learning of Christendom has not made plain
the simple fact, that we had a previous ex-
istence. The gifted and immortalized By-
ron in his Celebrated prayer, one of the
finest poems ever written, cried out in his
anguish of heart,
	“Without my own consent, I came."
	We are here for a purpose, every one of
us; here to prove our integrity before high
heaven; here to develop the faculties which
have been implanted in our natures, and to
make good use of our time in doing our Fa-
ther's work. Not to abuse, or neglect our
opportunities for advancement. Do we order
our lives with reference to the hereafter,
keeping the conviction continually in view,
not in fear, not in dread, but guiding, di-
recting, inspiring us to achieve a work of
which we need not be ashamed when we go
home again into the presence of our Father?
We must render an account then, without
help from others; without the influence of
friends; not resting upon another's faith;
not trusting to another's knowledge; our
own acts, our own merits must speak for
themselves. We are permitted to help each
other here, to reach out after the weak and
erring, and O! how kind and merciful and
tender we should be, that we lay not a straw
in their path. But ever watchful of those
around us, or those entrusted to our care and
guidance, demonstrate our true charity by
genuine acts of mercy; strengthening, com-
forting, sustaining those whose hearts are
aching, whose bosoms have been pierced,
reminding them of the hereafter in which
they must act their own individual parts.
Thus we may make soft pillows for our
heads when we come to lie in the grave;
showing that sweet charity which is needful;
commending where we can, objecting where
we must, sincere in sorrow for a fault, re-
joicing without envy for a virtue; daring to
stand alone if necessary, having sufficient
moral courage to condemn vice; and although
some hate, some deride and many shun us,
we will not go weakly along with the cur-
rent stream of popularity; though the world
be loud to condemn us, and though we suf-
fer wrong, we look forward to the great
hereafter.
	Shall we be sorry then for any strait and
narrow places through which we have passed
safely, for any crooked path we have trodden
alone? Will there not be joy in our hearts
for the experience we have gained, for the
victory we have achieved.
	Mothers, sisters, we are the pioneers of a
great army who are learning to battle for
life with its opposing elements; and for all
the sorrowful, for all the weak, for all who
have borne neglect in silence and in meek-
ness, for all who have sought to live pure
lives there is one resource which never fails;
therefore let them look from the shattered
idol of their hopes here, from the broken
mirror to the unbroken light reflected from
the Eternal Love that never fails. And re-


member still that all pure love brings its bur-
den as well as its joy; but let HIM be always
nearest, His voice always clearest to be heard,
easiest to be understood, dearest to follow;
what He desires our closest care. The voice
of God is no inarticulate music, but a living
voice, whose “Woe unto the workers of in-
iquity" is real and needed as his “Come un-
to, me all ye that are weary and heavy la-
den.”
	The present is good, if we only under-
stood ourselves properly and we are learning
it daily; and as we learn trying to benefit
others; the future is ours, we belong to it,
we shall assuredly have to take part in it;
and if we can only thoroughly prepare our-
selves here, refreshing and gladdening
others, who may weary of the way, blessing
humanity and advancing true knowledge,
we shall indeed receive a rich recom-
pense, a glorious reward in the great here-
after.
