		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Preserve Fruit Jellies from Mold.—Cover the
surface one fourth of an inch deep with fine pulver-
ized loaf sugar.  When thus protected, the jellies
will keep for years in good condition, and free from
mouldiness.
	Small Bread Pudding.—Boil one pint of milk
with a piece of cinnamon and lemon-peel; pour it
on two ounces of bread-crumbs; add two eggs, half
an ounce of currants and a little sugar: steam it in
a buttered mold for about an hour.
	Plain Baked Eggs.—Butter a dish that will bear
the heat of the oven; break the eggs carefully into
it and season with a little butter, salt, and pepper
if desired; putting the butter in small pieces over.
Place in a slack oven till set, and serve.
	Bread and Butter Pudding.—Butter a dish well,
and sprinkle some currants all around it; then lay
in slices of bread and butter; to two eggs well
whipped add one pint of boiling milk, sweeten
with sugar and pour it over the bread and butter.
Bake in a hot oven.
	Toast and Eggs.—Break the eggs into a stewpan
and add a little salt, pepper and fresh butter; set
the stewpan over a moderate fire and stir round
with a spoon, being careful to keep every particle
in motion until the whole has become a smooth and
delicate thickish substance; have ready convenient
sized crisp pieces of toast, pour the eggs upon
them and serve.
	Cottage Cheese.—Place thick, loppered milk on
the stove, and let it heat thoroughly, not to cook,
or it will be hard. Pour into a hot cloth, and let
it drain until dry; season with salt and butter.
Should it be rather dry, moisten with milk or
cream, and make into balls. Some prefer what is
called "smearkase." Prepare the milk as stated
above, but, instead of making into balls, thin with
sweet cream and add a little pepper.
	To Clean Floor Oil-Cloths.—Soap should not be
[Column 2]
used in cleaning oil-cloths. To half a pail of hot,
soft water, add half a cup of washing fluid, or a
piece of sal-soda half the size of an egg, with a
scrubbing-brush or broom rub hard, putting on only
sufficient water so that it will not run off; wipe dry
with a soft cloth; it will look as bright and shining
as when new. This is a good way to clean com-
mon paint, as it easily removes smoke, grease, or
dust, and does not destroy the gloss or varnish. It
is also useful in washing windows.
	Rice Milk.—Wash a tablespoonful of good rice,
drain and put into a stewpan with a pint of milk
upon the fire; when boiling place it at the corner
to simmer until the rice is quite tender, (for inva
lids it must be a pulp); sweeten with sugar and it
is quite ready. Or if preferred it may be sea-
soned with a little butter and salt. It should be
about the thickness of well made gruel, and it is
very nutritious especially for an invalid who has
been long ill.
	Poached Eggs,—Put a pint of water in a stew
pan; add half a teaspoonful of salt, place it over
the fire and when boiling break your eggs into it as
near the surface of the water as possible, let them
boil gently about three minutes; care should be
taken not to boil too many together; if the yolk
separates from the white it may be presumed that
the egg is not fresh, though the same thing may
happen through awkwardness in poaching. After
they are taken carefully from the water, placed in a
warm dish and drained, lay over them some pieces
of butter, and place before the fire or in a warm
oven for a moment only. Some people think to
add a small quantity of vinegar to the water in
which eggs are poached is an improvement. 
	For Cleansing the Hair and Scalp.—In the
warm days of summer, with dust and perspiration,
the heads of people, especially of laborers and
children, get very dirty, and common washing will
not remove this. Here is a recipe, given by a no-
ted lecturer on hygiene: In a pint bottle put a
spoonful of olive oil and add two ounces of best
spirits of ammonia or hartshorn; shake. Then
mix with three ounces of alcohol and, when thor-
oughly mixed fill the bottle with soft water. Re-
member to put in the ingredients in the order named
or you will have "stuff," and no chemical union at
all. To apply, take a spoonful or two of this, with
a little warm water; dip a sponge or rag in and
wet the scalp thoroughly, now rinse off in a plenty
of warm water, and you will be surprised at the
amount of dirt, though you may have thought your
head perfectly clean. For the heads of young in-
fants it is just the thing, as it instantly removes the
dirty scurf without pain or trouble. It should be
rather weaker for a babe than for an adult.


[Column 1]
