			LOCAL.

	The middle of December and no snow to
lay on the ground a day yet this season.
Rather remarkable......A German singing
club was recently organized in this city......
The Hawaiian King, Kalakana, passed
through Ogden on his way to Washington
on the 7th inst. He is expected to return
this way with his suite, and will likely pay
Salt Lake a visit in a few weeks......Hep-
worth Dixon, the author of "New Ameri-
ca," a book in which he gives the "Mor-
mons" a fair showing, recently visited our
city for the second time......A child was re-
cently kidnapped and a horse and buggy
stolen by a man and woman in this city.
			PERSONAL
William Delaney, one of the "noble six
hundred" who rode at Balaklava, lives now
at Portland, Maine......Bazaine is to occupy
the appartments in London once dwelt in
by Napoleon Third, when he was called
Prince Louis......Fanny Morgen Phelps is
manager of the Oro Fino Theatre in Port-
land, Oregon, and she was lately won great
applause......Miss Mattie Stephenson is the
second lady compositor who has made her
"debut" in Albany, New York......Thomas
Gerrand, a boy murderer in Oregon, is sen-
tenced to be hanged on the 15th of January
......Miss Johns, a young lady of Salem,
Oregon, was recently badly burned by the
explosion of a fluid lamp......Matilda Jos-
lyn Gage says that in the matter of books,
man's work is a sham......Annie Norton, of
Earlville, Ill., has proved a very successful
and skillful doctor......Mrs. Ezra Stephens
of Crete, Nebraska, preached the funeral
sermon of a departed lady recently.
			POLITICAL.
Governor Komper, of Richmond, Va. says,
in his message to the State Legislature, that
"the recent events create hopes that the
government of the United States is to be
brought back to the Constitution"......The
strife in Cuba is still unsettled......The
Whites and the Negroes are having serious
fights in Vicksburg, Ill.; seventy Negroes
were recently killed in one day......In Wal-
la Walla county, Oregon, seventeen candi-
dates were up for representative at the late
election......It is reported that a Republican
Congressman elect, of Kentucky, shot and
killed his Democratic competitor in the
election.


