		  FLORAL HINTS.

	The "American Garden" gives the follow-
ing instructions concerning soil for plants in
pots:
	"It is the common error of amatures and
of some professional gardeners to suppose
that the proper cultivation of green-house
plants a large variety of soils is necessary.
In a work published by an eminent nursery-
man in this country some years ago, no less
than nineteen different combinations of sev-
en different soils are given as necessary to
be used in growing the various plants there
enumerated. To decide which may be the
best soil for the particular plant which he is
growing, leads the cultivator into endless
confusion; while putting his decision in
practice leads to unnecessary trouble and
labor in preparing the composts.
	"In Europe, especially in England,
the atmosphere is so much more moist and
cool than with us—although the annual
rainfall is not greater, if as great as in our
[Column 2]
climate, that plants thrive there in soil which
here would be too light. The drain upon 
the resources of the plant, in our climate,
requires that it should be more substan-
tially fed. As an instance;—Azeleas, Rho-
dodendrons, Camellias, Ericas, Acacias,
Chorizemas, and like plants are grown in
England in sandy peat or in compost largely
composed of it, while with us they do far
better when grown in fresh loam, without
any mixture of peat or leaf mold. In our
own practice we have found that with
good, fresh, loam, without any admixtrue
of sand, leaf-mold or peat or rotted manure,
we can successfully and satisfactorialy grow
almost all of the ordinary greenhouse
plants.
	"There are some exceptions, it is true, 
but they are few. Ferns, Greenhouse Ter-
restrial Orchids, Chinese Primroses and some
things of that sort may require a soil in a
greater or less degree composed of leaf
mold or peat, but the greenhouse hard
wooded plants are better withous it. And
so of Fuchsias, Pelargoniums, Carnations,
Cinerarias, and soft wooded greenhouse
plants generally. They are better for not
having manure mixed with the loam in
which they are grown. The peat and ma-
nure induce a rank growth that is altogeth-
er unnecessary in plants grown by amateurs;
and only necessary for florists in order to
get their young plants as large as possible in
the shortest time—their customers being
guided more by quantity than quality.
The stimulating qualities are soon exhaust-
ed by the exuberant growth of the plant;
it ceases growing and, starved for want of
its exciting food; becomes a somewhat de-
plorable looking object to the purchaser.
If desired to have healthy; bushy plants
covered with a profusion of flowers, it is
best to omit such materials from the com-
post and to rely upon such soil as will pro-
duce a less stimulated growth. If manure
is necessary, and it is so at some periods of
the growth of soft wooded plants, it should
be given in the form of dilute manure wa-
ter. Such periods are just before or at the
time when the plant begins to form its
flower buds, and whilst it is blooming, as
then there is a greater drain upon the vi-
tality of the plant and it needs extra feed-
ing.
	"The best loam for potting purposes is ob-
tained from old pastures or from the grassy
banks of roadsides. It should be taken out
about six inches deep and thrown into a
heap, grass side downwards, to secure de-
cay. The loam should be light and friable
and from well drained land. If it be clayey,
sharp sand should be mixed with it, and if
no pit sand can be obtained, clean road sand
will answer a good purpose. Real peat soil
is very scarce in this country, and we are
obliged to substitute leaf mold. This can be
best obtained in the woods by raking off the
loose leaves and rubbish and taking off the
underlying top soil to a depth of two or
three inches. It can frequently be had in
greater depth in depressed places or basins
in the soil, where the leaves have been
washed by the rains, but should not be ta-
ken from places where the water remains
and becomes stagnant. When gathered it
should be laid in heaps for further decay.
	"Manure should be rotted for eighteen
months or two years before being used and
should be turned over three or four times
during that period. The soil for repotting
should, previous to use, be screened through
a coarse sieve—about half an inch mesh—
to rid it of pebbles, sticks or other extrane-
ous matters. But when seeds are to be
sown in it, a finer sieve—a quarter inch
mesh or a little less—may be used."


