FLOWERS.
	WHAT you keep by you, you can change
or mend, but words once spoken you can
never recall.
	HOW many troubles might mankind be
spared if they would only stop to hear each
others explanations.
	THE discovery of what is true, and the
practice of what is good are the two most
important objects of life.
	MAN isnaturally fond of activity, yet he
has persuaded himself that he loves noth-
ing so much as taking his ease.
	HE who studies for a good purpose, to
him his study becomes a blessing; to him
who does not, it grows a poison.
	WHEN we see a young man who spends
all he earns we are inclined to suspect that
he does not earn all he spends.
	HE who goes too near sin to-day, may fall
into it to-morrow. Prudence will not al-
ways venture to the brink of innocence.
	SEARCH thine own heart! Within thee
there is a fountain of good, which will al-
ways flow, provided thou diggest for it.
	It is impossible for any of us to please
every one. But if we were all inclined to
make as much sunshine for each other as
the kind and beneficent Father has given
us all power to do, there need be no dark-
ness of long duration in any heart.


Lewenboeck tells us of an insect seen
with the microscope, of which twenty-sev-
en millions only equal a mite. Insects of
various kinds may be seen in the cavities
of a grain of sand. Mold is a forest of beau-
tiful trees, with the branches, leaves and
fruit. Butterflies are fully feathered.
Hairs are hollow tubes. The surface of our
body is covered with scales like a fish; a
single grain of sand would cover one hun-
dred and fifty of these scales and yet a scale
covers five hundred pores. Through these
narrow openings the sweat forces itself, like
water through a seive. The mites make
five hundred steps a second. Each drop of
stagnant water contains a world of animated
beings, swimming with as much liberty as
whales in the sea. Each leaf has a colony
of insects grazing on it like cows in a mea-
dow.


It is estimated that the French Governm-
ment loses $60,000 a year for its revenue in
one department by the second use of stamp-
ed paper, from which the writing made
when the stamped paper was bought is wash-
ed by chemical processes. It has now bought
the secret of an indelible ink.


