	INTERESTING PARAGRAPHS.

	IF the Mormon women read the EXPO-
NENT and live up to its moral and intellect-
ual teachings, they will never discredit the
political rights they enjoy.—"Stockton
Leader."
	THE quaintest thing of late in baby-talk
—a little girl seeing a dog scratching to be
let in at an opposite door promptly knocked
at the window and called out: "Ing e bell,
doggy; ing e bell."
	HOW often are you irresistibly drawn to-
ward a plain, unassuming woman, whose
soft tongue renders her attractive. In the so-
cial circle how pleasant it is to hear a woman
talk in that low key that always character-
izes a true lady. In the sanctuary of home
how such a voice soothes the fretful child
and cheers the weary husband.—Lamb.
	THERE is a dog belonging to a Concord
(N.H.) fire company which always takes it
upon herself to spread a fire alarm, and 
makes a great ado about it. When a fire
broke out in the village, a few days ago,
she rushed to a sleeping fireman and waked
him by seizing him by the throat. She then
went to the house of another fireman, and,
having called him out by her loud barking,
fastened upon his clothes and tried to have
him expedite his movements.
	A CYNICAL essayist remarks as one of the
oddist points of difference between man
and woman, that woman has no first love.
The long alphabet of her affections is with-
out any distinct end or beginning. She
mounts her insensible graduation from dolls
and kittens and brothers to the zenith of 
passion, to descend by the insensible gradu-
ations from the zenith of passion, through
pet brothers and tabby cats. There is no
such event as a first kiss forms in a boy's
life to mark for woman the transition from
girl-hood to the sudden maturity of passion;
she has been kissing and purring and fond-
ling and petting from her cradle. And she
will pet and fondle and purr and kiss to her
grave.
	A BONE FOR BABY.—Almost every one
who ever had a bright dog can tell curious
stories about dog behavior. A gentleman
in Erie, Pa., furnishes the "Observer" with 
this funny anecdote: Mrs. J. has for some
time past been the owner of a fine Esqui-
maux dog. A few weeks ago Mrs. J. be-
came the mother of a beautiful little girl, of
whom the dog at first sight was very jeal-
ous. His better nature however, soon as-
serted itself, and he became very fond of
the child. A few months ago baby was cry-
ing loud and long. Doggicame up stairs and
in evident distress of spirits, whined in an-
swer to the childs cry; but, finally, as if a
sudden thought had startled him, trotted
down stairs. He presently returned with a
bone, well picked of course, in his mouth,
which, standing on his hind legs he gravely
presented to the baby.
	BOIL IT DOWN.—Blessed is the writer who
can boil it down. The man who knows so 
well what he wants to say that he can come
to it in a few short picturesque sentences,
is the readable and quotable journalist of
these days. People cannot wait with the
patience they used to have, to get at the
pith of things. The railroad has educated 
them out of all patience with slowness.
The telegraph has completed that education,
and at the same time incapaciated them for
the endurance of words. When we have
to pay a fixed price—so many cents for a
word—for every word we employ to express

[Column 2]
our meaning, we are apt to husk the sen-
tence down to the kernel, and to value the
art of expressing a thought with the husks
off. We want the naked idea. Words are
nothing. Language would be abolished if
there were anything briefer to take its place.
But, since it can not be abolished, boil it
down.


