			 LOCAL.
	Governor Woods sang in the 14th Ward
choir on a recent Sunday......Thanks-giving
Day was a hungry time for some folks who
failed to lay in a sufficient supply of food
before the shops were closed; they are
thankful it is over......The Z. C. M. I. retail
grocery department has been purchased by
David Day & Co.......The people of Sanpete
have petitioned for a daily mail......A School
Teachers' examination was held in the Uni-
versity building on the 28th ult........Mr.
Mayo has been personating Davy Crockett
at the Theatre.		
			FOREIGN.
	Tailors in China are not favorably im-
pressed with the introduction of sewing
machines, they have an idea it will cheapen
labor......An unusually heavy shock of earth-
quake recently occurred in Chili, South
America......Church reforms have been for-
cibly introduced in Poland by the govern-
ment, and serious riots have been thereby
occasioned......A dispatch from London says
that during a recent gale, five Yarmouth
fishing crafts were supposed to have been
lost with all on board......Improvements are
noted in the wheat market of England......
In Hendaye, Spain, the weather has been so
severe that military opperations are sus-
pended.
			PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Duniway lectures on "The Destiny of
our Republic"......Mrs. Blake and Mrs. Flynt
talk about "Dress Reform"......Mrs. Stanton
gives information concerning "President and
People"......Miss Kate Field has taken to
theatrical performances......Mrs. Howe tells
about "Finance"......Mrs. Livermore is said
to have accomplished more good in the lec-
ture field than any man ever did, Charles
Dickens not excepted......Mrs. Holden of
Chicago calls attention to the "Physical Edu-
cation of Girls."
		     POLITICAL
	The government estimates, it is reported,
will average six or seven millions this year
below what they were last year......General
Banks refuses to be a candidate for the
speakership of the next House of Repre-
sentatives.......Speaker Blain will not be a
candidate for the United States senatorship
from Maine......Grant now laughs at the
idea of his being re-elected for a third term
as President.......Washington Territory, as
reported, "has gone republican"......Arizona
has about "half a dozen" candidates for
Congress, or at least, two.
		     GENERAL.
	Seven hundred girls find employment in
the silk factories of New Jersey......The
majority of the male population of Switzer-
land die before they attain their fiftieth
year......A new agent called "carboleum" has
lately been discovered, and it is thought,
will supersede steam......A woman's college
has been established at Little Rock, Ark.....
A rule has been adopted in Pennsylvania to
prohibit the peddling of newspapers, novels,
candies, &c., on the cars........The yellow
fever, which has raged for some time in
Pensacola, has abated......A number of fail-
ures of prominent business men have lately
been reported......Two Texas men have
gone to Europe to make plans for the immi-
gration of people who may wish to come
from Europe and settle in Texas.....There
are said to be no millionaires in Turkey......
Madrid is now a poor place for business or
to live in, every body is poor there......Plano,
Kendall county, Ill., is without a saloon;
the last saloon license has expired and the

[Column 2]
Trustees refuse to grant any more.........
mother and daughter, of Madison, Ill.,
were recently fatally burned by the explo-
sion of a coal-oil lamp......White gros grain
is now fashionably used for trimming on
black and dark colored velvet bonnets.


