[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: UTAH DELEGATION TO THE LATE CONVEN- | Author: Unknown]

UTAH DELEGATION TO THE LATE CONVEN-
TION.
	The delegation from Utah to the con-
vention of the Daughters of the Revolution,
held at Philadelphia, was as follows: Miss
Julia Farnsworth, proxy for the regent;
Miss Emily Cannon, now in Boston, proxy
for the vice regent, and Miss Mabelle Show,
delegate lor the society. Miss Emma
Hatch of Heber City accompanied the dele-
gation.
	The party left Salt Lake City on the
evening of April 15th, on the R. G. W.
railroad. The journey was exceedingly
pleasant, the young ladies receiving much
attention and many favors from the rail-
road officials. The delegation reached
Washington on Wednesday, April 19th,
where three days were spent in sight see-
ing. The places of interest visited were
the Capitol building, Library Of Congress,
Smithsonian Gardens, National Museum,
Agricultural building, Medical Institute,
Corcoran art gallery, Washington monu-
ment, treasury, state war and navy depart-
ments, the White House, Mt. Vernon,
Arlington and Alexandria.
	We left for Philadelphia on Saturday
evening. On arriving there we were soon
comfortably located at the Stratford hotel,
the D. R. headquarters. A few moments
after having been shown our rooms we
were made happy by a call and most
cordial greeting from Mrs. Louisa D. Galli-
son, secretary general, who had noted our
arrival on the hotel register. She escorted
us to the parlor to present us to the presi-
dent general, Mrs. Henry Sanger Snow,
and associate officers, who received us with
warm expressions of welcome, establishing
most friendly relations from the start.
On Sunday afternoon services were held
at the old Swedish Church, where the Sons
and Daughters of the Revolution and
Colonial Dames attended in a body. The
evening was quietly passed in the parlors of
the hotel in conversation with new friends.
	The first regular session convened on
Monday at 10 a. m. Each State represented
had been appointed a section and banner,
the delegates taking their respective places
as they entered. Having been arranged
alphabetically, the Utah section and banner
were quite, in the rear. In passing down
the hall to take our places we were inter-
cepted by one of the officers, who lifting
the banner “Utah” high above her head,
proceeded along the aisle, beckoning us to
follow, and the Utah delegates moved for-
ward, amid tremendous applause, to a place
in the front ranks. A special clapping of
hands greeted the response from Utah at
roll call, upon showing the full delegation
present.
	The chief feature of the morning session
was the address of the president, Mrs. Henry
Sanger Snow. She is a lady of unusual
pleasing presence, being graceful and
affable in manner and withal a most effici-
ent and charming president general.
	The afternoon was principally devoted to
society reports, of which twenty two were


[Column 1]
presented. Utah’s report and greeting
from the regent, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
was creditably presented by Miss Julia
Farnsworth, and was received with a dem-
onstration of approval. When it subsided
the first vice president general, Miss Ada-
line Whelock Sterling—who is recognized
as the wittiest woman among the society
leaders and is exceedingly popular—arose
and expressed herself in well chosen words
of praise and good wishes for the future of
our society, concluding with the wish “that
the little roots planted in the beautiful
western soil, would shoot up into magnifi-
cent trees.”
	The secretary general then presented
several resolutions, the most important of
which was one from the society Daughters
of the American Revolution, asking for
a union of the two societies. This request
was emphatically objected to by the
Daughters of the Revolution and conse-
quently rejected. Other society business
completed the closing session of the con-
vention.
	The Pennsylvania Society, D. R., had
planned an interesting program for our en-
tertainment during our stay in their chief
city. It was as follows: Promptly at 9:30
Tuesday morning a merry party left the
Hotel Stratford and proceeded to the city
hall, where we were tendered an impromp-
tu reception by Mayor Ashbridge, who in a
most courteous manner welcomed the
Daughters to the city in a pleasant little
speech, in which he referred to Philadelph-
ia’s wealth of historic interest, making a
fitting meeting place for a gathering of
patriotic women.
	From the City Hall we went to Carpen-
ter’s Hall, where we all were enthusiastic
over the historic relics displayed. Indepen-
dence Hall also received our attention, after
which we went to the grave of Benjamin
Franklin, which was decorated elaborately
with flowers and a flag. We next visited
St. Peter’s church and Christ church, where
we sat in the pew once occupied by Wash-
ington, Franklin and other great men.
From there we proceeded to the Betsy Ross
house where we all had our pictures taken
in a group.
	The party then returned to the hotel
Stratford and prepared for the chief event
of the day, an elaborate luncheon given
us by the Pennsylvania D. R. On enter-
ing the lunch room exclamations of sur-
prise and delight were heard on all sides;
it presented indeed a most attractive scene.
The walls were draped with bunting and
silk, in the colors of the society. At one
end of the room a magnificent silk national
flag almost covered the wall. At the other
a large blue shield bearing the words,
“Daughters of the Revolution,” in gold
letters, was the center piece, surrounded by
elaborate drapery. The color scheme was
also carried out in the table decorations,
yellow flowers in blue bowls being on each
table, together with yellow shaded candles
and quantities of blue and yellow satin rib-
bon. Even in the menu the patriotic ob-
ject of the society was kept in mind, for
“Liberty Punch” was served in little Liber-
ty Bells of blue and yellow. Following
the luncheon came a series of toasts. The
first was “An Optimist’s View of Our
Country’s Future,” by our President Gen-
eral, Mrs. Snow, who briefly outlined the
history of our country, its advance and
gain in territory and culture. Under the
toast of “The Winter at Valley Forge,”
Mrs. H. E. Bowschur described touchingly

[Column 2]
the sufferings of our soldiers, and the humi-
liation endured by Washington, when even
his friends and Congress seemed disposed
to criticise and blame him. A most inter-
esting address was delivered by Mrs.
Andrew Bray of New Jersey, upon “The
Responsibility of Ancestors.” Mrs. C. H.
West spoke upon “Our Society and what it
stands for.” The closing toast, “After
All,” was responded to by Mrs. Adaline
Sterling. In her response she summed up
the progress women were making in every
field, calling particular attention to the fact
that in this generation there are no old
maids. There are bachelor girls, plenty of
them, and unmarried women on all sides,
but the forlorn old maid as a relic of a by-
gone age, is quite out of keeping with our
present, progressive march.”
	During the remainder of my stay in
Philadelphia the time continued to be oc-
cupied in sight seeing, and throughout we
were most royally entertained, the Utah
delegates being the constant recipients of
the most marked attention. Our reception
and treatment left nothing to be desired.
	On the morning of Saturday, April 29th,
I left the other members of the party and
started for home, they intending to remain
in the east a few weeks longer. The
homeward trip was rendered exceedingly
interesting by my meeting with many per-
sons eager to hear something about Utah,
with special reference to the “Mormons.”
This gave frequent opportunity to explain
to such the religious faith of the Saints. I
greatly enjoyed this excursion and those
with whom I conversed appeared to be
favorably impressed with what they heard.
				MABELLE SNOW.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


