Valentines Are Important "Sold the last of them last night, Madam." "Oh, no!" "Sorry. Had a run on them. The kids are buying more these days." Susan sighed. Well, being out of stock saved her the embarrassment of asking for credit to buy them. Perhaps they would have turned her down anyway. She walked siowly from the store. Her legs were too tired to navigate. Or was it her very soul that was tired? That evening the children were extra cheerful, polite, helpful, and downright good. Susan was extra cheerful herself. It was a Pollyanna game they all seemed to be playing. Yet it seemed better than to sit down in the middle of the room and cry for lack of valentines. It was while Susan lay awake in her bed that night that she decided what she would do. She would make the prettiest valentine cake! Then, when the children came home from school, they would have a family party. She would cut the cake and serve hot chocolate with it. Susan arose early, long before the February sun had peeked over the horizon. She stirred up batter for a velvet white cake. Instead of baking it in the two square layers, or the two round pans, she poured the batter into one square pan and one round pan. When the cakes were baked and cooled, she cut the round cake in half. She placed the square cake at an angle on her largest and prettiest plate to form the point of the heart. The two round halves she placed at the top of the diamond square to form the round parts of the heart. It was a perfect valentine. Susan iced the three parts together. Then, with fluffy white icing, she covered the whole big heart. Inthe center she wrote eight names: Tom, Victor, Martha, Cloe, Connie, Mark, Betty, and Laurie. With the decorator, she made little rosebuds, hearts, and cupids. Then she edged the entire valentine with lace icing. The cake was beautiful! Susan placed the cake high on the top of the cupboard out of sight. Then she sighed. The cake wouldn't take the place of valentines for friends, but she had done the best she could, and her heart felt better. The children would know that she cared. The sun came up over the eastern mountains. It was going to be a beautiful day, clear and bright and warm for February, a perfect Valentine Day... Well almost. It was time to awaken the children. What was that? A knock on the door at this hour? Susan went to the door and opened it. There stood the mailman smiling like a valentine himself. Then he seemed to be embarrassed a little. "Good morning, Mrs. McMaughan. This is a little out of order. I usually pass your house about ten-thirty. But when we sorted the mail this morning, there was this big package for your family. Since it is labeled valentines, I thought you might like it before school begins. So I dropped by on my way home for breakfast." Susan couldn't have appreciated this early call more if it had been St. Valentine himself. "Thank you. Thank you very much." Susan was all thumbs as she tore open the package. Out fell two large cellophane packets bulging with valentines. "Children! Children! Come and see!" There was a fine variety of valentines, even clever ones for the teachers. It was a hurry-up, but joyous morning. There were so many names of friends to write in so little time. Susan couldn't remember when they had all been so happy. After they were gone to school, Susan sat back in her chair for a bit of rest. Jim wasn't a whirlwind of a provider, but he was a thoughtful man. She would use the last postage stamp to write him a valentine love letter, and let him know how happy he had made his little children.