KATE'S COOKIES Kate Swainston 14, cup white sugar 14, cup brown sugar 1 egg 1 cube butter (14 Ib.) *2 tablespoons of cream *1 tablespoon of lemon juice 114 cup flour 14, tsp. Soda 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Almond flavoring 14 cup rolled oats Mix ingredients together in order listed. Roll and store in refrigerator for two to four hours before baking. Slice and place on baking sheet. Bake at 400° for 12 minutes. *Three tbsp. Sour cream can be substituted. Rose Ella Miller Hall, Jacksonville, Florida, preserves the radiant beauty of flowers in lasting form and color. Roses, lilies, daisies, dahlias—flowers in bouquets, flowers in pools and rustic gardens—flowers adorning the landscape of a cottage in the hills—Mrs. Hall has captured the elusive beauty of the floral kingdom. Her interest in painting developed at an early age when she bought art supplies with her penny-budget. Later in life, she earned her living by painting delicate flowers on silk blouses and scarves. Her paintings have found places of honor in numerous homes throughout the United States. Many of her scenes are painted from happy childhood memories. The Relief Society sisters know that when bazaar time comes, they will have the opportunity of seeing some lovely paintings by Mrs. Hall, as well as hearing the background story of each painting. Mrs. Hall, a member of the Jacksonville Second Ward, Florida Stake, bears a fervent and sincere testimony of the gospel. Her spirit is as beautiful as the colors she blends in the paintings. THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Idaho Stake, Bancroft Ward Relief Society Compiles Pictorial History March 17, 1966 Arlene T. Torgesen, President, Idaho Stake Relief Society, reports: "A detailed history had been carefully kept of the Bancroft Ward Relief Society since its organization in 1907, but no pictures had been inserted. In January, Frances Yost (a contributor to The ) was asked to secure pictures for Bancroft Ward's history book and to prepare a picture display for the Seventeenth of March social. "Sister Yost decided to display the leaves from the history book. She located many pictures and took others herself. There had been twelve presidents serving during sixty years. By using one page for each president's term, all who served with her could be on one page. The back of the page could be used for events which took place during the president's term. "By the seventeenth of March, at the ward Relief Society social, seventeen pages of pictures on both sides were displayed, with the necessary captions. Each loose-leaf page was covered with cellophane so that the leaves could be picked up and examined closely, as well as turned over. Now the Bancroft Relief Society has a history book really to crow about. Sister Yost is shown in the picture with the historical display. The crocheted bedspread covering the table was also made by Sister Yost." All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, , Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The for , page 50. Shelley Stake (Idaho) Flower Show and Cooked Foods Sales August 2, 1966 Helen L. Hanson, President, Shelley Stake Relief Society, reports: "An audience of nearly 900 enjoyed an evening of cultural refinement, when Shelley Stake Relief Society presented a delightful Singing Mothers concert, followed by a combined flower show and cooked foods sale. 'Reflections in Music,' conducted by Sharlene S. Eaton and accompanied by Muriel F. Clark and Laree O. Hammer, depicted the choice moments in a lifetime from infancy to the golden years of spirituality. The same theme was brought beautifully into focus in the cultural hall by a revolving seven-foot high, glittering treble cleft and staff atop a satin-covered table grouped among other beautifully decorated tables, enchanced by gladioli, grape clusters, dainty ceramics, figurines, and a most perfect rose. "Talents and efforts of many were displayed through unique and beautiful floral arrangements placed on tiered tables, and throughout the hall among the booths. Then, on the enticing food tables, were such titles as 'The Good Ship Lollipop,' 'Blackbirds Baked in a Pie,' and decorated to capture attention and urge everyone to buy the tempting foods. "The class displays were exhibited under 'Relief Society—Key to Harmonious Living.' We felt that the event was a great success culturally and financially, as well as being a missionary tool, for we had two nonmembers singing with us, as well as many nonmembers in the audience." Franco-Belgian Mission, Verdun (France) Servicemen's Group Holds Bazaar Front row, left to right: Zoe Coomes, First Counselor; Audrey Hill, Second Counselor; Lee Noel and baby. Back row, left to right: Lillian Ishoy; Audrey Westlake, President; Georgia Hoffman; Elaine Parker; LaVon Hosey; Janice Greer. Helen H. Paramore, Supervisor, Franco-Belgian Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Verdun Servicemen's Group Relief Society is made up of wives of both Canadian and American servicemen stationed in the Verdun, Etain, and Marville area of France. While the Relief Society is small, due to rotation back to the States and Canada, they still reap the blessings from the Lord through service. They have the opportunity of attending conference every three months and meeting with the mission presidency. The American servicemen and families are being taken from France, and the Canadian servicemen are being sent to Germany, thus eliminating these members in France. We are sorry to lose these diligent members who have rendered so much strength and support to the Franco-Belgian Mission." Sydney Stake (Australia) Relief Society Luncheon In Honor Of Retiring President July 29, 1966 Left to right: Janet Dean, visiting teacher message leader; Jean Jeffree, Magazine representative; Neta Ehmann, social relations class leader; Ethel Hurst, chorister; Pauline M. Maugh, homemaking leader; Betty Stokes, incoming president; Ethel Parton, retiring president; Valerie Clarke, First Counselor; Mary Frater, Secretary-Treasurer; Joyce Smith, cultural refinement class leader; Maxine Munn, acting secretary-treasurer; Elsie Parton, spiritual living class leader; Mavis Draper, Second Counselor. Sister Stokes reports: "Sister Parton was called to be district president for a period of six years previous to the formation of Sydney Stake. She then served a further six years as stake Relief Society president. Sister Parton was presented with a canteen of cutlery on behalf of Relief Society throughout the stake." Garden Grove Stake (California) Conducts Art Show June 24, 1966 Left to right: Afton Minson, President; Marjorie Kerr, Chairman of art show and President of new Huntington Beach Stake Relief Society; Gwenith Lewis, co-chairman of art show and stake board member. Sister Minson reports: "Garden Grove Stake presented the first of a proposed series of annual art shows, June 24th, in connection with the stake birthday ball, celebrating five years of growth. Garden Grove Stake was officially divided on June 5th, when the new Huntington Beach Stake was formed. The art show marked a memorable milestone, a gala celebration of a last activity together. Exhibitors were members of the original Garden Grove Stake, and exhibits were of outstanding quality. There were over 300 entries, representing 100 artists. Competition included nine categories, each with first, second, and third awards: Landscapes; Still Life; Portraits and Character Studies; Abstract; Youth Artist, under Eighteen; Ceramics; Sculpture; Stitchery; and Photography. The showing was attended by approximately 400 viewers. Judges were Eileen Quiqley and Rita Gillette, from the Huntington Beach Art League. Hostesses were ward and stake Relief Society officers." 132 133 ORY SACS ADS SRC EARD Arey AS nS Ne ORE Se SRE ORT OR SON Te, sag ins BOERS SERRE BeAPaanertiyte vg eran 018 AV ERO ALR a Ap rita saaeomnts x r 5 a Oe an a ee RS Western States Mission, Roswell (New Mexico) District Presents "Show and Tell'? Day, August 25, 1966 Left to right: Eileen Higgins, Secretary; Annette Mitchell, Second Counselor; Barbara Gibson, President; Joyce Hannifan, First Counselor; Margaret McFarland, homemaking leader. Carrell Thorpe, President, Western States Mission Relief Society, reports: "For the annual 'Show and Tell' day, the table decor was in keeping with the autumn theme that was carried throughout the cultural hall. The table was covered in gold, and the centerpiece was created by the district Relief Society President Barbara Gibson. The menu consisted of chicken salad, melon boat, fruit cups, and rolls. The recipes were taken from The ." Grantsville Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, September 30, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right, former Singing Mothers, given special honor: Myrtle Barrus; Edith Anderson; Annie Millward; Adda Willis; Mary Ann Lenore J. Johnson, President, Grantsville Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Each of the eleven wards in the stake was represented. Many of the sisters traveled long distances to attend the practices. Melba Wells, chorister, conducted. The chorus sang 'Hear My Prayer,' and an original song written by Sister Wells, 'Lift Our Voices Unto God,' which added greatly to the spirituality of the meeting. President Johnson and her Counselors Agnes Clark and Fern Wilson, sang with the group, as did several other stake Relief Society board members. Vera Elfors, who has served as stake organist for many years, and Mignon Christley were the accompanists."' Bear Lake Stake (Idaho)