[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | September | Issue: 4 | Title: BATHSHEBA W. SMITH. | Author: Unknown]

BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
THE ELECT LADY.
I know thee well, thy sterling worth,
And thy pure heart, so free from guile,
Thy rich inheritance of birth,
Thy girlish fancies, as erstwhile
Thy youthful days fled on apace,
Giving thee symmetry and grace.

And riding over hill and dale
Mounted on horseback, bridle free,
Facing the storms of wind and gale,
Thus gaining health and energy—
To brave life's battles, and to be
Fitted for thy great destiny,

The Gospel came to thee in youth,
And thou wert ready to receive
The welcome tidings of the truth,
And in those principles believe.
Which to a Prophet had been given,
Reveal’d through messengers from heav'n.

A youthful lover came to woo
The fair young Bathsheba for wife,
A faithful man, honest and true,
One to be trusted throughout life;
Soon plighted vows were interchanged.
And wedding nuptials were arranged.

Two souls who lov’d each other well,
United truly, heart and hand,
To found a home wherein to dwell.
Where love should rule, the one command,
Together ever, come what may,
To journey on along life’s way.

Sweet were the hours at eventide
When labor o’er, the day’s work done,
They sat together side by side
And planned the future for each one,
That might be given to them here,
The children, they might have to rear.

In peace the years sped swiftly by.
Though many changes with them came;
Travels and journeyings; thereby
A rich experience and honor’d name,
A life replete with happiness,
Treading the path of righteousness

I would this story I might give
In verse befitting such a theme.
That through the ages it might live
A synonym of “love’s young dream,”
Fulfilled in part while dwelling here,
To finish in another sphere.

I saw her when a fair young bride,
Again with baby in her arms,
The happy father at her side,
Her face all radiant with charms,
That mother-love makes fairer, still—
Than aught beside, say what you will.


And now in ripest womanhood
	We see the glory in her face,
Which proves how bravely she withstood
	All trials with becoming grace, 
Known only to a Saint of God,
	Who’s pass’d beneath the chast’ning rod.
