[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Poem | Title: Winter | Author: Earl]
["Winter Promise," by Zero Wilde Earl]
Of  winter  held  earth  in  its  frozen  grip. 
And  felt  a  joyous  thrill  I  did  not  clip 
The  berried  branches  as  a  center  spray 
For  my  Thanksgiving  table  that  bleak  day. 
Lrra^er  IPrefc ace 
T>OTOthy  ].  Roheits 
May  bared  branches  utter  the  naked  heart 
As  unashamed  as  leafless  limbs  their  lineage  cry. 
Lettering  in  charcoal  for  the  land  to  read, 
Their  past,  in  parable,  printed  on  the  sky; 
On  every  lost  and  fallen  leaf,  its  scar. 
As  boughs  have  written  their  dark  roots  of  prayer, 
Holding  the  shapes  of  harps  upon  the  air 
To  windy  plucking  and  their  twigs  to  star, 
Let  me  emerge  revealed,  as  winter's  tree, 
Written  and  drained,  to  be  filled  by  thee.

cJools  for    ijour  L^l.ild 
Helen  B.  Morris 
4  4  fT^  HERE'S  no  use  spending  a 
I      lot  of  money  for  toys/'  one 
mother  complained.    "The 
children  never  play  with  them  any- 
way." 
Actually,  from  my  experience  as 
a  mother  and  as  a  former  teacher,  I 
feel  it  is  just  as  important  to  pro- 
vide your  child  with  proper  play 
equipment  as  it  is  to  buy  his  cloth- 
ing and  furnish  him  with  a  balanced 
diet.  Play  is  the  means  by  which 
the  child  expresses  himself  and  the 
way  he  learns  about  the  adult  world 
into  which  he  is  growing.  Proper 
self-expression  feeds  his  soul  and 
nurtures  a  radiant,  well-adjusted  per- 
sonality.   A  busy  child  is  happy. 
PJay  Equipment  Should  Include 
Toys  Which  Encourage  Creativity 
Building  blocks  are,  perhaps,  the 
most  important  single  toy  a  child 
can  own.  They  provide  him  with 
countless  hours  of  enjoyment  from 
the  time  he  begins  to  toddle  about 
until  he  is  eight  or  nine  years  old. 
Blocks  become  towers  or  trains. 
They  may  become  corrals  or  high- 
ways. Later  on,  building  becomes 
more  complicated.  But,  at  any  stage, 
no  other  media  provides  such  a  di- 
verse outlet  for  the  imagination.  It 
also  provides  excellent  opportunity 
to  learn  muscular  control. 
We  are  told  that  fancy-colored 
blocks  are  less  desirable  than  uncol- 
ored  ones  of  standard  size.  One 
standard  building  block  on  the  mar- 
ket has  a  basic  unit  five  a^nd  one-half 
inches  long,  two  and  three-fourths 
inches   wide,    and   one    and    three- 
eighths  inches  thick.  In  addition, 
there  should  be  squares,  triangles, 
columns,  pillars,  arches,  diagonals, 
and  oblongs  in  sizes  that  are  either 
parts  of,  our  multiples  of,  the  basic 
unit.  Such  blocks  can  be  pur- 
chased, or  they  might  be  cut  and 
sanded  at  home. 
Clay  is  an  essential  creative  ma- 
terial for  the  child's  self-expression 
and  emotional  development.  A 
satisfactory  substitute  can  be  made 
at  home  by  combining  one  cup  of 
flour  or  cornstarch  with  two  cups  of 
salt,  and  adding  cold  water  to  make 
a  thin  paste.  After  cooling,  it  is 
ready  for  the  clay  board. 
A  board  is  essential  if  a  child  is 
to  gain  satisfaction  in  playing  with 
clay.  There  must  be  a  solid  surface 
on  which  to  pound,  poke,  and  mold. 
A  sanded  board  one  inch  thick  and 
one  foot  square  makes  an  ideal  clay 
board. 
Finger  painting  allows  the  child 
''messiness"  with  sanction.  The 
paint  can  be  made  at  home  by  thick- 
ening water  with  cornstarch  until  it 
is  the  right  consistency  for  the  child 
to  spread  on  paper  with  his  fingers. 
Footl  coloring  makes  it  more  de- 
lightful. 
A  child  also  likes  paints  that  can 
be  spread  with  a  brush.  An  easel 
can  be  made  at  little  or  no  cost  to 
the  family  from  scraps  of  wood.
