[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Board | Title: Relief Society Bulletin Cover and Masthead]
give delicious, old-fashioned FRUIT CAKE for yuletide cheer = he & Baked from a treasured old pioneer recipe in our eee 2 LY own Sunlit Bakery. Bursting with the very finest / mm A | — A w fruits and crunchy nuts. A welcome holiday gift. TL | 25 2 Ib. Cake in gift tin MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Lake City 10, Utah ———— Please send the following Fruit Cake: Quan, Size Price T Ib. Loaf, 1.39; 1 Ib. In gift tin, 1.84 3 Ib. Cake, 3.95; 3 Ib. In gift tin, 460
Cash [) Charge [) c.0.0. UO Name ccccccccccccssserscssccesccccscccoccconsseecnee ome PTC as cts eee to oc vc cnc eos conesesccsssceeceessceees iN ea wa cn coco ce OTD, STE 4500.00 e000 _ Include 29¢ postage for first pound and ee ee Seer nibor 10¢ for each additional pound ordered.
Utah residents add 2% State Sales Tax. Srom Near and Sar Because of a new baby in the house, we were having a particularly trying time with our two-year-old, when the July issue of the Magazine came, with Christie Lund Coles' article "Kneel to Your Child." I do sincerely thank you and her for this marvelous article. It certainly aided me in developing more patience and a positive attitude toward the situation. As she concluded her article, we do thank God for the goodness and sweetness that have been entrusted to our care. —LaVerle M. Nielsen Eureka, California I send these few lines to thank you all so much for your wonderful Magazine. I have had it sent through my niece Miss Kathleen Davies of Fillmore, Utah. I enjoy the Magazine, and so do my grandchildren. We are members of the Baptist Church.... May God bless the readers of your Magazine and all who help with your Church. —May E. Boddy Hoole, Chester, England Six of the Christmas presents I gave were subscriptions to The Relief Society Magazine, going to two daughters-in-law, one daughter, and three sisters, who have written letters of gratitude for "a Christmas present lasting all through the year."
Thanks for a year's companionship with inspiring material. The Magazine not only blessed our home, but I pass it on to shut-ins who are very grateful. —Mrs. Etta Robbins Benicia, California I have been taking The Relief Society Magazine for about a year and a half and do enjoy it very much. I can't get to Relief Society meetings, as I have to work, but I can keep up with the lessons and feel more a part of it through the Magazine. —Margaret Kearney Idaho Falls, Idaho Congratulations to The Relief Society Magazine on its September issue. It has outdone its usually excellent self.
Congratulations to Alberta H.
Christensen also on her splendid poems. I was pleased to read them and they made me feel proud that we have such fine craftsmen among our Utah poets. I am simply devouring the Magazine's contents. —Gene Romolo Provo, Utah I cannot refrain from expressing my delight in the beautiful poem "Would You Find Peace?" by Gene Romolo in the August Magazine. All her poetry is inspiring and touching. 'Thank you for a lovely Magazine. I have taken it since 1926, soon after I arrived in Zion, and have thoroughly enjoyed every copy. —Helen McQuarrie Salt Lake City, Utah How much I enjoyed the story "Forever Orchid" by Frances C. Yost (May 1955)! One dozen red roses were delivered to me the morning of Mother's Day from my son who is right here at home. I always read The Relief Society Magazine from cover to cover. It never fails to put my spirit in tune to read the truly inspired messages from those brothers and sisters who are holding positions of honor in our great Church. —Ruth Louise Olson Santa Rosa, California Each month I enjoy so much _ the articles, features, stories, and poetry in the Magazine.
Especially do I enjoy the lesson department. I am social science class leader in the West Jordan Second Ward Relief Society, and, using the material outlined in the Magazine as a basic guide, it is no difficult matter to present a lesson of interest to every Relief Society member. —Joanne B. Rose West Jordan, Utah — California in Winter," The Cover: "Yosemite Valley, Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece Photograph: "The Grand Tetons, Wyoming," Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen Page 714 

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford - - = - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Edith P. Backman
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 42 NOVEMBER 1955 No. 11