[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Fiction | Title: Visiting | Author: Elliott]
[Visiting Teacher Messages: "Yea, We Can See that the Lord in His Great Infinite Goodness Doth Bless and Prosper Those Who Put Their Trust in Him" Edith S. Elliott]
for  the  brethren,  [visiting]  teachers  went 
out  and  got  enough  rags  to  make  50  yards. 
There  were  present  at  our  meeting  90 
women,  sewing  the  rags  in  answer  to 
President  Snow's  call.  It  was  one  of  the 
most  pleasant  meetings  ever  held,  though 
the  sisters  worked  until  their  bodies  were 
tired  and  their  fingers  ached  from  winding 
the  balls,  a  happier  group  would  be  hard 
to  find. 
designed  for  the  early  days  alone, 
nor  was  it  designed  only  for  women 
of  eras  that  are  past.  It  calls  to 
women  today  who  wish  to  develop 
themselves,  to  serve  their  fellows, 
and  forward  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
It  is  heartwarming  to  contemplate 
the  faithfulness  and  devotion  of  Re- 
lief Society  women  today  the  world 
over,  and  to  review  the  records  of 
their  accomplishments.  The  sisters 
are  devotedly  contributing  toward 
the  erection  of  temples  and  meet- 
inghouses, toward  welfare  projects 
and  other  Church  programs.  They 
are  ministering  to  the  sick  and 
homebound.  (Last  year  more  than 
235,475  ^^^^  visits  were  made.) 
They  are  teaching  one  another  the 
precepts  and  doctrines  of  the 
Church.  (Last  year  approximately 
13,000  women  were  engaged  in 
teaching  the  courses  of  study.  Under 
the  direction  of  Relief  Society,  more 
than  63,949  women  read  the  special 
assignments  from  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon.) The  sisters  are  training  one 
another  to  walk  in  the  paths  of 
righteousness  —  all  to  the  end  that 
they  may  build  for  themselves  and 
for  others  beautiful,  useful,  purpose- 
ful lives,  and  that  they  may  do  wom- 
an's part  in  building  the  kingdom  of 
God. 
The  spirit  with  which  the  work 
is  carried  forward  today  does  not 
differ  from  the  spirit  of  the  past. 
The  increased  number  of  Relief  So- 
ciety members  (now  over  156,000) 
make  their  contribution  to  the  work 
of  the  Church  a  sizeable  one.  Let 
me  read  you  a  typical  statement 
from  a  1954  annual  report  of  a  small 
ward  Relief  Society  with  an  average 
attendance  of  twenty  women. 
Relief  Society,  however,  was  not  I  am  happy  to  give  this  report  of  our

THE  REWARDS  OF  SERVICE  IN  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
721 
Relief  Society.  We  are  fully  organized. 
We  have  had  a  very  good  year  in  all  of 
our  activities  and  meetings. 
On  March  17  we  held  our  birthday 
party  in  the  form  of  a  luncheon  ....  In 
April  we  served  a  dinner  for  the  ward.  In 
May  during  a  Sunday  night  program  we 
presented  the  bishop  with  a  check  for 
$500  for  the  stake  building  fund.  In  July 
we  had  a  social  and  luncheon.  In  August 
we  participated  in  a  stake  dinner  lawn 
party.  On  August  13  and  14  we  held  a 
rummage  sale  ....  On  August  16  we 
gave  the  bishop  a  check  for  $100  to  be 
applied  to  the  ward  building  fund.  This 
makes  a  total  of  $900  given  from  our  So- 
ciety besides  the  $900  earned  by  us  at  the 
stake  dinner  we  served  for  the  stake  build- 
ing fund. 
In  October  we  had  our  opening  social 
with  fifty-two  persons  attending.  On  No- 
vember 7  the  Relief  Society  conference 
was  held. 
Our  class  leaders  are  some  of  the  best, 
and  they  give  wonderful  lessons.  We  have 
very  good  attendance  at  the  sewing  meet- 
ings and  have  had  some  very  good  home- 
making  demonstrations.  We  have  done 
much  compassionate  service,  far  more  in 
comparison  to  other  years.  The  Relief 
Society  sisters  of  our  ward  are  a  congenial 
group  and  we  have  plans  for  a  busy  1955. 
We  hope  and  pray  that  we  will  have  the 
blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father  to  help
