[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
[Literature: Rudyard Kipling;, the Man Who Was Briant S. Jacobs]
JLiterature — The  Literature  of  England 
Lesson  53— Rudyard   Kipling,  the  Man  Who  Was  (1865-1936) 
Elder  Bn2Lnt  S.  Jacobs 
(Textbook:  The  Literature  oi  England,  II,  Woods,  Watt,  Anderson,  pp.  951-959) 
For  Tuesday,  February  21,  1956 
Objective:  To  relate  Kiphng's  prose  to  his  life  pattern. 
"liTHEN  Kipling  died  in  January 
1936,  his  death  was  kept  from 
King  George  V,  himself  so  near 
death  that  he  followed  Kipling 
shortly  thereafter.  It  was  entirely 
fitting  that  these  two  men's  lives, 
double  symbols  of  the  glory  that  was 
England,  should  end  almost  togeth- 
er, for  each  symbolized  a  segment 
of  England's  past  greatness  which 
complemented  the  other.  Both  men 
had  been  born  in  the  same  year, 
1865,  yet,  in  1910,  when  George's 
reign  of  more  than  a  quarter-century 
began,  Kipling  was  already  being  re- 
ferred to  as  a  writer  prominent  in 
England's  past.  And  in  1910  so  he 
was,  and  had  been  for  almost  a 
decade. 
Thus  Kipling  survived  himself  by 
more  than  thirty-five — some  would 
say  forty-five  years.  Feeling  himself 
''a  stranger  of  an  unloved  race,"  he 
had  dodged  interviews  for  decades, 
and  almost  never  permitted  himself 
or  his  wife  to  be  photographed.  His

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
773 
death  at  age  seventy  caught  for  a 
moment  the  attention  of  two  gen- 
erations who  had  grown  up  since 
he  was  at  his  greatest,  generations 
whom  he  did  not  love,  generations 
who  had  built  England  into  a  pat- 
tern by  which  he  was  not  comforted. 
KipJfng  Triumphant 
Kipling  had  been  the  fair-haired 
trumpeter  for  the  world-circling 
British  Empire,  and  his  shiny  brass 
trumpet  blared  forth  the  deep- 
pitched,  jingling  rhythms  which 
gave  to  the  wealthy,  powerful,  and 
aggressive  England  of  the  nineties 
her  voice,  yes,  her  very  identity. 
'There  was  Rudyard  Kipling,  with 
the  gorgeous  East  and  the  British 
Empire  rattling  like  loose  change 
in  his  trouser  pockets.'' 
In  1907  Kipling  was  the  first  Eng- 
lishman to  receive  the  Nobel  Prize 
for  literature.  Surely  he  deserved 
it,  just  as  he  eminently  deserved  to 
be  appointed  Poet  Laureate  (though 
why  he  never  was  we  can  only  con- 
jecture). The  Nobel  Prize  award 
was  given  to  a  man  whose  writings- 
short  stories  and  poetry— share  so 
many  values  and  techniques  as  to 
be  inseparable.  To  discuss  one  with- 
out the  other  is  but  to  blur  even 
more  darkly  whatever  sense  of  unity 
exists  in  a  man  whose  personal  life, 
at  best,  was  one  of  mystery  and  with- 
drawal, and  who,  in  his  writings, 
somehow  kept  his  essential  self  sep- 
arate and  concealed  apart  from  his 
subject.  Particularly  is  this  true  in 
his  prose. 
Kipling  s  Style 
To  call  Kipling  /ournalistic  is  no 
term  of  dispraise;  it  is  merely  to 
point  out  that  his  mind  and  his 
prose  style  were  of  a  certain  stamp: 
terse,  clean-cut,  tight-knit,  and  load- 
ed with  a  vast  richness  of  observa- 
tional detail.  The  writer  Kipling 
was  ever  the  careful  craftsman  work- 
ing with  words,  the  most  slippery 
and  difficult  of  tools.  But  few  have 
cared  more  for  the  exact  word  than 
he,  and  probably  no  one  had  as 
much  influence  in  shaping  the  clean, 
clipped  style  of  writing  of  the 
twentieth  century  newspaper  and 
news  magazine.  After  all,  his  style 
was  consciously  envied  and  aped  and 
parodied  for  more  than  a  decade. 
This  dominating  influence  on  west- 
ern-world journalism  might  well  be 
his  most  substantial  contribution, 
difficult  though  it  might  be  to  pin 
down  and  identify. 
Kipling  s  Philosophy 
As  our  last  lesson  stated,  Kipling 
was  a  talented,  industrious,  middle- 
class  journalist  who  redefined  the 
term,  ''By  Jingo"  ["Jingoisms- 
blind,  unreasoning  patriotism  with 
an  element  of  agression  against 
foreign  countries],  who  loved  above 
all  else  British  authority  and  British 
soil,  and  who  spent  almost  the  last 
half  of  his  life  running  away  from 
himself  in  a  fruitless  attempt  to  find 
the  meaning  behind  an  existence 
which  increasingly  he  found  to  be 
cruel,  painful,  and  bitter.  The  first 
phase  of  his  life  might  well  be  rep- 
resented by  a  statement  he  made 
when  he  was  so  far  past  middle  age 
(and  hence  should  have  known  bet- 
ter) that  it  becomes  almost  ridicu- 
lous: 
God  has  arranged  that  a  cleancut  youth 
of  the  British  middle  classes  shall,  in  the 
matter  of  backbone,  brains,  and  bowels, 
surpass  all  other  youths. 
Yet  he  clung  to  his  belief  des-