[Vol24 | October 1937 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature for Missions]

Literature for Missions TYPICAL WOMEN IN THE CHURCH MELISSA JANE LAMBSON DAVIS Born in the United States "THE three women briefly considered in the foregoing lessons were born in Europe. But God's noble daughters are not all natives of the same land.
They are found in every country.
This is to be expected for they all have the same Father in Heaven, and each child of His has sparks of divinity within it. The subject of this sketch was American-born. She was chosen for study because she was in contact with and a part of the life of Utah from the earliest days until the present time, 1937. Her parents, Alfred B.
Lambson and Melissa Bigler Lambson, who lived in Nauvoo, were well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith and were sincerely devoted to their new religion and the Church.
They left Nauvoo with the exodus of the Saints in 1846 and began the trying and difficult journey to the West. Reaching Winter Quarters, Nebraska, on the Missouri River, the father prepared a dugout to house his family during their stay in the place and through the Winter of 1846-47. It was here their first child was born and named Melissa Jane.
This was November 13, 1846. In the Spring the Lambsons left to go with a company of Saints to the Rocky Mountains. Of course, the baby Melissa could remember nothing of the long and trying journey across the plains.
Suffice it to say, her family arrived in the Great Salt Lake Valley in September, 1847, only a few weeks after President Brigham Young and his company reached there. Her father soon began to build an adobe (sun-dried brick) house for the family, and when he finished it the following year, it was the first home in the Valley to have plastered rooms. But the plaster, like the adobes, was made of mud. The few nails used in the house were forged from wagon tires by her father on his anvil, Factory nails were not to be had.
Even home-made ones were so scarce they had to be used very sparingly. In the early days in the Valley to live was to work hard, to do without all kinds of conveniences, to make the few simple necessary things? houses, furniture, clothes, etc., and to eat the simplest foods.
Everyone worked and suffered; but all were optimistic and happy.
They endured all kinds of privations uncomplainingly, for they were free.
They had left persecution far behind. The air was pure, the sunshine bright, the LESSON DEPARTMENT enduring mountains, their shelter. That God was with them they never doubted. That He tried them severely they knew. Is not fine gold purified in the fiery furnace?
They must prove themselves to be worthy of God's blessings. Out of their struggles would rise a great people to go as messengers of glad tidings to the nations of the earth, and to build beautiful temples at home. To worship God and build up His Church was their great objective. To this end the parched land must be subdued and made habitable. So all set to work with a hearty goodwill. Melissa Jane, like all the other children of the time, grew up with the country, willingly doing her part as conditioned by her age. In childhood she saw her mother spin cotton and wool, weave the yarn into cloth, dye it with colors extracted from native weeds, cut it into patterns from which she made the family clothes.
Most other mothers among the Pioneers did these things also.
They made their knitted goods, wove their rag carpets, milked cows, made butter and cheese, raised fowls, tended their children, kept their homes and encouraged their husbands to worthy deeds. Yes, the women worked long hours and so did the men. But all were optimistic and happy, especially the children.
They were robust and healthful, therefore bubbling over with joyous youth as normal children are wont to do when circumstances permit. President Young was a wise and able leader. He knew that wholesome recreation was necessary to the welfare of his people. He encouraged them to sing and dance and engage in innocent amusements. He enjoyed music, drama and _ social gatherings. And so one of the earliest public buildings erected in Salt Lake City was the Social Hall, a 681 place where all these things could be indulged in.
This was later followed by the Salt Lake Theater, built in 1868, which became noted all over the dramatic world, on the stage of which many of the best English and American dramatists appeared. As she grew up Melissa Jane learned to do the things she saw her mother do.
Being the eldest child in the family, she was naturally called upon early in life to help with the younger children, and then gradually to help in other household work.
Sooner or later she shared with her mother in doing the various types of work incident to the household. To indicate the thrift of the home, Melissa Jane relates that when seven years old she was greatly in need of a new dress. One day while playing in the yard she found an old bacon sack that some Government surveyors had thrown away. She took it to her mother. The latter made some lye by soaking wood ashes. In this she soaked the sack to remove the grease.
From some weeds a coloring substance was obtained and the sack dyed brown.
From this the waist was made and the skirt from a piece of blue denim.
Many years later when recalling these incidents, Melissa Jane exclaimed, "My, how proud I was of my new dress!" Her parents, believing in education, as all Latter-day Saint parents were taught to do, sent Melissa to school during the school seasons of her girlhood years. Of course, the schools in those early days were poorly equipped physically. The rooms were usually small, poorly heated and ventilated, supplied only with crude furniture and wholly unattractive. But they were richly provided with something money cannot buy?sincerity, purity of purpose and the spirit of love. The atmosphere of the schools was wholesome, 682 indeed.
Faith in God was the comnon possession of pupils and teacher. Melissa Jane remembers one of the most exciting episodes in early Utah history?the coming of Johnston's Army. She vividly remembers the consternation produced by the announcement to 2,500 picnickers at the head of Big Cottonwood Canyon, 25 miles from Salt Lake City, that a United States Army was on its way to Utah. In Missouri and Illinois the Mormons had been pillaged, driven and killed by State troops.
They had fled from civilization and suffered heart-breaking agonies to find a place where they could live in peace among the mountains of the tar-away West. Now an unfriendly army was coming against them.
This news reached them when they were on holiday to celebrate the tenth anniversary, July 24, 1857, of the coming of the Pioneers to the Valley. The next day they returned to their homes with heavy hearts, for they were to move again and burn their homes rather than let them fall into the hands of their rapacious enemies. But it was not necessary for them to destroy their homes. The sending of the soldiers was due to a great blunder of the President of the United States.
When the misunderstandings had been cleared up, Johnston's Army entered the Valley peacefully, marched through Salt Lake City and made their camp forty miles southwest of the City. Melissa Jane said, "Though the coming of Johnston's Army was a most distressing episode, it proved to be a blessing in disguise. It was the means of providing the people with new wagons, needed supplies, etc., which the soldiers traded for grain and other farm crops."
Thus again the Lord overruled evil and good resulted. We have spoken above of some RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE types of recreation in which the people indulged in those days. Of course, there were others.
Speaking of her recreations Melissa Jane says: "We had our good times; we had corn husking 'bees', rag 'bees', candy pulls, etc. The candy was made by boiling down homemade molasses to a thick consistency and 'pulling' it.
During the fruit season the girls would often get together in the afternoons and prepare fruit for ? drying. In the evening the boys would come for dancing.
Many times we bought our tickets to shows and theaters with farm products? grain, fruits, vegetables, etc. I remember exchanging a squash or pumpkin for a ticket to the Salt Lake Theater. "We dried a great deal of fruit. I dried peaches and exchanged them at the store for goods to make my wedding dress. We felt it was a real luxury to have a dress of 'store goods'."
Such a dress made her wedding a particularly happy event, which took place November 25, 1865. She married Albert Wesley Davis. But he had no home of his own to which he could take his bride. So they lived for more than a year in one room of her father's house.
Here their first child was born. In those days young people were taught the desirability of marriage.
They were advised not to wait until they had a marriage stake?home and property.
Girls knew how to make and keep a home.
They expected to be real help-meets to their husbands. A girl thrilled at the thought of helping her husband to make a home. Melissa Jane Davis was this kind of a wife.
Shortly after the birth of their second baby, the Davis family was called to go to the Muddy country, just beyond the present southwest corner of Utah, to help settle the region. In the early days in Utah, LESSON DEPARTMENT President Young frequently ''called" a group of families to go out to some designated place and make their homes there.
Many of the Mormon towns in all the country round-about had their beginning by settlers thus called.
Thus the people were spread out, the available farm lands occupied and room made for the stream of emigrants that was flowing into Salt Lake City. But these colonizing ventures did not always succeed. The country was new. 'The climatic conditions were not well known.
People had not lived here long enough to learn the vagaries of the weather.
Among the very few failures was the venture on which the Davis family was called. The country during the summer was hot and dry. The rains were not spread over the season.
They came in the late summer after long periods of dryness in the form of cloud-bursts, causing floods. The Davis family responded to the call and went into the inhospitable country.
Their bedroom was a wagon box.
Their kitchen was a cone-shaped enclosure made by driving stakes into the ground and weaving willows through them. It had a door with willow hinges but no windows.
This structure was patterned after an Indian "wickiup."
Their food was scarce, and they ate anything they could get.
Some of the people lived on wild segos?small bulbs dug from the soil of the surrounding country. The summer heat was so intense that Sister Davis had to wrap wet cloths about her head to endure it. She said they all came down with the ague, and she went to bed every other day with chills. But a worse misfortune awaited them. The heavy rains resulted in floods that rushed away their crops leaving them wholly destitute.
Seeing their pitiable situation President 683
Young released the settlers from the call to reclaim the region and told them to move wherever they wanted to go. The Davis family returned to Salt Lake City, and were helped by relatives "to get on their feet." After finally recovering from the ague, they moved across the Jordan River on to a farm where they built a modest home in which they lived for many years, their children in the meantime numbering three sons and six daughters. The hard work on the farm was varied by public activities. Her husband became Bishop of the Ward, was a member for many years of the City Council of Salt Lake City, filled two missions for the Church, attended to other public duties and finally was ordained a Patriarch. Sister Davis also faithfully did her part, supporting her husband in all his activities, besides working in women's organizations. When their family was raised, she was called with her husband as an ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple. Sister Davis passed away, August 26, 1937 in her ninety-first year. The quality of her motherhood and service in the Church is indicated by her posterity. Her living posterity at this date consists of 7 children, 30 grandchildren, 43 great-grandchildren, and 2 great-great-grandchildren. Both sons have been on missions, have served in Bishoprics and several other Church positions; the daughters are all active Church workers, one of them on the Relief Society General Board, another on the Primary General Board, and another was a Relief Society General Board member when she died. The others are working on Stake and Ward Boards. All the daughters and many of the grandchildren have been or are now members of choirs. All grandsons who are old enough
hold positions in the Priesthood quorums and in auxiliary organizations. Her posterity is "true to the faith." They have seen in her righteous life an example worthy of emulation.
Questions For Discussion
1. Point out that Melissa Jane Davis was "born of goodly parents."
2. What qualities of character did her parents exhibit?
3. Which of these qualities did Sister Davis exhibit?
4. Tell why the journey from Nauvoo to Salt Lake City was trying and difficult.
5. Tell why her parents came to Salt Lake City.
 . Outline some of the conditions prevailing in Salt Lake City during the first years.
7. Name one or two things President Young did that show he was a wise and able leader.
8. What school advantages did Melissa have?
9. What were the motives that took Melissa's parents to the Muddy country?
10. Tell why you think she was a good wife and mother.
11. A fine posterity proves fine qualities in the parents, especially in the mother. Point out that Sister Davis' faith and nobility of character were rewarded.
Child Guidance Lesson 4
SEX EDUCATION
CURIOSITY about sex is as natural to the child as his inquiries about how the moon got up in the sky or what makes the flowers bloom. The great problem in sex education is to teach the child that home is the most reliable and ready source of sex information he can find. Restraints of good taste require that sex questions be discussed privately. But the child should not be made to feel that all that pertains to sex is low and wicked. Lack of reliable knowledge and repression of all discussion leads to a furtive interest which is finally satisfied in the alley. This information is not only unreliable, but it is tainted with vulgarism, which is an obstacle to the proper idealizing of love.
A child is curious about sex at first in exactly the same manner as he is curious about the beating of his heart or the working of his stomach. There is nothing wicked in his thoughts. Physically he is not mature sexually until he is about fifteen years of age. Sex, therefore, does not mean the same thing to him that it does to an adult whose moral attitudes about the whole problem are highly developed. Adult attitudes are so different from those of the child that children's questions are most likely to embarrass their parents. The child asks questions out of sheer curiosity in all it sees; the parent answers with expressions of shame and secrecy?and these are adult attitudes which in no way satisfy the child's need for information. When the parent scolds a child for asking where babies come from, she makes him afraid to ask that question again and many others that trouble his mind. A sense of shame is easily cultivated in the child,
and this feeling drives him from his mother's side to children in the streets or back yards for his information. Curiosity is not checked by refusal of information, but is rather stimulated and made secretive. Children will find some kind of answers to their questions whether we relish the thought or not.
An unfortunate result of refusing unemotional and truthful answers to sex questions is that the parent alienates herself from the child in a field in which her wise counsel will be most needed later on. Some parents fear that the child will lose his innocence when he is told the truth, and that knowledge will somehow lead to experiment. In sex education, knowledge must come before experiment. Knowledge properly given will probably dispose, to a certain extent, of the desire and need for experiment. Secret sex experiments and the resulting perversions undoubtedly often arise and persist because the inquiring child is driven from his mother's side to secret places where there are no controls over his conduct. In other words, to guide the child's sex development, the mother must keep him coming to her with his questions.
Children occasionally ask sex questions as early as two years. The period of greatest questioning comes between four and ten years, and quite a large per cent ask their first sex question at five years. Questions most frequently asked pertain to the origin of babies, coming of another baby, growth before birth, the process of birth, sex organs and their functions, physical differences between the sexes, the father's part in reproduction and the meaning of marriage.
A mother must have some sort of accurate knowledge of the facts be-
fore she can answer these questions reliably. To the question. "Where do babies come from?" such answers as "From Heaven" or "God sends them" are theologically correct, but not suited to the intellectual needs of the child. He may seek more details from an unreliable and vulgar source if you do not supply them.
For a small child, four or five years old, surprisingly simple but accurate answers often satisfy. An example follows:
Billy, six years old, asked his mother 'What did I grow from?"
Mother: "You grew from a tiny cell, much tinier than the point of a pin. You lived in my body until you were strong enough and large enough to be born. Then you came outside."
Billy: "Why do mothers go to the hospital?"
Mother: "Because a doctor has to help the baby come out, and has to cut and tie the cord through which the mother feeds the stomach of the baby. The mother is rather tired by the time this has happened, so she stays and rests a few days at the hospital."
Billy: (throwing arms around Mother): "Oh, poor mother!"
Mother: "Oh, it isn't 'poor Mother', Billy, at all. Mother is so happy to have a new baby."
Billy: "Well, I wouldn't want it to happen to me!"
To speak to a child in this manner is not easy for most parents. Use of the proper names for sex organs and the steps in reproduction relieves some of the emotional tension. Correct terms are preferred because they can be found in scientific literature which the child will need in his later education, and because correct terms are not emotionally colored as is the slang of the street. Analogies from domestic animals,
birds and plants are often useful, partly because a child's curiosity often arises from watching their mating and growth. Sometimes a chicken which is being prepared in the kitchen is useful in illustrating what is meant by eggs or seeds and the appropriate comparison drawn to the human body.
When parents are advised to freely impart knowledge of this kind, certain cautions are to be kept in mind. First, the curiosity of the child should be the guide as to how much should be told. Mental growth of the child will call for more information at different stages of development. But he should not be put off by "Oh, you are too young to ask questions like that." Some questions cannot be fully explained to the child until his mind grows to a certain stage, but there is no excuse for not making an attempt to satisfy the child with something as near the full truth as he can grasp.
This freedom of conversation between parent and child should always be qualified by a certain good taste that calls for a degree of privacy, if not secrecy. The child should be taught that sex questions are private among themselves in the home, that just as people do not enter others' houses without their clothes on, neither should they talk about sex with people outside the home. If a child comes in with a vulgar expression from the street, the parent should realize that he has not yet acquired all of the emotional associations of the words that an adult has. The mother should teach the child the correct words and show him that they are the ones used by the home folks and that it is a home matter that should not be talked about on the street, nor generally with groups of people even at home. Careful cautioning will soon teach
most children the good taste of not raising sex questions in public and not carrying newly acquired information to everyone in the neighborhood. This accomplished, the parents' problem is greatly simplified, and much of the strain of the educational program is removed.
An intelligent program of sex education throughout pre-adolescence (up to about twelve or thirteen years) should keep relations of companionship between the parents and child that make possible the lending of a helping hand through the troubled years of romance. Most children cease asking questions after ten years of age, perhaps because the parents have closed the door by then through withholding information and by administering lectures which show a lack of understanding of the child's problems. Adolescents have problems which require more intelligent help than ever before in their lives, and useful is the parent who is still "in with" her child at this age. If the proper attitudes and controls have been developed during the previous years, the adolescent child will be well fortified to meet his problems. This would mean that he has been well prepared for marriage and family life by having acquired a proper knowledge of sex matters such as would tend to free him from some of the emotional handicaps that lack of knowledge often produces, and handicaps that so frequently contribute to the difficulties that interfere with marital happiness. At the same time, close harmony between the parent and child should have cultivated the controls that make him desirable as a virtuous candidate for marriage.
Home, including both parents, should be the primary source of knowledge and ideals in sex education. However, there is no question
but that M. I. A. Activities and courses of study are important influences in harnessing the vital energies at a critical period of life, and in engendering the family ideals which characterize the Latter-day Saint home. To teach that happy home and love life is the reward of good living is a far more promising educational procedure than to emphasize too much the punishments of a wicked life. Latter-day Saint ideals of home life are invaluable incentives toward wholesome living. Sex education should be directed toward making the home more secure and more happy.
Problems for Discussion
1. Contrast the attitude of the child toward sex questions with the
attitude of the adult. Why are their attitudes so different? 2. Discuss the courageousness of the parent who "turns off" all of the child's sex questions because to discuss them is "so embarrassing." What evil arises from "silence"? 3. What is your opinion as to whether sex information tends to preserve or destroy the virtue of the child? 4. State some cautions you think are important in guiding the parent in giving information to the child. 5. What part should "good taste" play in sex education? Distinguish between good taste on the one hand, and evasion, prudish shame and secrecy on the other hand.