[Vol24 | October 1937 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The Visiting Hale]
SISTER HALE: You remember the saying, "Smile and the world smiles with you. Weep and you weep alone."
SISTER Evans: Now that's an idea. (looking at Sister Hale) When you feel lonely, wouldn't you like to go over and help Sister Jones, who is overworked with her patching and darning? I know you would be well paid when you see how much it would help her. It's several months since your husband left, and you have done nothing to help yourself.
THE VISITING TEACHER
SISTER JOHNSON: What can I do?
Sister Hale: Sister Johnson, I met a dear old gentleman the other day who passed on a wonderful plan to those who are left alone, with nothing to do. He and his wife had been married fifty-five years, and for the last fifteen years they had been Temple workers. They were an ideal couple and had a large family who are accredit to them. The dear wife passed away after a short illness and for a time his grief was almost more than he could bear. A friend started to sympathize with him, but he said, "Of course I miss her but she wouldn't want me to mourn. I will be here for such a short time. I must be kept busy. There are so many looking to me to do their work that I haven't time to waste feeling sorry for myself.
SISTER Evans: Isn't that a wonderful way to feel? Have you ever thought of doing work for the dead?
SISTER Hale: Or the living too? Why not try forgetting yourself.
SISTER JOHNSON: (Glancing at the card and smiling) I am going to help Sister Jones. Tell me more how I can help my neighbor?
Mrs. THORPE: Why Mrs. Johnson, it is a long time since I saw you smile.
SISTER HALE: One sure way is to attend your Relief Society meetings. Associate with the kind of women who go there. We have wonderful teachers in each line and you couldn't go there without feeling the wonderful spirit and returning smile for smile. The first Tuesday is Theology, the second, Work and Business or Handicraft, the third, Literature, and the fourth, Social Service.
Mrs. THORPE: I am very interested in literature.
Sister Hale: Would you like to attend our Relief Society with Sister Johnson?
645
Mrs. THORPE: I would love to, but I thought it was for only members of your church.
Sister Hale: Anybody is welcome.
Sister Evans: We need visiting teachers too, people who are willing to work can always find a place that just suits them. So you see you can be a good Samaritan in more ways than one. I will leave this magazine. You can read the lesson. (teachers arise)
SISTER JOHNSON: Wait until I get my old cracked tea cup.
Mrs. THORPE: I thought you ladies never drank tea. (All laugh)
SISTER JOHNSON: We don't, but I keep my nickles and dimes in it for my Relief Society donation. (Hands to Sister Evans, who records it in book.)
Sister Hale: (shakes hands) I believe we have found some one who will be a good Samaritan to her neighbor. Goodbye, and God bless you both. (Sister Johnson goes to door with teachers.)
Mrs. THORPE: This magazine is open to a poem.
SISTER JOHNSON: Oh read it to me.
"They planted a seed in my heart that day And it grew from that tiny thing, Till it filled my heart with a new desire, Gave my soul a truer ring.
"My only thought was of work undone Timely tasks so hard to do. When the mind is tired, 'tis a tragic thing, It seems one never gets through.
"But they came to my door with a smile for me, A hand clasp of love and cheer, And I rested a bit as we talked that day, Till my mind began to clear.
"They brought me a message that lifted me up, Gave me courage to face that day,
646
Gave me hope and strength to go on again, But in a different way.
"Did they know they had given all that to me? Can they know the good they do, The souls they lift, the hearts they cheer,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The seeds they planted that grew?
"May they have God's blessings with them always As each day they do their part, May He ever be near them with those gifts, They gave to the other heart."
