[WomansExponent | Vol1 | 1872 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: FACTS AND FIGURES. | Author: Unknown]

﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	ENGLAND allows its paupers two shillings
and sixpence (62c.) a week to live on.
	THE Bishop of Philadelphia proposes to
cure the horse disease with prayer.
	THE Knights of St. Patrick of St. Louis
talk of a $25,000 monument to the memory
of Daniel O’Connell.
	TWO hundred thousand gallons of wine
were made at Yountville this season and
100,000 gallons of brandy.	
	THE statute of Chief Justice Taney was
upon the pedestal at Annapolis, Md., on the 
21st of November. It represents Taney in 
a sitting posture.
	THE "Papal Index,” contains the names
of nineteen books which the Holy Father
prohibits. Among them is Dr. Buchner’s 
“Force and Matter.”
	THE Boston “Pilot,” twice burnt out,
says: “We are just about tired of this 
phoenix business. We don’t want to rise
nobly from our ashes any more.”
	EX-President Hopkins, of Williams Col-
lege, has been invited by the graduates of
that institution resident in Troy, N. Y., to
lecture in that city on Professor Tyndall’s 
“Prayer Gauge.”
	THE working girls in the Arlington woolen 
mills have sent to Jennie Collins eighty-one
dollars for the sewing girls of Boston, who
have lost their work by the fire.
	INDIANAPOLIS boasts of a contractor who
can neither read, write, nor figure, and yet
can accurately estimate the number of bricks
for a wall of given dimensions, and the cost
of construction.
	CARDWELL, the British War Minister, 
has sanctioned the introduction of playing
cards into the soldiers’ recreation room as
an experiment in the way of weaning soldiers
from the public houses.
	COLONEL Thomas A. Scott has completed
contracts for transporting supplies, provi-
sions and laborers, and 25,000 tons of iron to
be used in building the transcontinental
railroad, which begins at the end of the
Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railroad.
	A MAN’S total outward work, his whole
effect opon the world in twenty-four hours,
has been reckoned about 350 foot-tons. That
may be taken as a good “hard day’s work.”
During the same the heart has been working
at the rate of 120 foot-tons. That is to say,
if all the pulses of a day and night could be
concentrated and welded into one great
throb, it would be enough to throw a ton of
iron 120 feet into the air.
	IF the following is not a “Fact,” it ought
to be. We are personally positive of many
facts not half so good; and the figuring is
certainly excellent, showing that Ohio,
with all its intemperance has still some true
husbands, and it is to be hoped they are
justly appreciated:  “The epizootic has de-
veloped in Cleveland, Ohio, among other
things a vast deal of marital devotion. The
wife of one gentleman desired to attend the
Patti concert, but was in feeble health and
unable to walk. The husband put her into
a stout baby carriage, and proceeded straight-
way to the hall where Patti was to sing; and
at the close of the entertainment he trundled 
his wife home in the same style.  Another
wife desired to attend the wedding of a
friend, some distance away from her resi-
dence; but the horses were all sick and a
carriage could not be had for love or money.
Carefully wrapping her up and placing her
on the seat of a high buggy, the husband
took his place between the thills, and for
the nonce ‘played horse’ most successfully.”


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Written for the EXPONENT.
	IMPORTANT EVENTS OF ONE YEAR.
				    ——
		A HOLIDAY SKETCH BY L. L. 
				      —
	It was New Year’s Eve, 1863, and we were
having a regular nice time.  There had
been a shooting match, father was on the
winning side, and was to take supper with
Mr. W., who was to pay for both tickets to
the ball that evening as well. We were all
going to the ball, all but mother and the
little folks, and with those exceptions my
“all,” includes my father, three sisters, a
brother-in-law and myself.
	How clear and bright the hall was, and
how happy every one appeared! It seemed
to me, my sisters had never looked so well
as upon that New Year’s Eve, and they
enjoyed themselves so much and were so
unconscious of self, that I delighted in
watching them. It was not strange, either,
that I should very much admire the taste of
an intelligent lady, who remarked to me,
that the figure of my sister Maud was really
the finest in the room. I wonder if Mr. A.
remembers how I danced a reel with him
that evening? He was so awkward and un-
managable that, beginning at the head of
the set, when “down the centre” came for
us, I marched him to the foot and there
remained, and he still imagines, for ought I
know, that we went through the whole change
as did the others. My sister Eva, who was
dancing in the same set, laughed so much
that I almost became plagued over it. The
only unpleasantness that occurred, was that I
had to go home before I wanted to—I was
only fourteen,
	Three hundred and sixty-five days sped
by us, one after another, bringing each its
varying scenes. During that little period
one sister gave to earth a tiny, new inhabit-
ant; Eva was wooed, wen and wedded, and
another sister left us to return no more. In
less than six months time, birth, marriage
and death were all visitants of our family
circle.
	Yet there was no gloom around our fire-
side, as we sat and listened to father’s grave,
or humorous stories; and Maud and I 
repeated dialogues and sung songs and
hymns, on New Year's Eve, 1864.


ABUNDANTLY PROTECTED.—It was one
evening last Summer when a lady who be-
longs on the editorial staff of one of the
leading dailies of New York, had been
detained by office duties until rather a late
hour. Living on the Heights in Brooklyn,
but a short distance from Fulton Ferry, it
was not much of a venture to go home with-
out an escort, and so she started. On the
boat, standing outside enjoying the breeze
after the day’s toil, she perceived a gentle-
man (?) in rather close proximity to where
she was, but said nothing.
	“Are you alone?” said he, as the boat
neared the shore.
	“No, sir,” said the lady; and without
further interruption, when the boat touched,
she stepped off.
	"I thought you were not alone,” said the
fellow, stepping to her side again.
	“I am not,” replied the lady.
	“I don’t see any one. Who is with you?”
	“God Almighty and the angels; I’m never
alone.”	
	“You keep too good company for me,
madame; good night!” and he shot for a
Fulton Avenue car, then nearly a block
away. The heroic woman was permitted
to keep to “the right as the law directs,”
and enjoy that full measure of quiet satisfac-
tion one always feels from keeping good
company.


