Hindu Temple Frontispiece
======================================================================

HINDU TEMPLE, LUCKNOW, INDIA. 
 
 Temples. Mary Foster Gibbs All religious forms are symbolic in their character. The mind of man is peculiar, in that memory is short and impressions are fleeting. In order to retain and maintain an attitude of devotion, one must be constantly reminded of his obligations and promises with his heavenly Father. If it were not for the Sabbath day, and certain rituals and observances of that day throughout the Christian world — if in any way this day and its peculiar observances were abolished for any length of time, the second generation would be almost devoid of reverence for the Savior, and the next generation would no doubt forget that such a Being existed. The Sabbath was indeed made for man that he might remember and, through remembering, so discipline his spirit, his earthly desires and mortal selfish propensities, that he would thereby obtain salvation and achieve self control. For this purpose the Lord has given to his earth-born children a series of symbolic observances for daily use, for the Sabbath and for birth, baptism, marriage and death periods, which keep the mind quickened and the will tempered to spiritual laws and final self mastery, when the human will shall conform in every particular with the Divine Will. That we obey divine law is not so much a benefit to our heavenly Father as it is a great and lasting benefit to ourselves. He loves us and when he sees us obeying true and righteous laws, he is gratified and rejoices, just as earthly parents rejoice when their children are good and obedient. In this stage of existence, which is a condition of struggle and darkness, we need constant help and guidance to keep our feet in the straight and narrow way. For this purpose, then, the Lord gave his earliest prophets and teachers a series of symbolic rites and ceremonies which would instruct the mind and inspire the heart through the forms that appeal to the eye: gave rituals and ceremonies that enter the brain through the medium of eye, 624 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. ear and hand. For instance, the daily prayer, in which the knee is bowed and the eye is closed, permits the heart and lips to voice gratitude and renew appeals for continued help. The mind is the more concentrated because of shutting out the surroundings by closed eyes; kneeling not only indicates humility but actually induces that state of mind by the bending of the body thus symbolizing the subjection of the will to a Higher power. The great, fundamental truth of earthly existence is the offering of the Savior for the sins of the world. It is impossible to believe that our Father would acquaint only the small handful of his children known as the Hebrews and earlier the Semites with this foundation fact. We know from the Pearl of Great Price that an angel taught Adam to offer sacrifice; and no doubt, he carried that lesson on to his descendants, until Noah himself came out of the ark and built an altar of sacrifice and thanksgiving. Noah must have taught his three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, the correct pattern of the sacrificial rite, although history proves that Shem alone maintained the rite in its simplicity and correctness. The Assyrians and the Babylonians built great winding towers or temples. The Jaredites and Nephites built temples; the Egyptian, the Persian, the East Indian, the Chinese and Japanese, even the Greeks and the Romans, built temples to their gods. Yet, strange to say, after the great culmination of sacrifice in the crucifixion of our Lord, sacrificial rites amongst all people gradually died out and were abolished. After the destruction of the temple, seventy years subsequent to the crucifixion, even the Jews themselves retained only a shadow of their former services and rituals: most of them being lost through their lack of an abiding place. The ceremonies and rituals which marked the original temple ordinance work became necessarily corrupted and changed, as the sons of Japheth and Ham lost the true gospel and multiplied idols to themselves. It is difficult to worship God in spirit only. Abstract worship is impossible to children and undeveloped intelligences: while, on the other hand, the more highly trained the intellect, the more abstract becomes the spiritual concept, until the simple things of the kingdom of God are sometimes completely lost sight of in philosophical abstractions. Associated with the keystone principle of sacrifice were various ordinances which attended the vital events of life; birth, christening, or circumcision, baptism, confirmation, marriage, and death, were provided with symbolic rituals and ceremonies by all the ancient peoples both savage and civilized. Indeed, even today, in the hard, matter-of-fact life of the most unbelieving modern citizen, there enters certain symbols which mark his en- TEMPLES. 625 trance into the world, his marriage ties, and his death, or passing into eternity. The man who takes his oath of allegiance to a country takes part at once in a symbolic ceremony with his uplifted hand to a symbolic agent of a so-called government, which is a word symbol of a potentate or a group of republican people. If he offers his right hand in greeting to his friend he participates in a symbolic revival of the oriental custom of the plainsman who covenants to preserve the safety of the man to whom he offers his right hand, which is his sword hand. All ceremonies and rituals in ancient temples as in most modern churches were and are attended with music, processions and costumes, in some churches the survival of incense offering, and rich vestments, still obtains — notably in Catholic and Episcopalian churches. The ministers of all other churches, except, perhaps, our own Church, wear certain collars and coats which mark their profession. Up to the time of the Savior's coming upon the earth, sacrifice was a necessary part of the daily service in the Hebrew and Nephite temples, and of most pagan temples. With his crucifixion that symbol was fulfilled; the Lord's Supper supplanted that ordinance; but the ceremony and rituals pertaining to the daily worship of God and to the supreme events in the individual's life, as well as the strict observance of the Sabbath day, must needs be maintained throughout the subsequent ages. With the passing of the "bride into the wilderness," and the apostasy of the Church of Christ, there ceased the knowledge and practice of many of the fundamental observances which were taught by Christ and his apostles to their disciples; and which observances and rites were, many of them, the same as those offered by the ancient Hebrews. Christ said he came to fulfill the law, not to destroy it. Afterwards the ordinances were changed, and the everlasting gospel was clouded with error and apostasy. The gospel was restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the primitive ordinances were later revealed to him in their simplicity and purity. Then came the need of a temple and temples, for in them only could be given the higher keys and gifts and blessings which would prepare men and women for their final exaltation. Baptism which is a symbolic ordinance, and the laying on of hands which is another symbolic ordinance, could be performed without temples: but marriage for eternity, as well as all ordinances which pertained to baptism for the dead, with sealing, and the adoption of children to parents for the dead, could not possibly be administered except in temples built and dedicated for that purpose. That the Jews had knowledge of some of these principles and ordinances for the dead is amply attested in the scriptures as we shall disclose in later articles. 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Let us now inquire somewhat into such remnants and scraps of knowledge as we have concerning ancient temples and the rites and sacrifices therein offered: Temples or particular houses of worship have been used by man since he first erected shelter for himself and for his deity; rather let us say for his God first, and then for himself. The poet tells us that trees were God's first temples. That may well be in the poetic sense, but certainly it is true that man early realized the necessity of a separate building in which to offer up sacrifice, to practice religious rites, and to gather the people on stated occasions for worship and commemorative services. No people so ancient, so learned, nor so simple, but erected in some form a temple or edifice dedicated to the worship of God. We must not think that the three successive temples built by the Hebrews in ancient Jerusalem, were the only temples known to the ancient people of the world. Solomon's temple, built by himself in the year 1000 B. C., and destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar about 586 B. C., rebuilt by Ezra and Nehemiah after the captivity about 537 B. C., was re-built again by Herod the Great, just before the Savior's day, was destroyed seventy years after. These temples were practically one and the same, and the ordinances practiced therein remained practically the same from generation to generation. They were constructed under direct revelation from God, and, except as the rites and ceremonies became dead forms and symbols, remained correct until the Crucifixion. The Jerusalem temple retained the heavenly patterns revealed to Moses and known by the generations following. It may be probable that the ante-diluvian patriarchs built such edifices, but if so these were destroyed in the flood. Abraham and his direct descendants were shepherd kings and moved about from place to place, therefore their altars were temporary and their rites were simple. Of this we will say more later on. Before taking up the correct temple pattern as revealed to Moses, and inquiring into the rites and ceremonies practiced by the chosen people of God, let us acquaint ourselves somewhat as we may with the temples and religious practices of other ancient people. EAST INDIAN OR HINDU TEMPLES. Perhaps as old a people as lived their separate existence, both in ancient and modern times, were the descendants of Japheth who inhabited the peninsula of East India. Their traditions point to stories of an earlier savage race whom the Aryans con- TEMPLES. 627 quered. Like all descendants of Japheth they were astute, fond of cultural development, philosophic and thrifty in civic and domestic life. Unquestionably they brought with them the Japhetic traditions of sacrifice, of altars, of temples, of rites and ceremonies. There is a curious point associated with the sacrificial practices of ancient Hindus; few of them so far as we know offered human or animal sacrifices. The fruits of the field, prepared foods, and liquids, with even clothing and jewels, constituted their votive offerings. © Underwood '& Underwood, New York BURNING BODIES IN GHAT AT BENARES, INDIA. Is there in this fact an echo of the rebellious Cain who would not or did not comply with the direct instructions of father Adam in the offering of the symbolic sacrificial lamb? Cain chose rather to place upon his altar the fruits and grains of the field. One wonders if he claimed superior humanitarian motives in thus disobeying 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. his father's example and teachings. Be that as it may, we know that he did not scruple to take his brother's, or human life, when filled with the passion of jealous anger. The temples of the Hindus which were at first very simple, gradually became ornately enriched with marble and precious stones and wonderfully elaborate. They were artists, these early Hindus, and their achitecture is exquisitely beautiful especially in their temple construction. We know of two sacrificial rites practiced by this ancient people. One was known as the sacrificial fire, which was a sacrifice offered to the gods of nature, such phenomenon as the sun, the moon, thunder, lightning, rain — all these were looked upon as manifestations of the gods. The sacrifices offered were food and drink, some of which was poured into the fire. The fire that consumed these offerings became thereby specially sacred. This rite offered was private at first and was common by all the people and was accompanied with hymns, chants or charms. But the whole service was finally appropriated exclusively by the priests or magic men. The priest elaborated upon the simple Fire-Cult, and developed an expensive and elaborate ceremony of three sacred fires, with incantations and hymns. The hymns were called the Rig-Veda. At these three-fire sacrificial performances the ordinary poor men could not engage as they became expensive and costly. So the poor were permitted a simple daily rite to their gods with one fire only. These three-fire sacrificial rites celebrated births, marriages, and funeral ceremonies, amongst the aristocracy. The nature of them, therefore, prevented them from becoming periodic, as was the case with the one daily religious fire offered by priest and people alike. We know very little about the rituals and ceremonies which were connected with the temple services. It may well be that they were kept sacred and secret as in all other temples. The priests gradually became very grasping and sordid; translating the spirit oi true sacrifice into corrupted greed, and hence the Vedic sang, "Give to me; I give to thee." "Enjoy the soma, satisfy thyself with it; then turn thy mind to the giving of riches," says a Rigvedic poet. "The gods wanted sacrifices, of food and drink, accompanied by hymns, which were always an integral part of the sacrifice, and in which the gods took an aesthetic pleasure." Another sacrificial function which was the most aristocratic rite of all was the soma-drink, offered to the god Soma. This drink was intoxicating and very expensive. In the passing centuries this rite was combined with the three-fire-cult, and the priests only officiated in the temples. The Hindus worship many gods. We are told by Dr. J. A. TEMPLES. 629 Montgomery that, "there is, for instance, the majestic Varuna — perhaps the leading god. of the prehistoric Ido-Iranians, as he at least became the leading god of the historic Persians (under the name of Ahura Mazda). It is declared in the Veda, too, that he is the greatest of gods, the guardian of the world-order, the righteous king and judge of the universe, the punisher of all evil. In short, he is described as a veritable Hindu Yahweh." Connected with this sacrificial offering were many hymns; indeed, the whole religious ritual consisted mainly of hymns, or invocations. All that we know today of their ancient religions is learned from these hymns or invocations to the gods. In the end the tenets and beliefs of their religion became an abstraction and finally their sacrificial rites were forgotten. So philosophic, so subtly abstract, did their creeds become that they finally adopted a conception of God which sounds very much like the present day Christmas' own idea of God the eternal Father. We quote from Montgomery. "Says the Upanishadic teacher Uddalaka Aruni to his son: What that subtle essence is, a having-that-as-its-nature is this universe; that is the Real, that is the Soul, that art Thou, Cvetaketu!" And even more clearly and magnificently the great teacher Yajnavalkya declares: That which rests in all things, and is distinct from all things, which all things know not, of which all things are the body (that is, the material representation or form), which controls all things within, that is thy Self (atman), the immortal Inner Controller. * * * The Unseen Seer, the Unheard Hearer, the Unthought Thinker, the Unknown Knower. This is thy self, the immortal Inner Controller. Whatever is other than this is evil." Associated with their religion and entwined with it for several centuries was the transplanted belief in Buddha. The Brahmins, as the Viedic priests were called, had believed in transmigration of souls; that is, that the reborn soul of man was sent into living creatures of all classes and that his spirit had evolved from rocks, trees and had risen up through the various stages of animal life into that of a human being. If he did well in life he would be re-born under better circumstances. If not, he would be sent back into the animal creation. Buddhism did not go so far, but we shall treat that belief in a latter paper. Beyond