[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: Old Folks’ Day | Author: Unknown]

OLD FOLKS’ DAY.
PRESIDENT SNOW’S ADDRESS READ BY
HIS SON, LE ROI C. SNOW.
	My brethren and sisters and dear friends,
am delighted to be with you on this hap-
py occasion. I feel that I am in the pres-
ence of men and women who are distin-
guished, not alone for the many years they
have lived among us, but for their purity
of life, their strength of character, their ex-
emplary habits, and above all, for their un-
wavering integrity to God. I congratu-
late you all on having lived so long and so
worthily upon the earth. Like myself,
you have been in this stage of action quite
a few years, and I am satisfied that the
Lord has had His eye over you for good.
certainly acknowledge His hand in the
preservation of my life up to the present
time. I am now in my eighty-eighth year,
and I know it is through the mercy and
blessing of God that I am here today,
privileged to join with you in this unique
gathering.
	These Old Folks’ excursions are aus-
picious and enjoyable events, and all who
are over seventy years of age look forward
to them, no doubt, with considerable
pleasure. They have become so celebrated
that their fame has spread abroad, and men
from afar have looked upon them with
commendation and have greatly admired
the motive which inspires them. They
furnish an example that could with profit
be followed by other communities in the
world, for they are the legitimate fruits of
a spirit and sentiment that should prevail
aniong all people, bespeaking the brother-
hood of man and the fatherhood of God.
These gatherings bear witness to the fact
that among the Latter-day Saints, at least
there is love and respect for the aged, and
a desire to bless and make them happy.
This feeling so manifested cannot help but
command the admiration of all honorable

[Colmun 2]
men and women, and it certainly is pleas-
ing to our Father in heaven, whose sons
and daughters we are; and He will most
surely bless all those who labor so unsel-
fishly and indefatigably to make these an-
nual outings a success.
	It is truly gratifying to see so many
“old folks" among us. Perhaps in no
other part of the world are there so many
aged ones, in proportion to the population,
as can be found in Utah. I regard this as
due to the observance by the people of
those wholesome, health-giving laws which
the Lord has given for our guidance in the
care of our bodies supplemented by His
divine favor towards us. Among us, I am
happy to say, old age is honorable, and re-
garded as a blessing from the Lord. It is
our duty to desire to live long upon the
earth, that we may do as much good as we
possibly can. I esteem it a great privilege
to have the opportunity of living in
mortality. The Lord has sent us here
for a wise and glorious purpose and it
should be our business to find out what
that purpose is, and then order our lives
accordingly.
******
	A few day ago I was at a large gather-
ing in this magnificent pavilion, of
Primary children, and had a very happy
time with them. They were children who
are on the threshold of life, and the ques-
tion of whether or no they will faithfully
carry out the object of their existence and
be true to God cannot yet be answered; but
here is a body of men and women who are
so far advanced in life as to be nearing the
end, and who have lived such lives of
faithfulness and devotion that it may truly
be said of them that, they have carried out
the purpose of their existence here and
their ultimate success is assured. I rejoice
with you in the fact that after all these
years you are still journeying on the road
to exaltation and eternal life. I know that
your lives have not been all sunshine; you
have doubtless passed through many a
trial, and perhaps have come up through
much tribulation; but by continued integ-
rity you will soon emerge from the shad-
ows into the glorious sunshine of the
celestial world.
******


[Column 1]
