[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: Now is the Time | Author: Unknown]

NOW IS THE TIME.
	Attention is directed to the announce-
ment of Lorenzo Snow and Joseph F. Smith
of the donation of a valuable piece of
property facing the Salt Lake Temple, on
which to erect a building devoted to the
interests of the Relief Society, Mutual Im
provement Association and Primary Asso-
ciation, making it in all respects a woman’s
building for Church auxiliary purposes.
The situation of the real estate thus appro-
priated renders it not only of great pecu-
niary value, but of such surroundings as
will make it attractive to all who are con-
nected with these Church institutions.
The sisters are bestirring themselves to ob-
tain the necessary funds among these
societies for the erection of a building suit-
able to them all. It is a work worthy of
their energies, and we are sure that with
the devotion and earnestness which attends
all their labors, they will succeed in accom-
plishing the end they have in view. The
Deseret News cordially supports the move-
ment and now urges upon the people, young
and old to aid as far as they possibly can in
the construction of this woman’s building
so that it may stand as a monument of the
faith and works of the women and children
in the Church, such as will not only attest
their interest in the work of salvation and
elevation of mankind, but be eminently
useful to them in the special work entrusted
to those associations. Do what you can,
and do it at once!—Deseret News.


A Kindergarten Convocation will be-
held at Westminister Church, Buffalo, N.
Y., on July 1, 2 and 3.
	Queen Helena, of Italy, has received
from her husband, King Victor Emanuel
III., a compliment never before paid to
any queen consort. He has decreed that
her head, not his, shall appear on the new
Italian postage stamps.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah at
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1901.


