[Vol1 | April 1914 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Home_Ethics | Title: Home Ethics.... 6]

HOME ETHICS Lesson IV. (Twenty Minutes.) Ten minutes talk on Current Events. (a) Respect and mutual interest in the home. (b) No one person is independent of any and all other persons. (c) The home circle may be compared to an intricate piece of machinery. (d) Parents are responsible for order and system in their homes, or for the lack of that condition. (e) Children pattern largely after their parents.
 (f) Respect for right and authority begin at home. (g) Washington and Lincoln merit respect and love. (h) Parents should be the confidants and companions of their children, (i) No worldly pleasure can ever compensate a mother for the loss of one soul from her own family, (j) To our pioneer fathers and mothers we owe respect, love and veneration.
Respect and Mutual Interest in the Home.
In every complete and perfectly ordered home, there should be mutual interest existing between all the members and inmates thereof.
Fathers and mothers, sons and daughters, should be bound together, not shutting out the help employed in the family.
Each person is in a large way dependent on every other person.
The home circle is, in comparison, similar to a fine piece of machinery, every little cog, brace or balance-wheel, has its duty to perform and is alike important in its own particular place.
Order and system, respect and reverence in the home, are largely in the hands of parents, or guardians.
Their example permeates every branch and corner of the home nest.
Children copy largely from fathers and mothers in what they do; therefore, how necessary it is that the parents plan and achieve right and proper ends.
If the interest of the heads of the home be cemented with their children's best interests, all who enter such an abode will feel and recognize the sweet and precious influence.
Respect begins in the immediate family; it is gained or lost around the hearthstone.
The standard of each household is measured by the true faith, love, honor and dignity maintained in that elementary community. "When we read the histories of foreign countries and their leaders' lives, and compare them with those of our own America, we cannot fail to appreciate and revere our great "Washington, the founder, and Lincoln, the preserver, of our Union.
Their example, under the most trying difficulties, is worthy of emulation.
The respect, the love, and the united interest, which these two men inspired, even in their colored servants and humblest subjects, are truly admirable and praiseworthy.
Respect is essential to success in every walk in life respect; for the rights of others, and for mutual interest engenders respect for ourselves and our own rights.
In the home it is necessary to show interest in what the children do, in their friends, their pleasures and in their education; we should show interest in their religious, mental,  moral, and social life we should read the literature they read, ; and thus understand what effect their pursuits have upon their characters.
We should discuss with them the subjects that lie near their hearts, be companions and confidants to them.
Mothers will suffer more regret, more sorrow, over one beautiful soul lost through lack of proper care, than they will receive pleasures in all that the world can ever offer. 'Tis not our province to give lengthy topics along "Home Ethics," but, dear sisters, we do wish to impress you with faith and belief in the importance of proper family life and its great responsibility.
As we sit here thinking and writing, our mind goes back over a long life.
We see our childhood again, and the worthy, noble, heroic, good men and women, our parents and pioneers, who have left a heritage, better, stronger and more lasting to us, than all the wealth, grandeur or distinction of this world.
Their sacrifice of all they possessed on the altar of principle; their unsullied life work; their patient surmounting of difficulties all these are precious bequests to us by our valiant fathers and mothers, the "Mormon" pioneers!
Their hope and faith in God, their respect for each other, and their united interest in the Church leaders and in their homes, brought to them success and spiritual victory, and to us, their descendants, these virtues should be as rich heritages.
April