[Vol46 | April 1959 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Parsons]
[The Silver Leash — Chapter 4 Beatrice R. Parsons]

See you tomorrow, Janine. Goodbye." I Her mother was out the door before the astonished young woman could open her mouth to protest. After the sound of her mother's car had died away down the street, Janine looked curiously at the little cedar chest. On the lid was a beautifully carved rose, surrounded by dainty leaf-hke designs, and through the pattern was engraved "To My Beloved Beth." Shyly, almost humbly, Janine unfastened the aging brass fastener and lifted the lid. Inside lay an old, yellowed notebook, and she picked it up carefully. The first page was so faded that she had to read slowly in order to make out the words, but as she did so, the tears left her eyes and she became quite lost in the words before her. Wk ok ok ok oO €éTT is the last of May, 1856, and we are almost ready to begin our long journey. Charles, my husband, has the handcart packed to the brim, and we are going to try to take along our big beautiful mahogany bedstead that was given to us on our wedding day. We hope to start our new home with this dearly beloved bedstead, for somehow a home wouldn't seem to be a home without it. I've wrapped it very carefully in the heaviest quilt I could find to keep it free from dust and scratches. All of our other things, my china, and the lovely maple dining set we have given to our family and frends we are leaving behind. "Charles and the other men have 258 floated the carts across the river on the Council Bluffs ferry. The ferty is a fascinating flat-bottomed boat, built to convey travelers to the other side. They are returning now for the other women, myself, our son Joseph, and our two daughters, Melissa and Mary. "June — The heat is already oppressive, and my calico dress is long since faded from the sun. Dust rises in heavy clouds from the wheels of the carts ahead of us and coats our skin. Melissa's golden curls are gray with it, and when [I shake my bonnet it makes a little dust storm of its own. I grieve for my baby, Mary. How uncomfortable and hot she is. Dear Mary, who longs to kick and coo, and must be held so tightly in my arms all day long. The blanket has to be held so close about her to protect the soft, delicate skin from the blistering sun. 66(*HARLES, dear Charles, strains so hard at the cart to pull it over rocks and through the deep dust, and Joseph and Melissa are so often thirsty, with no water to give them. 'Thank the dear Lord for the joy and love in our hearts, and for the glorious light of his gospel. For how, without this, could my children point out with glee the swift spring of the wild hare, the beauty of the distant golden sunset, and then turn to see their father's back straighten and his eyes become alert? Baby Mary, so sweet to smile at the songs I sing. The songs that give wings to our weary feet. And Charles, so strong his arms, so reassuring his kind smile. "July — It is finally night. As I sit here in our tent I can hear the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 raindrops drumming steadily on the canvas. The rain hasn't let up for almost a week. It is pitch black, except for my little tallow candle which flickers so that it is difficult to write. My family is at last settled for the night. Dear Joseph is flopped out flat, with arms spread above his head and his little hands open and relaxed. Melissa is curled: up like a kitten with her thumb popped into her rosy mouth, and Mary sleeps, peacefully stretching. Charles is so tired. Even in sleep his bronzed face is lined — lines around his eyes from squinting against the sun, tired lines, gentle lines, worried lines. "Two days ago, however, I lifted a burden from his back. The mud was so deep that it was over my knees, and the cart wheels were so caked that we could scarcely pull it. I laid my Mary deep in the cart and together we pulled and pushed and scraped mud from the mms, but it was no use, the cart was too heavily loaded to push any further. It had rained for four days then, and showed no signs of letting up. We had to reach higher ground. And so quietly I told Charles that our bedstead must go, that I wouldn't let him struggle with such a heavy burden any longer for my sake. "Silently we lifted all of our bedding and provisions out of the cart onto a canvas until we came to the big mahogany bedstead. How my heart cried to see Charles heave out our precious little bit of home, remove the quilt, and set it down so painstakingly gentle into the deep black mud. "Rain pelted down our faces and dripped off our clothes as we stood GREAT-GRANDMOTHER'S NOTEBOOK there, looking down at the shiny mahogany begin to glisten with raindrops. Charles looked at me, so deeply, and with such _heartbreaking sympathy that I had to show him that although it hurt terribly, it didn't really matter. "T touched his wet arm with my hand, and I smiled through the rain and said, 'Darling Charles, we were wrong. 'That bedstead wasn't what it takes to make a home. We don't need it really, after all. Home, my darling, is where you and I and our babies are.' "And it is true. We left our beautiful bedstead back along the muddy trail in the rain, but we are all here, tucked safely within our tent with the sound of soothing rain pattering above us and we are really at home —together." HK OK OK JANINE was crying when she finished reading the yellowed notebook, but now her tears were different from the tears that she had shed earlier. She brought the small book up caressingly against her cheek. "Thank you, Great-grandmother. Thank you." She stood up, clutching it against her breast. Dave had heavy burdens, too, although they were not quite the same as a handcart. And what had she done to help to lighten them? What comfort had she given him? None! She had been 259 too engrossed in her own disappointment to reach out and help him with his. No, she thought, she would probably never be called upon to leave a beloved bedstead along a muddy trail, but, perhaps, she might need to abandon a few too high-priced ideas for her husband's broad shoulders to carry. In fact, this very evening when Dave treturned she would try to show him, with the help of a wise great-grandmother, that they were also really at home by being together and that was all that mattered. Slowly, gently, she replaced the notebook in the little chest. She would read it often, as her mother had promised her that she would. Placing the chest upon the mantel, she tiptoed to the screen door and opened it quietly. Jenny was still sitting there, holding the jar, but her eyes were uninterested now, and her tiny feet drummed nervously on the step. Somewhere along the way, Janine realized, she had forgotten to see the beautiful things her children pointed out to her, and she had also forgotten to bring joy to them. She sat down upon the step beside the little girl and put her arm about her. The child's face lighted in bewilderment, and then a smile spread across her face and lighted up her deep blue eyes again as Janine said gently, "Darling, Pm ready now to see your butterfly." <> But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice: let them ever shout for joy because thou defendest them: let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee. For thou, Lord, wilt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou compass him as with a shield (Psalms 5:11-12). ORs Rozella Dowdle Kingsford Makes Lace Sablecloths and Braided Rugs Roza Dowdle Kingsford, Cove, Utah, has been busy with needles and crochet hooks since girlhood. She has made more than fifty braided rugs and many articles of exquisite crocheting. For the Relief Society room in her ward chapel she crocheted a lovely lace tablecloth and a lace cloth for the top of the piano. She also crocheted hundreds of articles which were sold and the money given to help fnance the building of the ward chapel. Mrs. Kingsford's ''double hobby," as she calls it, is gardening. She raises raspberries and strawberries, as well as a vegetable garden, and her flower garden is the pride of the valley — presenting a picture of continuous bloom from early spring until late fall. Her habits of industry and thrift were acquired early, for Rozella Dowdle lost her mother when she, the eldest daughter, was only twelve. Soon after the mother's death, Rozella's father said to her, "Be sure to have the bushel of wheat ready for the Relief Society sisters when they call, even though your mother is not here.' Relief Society has been a beloved companion to Mrs. Kingsford for many of her seventy-eight years, and she has been a visiting teacher for more than forty years. She is mother to eight children and grandmother to twenty-seven.