[Vol46 | April 1959 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Fiction | Title: Home MacKabe]
-—<I_- Home Necorators Joyce K. MacKabe I don't have murals or oil paintings hanging on my walls. The decorators of my home are not trained, nor do they get paid for their work. The bright paper truck cut laboriously in kindergarten from colored paper adorns our living room wall. The mural on the refrigerator was made by little hands, brown with cake batter licked from the mixing bowl. A trail of toys leads through the house left by a toddler's tiny hands, a true free-form design from the modern school of art. Crumbs encircle each of the twenty legs of our breakfast set, but their delicate tracery means more to me than the careful pattern of the linoleum, for they recall the smiles on the clean faces that were around the table such a short time before. These are the decorators of my home, hardly professional, yet I am convinced they are the best God has to offer, and I thank him for my children. About Swilight Amy Viau WHEN I first met twilight, long ago as a child, it was a very special time of evening. During the long summer days, people seemed to look forward to it as a kind of luxurious siesta. Twilight on the farm of a Midwestern State, where great fields and distances stretched, unchecked by mountains to horizon them, was a splendored prefix to night; There, in its softened glowing of gray, the whole world was a charmed landscape. In that land of level fields and reaching pastures, twilight stretched far beyond the toad running past our front yard. And often there was mentioning of the twilight, as of the sunset. "Isn't it a lovely twilight?" was almost as natural an exchange between neighbors as was "How are you?" And in that day, before cars stirred the highways with speed, the thick, velvety dust of the summer road yielded softly to every footstep of those who walked along in the twilight, just for the joy of the evening. There was the summer evening when a stranger came sauntering along past the yard, as though he walked a royal pathway. And, though strangers did not often walk that road, it seemed natural and fitting for him. "Good evening, Sir," he called out to my father, sitting with the whole family in the cool front yard. "A lovely twilight — a lovely twilight, if I ever saw one!" Of course, father agreed, and the stranger leaned on the top rail of the rail fence, with regular twilight friendliness. He explained that he was hiking to upstate and loved walking at twilight and under the stars of night. When he was reminded by father that it was eight miles to the nearest town, where he could get lodging—he laughed, then explained what a pleasure it was when he was walk-tired, to take his coat from the valise he carried and to lhe down beside the road, or in some dewy field to rest—with God's vastness all around him. And to my child mind, that was a heavenly thing to do. The two large sycamore trees across the road, responded to twilight with a stillness of utter peace, until the night blackened them into indefinable shapes. But they were a bit of trim to the twilight, worth mentioning. The old, gray stable—not the real barn, just the squat stable, was a kind of dwarfish castle in twilight, as the light went from subdued gray to a depth of blue from which it slowly melted into night. It was at the time of this bluish gray, that Father always seemed impelled to sing. "The Ninety and Nine" was his favorite song. He would start it with a twilight-kind of humming, which finally became words that rose clear and distinct in the crescendo of the verse. When the "'wandering sheep" were finally safe in the Father's arms, and Father's beautiful voice ebbed into the silent twilight—I felt happy and satisfed. "Shall we take a little walk in the twilight?" was almost as usual in the family as was the mentioning of supper being ready, or of lighting the indoor lights. However, lights spoiled the effect of twilight. Even the flashings of fireflies over the fields and yard, which are comparable to flashes of fairy lanterns, to a child, can mar the effect of twilight-glowing. 'Twilight needs only its own varied tones to make a world of fairyland. Page 264 The Silver Leash CHAPTER 4 Beatrice fRordame Parsons Synopsis: LaRue Harding, an orphan, who has lived since childhood in California with an aunt, goes to Fivelakes, Arizona, after the death of her sister Amelia. She tries to help and encourage her brother-in-law Herbert Vetterly, who is confined to a wheel chair. His children gradually come to accept LaRue as a friend and as a member of the family. She meets Dr. Alan Rutherford, a surgeon at the Jonas Harding Hospital, and_ his fiancee Gladys Drew. WEEK or so later, LaRue had the opportunity to speak to Herb about her plans for extending her vacation. "Id like to wire the bank and ask for a little more time, Herb. That is, if you and the children can put up with me a little longer." She felt herself flushing and took refuge in the Founding Festival, adding: "I'd like to stay for the celebration. Everyone's talking about it." "Of course, stay," said Herb, but he could not hide the questioning frown which crossed his forehead. LaRue decided that she must be completely honest. "TI didn't mean to stay, Herb. [I realize that Erma and Joel resent me. Connie has been offended ever since the day I corrected her." "The children are young," said Herb, coming quickly to their defense. "I shall speak to them." "Please don't," said LaRue, stiffly. "Oh, I know that it seems to them that I came only for a vacation, that I] didn't want to come. But I had to come, Herb." Her voice failed. Silence stretched within the pretty room with its starched white curtains, its homelike furniture. There was a crystal bowl on a table. Amelia had loved it because it had been given to her by a good friend. Amelia had had so many friends. E: veryone had liked her. Everybody LaRue met said kind, loving things about Amelia. And because they did, LaRue felt lonely. Herb was speaking haltingly: "I have no right to ask you to stay, LaRue. Yet I need you. We all need you." It was good to be needed. Yet LaRue knew the limitations of that need. After Herb had gone to his room and closed his door, she thought about it. When she sat down to send a telegram to the bank, she felt doubtful. Once her hand paused, and she crumbled the paper, cleciding not to stay. Then she heard Connie going along the hall. She paused at her father's door, called out to him: "Daddy, I'm going out to play with Janice and Atlast. If you need anything, just call me." Carol waited hopefully for an answer. When it did not come, she went slowly along the hall and outside. LaRue felt anger rising hot in her throat. He might have answered, she thought, knowing the depth of a small child's disappointment. She scribbled words on paper, and went to the phone and sent the message. 'Then she went into the kitchen. 'There were a few soiled dishes in the sink. She atPaae 265 266 tacked them fiercely, then smiled at her own display of spleen. She scolded herself. Be fair to Herb. The accident which broke his body, broke his spirit, too. She knew that Amelia's death had shattered the faith he had lived by all during his life. Amelia had been his other self. Without her love he was lost. Truth and knowledge had drifted away. ARUE rinsed a shining glass and set it in the cupboard. She stared at it for a few moments seeing it filled with sparkling punch. I don't know much about entertaining voung folks, she thought dubiously, but maybe I could try. If Erma and Joel had a closer home life, they would not always be away from their home. If there was only something.... Maybe a party. I could ask Erma. But she still felt a little frightened of Erma's scorn. Anyway, she thought, relieved, I could ask Bob Powers to suggest something that would keep Joel more at home. Even as she planned, she felt unsure about how to go about things. She decided to go for a walk. Maybe it would help her think. She changed her house-frock for a pink, sleeveless cotton. She shaded her gtay-blue eyes with a large hat. She had no particular destination in view. But when she came to the knoll rising up to Hillhigh House, she turned automatically and began the climb. 'The walk was steep and weed-grown. The lawn sloped towards the new highway. She stood in an old brick patio gazing out upon a surprising panorama. Below, the highway, under the onslaught of the road-building machines, stretched into the disRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 tance like an unwinding spool of dark thread. Vehicles moved along it like toys propelled by a childish hand, to disappear between molded pink cliffs. Far to the left, Blue Lake danced and sparkled, holding captive in its sapphire depths a great golden ball of sun. She pulled off her hat and let. The breeze ruffle her burnished curls, there in the shadow of an old willow tree. She was unaware, until she heard a voice, that anyone was near. Then she remembered that Connie had said that Grandie visited the old house daily. The voice was ancient, mellow. It said: "Matilda Harding!" LaRue whirled, wondering how anyone had ever learned her middle name. She had never cared for it, although it had been her grandmother's name. The old man was sitting on the steps of the high porch. His white hair was silver in the breeze. He smiled, and she saw that his eyes were dark, and very, very shrewd with the lessons of eighty-two years. She smiled, correcting him: "I am LaRue Harding, Sir." "You're Amelia's sister." He spoke complacently. "My grandson, Dr. Alan, said you were here. You're very like your grandmother. We were children together, Matilda and I. She had that same red hair!"' LaRue hadn't known. Amelia had known about her family, not LaRue. So her grandmother had had red hair! The knowledge warmed her, somehow. Grandie was staring at her critically. "Like the old house, LaRue?" It was a friendly question, and when she nodded, he grinned happily. "I like it, too. Have since I was a kid. It was built by the THE SILVER LEASH Hardings, but my wife and I lived here, after [ bought it, until my darling left me for a better place." His eyes were sad, but he kept his smile. "Amelia loved this old house. She wanted to buy it. Fix it up. The attic's filled with old furniture." He broke off, shaking his head. "Young folks aren't interested in old things," he said tiredly. LaRue found, suddenly, that she was more interested than she had thought. She said quickly: "Someday I'd like to bring Erma here and look the house over. Connie would love to come. Maybe, Joel." HE old man waved his hand towards a garage that had once been a carriage house. "There's a car in there. Built long before Joel was born. Hear he's interested in cars." LaRue's face was shining. "He'd love to see it, Grandie." She said the name as if she had been saying it all her life, the way the others did. She cried excitedly, looking about: "This would be a lovely spot for a cook-out. We could bring a portable grill and chairs, and." "The old house would like that," cried Grandie, his old eyes bright with happiness. Quite solemnly he stated: "The house gets lonely, you know." There was something pathetic in the thought. LaRue had known loneliness. She asked: "Do houses really get lonely, Grandie?" "Why not?" The question was eager. "People get lonely. Why not houses? This house is used to people. Crowds of people. It could be quite an attractive place if." He glanced at the crooked FOR SALE sign nailed to one of the 267 pillars of the porch, and confessed: "Guess I haven't tried very hard to sell it. Guess I'm sentimental! Wouldn't want to see the old house fall into the hands of someone who'd tear it down. Or abuse it." He talked about the house as though it were human. LaRue knew how he loved it. He saw her looking at him and said: "Gladys. Wants a fine, ranch-type house in Maple Park when she marries my grandson. She wants me to build him a fine office, too." LaRue nodded. "She told me about it once when she came with Dr. Alan to call on Herb." She wrinkled her brows doubtfully. "But Dr. Alan told us of his plans for adding a children's wing to the hospital. He tried to encourage Herb to draw the plans. But Herb didn't seem interested." She remembered. How Dr. Alan had sketched what he wanted on the back of a rumpled envelope. "His face fairly shone when he talked about it," she finished. Grandie's old face was still. "Alan's dreamed of that wing ever since he started medical college. The hospital needs it. 'The children's ward is too crowded. Sort of out-of-date." He added, abruptly: "Gladys says he'd be wasting his life, staying on at the hospital when he could have a fine, brand new office, and a wealthy clientele." "Wasting his life!" LaRue echoed the phrase indignantly. Grandie looked her straight in the eye. "I've already told Gladys I would give Alan the money for the home and office. She was very happy." LaRue stared at the old man.

Just a second before he had been so (Continued on page 275) Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through. Stake and mission Relief Society presidents.