[Vol46 | April 1959 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The]
[The Right Circles]

<-> A, pr il EGvenin g Ida Elaine James Why do I linger, still, in dark and mist Through which I cannot see, and still I strain— Is there a lilac left I have not kissed And drunk its breath with April's subtle pain? How can I leave the dogwood here, unsung, In darkness through the poignant April night, Unwind my arms from blossoms where they've clung Bursting to give their hearts out, snowy-white. The dogwood's little sisters, bridal-wreath, Droop graciously to second place, in awe, Mute to my listening heart that beats beneath Their frail encircling arcs without a flaw. With such pure beauty offered me, profuse, Oh, April, let me stand without excuse. She Gast Central States Tlission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE East Central States Mission was organized in November 1928, under the direction of Elder Stephen L Richards of the Council of the Twelve. The states of 'Tennessee, Kentucky, North Carolina, and Virginia were taken from the Southern States Mission, and West Virginia and part of Marxyland from the Eastern States Mission, to form the new mussion. Miles L. Jones of Ogden, Utah, was chosen as the first president. Headquarters of the mission was established in Louisville, Kentucky, where a commodious mission home was purchased. The total Latter-day Saint membership of the new mission at the time of its organization, was 12,289, which included 2,060 children. President Jones served as president of the East Central States Mission until June 1934, when he was succeeded by James M. Kirkham. President Kirkham was succeeded in June 1937 by William I'. 'Tew; President 'Tew served until July 1940 when he was succeeded by James P. Jensen; President Jensen was succeeded in October 1943 by Graham Doxey; President Doxey served until November 1946, when he was succeeded by 'Thomas W. Richards; President Richards presided until May 1950, when he was succeeded by John B. Matheson; President Matheson was succeeded in Courtesy Department of Public Relations Frankfort, Kentucky Submitted by Marie C.