[Vol46 | April 1959 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: Great-Grandmothers]
[Great-Grandmother's Notebook Arlene D. Cloward]

Plan garments which allow the greatest freedom for getting around on hands and knees and taking the first steps. Both girls and boys fare better in a cover-all type of garment that is buttoned at the crotch for easy changing. At this stage they are difficult to keep clean and frequent changes are necessary, so simplicity is the keynote for comfort. Make such garments in pretty colors which can be washed often. Soft, flexible fabrics, with smooth surfaces which do not pick up dirt, should be used. They should always be pre-shrunk and color-fast. All seams should be narrow, flat, and smooth. All stitching should be very secure as these clothes will receive hard wear. Buttons and buttonholes must stay fast and keep their shape. 'They will be subjected to a great deal of buttoning and unbuttoning.

great work to do. It was Ezekiel who said something about if the parents "... Have eaten sour grapes... The children's teeth are set on edge' (Ezekiel 18:2). That is what happens if you miss the mother and the mother misses the children. 'Their teeth are on edge because the mother is cating sour grapes, but if you can give her sweet grapes, if you can give her good food, if you can nourish her, if you can lift her, then, of course, her children have a chance. There is the old story you have heard so many times of the questions asked the builders, and the first one when asked, "What are you doing here?" answered and said, "I am working eight hours a day. Iam putting in time. I am earning my living this way." 'The second one said, "I am putting brick on brick, and I am building a structure here." The third, when he was asked, raised himself up to full stature and said, "Tam building a great cathedral." So it seems to me that visiting teachers who just have to go and do their teaching, who have to get in their reports, who have to answer to a call, who have to do anything, they are just time watchers, clock watchers. I guess there could be some of those clock watchers. Then there are those who have a little better vision, "Why, it is all right, and it is part of the work of the Lord and, therefore, I gucss I should set aside my own interests and go." But I am sure, most of the sisters in this stake are building great cathedrals. ",.. He which soweth sparingly," 216 said Paul, "shall reap also sparingly; and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully (II Cor.:6). We do not get far by just saying words. We must put our hearts into the words, and we must plan, and prepare our minds. I wonder if there are any sisters who fast the morning they are going to do their monthly visiting teaching. I do not know that it is required. 'There are many things in the Church that are not required: For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward (D & C 58:26). ONE who goes just to visit homes, to knock on the doors, to pass the time of day, and then goes back and makes the report, is somewhat like the one whom Paul spoke of who was fighting, as "one that beateth the air" (I Cor. 9:26), not making any progress. She is like one whose wheels are spinning on the ice. We need to get out and put some gravel on the ice. We need to get some tires that have treads upon them, and then go forth and do our job as we should do it. I suspect that in almost every district there are difficult situations, women who will not let you in. There may be women who do not want you to come in, but permit it. There are women who wish you would leave before you do. You remember the Savior had troubles like that, too. And it came to pass, when the time was come that he should be received up, he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 And sent messengers before his face: and they went, and entered into a village of the Samaritans, to make ready for him. And they did not receive him, because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem. And when his disciples James and John saw this, they said, Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven, and consume them, even as Elias did? But he turned, and rebuked them, and said, Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of. For the Son of man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. And they went to another village (Luke 9:51-56). At another time a man came to the Savior and said: Lord, have mercy on my son: for he is lunatick, and sore vexed: for ofttimes he falleth into the fire, and oft into the water. And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him. Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long Shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring him hither to me. And Jesus rebuked the devil; and he departed out of him: and the child was cured from that very hour. Then came the disciples to Jesus apart and said, Why could not we cast him out? And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief: for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place and it shall remove and nothing shall be impossible unto you. Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting (Mt. 17:15-21). When you have a woman who MESSENGERS OF FAITH AND CHARITY will not open her door, and you know she is in the house, one who opens her door and does not want to, one who admits you and wishes you had not come, next month would it not be well to follow the advice of the Lord, "Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting" (Mt. 17:21)? You know the Lord has intangible methods and ways and means and forces that can touch hearts. Remember Alma? Alma was persecuting the Church one day, and the next day he was a great advocate of it. Remember Paul? One day he was arresting the saints and imprisoning them, and in a few days he was preaching the gospel in every synagogue with great power. What was the difference? It was some intangible force that had been brought to bear on them by the Lord. He touched their hearts. He did something else, too. We know what it was, of course. Now you say, "Well, that woman can never be touched." Of course, she can be touched. She can be brought in. John Taylor said there is none who cannot be converted if the right person makes the nght approach at the right time in the nght way with the right spirit. He didn't put all those rights in; I have added them; but do not think that it is impossible. G2 back to the first book in The Book of Mormon and read it again. You remember when Nephi said:... I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may 217 accomplish the thing which he commandeth them (I Nephi 3:7). The 17th Chapter, 3d verse, is practically a repetition of it: And thus we see that the commandments of God must be fulfilled. And if it so be that the children of men keep the commandments of God he doth nourish them, and strengthen them, and _provide means whereby they can accomplish the thing which he has commanded them; wherefore, he did provide means for us while we did sojourn in the wilderness (I Nephi 17:3). It can be done! We must eliminate entirely from our vocabulary the word "can't." The Lord called you. Do you accept that, or do you think that your ward president called you? Now if only your ward president called you, then it may be that it can't be done, but if God called you through these proper channels, in the way you know you are called, then it follows surely that you cannot fail, if you do your full part. It is easy to fail. It is easv to get discouraged. It is easy to quit. You remember how Nephi was confronted with an impossible situation and could not get the plates. His brothers could not. 'They were unable to buy them. 'They could not bribe them out of the hands of Laban. They could not force their way in, and their lives were hanging on a thread. In spite of all that, here comes one unarmed boy who walks into a city through a wall that could not be penetrated, into gates that could not be opened, into a garden that was impenetrable, into a vault that was locked, among soldiers who could not be by-passed, and he came out with his arms full of records to keep his posterity and others from 218 perishing in unbelief. He did what was humanly impossible. But nothing is impossible to the Lord. Anytime we have him on our side, when he has called us and given us a commandment, then, if our energy and our efforts and our planning and our prayers are equal to the size of the calling, the work, of course, will be successfully completed. A monk is said to have built a tower sixty feet high and three feet wide. On a certain day he would climb up to the top of the tower and pray, and the words of his prayers were generally about like this: "O God, where art thou?" No answer. 'Come, O God, where art thou?" No answer was heard. Finally, there came a voice which said: "I am down among the people." We must be humble. Our wealth, our affluence, our liberties, all that we possess must never let us feel above anyone. We must always keep in mind a deep sincerity, a great humility, and a total dependence upon the Lord. Most failures are made by those who have found that good enough satisfies them. 'There is the story of Antonio Stradivarius with which you are all familiar, 1 am sure. He died at ninety-three. When he was about seventy years old, he created the greatest violin that has ever been built. He had had some training before, but the vision came to him long, long after he had left all his teachers. He made many changes. He gave the violin a greater curvature in the middle ribs, the four comer blocks were made more massive. He lowered the height of the arch of the belly of it. He made the scroll more massive and prominent. He reached his perfection when he was about seventy. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 HEN Sister Kimball and I had our little girl studying violin we thought she might be a great violinist someday. We bought her a little violin. I think you would call it a "fiddle," because it cost us only fifteen dollars. As far as I could tell, it looked just like any other violin — like a Stradivarius, perhaps. It was a fifteen-dollar instrument, for her to start her work on. If she had become a great violinist, we would have purchased a better one for her. I inquired the other day down at one of our music stores, and they said that Stradivarius violins sometimes go up as high as two hundred thousand dollars. I once knew a rather odd family and the father claimed to have a Stradivarius. They wouldn't all go to Church at any one time. Always, somebody had to stay home and watch the violin, it was considered so precious. Well, I tell you that each one of you can be a fiddle, or you can be a Stradivarius, when you go into the homes of the saints to teach them the gospel. You remember that love is the greatest law. When the Lord was asked which were the two greatest laws, he said: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself (Mt. 22:37, 39). He told us who our neighbors are. 'They are the people next door, the ones that are away; those who are on their journeys; those injured, the ill, the mean, the sinful. Everybody is our neighbor, and these MESSENGERS OF FAITH AND CHARITY people in these homes are our neighbors. If you go to fill assignments, that is one thing, but if you go to bring your neighbor to a full knowledge of the gospel, then that is another story. Persistence is often rewarded, especially if it is attended with love and kindness. It is difficult to serve where there is little appreciation; but often obstinacy gives way and receptiveness takes the place of rejection. Even nature exemplifies this principle: A little moisture gets into the rocks and freezes and cracks the rock wide open; a strong wind carves out the cliffs; a seed falls in a crack in the stone and, waging a slow, silent, but never-relaxing pressure, finally splits the stone; a tiny tree root under heavy pavement finally cracks and lifts the enormous weight. You can succeed. Like the little vine, the little root that can topple a wall or split a rock, you can touch hearts and break people away from their improper moorings and bring them into spiritual activity. It can be done! 219 Now, in conclusion, let me quote you one of my favorite little verses. I have quoted it many times. Maybe you have heard me quote it. It is by Henry Van Dyke: Let me do my work from day to day In the field or forest, at the desk or loom, In roaring market place or tranquil room; Let me but find it in my heart to say, When vagrant wishes beckon me astray, This is my work; my blessing, not my doom; Of all who live I am the one by whom This work can best be done in the right way. Then shall I see it not too great, nor small, To suit my spirit and to prove my powers; Then shall I cheerful, greet the labouring hours, And cheerful turn, when the long shadows fall At eventide, to play and love and rest, Because I know for me my work is best. (From "The Three Best —1, Work, by Henry Van Dyke) Things" God bless you sisters in your glorious work, in your sweet personalities, in the extended influence you can pass to others, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.