[Vol46 | April 1959 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: About | Author: Viau]
[About Twilight Amy Viau]

251 In after years I asked the entangled one how she felt at the moment of desertion, and she said, "So hopeless! What if I never got loosened in time to be baptized. Then the Lord would never forgive me for stealing Grandma's candy from the jar in her parlor." She did unleash herself, however, and came running, a bit tear-stained, to catch up, and pridefully clutching the torn hem to hide it. Then what happened made someone quote "the last shall be first," thought from a Sunday School lesson. 'The girl's name was Adams, and she headed the line! Here we were, tremblingly standing, a bit breathless, ready for the great moment; but where were the boys? Sounds of a minor battle over in the tool shed gave notice of where they were, all right. But why weren't they ready? One of the fathers hastened to the ruction — it was hard to determine from his face and stride whether by now he wanted to quell the trouble or join in and beat up the noisy offenders. The upsurge of sound as he opened the door was cut off with his stern presence and, in short order, a half dozen boys came filing out, each looking temporarily guilty, or perhaps it was embarrassment at, for once, being dressed all in white. They, at least, wore better fitting outfits than the girls, and only the color seemed odd. Of course, we all knew what we were about, this baptism by immersion, but a stranger to our ways would have been somewhat puzzled. His enlightenment would have been less likely upon hearing. Two bold remarks. The biggest boy, by a head, evidently long over the eight-year limit, stated louder than. 252 boys ever realize they are talking, "I decided I'd get baptized today, even if I had to do it myself in the bathtub!" His friend, standing near, boasted, "If they just don't hold me under more than two minutes, I can hold my breath!" One could see straight off that someone along the line had neglected to inform the lads that eight years was the time to know right from wrong. Immersion, complete for an instant only, was the commanded form to symbolize a new birth into a life of consecration toward better ways. Also, the brief ceremony, packed with deep spiritual significance, was to be loved, not feared. As young as I was, I could see twelve children with as many hopes and fears showing all over their faces. 'That is, except for one, a little Indian boy, totally calm, absolutely noncommittal, always on the outside of the group, alone in a white man's ceremony. I guessed his parents were the Pahutes, motionless as totems, a ways off under a cottonwood tree. I was grown before I realized how sensitive this race is to the eyes of outsiders, white or red. My turn to enter the waters came before I could quite understand why the biggest boy came on the bank blubbering, or why the littlest girl seemed almost transported to angelic bliss at her moment of purity. Nor could I understand why the pudgy blond girl should have been shaking as with laughter; or for that matter, why in middle age, she is still chuckling over life. All of us resembled soaked weeds— hair streaming, straightened, tangled, eyelashes dewy and gathered in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 beauty's up-length — soggy clothing clinging in shapeless drapes and utterly refusing to stand out from our formless selves. Each looked at each with the purest inward touch we would probably ever have again. We knew our sins had been forgiven us, and we solemnly believed we never could offend a soul, if we lived to be a' hundred. Most of us felt considerably older than we had an hour earlier. Age eight is truly a marvel in mankind's progress. We were all well launched on the path to heaven, and we knew at the end of the journey all of us would be there together. Such was our faith, repentance, and baptism. UICKLY we ran to the leanto. Now that it was all over, except of course our confirmation on next Fast Sunday, we were in haste to join our parents and relatives who already were roaming _restlessly about the grounds. Some of the older ones named the year they, too, had come here to be baptized. A couple of very little boys spoke up. They didn't think the pond was anything but a swimming hole. The elder in charge hoped that one day a font would be built within a new meetinghouse. His dream showed in his eyes. As we entered the house, we looked back just in time to see three boys racing for a surrey at the gate.

And, still sopping wet, each with his dry clothes under his arm and his shoes tied together and slung around his neck, off they drove for town. One boy yelled back, "Why stop to dress when it is raining anyway?" This seemed reasonable, except THE DAY I TURNED EIGHT that to little girls, in a chattering state of wetness and excitement, the delay for getting dressed was more urgent. And besides, we thought, what mother would let girls drive about soaking wet! 'That was just for boys, we guessed. By the time we drew on our long stockings over our damp skin and crumpled underwear and laced our high-topped shoes, all the boys and their families had left, and most of the remaining parents were calling us to hurry. In a way, I hated to leave. I felt a little sad, just the way my spirits fell when we said goodbye to Grandma after a visit or when Christmas day was finally over, and it wouldn't happen again for a whole, interminable year. As we climbed in the buggy and the harness slapped the mare to signal motion toward home, we looked back at the pond. The April rain was strengthening its fall, a gust of canyon wind ruffled its surface. With a little shiver I looked for comfort to Mother and Grand- 253 ma sitting in the front seat. They were happy to be on the way home again. 'Their concern, then, was about my birthday cake which they hoped someone had thought to take out of the oven. It was then I knew I was still a little girl, and not so terribly grownup after all; for I got so hungry for that cake that I nearly jumped out of the buggy and ran ahead of the horse. When the whole day was over: rain, baptism, cake, and all, I tried to think of the most wonderful thing to remember when I got real old, say twenty-five. I settled for the moment in the pond, the deep water gently swaying me and the loving arms of my father steadying me as he began to talk to the Lord in my behalf. It all came back, each detail — as it has most of my numerous birthdays — the next morning when Mother combed my hair. My braids were still damp from the rain and the water in the pond — that day I turned eight. _<- My Love Ys Young Maixene Jennings My love is young, and, oh, so filled with needing! For comfort, warmth, and strength he turns to me; His tiny voice that asks of me his feeding Names me his orbit's queen, his certainty. My love is small, but, oh, so full of growing! His dimpled charm thrives on the racing days; His shrinking clothes contrive to keep me sewing, While healthy pounds revise his baby ways. My love is mine, but, oh, so busy sleeping! His waking hours most precious hours I've known! My cup is full, but I am close to weeping— The more he grows the less he is my own! You Can Sew—XIV —Childrens Clothes —Ynfants and Soddlers Jean R. Jennings T is a wise woman, indeed, who I approaches the making of a layette with a practical and not a sentimental plan. Too often young mothers let their feelings run away with them and buy entirely too many and too frivolous clothes for the coming baby. The kinds and number of garments are matters of personal decision, but wise mothers plan for very few infants' clothes. Babies grow fast and are soon too large for the first tiny clothes. Often friends send gifts, and soon there is much more for the baby than can ever be needed. When selecting clothing for the infant, keep these three important points in mind: the garments must be comfortable; they must be easy to launder; they must be easy to slip on and off. To insure perfect comfort in infants' and small tots' clothing, first make sure the fabrics are soft. Fine nainsook, lawn, batiste, soft flannel, and soft crepe are satisfactory. Many of the new synthetic fabrics are non-absorbent and do not readily ventilate, so are, therefore, not as good for the wee ones. Do not use any materials that will, in any way, irritate sensitive skin. Rough textures and stiff or starchy types are a very poor choice for children. In most cases, especially for night clothes, those that tie are better than those that button. Give preference to a front closing and to taglan sleeves which will give freePage 254 dom and more comfort than set-in sleeves. Avoid tiny collars that crumple up around the neck, no matter how cute they are. Resist garments that slip over the head. They are hard to adjust and hard to iron. Young mothers with growing families can be kind to themselves by keeping children's clothes simple and uncluttered so they are easy to launder. 'The fewer the frills for everyday clothes the better. When baby begins to crawl and learn to walk, his clothes need special consideration.