[Vol46 | April 1959 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION 221 Luoma Photos LANDSCAPE NEAR ELKINS, WEST VIRGINIA Headquarters for the Monongahela National Forest in the Allegheny Mountains October 1953 by Cornelius Zappey; President Zappey presided until February 1955, when he was released on account of illness. He was succeeded by Melvin Ross Richards, who presides at the present time. In 1947 the states of North Carolina, Virginia, and parts of West Virginia, were taken from the East Central States Mission and given to the Central Atlantic States mission. Elder Sterling W. Sill, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, made a tour of the East Central States Mission, in company with President M. Ross Richards, during May 1958. Chapels were dedicated in the McMinnville, Bristol, Knoxville, and Hopkinsville branches. At the conclusion of his tour, Elder Sill said: "I am delighted with the quality of the people who are being brought into the Church and the spirit that seems to be among them." On December 31, 1958, there were 13,607 members of the Church in the East Central States Mission, located in forty-nine branches. During the year 1958, five hundred converts were baptized in the mission. Fifty-three Relief Society organizations, with 1003 members, were reported in December 1958. Marie C. Richards presides over the East Central States Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "The Hermitage," home of President Andrew Jackson, near Nashville, Tennessee, is reproduced from a color transparency by Arthur Gniffin, Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. See also "Recipes From the East Central States Mission," by Sister Richards, page 246. Unto the Hills Helen Hooper 66 AMA, Mama!" We came M running into the kitchen wide-eyed and_ shocked, with petticoats and pigtails flying behind us. "Mama, Mrs. Haynes and Mrs. O'Hara just stoled our big white rooster!" "What do you mean _ stoled?" asked Mama calmly, as she lifted the heavy sadiron from the shirt on the ironing board and set it back on the hot stove, then lifted the other one from the stove, tested it with a moistened forefinger, and went on ironing the shirt. "We saw them, Mama. Mrs. O'Hara shooed him over the fence, and Mrs. Haynes caught him in her apron, and they both ran into Mrs. Haynes' house. I bet they're gonna eat him, too!" Both of us were quivering with righteous indignation as we presented the facts of the case. Mama carefully finished the shirt and placed the iron back on the stove. "My goodness," she said thoughtfully. ""That's too bad. Mr. O'Hara must be drinking again, and that roosters as tough as sole leather. You go back out in the yard and pick out the fattest hen you can find. Catch it quick, and go knock on Mrs. Haynes' door and tell them I want them to have that one, too. One rooster isn't nearly enough to feed two families." Blanche and I looked at each other a moment, then, giggling with delight, we ran to obey. I can still remember the faces of the two women when we handed them that chicken. Page 222 "Mama wants you to have this one, too,' Blanche explained with strained solemnity. "We never took your chicken said Mrs. Haynes, her face getting all red and splotchy. "Never mind, Belle, there's no ° use gettin' all heated up," said Mrs. O'Hara. "Miz Whitehead just plain knows we need it, and that's why she sent this one, too." She turned to us. "Go on home and tell your ma thanks." She took the chicken, and, as she shut the door, we heard her continue, "She's a night good and understanding woman in spite of her being a Mormon." This observation in no way surprised us. We had grown accustomed to the fact that we were different — a Mormon widow and her children living in a non-Mormon town. Unlike most of the towns in Utah, Eureka had been settled by prospectors and miners who were interested only in the rich ore from its mountains.