[Vol46 | April 1959 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Recipes | Author: Richards]
Recipes From the Gast Central States ITlission Submitted by Marie Curtis Richards ALABAMA PECAN PIE (Popular in Tennessee and Mississippi) Martha Joe Garrett, Memphis, Tennessee *% ¢c. Sugar 2 tbsp. Melted butter 4 tbsp. Corn meal 1 c. Dark syrup 2 eggs 1 C. Pecans Line nine-inch pie pan with pastry and set aside. Measure and stir sugar and corn' meal together in mixing bowl. Mix in eggs, butter, and corn syrup. Stir in pecans, and pour into unbaked pie shell. Bake at 375° for thirty-five to forty minutes. If glass pan is used, reduce baking time five minutes. LEATHER BRITCHES (Dried String Beans—Cooked) Lucy Harmon, Charleston, West Virginia Choose good, full green beans. String (but do not break) on a heavy thread with a darning needle. Hang up to dry inside away from insects. Let dry until completely dry. (This takes several days in humid climate and not so long in hot, dry climate.) Then place in a container with lid and store in dry place. To cook Leather Britches, either soak overnight or pour boiling water over them, cover, and let stand a few minutes. Pour off water and put in pan with a little water, salt to taste, season with ham hock or bacon. Cook over low flame for five or six hours. Add a little water as needed. Let the water all cook away before serving. These are delicious in the wintertime with corn bread. SourrREL Wirn PorKx Cuors (A Delicacy in the South) Lucy Harmon, Charleston, West Virginia Put a couple of pork chops in bottom of pan. Dress and cut squirrel and place on top of pork chops. Cover with water. Salt and pepper to taste. Cook slowly until tender and the water is cooked away, and pork chops fry. Let brown well. Pour a little water (2 or 3 spoonfuls) and cover for a few seconds. This makes its own brown gravy. Friep PIEs Cook dried fruit in very little water until tender. Add sugar to taste. Cool. Dough: 1 © flour 4 tsp. Salt " ¢. Shortening 2 tbsp. Cold water Mix flour, salt, and shortening until pieces are about the size of small peas. Add cold water and mix. Handle as little as possible. Wrap in wax paper and chill. When ready to use pinch off pieces to make about a three-inch circle when rolled. Roll on floured board. Put a tablespoon of fruit on one side and pull dough over and pinch edges together with a fork. Fry in deep, hot fat. Brown on one side and then the other. When done, drain on paper towels to remove cxcess fat. Page 246 RECIPES FROM THE EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION 247 Lazy Pir Melt one-fourth pound butter or other shortening in casserole dish. (A deep dish to prevent spilling should be used.) Mix together the following ingredients: 1 c. Flour 1 tbsp. Baking powder 1 Cc. Sugar 44 ¢. Milk Pour the above into melted butter. (Distribute evenly, but do not stir!) Add: 2% c. Cooked fruit with syrup (sweetened to taste). Do not mix fruit and syrup when adding to casserole, just pour it in as evenly as possible. You will be surprised at how the fruit takes its place and the crust comes to the top by itself. Cook at 350° F. For forty-five minutes or until browned nicely. Makes six large servings or eight small ones. Serve plain or with ice cream or whipped cream. (Note: With some canned fruit, if syrup is thicker, you may need to add one-half cup of water.) SWEET Potato CASSEROLE Mrs. Thompson Crawford, Fairmont, West Virginia (Original Recipe ) 1 medium-sized can swect potatoes 4 tbsp. Orange juice "2 ¢c. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Salt 4 tbsp. Butter or other shortening "A €. Raisins 1 tbsp. Grated orange rind nuts as desired Mash sweet potatoes with fork. Add all other ingredients and mix well together. Put into casserole and bake in 350° oven about thirty minutes. ORANGE SUGAR COOKIES Mrs. Thompson Crawford, Fairmont, West Virginia (Original Recipe) ie c. Shortening 3 isp. Aking powder 1% c. Sugar 1 tsp. Sa 2 eggs grated rind of 1 medium-sized orange 3 c. Flour 4 tbsp. Orange juice Cream shortening, sugar, and eggs together. Add sifted dry ingredients to first mixture along with orange juice and nnd. Chill. Roll out or use cookie press. Bake in 350° oven for ten to fifteen minutes. ButTerscotcu PuppING Franklin, West Virginia, Relief Society 2 c. Brown sugar "4 c. Butter 1 qt. Cold water Boil down to a light syrup in a saucepan and then beat the mixture. Second Mixture 2 eggs 1 c. Sweet milk 1 c. White sugar 2 tsp. Baking powder 2 tbsp. Vanilla 2/2 c¢. Sifted flour Beat eggs and sugar and add vanilla and milk. Then add the flour and baking powder. Put the dough in the syrup and set it in the oven to bake until brown. Looks like a cake. Makes four to six servings. Guard Your SFamily—SFight Cancer With a Checkup and a Check Submitted by Esther Allegretti American Cancer Society, Inc. [ is reassuring to know that today one cancer patient in three is being saved. A few years ago only one in four was saved. But we can do better. Half of those who get cancer could be saved if we guard ourselves and our families with thoughtful attention to health checkups and speedy medical attention at the earliest sign of a symptom. You can help the American Cancer Society in its crusade against the disease by sending a generous check to your local unit of the Society.