THE "SELFISHNESS" OF JACOB AND RACHEL. 405 And now comes Maria Rachel Ellen Brown, commonly known to us as Rachel, into this story. Rachel was born in Wiltshire, England, "about" 1864. This is purely a guess date, and. must not be taken as fact. I will admit, I am poor at guessing in this case, and I dare not ask the lady for a more definite date. Rachel was what is sometimes called a "maiden lady." Why she had never married I can not understand, for she certainly was good, and true, and — very good looking. Her hair, profuse and black, was turning gray in places. Her face was somewhat pale and colorless. The first impression of the lady was that she had very little to say, but that impression was dispelled by further acquaintance. She was also a member of the Genealogical Society, and had a limited pedigree. She had about completed the temple work for her connected line, and she was now hesitating whether or not to venture into the broad field of Browns of Wiltshire. Sister Brown was poor in this world's goods. She was now beginning to feel the effects of too much hard labor in her younger days. She could do only the lighter kinds of work, and that was not plentiful. For weeks at a time, Rachel did not go to the temple, which grieved her very much. The burden of her concern seemed to be for others, those who had gone before without the privileges of the temple ordinances. We recommended Maria R. E. Brown to Jacob. She was glad to spend three days in the temple for his female names if he would spend the like number of days for her male names. When he hesitated about this last proviso, she explained that she had but a few male names left, so his services would not be required long. This was satisfactory; and it was in this way that these two good people came to work together for the salvation of souls. All that summer the work went smoothly and well with Jacob and Rachel. Frequently they came together to the office to get names. When endowments had been taken for husbands and wives, they saw to it that they were properly sealed, and their children adopted to them, thus completing each family as they went along. They were happy in their work. Jacob would tell us of his job, and explain how the Lord had opened the way for him in the obtaining of it. Rachel would also frequently drop in on us, more we imagined to tell us of some things that Jacob had done than on matters of genealogical business. The temple that year closed for the summer vacation the first part of July. The very day before the closing one, Jacob and Rachel came together to the office. Jacob's cheeks were redder than ever, and it seemed that what little blood was in Rachel's body was trying to get into her face. Evidently, they came on unusual business. They would not tell us what they wanted until 
 Closing time when all others had left. Up to that time Jacob ha • been aimlessly looking at German books, while Rachel had found one from Wiltshire, evidently full of Brown names. "Well, now, what can we do for you?" "Veil, you see, ve vant you to make out a sealing sheet midt my name and Sister Brown's name on it." "What?" we did not grasp the situation for a moment. "Sister Brown and me — ve has stood for so many mans and vifes in de temple — married for time and eternity — now ve stand for ourselves." "Oh, you are going to get married?" . "Yes; Rachel and me." The old man straightened, and at the moment he looked every inch the fine man he was. Rachel closed the Wiltshire record and came and stood by him. Why, yes, they made a fine couple, well matched in every way. There was room for Rachel in Jacob's quarters in the apartment house as well as in his heart. Why shouldn't they get married, and then go on together in the noble work they were doing? "\^ill you make out de sheet?" Jacob asked. "You see, tomorrow is de last day." "But, dear me — you must have something other than a temple "Vat?" sheet." "Why, you must get a license from the County Clerk." "Is dat so?" "Yes; and I fear it is too late today to do that." Both of them were very much disturbed at this news. Rachel found her tongue first. "Now I know we have been selfish. I have been fearful all the time that we have been thinking too much of our own happiness, Jacob — you know I told you so. Temple workers should not be selfish — and I fear this is selfishness — the Lord don't want us to, I fear." "Sister Brown." asked I, "do you want to?" "I — I like Brother Sweizermann very much, and if— " "Then," said I, "don't worry. I'll see that you get your license tomorrow in time. Come here in the morning — and go right on with the wedding preparations. The next morning, with everything arranged, Jacob and Rachel went through the temple as usual, and took endowments for two of their ancestors. They got through early, and shortly after "high noon" they went into the sealing room. I was there to witness the ceremony, and I have never seen a more beautiful or impressive one.