In the Kitchen Laboratory. By Hascl Love Dunford. AS TO THE CANNING OF FRUIT. About this time of the year, many of our sisters are busily engaged in steaming and sweating their lives away over the preserving kettle, making jelly and jam, or putting away the fruit for winter. Many of us have come to believe that we could not face the winter without six or seven hundred and even a thousand quarts of fruit in the cellar. Unless one has fruit in the orchard, or spoiling in the garden, I claim the cost is too much. When a woman counts her time worth anything, to purchase fruit at high prices, and with sugar so expensive, is sheer extravagance. I am afraid many do not count the cost. Small fruits this season are running as high as twenty-five and thirty cents per quart on the shelf. "Many families turn up their noses at merely fruit for dessert in the winter. Then it is generally accompanied with cookies, or cake, which adds to the expense. A very good plan that I have adopted since my marriage is to put up less, and improve the quality. I buy the best to be had, and put it up in mv very best manner, and then I use it for special desserts, and find' that it is always relished by members of waste the family. It is a different question *where fruit is going to waste in one's own yard. That must be taken care of. . Another I find in many homes is the hurriedly prepared jelly pr jam and preserves. They are not properly cared for, made with little interest, sometimes burnt, the jelly is tough and leathern, consequently they stand on the shelf to sugar and mold and are then thrown out in the springtime. Fruit that is kept from year to year Is never so good as when used up each year. With so many canning clubs being organized throughout our state, the fruit and vegetables should not go to waste. There the girls have their outfit and the fruit can be taken care of at a low cost. Let the members of your families have all the fruit they want while it is on. It can be had until nearly Thanksgiving time, and then there are so many nice varieties of apples that can be stored for winter. Put into your cellar for the winter the Snow apple, the Wealthy, the Macatosh Red. all these for early use. . The Jonathan, Rhode Island Greening, Roman Beauty, and Winter Pearmain for later use, and thus the problem of apples is solved. Soon the oranges, bananas, figs and dates 
 come, and with prunes and dried fruit, I see no reason for the average woman to fret her life away canning fruit. Housekeepers who have cash to spend, and who have no orchard, will find it more economical as to time, labor, and money, to purchase canned fruits by the case, in the fall, when prices are low. Our own Utah canneries hold the record for quality and price. RECIPES FOR WARM WEATHER. Cheese Pudding. 1 c. bread crumbs. 1 c. grated cheese, or cut in small 2 a. salt. pieces. 4 eggs. 1 c. milk. Soak crumbs in milk. Add salt and cheese. Then the yolks and lastly the whites beaten stiff. Bake in moderate beaten slightly oven until set. Spanish Rice. 1 c. washed rice. 2 medium pimentos cut fine, or 2 c. strained tomato. green peppers. 3 c. water. 2 tb. butter. 2 medium onions cut fine. Bring to the boiling point. Bake in covered dish one hour. leak's Oatmeal Cookies. 2-3 c. butter. 1 c. sugar;-. 2 c. raisins, cut fine. 3 eggs. 1 1. nutmeg. 1 c. nuts, cut fine. V2 c. sour milk. 2 t. cinnamon. 2 c. oatmeal. 1 c. flour. 1 1. soda. Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs. Put milk and flour, oatmeal and seasoning, raisins and nuts. Dissolve the soda in a little warm water. Drop from a spoon and bake in a quick oven. Chocolate Gelatine Pudding. 1 envelope gelatine.  c. water. 3 c. milk scalded. 1 t. vanilla. 1 c. sugar. 2 squares chocolate. Serve with whipped cream. Soak gelatine in water. Melt chocolate. Add a little of hot milk at a time until all chocolate is blended. Add remaining ingredients. Set away to harden.