SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JULY 15, 1886.


[Column 1]
MRS. NEWMAN'S PETITION
CRITICISED. 
	The readers of the EXPONENT will see that 
several pages are filled with Mrs. Angie F. New-
man’s petition to Congress, in which she makes a
specialty of abusing and traducing the “Mor-
mons.” One wonders what claims the Gentiles of
Utah could make upon the government if they had
not this adverse “Mormon” material, which they
manufacture wholesale, to use,to turn the scale in 
their favor. But no cause can stand long or be
permanently successful which is propped up with
falsehood. Every person who reads Mrs. New-
man’s petition can see how false is the ground she
takes, and her reasoning is all from false premises. 
She wants Congress to believe she knows “Mor-
mon” women and their needs better than they do
themselves. She speaks of her knowledge of fe-
male suffrage in Utah, when it is well known she
lives in Nebraska, and most of her knowledge is
second hand, and gained from such authority as
Mrs. Paddock’s and Mrs. Froiseth’s sensational 
novels and the works written by apostates. It is 
idle for such people to talk of what the women of
Utah ought, or ought not to have; the women of
Utah are the best judges for themselves on their
own subject, and being free agents, and also large-
ly native-born American citizens known something
about the privileges they are entitled to, and, hav-
ing rightful possession of the ballot are prepared
to protest emphatically against disfranchisement, 
and indignantly against the interference of Mrs. 
Newman and her clique, who make capital in
Washington by their malicious and cruel attacks
upon “Mormons” and their institutions. 
	Possibly if Mrs. Newman had crossed the plains
in ox teams, and toiled and suffered privation, 
hunger and hardship such as many hundreds of
“Mormon” women have, she might set up a claim
in Congress on her own account; but to go there
and speak of the stronghold of Churches and
ecclesiastical governments is something more than
absurd in women, who are collecting funds under
false pretences to bolster up a Church whose re-
sources are failing to supply the demand and fur-
nish salaries for ministers and teachers. There
can be no objection to appropriations by Congress
to assist in building “Industrial Homes,” but the
“Mormon” women do object to begging on their
account. They are abundantly able to plead their
own cause before Congress, if it were necessary, 
and they would not need to go there and abuse
“Gentile” women to get a hearing. The entangle-
ments  and  environments  of  the Mormon
Church which Mrs. Newman refers  to
are all a MYTH, and if any doubt exists 
in the minds of members of Congress, there is 
abundant testimony to repudiate her statements. 
There are not women enough here to fill the situa-
tions already open to them, and as to the capabili-
ties and the efficiency of domestic help, let one 
sit and listen to the conversation of the women of
the East about help, and one need not be long in 
concluding that “Industrial Training Schools”are

[Column 2] 
needed there. If Mrs. Newman thinks that the
young girls who leave England, Scandinavia, Ger-
many or Switzerland, for the sake of gathering to
Zion, will fall into the snare she has laid to decoy 
them from the truth of the Gospel she is vainly
deceiving herself. 
	The Methodists who are asking for this appro-
priation  have been here in Utah for years,
and have established schools here, and employed
teachers to fill these positions, and held out in-
ducements to the children of the Latter-day Saints
to come to them and so on, and how many have
they succeeded in getting? Here and there one 
or two or three children of some one who had 
either lost the faith or never had any to lose. 
There are district schools in Utah, and no need 
whatever for the people of the East to be taxed to 
educate the children of either “Mormons” or
Gentiles in Utah. 
	But it is useless to waste words on Mrs. New-
man’s petition, because it is so flimsy, b[--]ng utter-
ly erroneous; there is scarcely a thread of truth 
to hold the whole thin spun fabric together. She
talks of the nineteen wives of Brigham Young,
and then his spiritual wives and his daughters, as
though this had anything to do with her getting
an appropriation, or with the misuse of woman’s
suffrage. No woman could vote who was not a
citizen in her own right, either natural born or
legally married to a natural born or naturalized
citizen, and it was quite a common occurrence for 
women to be naturalized as well as men. 
	The polished shafts of Error may strike at
Truth in the most skillful manner and with
venomed darts may even pierce and wound her, 
but they will be broken, and though she be
stamped upon, she cannot be stamped out, and
Truth will triumph in the contest, though the vic-
tory be hard won. Falsehood may flourish and
its victims may suffer persecution in consequence,
but eternal principles must stand, and those who
proclaim them know, that
	 “Who speaks the Truth stabs Falsehood to the heart.”
		To be Continued.


