EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Having a little leisure time I thought I would
address a few lines to the EXPONENT. We have
a Relief Society organized here, presided over by
Sister Hannah LeFevre, and though few in num-
bers, we consider it a pleasure as well as a duty
to meet together in the interest of Woman’s rights
and privileges, to exchange ideas and sentiments,
and thus cultivate our minds and enlarge our
abilities. We are somewhat isolated consequent-
ly are deprived of many associations, and instruc-
tions enjoyed by those more favorably situated.
We take the EXPONENT and learn from it, the


spirit of the times, and the advancement of 
woman, and are deeply interested in the instruc-
tion it  contains.  On the 4th of June we were
favored with a visit from President Crosby and
wife, Sister Myers and Sister Clarke of Panguitch 
in the interest of the Relief Society, which we
very much appreciated. 
	We held a meeting and received valuable in-
struction and felt encouraged to fulfill our duties
better in the future.  We have been rather dilatory
in the past.  We labor under disadvantages main-
ly arising from the distance we live apart.  The
majority of us have large families and the con-
sequent duties engross the most of our time, hav-
ing our clothing neat but plain, our food simple 
but wholesome, and appetizing, we would be en-
abled to spare a little time in which to devote to
intellectual pleasures it is necessary that we read
good books and periodicals in order that we keep
pace with the times in which we live, and by so
doing it will implant in our hearts a higher stand-
ard of life, and furnish food for pleasant thoughts
and we will go to our labors feeling rested and re-
freshed; and it will create a desire for that which 
is beautifying and ennobling.  I think we were
created for a nobler purpose than spending our
entire time in common drudgery.  I do not pro-
pose to neglect home comforts, but on the con-
trary consider home should be made the most at-
tractive place for children and parents, but, at the
same time, think our whole duty is not fulfilled it
we do not cultivate our intelligence and become fa-
miliar with the current events of the day, and
learn what is going on in the great world around
us.  It will give children a higher estimate of pa-
rents, consequently they will have more influence 
over them.  Wishing you every success in the
work in which you are engaged, I remain, 
			Yours respectfully. 
		 				SUSIE TEBBS, 
				Secretary of Relief Society.
   Tebbsdale, Utah, July 1st, 1886.


