DEAR AUNT EM:
I have just been watching a glorious sunrise.
Some rather heavy, dark clouds looming up in
the north west and east, seemed to tip a little to
the right, as if on purpose to show us their "silver
linings" which were indeed beautiful.
	The scene reminded me of the clouds still
hovering over our people; and I felt comforted
in thinking that according with the morning pros-
pect in our political horizon, "behind the clouds
is the sun still shining," whether its ways are ap-
parent to mortal eyes or not.  The clouds parted
while I watched, and grew thinner and paler as
they drifted away, which I took as a good omen.
	This little settlement is established in one of
the cosy nooks in the tops of the mountains.
We have been here for more than two weeks, and,
in many respects, have greatly enjoyed our visit.
	I have attended fast meeting, Relief Society
meeting and the Sunday services; have been to
an old-fashioned quilting, and out visiting three
afternoons; and withal have found that the most
friendly feelings exist, so far as I am able to
judge, between all the families of the neighbor-
hood.  Not a sentence of backbiting, or even
gossipy rumor have I heard uttered.  Every one
seems to understand his or her own business, and
to have nothing to do but attend to it.  In this,
as also in some other respects, many of our older
and larger settlements might pattern after this
one with profit.  Another excellent item is, the
Word of Wisdom seems to be very generally ob-
served here, which renders a more agreeable at-
mosphere than is usually found in this wonderful
age of civilization and reform.  Only think of
passing a whole fortnight without once being
nauseated by disgusting tobacco fumes.  Such has
been my happy lot; and in this regard, it would
be my choice to dwell in such a locality as this
forever.
	Bishop George Coleman and his wife, Sister
Jane, seem to be especially adapted to lead in
this little community; and in all things, both of a
spiritual and temporal nature, mutual improvement
is the order of the day.
	The Bishop and his family being old and valued
friends of ours, we naturally feel quite at home
in the ward.
	This small neat valley is almost entirely sur-
rounded by high hills or low mountains; the
scenery is picturesque, a blending of loveliness
and grandeur.
	The people talk of having a "Twenty-fourth of
July celebration." If they do, it will likely be
quite an interesting occasion, as the union which
exists here, is sure to make almost any movement
successful.  Next Saturday and Sunday a con-
ference is to be held at Fish Lake.  Some of the
folks are going from this place, but we are not.
	We begin to talk of starting home, but are un-
decided how soon we shall do so.  You may hear
from me again before I see you, but for the present
accept love and adieus.
								LULA.


