	WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	Mr. Edmunds presented the following peti-
tion of Mrs. Angie F. Newman:

To the honorable the Senate and House of Rep-
	resentatives of the Forty-ninth Congress:

	GENTLEMEN: The undersigned respectfully
represents that on the 6th of March, 1886, 2,-
000 Mormon women assembled in mass meeting
in Salt Lake City to protest against the inva-
sion of their rights by Federal interference.
The spirit of protest crystalized in the appoint-
ment of a committee to memorialize the Presi-
dent and Congress of the United States in the
form of a "Declaration of grievances" of the
people of Utah.
	Said committee drafted the memorial, pro-
ceeded to Washington. and presented it to the
national Congress.
	It has been read in your hearing.
	The following preamble and resolutions are
embodied therein: 
	Whereas, the rights and liberties of women are placed
in jeopardy by the present cruel and inhuman proceedings
in the Utah courts, and in the contemplated measure in
Congress to deprive the women voters in Utah of the elec-
tive franchise: Therefore, be it
	Resolved by the women of Utah in mass meeting assem-
bled, That the suffrage originally conferred upon us as a 
political privilege has become a vested right by possession
and usage for fifteen years, and that we protest against be-
ing deprived of that right without process of law, and for
no other reason  than that we do not vote to suit our politi-
cal opponents.

	These resolutions are the expression of Mor-
mon sentiment.
	There are Gentile women in Utah Territory.
On this basis of civil equality their "protest"
should have equal consideration from your
honorable body.
	As an eye witness of the ceremonies at the
Theatre meeting; as a long and close observer
of the effect of female suffrage in Utah; having
definite personal knowledge of the Gentile
sentiment touching this question; as a member
of the committee who drafted and circulated
the petitions (mentioned in the following) ask-
ing the repeal of the act conferring the elective
franchise upon the women of Utah, the under-
signed, in defense of the great principles of
civil equity, respectfully submits the following
memorial, asking the passage of section 7 of the
Edmunds bill, now pending in the national
Congress.
	All law, human or divine, is the exponent
of sovereignty.
	The duty of individual or national recog-
nition of or obedience to law is measured by
the nature of that sovereignty.
	Divine law is unconditional. From it there
is no appeal.
	Human law may be only a synonym of des-
potism; the arbitrary edicts of rulers the very
antonyms of justice. The very elements of
revolution sometimes inhere in civil enact-
ments.
	Under a republican form of government the
people are the sovereignty. When, therefore,
the will of the people crystallizes at the bal-
lot box its mandate is supreme.
	Liberty's urn is a safe repository of law.
	Section 7 of the Edmunds bill, now in the 
hands of the House Judiciary, Committee
reads:

	It shall not be lawful for any female to vote at any elec-
tion hereafter held in the Territory of Utah for any public
purpose whatsoever, and no such vote shall be received or
counted or given effect, and any and every act of the 
governor and legislative assembly of the Territory of Utah
providing for or allowing the registration or voting by fe-
males is hereby annulled.

	This attempt to repeal the Territorial act
which confers the franchise upon the women
of the Territory of Utah has been interpreted

[Column 2]
by its opponents as a subversion of the great
principles of civil equality—as retrogresion
in politics—as formulating civil disabilities on
the basis of religious belief.
	This construction, however, is a perversion
of facts, and can only be entertained by those
who have studied the problem outside the
Territory. The test of given principles, under
a disparity of conditions, must yield unex-
pected results. The civil polity of Utah Terri-
tory is unrepublican. It was framed by a 
people anti-American in sentiment and hostile
in purpose;a people unfamiliar with the genius,
of republican institutions; fresh from the des-
potisms of the Old World; saturated with its
spirit; whose initial and final intent is the es-
tablishment of a theocracy within the Repub-
lic; who, claiming its immunities while ignor-
ing its supremacy, borrow only so much of
its constitutional forms as best conserve their
independence; who locating the "kingdom to
come" in the fastnesses of the mountains, ce-
ment its foundation stones with an ecclesias-
ticism unknown in the annals of history.
Thrones and shrines were builded, crowns worn,
and oblations offered, ere the eye of the nation
caught the smoke of its incense. 
	Railroads are great civilizers. The snort of
the engine is the bugle note of progress. In
1869 the Union Pacific laid its last cable.
The tramp of the on-coming millions began
to echo along the canyons. A new civllization
began to creep into the valleys. The Moun-
tains of Utah, with their threads of silver
and dust of gold, called with a hundred
tongues "Come," and they came—loyal men,
men fresh from the victory of battle, from the
sacred atmosphere of Christian homes. They
came to stay.
	The pulse of national life began to be felt
in Zion. The hierarchy must resist its throb.
The national Government had blundered in
making its chief governor of the Territory, a 
man whose dictum in civil or ecclesiasti-
cal circles was absolute, whose slightest com-
mand was emphasized by a "Thus saith the
Lord" With intuitions which amounted to
prescience, this dictator foreshadowed the dis-
solution of church rule in civil administration
through the influx of Gentile residents and
the ballot in the hands of American citizens.
Diplomatic in action, resourceful in methods,
holding the keys of power, spiritual and tem-
poral, this magnetic brain evolved defensive
measures which were executed with celerity
and precision.
	The most audacious of these measures was
the proscription placed upon the mining inter-
ests. As often as the Gentiles opened the
mines, as often as Brigham Young went out
with a band of benighted dupes, and
under the light of the stars closed the mines
with imposing ceremonies and pronounced ana-
themas upon the adventurers. This failing, the
"shot-gun policy" was adopted. The com-
manding general at Fort Douglas was obliged 
to detail soldiers to protect the men engaged
in working the mines, for several successive
seasons. Still the miners multiplied.
	In October, 1869, Mr. E. L. T. Harrison, edi-
tor of the Utah (Mormon) Magazine, ventured
to publish an article advocating the mining in-
terests. Immediately the recalcitrant editor,
together with the publisher, Mr. W. S. Godbe,
who had endorsed the article, were summoned
before the high council to answer for violation
of the decrees of the infallible priesthood
George Q. Cannon conducted the trial. To
the test questions, "Do you believe President
Young has the right to dictate to you in all
things, temporal and spiritual?" a negative an-
swer was returned, for which both gentlemen
were excommunicated from the church. By
virtue of the same high authority the legisla-
ture passed laws taxing heavily the products
of the miners. Nothing daunted, capitalists

[Column 3]
and prospectors multiplied. The wily de-
ceiver then evoluted from his narrow soul the
magnanimous scheme of enfranchising the
women. The Mormon legislature passed the
bill. The Gentile miners were mostly un-
married men, or had left their families in the
East. Every Mormon citizen thus had
his civil power extended in correspondence
with his numerous alliances.
	Thus a man with half a dozen wives would
now have half a dozen votes besides his own.
"Brigham Young would have nineteen for his
nineteen wives, to say nothing of his daughters,
and the whole army of spiritual wives he might
produce."
	To the intelligent discussion of the justice
of this franchise it is necessary (1) to examine
the statute on which it is based: (2) to enquire
who were the law-making power; (3) to 
determine if statute itself is in harmony with
organic law.
	The act conferring upon women the elective
franchise, approved February 12, 1870, reads:

	Every woman of the age of twenty-one years, who has
resided in this Territory six months next preceding any
general or special election, born or naturalized in the United 
States, or who is the wife, widow, or the daughter of a
native-born or naturalized citizen of the United States,
shall be entitled to vote at any election in this Territory.

	Class legislation is hereby established, the
fundamental principle of republicanism vio-
lated, and the statute thereby made void.
	The qualifications of the male voter as fixed
by the Territorial legislature are as follows:
	First. If native born, he shall be six
months resident in the Territory. If foreign
born, he shall be a naturalized citizen, five
years resident in the country. He shall be
twenty-one years of age. He shall be a tax-
payer.
	No qualifications are defined for the female
voter except such as are overruled by the dis-
junctive "or"—"or who is the wife, widow, or 
daughter of a native-born or naturalized
citizen."
	It would puzzle an astute registrar of elec-
tions to discover who is thereby debarred the
exercise of the franchise.
	The woman or girl who is not the wife,
widow, or daughter of somebody might justly
be denominated "anomalous."  The naturali-
 zation provision was of no weight, as proven
in the immediate results which followed the
passage of the Edmunds bill. Under its regis-
tration clause aliens are required to produce
their papers of citizenship. In the two weeks,
preceding the first election thereafter, two
thousand (2,000)aliens most of whom had
habitually voted their wives and daughters as
well, were naturalized in the two district courts
of Ogden and Salt Lake City. The inequali-
ty of the statute and its license of power is
seen in its application to emigrants. The
trains freighted with recruits for Zion, which
arrived a day or two preceding elections, were
met at the depot by church officials. The
emigrants were taken to the tithing head-
quarters. Women and girls were then and
there selected by aspirants for sealing orders,
taken to the endowment house, and the mar-
riage ceremony performed. On the morrow
these wives of "native-born or naturalized
citizens," wholly ignorant of our language or
laws, or the significance of the franchise, with
the odor of the emigrant ship [-]till upon their
clothing, were full-fleged voters, and deposited
their ballots in full conformity with the statu-
tory requirements. Furthermore, the commit-
tees of the Emigration Fund Company desig-
nated the localities where newcomers should
find homes.
	In case of a doubtful election at a given
point, re-enforcements were dispatched thither
from the new colony. Mrs. Fanny Stenhouse, who
is the most gifted woman over identified with the


[Column 1]
Mormon church, whose statements are as re-
liable as truth itself, enunciates the spirit of 
this franchise act in these words: 
	I have often seen one solitary man driving into the city
a whole wagon load of women of all ages and sizes. They 
were going to the polls and their vote would be one. 
Many have voted two or three times. Men christened
their mules, conferring upon them the names of men, and
made them vote also. 
	"Again and again has it been charged in the
public prints of Utah, by eye witnesses, and 
unrefuted by the Mormon church, that the
genealogies of the dead, the unborn, and the
deceased had been represented at the ballot-
box. 
	"It is easy to see," says Mrs. Stenhouse, (by these meth-ods) "how the influence of the priesthood has been exerted
and the women themselves have been made the instruments
for riveting still more firmly their own fetters." 
	Judge Emerson, of Utah, in 1882, in a test
case said: 
	All regulations upon the subject (elective franchise) must
be uniforn and impartial. Any provisions which should
impose upon a particular class of citizens conditions and
requirements not required of all others is void. 
	Judge Twiss, of the same court, says: 
	Any construction of the statutes that would give one
class of persons the right of voting upon easier and differ-
ent terms than those given to another class would make an
inequality in the laws odious to every sense of justice and
every principle of republican government. Such statutes
would be monstrous and an offense to a government of
equal and just laws. 
	Yet here we find unnaturalized, non-tax-pay-
ing, minor females using the ballot. If the
daughter of a naturalized (?) citizen may vote, 
why not the son? If a minor, non tax-paying
girl may vote, why not the boy? Thus it is
seen that the daughter votes on the basis of
the eligibility of the father! Such is the
nature of the statute, under any just construc-
tion, void at the beginning. 
	We have seen that the "free and independ-
ent State of Desert" had been organized in
1850. During the lifetime of Brigham Young,
"on the day succeeding the adjournment of
the Territorial legislature, he, in the character
of governor of Desert, convened the same
body as a State legislature, and the business
of the State was then and there transacted."—
[Madame La Tour p. 344.] This State legis-
lature sat in judgment on the acts of the Ter-
ritorial legislature, confirming or repealing, as
the interests of the Mormon church dictated. 
This action was final. Nearly every member
of this Territorial or "State" legislature was a 
Mormon high priest, and was the possessor
of from two to seven wives. 
	Brigham Young had nineteen wives and an
indefinite list of daughters. 
	Such was the law-making power! 
	The postulate is easily sustained, that the
elective franchise was never legally conferred
upon the women of Utah. They were never
eufranchised by the Federal Government, or 
by any branch of it, or by its representatives. 
They were enfranchised by a church organiza-
tion in which the authority of the Federal
Government was not recognized even as a
factor. They were enfranchised for church
ends alone—to make the church impregnable
to outward attack, independent and hostile in
civil attitude. 
	To recognize the act is to recognize the su-
premacy of the church in civil administration. 
As proof we quote the following from Bishop
Lunt, of the Mormon Church, as published in
the San Francisco Chronicle: 
	Our vote is solid and will always remain so. It will be
thrown where the most good will be accomplished for the
church. The women of Utah vote, and they never desert
the colors of the Church; they vote for the tried friends of
the church. You can imagine the results which wisdom 
may bring about, with the assistance of a church organiza-

[Column 2]
tion like ours.  In some great political crisis the two pres-
ent political parties will bid for our support. Utah will be
admitted as a polygamous State, and the other Territories
we have peacefully subju[---]ed will be admitted also. We
will then hold the balance of power, and will dictate to the
country. We possess the ability to turn the political scale
in any particular community we desire. 
	This is the real animus of the movement.
This theory is made self-evident in the fact
that the same body of men who passed the
act of 1870 legislated away the right of dower
—an infamous scheme to give the husband the
leverage of power over the first wife. If she
refuses to give the husband a second, he in re-
taliation may will the property to the second, 
or the tenth, and the first wife be left penniless. 
	Oh! boasted magnanimity of the Mormon
hierarchy touching the civil status of woman! 
"Oh! Liberty, what deeds are done in thy
name!"
	Again, the Territories are the nation's de-
pendencies. We may term the States the na-
tion's children, the Territories are its minors 
still under subjection. The Territories have
no acquired sovereignty. 
	The organic act by which a Territorial gov-
ernment for Utah is established is the national
character of organization. The powers of the
legislative assembly are strictly defined and
limited by said act. Section 6 reads: 
	The legislative power of said Territory shall extend to
all rightful subjects of legislation consistent with the Con-
stitution of the United States and the provisions of this act,
All the laws passed by the legislative assembly and governor
snal be submitted to the Congress of the United States, 
and if disapproved shall be null and of no effect. 
	Section 5 limits the rights of citizenship to
"the free white male inhabitant," and confers
upon the legislative assembly the right of de-
fining the qualifications of voters, "provided,
the right of suffrage shall be exercised only
by citizens of the United States." 
	Therefore, the enfranchisement of the women
of Utah is in contravention of the organic act,
and is a repudiation of national supremacy. 
It has been so interpreted by the highest legal 
authority of the Territory. After the passage
of the Edmunds bill it was held by the judges
of the courts that registration could be denied
women on the basis of the invalidity of the
Territorial statute. The Utah Commission
were asked to so declare. But while listening
to the argument the Commission declined to
act. 
	Under these conditions, to construe the re-
peal of said statute as a violation of "vested
rights," is to subordinate the national Govern-
ment to a Church corporation. But it is
claimed that justice is met in the provision of
the Edmunds bill of 1882, which disfranchises
polygamists. The Edmunds bill, in effect,
corrected the abuses of the ballot by requiring
registration, by defining the age and date of
residence.
	Polygamists were disfranchsed; then the re
lations could be established—then the Mormon 
conscience repudiated perjury—then evasion
could not be sustained. The Mormons sent
circulars to their people declaring that
daughters of eligible fathers and the first
wives and widows of polygamists were entitled
to vote. The Commission were compelled to
make definite ruling on each point. After the
test of years it is found that the cohesion of
the Mormou Church has not been invaded by
the execution of this law, nor its spirit of re-
sistance to national authority restrained. What
then?  Shall the United States compromise
with this quasi sovereignty under the specious
plea of "vested rights." 
	The franchise is first a privilege conferred. 
It becomes a "right" by possession. "It can-
not be taken away except by revolution." 
This is a truism in political science under gen-
eral conditions. The parties enfranchised,
holding within themselves, by their own ballot, 

[Column 3]
the power to retain said franchise. If the
law-makers are false to their constituency and
attempt forceful withdrawal,revolution follows,
and an election of representatives who will
sustain the constituency may be had. Eng-
land and America are constantly extending
suffrage to new classes. They can add to the
list, but cannot withdraw. Not because the
ballot is a primal right. It is a privilege con-
ferred. But in its exercise inheres the power
to perpetuate itself. This is true in all the
States of this Union by virtue of State
sovereignty. 	
	A city government, however, might grant
municipal suffrage to women and the next 
legislature could pass a law prohibiting the ex-
ercise of the franchise in municipalities. The
city's power of self government is delegated
power. Exactly such is the status of the Terri-
tory. Moreover, if Congress had endorsed the
action of the Territorial legislature, Congress
has power to repeal its own action within the
limits of the National Constitution. The
Constitution of the United States has never
been amended so as to put the ballot in the
hands of women. Herein truth is stranger
than fiction! 
	The next argument of the opponents of re-
peal is—
	If you disfranchise the women why not disfranchise the
men?
	An interrogation is not a reason. It is not logic.
It is subterfuge in absence of argument. The
disfranchisement of the men is not equally just. 
The men were enfranchised by National 
authority and in consonance with constitution-
al provision. The women by an alien church
organization, which renders no allegiance to
the Government. Is it political wisdom to dis-
franchise the men? 
	The administration of a Republican govern-
ment is in the hands of the people. The authori-
ty must rest somewhere. The responsibility must 
be met by somebody. The question is simply that
of the practicability of the dissolution of the
local government. The Gentile sentiment in 
Utah favors such dissolution. Gentile
voters are willing to be disfranchised, that
civil order may be elvolved out of civil chaos.
	The Gentile policy to effect such result is
that of a legislative commission. 
	There is but one serious argument against it
—the probably transfer of Mormon political
representation to adjacent Territories, where,
in such event, the battle must be fought again. 
The disfranchisement of the women makes
possible the admission of the Gentile civil ele-
ment on an equality with the Mormon element;
gives the loyal Gentile the civil status of the
disloyal Mormon. It is claimed that this has
been accomplished already in the disfranchise-
ment of the polygamists. I deny it. Mormonism
and polygamy are in collusion. Polygamists
control the elections. The priesthood select
the candidates, and no man is put upon the
ticket, either for legislative or municipal office, 
who is not pledged to support "the divine
order." A "scratched" ticket is unknown.
At least two polygamous wives are members of
the Territorial central committee. 
	Said Dr. Ellen Ferguson, one of the Mor-
mon memorialists, at the theatre meeting at
which the Congressional memorial was drafted: 
	The ballot in the hands of the Mormon women is a
mighty power, and our enemies know it. When we raise
our voices to protest, it will be well for the Government to
listen. 
	With this "mighty power" in local politics,
county and municipal officers are entirely
Mormon. 
	The Territorial legislature had its first Gen-
tile member this year, sent from Park City, and
a bill passed both houses to redistrict the Terri-
tory in order to avert such calamities in
future. 
	Laws controlling municipal elections are


[Column 1]
such that the aldermen are placed on the gener-
al list. Thus no Gentile ward can elect a 
Gentile member of the city council. 
	Withdraw this "mighty power" in elections—
of 12,000 female votes—and very soon county
and municipal Gentile officers could be elected
and Gentile representatives chosen for the
legislature, This would be the immediate re-
sult in Ogden. Is the need of such representa-
tion commensurate with the cost? Judge ye. 
Under the Utah statutes no sexual crime is 
punishable save "rape," which law was evident-
ly framed for the Gentiles. Chastity has no
protection. The Mormon legislature, sitting
since the organization of the Territory, has
never framed a statute touching incest, seduc-
tion, adultery, bigamy, or polygamy, save once. 
That was inadvertently done through a hasty
adoption of the California code, and it was re-
pealed at the next session. 
	The legislature of the past winter convened
during the excitement of the Hampton conspir-
acy. This conspiracy was a carefully con-
structed Mormon plot to blacken the character
of Gentile residents; to arrest and punish vic-
tims under assumed municipal (Mormon) au-
thority. For the execution of this dastardly
outrage, lewd women were imported, at Mor-
mon expense; their rooms furnished by the
Mormons, and arranged so that witnesses could 
be secreted. Scores of letters were addressed 
to Gentiles, inviting them to call on important 
business. The names of two hundred Gentiles
were put upon the "black list." The scheme
was thwarted by Judge Zane's ruling that
municipal courts had no jurisdiction. 
	Public sentiment, thus intensified, demanded
Territorial laws. The one Genlile member in-
troduced a bill which should punish any viola-
tor Mormon or Gentile. The legislature scarce-
ly wished to incur the odium of repudiation. 
They attempted to defeat the measure by in-
troducing a disgraceful substitute which pun-
ished "unmarried men who should debauch un-
married women."
	A bill passed both houses, which amended
the Ogden charter by delegating power to 
the municipality to punish sexual crimes un-
touched by general statute. This was the ini-
tial step towards granting to all incorporated
cities the power to deal with such offenses. 
Why? If the legislature enacted such statutes, 
Mormons as well as Gentiles would be subject
to arrest. The city officials.are Mormon. If 
cities had exclusive jurisdiction, Gentiles alone
would be made to feel the penalty of violation. 
Moreover, under the Mormon Church regime
Mormons are amenable only to church rule; 
are tried in ecclesiastical courts, and sentenced
by the bishops to suffer church, not civil, penal-
ties. Governor Murray, always loyal and
heroic in action in vetoing the Ogden charter
bill, used this language: 
	While lust can blight the whole Territory without finding
any rebuke at the hands of the legislature, the attempt to 
confer power on a municipal corporation to punish local
transgressions against morality in the indefinite, inadequate, 
and inoperative way done in this bill cannot have my sanc-
tion. 
	Again, polygamy, even under United States
law, is rarely punished, as convictions are only
obtained under the "unlawful cohabitation" 
clause, with Judge Zane's ruling that "holding
out to the world as wives" constitutes the of-
fense. Why? The Utah statutes are silent on 
the subject of marriage. No marriage licenses, 
no certificates of marriage, no civil records of
marriage, are required. Marriage ceremonies
are performed in the endowment house, wit-
nessed only by Mormons. The statute of limi-
tation cuts off prosecution in three years, i. e.,
it is a crime to live in polygamy the first 
three years; it is a virtue thereafter. Laws for 
the supression of sexual crimes can only be
enacted when Gentile representation predomin-
ates in the legislature,and can only be executed 

[Column 2]
when the city and county officials are Ameri-
can citizens, not alien theorists. It is urged 
that the ballot of the Gentile women is as po-
tent as that of the Mormon women. The cen-
ters of Gentile representation are the mining
districts. Most of the miners are unmarried
men, or men who have left their families in the
East. The vote of the Mormon women nulli-
fies Gentile political power in these districts. 
Gentile women rarely vote in any part of the 
Territory. First, because their ballot signifies
nothing; it is labor lost. Second, the general
exercise of the ballot in the Territory is such
a travesty upon all that is sacred to woman
that Christian motherhood refuses to be com-
promised  by  recognition of the nefarious
scheme. Where, then, is the argument against
the passage of section 7 of the pending Ed-
munds bill? In the adverse sentiment of the
advocates of universal suffrage in the States? 
The sentiment of even this class of distinguished
women is not altogether adverse. "The Wo-
man's Home Missionary Society" of the Me-
thodist Episcopal Church, of which Mrs. 
Rutherford B. Hayes is the president, with
such ladies as Mrs. Governor Foraker, of 
Ohio, Mrs. Bishops Walden, Warren, Wiley, 
and Andrews, and many others of recognized
ability and social power, members of its execu-
tive committee, at its national session in Oct., 
1883, passed, without a dissenting voice, the
following resolution:
	Resolved, That a committee be appointed to confer with
the civil and religious authorities at Salt Lake City, and
make careful investigation of the relation of the ballot in 
the hands of the women of Utah to Territorial legislation, 
to Congressional representation at the national capital, and,
above all, to its power to perpetuate the religious bondage
and domestic slavery of the women so enfranchised: and if 
they shall find the facts to warrant, they shall draft peti-
tions to be circulated for signatures, which shall be pre-
sented to the Congressional committee at Washington, ask-
ing for the disfranchisement of the women of Utah, or for
a radical change of the whole form of government. 
	In pursuance of the resolution, the following
committee was appointed: Rev. T. C. Iliff. su-
perintendent of Methodist missions in Utah; 
Judge Boreman of the Lalt Lake bar; Mrs. 
Paddock, of Salt Lake, author of many books; 
and Mrs. Angie F. Newman, of Nebraska. 
Mrs. Newman went immediately to Utah. The
committee then faithfully complied with every
specification of the resolution as to conference
and investigation. In harmony with the judg-
ment of Federal officers and ecclesiastical au-
thorities, the petition was drafted by the com-
mittee and circulated by the W. H. M. S.
	Just as the petition emerged from the press
in Salt Lake City, a dinner was given to Rev. 
Joseph Cook, of Boston, at the house of Mrs. 
Paddock, of the committee, at which were
present Federal and ecclesiastical authorities
who had endorsed the movement. Its scope
and purpose were the theme of discussion. 
Mrs. Newman offered the distinguished guest a 
copy of the petition. Upon examination he
exclaimed, "Excellent, excellent! I will sign it
and inclose it in a letter to Senator Edmunds."
Such is the estimate of those who have studied
the Mormon problem within the Territory. 
Individual and official signatures of organized
bodies of Christian women were obtained, re-
presenting 250,000 women in the States. 
	On the 16th of June, 1884, these petitions
were read in the United States Senate by Sena-
tor Hoar. Congress adjourned before the bill 
passed the House. Many of these 250,000 
women have been champions of equal suffrage
from the rostrum and in the press for many
years.
	Such is enlightened Christian sentiment—
sentiment which holds the sanctity of Christian
marriage and the protection of virtue as at
least co-equal with civil liberty. It is, we be-
lieve, only a misapprehension of the fact terse-
ly expressed in convention by the lamented 

[Column 3]
Bishop Wiley, "that woman suffrage in Utah
only means woman's suffering," which has led
any true woman to advocate its sustentation. 
The franchise conferred by a theocracy, exer-
cised under its dominance, made to conserve its
power, to perpetuate polygamous life, and to 
clothe lawlessness with authority, is not the
franchise of a Christian republic. Let the
act be repealed in the grant of a legislative
commission, otherwise in the passage of sec-
tion 7 of the Edmunds bill, for righteousness' 
sake, for humanity's sake, and in defense of 
liberty protected by law, the only liberty un-
der the flag. 	MRS. ANGIE F. NEWMAN. 
	S. Mis. 122—2.


