EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE have on hand minutes of the Woman’s
Conference of Tooele, Utah, Maricopa and Salt
Lake Stake, but on account of publishing Mrs.
Newman’s petition we had not space for them in.
this issue.

	WE find it impossible to more than touch upon
Mrs. Newman’s petition to Congress. The con-
tradictions to her mis-statements and errors will
furnish material for articles from the pens of many
of the sisters as well as more editorial matter.

	THE August election draws near, and we trust
women voters will not be remiss in casting in their
ballots, but practically demonstrate their apprecia-
tion of the franchise, and not only by voting on
election day, but by attending their Primaries in
their respective localities.

	CORRECTIONS: In the article “In Memoriam,”
where it reads Benediction by Bishop Atwood it
should be Bishop Clawson. In alluding to the
parents as Abraham and Betsy Wells, read Ab-
salom and Betsy Free; and in Original Recipes,
read ounces, instead of dozens, for all spices
mentioned. In the article “Princess Street Edin-
burgh”, for dock, read loch.

	ENCYCLOPEDIA: The American Encyclopedia
of Practical Knowledge illustrated is being can-
vassed for in Utah Territory. H.S.Reeves is agent
for it,and it seems likely to become very popular,
and, judging from its contents, it cannot fail to be
useful in the family and home. It is particularly
well adapted to farmers, to stock raisers and all 
that class of people. It contains general and


definite information on building houses, barns and
cellars, and in reference to the treatment of all do-
mestic animals, also fish and fowls, trees, grafting,
fruits, also forests, and on the subject of grain.
The information is quite varied and elaborate.
Many other subjects, and in fact, it would seem
all connected with the ordinary vocations of life
in America are treated upon and classified in such
a way that any person can turn to the page readily,
and at any time or in any emergency get reliable
authority to act upon. It is certainly a valuable
work to put into the hands of the people, and can-
not fail, we think, to give satisfaction. Such a
book must be of great benefit to people living in
isolated places where advice is not so easily ob-
tained at a moment's notice. In examining the
work there seems nothing lacking to make it com-
plete in every particular pertaining to every day
life and in practical experience, so far as book
knowledge will help one's efforts and energies.


