NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. H. M. T. Cutler has just published a
book entitled “Phillipia.” It is an interesting
woman’s rights book.

	An old woman of threescore and three-
quarters, living in Centralia, Ill., has secured
the contract for carrying the mails from the
railroad station to the postoffice at five dollars
a month.
 
	Mrs. Gladstone attended a Liberal meeting
at Mile End, London, July 2nd. In response
to deafening applause she made a short speech
of thanks, and read a message from her hus-
band, wishing success to the Liberal candidate
for that district.

	A correspondent of the N. Y. Tribune says
that fourteen of the seventy-six U. S. Senators
chew tobacco, and fifty-eight use it in one form
or another. Also, that of the 325 members of
the House, only a few abstain wholly from to-
bacco. The senators who do not use it are
Aldrich, Blair, Colquit, Dawes, Dolph, Hoar,
Jones of Nevada, McMillan, Miller, Mitchell
of Oregon, Morgan, Pike, Plumb, Van Wyck,
Teller and Payne. To this list of members we
take the liberty to add the name of the Utah
Delegate, John T. Caine.

	Mrs. Gladstone encourages industry and
thrift among the cottagers around her, and
gives them personal assistance in the cultiva-
tion of trees and flowers. Among the charit-
able institutions founded by her is the Indus-
trial School for Boys at Clapham.  To one
whom she had helped and who wishes to do 
some service for her in return, Mrs. Gladstone
said: “Do something for somebody else. A 
kind word, a bit of practical advice, a helping
hand, even if there is not much in it, will al-
ways be doing something for me. And more
than that, my child, it will be doing something
for yourself and something for God.”


Patents have been granted, to women, during
the week ending June 29, 1886, as follows:

	Laura E. Crosby, Oakland City, Ind., Burg-
lar Alarm.
	
	Minnie Dobson, New York, N.Y., Banjo-
frame.
	Harriet H. Hoge, Butte City, Montana,
Machine for stitching and smoothing em-
broidered and other fabrica


