		BY MISS EMMA JANE NIELD. 

	Ladies and Gentlemen: My first acknowledg-
ment must be to these kind young friends who
have honored me with this important position, 
and I desire to assure them that I appreciate
 highly this evidence of their friendship and
goodwill, and I trust that I may have the op-
portunity of proving my gratitude by laboring
for their advancement. I represent to-day
one of the fundamental principles and most
glorious truths ever established on earth. 
Liberty is the chief corner stone upon which
every nation rests, and when once assailed or
destroyed, the whole fabric will totter and fall. 
	Liberty! The word sounds as melodious
music in the ears of an oppressed people. Lib-
erty! eagerly cried the Israelitish slaves in 
Egypt; and a Moses came forth to deliver them. 
Liberty! cried the Jewish slaves in Babylon, 
and a Nehemiah arose to lead them back to 
their country. Liberty! exclaimed the op-
pressed Jews, and the tyrant Herod was de-
throned. Liberty! pleaded the soul-bound
Catholics of Germany, and a Luther boldly
defied the popish power and broke the bonds 
of superstition. Liberty! the over-taxed and 
down-trodden Protestants of England, a Crom-
well arose and the tyrant king was beheaded 
	Liberty! glorious liberty! for thee rivers of  
blood have flowed and millions of lives have
been sacrificed at thy shrine. 
	One hundred and ten years ago to-day a na
tion was born and the Goddess of Liberty was 
enthroned. The banner of Freedom was un-
furled in response to the appeal of patriotic
men whose hearts ached at the sufferings of 
the people under the galling yoke of despotism. 
	Patrick Henry echoed the sentiments of the
colonists when he exlaimed, "Give me liberty
or give me death!"
	The memorable document was signed. 
	The aged veteran in the steeple bared his
arm and caused the ringing peals of the bell
to speak to an excited and enthusiastic multi-
tude the death-knell of oppression and the
grand truth that the people were free. 
	We commemorate to-day that glorious even. 
To-day from the surging Atlantie to the placid
Pacific, from the snow-capped hills of the
Canadas, to the orange groves of the Floridas, 
the eloquence of America's orators is recount-
ing the Republic's glorious achievements and
her future destiny. 
	But here in Utah, the Goddess of Liberty
bows her head with humility and shame for
alas! her fair name is sullied and the flag of 
freedom trails in the dust. Religious liberty
has been taken from her people and while the
voices of America's freemen are heard from
the penitentiaries we mourn for our Nation's 
weal and our National honor.
	Columbia! thy prestige is departing, thy sun
is slowly setting. 
	Martyred Standing, Berry and Gibbs wi-
ness to thy degradation. 
	Imprisoned Snow, Clawson and others wit-
ness to thy dishonor. 
	The departed glory of Babylon, Greece and
Rome [---] t[-] thee beacon lights of warning
and if disregarded, thou also "will be
weighed in the balances and found wanting."
	Again we exclaim, "O say, does the star-
spangled banner still wave o'er the land of the 
free and the home of the brave?"
	But the glorious Republic shall yet be res-
cued from the power of the demagogue and
Utah's true-born sons shall raise aloft freedom's 
banner and proclaim true liberty and freedom
to her people. 
	Then will the goddess of Liberty reign su-
preme.


