A YOUNG MISSIONARY'S REPLY TO A LETTER.

	"I shall undertake to reply first to that por-
tion of your letter which struck me most
forcibly; namely, regarding your becoming a
Sister of Mercy. Will you explain why it is
necessary for you to join this order to do good!
You say you believe any belief pleasing to
God if it be but sincere. Had you studied
the Bible, which is the accepted word of God
among civilized people, you never would have
intimated that sincerity of worship is all that
God desires, and no sane Bible believer dare
advance such a theory. The Bible declares
that "God is a spirit, and they, that worship 
Him must worship Him in spirit, that is, in
sincerity and in truth." Your good sense will
tell you that, as all professed Christian denomi-
nations differ in their views regarding the wor-
ship of God, they must all be wrong in some
particular (all save one at any rate), and in
being wrong they do not meet the Bible de-
mand for worship—to worship God in truth;
and if the Bible is true, it is fully as essential
to worship in truth as in sincerity. Admitting,
however, for argument sake, that you are right,
and that earnestness of purpose is all that is
necessary. why then is it essential for
you to join a Catholic institution in order
to serve God in the way you mention? Cannot
you be sincere without becoming a Catholic?
Cannot you be merciful without taking the
vows of a Sister of Mercy. Cannot you have
a fixed purpose without thus binding yourself
for life? No Catholic will ever tell you that to
be sincere is all that is essential to well-doing
in the sight of God. They understand clearly,
however far we may think them astray in
other respects, that sincerity, to be effective,
must be associated with truth. Should you
put your idea into execution, admitting that
all else were congenial and satisfactory, to my

[Column 2]
mind would only be limiting your power to do
good, for your work, as a Sister of Mercy in 
the Catholic Church, would be almost, if not
entirely, confined to those of the Catholic
faith, and you declare you have no choice in
regard to forms of worship. You may enter-
tain the idea that the vow could be kept the
easier by associating yourself with this order.
It may be true, but I see no good reason why
it should be so. The vow is made to God, if
made at all. It is between Him and the maker,
and not between the Catholic Church and the
one who offers it; and it is God who sustains
those that seek to serve Him, not those of a
given faith or of our own way of thinking.
My earnest, my most earnest advice is that you
will take no step which (if you should change
 your mind later) may deprive you of your
freedom of action, or give you cause for regret
in after years. I can tell you, there are far
greater and more important commandments
than that of perpetual maidenhood, or being
merciful in a given line. Those who join this
society never know the glory of womanhood,
and they place themselves in a position which
prevents them from fulfilling the first and 
greatest commandment. Not every woman
can be a Florence Nightingale, nor a Grace
Darling; but the world is full of golden oppor-
tunities for the exercise of genuine Christian
and true womanly virtues, and as a rule women
do not need to leave their homes to find abun-
dant opportunities for the exercise of all the
virtues with which they are blessed. I have
no word to speak against the women who nobly
sacrifice their lives in the desire to assuage the
miseries of their fellow creatures, but I cannot
avoid the belief that they have made a mistake
as to the best manner of accomplishing this
result, when they join such orders; and the ex-
ception is rare where they could not have done
better had they left themselves free. It is said
of John Howard, that he probably assuaged
more human misery than any mere man that
ever lived, and yet he belonged to no organiza-
tion that I have heard of. A broad humanity
and a boundless sympathy for the suffering and
misery of his fellows, led him to devote a life
—and a noble life it was—to the mitigation of
prison horros and to alleviating suffering
caused by the dreadful ravages of pestilential
diseases. He was sustained by an unfaltering
trust in God, and it is not known that it took
any special vows or oaths on his part to make 
him the most successful worker among his fel-
lows in recent times. I have yet to learn that 
the good accomplished by Nightingale, Darling,
and the host of women whose names are bright
and glowing spots in the histories of all times,
was due to any vows they made, save to God
alone, or to their association with others for a 
given purpose. Not by any means that organiza-
tion is not valuable and effective—but that
the good you or any other individual may do,
is the result of a personal determination, aided
by a divine power, which flows from the al-
wise and infinitely powerful Creator, and not
from any special organization.
	The sphere of woman is boundless, and it is
always where she herself may be. The soul
of a true woman is like the sweet perfume of
a flower. We do not see the odor; it is voice-
less, and yet if we but come within the circle
of its unseen power, its pervading and persua-
sive perfume gladdens the heart, and as we
drink it in, there is insensibly awakened a ris-
ing pulse of thanksgiving; and a broader, a 
truer and a deeper love for the human race is
its offspring. It is exactly so with the invisible
influence of a good and a pure woman, and
she leaves an elevating and ennobling impres-
sion upon all who come within the radius of
her subtle power. This is the perfume of her
soul. But this takes time. It is not the 
flower of a moment—not the product of a 
good, but fleeting resolve - it is a plant of slow
growth. This power is the result of patient

[Column 3]
and untiring cultivation—and this cultivation
always begins at home. It is idle for you to
talk of sacrificing a young, lovely, and what
might be a life full of grace and of noble ex-
ample, when you are unable to deny yourself
the trifling follies which are so common to
those of your years. The idea is preposterous.
There are still deeper reasons why you should
abandon the idea, if you really entertain it,
but as these are purely of a religious nature,
and you will not care to go into such a sub-
ject. I need not refer to them.
	There is, however, a very serious subject in
your letter to which I do wish to refer—your
complaint of constant unrest. Do you not
understand that there can be for none of us
rest this side the grave, whatever may be
in store for us on the other side? Yours is a 
very common distress among young people of
both sexes, and the advice is equally applicable
to all. It is not rest that you need, it is occu-
pation. You would not feel that eternal long-
ing, that craving for an indefinite something,
which you attempt to call rest, if you only
had some good, wholesome employment. The
true woman learns early that life is not given
for rest, nor for the gratification of personal
desires. Its purpose is infinitely nobler and
grander—it is to do something for the good of
others, that we may thereby be blest ourselves.
A wise woman also understands that happiness
comes from within and not from without. And
there can be no happiness where there is no
consciousness that we have been the means of
blessing others. Her own heart is a woman's 
well-spring of joy, and when that heart teaches
her she has done her duty well, then, and
only then, is she truly happy. The conscious-
ness of duty, well performed, is a spring of
perennial freshness, and its store of the waters
of joy increases with the growing hours. If
you do just as you should do at home; if you
make those about you happier than they were,
have you not done something worth accom-
plishing? And it is not so hard a task when
we look at it fairly. Would you not be hap-
per for it? How can we expect to have the 
great patience with strangers which mercy de-
mands when we have neither the heart nor the
patience to strive to make our acquaintances,
and those who should be still dearer, happy?
How can we expect rest, or peace, or satisfac-
tion for the longings of the heart, when there
is an ever present consciousness—vague though
it may be—that golden opportunities are flying
past untouched, that the duty of the hour is
not even attempted? Charity and mercy truly
should begin at home. Were all women merci-
ful and charitable at home and among their
friends—working in quiet, undemonstrative
ways, yet with unshaken purpose—I am in-
clined to believe there would be little need for
such organizations as Sisters of Mercy or of
Charity. Cannot you find plenty to do among
those you know? We crave too much for the
applause of mankind, and not enough for the
approbation of a pure and earnest heart. We
are not satisfied with the quiet, the tender, the
modest wreath which adorns the brow of the
patient and cheerful worker at home; but if we
could taste the rapture such feel in being
decked with this simple emblem, if we only
knew the joy of a woman in the pure and con-
fiding smile she herself has made to light up
the face of another, we would envy her, I am
sure. It is to her what sunlight is to the bird,
water to the parched ground, what the smile
of this fair world is to one who has been bereft
of sight. If we labor for such a reward, the
rest we need is assured. This is "Heartsease"—
a flower that blooms, nowhere but in the con-
genial soil of duty, warmed by affection, and its
perfume is the only happiness we can know. It
is the joy within—the joy of an approving heart,
to which riches and power can add nothing, and
which neither poverty nor the frowns of the
haughty can diminish."	R. W. S.


