TO MY FAMILY:
	Having now washed and arranged our toilets 
according to our tastes and abilities, we wait
breakfast, our anxieties graded by the relative 
demands of our appetites.  The event watched 
for, at length, is announced, when, as though by 
magic, one hundred and fifty occupants, young
and old of various nationalities, pour from their
sleeping tenements, marshall  instantly into two 
columns converging at a point adjoining the Din-
ing Hall entrance. 
	We describe the scene as now it probably
would appear to an observer.  It will be seen that 
this Picture possesses many phases oddly made 
up of strange mixtures of things, quite opposite
in their natures, which viewed as a whole, are
singularly striking, and on account of its peculiari-
ties has attracted the attention of many persons
in quest of originalities, or such as minister to a 
lively imagination or to supply material for philo-
sophical,  moral,   or   religious   contemplation.
Therefore it is not uncommon on these occasions,
to notice crowds of enthusiasts posted upon the 
walls surrounding our Establishment, gazing down
upon our dual ranks, displaying in their varying 
countenances a curious combination of emotion
and sentiment such as astonishment, sympathy, ad-
miration, sorrow, profound respect, risibility, etc.,
etc.
	The first aspect which strikes the beholder, is 
the ineffectual struggle to assume a correct, mili-
tary attitude, the failure of which unfortunately 
shows that  the  manoeuvre has resulted in 
the   formation   of   an   awkward  squad;
doubtless  awakening  feelings  of  the  ludic-
rous.  Many,  far   the   greater  number of 
these files are noticed as possessing intelligent
and attractive countenances, indicating a high
state of intellectual, moral and religious culture,
impressing the observer with feelings of interest, 
and sentiments of profound respect. Another 
curious feature in this Exhibit, appears in the
grotesque colors aud arrangement of our costumes,
consisting of two broad rings artistically arranged 
so they run horizontally around pants vests, and 
sacque coat, at equal distances from one another


The one ring, a coal glossy black the other a 
pure snowy white following each other alternate-
ly as before described.
     When the eye of a visitor catches this grotesque
point in the scene, and we notice the effects, hav-
ing long cultivated the feeling of forgiveness, we
pardon his ill breeding, and wretched lack of
ettiquette, when discovering him in convulsions
of laughter.
     Another distinguished feature (this I have a 
a pride in mentioning) is, the peculiar air of dig-
nity, stately, noble bearing, and majestic mien of
the greater portion of this body of men, apparent-
ly born to lead and control.
     Well, having said so much, we are now pre-
pared to march our serpentine columns, not to the
gory field of conflict to cut the enemy to pieces,
but into a Dining Hall to attack and consume the
refreshments gratiutously furnished.
     The tables are primitive in make, and seem-
ingly very antique, and benches for seats may be
described in the same words.  Tin plates, tin-
cups, and spoons constitute the furniture of the
tables, apparently of ancient manufacture as
though they might have been employed, perhaps,
in the service of the Antideluvians.  Knives and
forks do not appear in this quarter, except in a 
few solitary instances where they are found com-
bined in the reduced form of pocket knives.
     Coffee, meat, potatoes and bread, all in gener-
ous quantities, grace the tables at our morning
refreshments.  At noonday, meat and bread, and
a light soup occasionally.  Supper is made up of
tea and bread.
     Strange though it may appear, yet facts show
that many of our Gentlemen postively fatten, and
some even achieve corpulency on this simple and
primitive diet.  Of course, to be successful in
such attainments of our physical condition and
generous proportions, as a rule, one must possess
a healthy constitution with a naturally aggressive
appetite, combined with a clear conscience.
     Speaking of myself as I aspire but to the main-
tenance of the latter quality, therefore when I
emerge hence, my present figure, I fancy, will not
have assumed those physical distinctions-
   Every Sabbath religious services are held in
the dining hall, by Clergymen of various sects in
the city, each in their turn.  We have a magnifi-
cent Choir made up of Convicts who assist at these
services, except at the "Mormon" meetings which
are served by invited singers.  The Chorister is
a "Mormon" convicted of cohabitation, the or-
ganist, a non-"Mormon" for some crime or misde-
meanor; others for various crimes.  Notwithstand-
ing this seemingly drawback of respectability, its 
a splendid choir, discoursing, spirited and charm-
ing music, all too, in an artistical style almost
above criticism.
     It is curious though, and highly amusing, to see
this prison Choir, their heads and faces clean 
shaven, their grotesque costumes, attired as per-
formers at a Circus, or actors in a comic scene,
earnestly engaged as important factors in these
solemn and Divine ceremonies.
     At first thought, on taking in this scene, one is
liable to be led to the ridiculous belief that the
Stage and Pulpit, at last having harmonized their
differences, have met and embraced, each in its
own way and style, the one, in its habiliments of
mournfulness and deepest feelings of piety and
solemnity, the other in its fanciful, burlesque cos-
tume, and frolicsome and frisky mood.  The mis-
take however is a bad one, and easily corrected
by observing the appearance, and character of the
audience, one third of which are noticed as "Mor-
mons" convicted of living with their wives, the
balance serving sentence for various crimes and
misdemeanors all wearing the garb of convicts;
these services being designed to reform, and make
them consistent and better Christians.
