BOX ELDER STAKE.

	The 29th quarterly conference of the Relief 
Societies of Box Elder Stake convened June 
the 8th 1886, in Brigham City. After the
opening exercises  minutes of the previous
Conference were read and accepted. 
	Prest. Harriet Snow expressed her pleasure 
in meeting so many in conference,exhorted the
sisters to be prayerful and press onward in the 
cause of truth, regretted the absence of sister 
Zina D. Young. 
	Counselor O. Widerborg knew that all felt
thankful for the privilege of meeting 
together in peace. Reported favorable of the
Scandinavian sisters. Felt a determination 
to live her religion. Prayed the Lord to bless 
all with understanding and strength to per-
form their duties. Sister Perry read a very
interesting vision. Sister Keller reported 
Mantua Ward, Sister Hubbard, Willard, 
Sister Albertson, Bear River City, Sister
Anderson, Third Ward, Brigham City, Sister 
Mary E. Snow, 2nd Ward, Brigham City, Sis-
ter Watkins 4th Ward Brigham City Sister
Perry Three Mile Creek. 
	Afternoon session: After singing and prayer, 
Counselor Susannah P. Booth addressed the
assembly: referred to the vision that had been
read and how strengthening such things were,
realized the great responsibilities resting upon
the Relief Society, we should be charitable
and assist the poor. Spoke of the duties of the
teachers. 
	Prest. Elmina S. Taylor thought the mem-
bers present, indicated that we were desirous
to do right.  Said we are all aiming at one
thing, "celestial glory;" we have no hopes in
any one else but God our Heavenly Father. 
There is yet much for us to endure before the
end comes, and all will be tried as keenly as
they can endure. Spoke of the beauty and
usefulness of these organizations, it draws us
together closer, we learn to know each other, 
to love each others good qualities, it brings out
the talents the Lord has given us and it has
in many cases been a source of comfort and 
consolation to sisters who have been down-cast
and afflicted. We should guard our tongues, 
guard ourselves in our daily lives. We should 
be honest, upright and pray continually for 
strength to be faithful. We should strive to
do some good deed every day, prayed the
choicest blessings of God on all present, that
all might prove faithful. 
	Supt. of the Y. L. M. I. A., Minnie J. Snow,
spoke on the responsibilities of mothers with
regard to the education of their daughters. 
	Sister Harding, Sister Wixom, Sister Owens
each made excellent remarks touching upon
various subjects and urging the sisters to keep
the commandments of God. 
	Prest. Harriet Snow said: we are in a school, 
we want to have wisdom to do right under all
circumstances. Gave excellent instructions
to the Presidents Counselors and teachers of
both the Relief Society and Young Ladies
Association. Said we want to cultivate a
spirit of discernment. 
	Conference adjourned for three months with
singing and benediction.
	E. D. M.


