[Vol27 | January 1940 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Superstition or Reason— Which Shall I Follow?]

Social Service
Lesson 7
Superstition or Reason— Which Shall I Follow?

I. CHANCE AND IGNORANCE FAVOR SUPERSTITIONS. If our knowledge of the physical world and the world of people were complete, there would be little room for superstition. If we had a complete knowledge of how to predict the weather, we would not follow signs; such as, "A rainbow at night, a sailor's delight; a rainbow in the morning, sailor's good warning" or "Plant potatoes in the dark of the moon". As people become more advanced in their knowledge, they rely less on mystical ways of predicting future events. Today, we look into the morning paper and predict the weather from scientific reports more accurately than by any of the ancient signs.

But even with the help of science, we are still unable to predict future events with perfect accuracy. There are elements of chance or accident which almost daily cross our path, many of which by a change in events could alter our lives materially. In a split second of carelessness, an automobile is overturned, and we are crippled for life. A chance meeting of a person may, likewise, lead to a friendship which ripens into love and marriage, and all of our personal history is thereby changed.

There is probably no such thing as pure chance in our world: We say things happen by chance when we do not know the laws that account for them. So, superstitions themselves are simply ways, although feeble ones, of trying to understand and explain what seems to happen by chance. Superstitions and primitive beliefs are different from scientific explanations in that they are based on less valid facts than science is, and in that feelings of fear and hope are more prominent in superstitions than in science.

II. HOW WISHES AND FEELINGS AFFECT OUR THOUGHTS. Modern psychologists, thanks to Freud and the psychoanalysts, have come to realize that pure reasoning or logic has relatively little to do with directing the lives of most people. There are always personal wishes, feelings of expectation or apprehension, which give color and direction to our thinking. For example, a mother can hardly see her own child's faults without discounting them. But we find fault with our enemy, and most of us can no more speak appreciatively of his virtues than we can change our characters in a day.

Recently, a psychologist (Ruch) performed an interesting experiment in which he gave a great number of illogical arguments to a large group of students and asked them to pick out which one was correct. He found that far more often than would be expected by chance alone, the students picked as correct the statement which fitted best their particular prejudices or personal feelings. We see again how feeling overshadows logic.

Likewise, in observing or reporting an incident, as an automobile accident, we see more things in our favor than in favor of the other party. When we attempt to recall the details later, our memories play the same trick on us, and we change the details and forget the ones unfavorable to us. We do this often with no intent to falsify.

III. WE NEGLECT THE CASES WHICH DO NOT PROVE OUR THEORIES. Now that we have shown that feelings and wishes, suggestibility, and lack of knowledge tend to make us superstitious, we shall proceed to mention a common mental process by which we confirm or prove our superstitions or false judgments. A lover sees only that which is lovely about his loved one. A fraction of an inch "more or less" on her nose is not noticed. When the romance wears off, he begins to see such defects.

If we believe black cats bring bad luck, we start out with an attitude of acceptance, perhaps acquired from some other believer. Then we proceed to look for cases to prove our belief. When a black cat crosses our way, we "get set" for some bad luck; truly enough in the course of any ordinary few days some reverse will usually come. If it doesn't come, we keep looking until it does, or else we forget the whole incident. Nor are we particular as to whether the proof must be a large or a small misfortune. We do not look for the good turns that may follow, because that isn't what we believe in. We also forget all of the cases where nothing noticeable happens.

As another example, consider the superstition that "Friday the 13th" brings bad luck. We stretch every point to see the bad luck and fail to see any of the good, if we believe in this superstition. Should nothing happen, we forget that and hold to our belief nevertheless. This is called "neglect of the negative instances". It operates in all of the common superstitions which play a part in the daily life of average people.

Moreover, in our conversation with others who believe as we do, we accept all of the cases they tell us which confirm our belief, and we lend a deaf ear to people who try to cast doubt. The observations of others are themselves often distorted in the telling by the "will to believe" —and the "will to make a good story". Also in our minds, as we have seen, we not only fail to see events accurately in the first place, but we remember them wishfully, that is, as we would like them to have been. Unfortunately, all faulty thinking is done without realizing how faulty it is. We do it with a good conscience, not deliberately intending to deceive ourselves or others.

Charles Darwin, who contributed much to present-day knowledge of life, worked for years gathering facts to support his theories before he would publish them. He wrote that in his studies he found that it was down every case that disproved his theory was especially important because the contrary facts were the most easily forgotten. This is the method of science: It truly doesn't care where the facts lead.

IV. SOME EXAMPLES OF FAULTY GUIDES.
1. Astrology is the reading of character by a system of interpreting the stars. How stars millions of miles away could have an influence over the lives of certain people of the millions on earth is unfathomable. But that makes no difference to believers. Astrology is not a question of logic, reason, or fact, but a question of gratifying emotional wishes and feelings about one's future. Today our newspapers carry scientific observations on the weather, news reports flashed from all quarters of the earth in an instant; along with these fruits of scientific research are the horoscopes and other fortune-telling "rackets" which appeal to the ignorance and emotions of the people. The radio has also come as a great development of science, but it, too, is exploited by fortune tellers.

But, some people object, these systems do turn out to be correct— and they do seem to. Let us remember, however, that the "wish is mother of the thought", and our judgment is warped by a strong desire that the predictions will come true.

The same may be said of reading fortunes from tea leaves, palmistry, and fortune-telling card games. Even to intelligent people, these activities may be enjoyable pastimes, because for the moment they let our hopes run free in imagination; but when we take these predictions seriously and guide our lives by them, we are like the blind who are led by the blind. We are then following the kind of superstitions which guided uncivilized people; in a day of science we should know better. (See reference No. 2.)

2. Telepathy means the transferring of thoughts from one person to another without the use of the ordinary sense organs (eyes, ears, etc.). There have been flurries of enthusiasm for telepathy even in scientific circles for many years, but a careful study of the evidence fails to convince us that telepathy is a fact. Wishful thinking, neglect of negative instances, and failure to observe rigid conditions for observing and recording results will account for most of the claims of the advocates of telepathy.

3. Phrenology is the doctrine that claims to judge character by the shape of the head, and physiognomy claims to judge character by the appearance of the face.