[Vol27 | January 1940 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Woman As An Interpreter Jacob]
Mine eyes can see, faith has restored my sight— I know thee now, dear Love, for thou art God! WB Woman as an Interpreter of the Faith | By Maude B. Jacob "They serve God well who serve His children." WOMAN'S service to humanity lies in her place in the continuance and care of life.
Without such care, human life and everything built around it would perish from the earth. As generations have passed and with them the conflicts that promoted or retarded the progress of civilization, the influence of woman has been found at the center of things.
Because of the significant nature of the influence of woman, its spiritual basis, there has been kept alive through the ages the enduring belief that it is good to live and to love, to strive and to serve.
Human life is the most precious possession possible to any individual. The sacredness of individual life lies not alone in its physical entity but in the fact that as a spiritual entity man is offspring of God, capable of attaining eternal happiness.
Whatever encourages a disregard of the value of the individual, impels mankind to dominate others by physical force, incites hostility, engenders strife, cultivates enmity, or curbs intellectual freedom, increases the destructive tensions influencing individual progress, On the other hand, whatever directs and assists the development of the individual in the way of its highest destiny is a constructive influence upon the life of the individual and upon human society.
Jesus brought this understanding of the sacredness of the individual to the world. In His direct teachings, His actions and His parables, always the relationships of life were a deep concern. To let man know his relationship to God, to his fellows, to life itself, that all of life might be brought nearer to the "one far-off divine event to which the whole creation moves" was the mission of Jesus. A passing glimpse at the history of Christianity brings to us an understanding of how slowly the Christian Church learned the true significance of the teachings of Jesus. The intellectual structure of monasticism grew out of the objective of giving the sacred scriptures to mankind. In seclusion and often in affluence, Biblical scholars spent their lives in copying, explaining, and publishing the scriptures and sacred literature.
When the wealthy young Francis of Assisi turned from his evil ways, he sought, as did many others, refuge in the church.
Following the admonition of Jesus to the rich ruler, Francis, too, sold his goods and gave his wealth to the poor. He saw Jesus teaching the multitude on the hillsides of Galilee or with the humble fishermen in their boats. He saw the concern of the Master for the poor, the sick, and the wrongdoers.
Going to Rome, he sought the permission of the Pope to conduct a mission as did Jesus. The permission was granted with reluctance, as it might cast 28 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE some reflection upon the monasterial life of the times with its intellectualism and its ceremonials.
Returning to Assisi, Francis gave his life to the service of the peasants of the countryside, teaching them of God's love and the laws of life. The service of Father Damien to the lepers of Molokai is one aftermath of the growth of the spirit of Francis of Assisi in Christendom. For years, this valiant Christian missionary strove to direct the hopeless sufferers of the leper colony, the drunken and licentious mode of living into which they had sunk to drown their sorrows. The results were disheartening.
Then came the _ day when stricken with the dread disease Father Damien stood before the lepers calling them "his brothers".
From then on, the colony grew in faith and in righteous living. Thus, the secret of service lies revealed to us; service that is not reform, not "housecleaning" in its nature or spirit. It is the service that accepts sincerely the responsibility for the welfare of others; it is service given with kindness and due respect for the individual.
Such service is the product of altruism, altruism that is "a genuine regard for the welfare of one's fellows, accompanied by a sincere desire to render them constructive and beneficent service without thought of or desire for special benefits or personal gain''. It is the spirit that was behind the gift of the widow's mite. It is the spirit that has directed women through the ages in the care of life. AS generations have passed, woman has been found at the center of human affairs.
During the period that has been called "the dawn of history", side by side with her mate woman labored to provide food, shelter, and security for her offspring. It is over twenty-three centuries ago that the wife of the Greek philosopher, Pythagorus, encouraged the women of her time to accept the truth that they were always near the heart of things even if they were barred the Forum and the Temple.
Medieval civilization, molded in part by Christianity and in part by Chivalry, developed around woman. She often joined in wars, owned and managed estates and worked in the crafts that built up the trade guilds, as she sought to make life more secure and more beautiful. For her actions and convictions we find her punished as witch and as heretic. In her quest for knowledge with the growing intellectualism of the modern age, it mattered little to her to be the subject of the jests of the male scholars of the day or that she was barred from the halls of learning. One remembers, too, that the great scholar Abelard sought the intellectual companionship of Heloise; that Queen Isabella of Spain sponsored Columbus when kings and statesmen denied his appeal; that Mary Wollstonecraft joined Thomas Paine in the vindication of the rights of man. In this modern age, the influence of woman has extended from the home to society. In the complexity of our life today, we have become so dependent upon the life of others that no longer is a woman's responsibility for the care of life bounded by the walls of her own home. Therefore, no conception of a woman's influence in the world of today is complete unless her public as well as her home influence is considered. Her quickest response has always been to human needs, because of her intuitive appreciation of the sacredness of the individual. The area of woman's service is limited only by human need.
Through her influence, the needs of dependent, defective and delinquent humanity are receiving greater and more effective service than ever before. By such woman-motivated movements as Anti-Slavery, Temperance, Woman's Suffrage and Child Labor Prevention, society has been refined.
Through the individual leadership of such heroines of service as Jane Addams, Florence Nightingale, Mary Lyon, Dorothea Lynde Dix, Elizabeth Fry, Anna Howard Shaw, Clara Barton, Susan B. Anthony, Frances Willard and others, many phases of human need have been met.
Through organization in clubs, churches, settlements, welfare stations, playground and recreational associations, civic and social centers, legislative halls and schools, women have held in their control the care of life through refining the activities of governments, institutions, organizations and individuals. In recognition of her services in the care of life, it is agreed "that it has become the spiritual function of woman to point the way to a higher civilization". NEVER has the general welfare of humanity been a matter of such grave concern as it is today.
Society is in need of refining and reorganization in light of the general acceptance of the Christian ideal of the worth of the individual. The general inability of society to meet the impacts of the forces that are molding contemporary life has addRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 29 ed to the tragedy.
Because of the experience of the immediate past, the care of the dependent, aged and unemployed is receiving attention. But the greatest problem confronting society, the welfare of its youth, is the gravest of all our problems. Maxine Davis in her thought-provoking book, "The Lost Generation", written after interviewing thousands of young people in all parts of our country, has many significant comments pointing out to women this great challenge: "The youth of the nation are the trustees of posterity. "Youth today brings to its solemn charge the same high hopes, the same zest for work, the same will to achieve, the joyous love of life and romance which has characterized it since the beginning of time. "Our boys and girls have grown up in the belief that America is the Land of Promise.
They grew up with the assurance that education and hard work were the Open Sesame to respectable joys secured by reliability and perseverance, to homes of their own and to honored places in the eyes of their fellow men. -, "In the past few years many of them have found that this is not true.
About three millions of our young people who are out of school today have no work, through no fault of their own.... "Bleakly our youth has been marking time while the clock ticks away its bright years, the good years of plowing and sowing and striving.... "More:—They have seen us abolish heaven and outlaw hell.
They have watched us set up money as a god, and then watched the god topple.
They have seen us distribute 30 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fame as generously to Al Capone and Huey Long and Mae West as to Woodrow Wilson, Einstein and Jane Addams. "They have seen poverty and starvation overtake men and women who have toiled faithfully all their lives.... "What has all this done to them? "Some of the things:—Life is empty....
Life is boring..... The movies are becoming as essential to today's youth as cocaine to an addict....
They identify themselves with Hollywood stars, living vicariously....
When they can't go to the movies they listen to the radio....
Thus the movies and radio are insidious drugs coloring the life of youth. "In the minds of many, the drinking and smoking of modern youth is an obvious escape.... "Another tragedy to your youth is their inability to marry, a cause of untold misery.... Again:—What of the habits of mind and attitudes of this lost generation straying aimlessly toward middle age?" As women of today, the challenge comes to us, because ours is the responsibility, inseparable from the continuance of life, the care of life. As Latter-day Saint women, from the spiritual experiences of our people we may find inspiration and guidance for our task if we but search sincerely and pray fully. THE story of the early settlement of Kirtland is a record of how God's leaders were directed by revelation to care for the human welfare of their people. In one of the revelations we find the counsel: "You must remember in all things the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted." In another: "Let every man deal honestly and be alike among his people, and receive alike, that ye may be one, even as I have commanded you." The Saints at Kirtland lacked many of the comforts of life, but the blessings they had in living together as God directed were very great. To the Saints, God's Prophet was always "Brother Joseph"—they knew how much he loved them.
Many of the choicest memories of those who knew the Prophet at Kirtland were of his kindness and helpfulness. Further, during the spring of 1847, Elder Lorenzo Snow was called to take care of the exiled Saints camped at Mt. Pisgah, east of Winter Quarters.
Many of the families were almost destitute. Then, too, there was a great deal of sickness in the camp.
Many died and were buried without ceremony or burial clothes. To arouse the Saints, poor, sorrowing and discouraged, was the first task of the new leader. First, Lorenzo Snow encouraged some of the men to go to near-by settlements to get work, others he started repairing and building wagons, and others he set to work making chairs, 'barrels, churns, etc., things that could be sold.
Then he sent two elders to Ohio, where the Saints still had many friends, to collect money to help the Saints.
They brought back six-hundred dollars.
This provided many necessities as well as food and clothing for the days to come. But the greatest joy of all was that the Saints at Mt.
Pisgah were able to send a wagonload of provisions to President Young and his camp at Winter Quarters as a New Year's gift. Thus, sympathy, vision, work and play changed a discouraged camp into a courageous, resourceful people ready for the trek West.
From two of the most valuable records of the Church, "The Life Story of Brigham Young" and "William Clayton's Journal", we note how closely the great leader, Brigham Young, kept in touch with the everyday life of the Saints during the trek West and the early days of the settlement of Utah: "May 22, Bluff Runs. President Young called the camp together and spoke to them, 'For the past week the - whole camp has been card playing... Then, too, there have been disputes over nonsensical things.
Swearing and profane language is being used in camp. You are men going to find a location for the Saints of God. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 31
Then some of you will go out to preach the Gospel.' " Thus was guided the lives of the Builders of Zion. It is through accumulated good that the everlasting life of man is builded. By seeing the qualities of things, their claims and their places, the women of the Church may know their task. By diffusing the spirit of the Gospel in all the contacts of life they may become the purifying, humanizing and spiritualizing forces of the society in which the youth of Zion is being nurtured for their great heritage as God's children.
This in itself is the highest of all womanly functions, the care of life, and is nobler than anything which art, philosophy, genius, or wealth may produce. WB ANOTHER YEAR By Mildred B. Hall God gave me twelve full months of time, Another year to use as mine; But I was blind and could not see The value of this legacy.
Through spring's awak'ning I lay mute, And summer time bore me no fruit, The pageant passed that was the fall, And suddenly I saw it all, My year had died, God called it home; I hold its ashes tenderly, alone. If God will grant this gift once more, Another year to me restore, I pledge my heart and hand to be Of service to humanity. Not by some deed of great display, Just in a quiet, humble way; I'll give a smile, or wipe a tear, To heal a hurt or calm a fear. I shall not ask of life for fame, If God will grant Another Year, again. Custer's First Stand By Gertrude LeWarne Parker "YOU'D better come, in case } we need you," the Widow Bentley said over the phone, and John Custer, with a shake in his voice, answered, "I'll be right home.
Take good care of Margaret." But the receiver on the other end clicked before he finished speaking. As he raced homeward, his thoughts went back to the time two years before when he and Margaret Bentley, finding themselves very much in love, had pleaded with the Widow Bentley for her consent to a little home of their own.
Weeks before this, they had wandered through every furniture store in town, had planned living-rooms of bright chintzes and soft gray rugs, had ordered dishes, all white with embossed rose design, and gay green and orange pottery for the kitchen. Then, as he had listened to the Widow's side of the story — with Margaret clinging to him, smiling through her tears—he had realized how lonely her house would be without Margaret. "But," he had reasoned, "other daughters have married, other mothers have been left alone."
Slowing down for a traffic light he remembered, too, that afternoon when he and Margaret had sat on the piano bench, their arms around each other, facing Mother Bentley. The Widow, stern and unbending, had said as a parting stab, "Margaret's an ungrateful daughter to even want to leave me alone so soon after poor Pa's gone." He thought again of Margaret's whispered sob, "Couldn't we, John, stay just a little while?" He recalled his half-hearted surrender and promise that they would move in with her mother and try that arrangement for a while; now, today, he realized more than ever what a mistake it had been. As the car slid to a stop at the back gate, he pushed his hat back on his bristling red hair topping a pair of bright blue eyes that twinkled in fun at less serious times than this. He got out and reached for the box of yellow roses in the back seat—was glad he had thought of them. It hadn't delayed him more than a minute or two. She loved them so. He hurried up the path to the back door, forgetful of the garden which lately had called forth a daily snort of disapproval—a maze of prim flower beds and narrow winding paths all edged with jagged malicious-looking rocks; not one patch of grass where a boy and a dog might roll and tumble. Instead, the whole thing fairly screamed, "No children or dogs allowed." For two years John had been making what he called "a back-door entrance". The front part of the house was kept sacred to the memory of "poor old Bentley" as he was generally known around town. He had been so pitifully pleased that, "You've never caught me tracking up your front porch, Mother."
John did better than that—he didn't track the back porch. He wore rubbers according to the calendar, even on days like today. He figured it saved a lot of stupid argument. In spite of his evident haste, he remembered them now and placed them side by side on the top step and wiped his shoes on the mat. He listened anxiously before opening the door.
