[Vol27 | January 1940 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Guide | Title: Kindness]

Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No. 7
Kindness

"And be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you."—Eph. 4:32.

THE New Testament is replete with examples of the kindness of Jesus in dealing with people. His heart was full of compassion for the people of Jerusalem. He wept for them, although they persecuted Him. In His kindness He said, "Suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them not." He released the woman who was about to be stoned and caused her accusers to flee. He dealt gently with the woman of Samaria, with the sick, the blind, the leper, the ignorant, and with the learned and even the unthankful and evildoers.

Life is much more joyful and satisfying to one who is compassionate, forbearing, tender, lenient, gentle, mild, forgiving and appreciative. Kindness is an essential qualification in successful parentage.

Kindness is shown by one's consideration for another in times of sickness or distress or whenever help is needed. In childhood we learned that kindness is "to do or say the kindest things in the kindest way," and that

"Little deeds of kindness,
Little words of love
Make this earth an Eden
Like the heaven above."

A beautiful woman eighty-three years old was asked why it was that one never noticed her wrinkles but always saw her smile. "If that is true," she said, "it must be because I have tried to do something kind each day."

What about the letter we were to write, the loving word to be said, the visit to be made, the call on the telephone, the little delicacies to be shared, ere the sun goes down? Pity is a form of kindliness so beautifully explained by the poet Whittier:

"O Brother man! fold to thy heart thy brother;
When pity dwells, the peace of God is there,
To worship rightly is to love each other,
Each smile a hymn, each kindly deed a prayer.
Follow with reverent steps the great example,
Of Him whose holy work was 'doing good'.
So shall the wide earth seem our father's temple
Each loving life a psalm of gratitude."

Discussion
1. Relate some incident of kindness shown you within the last week.
2. Quote one of our songs on kindness.
3. How did the ten lepers repay the kindness of Jesus?—Luke 17:11-19.