[Vol27 | January 1940 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Social Follow]
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE,  JANUARY  -  9 
Service  Convention  held  in  San 
Francisco  and  also  a  Social  Service 
Institute  at  Berkeley.  Her  interest  in 
social  welfare  has  led  her  to  take  spe- 
cial educational  courses  along  social 
service  lines.  Sister  Lyman  says  of 
her  work,  "Marcia  is  a  natural-bom 
executive,  with  a  great  capacity  for 
work.  She  has  traveled  all  over  the 
Church  in  the  interest  of  Relief  So- 
ciety and  never  looks  for  the  easiest 
assignments.  If  you  give  her  an  as- 
signment you  can  dismiss  it  from 
your  mind,  knowing  it  will  be  well 
taken  care  of.  She  is  systematic,  a 
good  planner,  paying  careful  atten- 
tion to  detail,  and  she  does  her  work 
without  fuss  or  trouble.  So  much  of 
our  work  is  done  in  committees,  and 
Marcia  is  a  fine  committee  woman." 
TN  order  to  get  a  clear  conception 
of  any  individual,  one  must  know 
something  of  his  background.  To  me 
it  is  always  fascinating  to  open  the 
book  of  the  past  and  find  out  about 
ancestors  and  trace  family  traits. 
Marcia  Howells  came,  on  both  her 
father's  and  mother's  side,  from  a 
long  line  of  sturdy  pioneers,  but  it 
took  a  great  amount  of  questioning 
to  draw  from  her  the  fact  that  on 
both  sides  of  her  family  her  forbears 
go  back  to  Revolutionary  times,  and 
far  beyond.  The  reasons  she  gave  for 
being  hesitant  was  that  she  believes 
what  Plutarch  said:  "It  is  indeed 
a  grand  thing  to  be  well  descended, 
but  the  glory  of  it  belongs  to  our 
ancestors."  In  other  words,  don't  live 
on  the  achievements  of  some  ances- 
tor but  make  a  record  of  your  own. 
Daniel  Knowlton,  Marcia's  great- 
great-grandfather,  was  an  outstand- 
ing patriot  of  the  American  Revolu- 
tion. When  his  country  called,  he 
left  his  plow  in  the  furrow  as  "Cin- 
cinnatus  of  old"  and  willingly  re- 
sponded to  duty.  Daniel  Knowlton 
once  saved  the  life  of  Israel  Putnam, 
one  of  the  commanding  officers,  at 
the  battie  of  Bunker  Hill.  From  an 
interesting  old  record,  "The  Knowl- 
ton Ancestry,"  I  quote:  "The  night 
before  the  Putnam  men  marched  to 
the  relief  of  Boston,  'Old  Put,'  as  he 
was  called,  was  noticed  to  leave  his 
house  and  silently  walk  over  to  a 
field  adjacent,  and  there  look  to- 
wards Ashford  (where  Daniel 
Knowlton  lived)  for  some  little  time 
shading  his  eyes  with  his  hand.  Be- 
ing followed  by  a  neighbor  and  ask- 
ed for  whom  he  was  looking,  the  old 
General  ejaculated,  'Gad,  Zounds! 
Had  I  only  Daniel  Knowlton  to  take 
with  me!  He  alone  is  worth  half  a 
company,  such  is  his  courage  and 
lack  of  fear.  I  could  order  him  into 
the  mouth  of  a  loaded  cannon,  and 
he  would  go.' "  Such  a  man  you 
might  imagine  to  be  stern  and  for- 
bidding, but  such  is  not  the  case. 
"One  day,"  says  the  record,  "as 
Daniel  was  riding  past  a  church  at 
Ashford,  he  noticed  a  large  crowd 
congregated  about  a  whipping  post, 
planted  in  the  vicinity,  according  to 
the  harsh  custom  of  the  day.  Upon 
inquiry,  he  learned  that  a  culprit  was 
to  be  flogged  for  non-attendance  at 
church  and  non-payment  of  dues. 
When  the  sentence  was  read  prepar- 
atory to  laying  on  the  stripes,  ob- 
serving that  the  usual  clause  was 
omitted  requiring  the  stripes  to  be 
applied  to  the  bare  back,  he  jumped 
from  his  horse  and  threw  his  own 
coat  over  the  shoulders  of  the  cul- 
prit, thus  mitigating  the  force  of  the 
blows."  "Bold,  stern  and  intrepid  as 
a  lion  in  the  battlefield,  he  was  re- 
tiring, non-assertive  in  private  life, 
and  inclined  to  belittle  his  achieve-

10  -  JANUARY,  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
ments.  Nothing  was  more  distasteful 
to  his  mind  than  display  or  osten- 
tation." 
Certainly,  Marcia  possesses  many 
of  the  sterling  character  traits  of  her 
ancestor.  Courage,  loyalty,  a  spirit  of 
daring,  coupled  with  an  innate  mod- 
esty, humility  and  a  willingness  to 
serve  when  duty  calls  are  pronounced 
characteristics. 
If  I  were  asked  to  put  into  words 
that  peculiar  something  which  dis- 
tinguishes Marcia  from  other  indi- 
viduals, I  would  say  it  is  the  quality 
of  her  generosity.  She  gives  herself. 
She  is  generous  with  her  time,  doing 
more  than  her  share  when  called 
upon.  She  is  generous  in  her 
thoughts  of  others.  Their  good  for- 
tune evokes  happiness  within  her; 
their  accomplishments  calls  forth 
her  commendation.  She  is  tolerant 
of  their  failings.  Modest  about  her 
own  talents,  she  recognizes  and  ad- 
mires the  talents  of  others.  If  work- 
ing in  a  successful  group,  she  is  in- 
clined to  give  the  credit  to  the  other 
persons,  a  true  form  of  unselfishness. 
Though  but  ten  years  old  when 
her  father,  Benjamin  Franklin 
Knowlton,  died,  the  example  of  true 
hospitality  set  in  his  home  has  stayed 
with  Marcia,  making  her  the  chann- 
ing  hostess  she  is  today.  As  a  little 
girl,  she  recalls  there  were  no  auto 
camps  or  even  hotels  in  the  little 
town  of  Famiington  where  she  grew 
up,  but  the  shelter  of  their  home  and 
the  bounties  of  their  table  were  gen- 
erously and  freely  extended  to  even 
the  casual  acquaintance. 
The  home  over  which  Marcia  and 
her  husband,  Dr.  Thomas  J.  How- 
ells,  Salt  Lake  City  Health  Commis- 
sioner, preside  is  an  inviting  one; 
hospitality,  refinement,  peace  and 
harmony  reign  therein.  Dr.  Howells 
has  not  only  ably  served  his  com- 
munity but  his  Church  as  well.  He 
fulfilled  a  mission  to  Great  Britain 
and  upon  his  return  was  appointed 
a  member  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake 
Sunday  School  Superintendency. 
Marcia's  spiritual  nature  has  found 
expression  in  extensive  temple  work. 
Genealogy  and  temple  work  were  ac- 
tivities in  which  both  her  father  and 
her  mother,  Minerva  Richards, 
found  great  satisfaction.  Her  mother 
said  shortly  before  her  death:  "The 
crowning  joy  of  my  life  was  the  privi- 
lege of  serving  as  an  ordinance  work- 
er in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple."  For 
many  years  Sister  Minerva  Knowlton 
was  a  devoted  and  capable  Relief 
Society  leader,  being  chosen  secre- 
tary-treasurer of  the  first  Davis  Stake 
Relief  Society.  Later,  she  became 
ward  Relief  Society  president.  This 
position  was  followed  by  that  of 
stake  president.  Of  her  mother,  Mar- 
cia could  well  say,  as  President  Grant 
did  of  his  widowed  mother:  "It  is  a 
glorious  thing  to  be,  like  Nephi  of 
old,  'born  of  goodly  parents.'  It  is 
of  greater  value  than  wealth  or  pre- 
cious stones.  My  mother  was  both 
father  and  mother  to  me.  Her  tender 
love  bound  me  to  her  with  cords  of 
steel,  and  if  I  succeed  in  the  battle 
of  life,  I  will  owe  it  all  to  her." 
In  our  high  school  days,  I  formed 
a  high  opinion  of  the  character  of 
Marcia,  and  during  all  the  years  of 
our  friendship  she  has  not  disap- 
pointed me— no,  not  once.