[Vol27 | January 1940 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Literature | Title: The Bent Twig]

Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
Lesson 7
"The Bent Twig"

IT is very appropriate that Relief Society should choose as the concluding novel for this year's study a work from the pen of one of America's ablest and best beloved women; a story with a very definite purpose, a vital message, vivid and intense from start to finish. In his book The Women Who Make Our Novels, Grant Overton says: "Mrs. Fisher is, we think, the only novelist of whose work we shall say nothing. Why? Because it 'speaks for itself'? Certainly not. Every one's work does that. No, because it does not speak sufficiently for her. You are asked here and now to think of her not as a novelist, but as a woman. For as a novelist we could say of her only the obvious fact, that she is a topnotcher judged by any and every standard.... What she does need, or rather, what her readers and all readers need, is a reminder of her role as teacher, helper, friend. She is one of those fine people whose work makes the plain word 'service' a shining and symbolic thing."

Though born in Kansas during the time her father was president of the university of that state, anyone who reads Dorothy Canfield Fisher's books knows that she is American, of New England descent. She has as firmly fixed Arlington, Vermont in our literature as has Louisa May Alcott, Concord, Massachusetts. The first of the Canfield family came to America in 1636 and a little over a century later settled on land in Vermont, which is still in the family possession. Mrs. Fisher tells some delightful stories of her liberal thinking, strong-minded ancestors, women as well as men, and of the part they played in colonial days. Her father, James Hulme Canfield, was an educator of high rank and president of two or three midwestern universities before joining the faculty of Columbia University, New York. Dorothy's education was cosmopolitan but always at rock bottom American, a liberal, tolerant American, devoid of prejudice or bigotry. Her experience in co-educational university towns profoundly influenced the young woman and afforded material for some of the most realistic chapters in her books. This is especially true of The Bent Twig. She lived in the old family home in Vermont, and in France, Italy, England and the Scandinavian countries. Her girlhood contacts and friendships ranged as widely, and her books are ordered from all over the world. Her first ambition seems to have been that of a teacher. She studied for her doctor's degree in romance languages at the Sorbonne, Paris, and at Columbia, New York. In collaboration with one of her professors at Columbia, she wrote some texts on English. In 1907, she married John R. Fisher and went to live on one of the farms at Arlington, Vermont, where her home became the center of all that concerns the welfare and development of the community. From this time, she seems to have been less actively concerned with an academic career and turned rather to the field of creative writing and social problems. Squirrel Cage was her first real novel. She has, however, always been vitally interested in the problems of education for young and old. Her Why Stop Learning? remains one of the very finest surveys of the Adult Education Movement that has ever been written, and social guidance experts regard Mrs. Fisher as one of the ablest in this field.

While in Italy, she became personally acquainted with Dr. Maria Montessori, the founder of a system of primary education which differs from the kindergarten method mainly in that it aims at the individual development rather than the collective plan of teaching. The teacher is a director rather than an instructor, and the aim is to observe and guide rather than to teach. This method endeavors to give the child an environment that will liberate the personality and tries through sense education to stimulate the intellect itself. It is claimed that while there is no formal instruction the children learn to read and write with surprising rapidity under this system. Mrs. Fisher became very much interested in this, and at Dr. Montessori's request undertook to explain the system and theories. The result was her book A Montessori Mother. This was followed by Mothers and Children, a classic in the field of child guidance; Hillsboro People, a collection of stories of her own neighbors; Understood Betsey, one of the finest and most popular books for children that literature offers.

Soon after the beginning of the World War, Mrs. Fisher went to France to join her husband who was already in the Ambulance Corps. Her war work won recognition from the Government for distinguished service. She was particularly active in efforts to help the widows and orphans and the men who had lost their sight in battles. Some of the institutions she started have been perpetuated and are now maintained by the French Government.

In 1919, completely exhausted by the strenuous labors in war-torn Europe, the family, consisting of Mr. and Mrs. Fisher, their daughter Sally and little son Richard, returned to their home in Arlington.

The Harcourt Brace News has this to say of Dorothy Canfield Fisher: "A liberal American from Vermont. She is the author of some of the best loved novels of the century.... Her career as a novelist has had few parallels both for critical and popular acclaim, and many of her powers derive from the fact that she is not specifically or consciously a 'career' woman but a successful wife, mother, now grandmother, and a plain friendly citizen, joining her fellow citizens in her own Vermont community in the steady day-by-day struggle at first hand with the knotty problems of communal living. These are the experiences she draws upon for her books. She is a real scholar, holding eight degrees from American universities, but no academic interest is as great as that humanitarian one of making education mean something to young and old. Her understanding of young people shows in every novel she has written, and she has created some of the most endearing and real children in our literature. Her understanding of old people is to be expected of a Vermonter." Mrs. Fisher holds her Ph. D. in romance languages and was the first woman to be on the Board of Education in Vermont.

"JUST as the twig is bent, the tree is inclined." All of Mrs. Fisher's work is concerned with the intimate problems of every-day life, usually with the actions and reactions on each other of men, women and children in the ordinary family relations. This is strikingly true of The Bent Twig, a story whose charm lies in the distinction given to the portrayal of familiar phases of life. The "Twig" of the title is the daughter of a mid-western university professor. She is "bent" by the standards, traditions, inheritances and ideals of plain-living, high-thinking parents who provide a healthy, wholesome, happy, natural American family life for their children. The novel is divided into four books, and the titles to the chapters are very significant. Chapter I, "Sylvia's Home," presents the brilliant, fun-loving father, the sensible, fine, intelligent mother, who, in the words of the reviewer "bent the twig in the direction which the tree of Sylvia Marshall's gallant womanhood was to grow". We also meet little sister Judith, baby brother Lawrence, and a glimpse of Aunt Victoria is presented. This beautiful picture of home life may well be taken from Mrs. Fisher's own personal experiences on her farm home in Vermont.

"The Marshall's Friends" gives a most enlightening account of the people who played a part in the environment of Sylvia's childhood. Prominent among these was "Old Reinhardt" whose real musical training influenced her all her life. If one is judged by his friends, Professor and Mrs. Marshall were unusual people, and the influences were early at work in the lives of the children.

Mrs. Fisher's fine sense of humor is in evidence in "Every One's Opinion of Every One Else". In "Brother and Sister" the two forces which played the most important part in Sylvia's development are clearly suggested.

In Chapter VII, "We Hold These Truths to be Self Evident", the account of the public school is one of the most graphic in the entire book. E. E. Hale in The Dial says: "The account of the democracy of the common schools would teach more concerning that interesting topic than many text books." The following excerpt is a good example of the author's skill in depicting one of our existing social institutions: "What she really learned was, as with her mates, another matter, for of course those devouringly active little minds did not spend six hours a day without learning something incessantly. The few rags and tatters of book information they acquired were but the merest fringes on the great garment of learning acquired by these public school children which was to wrap them about all their lives. What they learned during those eight years of sitting still and not whispering had nothing to do with the books in their desks or the lore in their teachers' brains. The great impression stamped upon the wax of their minds, which became iron in after years, was democracy, a crude, distorted, wavering image of democracy, like every image an ideal in this imperfect world, but in its essence a reflection of the ideal of their country. No European could have conceived how literally it was true that birth or wealth or social position of a child made no difference in the estimation of his mates. There were no exceptions to the custom of considering the individual on his own merits. These merits were often queerly enough imagined, a faculty for standing on his head redounding as much or more to a boy's credit as the utmost brilliance in recitation, or generosity of temperament, but at least he was valued for something he himself could do, and not for any fortuitous incidents of birth and fortune."

The story of the two little Fingal girls is one of the most tragic in the book, and it is a most dramatic presentation of one of the great problems facing our nation today. The reactions of Sylvia and Judith, the conduct of the children, the school officials and the parents, afford rare material for a discussion on child guidance, as well as placing The Bent Twig in the class of best realistic and psychological novels.

The delicate treatment of Arnold as well as of Judith and Sylvia are living portraits of real children.

In one of the reviews of Mrs. Fisher's life it is said: "Her interest in growth explains the profound seriousness with which she treats children and their problems. In some of her books she deals almost exclusively with children and their struggles forward into life." In The Home Maker she asks: "What is home making? Good housekeeping? or a capacity to understand children and their needs?" In The Bent Twig, as in other books, she shows how truly children feel the undercurrents in their homes and how intense for them are their daily problems and how significant for development in adult life.

Suggestions and Questions
1. Give a brief review of Dorothy Canfield Fisher's life.
2. What are her greatest claims for distinction?
3. Why is she particularly well qualified to write of stirring questions of the day?
4. Tell what you can of the Montessori system of child training.
5. Read Book I and point out some of the best accounts in setting and character development.