THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford - President
Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Leone G. Layton
Lillie C. Adams
Alta J. Vance
Mary G. Judd
Blanche B. Stoddard
Ethel C. Smith
Christine H. Robinson
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Louise W. Madsen
Alberta H. Christensen
Edith S. Elliott
Leone O. Jacobs
Aleine M. Young
Nellie W. Neal
Florence J. Madsen
Mary J. Wilson
Josie B. Bay

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor - Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager - Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 37 MAY 1950 No. 5

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES

A Mother's Influence by Joseph L. Wirthlin 291
The Household of Faith by Vesta P. Crawford 295
A Convert's Granddaughter Returns by Helen and Cyril Pearson 304
A Pattern For Mother by Caroline Eyring Miner 310

FICTION

The Recital by Deone R. Sutherland 299
Dark in the Chrysalis—Chapter 5 by Alice Morrey Bailey 317

GENERAL FEATURES

Sixty Years Ago 312
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 313
Editorial: Memorial Days by Belle S. Spafford 314
The One Hundredth Anniversary of the Founding of the University of Utah by Vesta P. Crawford 315
Magazine Subscriptions for 1949 by Marianne C. Sharp 322
The Magazine Honor Roll for 1949 326
Notes From the Field: Relief Society Socials, Bazaars, and Other Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 351
From Near and Far 360

FEATURES FOR THE HOME

A Letter From Mother by Clara Horne Park 320
Storing Food in a Two-Room Apartment by Esther Clark Naylor 321
Skirt Hangers in a Jiffy by Rachel K. Laurgaard 350

POETRY

Songs for David—Frontispiece by Lael W. Hill 289
Pastel of Spring by Dorothy J. Roberts 298
Meditation by Bessie G. Hale 298
Mother by Florence Berrett Dunford 298
The Childless Mother by Christie Lund Coles 303
Stay With Me Now! by Pansye H. Powell 311
Daily Bread by Miranda Snow Walton 311
In These Hills by Evelyn Wooster Viner 311
The Landmark by Evelyn Fjeldsted 316
Reflections by Rose Lee Bond 316
Without Price by C. Cameron Johns 316
My Inland Sea by Mabel Jones Gabbott 320
Swinging by Grace Sayre 350
Neighborhood by Margery S. Stewart 359

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.
Entered as second-class Matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vol. 37 MAY 1950 Si ongs for David Lael W. Hill Where are the songs that were never sung For David, when he was very young? I. He with his bonny look, his winsome ways, Was never cradled in silence. Yet—and yet— The lyrics that were for him those first earth-days, To tell of his darkling eyes, now I forget; And the dimpled arms, and the mischief in his smiles Were never told in the lilt of singing words, Were never written for him, in afterwhiles To read and remember, as chittering of small birds. All the songs that David ought to know Are gone where the small, pink dawn-clouds go. II. His voice, as he learned the sound of spoken thought, Was a trickle of music, young and eager brook; And when he faltered his first step, were there not lilf-patterings at his side? But there is no book Full of picture-words that might someday have been For him and all other Davids to enjoy. Now where are the lost songs hidden, where locked in, Since he is no longer so small a curious boy? His mother was busy about their home, And the little songs drifted away like foam. III. He ran through fields, like a puppy in his play; He found the underneath of sun: warm stones, A world of quick new creatures... Day on day Such learning filled his eyes and stretched his bones; But not one singing line was ever penned To capture his delights when he was small. Regretful, now I search my thought's frayed end. (David is eight years old, and very tall.) His little self is vanished now, Like petals blown from an apple bough. And his mother marvels, and sighs, and sings Only shadow-songs of rememberings. The Cover: "Night Blooming Cereus," Photograph by Josef Muench. RHODODENDRONS Josef Muench A Mother's Influence Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin Of the Presiding Bishopric (Address delivered at the officers meeting in the Assembly Hall on September 29, 1949, of the Annual General Relief Society Conference). RESIDENT Spafford and sisters, I deem it a high honor to participate with you in this session of your great conference. I look into your faces and what do I see? I see the finest in motherhood. You represent the best in life, for you live the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in this great Relief Society in which you enjoy membership, you render a Christlike service, taking care of those who are in distress. And you are responsible for the cultural and spiritual development of the mothers of Israel, and I know of no greater nor more important work. In thinking of you this morning, words of the ancient writer of Proverbs come to mind. He wrote: Who can find a virtuous woman for her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar. She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. She considereth a field, and buyeth it, with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard.... She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her (Proverbs 31: 10-16, 26-28). I am sure that these words are most applicable to all of you. The most important unit in the Church and in the nation is the home, and you are the homemakers. Mothers are blessed with a divine something that men do not enjoy. You disseminate a feeling of calmness, of peace, of good will and love. The divine spark in your hearts is one of the attributes which implies partnership with our Heavenly Father. It is little wonder that the Prophet Joseph declared that one of the duties of the sisters was to provoke the brethren to good works. I, and every man who has achieved in the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ or in any other important field of endeavor, has been provoked to do good, to be energetic, and to achieve his ambition by his mother or wife. ) If it were not for you mothers, in many instances, our sons who constitute the Aaronic Priesthood of the Church might not be as intensely interested as they are. And as a member of the Presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood of the Church, I plead with you to provoke your sons to good works in the Priesthood of Almighty God, for therein will be found spiritual security. I am certain that when the Lord said to the officers of this great organtzation to provoke the brethren to good works, he had in mind your Page 29) 292 husbands and your sons. There is no one who can do more with a man, whether he is young or old, than his wife and his mother. Yours is a great mission in this day when the truth is to be disseminated to all nations, kindreds, tongues, and peoples, to inculcate into the hearts of your sons the desire to go out and serve the Lord in preaching the restored gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to the world. In this matter of homemaking, the Relief Society has contributed much. I recall a little mother who lives on the fringe of the Church and who said to me: "I am far away from the body of the Church. I live out here practically alone, but," she said, "you will never know what the courses in the Relief Society mean to me. I can still study the finest things in literature and deeply appreciate them because the Relief Society has worked out a course that I can follow." It is a wonderful thing that those who reside out in the far reaches of the Church receive inspiration from the courses provided by the general board of the Relief Society. We have often thought that culture is only found in the highly and densely populated areas; but I say that culture is found out on the fringe where the courses as prescribed by your board reach women who study these courses carefully, and who manifest the good that comes from them in their lives, and who teach these fine cultural and spiritual things to their families. OU mothers, teach your children to pray. It is at your knee that they first become acquainted RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 with God. At your knee they come to know God in whose image they are created, a God with body, parts, and passions. It seems that our concept of God teaches the most simple lessons to children, something that is tangible and understandable. I recall a mother who was seriously ill. She became so ill that her life was despaired of, and out of anxiety relatives and friends crowded the house. Two children had to remain outside—a boy thirteen years of age and a girl eleven. They listened to the screams of pain, one saying: "Let us pray for mother." They could not go into the house. The only place left was the coal shed. Kneeling down among the lumps of coal, the thirteen-year-old boy and the eleven-year-old girl supplicated God that their mother might be restored. | Before the sun went down that day, that mother was relieved of the pain and she was restored to her children. The Lord answered the supplication of the children. But there was more than that to it. That mother had taught her children to pray from the time they were able to speak a word, and out of her teachings they developed a profound faith in their Heavenly Father; and the mother received a much-needed blessing, the reward for teaching prayer in the home. Relief Society leaders have much to do in the matter of instructing our mothers as to what kind of reading material should be available in the home. You have no doubt observed the various kinds of reading material that are now available, much of it having to do with sen- A MOTHER'S INFLUENCE sationalism, such as crime and sex problems, and, unfortunately, much of this trash is being read by young people and older ones, too. I have thought that it would be a fine thing if in each ward in this Church the Relief Society might conduct a survey to determine what kind of reading material is available to youth in Latter-day Saint homes. I hope such a survey would not shock us; but, on the other hand, I would not be surprised if you would find some of this worldly and obscene literature. You have a great responsibility, advising and counseling the mothers of Israel to provide the nght kind of reading material. After all, the things we read become the thoughts we think, and the thoughts we think, at some future time, are expressed in deeds of good or evil. It is wonderful to teach our children to use the right kind of words. I am thinking now of taking the Lord's name in vain and of using profanity. And may I say that profanity is becoming common among women as well as among men. When a child hears a mother use a word that does not express something of culture and refinement, the child may pick up the word and use it. GOME people who are well educated and seem to have had fine cultural training, fail in this matter of choosing the right kind of words. I recall an experience I had while traveling to the Seattle Stake several years ago of meeting a young lady who sat across from me in a Pullman car. Out of our conversation I decided that she was intelligent and cultured, that she had a good mind. 293 She informed me that she was a graduate of one of the universities of Montana. Later she went down the aisle of the car and commenced playing cards with some soldiers. In the course of the game she must have made a mistake, and when it was drawn to her attention she ripped out an oath, an oath that I had not heard since my boyhood days when we owned mules. In fact, I had forgotten mule language until this supposedly well-cultured and brilliant young woman used profanity at its worst. She came down the aisle of the car a little later. Aking her seat very timidly, she said to me: "I suppose I am in the doghouse." I said: "No, of course not," but I thought to myself, no respectable dog would have you in his house. So this matter of choosing words during childhood and _ adolescent days is most important. Mothers in Israel should be kind. Kindness ls the essence of the spirit of God, and in any home where kindness does not abound we find the negative spirit, that spirit which breeds contempt, anger, faultfinding, and criticism. However, I am quite sure that in the home of every real Latter-day Saint mother, the predominant influence is that of kindness. Latter-day Saint mothers should keep their children busy. If there is one curse in the world today, it is the curse of idleness. And one of the sad things about it is that there are those in high places in government who advocate idleness through the plans they propose to fasten on the American people. We have too much leisure time. Leisure 294 time breeds idleness, and idleness, in turn, leads people, both young and old, into paths that cause difficulty and trouble. Recreation— yes, in its place and in the home under the direction of father and mother, where father and mother participate. And the time will come when youth leaves the home, goes out into the world, then recreation should be found first in the ward and in the stake, where Latter-day Saint ideals are upheld under the supervision of the Priesthood of God. It is unfortunate that in our midst there are such recreational centers, not sponsored by the Church, where young people are told, "Here is the basketball, here is the other equipment for such games as you care to play, and you will find the cigarettes here." I hope the mothers of Israel will be on guard to the extent that when their sons and daughters go out they will know where they are going and do all they can to persuade them from frequenting any place where tobacco or alcohol is used. OTHERS in Israel, teach your children the law of virtue as it is taught by the restored Church of Jesus Christ. 'There is but one standard for men and for women,. And rather than lose one's virtue, better one lose his life, for at least he will die clean in the sight of God. No nation can endure when its citizenry becomes immoral, for immorality brings with it all the weaknesses that destroy spiritual, physical, and mental strength. The Lord declared to the Prophet Joseph, "I will have a clean people, and I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 will chasten them until they become clean before me." I hope that Israel will never be chastened by the Lord because of uncleanliness, but that by living the law of virtue as God has given it to us, we can be looked upon by him as a peculiar people. Any people who are sweet, clean, and have the highest ideals with reference to virtue are a peculiar people. We can become a peculiar people if we live up to our covenants with the Lord. We will be clean and loyal to our chosen life's companion, not only a companion in ~ life, but throughout eternities to come. Give consideration to faith in God, mothers in Israel, obedience to his commandments, virtue, lndustry, frugality, care of family, words of wisdom given in the spirit of kindness, gospel teachings, and out of it all there will preside in Latter-day Saint homes the kind of a mother that God wants the mothers in Israel to be, the kind of a mother best described in the words of Elbert Hubbard: It requires two to make a home. The first home was made when a woman, cradling in her loving arms a baby, crooned a lullaby. All the tender sentimentality we throw around the place is the result of the sacred thought that we live there with someone else. It is our home. The home is a tryst, a place where we retire and shut the world out, Lovers make a home just as the birds make a nest, and unless a man knoweth the spell of the divine gift, I can hardly see how he can know a home at all, for, of all blessings, no gift equals the gentle, trusting, loving companionship of a good woman. God bless you and sustain you always, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. The Household of Faith Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor, Relief Society Magazine ANY people have long beM lieved that there is a pattern in the adversities that perplex our lives and sometimes turn them into channels of trial and difficulty. A great poet once wrote: "Sweet are the uses of adversity." 'There are many noble souls who rise above personal tragedies and stand before their families and their friends as valiant ones. But there are few, indeed, who have builded something beautiful and strong and radiant out of adversity. I shall long remember a day in the early spring of this year when I visited a family who have achieved a united victory over a great sorrow, who have found a peace so beautiful and a faith so strong that these qualities radiate far beyond the walls of that home and the hearts of that family. The wide-windowed house, close to Provo's high eastern mountains, faced the south, and I walked slowly toward the door. Something of the woman's story was already known to me—certain facts and events of her life. And also it was known that her earth life was drawing to its close and that the disease which had afflicted her for seven years had now almost completed its work. That there would be sorrow in this home, I had expected, but nothing in my life had prepared me for the Sharing of the rich and _ beautiful spirit which permeated that home and all of its members—a spirit of trust and serenity so great that it had overcome the approach of death and had placed our earth existence in its proper element in the spheres of eternity. It seemed strange, at first, to hear someone playing the piano beyond the closed door. As I learned later, the oldest girl, nineteen, was teaching one of her pupils. The notes were beautiful and not loud, however, and I felt, even then, an impression of harmony and peace. A dear little grandmother opened the door to me, her sweet, round face revealing an aged and gentle wisdom. Later, she said she was eighty-three, the mother of the woman who was so ill in the east bedroom, the grandmother of the five children of this household. A shaft of afternoon sunlight struck her white hair, wound high on her head, shining and lovely, and in that moment I realized more poignantly than ever before the beauty that an aged woman wears, gracious and wise and etched by the years. The sick woman's only sister was there, also, to assist in the household and lend her strength to one who greatly needed all that could be given her. Capable and kind, she exemplified the ideal image many of us hold in mind as a picture of a true Latter-day Saint woman who earnestly believes and makes belief a part of her life. This sister, a stake Relief Society president, was all that such an ideal might emPage 295 296 body, and she moved with quiet steps to lead me into the east bedroom. I shall never forget the lovely blue eyes of the little mother who lay so quietly on the high bed, unable to turn or move. She spoke haltingly, made me welcome, expressed her appreciation. If her strength had been great enough that afternoon, no doubt she would have explained to me, as she had to another visitor a week before, that no one should feel sorty for her. Her life, she confided, had been satisfying and complete, full of joy and fulfillment. Her parents, of the best of pioneer lineage, had trained her carefully in the principles of the gospel. In her father's house she had had the security of love and devotion. She had fulfilled a mission for the Church, had married a returned missionary, and with him had made a home and welcomed six children. One of her sons had died in early childhood. "He may now be in need of me," she said. The youngest child, a son, had been born two months after the mother had undergone a major operation in an effort to halt the disease which had proved to be so persistent. UT the little mother, Virginia, did not say much about the illness which had defeated her body. Rather, she spoke of all that life had given her. She had enjoyed the privilege of rearing her children as Latter-day Saints, the dear routine of Primary and Sunday School, and the blessing of the sacrament meeting, the preparation of lessons and talks and booklets, and the deep RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 growing of childish testimonies. She recalled work as a Relief Society teacher, the years when her husband served as a ward bishop, the full, rich years. But this day it was difficult for her to talk. She was very tired and so I moved away. The thought kept recurring... She is young to leave her home and her children. But this, too, she had explained on that other day to another visitor That this life is only a brief event in the Father's reckoning of time; that they would be united again, husband and wife, children, relatives, and friends; that they would know again the dear bonds of unity which held them together upon the earth. And all the loved ones of the family would surely come, eventually, to join the one who first made the journey. This thought, almost too deep for words, was interrupted for me by the two youngest children, a boy, six, and a girl seven, coming home from school. And, of course, the first thing they did was to look for mother. 'They came in quietly and edged up to the bed, their bright faces glowing with health. The mother reached out her hand towards them and her blue eyes lighted up. Soon Virginia's mother and sister showed me some of the fourteen needle point chair covers which Virginia made during her illness— handwork so exquisite and of such quality that it will adorn the home for many years to come. They also brought out a Doctor's academic tobe which Virginia had made for her husband. The workmanship was faultless, all the rows of difficult THE HOUSEHOLD OF FAITH smocking, the velvet stripes, sewed carefully and accurately by hand. From her bed, also, Virginia had directed the affairs of the household, even doing the mending and the hand sewing on her children's clothing, trying right up to the last to be a good mother, a thoughtful wife, an accomplished housekeeper. And she had completed a very special project, intended to be a lasting gift for each member of her family. Perhaps, in moments of wondering, it has occurred to most of us— what would we do with our last earthly weeks of time if we knew that our stay was limited to narrow bounds of days? Virginia's answer expressed beautifully her philosophy of life that is eternal. For each of her children she had made a book of remembrance, containing photographs and records of the ancestors on both sides of the famil;, bits of family history, and precious incidents that shaped family attitudes and accomplishments. Each book contained pictures of the son or daughter from babyhood into the developing years, birth certificates, and other records, school mementoes, accounts. Of birthday parties—the dear familiar events of childhood. OR her husband, Virginia had collected copies of the talks he gave as ward bishop and some of his other addresses, several of his delightful essays on such subjects as children, gardening, and Church work, his circular letters to his brother and sisters announcing the births of the children. Among the choicest items in the husband's book 297 were the acounts of his visits to the general Church conferences in Salt Lake City. The few lines from a circular letter quoted below reveal something of the kindliness and humor which characterize the family..... The summer is pretty well planned, and our whole life for that matter, children everywhere you look, morning, noon, and night. On the stairs, under the table, in the. Bed, playing the piano, not a dull moment, a real community— home evenings, sores, love affairs, report cards, chiggers, haircuts, food, dish towels, dresses, shoes, and so on I'm really proud of the kids and the fine mother. We're both healthy and like to be worried with children. Virginia's own book, systematically and beautifully arranged, was divided into four sections: My Kin— My Story—My Children—Prose and Poetry. She included a tender poem, written to her youngest son, to go with a sweater she had knitted for him while she was in a hospital far away from the little boy: TO LITTLE JOE ON HIS THIRD BIRTHDAY Fach stitch says, "Joe, I do love you." Each stitch says, "Be a good boy, too," Each stitch a prayer that you will grow The goodness of the Lord to know. Turning the pages of the books, enjoying the word-treasures there, I had not heard Virginia's husband come in, until he called to her from the doorway, "How are you coming, Mom?" Her wide blue eyes answered him and she _ whispered something as he stood by the bed. Then he showed her the chairs he had just bought for her needle point covers, 298 Soon the fifteen-year-old girl, tall and lovely, came home from school, and then the eleven-year-old boy, and the family members were together—not just assembled—they were together in a unity of spirit transcending anything I had ever seen—a deep, spiritual oneness, as an eternal family should be. Saying goodbye to Virginia and her family was not easy, and yet the memory is not a recollection of sorrow or grief in that home, but a Note: This brief tribute to faith and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 memory of faith triumphant and the spirit of the gospel which had brought comfort and peace to them. And this, from a letter which the husband wrote long ago to his wife's _ grandmother in Arizona: Virginia is a beautiful girl—the beauty of a sunrise in character and face. But you are beautiful, too—the beauty of the sunset in your gray hairs—and your life so mellowed by the years. Sometimes even great artists cannot say which is the more beautiful—the sunrise or the sunset. Courage concerns Dr. Harold Glen Clark of Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, his children, and his wife Virginia who passed away March 16, 1950. Pastel of Spring Dorothy J]. Roberts But a few days now till spring be over And summer whiten the lanes with clover. Swift were the metamorphoses From the branches' brown cocoons to these Tiny, lifted wings—like feather— Sprouting from every twig. Oh, tether This gauze of bud-lace a moment longer Until the image be made stronger Of this first live pastel of spring, After a year's remembering. Meditation Bessie G. Hale To him who knows the sweetness Of prayerful quietude, The things which are revealed In lofty solitude, There comes a benediction As of moonlight over land; One feels the very presence Of his gracious, guiding hand. Art Florence Berrett Dunford Fashioning a poem is like Capturing a moment out of time; The moment lengthens, Becomes a piece of that far horizon, A lost smile— A bit of love's perfection; These are yours to keep, When you write a poem. The Recital Deone R. Sutherland N_ Fridays, Miss Carroway () came to give us piano lessons—Richard, Randy, and me. The doorbell rang, and Mama called from the kitchen, "See who that can be." Richard opened the door. "It's only Miss Carroway," he called. "Good afternoon," said Miss Carroway, striding in past Richard through the hall to the living room. She set her brief case on a table and unpinned 'her hat. "Good afternoon," said Mama, coming in. "Which of the children would you like to hear first?" Mama always asked this question, and Miss Carroway always answered, "T think we had better get Richard out of the way first." "Richard," Mama said, her voice gliding upward on the a-r-d. We sat down, and Richard, dragging his feet, went to the piano. His shoulders slumped. Miss Carroway unfastened her brief case, took out her music, sat down, and leaned her head back. "Posture!" she said to Richard. "Now the scales." Up and down went Richard laboriously, stumbling over the notes. Then he opened his book. He skipped parts of pages now and then, but Miss Carroway didn't seem to notice. She always noticed though when we tried it. Finally Richard said he was through. "T should think so," said Miss Carroway. Mama always looked very strained during our piano lessons. "Your practice record book," said Miss Carroway. Richard opened it. "He really practiced the half hour daily," said Mama, "but he doesn't seem to concentrate properly." Miss Carroway marked the book, assigned the new lesson, arched her hands, and showed Richard how his pieces should go. Thump, thump, went her fingers. "Now, the girls," said Miss Carroway. She didn't seem to mind us so much. Richard sighed with relief as he sat down by Mama. Mama looked at him despairingly. We were glad when our lessons were over. "A piano lesson spoils the whole day," decided Richard. Mama always went through Richard's music lessons with him, but he didn't seem to improve. "Do you think we should give up?" Mama asked Papa. "Yes," said Richard. "No," said Papa. Randy and I looked pityingly at Richard. "Your soul isn't in it," said Randy, "you have to have depth to play the piano. You don't have any." Richard held his nose. The next Friday Miss Carroway announced the pieces we were to prepare for the recital. Richard's was something about spring. "I can't come," said Richard. Cé 7 - Of course he can come," assured Mama soothingly to Miss Carroway. Page 299 300 "I. Won't be able to play," gasped Richard with earnestness. "Yes, you will," declared Mama, looking at Miss Carroway with a strained smile. "Tll break my arm," said Richard. "He's had the piece three months," Miss Carroway said, "and there are three more weeks before the recital." "The recital will be good for him," said Mama; "his father thinks so, too." FTER dinner Papa made Richard play his recital piece. Richard went up and down on the piano, repeated, stumbled, crouched, hunched, hammered.. Papa looked at Mama doubtfully. Richard got up from the piano bench. "That's fine, Richard; we'll practice you every night as well as every afternoon, and you'll do fine," Papa promised. "When do we get to practice?" Randy asked. "I won't play," said Richard, and he went mournfully to bed. "If he really doesn't want to?" questioned Mama. "Nonsense," said Papa, "though I suppose it means we'll have to go to hear him." He sighed and looked at his paper. Miss Carroway called Mama on Thursday. "I won't be able to give the children their lessons tomorrow; I have quinsy. Since it's so near recital time, I'm going to send my niece, Susan Carroway. She's preparing for concert work, so they'll have an adequate teacher." Miss Carroway's voice faded away entirely so she hung up. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Mama told us that we were to practice especially hard to impress Miss Carroway's niece. We practiced as usual. On Friday afternoon Miss Carroway's niece came to give us our lessons. She wore a kind of pink velvet tam on the side of her head. "Let me take your coat," Richard said. She wore a pink sweater and a navy blue skirt. "Thank you," said Susan Carroway, and she smiled two dimples at Richard. Her hair was light and short and fly-away curly. Richard carried the brief case to the table. "T usually play first," Richard said, "but I hate to because I don't play very well." "What an understatement," murmured Randy, but Richard never noticed her. "Oh, I think you'll do fine," encouraged Susan. She pulled her chair over by the piano. Richard opened to his scales. "No," said Susan, "let's hear the piece." Richard had been practicing twice as hard all week, but had shown little improvement until now. There was something gentle about the way he approached the music. Susan played the passages where he stumbled. 'Then he played them. "Do you feel the difference?' she asked. "Yes," said Richard fervently. Randy and I were jealous, but when it was our turn Susan helped us the same way. "How well you play," said Susan to Randy, "but the run here should go—"' and she played it for us. Randy glowed. So did I. © THE RECITAL "What a lovely piano lesson," said Mama. "TI don't feel so discouraged about the recital now." "Will you come next time?" asked Richard, standing on one foot. "Tf my aunt isn't well enough," answered Susan, putting soft pink gloves on her white hands. | "Tl practice all week," promised Richard, changing feet eagerly, gazing after Miss Carroway's niece. He did, too. We fought for the piano. 'Thursday morning at five Mama had to hold Papa back to keep him from going into the living room to drag Richard back to bed. We could hear Mama arguing with Papa about it. Richard' was using the soft pedal, but we could still hear the piano. Mama explained about Susan Carroway. "You're improving," Papa said to Richard, "but don't overdo it." "No sir,' answered Richard, exercising his fingers and humming his recital piece. QUSAN Carroway rang the doorbell on the next Thursday, also. We were waiting for her, watching through the curtains. "My, how you've all improved," said Susan. "I think you'll all play lovely at the recital. You'll not be late?" "Oh, no," said Richard emphatically. We waved goodby. Afterwards Richard sat and held his music. "I think I'll be a concert pianist," he said. "Richard can't keep this practicing up much longer," said Papa. "This Susan Carroway must be something to take a piano lesson from." 301 "Yes, she is." Mama looked worried. "How can this all end?" She began darning our stockings. Richard came in and sat at the piano. It was his turn. "Richard," Mama said, "I just want you to play well enough for your own enjoyment." She bit her thread. "Do you think she'll really like this?" Richard asked, playing again. The Thursday before the recital we made Susan Carroway promise us that she'd be at the recital. "T wouldn't miss it," said Susan, dimpling for us. "Can I do anything for you?" asked Richard, as Susan was preparing to leave after this last lesson. "Just play as well Wednesday night as you played for me just now." "T will," cried Richard, hanging out of the door, looking after her. "We will," we cried. "Of course you will," said Mama. "Now come help me get dinner on. No one is to touch the piano tonight while your father is home. He's been under quite a strain these past two weeks, and he seemed very nervous about your practicing this morning at five, Richard." But Richard didn't hear her at all, and we hardly heard. We could still smell the perfume of Susan Carroway. At last it was Wednesday. Randy and I wore anklelength dresses, which were new. We practiced going to the piano, curtseying to the audience, and then sitting down gracefully. Richard tried on Father's dress suit, but it was far too big, so he just wore Father's bow 302 tie and shirt front with his own best black suit.: Mama was doubtful about Richard's clothes. "The neck on the shirt is too large, Richard." "Do I look old?" asked Richard, scowling in the mirror above the fireplace. "You'd better wear one of your own shirts," said Mama. Richard looked at her scornfully. "T've never looked better," he declared. He combed his hair again and wiped the comb on his handkerchief. He had put oil on his hair to hold it straight back and flat. He held his music carefully. "What on earth did you do to your hair?" Papa asked Richard when we went down to the car to go. My stomach felt hollow now that we were at last on our way. Richard kept swallowing and wetting his lips with his tongue. Randy's hands were almost as cold as mine. AMA and Papa went in through the front door, and we entered a side door. We took off our coats and hung them on hangers. Randy tried to fix Richard's shirt which was dislodged when he took off his overcoat. Miss Carroway assigned everybody seats on the platform. We couldn't see Susan. "Isn't your niece going to be here?" Richard planted himself in front of Miss Carroway. "Of course," said Miss Carroway, who kept dashing back and forth very busily. "She's going to be in the audience. Everyone ready now?" We lined up. The audience clapped politely as we went onto the platform. My program was wrinkled ' took it over to him. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 from my damp hand. Richard wadded his into a ball. We stared out at the audience. I picked out Mama and Papa. Papa was staring back hard at us; then 'I noticed he was staring at Richard. Papa looked very flustered. I looked at Richard. He looked quite odd in Papa's dress shirt. Richard had to keep pushing it up because of the large neck size. Papa leaned over and said something to Mama; she shook her head and frowned. She didn't look at us at all. Miss Carroway was announcing that the program was to be carried out as written on the programs. Then the music began. The less advanced students played first. We had our pieces memorized, but Richard kept looking at his piece which he had brought to review until the last moment. He also kept searching the audience. The door at the back of the hall 'finally opened, and Susan Carroway slipped in. A tall man in a tweed overcoat followed. They sat in seats at the rear. Richard straightened up, stared wildly, and then slumped back in his seat. Randy and I both had to poke him when it was his turn. He went awkwardly to the piano and slouched on the seat. He began, stumbled, and came to a halt. He had forgotten! Randy picked up his music and "What's the matter with you?" she hissed. Richard scowled at her and opened his music. I looked at Papa who had slid way down so I could hardly see him. Mama had fixed her eye on a chandelier. Richard began again and went THE RECITAL clear through without a mistake. I played and then Randy, and at last it was all over. Mama and Papa came up to us. "That was fine," said Papa heartily. 'Richard, why don't you put on your overcoat? Ready to go, girls?" We were. It was fun now that it was all over. Susan Carroway made her way up to the front where we were. She brought the tall man with her. "My fiance," she explained. "Why, where is Richard?" He had slipped back into the cloak room. | I went for him. "You have to come out, Richard," I said. Richard came out. "You played very well," said Susan smiling, and she shook hands with him. Richard looked very stiff and pale, but he shook hands. 303 "Well," said Papa when we were all going home, "what kind of sundaes do you want?" We chose hot fudge, but Richard didn't say anything. "Richard?" asked Papa. "Not any kind," said Richard, but when we drove up, he said maybe he'd have a fudge one. Mama let us have a brief holiday from practicing the piano, and then we had to start again. Thump, thump, went Richard doing his scales. "T'm glad there won't be another recital for a whole year," said Mama. "Me too," said Richard tiredly, stumbling over his new piece, keepine one eye on the clock. He was back to practicing one half hour a day. She Childless Mother Christie Lund Coles I take no honor from the many who Are mothers and who wear their motherhood With grace as beautiful as candle-glow, Whose hands are swift in doing constant good. And yet, I know for certain there are those Who truly would be mothers and who ache Deeply within themselves when seeing rows Of girls in dresses that their mothers make. For they are mothers to each lonely child In neighborhood or church. They smile, they teach? They encompass with love. Unreconciled, They crave always this thing beyond their reach. So, on this day, honoring another, _I pay a tribute to each childless mother. A Converts' Granddaughter Returns Part I Helen and Cyril Pearson 'M never likely to forget Valentine's Day, 1948. That's when our European trip had its inception. The telephone was ringing. It was one of the fellows at my husband's office in New York. "Hold the line a moment," he said, "your husband Cy wants to speak to you." My woman's curiosity was aroused. First of all, I don't like the nickname "Cy," but I've learned to put up with it. It was Cy all right. "T'm going to Europe on company business," he said, "how'd you like to go along? We'll cross the Atlantic by the Queen Elizabeth— New York to Southampton, then up to London. Have a look at Hyde Park, and then wander over to Upper Brook Street at Horseshoe Yard, next door to the old home of Handel the composer. At number 6 Horseshoe Yard we'll find European Mission Headquarters. Then take the Golden Arrow train to Paris by way of the white cliffs of Dover." "Don't forget Switzerland," I cut in, rising to the bait like a game trout to a hackle, "and Scandinavia, and Holland, and Belgium. By the way, when do we start, and how much is the ocean fare?" "Leave New York on the Elizabeth, April 14th," Cy said, "roundtrip cabin fare costs four hundred and fifty dollars." Page 304 And that's how it came about that the converts' granddaughter came to visit the land of her forefathers. % % * * F once you have traveled by ship to Europe, as a missionary, you have a memorable contrast in store when you go by our ship, the "Lizzie," as the Queen Elizabeth is called, which is a floating palace. If the Hotel Utah had a twin, and the two of them could cruise together like an iceberg at thirty knots, you'd have a good comparison with the luxurious "Liz." A woman passenger expressed it well when she asked the deck steward, ""When does this place reach England?" The ship was in the lower Hudson opposite the Aquarium formerly known as Castle Garden, the European immigrant station of former times. You might call Castle Garden the Plymouth Rock of nineteenth century Zion. Tens of thousands of immigrant Mormons, with the gospel's burning zeal in their bosoms, have debarked at Castle Garden from vessels of sail and steam. After passing Ambrose Light and you're out on open sea, it takes a good share of the afternoon to get settled in the small stateroom that will be your home for the five days until the Queen reaches a not-so- "merrie England." 'The officials check passports, distribute infor- A CONVERTS' GRANDDAUGHTER RETURNS mation forms to be filled out, and keep you busy with a dozen other chores, including assignment of seats at the dining table. It's not till evening that you go out on deck to look at the brilliant moon and stars. 'The rain clouds have departed and the sky is as clear as night over the Arizona desert. Nearly a century ago your own grandparents were voyaging westward over this very sea—destination Zion in the Rocky Mountains, just like all the others who made the same journey in the past century. According to the sailors aboard a modern ocean liner, each crossing of the Atlantic is either the roughest ever made or it's the smoothest. The sailors never admit that a crossing is perhaps just in between. It wouldn't be fair to the passengers, a grizzled steward remarks with a smile. Our voyage is the smoothest. The Liz's first stop is Cherbourg, France. 'Then she doubles back to Southampton. Contrariwise, landing day in Southampton is as sunny as embarkation in New York was rainy. The boat train ls waiting to take us to London. There's a catch verse in an oldfashioned reader that you usedto think was a little oversweet. It ran. "Oh, to be in England now that April's there.' Now you know the author wrote the truth. "This day is one of a dozen that've happened in England since the Middle Ages," a Londoner tells you facetiously. 'The mountain blooms of Provo Bench on the fairest day of a century couldn't surpass old Grandmother Britain today. The 305 English fruit trees, hundreds of thousands of them, are literally weighted down with pink and white blossoms, drenched by hot sun. The train is racing through Hamp-. Shire. You wonder how many missionaries from the time of Heber C. Kimball till now have made this trip to London and have labored in these very towns. You recall that John Taylor, the only President of the Church who wasn't born in America, came from.,. This scepter'd isle. This other Eden, demi-paradise; This fortress built by Nature for herself. This precious stone set in the silver sea This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England. (William Shakespeare, Richard II, act 2, scene 1) T'S an hour and a half from Southampton to London's Waterloo Station, but you begin to scent the air of London about the time you reach Wimbledon, celebrated in the sports world as the great tennis center. London's an unknown big city, so you profit by past experience and take a taxi to your hotel on Piccadilly. Piccadilly is next to Hyde Park, where our Latter-day Saint missionaries hold forth at open-air meetings. Speaking Corner. In Hyde Park is just next to Marble Arch, and it's just five minutes walk to Selfridge's American Style Department Store on Oxford Street. You can pick up a good American breakfast at Selfridge's. Marble Arch is the site of a bloody London gallows of the Middle Ages, so it's literally true that the sound of the voices of Lat- 306 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 LATTER-DAY SAINT OPEN AIR MEETING, HYDE PARK, LONDON ter-day Saint elders, proclaiming the gospel at their Hyde Park meetings, carries right to one of the strongholds of ancient English tyranny. On your first trip to Hyde Park, about seven in the evening, you meet the elders for the first time out, and you look on firsthand at the test by fire of a Hyde Park meeting. In a sense, the gibes of the crowd aren't personal, but the new missionary has to have the spirit of the Lord with him if he's going to stand up to his hecklers. "Prove there's a God," bawls an atheist. The presiding elder, an ex-United States Army bomber pilot, once stationed as a soldier in this very London, is willing to discuss the existence of God, and he does. Ata favorable moment he asks a new missionary to embark on his speaking career. "Tell them of the first vision," the experienced elder suggests. The newcomer relates very simply, albeit a trifle haltingly, how the Father and Son, in response to the boy Joseph's prayer, visited the earth. A raucous cockney in the crowd yells at the young elder, "You warn't there! Hi don't believe a word of it!" A man in the crowd, sympathetic to the missionary, chides the heckler, "Leave the Mormon be! Maybe I don't believe it either, but I'll give 'im a chance." This little dramatic clash makes the crowd perk up. Other people surge over to see what's going on. Quietly the ex-pilot missionary takes over from his less experienced colleague. He asks the interrupter, "Have you ever been at the North Pole?" A CONVERTS' GRANDDAUGHTER RETURNS The crowd gets the point, and there's a modest clapping of hands and even a "Hear! Hear!" from the listening audience. As you take the trip by bus from London to Oxford and from Oxford to Stratford on Avon, you see the breed of folk who have lived on these farms and fields since the time of the Saxons. One cannot help thinking how much Stratfordon-Avon resembles a New England village. 'There is no place in Utah quite similar to Stratford. Perhaps Logan, with the college taken away, -would be most like it. Yet out of little countrified Stratford, in the sixteenth century, came the world's supreme literary genius. Shakespeare's life is still an enigma. Perhaps the Latter-day Saint doctrine of the pre-existence would explain the life and works of the bard of Avon. 307 OU'D like to stay longer in England, but you've got to move to France. So you begin the journey from London to Dover's white cliffs. Your train, the Golden Arrow, compares favorably with America's best. You reach Paris on the evening of April 30th, just in time for May Day, and you have your reservations at the Hotel California, just off the Champs Elysees, the Fifth Avenue of Paris. Paris is laid out like Washington, D. C., or, more properly, Washington is laid out like Paris, since the American capital was planned by a Parisian architect. As a lady missionary put it, if you know your way around Paris, you can get to your destination on the bias. "But, Sister," she said to me, "if you don't know your way around Paris, stick to first principles. OtherANN HATHAWAY'S COTTAGE, STRATFORD ON AVON, ENGLAND 308 wise you'll end up where you're least expecting!" For example, the intersection of streets at the Etoile in Paris reminds one of Washington's Dupont Circle. French Mission headquarters were formerly at 8 Place Malesherbes. You walk along the Champs to Napoleon's Arc de Triomphe at the Etoile, and then take Avenue Wagram, which leads you to Boulevard Malesherbes, near which is 8 Place Malesherbes. Incidentally, when you reach your location, you find memorial statues to Sarah Bernhardt and Alexander Dumas in a park next door to former mission headquarters of "L'Eglise de Jesus Christ des Saints des Derniers Jours,' as our Church is known in France. In Paris each apartment house is under charge of a caretaker. The caretaker is generally a woman known as a concierge. The concierge at 8 Place Malesherbes tells you that French Mission headquarters have been transferred to Geneva in Switzerland, but that services in Paris are held at 184 St. Germain Boulevard, on the left bank of the Seine. We start for the St. Germain address. To use a phrase well-known to Latter-day Saints, the weather continues to be of the kind that might be described as "paradisiacal." Over here they say, 'Paris in the spring!" and let it go at that, but it has a special meaning to the Continental mind. OST of the streets of Paris are named after great men and women and historical events. For example, the Cours de la Reine is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 the road taken by Queen Marie Antoinette from the suburbs of Paris to her prison in the Conciergerie. Boulevard Hausmann is named for the great planner of modern Paris. 'There are streets and squares named for Voltaire, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Leningrad, and British King George V (everyone, including Americans, gives it the French designation, George Cing). As we walk, a crossing street sign says "Place de Toquerville." Baron de Toquerville was an early French explorer who visited the West. Toquerville in Utah - is named for the same man whose name is honored by the street in Paris. You cross the Seine and arrive at the Church hall in the vicinity of Mont Parnasse. L'Ecole des Beaux Arts, where many a Utah artist has studied, is nearby. 'Today is fast day. A hymn "Sois Tranquille— Maitre la 'Tempete Lance, Ses Vagues Autour de Nous," is sung. Translated, of course, the song ls "Master the Tempest Is Raging." A small group of faithful saints are present and bear their testimonies in easy-flowing French, the despair of a mere American who only studied the language in school. But the spirit is just the same as that of testimonies borne in Utah or Hawaii, or among the Indian tribes. "After all, why shouldn't it be?" a delightful old French sister remarks after Church. "All of. Us are the sons and daughters of God who lived together for aeons in the pre-existence; we only reside on this earth three score years and ten!" After services, the missionaries take us nearby to Henriette's, a small A CONVERTS' GRANDDAUGHTER RETURNS s Noes CNH cee aR e teins. SRR OAM ae ite a ue NB ROARW. Ean oebOn RRA conan CONCIERGERIE, DEATH PRISON OF MARIE ANTOINETTE, 309 \ An anaanShenaan secs SS ose ROAAAN RUNING ree RMN eeeea eee Att eens: sett owe Bee RRR emake ene PARIS, FRANCE French restaurant, liked by our elders and students these many years. The table service at Henriette's is gratifying to a Latter-day Saint visitor. It means you won't have to wrestle with explaining you drink neither "vin blanc" (white wine) nor "vin rouge" (red wine), and what you want is simply "I'eau naturelle," or ordinary water out of the faucet. Henriette and her staff serve pitchers of water to the missionaries, and have been doing it for years. If that seems a small thing, wait until you've visited Europe as a tourist. "See Paris and die!" is the old adage, but for the present we decide to forego the latter part of the adage and see Switzerland instead. (To be continued) A Pattern For Mother Caroline Eyring Miner Wis. Mothers were given to us, Or we were given to them, I was plain lucky. I can't think of any other reason for my getting a near-perfect one. First and foremost, mother is, and always has been, my best friend, my most ardent admirer. I am absolutely what I do will be wonderful to mother, and I always felt that way. I believe it made me want to try to do things that would really justify her extravagant praise. "That cake," she said to me once when I was a child and had presented my trial to her for approval, "has the nicest frosting you've ever made." That was true enough and the hole in the middle of the cake itself, where the top had tried to meet the bottom, didn't seem to matter much, after all. Later, perhaps, it did, when my _ brothers joked me about it, but for that moment it was good. Mother wasn't disappointed. I thought then she didn't even see the fallen part. Now I know she did, but she saw the bigger thing, the commendation I needed for my earnest effort in spite of results. Mother is an optimist. She sees the bright side of everything. I guess that is a sort of gift, but it can also be cultivated. She almost never eats a meal that isn't the best one she has ever eaten. Each sunset is the most glorious ever. Each grandchild is in his way practically perfect. It's a wonderful Page 310 secure in my feeling that, gift she has of being uncritical. Talk about a worker! There's not an idle muscle in her body. This almost-perfect world seems still to have plenty of room for her mending, her scrubbing, her re-arranging. She's up with the crack of dawn, and while there's work to be done she's at it. She loves the little things that matter; the things that are free have a special lure. From the time we were tiny tots we learned that when we ran to tell mother about the silver fingernail moon or the golden curtains in the western sky, she would drop everything and go with us to enjoy it. And we learned to truly value these things because mother loved them and that meant they must really be remarkable. Mother was a psychologist long before that term became commonplace. "You've had all you can eat, Thomas; you know you have!" she would insist to her young brother who had had only half enough pancakes to satisfy him. But he would nod his head in affirmation. He says now he must have been hypnotized. This, too, was part of her philosophy of optimism. Every holiday was a marvelous occasion at our house because of mother, and the birthday of each of us a major holiday. It wasn't that we had much in the way of material things, but there was always something and a great deal of optimistic praise and happiness to set it off as a prize package. The year I A PATTERN FOR MOTHER got some red beads and some woolen material for a blouse for my Christmas I felt like a queen. I now know it was largely because of mother's enthusiasm. One year we couldn't spare the dollar for a Christmas tree, so mother helped us set up a heavy tree branch in a can of rocks and then we children gathered mistletoe to make it a perfectly beautiful tree. There never was a better audience than mother. When I was practicing she would announce the 311 speech or contest entry I had to prepare in order to make the situation seem realistic to me, and would listen patiently and enthusiastically while it was being perfected. If we had assignments to make in Sunday School or 4-H Club she was right there to see that we did our job. Nothing was impossible of accomplishment for mother, or for us; she figured "the impossible was only a little harder." Do you want to be a good mother? I've given you a sort of pattern. ~~ «- Stay With Me Now! Pansye H, Powell Stay with me here on this grassy mountain ledge High from the valley, and look down upon Aspens and pines and the rock-strewn river's edge. Stay here awhile until the sun is gone; See where the wall of green can touch the sky, Lifting above the valley's checkered spread. Lean on this graying lichened stone, or lie And watch the mounting clouds grow tinged with red. Silently now the mountain creatures wait The dawn of night, and I would wait with you, To feel the present comfort of my mate, Knowing how fleeting are these days and few. Stay with me now; these mountain walls enfold Too much of beauty for one heart to hold! —- <G— Daily Bread Miranda Snow Walton "Give us this day our daily bread—" Her children learned to pray, But bread was such a homey thing And God seemed far away. They watehed her baking golden loaves, A thing which they could share, And symbolized this daily rite As answer to a prayer. Gn These Hulls Evelyn Wooster Viner Here in these hills My roots grow deep. I look across the richness Of the fruited plain But feel no covetousness For others' worldly gain. Here in these hills My roots grow deep. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1890 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN oF AtL NATIONS" A HAWAIIAN SUN MYTH: Ages ago there ruled over one of the seven isles that now form collectively the kingdom of Hawaii, the powerful demi-god Maui. So great was he that the island which he governed is known today by his name, and is second in size and importance of them all. The great demi-god saw each day the sun rise out of the vast crater on the eastern summit; and he resolved like Joshua of old to stop it on its course. So he prepared a net and had it carried on the shoulders of a thousand men, and in one night spread it from one peak to another, until it covered the great crater. Then he watched, and when the sun god again arose from out of the depths of that profound abyss he found himself entangled in the spreading mesh. In vain he sent his fiery shafts abroad; they passed through the deftly woven meshes without weakening them; and so at last the sun god prayed to. Be released. Maui exacted but one condition; that was that for all future time the sun should shine with warm but gentle power on the island, never shrouding his rays in mist or fog or causing them to beat too strongly on the favored island. 'The promise given, the net was cut away, and since then sun has kept its pledge —Ex. CHANGES Beauteous, blissful, sunny childhood, Peerless, priceless, joyous youth! Pure, unburdened, simple pleasures, Fraught with trust and love and truth. Wherefore do ye fade and vanish, Ere we learn to prize your worth? Ah! You're crowded out by changes— New delights, new ones find birth. SANPETE STAKE: The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society of Sanpete Stake was held at Ephraim, in the meeting house, Friday, March 14, 18go. Pres. M. A. Hyde presiding. Pres. Hyde spoke of the appearance of the Prophet Joseph, the impression he made upon those with whom he associated, his noble and dignified bearing. She had the privilege of hearing his teaching, but did not then appreciate the importance of each golden word. He seemed to have the power of winning every heart, and even his enemies softened towards him if he could converse with them. Alluded to the time when her husband, Apostle Orson Hyde, returned from a council very sad, informed her that Joseph had thrown the responsibility of the work upon the Twelve, she felt then something would take him from the people. Sister Hyde then exercised the gift of tongues, and Sister Snow gave the interpretation. MISCELLANEOUS: It is one of the strangest of all strange things in life that people are not kinder to one another. And it is beyond all understanding why one trudging along life's highway should care to go out of his way to stab another, who is doubtless having all he can do to keep up the march and tug his gripsack along. —Boston Commonwealth Page 312 HIS Mothers' Day month we are proud of our aged women—the mothers who have so greatly influenced the life of our communities. Full of years, full of grace, faith, and the deeper wisdom that comes with approach to the eternal portals, they give forth inspiration among us. In this group are: Anne C. Milne, 101, exceeding by three and one-half months the age of Mary Susannah Higgs Slaeter, also 101; Samantha Jane Tawney, 100, living with a son aged 80; Lucy Smith Cardon, Logan, 98, who has been a subscriber to the Relief Society's literary organ every single year since its first appearance as the Woman's Exponent in 1872. Ruth May Fox, 96, for forty years was a member of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association general board, and for almost nine years its general president; Martha Burnham, 96, oldest Davis County pioneer, born in_ Iowa, where her father originated the American greenback; Sarah Sprague Bates, 96, one of the first pioneers of Monroe, Utah, with more than 100 living descendants; Susannah Matilda Huish, 95. Augusta Winters Grant, widow of President Heber J. Grant, lacks two months of being 94; Sarah Graham Buxton, 91; Ursula Bandley Gee, 91, who has served 60 years Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon as a Relief Society block teacher; Mary Schwartz Smith, widow of President Joseph F'. Smith, known as a "Mrs. Good Deeds." ITH their husbands, Mrs. Emily Cooley Wells of Vineyard, Utah, and Mrs. U. E. Curtis have celebrated their sixty-seventh wedding anniversaries, while Mr. And Mrs. H. A. Petty have enjoyed their sixty-sixth anniversary. RROSALIE KIMBALL ~~ EDWARDS, a faithful and beloved woman, who was the last surviving 'daughter of President Heber C. Kimball, died recently in Ogden. She was the mother of ten children. Death has also claimed Nicoline J. Hansen Heiselt at the age of ninety-seven and Frankie Olivia Glen, ninety-six. WO women who contributed much to the cultural life of Utah have also been called by death: Nellie Druce Pugsley, who was soloist with the 'Tabernacle Choir at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893, and a promoter of higher educational goals in Salt Lake City; Kate 'Thomas, one of the persistent promoters of our Oratorio Society, and one of our most sensitive poets, expressed the spirit of our State and people as few have been able to do. Page 313 C-—> EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 37 MAY 1950 Memorial Days URING the month of May, throughout this Nation, two memorial days are observed: Mother's Day on the second Sunday of the month in veneration of ideal motherhood; and Memorial Day, or Decoration Day, inaugurated to honor our soldier dead, and observed May 30. Mother's Day is the "holiday of heart and home," wrote Ann Jarvis, its founder. It was designed as a great homecoming day, a day of family reunions; a day of uplift in the homes and churches and in the individual lives of men and women. It is a day set apart for loving remembrance of mother, for a glance. Back through the pages of time and a recollection of the lessons she has taught and the righteous principles she has endeavored to inculcate in us. It is a day wherein our appreciation for her loving service and our thankfulness for her life find expression in word and deed. No one can deny the worthwhileness of the day and the enduring values of love and strengthened family ties accruing therefrom. Memorial Day was inaugurated in 1868 by General John A. Logan for the purpose of decorating the graves of Civil War veterans. It has now become a national holiday, on which we pay tribute not alone to those whose courage, love of country, and allegiance to it made them willing to sacrifice their lives in defense of Page 314 it, but to all of our loved ones who have trodden the path of life, left their mark upon our lives, and -returned to their heavenly home. It is becoming for the living to think in loving appreciation of the dead. Calling to mind their virtues strengthens the virtues of those who remember. With this appreciation comes soul growth. Who would question the worthiness of Memorial Day? The creation of memorials in one form or another to commemorate great events, to perpetuate noble ideals and worthy accomplishments, to honor distinguished persons, is as old as time itself. Exodus 12:14 records the observance of memorial feasts in the days of Moses: "And this day shall be unto you for a memorial; and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations; ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance forever." The New Testament records memorial observances. T'he sacrament is a memorial. In Luke 22:19 we read: "And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake it, and gave unto them, saying, This is my body which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me." Today some of our finest works of art, executed by the greatest of craftsmen inspired by the nobility of-a character, the loftiness of some pursuit, or the greatness of an EDITORIAL achievement, stand as memorials to men and events of the past. Irrespective of the form, whether it be a special feast day, sacred service, holiday, or work of art, a memorial calls to mind things of worth from the past. Remembering, our souls are stirred and, relating these to the present, they become factors in our own conduct. We find our- 315 selves stimulated by loftier aspirations, strengthened by higher resolves, and imbued with a greater determination to live our own lives better. It is entirely right that memorials be created. It is befitting that we observe memorial days, considering well the reasons for their existence. —B. S. S. She One Hundredth Anniversary of the Founding —_ of the University of Utah (1850-1950) NE hundred years have passed since the General Assembly of the State of Deseret passed a resolution founding a university in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. The time was only three years after the first pioneers drove their covered wagons through the portals of Emigration Canyon and beheld the valley of promise before them. Our pioneer forefathers, who had already established a university in their beloved Nauvoo, set themselves to build an institution of learning in the western wilderness. In the midst of poverty, insecurity, and the exacting labors of conquering a desert land, they looked well to the future and laid the foundation for a university which has grown to large stature and ranks high among American institutions of learning. In the interval between 1850 and 1950, men of intellectual strength and broad vision have presided over the university and directed its advancement. Orson Spencer was appointed as the first chancellor and was followed by John R. Park, the first president, who served twentythree years and willed to the university his entire estate, including a 4,000 volume library. Our own beloved apostle, James E. Talmage, a world-renowned scholar, served as president four years and resigned at the time of his selection as a member of the Council of the Twelve. He was followed by Joseph T. Kingsbury, a scientist, who became president in 1897. John A. Widtsoe, now a member of the Quorum of the Twelve, also served as president of the university, which: attained high standards of scholarship and influence under his leadership. George 'Thomas, an able and experienced educator, followed President Widtsoe and, in turn, was suc-. Ceeded by LeRoy E. Cowles, whose administration was marked by the establishment of many new departments. Since 1946, A. Ray Olpin, who completed his undergraduate work at Brigham Young University, 316 has presided over the University of Uah, directing the institution in a period of rapid expansion. The centenary observance which took place in February was an occasion for remembering the struggles and achievements of the past and a dedication to future progress. Many distinguished visitors attended the celebration and thousands of alumni returned to the campus. An outstanding feature of the occasion was the academic procession, which was followed by a convocation in beautiful Kingsbury Hall. At this meeting, President George Albert Smith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was honRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 ored by the conferring upon him of the honorary degree of Doctor of Humanities. In presenting the degree to President Smith, Dean Meredith Wilson read, in part:.... He has helped to build a living economy, devoted years to the handicapped, kept alive a devotion to the ideals and achievements of the pioneers, and invested his best efforts in the leadership of tomorrow. A prophet to the members of his Church, a counselor, and friend to all, being a servant of all men, he is in truth, a man of God. For this lifetime of devoted service to the welfare of his fellow men, I recommend that he be awarded the degree of Doctor of Humanities... —V. P. C. She Landmark Evelyn Fjeldsted The cottonwood was mountain strong, Yet a gentle thing, a living song; Its gnarled old branches, reaching high, Wove a silver net against the sky. The shining leaves vied with the stars; Great clusters, hiding century scars, Were tremulous like wind-touched lace As the big tree swayed from clefted base, And with shattered nest and lonely sound, Like an emerald cloud, lay on the ground; The foliage fell like tapestry. Landmarks were mentioned quietly. > nee aalliest Without Price C. Cameron Johns Only as a pine tree owns the hill Or white silk clouds lay claim upon; the sky, Can the heart possess beauty. To hold it with an open hand, To touch it with light fingers, To fill the eye with never-sated hunger for it, Is as near to purchasing As we may come. Reflections Rose Lee Bond What do you think I did last night? I lighted a lamp, and there in its light I saw your face as it used to shine, Two loving eyes looked again into mine. While in this dream the flame burned low; As it flickered and died, you seemed to go Back into the twilight, from whence you had come, Leaving me breathless, and glowing, and young. Dark in the Chrysalis Alice Morrey Bailey Chapter 5 Edith Ashe, a widow, forty-seven, in pride and desperation, after hearing her daughter-in-law Annette denounce her to her son Kit, takes a job as companion to an aged, crippled woman, Mrs. Lewis, whose son Cory is away on a_ business trip. Edith has four sons, none of whom she can live with, but has always longed for a daughter. She warms to Cory's daughter Linnie, who has come home from Boston to prepare for her wedding in June. Edith is jarred from her own self-pity when she hears the girl crying in the night because the big house is so ugly. Edith offers her own much-loved furniture, which has been stored, and together they redecorate the living room and dining room. Cory, coming home _ unexpectedly, looks minutely at the beautifully furnished room, says not a word, but goes upstairs, apparently angry. Anger and mortification for hours after the nightmarish scene with Mr. Lewis at dinner. She dreaded to meet him in the morning, and could think of no graceful way out of the situation. She was tempted to pack silently and be gone in the morning—let him do as he wished about the furniture. None of them had eaten. Linnie had turned from the stairway with a gesture of helplessness, tears glistening on her long lashes. Edith could offer no comfort; the kind she had offered had only made matters worse. Why hadn't she known it would offend and anger him? Again, as at Annette's party, she had missed FY ance: lay awake in alternate the whole delicacy of human relationship. Nevertheless, at breakfast neither Linnie nor her father betrayed by tone or look any remembrance of last night's episode. "They're an old family, Daddy," Linnie was saying. "And are these Bostonians coming out here to the wedding? Will they inspect us?" "They are coming to the wedding—Paul's parents, Mr. And Mrs. Fontaine, and his sister Emily Barnard—and her husband, and Gene Hilyer, Paul's best man." "And I guess we are to put them up." "Yes, Daddy. Almost a week." A week! Edith was appalled, thinking of the bedrooms upstairs, the old-fashioned bathroom, the §archaic kitchen, and the impossible back yard she had glimpsed from the kitchen windows. It was the end of April and the yards around the neighborhood were sprouting new grass, putting forth green leaves, but the Lewis yard was overrun with rank growth, unplanted and untended, rose bushes all run to thorns, and a lone weeping birch. A high rock wall surrounded it and Edith loved rock walls, but this one was broken and crumbling untidily in spots, buried under spiny bushes of no character. 'The front yard, while planted to lawn, had bare spots and overgrown corners. Page 317 318 The April rains had washed the dark stone of the house, however, and it shone as if waxed. The ivy had lost its. Lifeless look. Its tender green fingers spread in all directions, and reached to the eaves of the brown, slanted roofs. 'The beauty of the flagstone terrace could not be spoiled by neglect. 'The architecture was compact, old-fashioned as it was. Edith guessed it had been conservative in its day. Beauty was beauty from any age of building, and the lines of the house were lovely. "Mrs. Ashe," Mr. Lewis broke in on her musings, "may I see you directly after breakfast?".. Edith's heart plunged. He looked stern, would probably let her go— after indicting her with a few wellchosen words, of course. Her hands and feet were icy as she followed him into the living room. He indicated a chair, and took one himself, facing her. He regarded her gravely for some moments, and she waited, calm now, with rising indignation. "You have made this room very, very beautiful. I can never tell you how thankful I am that you came to us at this time," he said. FPITH's head whirled with dizzy relief. "I—I thought you were angry, Mr. Lewis, at my presumption, and about my — initiative." How she hated that word. "Angry? Why should I be angry?" "Linnie said you never charged anything, and I—" Mr. Lewis made an impatient gesture with his hand, as if the matter was of no importance. "Give me the bill and I'll send a check." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 "You didn't say anything. Linnie and I both thought you were angry." "IT was overwhelmed. It was seeing a dream—a very old and almost forgotten dream come true. It was pretty vivid, like Linnie's mother and I had planned it—more than twenty years ago. It was unbelievable. I had to get out of here before I made an utter fool of myself." "Oh, I see," said Edith. "I had a pretty bad night," he told her soberly. "I can imagine," Edith. "Tt wasn't just remembering," he went on. "It was seeing what I had failed to do for Linnie that gave me the worst time. What her home could have been like. I could see her love for this room. She has an instinct for beauty, and I have surrounded the child with ugliness, thinking—well, not thinking at all, only of myself. It was pretty bitter" Edith was silent, her judgment of him undergoing a rapid change. "There's no excuse for it. I had the money. This house—I can see that I wouldn't think of it because it was painful to go on without her. That place I left dark and secret, and turned my energy into work. Coming into this room last night was like having someone rip away the blinds." "It was cruel," said Edith, really SOITy. "It was good," said Mr. Lewis, "should have been done years ago. I know I can't make up to Linnie for a whole lifetime, but I would like to make these last weeks into sympathized DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS something special. What does she need?" "Tt will be a lot of work—and very expensive," she said. "Hang the expense! We can hire the work done." "Well, it falls into three categories," said Edith, "Linnie's trousseau, the yards, and the house. Let me show you." She led the way upstairs for a tour. In Linnie's room a magazine was lying open to a girl's bedroom, done in dainty pastels, with bouffant treatment for the dressing table, spread, and window curtains. Mr. Lewis looked at it, at Linnie's unattractive room. "T see," he said grimly. "Tf Linnie will have guests these other rooms should be done, more moderately, of course, but attractively." She showed him the bathroom, the kitchen, and the back yard. "T haven't really looked at them for years. They're pretty bad. You'll do it, won't you?" "Do what?" "The house. Order anything you want to. I'll send the workmen. Pll take care of the yard. I have a few ideas of my own." "Linnie and J. She wants the experience for her own house." "Fine! Fine!" he beamed. "Edith Ashe, you are the best thing that has happened to us in a long time." "Thank you, Mr. Lewis. Your household has been good for me, too," Edith told him. "It isn't possible," he exclaimed, looking at her with interest. "But it is!" insisted Edith. "T was like my furniture, wrapped and stored away—in a state of suspended animation." 319 "T don't believe it," he scoffed, "anyone as interested in life as you are, as radiant. Yet you are changed. I didn't think of you as particularly beautiful that first morning. Fine looking, aristocratic, yes, but now you are beautiful." "Nonsense," said Edith, flushing, but his words warmed her long after he had gone. HERE was high excitement when she broke the news to the rest of them. 'They had, of course, been bursting with curiosity to know what the interview was about, especially when Edith and Mr. Lewis trooped through the house. "Oh, Aunt' Edith!" Linnie grabbed her and _ waltzed her around the table; they all talked at once. "A new kitchen," beamed Amanda. "Isn't Daddy wonderful? A pretty bedroom! And a_ trousseau! Come! Come! Come to the fair," she sang, rushing to the piano to play the accompaniment. The activity began at once. Before noon workmen had invaded the back yard and were pounding at the back door, wanting to know where the "lady" wanted the woodwork washed, the furniture moved, and the painting done. Edith wasn't prepared for them, and sent them to the basement to clean the furnace room. "A good place to begin," crowed Grandma Lewis. "I never could abide sitting in the parlor, knowing the cellar's dirty." Two men repaired the rock wall (Continued on page 355) A Letter From Nlother MY DEAR CHILDREN: How are you my darlings! This is a beautiful day. The sun played havoc with my good intentions this morning so, instead of housecleaning as I had planned to do, I spent the time outdoors in my flower garden. Nature certainly does something to one. Intentionally, too. Just look at the shower of beauty on the blossoming trees, and the glowing radiance that greets us along the garden path, Could anything be sweeter? Unless it be love. Love! If we doubt that this is the time of year for love, we need only look at the newspapers to see pictures of lovely young girls crowding each other for space to announce their coming nuptials, to convince us of the fact. And we wouldn't wish it were otherwise. Romantic love is necessary to a successful marriage, all right, but it doesn't supply everything, as you well know. I wonder sometimes if these radiant young girls have considered well the basic needs for this long partnership. Has each one found the answers to these questions: Is her lover kind? Is he considerate? Dependable? Are his religious beliefs the same as hers? Ah, there is the important question. When a girl is deeply in love she wants nothing to separate her and her sweetheart-husband, either in this life or the next. In fact, there is no time limit imposed in her mind. Never to part, is the idea. But does she know that her fiance feels the same way about it? Is it important enough for him to have prepared himself for the consummation of their love at the altar in the only place that can bring about this lasting happiness? Our temple ceremony is thniling and inspiring, worth great sacrifice in order to obtain its blessings, for it entitles us to eternal salvation in the celestial kingdom of God, together, if we remain faithful to our vows. It is a noble heritage and it can be ours. These thoughts crowd in upon me at this romantic and glorious time of year. But you know already how deeply serious the marriage vow seems to me. Forever, is the way I regard it. You might want to teach your very young people, maybe from six years on up, to aim high in their final permanent choice. It might grow to be very important to them. Evening follows morning, they tell me, so I had better close my letter now and prepare the lesson for Relief Society meeting which we hold in the evening here, Please write to me soon. I love you all dearly. MOTHER Clara Horne Park —e My Gnland Sea Mabel Jones Gabbott Though I am inland born and inland reared, I feel the mystery of ancient seas; The wide blue skies embrace all I hold dear, And Monday's sheets flaunt white sails to the breeze. Page 320 Storing Food in a T'wo-Room Apartment Esther Clark Naylor (Reprinted by request from The Relief Society Magazine, August 1948) N the matter of storing food in my small, heated apartment I have been rather successful. To do this I have had to use care, when the heat was on in the winter months, to select an outside wall or corner of the rooms where there are no heated pipes in the wall or the floor, to stack the cases of food against the wall or in the corner. Then in the summertime the food should be moved to an inside wall or closet, the coolest place in the room. In this way I have been able to keep the food until it was used up, usually from two to three years. I make my plans to store a two years' supply every summer. The canned foods stored consist of string beans, peas, corn, tomatoes (if I do not home can the tomatoes), tomato soup, vegetable soup, grapefruit, canned milk, and honey, with some canned meat and fish. 'The canned milk should be turned over every week or two. By doing this, milk can be kept for at least one year. Of course, dried beans and rice will keep indefinitely. I am now using beans and rice that were purchased about six years ago. However, the rice must be watched to avoid the weevil getting into it. I think the sealed packages would be the safest, although I have been successful in storing the loose rice, by putting it in very thick paper bags and placing these bags in a very heavy seamless sack and tying each sack tightly. Butter also can be stored for at least one year if kept in sealed bottles in the refrigerator. Before storing, melt the butter over heat that is hot enough to send the curd or whey to the bottom and then pour the pure butter fat into a wellsterilized bottle, and seal. Care should be taken that no curd goes into the bottle. There is no waste in this method, as the curd or whey can be used in cookie making. In storing home-canned fruits, such as peaches, applesauce, plums, etc., I have used the same method of storing as for the storage of canned foods. I keep one year's supply ahead, sometimes more. 'The jams and jellies I store in my cupboards, but I always seal the jams as I do the fresh fruit. I haven't been very successful in storing cheese for a very long period of time. I have kept flour successfully by lining a wall behind a door with brown paper and stacking flour in sacks, surrounding each sack with brown paper. It kept for over a year. In planning a storage for a single person in a two-room apartment it is helpful to estimate food needs. A can of peas will last for four meals; a one-quart bottle of fruit will last for five meals; a large can of tomatoes will provide a serving for each of five meals. Page 32] Magazine Subscriptions for 1949 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp Wit thankfulness and gratitude the general board acknowledges the outstanding work which has been done during 1949 by Relief Society Magazine representatives—encouraged and supported by their ward and stake, branch and mission presidencies—in placing The Relief Society Magazine in the homes of Latter-day Saints and friends. Due to their faithful efforts, and the loyalty of the subscribers, The Relief Society Magazine has been placed in 83,444 homes in 1949, an increase of 5,704 subscriptions over 1948. This remarkable increase is very gratifying and all Relief Society members will rejoice to know that for the first time for the past several years, the Magazine has become once more self-supporting. The number of subscriptions represents only 68% of the Relief Society membership as of December 1949, so there continue to be goals ahead to be reached. We would wish that those stakes which are found below 75% in the listing of stakes would resolve to place The Relief Society Magazine into more of their homes, for the general board considers it a missionary for Relief Society, and believes any Latter-day Saint woman may receive encouragement for better living through reading in its pages. The following tables show those organizations to which the highest honors go this year, and the general board congratulates each one of them on its outstanding record. HHonors for Highest Ratings Stakes South Los Angeles (California), 134% Magazine Representative—Nancy M. Rupp Wards Twenty-third Ward, Salt Lake Stake (Utah), 284% Magazine Representative—Nellie A. Harter Mission California Mission, 96% Mission President—Vivian R. McConkie, Mission District Mojave Desert, California Mission, 150% Page 322 MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1949 323 Mission Branch Franklin (West Virginia), East Central States Mission, 263% Magazine Representative—Alice B. Hartman Six Stakes Achieving Highest Percentages South Los Angeles (California) 134 Nancy M. Rupp Provo Stake (Utah) 2 2 ----121 Flora Buggart Rexburg Stake (Idaho) 119 Daphne Nef Phoenix Stake (Arizona) 113 Zola Stapley Shelley Stake (Idaho) -- 111 Eva L. Clinger, Pres. San Joaquin Stake (California) 109 Sarah E. Dana Seven Missions Achieving Highest Percentages California - ---c---sece-eecseeeeeeecoeeee96 Vivian R. McConkie, Pres. East Central States -.000200.000 ee87 Hilda M. Richards, Pres. Western States 22.022 eee eececeeeceeeeee8s Mildred M. Dillman, Pres. Texas-Louisiana 2 ----: ce-cceseeeeeee85 Leone R. Bowring, Pres. Australian - 0 --ccccecceccsececenececoeeeee84 Blanche K. Richmond, Pres. Northwestern States - 2-..2+-+--78 Georgina F'. Richards, Pres. Northern States 0.0.2.0 77.---Elna P. Haymond, Pres. Five Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Above Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) --++ Clemey Young Rexburg Stake (Idaho) -.2.2.-..-..---seseses-0Daphne Nef San Joaquin (California) Sarah E. Dana South Los Angeles (California) - Nancy M. Rupp Sugar House (Utah) 2 eectsMelissa K. Wallace Wards and Branches in Stakes and Missions Achieving 200% or Higher Twenty-third Ward, Salt Lake Stake (Utah) 284% Nellie A. Harter Franklin Branch (West Virginia), East Central States Mission s-c-eceececceeeeeeeceeeseeeeeeeeeeees263% -Alice B. Hartman Halifax (Nova Scotia), New England Mission 260% -Ruth Robar East Point Branch (Georgia), Southern States |)250% -Geneve Dubrawski 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 East Fresno Branch, Northern California Mission 248% Orange Branch (Texas), Texas-Louisiana Mission 243% Manavu Ward, Provo Stake (Utah) -.22--20.2----230% Priest River Branch (Idaho), Northwestern States Mission --.--2cc----------220% SHAKE 2..---ccscecececoscneesnonsesceuerseoseressesnseseeeeneeeen224% Santa Fe Branch (New Mexico), Western States DVATSSTOT W a. -n-e-oeeeenecceres s+ -cgine eens aan214% Glen Huon Branch, Australian Mission 206% Amarillo Branch (Texas), 'Texas-Louisiana Mission 200% Beaumont Branch (Texas), Texas-Louisiana Mission 200% Brentwood Branch, San Joaquin Stake (California) 200% Tyrell's Lake Branch, Taylor Stake (Canada) 200% -Georgia Markow Mrs. Clark Barrett Flora Buggart -Myrtle Biggs -Marie De Spain Alta Jordon Marjorie Watson Ruth M. Ray -Darlene James -Bernice Geddes -Clara E. Selk SS takes by Poveen tages South Los Angeles Provo Rexburg Phoenix Shelley San Joaquin San Fernando Idaho Falls Burley North Idaho Falls Sugar House Rigby Cassia San Bernardino Long Beach Oquirth Emigration Highland San Juan Bannock Florida Liberty Moapa Inglewood Pasadena Granite Palo Alto West Pocatello Nampa Wasatch Union South Ogden Kolob South Salt Lake Ogden 13 121 119 113 111 109 104 104 102 102 102 102 101 101 101 101 100 100 100 Farr West Taylor North Jordan Grant North Box Elder Salt Lake Twin Falls San Francisco Alberta Blackfoot Humboldt St, Joseph Big Cottonwood Sharon Chicago South Box Elder North Rexburg Ensign San Diego Boise Sevier Oneida Bonneville South Bear River Malad Cache Utah Sacramento South Idaho Falls Park Alpine Denver Minidoka Bear River Cottonwood MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1949 Bear Lake Young Reno West Utah Uintah Yellowstone Portneuf Timpanogos Parowan Weiser Mt. Graham Wells Ben Lomond East Rigby St. George Hillside East Provo West Jordan Berkeley Big Horn Juarez Lethbridge Maricopa Davis South Davis Oakland Palmyra Uvada Los Angeles Tooele Teton Gridley Pocatello Southern Arizona Mesa Franklin Pioneer Idaho North Davis Lehi American Falls Lake View Seattle Kanab Deseret North Sanpete Millard St. Johns Snowflake Raft River Panguitch East Cache Zion Park Star Valley 82 81 81 80 80 79 79 South Carolina Emery Logan Orem Mt. Jordan Mt. Logan Weber Nevada South Sevier East Riverside Mt. Ogden Montpelier Riverside Spokane New York Smithfield Duchesne Grantsville Lost River Morgan South Sanpete Cedar Temple View San Luis Roosevelt Summit Benson Blaine East Mill Creek North Weber Nebo North Carbon Carbon North Sevier Beaver Juab Lyman Woodruff Wayne South Summit East Jordan Garfield Gunnison Washington Hyrum Portland Santaquin-Tintic Moroni Moon Lake Oahu Glendale, Nyssa, East Long Beach, East Los Angeles, and University are not listed, as they are new stakes. Relief Society Enrollment Alberta Stake Aetna Beazer Cardston First Cardston Second Cardston Fourth Glenwood Hartley Hillspring Jefferson Leavitt Mountain View Taylorsville Woolford Alpine Stake American Fork Third 604 21 14 46 67 60 60 19 66 19 40 66 16 20 656 126 American Fork Fourth 56 American Fork Fifth American Fork Sixth 66 60 American Fork Seventh 75 Highland American Falls Stake American Falls Rockland Springfield Sterling Bannock Stake Bench 46 46 80 28 30 346 23 Subscriptions No. 545 18 13 58 56 58 50 22 69 25 33 64 16 15 Pct. 90 86 93 126 84 97 83 116 105 132 83 HONOR ROLL Magazine Representative Retta W. Barrus Iris Jensen Arla Prince Eleanor Brown Mrs. David Wilmont La Jeanne Tanner Eliza Beaves Annie B. Orr Viola Wynder Chloe Shafer Emma Broadbent Mrs. Wm. Payne, Jr. Rowayne Wolsey Margaret Pitcher Edna L. Meredith Donna Tregaskis Ann C. Hansen Stella Nelson Leila Abel Marie Reimschiissel Ruby Day Clara Wagstaff Zina Eliason Lois Lloyd Annie Nelson Ida J. Sorenson Rose Hansen Relief Society Ogden Twenty-first Ogden Twenty-ninth Benson Stake Lewiston Third Berkeley Stake Berkeley Second Claremont East Richmond Napa Pittsburg Richmond Walnut Creek 80 65 64 639 60 56 57 41 57 45 30 Big Cottonwood Stake 702 Big Cottonwood Cottonwood Mt. Olympus Olympus South South Cottonwood Valley View Winder Big Horn Stake Basin Burlington Byron Cody Cowley 50 65 107 80 86 84 74 776 35 59 63 29 116 No. 61 50 48 489 51 45 66 41 48 47 38 617 50 EnrollSubscriptions ment Pct. 76 77 75 77 85 80 116 100 84 104 127 88 100 105 93 80 85 119 86 76 106 83 95 107 78 Magazine Representative Doris C. Richards Edith Andersen Anna W. Mills Emma J. Hinckley Mary Langman Mabel Smith Elverda Ann Coats Jessie Stubbs Margaret Davis Mary Bledsoe Vera White Ethel A. Smith Nellie B. Stevenson Frances C. Remund Mary L. Timmerman Bertha W. Wright Elsa O. Fors Martha W. Paulsen Phoebe M. W. Stewart Elma §S. Johnson Mrs. Scott Smith Virgie Allen Sally Griffin Mary Way Hope Eyre 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Central Cleveland Grace Grace Second Lago Mound Valley Thatcher Williams Bear Lake Stake Bloomington Fish Haven Garden City Laketown Ovid Paris First Paris Second St. Charles Sharon Bear River Stake Best Garland Garland First Howell Park Valley Snowville Stone Beaver Stake Beaver Third Ben Lomond Stake leonin Kerr North Ogden First Ogden Seventh 518 104 652 73 72 67 21 23 74 72 28 28 53 26 423 43 31 39 38 35 55 63 a7 19 428 26 68 33 33 43 25 78 509 81 74 56 June Welch Mary B. Anderson Ethel Sant Ada Williams Reba Turner Afton Farman Earline Smith Merl Kingsford Millie Sprouse Bertha C. Thornock Carol K. Howell Ruth P. Hansen Emma W. Cheney Hazel L. Peterson Rosa Grandy Gertrude R. Price Wanda S. Rich Ida Prescott Rennis A. Larkin Pearl Sorenson Celine Johnson Virginia Kotter Letitia Palmer Cora Daley Lenore Mills Kate Bowman Maude P. Close Martha A. Alberts Edith V. Judkins Lenora Poorte Penrose. Red Lodge Worland Iona Branch Blackfoot Stake Blackfoot First Blackfoot Second Blackfoot Third Blackfoot Fourth Groveland Moreland Pingree Riverside Riverton Rose Thomas Blaine Stake Carey Fairfield Richfield Shoshone Boise Stake Boise First Boise Second Boise Third Boise Fourth Boise Fifth Glenns Ferry Meridian Eagle Branch Mt. Home Branch 10 13 28 17 885 104 102 98 107 75 88 36 55 24 38 109 64 36 40 17 555 76 57 93 81 45 34 81 20 14 8 37 21 15 80 108 111 82 90 90 79 100 106 100 86 111 98 79 84 83 78 97 88 76 86 95 77 94 86 89 109 89 105 107 Tilda C. Wasden Agusta Crow Daisy Nissen Maggie Beal HONOR ROLL Zila Clegg Ardella Wooton Floretta McCurdy Vera Orem Afton Johnston Sarah Chapman Gladys Belnap Sarah E. Cammack Tacy Winmill Carrie Brown Emmeline Chaffin Gertrude Williams Verna Cameron Blanche Naser Muriel Flavel Iva Lou Pingree L. Emma Cordon Utahna S. Randall Helen Purvis Leah W. Harker Viva Fairbanks Mrs. Stanley Richardson Leola Thurman Mable Roylance Edith Blackmer Estella Hall 327 Relief Society Bonneville Stake Bonneville Garden Park Monument Park Thirty-third Viale Yalecrest Burley Stake Burley First Burley Second Burley Fourth Burley Fifth Declo Pella Springdale Star Unity View Cache Stake Logan Third Logan Fourth Logan Ninth Logan Fifteenth Logan Sixteenth Logan Seventeenth Carbon Stake Hiawatha Dragerton Branch Cassia Stake Basin Enrollment 849 96 104 105 125 188 110 601 a/ 74 Subscriptions No. 722 85 103 81 13% 154 83 616 45 76 81 55 78 39 48 31 63 49 459 59 96 85 62 88 69 Pct. 85 89 99 77 106 82 75 102 122 103 113 122 100 118 109 Magazine Representative Jessie H. Jackson Aurelia Lund Bertha Irvine Alice T. Wood Harriet Worthington Millie Barnes Olive Martin Jane R. Robinson Norma Curtis Ella Boatman Mary Martin Zelma Whittle Hattie Richins Ellen C. Mitchell Gladys M. Johnson Gertrude Durfee Mary Lou Funk Thelma Taylor Orilla J. Lucas Louise R. Rich Jessie Bouwhuis Beda Crafts Blanch Rogers Genevieve B. Bradley Effie W. Darley Sadie Frandsen Evona Justensen Jane R. Hale Dona Martin Relief Society Cheyenne Crestmore Denver Second Englewood Laramie Pueblo Deseret Stake Delta First Hinckley Lynndyl Oasis Abraham Branch Callao Branch Duchesne Stake Arcadia East Cache Stake Logan Fifth Logan Eighteenth North Logan East Jordan Stake East Midvale Second Garden View Enrollment 58 49 39 53 48 34 88 98 39 34 8 6 33 80 78 65 Se 80 East Mill Creek Stake Grandview East Provo Stake Provo Eighth Provo Ninth Provo Thirteenth 105 393 85 47 64 Subscriptions No. 50 43 32 45 49 44 75 78 a3 26 6 6 31 82 68 58 41 67 112 304 74 61 57 Pct. 86 88 82 85 102 129 85 80 85 76 75 100 94 103 87 89 77 84 107 77 87 130 89 Magazine Representative Vida Birge Ida H. Clark Lilly B. Williams Ilah K. Smith Rose Eads. Ada P. Stewart Ruth J. Jensen Rosa B. Dutson Alpha Nielson Erma Skeem Emily Young Inez Tripp Ora N. Holgate Abby G. Jensen Violet Hall (deceased) Lenore B. Larsen Ida Leafquist Hazel Anderson Sarah Pearson Sarah H. Passey Lou Cox Norma B. Nelson Ruby W. Hawkins 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Marion Oakley First Oakley Second Oakley Third Cedar Stake College New Castle Chicago Stake Milwaukee North Shore University Aurora Branch Batavia Branch 27 50 47 30 83 20 370 58 52 74 11 6 Milwaukee So. Branch 11 South Shore Branch West Suburban Br. Cottonwood Stake Grant Mill Creek Second Murray First Murray Second Murray Third Murray Fourth Murray Fifth Valley Center Davis Stake Centerville Second Kaysville First Kaysville Second Denver Stake Barnum 17 ou 750 85 67 109 51 141 41 41 112 502 35 81 117 419 40 323 614 110 376 117 107 114 115 107 75 80 87 117 85 81 100 83 145 118 100 82 79 126 77 82 78 ta2 93 77 75 100 81 100 83 75 Sarah Adams Ada L. Hale Jane R. Hale Irene Sutton Florence Higbee Iva Harrison Avera C. Homer Vivienne Hart Clara Force Fardonna White Eleanor Woolcott Margaret Bjorklund Hulda Moeller Amy Landeck Luella Logan Viola L. Strange Blanche Bradford Ada Toone Mildred Bailey Florence Peterson Trene Robinson Martha Margetts Jean Erickson Myrtle Vincent Ivy P. Tingey La Von Duncan Emily Barns Pauline Waterfull Ilah K. Smith Opal Jones East Rigby Stake Garfield Lorenzo Milo Rigbv Second Ririe First Ririe Second East Riverside Stake Twenty-eighth Emery Stake Castle Dale Clawson Huntington First Emigration Stake East Twenty-seventh Eleventh North Twenty-first Thirteenth Twelfth Twenty-first Twenty-seventh West Eleventh Ensign Stake North Eighteenth North Twentieth South Eighteenth South Twentieth West Ensign Farr West Stake Farr West 523 32 28 52 54 57 61 116 96 14 70 874 69 rs) 81 106 106 97 66 78 851 168 123 207 122 138 503 68 407 36 22 41 45 60 60 125 76 2 60 878 88 73 76 140% 125% 85 68 100 754 178 124 157 122 109 469 66 78 113 79 79 83 105 98 108 79 86 86 100 128 100 94 133 118 88 103 128 89 106 101 76 100 79 93 97 Dale Burtenshaw Anna S. Christensen Deon Anderson Ellen Johnson Dortha Radford Esthea Scott Alice Grover Eleanor A. Smith Bertrude Winters Jane Larsen Anna B. Nielson Ethel L. Goates Viola L. Walton Emeline Jacobs Vera H. Burrell Alma Erickson Gertrude Russell Sallie S. Keate Florence E. Murphy Annie DeLang Charlotte W. Spencer Ruby A. Walter Cleo Parrott Beth Schick Agnes Johnson Ethel Young Maude Larson Cora A. Petersen HONOR ROLL d] 329 Relief Society Harrisville Lomond View Marriott Mound Fort Ogden Fifteenth Slaterville Florida Stake Axson Jacksonville Lake City Palatka Springfield Waycross Wesconnett Gainesville Branch Sanderson Branch Starke Branch Franklin Stake Fairview Mapleton Preston Second Preston Fifth Weston Whitney Garfield Stake Kingston Granite Stake Columbus Fairmont Enrollment 65 48 40 78 55 oz 362 34 94 25 38 60 23 22 12 17 20 69 28 78 35 106 61 21 673 75 75 Subscriptions No. 75 42 40 84 43 35 361 33 95 23 40 65 Zz Ze 15 7 20 654 77 80 Pct. 115 88 100 108 78 109 100 97 101 92 105 108 91 100 125 100 100 87 86 85 91 af 79 110 97 103 107 Magazine Representative Alice E. Hellewell Laura J. Olsen Charlotte S. Blair Phyllis Hufstetler Estel Whitney Amelia Holley Maude G. Hawkins Margritte Mizell Carene Bethea Ora Lee Milton Hilda Anderson Camillus McRae Arzell Jardon Elizabeth Jammes Doris D. McCall Mattie D. Stringer Bertha M. Cole Cora Knapp Chloe C. Peterson Venus W. Skinner Eliza Binggeli Madge H. Ransbottom Gail B. Coates Elizabeth W. McLelland Maude M. Sevy Ruth M. Durbin Enrollment Relief Society Mountain View 57 Monte Vista 75 South Edgehill 98 Wasatch 137 Humboldt Stake 136 Carlin 21 Elko 30 Wells 45 Winnemucca 19 Rowland Branch 4 Hyrum Stake Hyrum Second 69 Idaho Stake Bancroft 88 Hatch 9 Kelly-Toponce 33 Lund 20 Idaho Falls Stake Idaho Falls Second 150 Idaho Falls Fifth 78 Idaho Falls Ninth 71 Iona 109 Lincoln 65 Inglewood Stake 774 Brentwood 83 Centinella 75 Subscriptions No. 48 59 88 106 121 17 493 150 113 761 140 Pct. 84 79 90 77 89 81 77 104 105 100 75 76 111 94 90 104 100 113 108 104 100 98 169 81 Magazine Representative Ella J. Keddington Isabell Nelson May Johnson Doris Hiller Charlotte S. Ferguson Charlotte S. Ferguson Genevieve Bell Margaret E. Dahl Mary Cowan Gladys Bake Mrs. J. Lowell Anderson Ethel H. Call Elizabeth Holbrook Margaret Hebdon Edna Darlington Clemey Young Lydia M. Clark Estella Salsburg Laura Walker Amanda Pearce Dessie Walters Vera W. Larsen Frances D. Kolarik Afton Broberg 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Forest Dale Lincoln Nibley Park Wells Grant Stake Hillcrest Lorraine Smith Springview Wandamere Grantsvillle Stake Wendover Gridley Stake Chico Grass Valley Oroville Paradise Yuba City Gunnison Stake Gunnison First Highland Stake Highland Park Imperial Park Avenue Parleys Roslyn Heights Stratford Hillside Stake Beacon Edgehill 150 132 124 117 460 92 86 82 105 95 51 46 26 26 19 76 69 627 138 74 107 72 78 158 762 56 143 127% 85 132% 100 129 104 108 92 420 91 94 102 86 100 83-101 82 78 75 79 51 100 35 76 20 77 26 100 17 89 63 83 Clara Russen Catherine M. Wiseman, Emma Armstrong Johanna Hedges Allen F. Keller Lillian F. Price Helen Flowers Rubelle B. Francis Louisa A. Francom Iva Dell Holmberg Carol S. Duke Dorothy Robb Nora Medlyn Violet Gray Pearl F. Smith Mabel Hayter Alvina Pierce Mrs. M. O. Ashton Birdie E. Vincent Marvel Young Adlin Andrus Erma W. Bernston Mildred Hicken Alda Anderson Erma B. Williams Ethel Flynn Edith Maughan La Cienega Lennox. Mar Vista Redondo Santa Monica Torrance Juab Stake Nephi Third Juarez Stake Dublan Juarez Kanab Stake Glendale Moccasin Mt. Carmel Orderville Kolob Stake Mapleton Springville First Springville Second Springville Third Springville Fourth Springville Fifth Springville Seventh Springville Eighth Springville Ninth Lake View Stake Hooper First Hooper Second Kanesville Riverdale 86 55 100 51 125 50 107 144 37 Sy 41 13 19 74 701 86 81 67 74 74 80 53 65 59 78 78 36 69 108 110 109 100 129 108 106 88 76 81 76 100 116 83 108 79 82 94 100 170 85 78 81 83 108 80 98 85 75 100 Eva Quigley Josephine Bullock Sylvia Peterson Rose Dobson Edna C. Knudson Hortense B. Smith Eva McPherson Anna F. Turley Melvina Jones Maud J. Whetten Sarah E. Black Margaret Heaton Berneeta A. Tait Hester P. Heaton Mary W. Clegg Ardilla Perry Addie Underwood Eudora Jensen Ellen Giles Rose Roylance Belle Childs Effie Philips Alice Wilmott Ellen Larson Florence Naisbitt Lola Jones Blanche M. Child Pearl Champneys HONOR ROLL 331 Relief Society Lehi Stake Lehi First Lehi Fourth Lehi Fifth Lethbridge Stake Calgary First Claresholm Lethbridge First Lethbridge Second Orton Picture Butte Stavely Taber Second Brooks Branch Champion Branch Liberty Stake Eighth Harvard Liberty Ninth North Second South Second Third Logan Stake College Logan Fourteenth Young Long Beach Stake Bellflower Compton Enrollment 110 82 102 637 46 67 58 65 20 43 12 on 18 12 676 130 140 110 75 74 60 87 53 84 ol 1010 87 68 Subscriptions No. 100 67 79 478 38 28 54 49 18 33 10 by 15 7 668 151 105 144 56 74 El 87 44 65 25 Pct. 91 82 a 75 83 76 93 75 90 77 83 112 83 142 99 116 75 131 75 100 85 100 83 77 81 101 132 113 Magazine Representative Hazel May Bone Marvel Peterson Ruby Meredith Emily Anderson Helen Faulkner Luella Rice Mabel Pizzey Dixie Pratt Lavon Orr Edna West Ida L. Rodgers Lucille Valgardson Deleen Eveson Carolyne Davies Lila B. Pressler Emma Liebelt Mrs. A. M. Perry Alice Russell Myrtle Robison Amelia Marsh Amy Zentner Rena Boyle Nettie S. Abrams Vernetta Earl Selma Jensen Ethel Spongberg Susie Elsmore Marie Visser Relief Society Maricopa Stake Mesa First Mesa Fourth Mesa Sixth Mesa Eighth Pine Tempe Mesa Stake Mesa Second Queen Creek Casa Grande Branch Hayden Branch Superior Branch Millard Stake Fillmore First Fillmore Second Flowell Holden Minidoka Stake Emerson Hazelton Hunt Paul Rupert First Rupert Second Moapa Stake Boulder City Bunkerville Enrollment 556 119 88 97 66 20 66 114 16 9 20 21 653 No. 424 100 69 84 62 19 51 90 16 7 23 19 80 62 34 644 Subscriptions Pct. 76 84 78 87 94 95 a" 79 100 78 115 90 Magazine Representative Lola O. Turley Amy P. Morris Millie H. Henkel Ida S. Verney Aurelia Kelly Celeste Patterson Anne Whitney Helene Wagley May Bell Pew Mrs. Clayton Herbert Etta Phelan Leona Robertson Rachel B. Warner Ireta Bartholomew Mrs. Verl Christensen Mrs. Cecil K. Mills Clarinda Green Louie Mae Mecham Delilah J. Weckham Phoebe Parson Zelma Bauer Maybelle Stevenson Emma Garrett Eunice B. Johnson Greta Rosenbaum Vera Waite 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Compton Center Fullerton Long Beach North Long Beach Park View San Pedro Santa Ana Virginia 68 66 142 65 150 59 68 83 Garden Grove Branch 21 Huntington Beach Br. 25 Lynwood Branch Los Angeles Stake Arlington Hollywood La Brea Lost River Stake Leslie Moore Leadore Branch Lyman Stake Green River Rock Springs First Superior Malad Stake Holbrook Malad First Malad Second Malad Third Pleasant View Portage St. John 24 96 119 51 o2 38 15 58 51 2 564 16 98 99 109 34 7 52 69 70 124 71 153 50 57 86 al 25 41 91 104 47 28 30 i 49 42 2/ 477% 18 82% 104 91 29 46% BZ 101 106 87 109 102 85 84 104 100 100 171 95 87 92 88 79 87 84 82 84 85 1 84 105 83 85 82 100 Rebecca Bate Erthel Thatcher Lucy Parkin Ellen Bramley Thelma Taylor Elsa Pakulla Fannie Y. Lundquist Estella Herrick Goldie E. Sadler Almira Woodhouse Louise Harris Clara May Parry Charlotte O'Connor Phyllis Brewerton Ruth T. Olsen Lillen Bingham Marion Fletcher Dorothy Daniels Elizabeth Bateman Martha Rock Mary B. Bush Evelyn C. Nalder Pearl W. Thomas Beth B. Facer Catherine E. Thomas Beth C. Davis Twila Howell Anna Lyle Jones Charleston Davis Dam Henderson Kingman Las Vegas First Las Vegas Second Littlefield Logandale Mesquite Montpelier Stake Bern Geneva Montpelier Second Nounan Raymond Wardboro Morgan Stake Croydon North Morgan 78 16 16 23 98 110 14 52 66 25 32 103 19 15 Ay 13 63 Mount Graham Stake 661 Duncan Lordsburg Safford Solomonville Virden Animas Branch Las Cruces Branch Mt. Jordan Stake Crescent Draper First Mount Logan Stake Logan Eleventh 51 24 128 27 52 5 101 88 20 25 23 103 120 14 51 66 20 24 93 16 15 25 14 55 519 51 26 113 21 44 om 36 87 72 113 125 156 100 105 109 100 98 100 80 75 90 84 100 100 108 87 79 100 108 88 78 85 120 100 78 86 76 Grace McNatt Mae Richard Vera H. Mainer Leona Peterson Una McDonald Carrie S. Beatty Vinda Reber Betty Adams Nelda Houston HONOR ROLL Myrtle Stecklar Mrs. Doyle Steight Larena Pugmire Mary Minnig Eleaner Saxton Genieve Kunz Faye London Julia Carrigan Millie Kelly Hallie Dees Grace Richins Itha Booth June Curtis Emma J. Lines Zylpha Gale Mildred Hayner Ellen Mickelsen Myrtle Webb 333 Sabra Owen Relief Society Enrollment River Heights 54 Mount Ogden Stake Highland 83 Ogden Twenty-third 65 Ogden Thirty-third 120 Nampa Stake 487 Homedale 60 Melba. 32 Nampa First 56 Nampa Second — 78 Nampa Third 50 Nampa Fourth 55 Marsing Branch 34 Star Branch 11 Nebo Stake Park 80 Payson West 59 Nevada Stake Ely 105 Ruth 31 New York Stake Queens 52 No. Box Elder Stake 576 Bear River 74 Brigham Third 76 Brigham Fourth 95 Brigham Seventh 64 Brigham Eighth 100 Subscriptions No. 47 526 81 78 80 65 78 Pct. 87 93 88 87 95 100 97 95 101 118 131 100 100 76 100 78 97 7s 91 109 103 84 102 78 Magazine Representative Rose Hansen Hattie Andreason Edith Larson Hannah B. Allred Sarah E. Squires Lorena Davenport Rita Bradshaw Blanche T. Woolard Mrs. Alvin Hunter Vilate Adams Hanna Castagneto Anelda Reece Emily Kent Ethel T. Hiatt Laural Loveless Susan A, "Mulliner Maud Mifflin Mrs. O. C. Mueller Christina N. Bott Seretta Johnson Fern Channell Geneva F. Wright LaVina S. Hansen Dorothy Willie Enrollment Salem 69 Sugar 157 Relief Society North Sanpete Stake Milburn 13 Mt. Pleasant North 128 Mt. Pleasant South 106 Mountainville 13 North Weber Stake Taylor 64 Oahu Stake Nanakuli Branch 13 Oakland Stake Alameda 50 Dimond 112 Elmhurst 72 Maxwell Park 70 Ogden Stake 747 Huntsville 68 Liberty 23 Ogden Fourth 121 Ogden Sixth 78 Ogden Thirteenth 105 Ogden Twentieth 96 Ogden Thirtieth 73 Oneida Stake 651 Banida 21 Glenco 24 Glendale 14 Oxford 27 Subscriptions No. 69 125 13 110 90 12 51 11 51 93 75 61 702 61 19 123 69 111 126 73 55614 18 20 15 21 Pct. 100 80 100 86 85 92 80 85 102 83 104 87 94 90 83 102 88 106 131 100 85 86 83 107 18 Magazine Representative Verla Price Mary Thomson Fannie M. Graham Gladys Peterson Lucille R. Seely Vera Skelley Lorene Farr La Vina McRae Gladys Thomas Irene Dutson Veda Mann Chloe F. Summerill Edris Knapp Mary R. Ward Viola Perkins Effie Auffhammer Arva Livingston Nana Christiansten Beth Poorte Kenna Bergeson Mrs. Demont Bell Mrs. Delmar Olsen Eulalia W. Larsen Elsia Olson 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Corinne Harper Honeyville North Carbon Stake Helper Storrs North Davis Stake Clearfield First Clearfield Second Layton Fourth Syracuse 85 25 57 85 22 98 63 88 112 Sahara Village Branch 20 North Idaho Falls Coltman Idaho Falls First Idaho Falls Fourth Idaho Falls Seventh Osgood Ucon North Jordan Stake Granger First Granger Second Hunter Redwood Taylorsville 569 50 91 96 167 59 106 519 124 100 100 52 78 North Rexburg Stake 631 Hibbard Newdale Plano Rexburg First 68 35 50 143 20 51 582 55 101 107 145 65 109 476 124 100 76 53 73 5481, 74 37 86 80 89 75 86 108 75 80 81 W2Z5 102 110 111 111 87 110 103 92 100 100 76 102 100 87 109 106 54% 109 111 78 Rose B. Nelson Edith Baty Sylvia Hunsaker Estella Gale Sophia Torgersen Susan Argyle Mary Banz Bessie H. Layton Alice Anderson Leora Yardley Lucille Johnson Marion Judd Leona Merrell Anna Christofferson Emma Jensen Lucile Sorensen Elna Andrus Mable G. Morgan Rosalma Van Buskirk Marjorie H. Coats Alta Witbeck Louisa Skog Loretta Foote Lucy Furness Belva Withers Zola Allen Arvilla Parkinson Eva Summers Preston Third Preston Fourth Preston Seventh Treasureton Winder Oquirrh Stake Hercules Magna Pleasant Green Spencer Orem Stake Geneva Orem First Sharon Palmyra Stake Lake Shore Palmyra Salem Spanish Fork First Spanish Fork Third Birdseye Branch Palo Alto Stake Burlingame Naglee Park Palo Alto Redwood City San Jose -San Mateo Willow Glen Panguitch Stake Hatch 68 91 94 24 37 388 16 114 113 57 66 34 50 95 39 92 84 120 16 337 31 30 92 58 40 50 36 43 68 91 941% 19 31 390 17 114 126 82 50 32 50 100 100 100 79 84 101 106 100 112 114 76 94 100. 80 90 101 76 103 88 97 119 110 77 110 110 82 103 84 Amy S. Kern Lizzie Weaver Jennet Swainston Vera Atkinson Leona P. Winger Ione C. Fuller Hazel Bertoch Izella Jeppson Myrtle D. Russon Florence Reid HONOR ROLL Martha Pyne Eliza B. Anderson Golda Mangum Bernice Rigtrup Lois Nash Lavina Thompson Hortense Argyle Hazel J. Christiansen Rachel Spencer Sarah Avery Iris Pickering Eliza Horsfield Iva Minard Aileen Weaver Maud West Helen Bredding Rasmine Jensen Effie J. Deuel 335 Relief Society Panguitch North Park Stake Duncan Emigration First Le Grand Tenth Thirty-first Parowan Stake Enoch Parowan East Parowan West Summit Pasadena Stake Alhambra Baldwin Park Belvedere Eastmont El Monte El Sereno Los Flores Mission Park Monrovia Montebello Pasadena Rosemead Whittier Phoenix Stake Capitol Glendale Phoenix First Enrollment 90 767 66 68 94 1 65 108 350 35 84 126 25 945 122 67 84 87 83 36 55 61 71 84 97 44 54 594 92 59 94 Subscriptions No. 95 637 50 57 95 116 66 109 276 55 68 95 24 928 122 57 87 89 64 46 45 63 72 85 94 46 58 672 99 68 95 Pct. 106 83 76 84 101 85 102 101 79 100 81 75 96 98 100 85 104 102 77 128 82 103 101 101 97 105 107 113 108 115 101 Magazine Representative Thelma Orton Hattie S. Hanigan Annie Buie Lillian Schricker Clara Dittman Edna Davis Lamecia Pierce Sarah Harmon Betty M. Sorenson Cora B. Murie Cora M. Rowley Pearl Benson Lucy Green Selma L. Child Ruth Harper Lilly A. Wilcox Katie E. Scott Caroline Miller Louise Mariger Selma Child Seretta Sorenson Kay Ritchie Gladys Eccles Nell Maiben Mabrye E. Phillips Gwen Boyd Blanche Vaughn Zola Stapley Rowena Britzing Julia S. Kremer Claradell S. Dewitt Relief Society Raft River Stake Malta "Moulton Sublett Yost Reno Stake Reno Sparks Westwood Carson City Branch Rexburg Stake Archer Burton Independence Lyman Rexburg Second Rexburg Third Rexburg Fourth Rigby Stake Annis Grant Hamer Lewisville Menan First Menan Second Rigby First Rigby Fourth Roberts Terreton Enrollment 56 12 10 15 376 33 95 133 148 665 109 Beaver Creek Branch 13 Subscriptions No. 51 11 10 15 Pct. 91 92 100 100 81 127 116 104 100 119 137 IZ 115 118 131 104 - 107 102 85 82 108 100 115 100 102 100 100 116 192 Magazine Representative Alice O. Neddo Julia H. Clark Sylvia Olsen Viola Tracy Theresa Larson Helen Todd Bertha J. Purdy Mary A. Young Virginia Morris Daphne Nef Norah Grover Zina Clark Margaret Barber Jessie Moulton Maud Taylor Wanda Hunziker Eva Rudd Sara Simmons Jeannette Browning Rachel Taylor Sarah McClure Melba B. Kinghorn Emily Hart Erma Gunderson Vilate Call Ann W. Nielsen Ruth Marriott Maurine Peterson Alta Fern Doschades 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Phoenix Second Phoenix Third Phoenix Fourth Phoenix Fifth Phoenix Sixth Scottsdale Buckeye Branch Pioneer Stake Edison Glendale Park Jordan Park Thirty-second Pocatello Stake Pocatello Eighth Pocatello Twelfth Pocatello Thirteenth Pocatello Fourteenth Portland Stake Colonial Heights Portneuf Stake Garden Creek Marsh Center McCammon Swan Lake Virginia Merrill Branch Provo Stake Manavu Provo First Provo Fifth Provo Seventh Provo Tenth 124 135 451 99 102 47 88 25 34 15 68 35 87 68 75 52 116 75 105 357 113 131 107 138 104 103 94 86 100 112 80 106 76 94 121 78 79 104 85 101 123 83 89 121 230 86 100 91 79 Phoebe Thomson Rintha Naylor Mary E. Harrison Eulla Davis Ruby D. Biggs Ruby L. Cooper Stella M. Greene Ida H. Deters Dena Lund Mary Jacobs Edith Murray Gwen Davis Emma Thompson Mae Howells Cora Hartirgsen Delores Zobell Ada L. Parris Lucile Capell Gertrude Parris Wynona Glass Marie Henderson Marian Shappart LaVene Pilgrim Flora Buggart Flora Buggart Hansinia H. Burr Fanny S. Whimpey: Mary Josie Eva Thorsen Riverside Stake Riverside Twenty-ninth Roosevelt Stake Ballard Roosevelt Second Sacramento Stake Homestead Roseville Sacramento Sutter Woodland St. George Stake Central Gunlock Ivins Mt. Trumbull Pine Valley St. George Second St. George Fourth St. George Fifth St. George Sixth Veyo St. Johns Stake Alpine Eagar, Luna Nutrioso St. Joseph Stake Bryce Central 114 539 68 85 476 108 80 83 120 83 106 92 79 93 90 78 93 106 100 86 75 76 142 82 89 100 105 75 104 136 88 100 100 Hillair Daniels Elsa B. Conde HONOR ROLL Emma S. Clark Eliza Gilbert Susie J. Beutler Augusta Hillman Nida B. Morey Margherita Singleton La Verna B. Lewis Vendla Gorden Agnes Pickett LaRue Cannon Maybell Hunt Martha Hafen Rebecca H. Bundy Maude Gardner Mamie May Eunice Blazzard Elma M. Miles Emma G. Abbott Mildred Bowler Jessie Jepson Agness M. Lund Clara B. Laney Marva F. Maxwell Rula Colvin Nellie Dixon Winnie Smith 337 Relief Society Enrollment Eden Fort Thomas Globe Miami Pima Thatcher Salt Lake Stake Capitol Hill Nineteenth North Seventeenth Seventeenth Twenty-second Twenty-third San Bernardino Stake Arlington Colton Fontana Ontario Pomona Redlands Riverside San Bernardino First San Bernardino Second Yucaipa Branch San Diego Stake Fairmont Hillcrest La Mesa North Park Ocean Beach 26 40 55 54 121 168 886 98 86 149 209 98 3H 492 KS 36 28 52 72 25 75 62 62 16 475 69 64 48 65 63 Subscriptions No. 21 33 41 45 IZ 134 808 79 69 159 160 100 105 498 31 50 28 53 72 y | 75 64 62 18 410 Pct. 81 83 75 83 105 80 91 81 80 107 77 102 284 101 89 139 100 102 100 108 100 103 100 113 86 87 105 125 86 105 Magazine Representative Viola Colvin Ellen Hastings Hilda M. Sanders Elia Sims Zela McBride Sarah Hales Rebecca P. Bean Melba Barnes Klea Gray Mary Pack Katherine R. Hainline Alma Laxman Nellie A. Harter Hollie Jolley Breech Rebecca Smith Cora S. Anderson Alice S. Walker Lois Holbrook Lois S. Higgins Gladys Smith Muriel E. Smith Laura Lee Hilliker Betty E. Trent Sible Reagan. Ava S. Jones Ruth V. B. Rigby Sarah C. Bodily Della Campbell Josephine Gallacher Vea R. Beighle Relief Society Enrollment San Luis Stake Alamosa Morgan Branch Santaquin-Tintic Stake Elberta Branch Seattle Stake Bellingham Olympia Queen Anne South Seattle West Seattle Port Orchard Branch Shelton Branch White Center Branch Sevier Stake Richfield First Richfield Second Richfield Third Richfield Fourth Sigurd Venice Greenwich Branch Sharon Stake. Edgemont Hill Crest Oak Hills Pleasant View Shelley Stake 57 28 16 34 32 62 28 57 20 14 11 700 118 113 120 116 37 50 13 382 Subscriptions No. 50 25 13 34 25 56 24 46 15 16 10 599 93 116 102 104% 43 50% 12 334 60 62 51 68 643 Pct. 88 89 81 100 78 90 104 81 75 114 91 86 79 103 85 90 116 101 92 87 100 87 128 166 111 Magazine Representative Opal McDaniel Grace Price Harriet E. Barney Ella M. Petrie Mary Canning Emily Heath Charlotte Myler Hazel Doble Myra Ennis Lottie Young Ercell Fullmer Beth C. Anderson Myrtle Brown Jane Y. Pollett Laura O. Wilson Naomi P. Foisy Emily M. Nebeker Wilda O. Brienholt Mary Bagley Mabel M. Williamson Florence G. Dalton Marjorie Mott Madge McKell Ruth C. Meldrum Eva L. Clinger, Pres. 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Valencia Park 55 San Fernando Stake 1001 Burbank 68 Elysian Park 73 Garvanza 126 Glendale East 131 Glendale West 115 La Cresenta 61 North Hollywood 109 Reseda 36 San Fernando 35 Studio City 91 Sunset 62 Van Nuys 94 San Francisco Stake 313 Balboa 54 Mission 70 San Francisco 94 Sunset 95 San Joaquin Stake 281 Modesto 65 Stockton 113 Tracy 23 Turlock 30 Brentwood Branch 8 Ione Branch 19 Oakdale Branch 23 San Juan Stake 366 Blanding 86 Grayson 96 Moab 69 Monticello 102 41 1045 73 76 126 131 115 69 98 a7 35 99 69 97 283 70 53 84 76 305 65 120 28 30 16 23 23 367 91 101 66 101 We 104 107 104 100 100 100 113 90 158 100 109 111 103 90 130 76 89 80 109 100 106 122 100 200 121 100 100 106 105 96 99 Emma Berry Elsie Weber Jane Reynalds Frances Kelland Elizabeth Burnett Elizabeth Brower Ruth B. Turman Donna Lechthaler Elizabeth L. Jacobs Zola Larsen Margaret Krey Alta Wicks Lucille A. Switzer Katherine Duke Florence M. Fitzgerald Eva Bane Maria Eaton Ann E. Savard Lillian E. Clawson Sarah E. Dana Mabel Arnold Ellen Burt Sarah S. Dana Grace Leidsen Bernice Geddes Ruby J. Lyman Verda H. Chalk Ruth J. Nielson Neta W. Young Donna Black Naomi Summerville Amy S. Black Basalt 53 Firth 70 Goshen 70 Jameston 44 Kimball 21 Shelley First 90 Shelley Second 79 Shelley Third 65 Taylor. & Woodville 55 Smithfield Stake Smithfield First 87 Snowflake Stake Claysprings 23 Flagstaff 52 Joseph City 61 Lakeside 41 Pinedale 24 Woodruff 28 So. Bear River Stake 476 Deweyville 55 Elwood 41 Penrose 15 Thatcher 39 Tremonton First 133 Tremonton Second 105 Evans Branch 24 Promontory Branch 1 So. Box Elder Stake 630 Brigham City First 104 Brigham City Second 108 Brigham City Fifth 100 53 103 71 53 30 99 80 63 35 56 70 21 40 60 39 18 22 404 41 42 19 30 121 87 28 15 549 87 117 104 100 147 101 120 143 110 101 97 106 102 80 91 77 98 95 75 79 85 75 102 127 gf 91 83 117 125 87 84 108 104 Thelma Hoskins Florence Hanny Thelma Rainston Eva Burke Florence E. Gifford Viola Peterson Thelma Howell Areta Van Eps Pearl Clark Edna Kotter HONOR ROLL Jessie Littledike Ruby Hancock Martha W. Thomas Gladys McLaws Annie H. Kay Jane M. Jackson Zella S. Turley Eva B. Hansen Pearl Perry Janusine N. Peterson Lena M. Jensen Sylvia W. Dunn Lena White Lillian Barfus Eliza G. Holland Janice W. Nichalos Edith Baddley Artie H. Sessions Ezma L. Knudson Myrtle Clifford 339 Relief Society ment Brigham City Sixth 99 Mantua 54 South Carolina Stake Gaffney 19 Spartanburg 19 Augusta Branch 15 Darlington Branch 14 Winnsboro Branch 6 South Davis Stake 841 Bountiful First 129 Bountiful Third. A7 Bountiful Fourth 100 South Bountiful 80 So. Idaho Falls Stake 433 Ammon 114 Idaho Falls Third 115 Idaho Falls Eighth " So. Los Angeles Stake 888 Downey 95 Grant. 53 Huntington Park 85 Manchester 98 Matthews 117 Maywood 114 Miramonte 43 South Gate 104 Vermont 74 Walnut Park 105 South Ogden Stake 693 Ogden Ninth 87 EnrollSubscriptions No. 76 54 19 15 17 Ww Pct. | 100 100 79 113 121 100 nS 105 82 94 99 83 88 79 101 134 105 130 124 129 134 111 177 224 146 107 95 86 Magazine Representative Roma Thorson Verile N. Anderson Ila Black Elizabeth Noblin Thelma P. Mills Wilma Honney Lula Reynalds Genevieve Gardner Anna Bangerter Reeve B. Hill LoReta Riley Mrs. Ralph Argyle Valeria Blotter Leda Jones Nell Crowther Lois Kirby Nancy M. Rupp Letha Henricksen Betty Gleason Rhea Warren Irene Bracken Josie Newey Shara Bullard Anna Struhs Marie De Spain Violet Trip Delpha Watson Loretta Cramer Lillie Wangsgard Enrollment Coeur D'Alene Branch 23 Sandpoint Branch 23 Star Valley Stake Etna 49 Fairview 58 Thayne 63 Turnerville Branch 10 Relief Society Sugar House Stake 783 Bryan 112 Emerson 148 Hawthorne 114 Marlborough 136 Richards 114 Sugar House 159 Summit Stake Hoytsville 48 Upton 10 Wanship 28 Taylor Stake 543 Magrath First 87 Magrath Second 71 Raymond First a Raymond Second 63 Raymond Third 60 Raymond Fourth 56 Welling av Coutts Branch 11 Tyrell's Lake Branch 11 Temple View Stake Sixth-Seventh 5/7 Subscriptions No. 20 21 37 52 62 ret. 87 91 76 90 98 90 102 103 101 100 106 102 101 79 100 75 93 98 113 86 95 120 91 109 82 200 91 Magazine Representative Emma Masten. Wilma M. Marshall Vera Roberts Maud Rauzenberg Leta Coffman Myrtle Turner Melissa K. Wallace Catherine Sipkema Liahona Smith Lena Draney ~ Hazel Holmquist Vera Schmitt Orlena Christensen Blanche Crittenden Phyllis Staley Fawn W. Smith Grace B. Fletcher Maysie B. Toomer Grace B, Fletcher Minnie B. Litchfield Iva M. Jensen Esther J. Anderson Violet Christensen Anna Wilde Della Rodgers Clara E. Selk Elizabeth Keachie 340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Ogden Fourteenth Ogden Eighteenth Ogden Twenty-sixth 88 88 105 Ogden Twenty-seventh 55 Ogden Twenty-eighth 112 Ogden Thirty-fourth South Weber Uintah 81 42 35 South Salt Lake Stake 528 Burton Central Park Granite Park Haven Miller North Central Park South Gate South Sanpete Stake Ephraim South Sterling South Sevier Stake Annabella Joseph South Summit Stake Marion Woodland 85 48 41 65 56 44 97 103 Ze 56 42 31 41 Southern Arizona Stake Binghampton Whitewater Wilcox Spokane Stake Spokane Central 72 36 7 56 90 122 498 83 102 116 149 124 100 Lenna Singleton Marie B. Wagner Ethel S. Lowe Josephine L. Swensen Margaret Williams Luella Brown Lavern J. Poll (Pres.) Kathleen Combe Hedy T. Davies Martha Reinhold Vida Fillmore LaRue Kevern Floyce Humpherys Bernice Roberts Alice Frandsen Mary M. Cashland Clarissa T. Hansen Malinda P. Jensen Lucy C. Gleave Ruby Baker Melba Beal Francell Gines Louisa Done Marcia Cathcart Lenore Duncan Nellie N. Bliss Teton Stake Bates 25 Cache 20 Cedron 20 Darby 21 Jackson 37 Tetonia 37 Timpanogos Stake 479 Grove 73 Lindon 79 Manila 56 Pleasant Grove First | Pleasant Grove Second 102 Pleasant Grove Third 78 Tooele Stake Stockton 30 Tooele First 95 Tooele Fifth 105 Tooele Sixth 14 Vernon 24 Twin Falls Stake 494 Buhl 60 Kimberly 52 Murtaugh 37 Twin Falls First 81 Twin Falls Second 69 Twin Falls Third 73 Twin Falls Fourth 62 Filer Branch 30 Uintah Stake 696 Ashley 45 Glines 45 Ny 18 21 21 45 28 378 59 61 52 70 77 59 23 75 95 27 21 450 49 54 31 70 76 74 52 23 555 40 38 108 90 105 100 122 76 79 81 77 93 77 75 76 77 79 90 193 88 91 82 104 84 86 110 101 84 v7 | 80 89 84 Julia J. Riplinger Grace E. Higley Leatha Kunz Eva Hillman Beth Robertson Hattie Hatch Geneva W. Warnick Ida Pierson Ella Smith Thelma Freeman Ida Williamson Lucinda Pearce Ardena Atwood HONOR ROLL Elva Benson Bessie S. Kemp Mabel Dalton LaDean J. Long Bessie Anderson Goldie Tolman Johanna Jensen Nadene Stanger Geneva Mayes Lenore Carroll Mabel Judd Vera Holland Bertha Bolton Willa Hepworth Elsie M. Palmer Annie Morrison Effie Halfeltz 341 Relief Society Jensen Maeser Tridell Vernal First Vernal Second Vernal Third Bonanza Branch Union Stake Baker Imbler La Grande First La Grande Second Pendleton Union Halfway Branch Utah Stake Park Provo Third Provo Fourth Provo Sixth University Uvada Stake Pioche Hiko Branch 'Ursine Branch Wasatch Stake Center Charleston Daniels Heber First Enrollment 54 76 40 73 81 69 10 412 59 28 93 77 39 49 10 442 58 138 63 85 98 Subscriptions No. 44 60 34 70 62 77 19 392 101 Pct. Bi 79 85 96 77 112 190 Magazine Representative Amelia Ainge Marie Johnson Vergie Behrman Arlene Chivers Pearl Winder Alice Billings LaMar Richens Texy J. Weimer Sadie Shelton Lee Ellen Coe Lillie Waldrop Lydia Feik Belle Eriksen Erma Badger Wilmerth Ward Bertha Memmott Levine Wright Esther Hurst Hilda K. Daniels Jane B. Evans Leda Law Hertha Kroencke Jewel Hansen Elva Hollinger Mildred Lawrence Phyllis Christensen Zina Ritchie Ina Orgill LaPreal McKnight Enrollment Relief Society Herriman 50 Riverton First 67 Riverton Second 94 South Jordan 133 West Pocatello Stake 588 Arbon 17 Pocatello First 81 Pocatello Fifth 100 Pocatello Ninth 86 Pocatello Tenth 129 Pocatello Eleventh 94 West Utah 405 Pioneer 65 Provo Second 90 Provo Eleventh 70 Rivergrove 100 Sunset 80 Woodruff Stake Hilliard 14 Yellowstone Stake 659 Ashton 76 Egin Bench 59 Marysville $2 St. Anthony First 82 Twin Groves 31 Wilford 55 Kilgore Branch 24 Young Stake 351 Kirtland 68 Redmesa. 34 Subscriptions No. 67 56 86 109 563 19 66 80 86 114 147 325 51 Pct. 134 84 91 82 96 112 81 80 100 88 156 80 78 88 81 78 75 129 79 101 78 122 105 77 80 125 81 101 82 Magazine Representative Agnes Dansie Eliza Reynolds Blanche Myers Elsie J. Merrill Reta C. Austin Colleen Bailey Emma Hurst Ione Slayden Eva Richardson Ethel Morgan Hattie Tolman Cleo L. Thatcher Ella Wilkins Zelma H. Halladay Ruby Peay Eva Ricks Lillie M. Cambell Lucille Brown Leona E. Lords Berthie Baker Fanny Hunter Marjorie Gunter Ada Christensen Nelle Bowen Beulah Willyerd Hedwig Hirschi Lois F. Palmer Lois F. Palmer Veda Walker (Pres.) 342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Heber Second Heber Third Heber Fourth Midway First Midway Second Wallsburg Washington Stake Washington Wayne Stake Grover Branch Weber Stake Ogden First Ogden Eleventh Ogden Nineteenth Weiser Stake Letha Nyssa Second Ontario Payette Vale Weiser Cascade Branch Fruitvale Branch Sweet Branch Wells Stake Ivins McKay Waterloo Wilson West Jordan Stake Bingham 98 76 551 54 34 90 Ks 52 52 18 6 14 6871, 107 114 98% 71 588 69 88 76 78 88 79 90 81 113 106 85 84 100 75 93 78 95 110 78 77 77 101 Mary Moulton Margaret E. Callister Verna Hicken LaNeva Averett Margaret C. Kelly Ethel Batty Effie Thompsen Joy Clark Robena Harris Viola M. Royle Edith D. Anderson Fannie Chandler Ann A. Jensen Hazel Hunter Myrtle Wilburn Fern Roberts Avis Belnap Lucille Chandler Clara McMurdie Irene Burt Miss Gean Robison Mabel E. Wood Beatrice Ford Mrs. J. W. Stoker Jennie Waldram Myrtle Wennhold Olivia M. Egbert Hazel J. Robison Cortez Branch Kline Branch Zion Park Stake LaVerkin Rockville Toquerville MISSIONS Australian Adelaide Glen Huon Hurstville Nambour Perth California Arizona Ajo Chino Valley Miller Valley Wickenburg Bakersfield Delano East Bakersfield Oildale Taft Wasco Coachella Valley Indio Palm Springs Colorado River Blythe 20 250 1004 149 45 26 960 127 136 113 100 118 100 120 157 100 135 Carmen Tanner Ida Eaton Vilate Hardy Mary H. DeMille Edythe Klingersmith HONOR ROLL Blanche K. Richmond Betty McCarthy Marjorie Watson Florence Wardingly Leila Atkinson Eunice Compton Vivian R. McConkie Marva Kinateder Tressie Harpool Ita Turley (Pres.) Frances Peterson Evelyn White Margaret S. Taylor Juanita Brooks Alfrieta B. Mayes Lily H. Davies Belva Stanfield Rae Hager Miriane Hale Hilda Goff 343 Nora McCuen Relief Society Yuma Imperial Valley Brawley El Centro Las Flores Lompoc Paso Robles San Luis Obispo Santa Maria Mount Whitney Bishop Independence Lone Pine Ridgecrest Trona Mojave Desert Barstow Lancaster Oak Creek Ash Fork Camp Verde Oak Creek Verde Valley San Gorgonio Hemet Santa Barbara Oxnard Santa Barbara Santa Paula South Coast Enrollment 27 39 18 21 3 8 13 29 Za 81 18 9 7 21 20 28 i "4 11 61 Subscriptions No. 22 47 ye 20 72 10 12 24 26 76 14 10 A 27 16 42 14 15 110 Pct. 81 121 150 95 99 125 92 83 113 94 78 111 100 129 80 150 117 136 87 100 100 100 90 80 97 99 89 139 110 116 Magazine Representative Cora Rogers Irene Wadell Dorothy Layton Reta Johnson Shirly Staffanson Maureene Chrisman Leah P. Godfrey Lydia B. Triplett Addie Smith Lois Taylor Leona Pendleton Alpha Budke Delma Werle Laura Corbridge Minnie B. Conklin Della Guymon (Pres.) Elizabeth Merwin Clesta Dunbar June Calhoun Nancy Hight Larene Petersen Mariam A. Robinson Reva Kribbs Frances E. Peck Myrtle Altman Eileen Godbey Iva Tripp Elizabeth C. Anderson Enrollment Springfield 16 Stillwater 19 South Independence 28 Tulsa 20 Relief Society West Wichita 19 East Central States 424 Boldman 10 Bradfordsville 17 Cabin Creek 12 Charleston 45 Cumberland 5 Fairmont 8 Franklin 8 Lexington 16 Logan iv Martin 36 Memphis 24 Oak Ridge 9 Parkersburg 9 Richardsville 10 Eastern States Albany 10 Buffalo 15 Canandaigua 8 Erie 11 Niagara Falls 18 Palmyra 18 Philadelphia 40 Pittsburg 20 No. 20 16 21 21 20 368 Subscriptions Pct. 125 84 75 105 105 87 100 106 117 113 140 113 263 100 118 103 104 89 89 100 90 113° 138 109 83 78 83 90 Magazine Representative Joyce Franklin Clara V. Nelson Gwendolyn Reed R. Darlene Thompson - Rosie Thompson Hilda M. Richards Wilda Duvall Nellie Tungate Virginia Thacker Emma Atkinson Mrs. Glen L. Lewis May Sloter Alice B. Hartman Grace Wells Ida Clemens Della Stephens Reba Sims Iva Mae Posey Agatha Garvin Geneva Childers Emma Barton Louise Winspear Florie W. Reddlesworth Madeline Scott Tessa M. Udy Grace Bump Helen S. Lindsey Virginia Birtcher 344 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Carlsbad Escondido Fallbrook Laguna Beach San Dieguito i 'Canadian Brantford Kitchener Ottawa Stratford Central States Arkansas City Barney Claytonville Dodge City East St. Louis East Wichita El Dorado Fort Sill Gideon Hayti Independence North Joplin Junction City Kansas City No. 2 Larned Mexico Miami North Sidney Oklahoma City Sedalia 26 28 20 we 14 60 wn 130 108 118 138 88 80 83 75 120 75 100 80 95 100 100 96 82 100 100 75 89 100 90 138 80 100 75 161 100 Violet Williams Ruth Harris Lela A. Reed Marie Rolson Molly Hansen Gladys M. Meek Patricia Steinmetz (Sec.) Eva E. Musson Donna White Clara McDonald Ada A. Fridell Mary M. Shumard Willie Pratt Kanipe Hazel Lawson Ida Lovelace Ethel Hoffman Stella Mann Pauline Britton Mary Emily Juanita Shivley Carrie Snyder Pauline Slight Elsa Webb Nan Thompson Mrs. G. A. Schmidt Mary Emily Wilma Lindsey Grace Furnell Reading Rochester Sunbury Washington Wilmington New England States Bath Burlington Concord Fall River Framingham Halifax Hartford Nashua New Haven New London South Royalton Springfield North Central States South Minnesota Austin Yellowstone Lewistown Sumatra Miles City Duluth Fargo OO WINOMATOtT TI rm 14 12 NN FTOMMHAMOM OO: rt re —_= 10 12 120 117 260 120 133 113 79 111 100 100 Pearl D. Yeager Helen Boas Irene Hile Hazel Danley Beatrice C. Stirland Sara Hyde Mildred Shortsleeve Jennie Anderson Thelma Dube Eva Harris Ruth Robar Belva Strople Itol B. Clough Phyllis Cannon Lorraine Lee Sadie Whitcomb Irene Wrigley Maude I. Wigant Louise McLaughlin (Pres.) Gladys W. Savage (Pres.) Leah B. Nielson (Pres.) Margaret E. Hallgren Lillian Evelyn Schoeler HONOR ROLL 345 Relief Society Fort Frances Gettysburg Grand Forks Sioux Falls Northern California Fresno District East Fresno Merced Klamath Falls Mt. Hebron EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. M iv Se igs 12 171 a & Oo ON CO 108 116 107 26 By) 24 33) ES 7 7 100 Monterey Bay District Sunnyvale Redwood Arcata Hydesville Rouge River Etna Santa Rosa Lakeport Petaluma Sebastopol ° Sequoia Avenal Porterville Shasta Orland Willows Northern States Central Indiana 13 13 +100 19 17 89 13 10 77 12 13 108 10 13-130 8 14 175 9 8 89 12 10 83 20. «7 85 11 13-118 10 9 90 747 77 144 113 78 Indianapolis North 31 31 ~=100 248 © Magazine _ Representative Ethel Shine Mildred Sandberg Lottie Lehew Mabel Juber Verna G. Christofferson Georgia Markow Harriet Moulton Julia Andrus Arlean Miner Helen Goodman Dollie M. Allen Marie Johnson Maud Pearson Alice Elphick Helen Lohman Lela B. Burt Elizabeth Rogers Mary Parker Martha M. Nelson Elna P. Haymond Ellen R. Clayton Miss Alice Coffey Enrollment Grand Rapids 16 Relief Society Jackson 15 Lansing 19 Saginaw 7 Wisconsin 72 Eau Claire 9 Lyndhurst 11 Rhinelander 11 Sheboygan 6 Northwestern States 1765 Anchorage 28 Fairbanks 14 Grays Harbor 8 Juneau 12 Kellogg-Wallace 9 Priest River 5 Winlock 12 Bend 92 Bend 32 Prineville 14 Redmond 15 Butte Bozeman 10 Dillon 22 Helena 27 Corvallis 87 Albany 10 Corvallis 30 Lebanon 16 Newport 6 Sweet Home 13 Subscriptions No. 17 16 21 11 60 13 18 11 Pct. 106 107 111 157 83 144 164 100 100 78 96 114 113 117 100 220 92 a 81 114 80 170 132 107 86 100 93 88 117 92 Magazine Representative Eleanor R. V. Anderson _ Norma Wilson Elmira Eyre Dolene Le Guire Hazel M. Branham Luella Schroeder Selma Hoffman Chloe Sparks Norma Kussow Georgina F. Richards Cora McCarrey Merlene Anderson Bernice A. Dale Ella A. Belcher Ruby Eichert Myrtle Biggs Tina Foreman Latovi Harris Lucy Howard Wilma Booth Irene Butler Irene Buttleman Myrtle L. Wallace Pearl Merrill Idell B. Lee Joan Lee Lucile Hardman Dollie Whitmore Anna Oldham Sylvia Anderson 346 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Indianapolis South Central Ohio Springfield East Iowa Bonaparte East Michigan Ann Arbor Pontiac Toledo North Illinois Elgin Galesburg Peoria Tri-Cities North Indiana Fort Wayne North Ohio Alliance Cleveland South Illinois Bloomington Champaign Clinton Decatur Springfield Quincy South Indiana Terre Haute South Ohio Cincinnati West lowa Des Moines West Michigan 51 60 109 100 113 100 125 100 145 131 107 167 144 100 85 75 110 88 91 Lena Liggett ' Helen Y. Page Valorie Detillion Sue Ferguson Lucille McClelland Louise Beauchamp Florence Schultz Rena P. Custer Mrs. John Ekstrom Rena P. Custer Grace Diepenbroch Cleona Peterson Shirley Cunningham Beth Price Mrs. Floyd Randall Hazel Robison Mary L. Stewart La Nora Bingham Delores P. Sleight Lettie Crews Freda Belle Dial Johanna Meissner Anna Burrows Ramona Simpkins Elizabeth Hoopes Adeline Taylor Eliza Christiansen Sophia Busby Gordon Great Falls Bynum Conrad Fort Benton Golden Ridge Simms McMinnville Hillsboro McMinnville Tillamook Silverton Missoula Allensdale Charlo Hamilton Polson St. Ignatius Stevensville Northern Montana Chinook Cut Bank Harlem Shelby Oregon Beaverton Oregon City The Dalles Washougal Rainier Auburn Buckley Southern Oregon Junction City Wenatchee 115 123 104 77 126 100 86 82 86 88 88 96 143 89 86 131 84 107 80 100 109 95 104 118 87 80 86 129 75 82 100 81 100 90 Bea Payne Ivy Stott June Judy Maxine McDede Leah Eddington Sara Robbins Erma R. Fox Vera E. Larsen Mrs. J. S. Winfield Lydia Dick Sarah Farnsworth Bernice L. Allen Ester B. Swainston Edith Neilson Venetta Brower Georgia Pierce Ruby Blodgett Olga Blatter Alice Maddox Nelly M. Johnson Deyan Hulse Erva Budd Lucille Jones Vanda Marchant Velma Page Maude L. Dean Aletta Adams (Sec.) Arvilla Loomis Iida Hooper Naomi B. Monson HONOR ROLL 347 Enrollment Coulee Dam 10 Leavenworth 7 Moses Lake 25 Quincy-Ephrata 11 Wenatchee 29 Yakima Hermiston 13 Pasco-Kennewick 26 Toppenish 23 Relief Society South African Ramah 6 Springs 7 Pretoria 13 Southern States 1042 Alabama 49 Azalia City 16 Bayou La Croix 6 Lamison 11 North Alabama McCalla 10 Central Florida 142 Belleview 9 New Smyrna Beach 5 Orlando 18 Ozona 6 Sarasota 4 St. Petersburg 4 Tampa 35 Subscriptions No. Pct. 10 100 9 129 22 88 14 127 27 93 12 92 28 108 23 ~=100 oF 159 1 11 85 784 75 43 88 12 75 5 83 9 82 12 128 122 86 if 78 5 100 19 106 5 83 6 150 4 100 33 94 Magazine Representative Leona Hickman Dorna M. Love Rhoda W. Cobia Esther Hatch Pauline M. Baird Mabel Oman Vera L. Warfield Georgiana D. Willard Jean D. Wright ' (Pres.) Jean D. Wright (Pres.) Jean D. Wright (Pres.) Rula W. Choules Arcolla Dewitt Effie Cotton Ellen E. Ladner Effie Stockman Mrs. S. J. Vining J. Marie Moore Arizona Scott Lucy J. Michael Elizabeth Kimball Irene Butler Anna Hodges Epie Wooten Ethel R. Jainer Enrollment Denmark 4 West South Carolina Aiken 6 Relief Society Texas-Louisiana East Texas Kelsey 28 Tyler 7 North Central Texas 89 Fort Worth 27 North Texas 23 Amarillo 5 Lubback 7 South East Texas 154 Bay City 5 Beaumont 4 Houston 51 Orange 7 Silsbee 13 Velasco 10 Williamson 29 South Texas 96 Center Point 12 San Antonio 26 Victoria 6 West Texas Monahans 18 North Louisiana 131 Alexandria 6 Many 23 Monroe 18 Natchitaches 19 Subscriptions No. Pct. 100 83 Magazine Representative Pauline Morris Clarice Hoyt Leone R. Bowring Sarah Chevalier Leona Bell Annie S. Poll Lydia Swanson Luella R. Hansen Ruth M. Ray Grace Miller Sadie O. Clark Mrs. George D. Wainner Darlene James Pauline Dietrick Mrs. Clark Barrett Helen Hake Mrs. K. A. Johnston Epsie Wright Louise R. Turley Levon Havens Adda Lee Smith Mavanee Routt Muriel C. James Alice W. Belisle Margaret P. Jackson Elouise Anders Martha Tucker Clara A. Methain 348 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Winter Haven West Florida Bristol Olive Panama City Georgia Athens Atlanta East Point Empire Gibson Macon Milledgeville Georgia-Florida Douglas Moultrie Perry Quitman Valdosta South Georgia Brunswick Jesup Ridgeland Savannah Mississippi Columbia Liberty Red Star Sand Hill North Mississippi Senatobia South Carolina Bennettsville 150 100 150 95 101 83 100 250 120 100 132 83 100 82 88 80 125 109 122 100 129 111 100 77 81 86 125 100 Virginia Dicks L. V. Adams Julie Mae Kennedy Mrs. H. L. Lindsey Florence Caroline Wilson Myrtle Dixon Mrs. Zola Morrison Geneve Dubrawski Mizzie Fordham Vera Thigpen Lena Mae Stuckey Alice Quinn Rachel Roberts Mildred Barlow Tathe R. Brown Mildred B. Gines Betty Carley Bertha Carley Elsie Lee Boone Thelma Massey Vivian Lowther Alberta Clifton Otilla K. Griner Katie Blalock Katie Smith Hettie McLain Lillie G. Floyd Eunice Rainwater Rosepine Shreveport Zylks South Louisiana Albany Baton Rouge Gonzales New Orleans Pride Western States West Colorado Craig Delta Fruita Glenwood Springs Grand Junction Meeker Montrose Paonia Rifle West New Mexico Gallup Hot Springs Santa Fe Wyoming Casper Ft. Washakie Rawlins Riverton Monte Vista North Platte Rapid City Roswell Sidney 812 254 691 297 111 100 153 100 93 125 183 106 105 89 85 117 103 127 117 125 163 83 113 91 91 116 100 214 88 129 113 88 80 105 86 100 125 133 Maggie Cline Evelyn Rains Nora Gibson Ida Ficklin HONOR ROLL Leila Traylor Elsie P. Marchand Grace N. Nical Gertrude Aucain Mildred M. Dillman Lula Dunsdon Eva M. Pace Lillian Vincent Lena Elizondo Leah Bair Arva M. Allgood Laree Cook Afton Holt Louva H. Carter Iris Whitt Ruth Sherman Martha Burris Alta Jordon Verla L. Smith Phyllis Heaton Irentse Enos Lucile G. Butterfield Lucille M. Jensen Sewins Hart Vera M. Combs Mabel Thomas Eulalia Randolph Idona Richins 349 350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Shirt Hangers ina Giff of Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustrated by Elizabeth Williamson ON'T spoil that perfectly pressed skirt by folding it over an old wire hanger! 'Three snap clothespins tacked to the crosspiece of an ordinary wooden coat hanger transform it into an excellent skirt hanger. It is such a simple trick that there is no excuse for not having plenty of them. And, if your best friend doesn't know about it, fix a few for her. Enamel them in pretty colors, use a dainty "decal" or two, and the next time she has a birthday, surprise her with something she can really use. For variation, cover the clothespins with decorative sachets. Another trick is to paint the tips of the clothespins with fingernail enamel, and attach a sachet of matching color. 2——ait—2- SS: winging Grace Sayre Up where the sky holds the tallest of swings, Gay-hearted little girls spread play-dress wings; Long loops of swing rope, in a bright arc, Follow the children that swing in the park. Swing to the rooftops, swing through the trees, Golden hair sunnily catching the breeze. Julie has hair that is red with the sun, Mary's is brown as a new-baked bun, And Gloria's long braids reach out toward the town, As the wind follows playfully, up and down. Swing to the rooftops, swing with the breeze, Brown, red, or gold hair, shines through the trees. Notes From The Field Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field' in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278. See also Handbook of Instructions of Relief Society, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Fawn N. Dilworth BLAINE STAKE (IDAHO), JEROME SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS From 1914 to 1950 Front row, seated, left to right: Martina Jensen; Tryphena Cox Sidwell; Stella Thompson. Back row, standing, left to nght: Elizabeth Wray; Bertha Smith; Mary V. Tilby; Mildred Andrus. Insets, left to right: Estella Tolman Day; Eulalia S. Welch; Bertha Newman, now serving on a mission to her native country—Switzerland. Two past presidents, Susanne Ferguson and Annie Dalton are deceased. Fawn N. Dilworth is president of Blaine Stake Relief Society. Page 351 352 > ea RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Photograph submitted by Veta J. Wattaans LOST RIVER STAKE (IDAHO), CONDUCTS UNIQUE FLOWER SHOW AND ART EXHIBIT, August 19, 1949 Veta J. Waddoups, Moore, Idaho, submits a beautifully written account of several projects which the women of Lost River Stake developed into successful fruition under adverse circumstances. "Lost River Valley is located in the heart of the desert. The valley has suffered much during those years when drought ravaged her hills and vales. Until recent years the valley has been principally a livestock country.... The summers are short and the winters cold. About 1930 the Relief Society women were anxious to begin a home beautification project to add richness to their lives.... A flower show project was begun.... Women were encouraged to plant a row of flowers in their vegetable gardens.... In August of 1930 a few women traveled miles to display their flowers.... One woman brought a small bouquet of petunias to which she had carried water in a bucket all summer. Thus the annual flower show in Lost River Stake had its beginning.... Each year a few more women made the effort; each year they learned new things.... Each year the display of flowers increased. "Then it was decided to have a handicraft exhibit along with the flowers.... This event was held in a different ward each year, which necessitated the women to travel as much as thirty miles to bring their flowers and art work.... Programs of NOTES FROM THE FIELD 353 music, readings, and dancing were added. And so the project grew. Humble homes were beginning to take on new beauty with lawns and tiny gardens.... The work leaders in the stake, Marion Yorgenson and Maud Babcock, held art classes during the summer months to teach textile painting and fine handicraft arts. 'The results of these classes were also placed on exhibit at the flower show.... Last summer these women gave classes in figurine painting and approximately cone hundred pieces were painted. The total enrollment of our participating Relief Societies was 224 women. "August 19th our annual exhibit was held in the new Leslie Ward chapel.... As one entered the beautiful new building, with its newly planted lawns, and viewed the display of art work, the beautiful pieces of upholstery, the figurines, the flowers in gorgeous array and saw the ninety-five Singing Mothers in formal attire and heard their voices, one could not help recalling the tiny beginning from which this project sprang.... Drought has receded into the desert.... We feel that these projects have strengthened the faith of the women in their own 'abilities, in our Lost River Valley, and in the gospel." Elva J. Beal is president of Lost River Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Veta J. Waddoups LOST RIVER STAKE FLOWER SHOW 354 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 Photograph submitted by Lavina W. Barton EASTERN STATES MISSION, ALBANY (NEW YORK) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: chorister Audrey Gibson; theology leader Beth Taylor; Second Counselor Emma Barton. Back row: Secretary-Treasurer Betty Shaffer; President Lavina Barton; literature leader Barbara Behling; First Counselor Almira Kline. Active members Lena Turner and Ann Batchelor were absent when this photograph was taken. President Barton reports: "The members of this society represent three cities: Albany, Rensselaer, and Troy, New York. Meetings are held in the homes of the nbs and the attendance has been loyal and consistent. The Relief Society of this small branch just completed a successful branch party which included. A bazaar, bake-sale, fish-pond, program, moving pictures, and refreshments. Members, nonmembers, and missionaries all co-operated. Ninety people were present, including thirty-nine non-members of the Church." Georgia R. Livingston is president of the Eastern States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Berta Piranian PALESTINE-SYRIAN MISSION, FIRST BAZAAR HELD IN BEIRUT November 1, 1949 Left to right: Alice Inglisian; Anahit Arabian; Berta Piranian, President, Palestine-Syrian Mission Relief Society; Juliet Ouzunian, President, Beirut Relief Society. - Sister Piranian reports that this bazaar was very successful and the sisters enjoyed preparing the displays. There are nine members in the Beirut Relief Society and sixteen in Aleppo. In both branches the members of the presidencies act as visiting teachers. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 355 Photograph submitted by Letta Staples SEVIER STAKE (UTAH), RICHFIELD SECOND WARD VISITING TEACHERS ASSEMBLED AT A PARTY GIVEN IN THEIR HONOR, January 31, 1950 This ward has the distinction of having a 100 per cent record in visiting teaching for more than twenty years. Executive officers of the ward Relief Society are: President ~Vanorma Anderson; First Counselor Blanche Spencer; Second Counselor Thelma tig ler; SecretaryTreasurer Edna Haynie. Ivy C. Ashby is president of Sevier Stake Relief Society. Eae Dark in the Chrysalis (Continued from page 319) in the back, others set to work grubbing and trimming in the back yard. Edith and Linnie hurried to sort out the furniture in the upstairs rooms, rushed to town each afternoon while Grammy slept, to choose wallpaper, curtains, and furnishings, recounting their adventures and decisions to Mrs. Lewis, who was avid for every detail. Trucks came, bringing mountain soil and fertilizer. Nurseries delivered. Shrubs which were planted immediately. Workmen_ planted grass in the finely combed soil, installed a system of sprinkling, and erected trellises. The women, dizzy with wallpaper, curtains, and furnishings, hardly noticed what went on _ outside. Linnie and Edith sat up nights, poring over color schemes in advance of morning and the workmen. Painters and paperhangers stepped aside for plumbers in the upper hall. 'Tile-setters worked at night, installing a new bathroom and a shower off the kitchen. Electricians installed new appliances in the kitchen and wired outlets for the numerous lamps that blossomed all over the house. Carpets were laid from wall to wall in each room, being finished sometimes only minutes before the furniture arrived and was set in place. The clean smell of paper and paint pervaded the house. Edith dropped to bed and to sleep almost simultaneously, so weary was she, but it was a good weariness, and it brought good 356 BEAUTIFUL 3-PART AN LEMS Singing Mother R3397 R2782 Bid Me Enter In—Wilson _.20 God Painted a Picture— DeRose ___-.---------- ee nnne ene 20 I Bow My Head in Silent Prayer—McNeill, Gallop, Kremz oon nee nee 20 R3368 If God Forgot—O'Hara +20 1560 In the Garden—Miles ____.. 16 6235 Look in Mercy Upon Us— Mendelssohn 15 900 My Faith Looks Up to Mise. Mason. LS 1075 Send Forth Thy Spirit— Schuetky _ 15 2092 Somewhere, Beyond the Sunset—Ackley 16 658 Watch and Pray—Hamblen.15 MUSIC SENT ON APPROVAL Mail Orders Filled Promptly WE PAY POSTAGE We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories and records. FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH ae i: ©, MAIN STREET SALT Mt CITY 9, hd RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 sleep, unridden with dreams. She thought ruefully that it would have been more fun to go slowly, but realized that time was an important element. Her whole background had trained her to economy; now she was heady with the cost of things, had lost track long since. She looked with new eyes at Cory, immaculate at dinner as he had gone to his office in the morning. Did he realize how hard he had driven her? INNIE regaled her father with accounts of the progress, their newest plans, her lovely face radiant _ with enthusiasm. Edith was content to sit back and let her talk, proud of the girl's quick grasp of the principles of interior decoration, delighted with the ease with which the terms rolled off her tongue. "Tm not sure about that plaid room," she said once, considering prettily the paper she had brought to the table, her pencil poised at her lips. She looked so like a magazine illustration that Cory winked slyly at Edith, composing his face to respectful interest for her upward glance. A young girl in love was one of the world's masterpieces, Edith decided, a joint enterprise with a partner like Cory, the most challenging. In less than two weeks the place was completely transformed, its latent beauty dramatized fully. Edith was amazed to see the back yard as informally beautiful as the front yard was formal. The weeping birch was leafed and gracefully swept the new lawn, already thickly emerald, healthy rose shoots climbed the trellises. Small trees and shrubs formed interesting groups in the DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS corners of the lovely rock wall, blossoming pansies hugged their feet. A patio was gaily fitted with lawn furniture; comfortable deck chairs invited enjoyment of the warm May sun. A neighbor's apple tree leaned a blossom-laden branch over the rear wall. Edith caught her breath. "Like it?" Cory asked, giving her a sidelong glance. "T love it," said Edith. "It's poetic. I can readily see that Linnie is not the only artist in the family." "What's next on the list?" Cory asked. He had flushed with pleasure at her words, color creeping to the roots of his dark hair, softening his strong features. "Linnie's trousseau and wedding dress — bridesmaids' dresses, announcements, and parties." "Parties?" "Dozens of them," confirmed Edith. "All brides have them. Announcement parties, trousseau teas, and whatnot." "It's a racket," grinned Cory. "Well, Linnie wants the whole thing." "That's what I want her to have, Edith, the works." Her name slipped off his tongue as easily as if with common usage. Fidith Ashe, Mrs. Ashe, he had called her, never just the friendliness of "Edith." "Speaking of parties," he went on, "I'd like to have one—a dinner party." "A dinner party?" "Yes, some business friends. They entertain me at their homes. I have always entertained them at hotels. I guess I'd like to put on 'WOFBUCKAND:-CO PARK FREE! SHOP EASY! SAVE MORE! At your nearest Sears Store, where you'll find that GOOD QUALITY ALWAYS COSTS YOU LESS! 357 'AO At wniee — anaverage days use DIME UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 358 —_—~ All Funeral Services Are $tenographically Recortled Here is another advanced feature: The only Mortuary in Utah with 3 Chapels And here is a decided convenience: Ample Parking For all cars on our own premises. Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary 125 N. Main 3-7626 SALT LAKE CITY PRESERVE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES Have the valuable information contained therein _ readily available for easy access. Either permanent binding or magazine covers in which you can add each issue as published. The Deseret News Press 40 Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 the dog a little. Could it be managed? About next Friday?" "Of course it could," Edith assured him warmly. "Fine! For twelve people. And Edith, will you be the hostess?" "Why not Linnie?" "IT want Linnie there, of course, but I particularly want you to act as hostess. Will you do it?" "Why, I guess so. Certainly." DITH was definitely and warmly ~ thrilled as she went upstairs. _ Life, which she had thought to be all over for her, was definitely taking a new turn, one filled with excitement and interesting meaning. She dressed carefully, brushing the blueblack hair back in feathers around her face, listening with half attention to Mrs. Lewis reminisce of the old days, of her own marriage to Cory's father. Cory's hand, touching hers accidently as he helped her with his mother's wheelchair on the stairs, was like an electric shock. She was sure he felt it too, for he gave her a quick, penetrating glance that seemed weighted with unsaid things. "Daddy, Aunt Edith," said Linnie at the table, "I didn't think it was possible for me to be so happy, ever. Everything is perfect for my wedding. I dreaded for Paul and his people to come, but now I am proud of my home. I can hardly wait. I know it will all be perfect to the last detail." "Of course it will, honey. Any wedding would be perfect with you as the bride." "T love those medieval lamps on the porch, Daddy, and the house numbers. I didn't know you had such wonderful taste. Every detail DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS is perfect, thanks to you and Aunt Edith. Every inch of the place has been gone over, even Grammy's room, except your room. Why didn't you let us fix it up?" "I wanted to leave something undone, a_ psychological reason." "Why, Daddy? Please tell me," coaxed Linnie. "T don't see why not," said Cory, after a little thought. "You should be able to understand. I am going to get married." "Married?" said Linnie. A forkful of food halted abruptly halfway to her mouth. She was suddenly pale. © "Yes," Cory went on, not noticing. "I should like my wife to have at least one room left to decorate, seeing how much fun you girls have had." "Who?" said Linnie. "Who is it, Daddy? No! Don't tell me. I think I know." "Why, Linnie," said Cory in concern, for Linnie stood up. "I thought you would understand." "No, Daddy. I don't think I do," said Linnie in a clear little voice. "It is all right. It is your life. I'll get used to it. It's just that I don't think I could ever, ever—if Paul died, love somebody else." She fled swiftly toward the stairs, her slim hand to her mouth. Cory looked miserably down at his plate, Mrs. Lewis watching him apprehensively. Only Edith went on eating with great effort the lumps of tasteless food, with steady, icy fingers, as if nothing had happened, though she longed to follow Linnie, and go to her room. (To be continued) 359 Neighbor hood Margery S. Stewart Blessed are those whose lives are lived On one long shady street, Whose sheltered, well-scrubbed porches know The countless coming feet Of those who wish to borrow, And those who wish to give, Those who bring their happiness, Those needing help to live. These people walk so close to life They feel her pulses beat. Blessed are those who know the names Of every child they meet, Who break the bread of friendliness And find its savor sweet. Not for them the bitter dark Of loneliness that swells The seeking heart until it breaks Like brittle, tide-flung shells, Of him who never learned how wide A world is one retreat. RONIE JOHNSON Phone 4-4025 Same Location Since 1890 186 N Street Opposite Main Entrance City Cemetery Salt Lake City — From Near and Sar I was busy ironing last Monday, but thinking, also, about the bishop who thinks The Relief Society Magazine is sad. So I picked up a stub pencil and wrote the following verses: Someone has said our little book Is very, very sad— It brought the tears into his eyes; Now, that is very sad. These cookies are from out that book, They're good, you can't deny— Now, just another helping Of this lovely savory pie; These are pictures of the workers— Their smiling tells of joys They had in making up new clothes For needy girls and boys. Now, I can't tell you everything That's in our Magazine— But if some day I chance your way, I hope your face will beam! —Mrs. R. S. Vince Glen Huon, New Zealand The Relief Society Magazine is an important part of our home. The lessons are a source of strength and encouragement in many hours of need and are a most wonderful source of information as well as 'inspiration. The splendid articles, editorials, and also the sermons from the conference are inspirational and so helpful and make enjoyable reading. The recipes are excellent. I have tried several of them and the results were delightful. The poetry and stories bring joy from the knowledge that our Latter-day Saint women are doing some very creditable writing. The "From Near and Far" page is like a friendly handclasp among Relief Society women, and, last but not least, the reproductions of the very artistic scenic photographs both in the Magazine and on the cover bring joy not only to me, but my husband thinks they are unsurpassed in artistry and beauty. —Mrs. John Gardner, Encino, California Some time ago I read a very interesting article in the Magazine and was most enthusiastic about it. The article concerned the Latter-day Saints and their settlement in E] Paso, Texas, and about the man who was called "Villa of Mexico." ("El Paso and the Latter-day Saints," by Sadie Ollorton Clark, June 1949). This is the type of historical material which I like very much and think the information is of value to us in studying the history of our people. —Gertrude Koven Provo, Utah We enjoy the fine material which you publish each month, but we have been quite concerned over the discontinuation of the continued story "You Can Learn," (October and November 1948 and January and March 1950) by Katherine Kelly. We once lived on a farm and every issue brought back memories galore. We waited anxiously from one month to the next to read the romance and _ experiences of Katherine.... We would like very much to have this story continued, and many of our friends have mentioned the same thing. —Lucille M. Plumb, Los Angeles, California The Magazine continues to be my favorite reading. I think you should be highly commended for your fine work in editing it. —Mabel Jones Gabbott Bountiful, Utah I have been a subscriber to the Magazine for only a short time, but I must tell you how much I enjoy it. I dearly love those pieces—"A Letter From Mother."" Clara Horne Park must be a wonderful and beautiful person. I like very much the stories and poems and the articles on home decoration. I am not a member of the Church yet but belong to the Relief Society group here. —Dora Bradley Stibnite, Idaho New Releases— MAP OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS IN AMERICAN HISTORY New England, New York, Ohio, Missouri, Illinois, Iowa, Great Plains, Great Salt Lake periods of L. D. S. History and March of the Battalion. Originally $5.00 Now $2.50 Map 29" x 57"—Six Colors KNIGHT OF THE KINGDOM..___ 0..02..2.2-.----..$2.20 By CONWAY B. SONNE Adventures with faith. Career of world traveler; ardent Knight of the Kingdom—Richard Ballantyne. MELVIN J. BALLARD __ 222.22222e-ceeeeeeeeeeee$2.50 By BRYANT S. HINCKLEY Life and eloquent addresses of widely beloved apostle. India paper, gilt edge, leather editions— JESUS, THE CHRIST $7.00 ARTICLES OF FAITH. $6.00 Available also in library (cloth) editions. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City 10, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers Spring The time for planting the seed — preparing for the fall and winter ahead. The time for planning with life insurance —- preparing for the autumn and winter of our lives. INSURANCE CE) COMPANY 
