[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]
Notes from the Field. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. Cottonwood Stake. In the interest of production, conservation and preservation of food supplies, and following the example of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church, the Cottonwood stake Relief Society is offering" to its wards prizes for the greatest amount of canned and dried fruits and vegetables; $70 is the amount of money set apart for this purpose and it is to be given in prizes as follows: To the wards drying the greatest amount of fruit; 1st prize, $10; 2nd prize, $5; and 3rd prize, $2.50. The same amounts will be given in prizes for the greatest amounts of dried vegetables and canned corn. Bear River Stake. The Relief Society of Bear River Stake observed Baby Day in a very interesting way. At the Garland tabernacle, on May 23, demonstrations were given on "Preparation of Milk for the Bottle-fed Baby;" "The Baby's Bed and Bath," with an exhibit of a line of the "most approved clothing for infants ." Devices for the care and clothing of children, were also presented in comparison. Lectures were given on "The Care of Children and Instructions to Fathers." Professor C. E. Smith, principal of the Garland High School, gave a talk on "Play and Playgrounds." Appropriate musical selections were also given. As a special feature of food production, the individual members of the Bear River stake Relief Society have been requested by President Margaret W. Manning to plant beans in order that each member may 'donate one pound of dried beans to the Stake Relief Society. To those who cannot produce beans, the equivalent in money is asked for. These beans will be stored for a time of need. Salt Lake Stake.  Reorganization. The Salt Lake Stake was reorganized May 5, 1017. Mrs. Harriet C. Jensen who has for many years been counselor, then president of this organization found it necessary to tender her resignation on account of her change of residence from Salt Lake 
 City to Los Angeles. Mrs. Jensen, who is especially fitted both by nature and educational training for the position which she has occupied, has been zealous, devoted and energetic in her labors in the Relief Society cause and will be greatly missed by her associates in the work as well as by the general organization as a whole. The First Counselor. Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, equally able and equally energetic, was chosen president. The Second Counselor. Mrs. Jessie Penrose Jones was made first counselor. Miss Vilate N. Bennion. Supervisor of Home Economics, was made second counselor. Mrs. Bradford is a woman of education and broad experience. She is the wife of Professor Robert Bradford, of the University of Utah. The other stake officers are: Mrs. Amy Ball Davis, secretary; and Mrs. Rachel L. Folland, treasurer. North Weber Stake. The Metropolis. Nevada. Relief Society had a very successful entertainment on the 17th of March when the initial meeting of the Relief Society was dramatized. The setting and costumes were all in keeping with the spirit of the occasion. Pioneer Stake. The Stake Board of the Pioneer stake Relief Society, always forehanded, have some time since inaugurated public demonstrations in canning and fruit preserving, assisted by the expert from the A. C. Many of the wards have put in small and large plots of ground to beans or grain, thus showing what even city people can do when the women take a hand in conservation. Cent entitle. As a means of raising funds the Centerville Relief Society recently presented a one-act play. "How a Woman Keeps a Secret." The play was supplemented with a minstrel show and a colonial dance by eight ladies in colonial costumes. So interested I was the community in this entertainment that the house was packed, and many were unable to gain entrance. Tt was necessary, therefore, to repeat the performance. After all expenses were paid, $70 was cleared. Cassia Stake. Six wards in the Cassia stake are entering the potato contest and three the wheat contest. Other wards that were unable to enter the contest arc planting bean^. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 401 Duchesne Stake. The Relief Society of Duchesne stake has decided to put forth efforts to raise a large crop of beans. Each member will be expected to plant one quart of seed and harvest them. The beans thus benefit raised will wives of the be given and to the Relief children Society of our men who be have used for the enlisted for service in the Army. The Stake Board has offered a prize of $5 to be given to the Society whose members will dry the most peas, corn and beans for their own families. Malad Stake. was The Anniversary celebrated with a Day of the which meeting Relief was Society held of at Malad stake the Malad First Ward tabernacle, on March 17. The program consisted of an address of welcome given by Pres. Eliza A. Hall, a brief sketch of the Relief Society, by Bishop Conley. of Portage, and several musical numbers. A delightful luncheon was served to 400 guests at the close of the meeting. Yellowstone Stake. Mrs. Mary J. Miller of Parker. Idaho, first counselor to Julia E. Miller, was released early in the year from her position in the stake Relief Society, on account of being called, with her husband, to do missionary work in Australia. Before leaving for her new field of work, the Stake Board gave a complimentary luncheon to Mrs. Miller, and presented her with a token of remembrance. Mrs. Miller who has before this, arrived in Australia, is no doubt taking up, actively, the Relief Society work in that distant mission. Tear River Stake. From the Bear River stake comes the announcement of the death of Sarah Ann Nish, a devoted Relief Society worker, of Plymouth. Utah. Mrs. Nish was borne May 4, 1862, in Wehsville. Utah. Her many noble qualities and faithful work in the Relief Society have endeared her to her friends and co-workers, and they all join in expressions of sorrow and regret that she has been called from their midst. North Davis Stake. A Relief Society was recently organized at Sunset, Utah. Mrs. Mary Bowman who was appointed President is only twenty four years of age, and is probably the youngest ward president in the organization. Maine Stake. The four wards of American Fork celebrated the 17th of March at the Stake tabernacle, the program consisting of songs 
 and tableaus. The tableaus wire arranged to represent the different activities of Relief Society work. One interesting feature was the representation of President Emmeline P. Wells, by Mrs. Sarah P>. Chipman. The makeup of Sister Chipman so resembled our President, that many thought it was Mrs. Wells. St. George Stake. The women of St. George, Santa Clara and Washington Relief Societies, celebrated the organization of the Relief Society on the 17th of March, by going to the St. George temple to do ordinance work. This was the largest number of women in the temple in one day. in thirty-five years. Biographical Outline. To promote interest in genealogy. to aid those who desire to make biographical and autobiographical sketches, the St. George stake has arranged the following plan or biographical outline: The English Department in the St. George Academy is using this plan as a basis for theme writing: T. Ancestor's Nationality. a  (Father) 1 Political Affiliation, b  (Mother) 2  Religious Affiliations. IT. Joining the Church. 1  First members of the family to join. 2  Were you born before your parents joined? ITT. Journey sons.) to Utah (Parents or self, date, company, impressive. Your Childhood. 1  Birthplace. 2  Environment. 3  Childhood memories  reminiscences. V. Education. YT. Religious life. 1 First church joined. Dates. 2  Eater church affiliation. Dates. YTT. Residences  places  length of time. 1  Circumstance of journey to Utah and early life in Dixie. VIII. Life's work. 1 What it has been? 2 Has it satisfied the ideal of your childhood? 3  What things have most influenced your life? A Public positions held. 5 Occupation. IX. Present work, if living. 1 Work engaged in at time of death, if desired. X. Personal impression of biographer. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 403 California Mission  San Bernardino and Bible. The Relief Society of San Bernardino was reorganized early in May. Mrs. M. E. Patterson resigned her position as president on account of changing' her residence from California to Arizona. Mrs. Louisa Nickerson was appointed president. The change was made at a meeting which was attended by President and Mrs. Joseph Elizabeth E. Robinson," C. Wilcox, of the Mrs. Emily Board. General S. Richards, During and Mrs. the same month a new Relief Society was organized at Bisbee with Mrs. Harriet Maxwell as president and Mrs. Edna Sessions as secretary. Utah Stake. In a little pamphlet The Teacher published by the Priesthood Presidency of the Utah stake, we find the following article on Relief Society work, signed by Mrs. Martha A. Keeler, Inez K. Allen, Susie Poulson, Relief Society presidency. It contains helpful suggestions on Relief Society work that may be suggested to other organizations: "The Relief Society organization is for all women of the Latter-day Saints who desire to become members and for others who are' friendly, and certainly any woman who lets the opportunity of becoming a member pass will lose much that is enjoyable and uplifting. "We hope the teachers of the Priesthood will explain the advantage of this organization in the homes of the Saints, and some of the things which over one thousand women are doing weekly in each of their respective wards. "Tuesday of each week throughout the year a regular session is held, carrying out a definite plan and program. The first Tuesday of the month is devoted to the study of literature and some of the best books extant have been read and reviewed. Besides the literary work the teachers monthly topic is discussed, so that when our lady teachers go into the homes of the Saints they are more or less prepared to talk on some special line and present hour subject. Our teachers have a message of love and good will to all. When these visits are made contributions are received for the poor. "The second Tuesday session is a meeting for work, sewing and other handwork; as, making articles of clothing, bedding, etc.. for the need v. or making articles to sell, and the proceeds of Seles to go to the poor. Business matters that may need attention are also attended to at the work meeting: and not least of importance are the social benefits enjoyed.
