[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: The Iceless Refrigerator]

The Iceless Refrigerator. Prepared by U. S. Department of Agriculture. This refrigerator consists of a wooden frame covered with Canton flannel, burlap, or heavy duck. It is desirable that the frame be screened, although this is not necessary. Wicks, made of the same material as the covering, resting in a pan of water on top of the cooler conduct the water over the sides and ends of the pan and allow it to seep down the sides of the box. The evaporation from this moistened covering causes a lower temperature inside. On dry, hot days a temperature of 50 degrees has been known to be obtained in the cooler. This is the way to build it: Make a screened case 2/3 feet high with the other dimensions 12 by 15 inches. If a solid top is used, simply place the water pan on this. Otherwise fit the pan closely into the opening of the top frame and support it by 1-inch cleats fastened to the inside of the frame. Place two movable shelves in the frame 12 to 15 inches apart. Use a biscuit pan 12 by 14 inches on the top to hold the water, and where the refrigerator is to be used indoors have the whole thing standing in a large pan to catch any drip. The pans and case may be painted white, allowed to dry, and then enameled. A covering of white Canton flannel should be made to fit the frame. Have the smooth side out and button the covering on the frame with buggy or automobile curtain hooks and eyes arranged so that the door may be opened without unfastening these hooks. Two double strips one-half the width of each side should be sewed on the top of each side covering and allowed to extend over about 2/4 or 3 inches in the pan of water. The bottom of the covering should extend into the lower pan. TO SWEETEN BUTTER. Rancid butter is unfit for use. even for cooking purposes. But one can restore it to some degree of its original sweetness, and thereby render it fit for cooking, at least. Melt the butter. and stir into it a pinch of baking soda; remove from the fire and drop into it a piece of toasted bread. Keep the butter for ten or fifteen minutes where it will not harden, remove the bread an 1 you will be surprised at the difference in the taste of the butter.