[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Home | Title: Entertainments Home Entertainments Morag]

July Entertainment By Morag. The Fourth of July should be observed as a community holiday and patriotic exercises held. Every home should display "Old Glory." In view of the existing conditions in the country, this must be strictly a sane Fourth. Organize a community choir and sing the national song if a parade is held, let each organization represent some historical event in the history of our nation. If your ward or community desire to make some money, nothing would be prettier than to hold an army fair, with its tents, flags, and aides in brilliant costume. Tents may be pitched on the lawn or park. The tents take the place of booths or stalls. In front of each tent is a placard which gives in military parlance the name of the stall. The articles sold are appropriate to the name found at the door. Tn the commissariat all kinds of food supplies are sold. The refreshment tent is the mess room, and soft drinks and ice cream may be sold in the canteen. In the hospital tent, which is decorated with the Red Cross. all kinds of toilet supplies, home remedies and various articles for the sick room may be found. The aides may be dressed as Red Cross nurses. Here during the day practical demonstrations of first aid to the injured may be given. Devote one booth or tent to the sale of flags. Let the boy scouts patrol the grounds, and during the day, have some drink and a program of national songs, by the community choir an 1 band. Pop corn balls may be sold by the young ladies dressed in the national colors. Conclude with band concert and dancing on the green. RECIPE FOR POPCORN BALLS. Put 1 cup brown sugar. 1 cup white, l/2 cup molasses. 1 cup water, 1 tablespoon vinegar into well buttered pan. Cook without stirring until a hard ball will form when tried in water. Then add 1 tablespoon butter. Remove from fire, add pinch of soda and pour quickly over four quarts of freshly popped corn. Chill the hands in cold writer and shape the balls quickly. These HOME ENTERTAINMENTS. 389 may be wrapped in waxed paper and will sell readily for five cents each. PIONEER DAY. This, also, is a community holiday and should be celebrated by all of our people. Pageantry, parades, patriotic exercises are in order here. Be sure and sing our state song, "Utah We Love Thee." A similar affair as that suggested for the Fourth might be held, only have a country fair instead of an army one. Many of our people will spend the day in the mountains, and this is a very nice way to enjoy the day. Go as family parties. ;is neighbors, or in ward groups, old and young together and a very happy day may be spent. Many of the worlds' greatest events have taken place on or near the mountains, and the thought suggested itself for a home evening exercise. PROGRAM FOR HOME EVENING. The Mountains of the Scriptures. Assign to each member of the family one or more of the mountains; let them search the scriptures, and read from the Bible, or relate the incidents connected with Mount Ararat. Sinai. Nebo, Horeb, Lebanon, Moriah. Hermon. Mount of Olives, Calvary, Mountain of the Lord's House. Book of Mormon, "High Mountain" Ramah, (Cumorah), Zerin. Songs: "Flee as a Bird." "Home to our Mountains," "Lift Thine Eyes," "For the Strength of the Hills," etc. In some of Ruskin's books there are many wonderful word pictures of mountains. See Modern Painters. For Nebo, read "The Burial of Moses." Sister Angela Packer, of Riverdale, Oneida stake, writes tint she enjoyed the Bible menu recently published and has sent us a recipe for Scripture cake. Thanks. I am sure we will all enjoy trying it: Take AY* cups of I Kings 4:22, 1 cup of Judges. 5:25, 2 cup^ Jeremiah 6:2, 2 cups of T Samuel 30:12, 2 cups of Nahum 3:12. 2 cups of Numbers 17:8, pinch of Lev. 2:13, 3 teaspoons of 1 Samuel 14:25, of Jeremiah 17:11, JA cup of Judges 4:19. 2 teaspoons of Amos 4:56. Season to taste with 2 Chronicles  :9. BIB] E LESSONS FOR AUGUST. "His delight is in the law of the Lord, and in His law doth he meditate day and night." Doctrine and Covenants. Sections 99-131. Bible, Ruth. Chapters 1-4. President Joseph F. Smith on Card Playing. (From the Improvement Era.) A correspondent has sent a request that you say something of the position we take on card-playing. I therefore, I have written upon it, both in this magazine and others, and spoken of it many times before the congregations of the Saints. Personally, and always I am positively and insistently opposed to the Latter-day Saints playing cards, either at home, in private circles, in public, at socials or at any other gathering of the people. Our correspondent further states that he wishes to know how to meet the argument of a number of young ladies in his settlement who are or should be workers in the Sunday School and other organizations of the ward, who insist on playing cards "in their private parties or gatherings, of three or four, and so on, when they get together for an evening's visit." They argue that they just play among themselves and enjoy it: they do not play for money; they play in their own homes, 50 they are not, as they claim, setting anyone else an example outside of their own circle of friends, and for that reason cannot see where they are doing any harm. They feel, also, and have so expressed it, that "anyone who opposes them is interfering with their personal liberty." They say further "that certain persons in high standing in the community have their card parties; they nevertheless, go to meeting, and are treated as the best of people;" so that, "if it is right for these people to play cards in social parties, it can not be wrong for us in our private parties." Our correspondent further states that he has even heard of "certain high priests who play cards when they ought to be in meeting on Sunday." He wishes us to tell him how to meet the arguments of the young ladies. If there is any truth in what he says he has heard about "certain high priests," they should be dealt with for their fellowship. Tt appears to me a very simple matter to meet such arguments. It is just as painful in the sight of the Lord to do an evil secretly or in the home, as it is to do one publicly, and it has practically the same effect upon the person who does the evil act. although the evil results may not be so far-reaching as if done in public. No person can play cards, or smoke, or drink, or do any other forbidden thing, in his home. 1>\ himself or among his personal friends, without being guilty of wrong doing just as PRESIDENT SMITH ON CARD PLAYING. 391 much as if he did all these things in public. We cannot be hypocrites, and whatever we do should be worthy, of course, of being done openly and above board, if we would be effective teachers. No young lady can teach children in the Sabbath School the evils of card-playing, who plays cards in her home society, or with her personal friends. The teachings of such will have no good effect, because her heart will not be in it, and example and habit are stronger than words. The same may be said of every other person including "high priests," and "certain persons in high standing." I have stated heretofore why I hold that card-playing is wrong. In the first place, it results in the useless waste of valuable time; secondly, the practice leads to the public card table, thence to the saloon, to gambling, and to ruin and shame. These facts can be easily demonstrated by the history of men who have time and pleasure in their private homes; but who have gradually become infatuated  crazed  with it, and left the home, and taken up with companions who have easily led them from cardplaying for fun or amusement, to playing cards for money and intoxicating drink, which, of course, most certainly leads to destruction am I absolutely opposed to playing cards in homes, in social gatherings, privately or publicly, and this applies as much to those our correspondent calls "certain persons in high standing," as it does to the young lady or the young man who is or should be teaching in the Sabbath Schools even in the remotest village or community in the Church. SOCIAL FAMILY MEETINGS. By Morag. Here is a hint I should like to pass on. The sisters of one of our large families have set aside one day a week on which they meet at the home of one of their number and sew. In this way a great deal is accomplished, for one has a talent for plain sewing, another a knack in embroidery and fancy work while another is a genius for making over, and one has that dainty milliner's touch. The hostess of the day furnishes the refreshments and the work, and as many hands make light work, very happy results follow. The sisters keep in close, loving touch with each other, are well dressed, avoid large dressmakers' bills, help one another, and keep alive that interest in each other's welfare that should exist amongst us. A group of friends or schoolmates, 01 as in one group T know, of cousins, or even neighbors, might try this plan to good advantage.