th it a greatly increased consumption of alcoholic liquors, and an annual economic waste of more than six billions of dollars. That means that there will gradually be fewer and fewer men who are able to get to the top in the industrial world. That casts upon the people of the Church, and upon you sisters, the responsibility and the opportunity to see to it that through proper education, teaching and directing of moral forces, your sons and your daughters shall be amongst those who are prepared for the highest places in the industrial world. There are more than 12,000 homicides every year in the United States. A million persons are committed to penal institutions in the United States every year. More than thirteen billions of dollars is the cost of crime in the United States every year. Every year financial crimes alone, such as larceny and embezzlement and forgery cost the United States five billions of dollars. It is wholly impossible to count the cost of crime, or to accurately determine what proportion of it is chargeable to the use of alcoholic liquors. It has been said by students, as I have quoted to you, that 50% of the crimes of our Nation are traceable directly or indirectly to the use of alcoholic liquors. Whether that is an exaggeration, I do not know, but when you contemplate the tremendous financial, physical, mental, and moral impairment, when added to detrimental values, it is apparent that the use of alcoholic liquors is calling for a tremendous financial drain upon the people of the United States, and of course upon the people of the world, but the physical, and the mental, and the spiritual cost of alcohol cannot be measured. The loss of opportunities which come to and are lost to our people because of the use of alcohol cannot be measured, and the loss in shattered hopes and the loss in broken hearts, and the loss in broken wills, and the loss in broken homes, and the economic waste, cannot be measured. The by-products of alcoholic uses, and the suffering they cause, and the dreadful consequences that follow, cannot be measured. As I reflected upon what I should say this afternoon, I sat down to write some notes to refresh my memory, and there came into my office, while I wrote, a woman asking for a divorce, and the whole ground for the divorce was because the man had transferred his affections from his family to alcohol. I mention this simply as a type of the cases that are coming before the courts all the time. There is not a week passes when, in our own communities, homes are not broken, when ties are not severed between husband and wife, between father and children, making repair impossible, because of alcohol, and yet some people who advocate its use have the audacity to say that it is a beverage or a food, and therefore its use is justified. We must teach our children that 50% of alcohol is water; that 91% of beer is water; that 4% of beer is alcohol and 5% is decomposed vegetable matter. Our young people must be made to understand that alcohol affects different people in different ways. It affects the senses differently. It breaks down safeguards, encourages sinful card playing, promotes gambling and immodesty, and destroys the probability of passing through life morally clean, and our young people, and you sisters, are charged with the responsibility through the Church and through this great organization, and by all legitimate methods, to take to your own families, and to the families of your communities, educational training and development, showing how the use of alcohol destroys the home and the individuals within the home, and can bring nothing but remorse and unhappiness and discontent and the loss of hope to those who are given to its use. It is a challenge to intelligence. John Ruskin said, "Education does not mean teaching people what they do not know, but causing them to behave as they do not now behave," and so our young people in our homes and in our societies must be trained to act differently than they have acted in the past, before this terrible blight fastened its fangs upon them and upon the society in which they dwell and amongst which they live. It is not necessary to exaggerate facts. There is sufficient truth. There are sufficient examples about us. We have history to draw from, and all the experience of mankind is that the use of alcohol has brought no happiness, and has always resulted in disease, and so I say we do not need to exaggerate the evils of the use of alcohol. We ought to open our eyes to the world about us. We ought to be militant. We ought not to yield because of false cries about hypocrisy and individual liberty. The very first effect of alcohol is to bring about a deception, and it works a deception upon the man who uses it. In these modern times, when our morals are being tried to the very core, beyond the inclination of many to resist, and our young people, many of them, are casting off the standards of our fathers, necessarily there must be aggressive action upon the part of those who have old-fashioned ideas as to morals and honesty and physical development and financial success. The cry of so-called "broadmindedness"?actually?condonation of sin?must not be permitted to thwart the purposes of the Lord, and temperance is God's plan. We can adapt our educational program to all grades of people. It must be taught to the little ones. It must be taught to you. It must be taught to the middle-aged, and there is no place in life where this teaching can be deferred. It is the responsibility of the well-founded people of the Church, of those who have their feet on the ground, to go into their respective communities and to see to it that no boy or girl is led into these forbidden paths ignorantly. If our people waste their lives they ought to do it through their own rebellion against the principles for which we give our whole energies. Teach the desire for physical strength, and for clearness of mind, and for dependability and for success. They should be taught to earn success by skill and judgment and faithfulness, and should cultivate a high degree of behavior, and they cannot attain this great excellence through the use of alcohol. Teach youth to cultivate positive behavior. Before Prohibition moral suasion was the only remedy that we had and now we revert back to the moral suasion plan. It is imperative that we marshal our forces at this time, when liquor can be so easily gotten, when it is comparatively cheap. We must meet the problem with renewed effort and with renewed energy. The time will come when the pendulum will swing back again. The people of this great land will not forever permit their homes to be broken. They will not forever be content to see the bodies of the men and of the women of the nation broken. The pendulum will swing back again, but until that day comes the responsibility rests upon you to see to it that Alcohol Education is made an institution in every home in the communities where you live, and in your own families and in the families of your friends and of your neighbors. The sons and daughters of the Church are the prizes for which we labor. God bless you and strengthen you that you may be fired with an enthusiasm that shall become so great a pain unto you that it shall stimulate you and fire you with a relentless desire to bring into the mind of every boy and girl, and man and woman in your communities a realization of the evils that follow the use of intoxicating liquors. May God help us that we may be saviors of both civil and ecclesiastical institutions, as well as of the people, I pray in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.
ADDRESS Counselor Kate M. Barker
In our complex life today we are constantly facing new problems. We must choose which of many purposes in life will prove the most satisfactory. With our limited understanding we cannot safely decide such important questions alone. Never did man need more desperately the help of a loving Father. The world needs more religion. Religion is "a way of life" and thus becomes the responsibility of the home. Our Relief Society project "Back to the Scriptures" is a home project?parents and children together catching the spirit of the great truths of experience which have been tested through the ages, and building them into their life today. New ages bring new tests, but the fundamental truths of life remain the same. The core of Jesus' teachings are as true today as when He taught in Palestine. Matthew Arnold says, "To the Bible men will return because they cannot do without it; because happiness is our aim, and happiness belongs to righteousness, and righteousness is revealed in the Bible." Our problem in the home is?how can we get our young people to appreciate the Bible and go to it for inspiration and guidance. We must remember we are teaching the child and not the book and select the messages in accordance with the needs and experiences of those to be taught. Of greatest importance is the idea a child gets of God. It does no good to urge love of God. Love does not come as a duty. It comes spontaneously because of appreciation of the character of the one loved. Children have many fears?fear of the dark, fear of death. It is a tragedy when they learn to fear God. The conception we wish them to get of our Heavenly Father is of a loving Father expecting obedience and trust from His children; a friend, one who can understand and sympathize with His children; the Creator, giver of sunshine and flowers. How can we make Jesus seem real that His life may be our guide? 1. Select the stories and messages of Jesus that will seem real to the children of different ages. 2. Make Christianity seem not a beautiful theory of life to be admired, but a practical system which if lived would solve the problems of the world. 3. Teach them that the truths Jesus taught were not given by Him arbitrarily but had been tested and were given by a kind Father who wished to save us heartache and pain. 4. Show that because of His teachings the world is much brighter today. 5. Have family projects. Get the cooperation of the group and prove that His teachings bring peace and happiness in the home. From our study of His life one of the most valuable truths which we can gain is that the Great Source to which He turned for help is available to all. He kept constantly close to His Heavenly Father through prayer. If He, with His strength, found peace and joy and guidance in prayer; if he prayed and taught others to pray, is not prayer indispensable for us?
ADDRESS President Louise Y. Robison
We are very grateful to our Father in Heaven for the accomplishments of Relief Society during the past year. Our Annual Report is filled with acts of spirituality and kindness which have been manifest by the women of Relief Society. Through the cooperation of President Joseph F. Merrill, of the European Mission, we have been in close touch with our Missions of the European countries as well as those of the islands. Every month a Bulletin is sent to these Missions telling them of our present work. The Membership Card instituted this year was sent to all English speaking countries, and a sample of the card was sent to the President of each of our foreign speaking missions, asking if they wished to have a card printed as nearly like our own as possible. There is hardly a week that letters do not come from Holland, Denmark, and other missions expressing appreciation for the Bulletin and the Membership Cards, as it binds them to us and makes them feel as if they belong to our organization. This condition, too, is manifest in the Relief Society Magazine. A year ago we asked for a drive for Magazine subscriptions, and we hoped there would be a number of Wards who would get a full quota of 100% of their members. The results have been a most joyous experience. Sister Backman, President of the South African Mission Relief Society, sent us in fifty-four subscriptions. What can be done with effort is shown by the report of Sister Colton of the Eastern States Mission. Sister Colton, in talking with one of the officers of one of her branches called attention to the fact that their quota was low, and in three days they sent in seventy-one subscriptions, bringing their total up to 110%. In one of the branches of this same mission they had only four members, but from the time of the organization these four members had each subscribed to the Relief Society Magazine, the influence of which was evident, for it is one of the finest organizations, with a wonderful spirit prevailing. The names of the prize winners in the Magazine contest have been published. One Ward reached 200%. There were 256 wards who made 100% or over. There is a saying of a German philosopher that if anything should be done, it can be done. I think that must have been the slogan of these women, and it is a very fine thing for us all to have achieved such remarkable success. Some Stakes have adopted the custom of sending subscriptions of the Magazine to their sick members instead of flowers. This Spring we have adopted a very attractive gift card for anyone who subscribes for the Magazine as a gift. Our lesson work has proved most interesting, the class leaders have given excellent service. One young mother has taught Theology (the Doctrine and Covenants) during the whole course. She says that she has averaged two hours a day in study on this, some months seventy hours in preparation. The lovely thing about it is, she feels to thank the Relief Society for the benefit it has been to her. There was no word of complaint for the time she had spent. The Relief Society Singing Mothers have done outstanding work, not only the fine group who have delighted us today with their lovely music, but this activity is carried on all over the Church. A few days ago a letter came from Sister Ramona Cannon, our Relief Society President of the British Mission, who said that in the various branches of the Mission the Relief Society Singing Mothers furnish the music. This is true in many countries. We are thankful for the accomplishments of the past year, and now we want to face the future with our hearts full of courage and faith and determination to do what is required of us. President Clark told us this morning what may be our requirements in the future, and I am sure every Relief Society will be prepared and ready to do the thing that may be given us to do. We all realize that the home is our paramount responsibility. Recently I read a beautiful address given by Dr. Adam S. Bennion, over KSL. Every mother would be thankful if she could have this influence in her home, and there is no reason why she could not. Wealth is not the standard, and I do not know why we could not have this type of home if we worked for it. May I read an extract from Dr. Bennion's address: "Some time ago it was my privilege to take dinner with a family in Idaho. Gathered around the table rich with the bounties of life were father, mother and seven children. All of them joined hearts in a prayer that I shall never forget: "Gratitude for health and food and shelter. "A petition for wisdom; for protection; for direction. "A plea for unity?that every member of the group might bring honor to every other member. "And a prayer that these same good blessings might be granted to all families, brothers and sisters in that great family of Him who presides over all of us. "That scene is a stronger argument for faith than the finest logic I ever heard. There was the happiness of benediction in that home. Its foundations were laid in religion. Ever since that evening I have wished that I might have the genius to pass that recipe on to other homes with such an appeal that they might want to test it out. For such homes are not only havens of happiness?they are our finest safeguards for the preservation of civilization." Sisters, let me repeat the saying of the old German philosopher: "If anything should be done, it can be done." There is not anything unusual or impossible in this, but it is a beautiful thing to strive for. The influence of the home depends largely upon the mother, but the community can either strengthen the home or make it difficult to uphold its standards. We have heard today a thrilling address by Judge McConkie. What are we going to do about it? Are we just going to feel sorry that such things exist? Brother McConkie said he believed the pendulum will swing back, but it will never swing back until people take an active, positive stand; it will never swing back by our simply feeling sorry that such conditions exist. There are in the United States 45,000,000 growing children; 200,000 of these children were brought before the Juvenile Court in one year. Former President Herbert Hoover, commenting upon this condition, said, "We need to turn the method of inquiry from the punishment of delinquency to the cause of delinquency. It is not the delinquent child that is at the bar of judgment but society itself. In addition to the great work of conserving our natural resources, there is a far more vital need, namely to discover a means of protecting our human resources. We need to make a conscious effort to insure to our children an inheritance upon which to build a healthier future for the race. They must not only be physically strong and mentally balanced, but they must have spiritual health." Is there a greater mission for Relief Society mothers than to help bring about this condition? To help mothers not only to have clean, beautiful homes, but where necessary to provide clothing that young people will not be embarrassed to associate with other young people in our organization. Sisters I believe we have neglected this. There are boys and girls who have for the last three or four years grown into youth and early manhood and womanhood under distressing conditions. Parents may be very fine, but they have not had the means to see that their young people have the pretty things that other girls and boys have. Too often we have felt that if they had bread to eat, and coal to burn, our responsibility ended. Too often we have thought that if we help just a little it is sufficient, and people should feel perfectly comfortable and satisfied. These young people have the same longings that yours have, and many of them I believe, are paying a tremendous price in order to get what they wish. Do you supply sufficient bedding for decent living standards? Sisters of the Relief Society, you have been called by men holding the Priesthood, not only to carry your own responsibility, your own load, but you have been considered strong enough to help carry the load of those who are overburdened. Are you carrying it? When you have parties, and your boys and girls are having a good time, do you ever think to invite the boys and girls who have not this opportunity, and who cannot give parties? Have you thought of including them in your homes at Christmas time? Not merely to send a basket, but to make them one of you? We shall never have reached our goal until we are eager and earnest in our efforts to carry the load of these weaker ones. These community problems are of interest to everyone of us. I believe if the mothers of our communities were to ask that Alcohol Education be taught in the schools, it would be done. Refrain from saying if a person drinks he is an outcast, or that he is not intelligent, rather teach the children to know just what alcohol does to the mind and to the body. Let youth grow up with standards. If our young people would only feel there is strength in living up to standards instead of feeling that it is more courageous to do as other people do! I have a little clipping here from Dr. Leavitt, who says: "What can I be loyal to?" "This is a time when traditions are regarded as handicaps, when conventions are said to be shackles, and institutions have lost our confidence. "What can I be loyal to?" "Why be loyal to anything? That is a vital question. It is the most vital question in life. A great life, a happy life, can only be worked out in terms of loyalty to somebody, something. "With nothing to tie to, with nothing worth tying to, life must be miserable. To suspect, to laugh. To rail against everything indicates spiritual acidosis. How unhappy! "The very soul of man, the God in him, is this necessity to give life to something, and for something. And men will do it anyway, to something unworthy, if nothing worthy can be found. "The purpose of God developing through imperfect phases of life, shaping more perfect expression through loyal lives;?there's the thing to tie to. "Be loyal to life." So let us try and instill in our young people the strength of having standards, and keeping to them when they are out in company. It shows strength to live up to the things we know to be the best for us! A number of years ago we inaugurated a plan of tree planting and home beautification, and fine results followed, but I think if you will look around you will find now many fine trees are being cut down and no new ones planted in their places. I was very much interested in a little article on tree planting. A certain man is trying to have a tree club, and anyone can join this if he will plant one tree a year. He says if a million people joined the club, we would have a million trees planted. An interesting report is made giving details of the countries that are beautiful, solely because of the trees. In the end, the chief product of any society is not motor cars, nor houses, nor plumbing, admirable as these things are, but human beings. Let each of us analyze our actions in our homes, and our communities. Will what we are doing produce stronger, freer, more honest, cooperative human beings? This is not only a challenge to the women of the Relief Society to try and develop increased spirituality, but it is our responsibility. May our Father in Heaven give us the power to hear the call, and strength and courage to carry it forward, remembering if there is a need there is always a way to fill that need. I ask this in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
ADDRESS Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
On the 94th birthday of the Relief Society, which occurred some three weeks ago, the organization had good reason for rejoicing because of both past accomplishments and future prospects. With its marvelous background and with its army of some 70,000 members united in effort, devoted to its cause, as few women are devoted to any cause, all willing to serve and strive, there would seem to be nothing it cannot accomplish. Although the Relief Society is a small organization compared with many other great national organizations of women in the country, some of which are twice, three times, five times or ten times its size, it is second to none in the nature of its cause, in the ability of its members to work unitedly and unselfishly in this cause, and in their unbounded faith in and loyalty to one another. What a fine thing it would be if we could resolve, at the outset of this our 95th year, to begin to feature more than ever before those things which of all other things are the most important and worthwhile, those things which are spiritual in nature and eternal in endurance, so that on our 100th birthday, in 1942, we could as an organization, as individuals and as Latter-day Saints reap the spiritual blessings which such a revival of religious enthusiasm might bring. Today the whole world is troubled. Problems have arisen the solution of which seem to baffle the wisest. Human greed and selfishness stalk the earth. Suspicion abounds. There seems to be a lack of brotherhood between man, and more serious than all, there is in many places a definite spirit of irreligion. And these influences are reaching into the homes and schools and threatening the faith of the people. We think of the home as the cornerstone of religious life, and if it is not strong, the whole religious fabric is weakened. One of the greatest needs of today is a reawakening to spiritual ideals which would in turn motivate men and women to a renewal of faith in God. We must trust the Lord throughout the eternities, why not trust him here and now? If we would have spirituality, we must live for it and work for it day by day, for it will take effort as well as resolutions to gain it. To be strong we must overcome. Some one has truly said, "We cannot gain muscles on a bed of eider-down." A spiritual life means discipline, self-denial and conforming to definite ideals, standards and laws. It means purging ourselves of selfishness, greed and sin. It means the practice of the simple virtues so beautifully taught by the Savior, one of whose rules of life is, "All things whatsoever you would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them." It is true that we have implanted strongly within us the instinct of self-preservation which, if we are not careful, becomes so all embracing that we forget the importance of the preservation of the lives of others, the importance of their anxieties, their hopes and fears, their longings and needs. Nations also have this self-same idea of self-preservation which, if emphasized out of all proportion to its importance and carried out at the expense of others, brings disaster. There should be a reconciliation of this idea of self-preservation with the highest and loftiest of our spiritual ideals, if we would keep the second of the two great commandments and love our neighbors as ourselves. We as Latter-day Saints have fixed principles and abiding convictions. Let us lay hold of these gifts and blessings. We have divine injunctions which have been given to us authoritatively and directly, and ' which we know so well. Let us obey these. We have set out for us a way of life which may be different but which embraces all phases of practical, efficient every-day living, which teems with abundant opportunity for spiritual development and which eventually leads to salvation. This way of life may be acquired even as a habit is acquired?by constant practice. If to live this life sets us apart from others, if it means being different, then let us be different. Notes to the Field Work and Business Department HE earliest activity of the Relief Society was sewing for the poor. Not in many years, not even in War time, was the opportunity for that work more apparent, than during the past season. ? Lack of proper and warm clothing for children during the last winter kept many of them from school and Sunday School attendance. It is reported that others attended so poorly clad that teachers called for contributions of clothing. To feed the hungry and clothe the naked is essentially the work of the Relief Society. To be aware of this responsibility and be ready at all times to assume it, is a Christian act which brings its own rewards. Now, during the summer months. When the need is not so pressing, is a good time to make plans and prepare for future needs. RADUATION time is almost here. Suitable clothing for this event becomes a real problem to many mothers. Let us give a helping hand. In cleaning closets, chests, etc., find those articles of clothing that we can do without and share with those less fortunate. It is surprising what wonders can be wrought by the mother who can remodel. A little dye, some alteration, a different bow or flower will transform the old apparel into something new and beautiful.