Motherhood Prays By Ann Jarvis (The heart of motherhood is universally the same) A SONNET TRIO Prayer of a Pioneer Mother This day I rise in thanks to Thee, kind Lord, Our Guide and our Protector in sore trials: Through territory almost unexplored, In safety Thou hast led us endless miles To found a home within these mountain vales. By faith, dear Father, Thou hast led me on Past that dim valley where, alone, Man fails, Making us one with Thee through this, our son. O God in Heaven, my joy knows no bounds, My heart sings with these streams, these waterfalls, Soaring beyond the high range which surrounds The peaceful beauty of Thy temple halls. May love of Thee and Home, this ecstasy, Bless all our children's lives?not die with me. Prayer of a Mother, Bereaved Forgive these welled-up tears within, dear Father, These fevered tears which will not be controlled; These cries of anguish which I dare not utter, Lest they who hear refuse to be consoled. O God, I must be brave for those I love? I must live on though I were better dead, To cheer and comfort him who, pain-racked, strove To bear his share of sorrow by this bed. Thy Gift of wee arms twining round our hearts Unites us all throughout Eternity. Secure with Thee in Immortality He lives; This hope-fulfilling thought of thoughts? Our child who was with me is now with Thee? Transcends the bond of human sympathy.  Youth's Prayer to Life Humbly I kneel before Thee, my Creator, With quickened childish faith, with sense of awe, For I perceive that Thou art even greater Than I had known. Besides the Light and Law Which I have worshipped since my days began, Thou art that powerful force called Life and Love, The same God who commanded that first man And woman to be fruitful from above. Life, lend me courage that I may obey, Give me the fortitude Eve must have had. God, let me rise with each new dawning day Nearer to Thee. This boon will make me glad? Even if I should taste of lingering death, Still would I give another soul Life's breath.