Lessons For 1936-37
A great Danish leader said, "An awakened mind will find the way." The way has been given; it is the Gospel as given to the world by Jesus. The spirit of His teachings is as true today as when He taught in Palestine. The need of the world is for "awakened minds" to understand the Gospel and realize that His way of life is the only practical way. The Theology Lessons, the Teachers' Topics and the Relief Society Project for 1936-37 are based on the life and teachings of Jesus.
THEOLOGY LESSONS?THE MINISTRY OF THE SAVIOR
1. Christ's Ministry Foretold by the Prophets.
2. Christianity Before the Christ.
3. A Divine Code to the Ideal Life (The Sermon on the Mount).
4. The Fundamental Qualities of Life (The Beatitudes).
5. The New Religion Versus the Old.
6. Christ the Champion of Woman.
7. The Christ as Organizer of a Church.
8. The Christ and the Gathering of Israel.
9. The Miracles of the Christ.
REFERENCE BOOKS Bible. Book of Mormon. Doctrine and Covenants. The Pearl of Great Price. Jesus the Christ?Talmage. The Way to Perfection?Smith. The Articles of Faith?Talmage. The Ethics of Jesus?King. The Life of Christ?Farrar. The Teachings of Jesus?Rall. Moral Teachings of Jesus?Bennion. The Realism of Jesus?Findlay. Religion and a Changing World?Silver.
TEACHERS' TOPIC?THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR
1. The Lost Sheep.
2. The Sower.
3. The Parable of the Prodigal Son.
4. The Parable of the Talents.
5. The Parable of the Friend at Midnight.
6. The House Built Upon a Rock.
7. The Pharisee and the Publican.
8. The Good Samaritan.
9. The Unmerciful Servant.
WORK AND BUSINESS LESSONS Home Problems
Some people work better when working in groups. "The very fact that others around them are working on things of a similar type seems to stimulate many people."
I. October: Color in the Home.?Handicraft For Every Woman, pages 24-26, pp. 58-59. See Pamphlet Suggestions, page 175. II. November: Ornamental and Useful Things for Christmas.?Handicraft For Every Woman, pages 124-127, p. 135. III. December: Repairing, Remodeling and Replenishing Clothing, Bedding and Household Linens. IV. January: Convenient Kitchens, Home Lighting?Handicraft For Every Woman, pages 50-58. V. February: Repairing, Refinishing and Upholstering Furniture and Making Slip Covers.?Handicraft For Every Woman, pages 33- VI. March: Seeds and Plants. VII. April: Floors and Floor Coverings?Handicraft For Every Woman, pages 27-30 and p. 98. VIII. May: Methods and Equipment For Home Laundering. IX. June: Knitting and Crocheting.?Handicraft For Every Woman, pages 67-76.
LITERARY LESSONS
It is said that everybody reads biography today, and that in the best-selling lists biography and fiction run side by side. Our literary lessons for 1936-7 will take up three most interesting biographies. During October, November and December we will study the life of Alice Freeman Palmer; January, February and March, the life of Abraham Lincoln; April, May and June, the life of Julia Ward Howe. Special editions of these biographies have been secured so as to give our members a very much lower price on the books than would otherwise be possible. These volumes may be secured at the Deseret Book Store at the following prices:
Julia Ward Howe........$2.00 postpaid Alice Freeman Palmer 1.25 postpaid Abraham Lincoln.......90 postpaid Add 2% for Utah Sales Tax.
The set of three books, $4.00. We hope these will be secured as early as possible, so that all will read them leisurely and be able to get the most out of them.
MISSION LESSONS 1936-1937 CHILD GUIDANCE
George Herbert Betts, in his book Fathers and Mothers, says: "It is easy enough to be parents of our children, but to be parents to them is a privilege and a duty not yet fully realized by all of us." To help us be parents to our children, to realize that it is our responsibility to guide their development, and that this responsibility "cannot be delegated, it is ours," the Mission Lessons on Child Guidance have been planned. The following vital problems will be considered for the following year:
Parental Responsibility. Can Mothers Learn More About Training Their Children? Why Our Children Are Not Alike. How Children's Fears Develop. How to Overcome Fears. The Meaning and Control of Temper Tantrums. How to Administer Rewards and Punishments. Some Suggestions on the Parent-child Relationship.