5 The Present Duty of the Relief Society (Address Delivered at Relief Society Conference, Friday, April 3, 1936) By President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. MY Brothers and Sisters: It is indeed an honor to meet with you and to be asked to address you? you, the Relief Society, the first of the auxiliary organizations organized in the Church. I have enjoyed the services thus far, and I pray that during the time I may speak to you I shall be led by the spirit of the Lord to say to you such things as may be helpful to you and to me. I wish first to pay my tribute again to the Singing Mothers. I never hear them without enjoying them, and being grateful for them. I think the name itself?"Singing Mothers" ?is a guerdon for the work which they are doing. It seems to me that of all of the high and lofty callings which the Lord has given to His children, none stand in the place or upon the heights where dwells Motherhood. As I philosophize to myself the meaning of Motherhood, what Mother does, first in building the tabernacle for the spirit, then rearing the tabernacle of the spirit after birth, when I think of the responsibility, the duty, and then the glory of Motherhood, I not only am lost in admiration for Mothers, but I thank God that to me has come something of the picture of what Motherhood means. The Mothers who sing, and who sing the Songs of Zion with prayerful hearts and in a spirit of worship, are not only themselves blessed, but they will bless their families, and through these blessings the Church itself is helped to grow and increase and fulfil the destiny which the Lord has marked out for His people. LAST evening I scanned the history of the organization of the Relief Society as given in the History of the Church. This Society is, I believe, the one auxiliary organization that was organized by the Prophet himself, and the records in the history of the Church indicate that the Prophet not only had great pride, but great interest also in the work which the sisters were to do. In these times of stress and strain, which so far as the Relief Society is concerned may become greater as the months wear on, almost infinitely greater, it seems to me that we might well refer to what the Prophet said regarding the organization of this great group, as it has now come to be, of women. He says in his record of March 24, 1842: "I attended by request, the Female Relief Society, whose object is the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes..." Continuing, and commenting upon those present at the meeting, he says: "There was a very numerous attendance at the organization of the society, and also at subsequent meetings, of some of our most intelligent, humane, philanthropic and respectable ladies; and we are well assured from a knowledge of those pure principles of benevolence that flow spontaneously from their humane and philanthropic bosoms, that with the resources they will have at command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; they will pour in oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice." The History of the Church records that the Prophet again visited the ladies in their organization under date of March 30, 1842. Sister Eliza R. Snow recorded the minutes of the meeting, and among the statements she records as having been made by the Prophet is the following: "This charitable Society is according to your natures, it is natural for females to have feelings of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms." I REPEAT that so far as one can humanly see, having in mind the withdrawal, as it seems now clear there will be, of that support which has come to people from Government sources, that the task to be placed upon the Church organizations in the near future will be greatly increased. Not a small part of your activities in the more recent past have been what I shall call "cultural." You have more or less taken on the attributes that are attached in the world to cultural clubs. The Lord has blessed you in your work. But it seems to me that now, and for the few on-coming months at least, you may be moving into a new world, a world that will call for the exercise of qualities and activities in a degree of intensity which you have not had for many years. Yours is a great duty and a great responsibility, and the Lord will expect you to fulfil it. It is my faith, as it is my prayer, that you will be able to meet the new tasks which will confront you, that you will bear the burden which will be placed upon you, and that the Lord will bring to you in your work those qualities which it is necessary you should have. If you are to do this work in accordance with His will there must come into your hearts love unbounded; there must flow through your souls charity, charity for the weaknesses of others, and as you will have observed, the weaknesses of others appear at no time so clearly and with so much force as in times of trouble and distress; it is in such times that lack of courage appears. It is then that defects of character are manifest; it is then that all of the unloveliness of human kind is likely to come to the fore. It will be the duty and obligation of the Relief Society in these coming months to bear all this with patience and with humility, not only bear, but forbear every duty. Every day should be approached with prayer in your hearts and a determination to see not the bad but the good, for there is no one born of woman who is so depraved that there is not in him or her something of good. It is the duty of the Relief Society and of every member thereof, diligently to look for, and earnestly to seek for that good. I WANT to refer to that old parable that is frequently referred to of the Good Samaritan, because there are certain things in it that I think fit our situation. It is recorded, as you know, in the tenth chapter of St. Luke: "And behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? "He said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou? "And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself. "And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right: this do, and thou shalt live. "But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbor? "And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. "And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. "And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him and passed by on the other side. "But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him. "And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. "And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves? "And he said, He that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise." HERE are two or three things I wish to get out of this parable this morning. In the first place the question was, "Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?" and the answer came in the parable of the Good Samaritan. There is the problem, there is the work, and there is the reward. In the next place there is a statement that they whose business it would seem it should have been to care for the poor and for the needy?first the Priest and then the Levite?seeing the man wounded and half dead, passed by on the other side, giving no succor and no relief. This could not be without condemnation to those whose business and whose duty it was. The Relief Society must see to it that they do not fall under the condemnation that came to the Priest and the Levite, that they perceiving someone in dire distress, shall not pass by on the other side. The Samaritan came to the rescue. And remember that those of Samaria, in the time of Jesus, were regarded as the poorest and most despicable of all of the neighbors of the Jews. There was between the Jew and the Samaritan a hatred as intense as ever existed between two peoples, and Jesus took as an illustration of those who might and who could render service, one of those who to the Jews was a stench and monstrosity; it was the Samaritan, the Priest and the Levite having gone by, who rendered the service. WE have been, my brothers and sisters, in times past, in the eyes of the world not so far removed from the position of the old Samaritan. We have labored under criticism, disdain, contempt, and the Lord has chosen us, and chosen you, the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to set an example to the world in these hours of stress as to what should be done to care for the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted, those in distress. This is your prime duty, all others, as I see it, fade into the distant background at the present time; and your duty must be, as was the duty of the Samaritan of old. You must not only bind up the wounds as they exist, but you must see to it that those who are in sorrow and dire straits shall be taken care of until they shall be fully recovered. And if you will do this you will literally, my brothers and sisters, literally become an ensign to the world, and this Church has never had such glory come to it as will be its glory if you shall fully perform your duties in these respects. MAY the Lord give unto you His power and His spirit. May He clothe you with humility, and dress you in charity and love. May He be with you always in this great work which you have, perhaps there is none greater at the present moment, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. The Mother of Nancy By Vesta P. Crawford MARGARET DALE, matron of the Children's Aid Society, had forgotten everything but the May morning. She stood at the south window looking out on the sloping lawn to a shining spot where pink and yellow tulips bordered the flagstone walk. The tulips were fresh and new budded, fluted, and dusted with dew. The woman caught her breath suddenly. "Chalice cups," she whispered, "perhaps the Holy Grail was like a tulip cup." As she turned back toward the desk, her thin white hand held back the ruffled curtain and sunlight flooded into the room. It was a long room with ivory colored woodwork and a glowing waxed floor. A pleasant room, thought Margaret Dale. And it was her planning and her skillful manipulation of the Aid budget that had made it so. Her consultation desk stood in front of the east windows and there was a tapestry covered chair beside it. Margaret Dale sat there in the sunshine but her eyes were not on the papers before her. "Well, what's on the docket?" A brisk voice came from the hallway. Margaret turned slowly. She looked at Eva Stratton, a tall woman in her late twenties. Her eyes were black and a little too shining. But her hair was lovely, coal black except for one lock of gray on the right side. She wore a black crepe dress with white linen collar and cuffs. Black is too efficient looking and too sombre, thought Margaret. "Who is our first client this morning?" the quick voice repeated. Eva Stratton stood poised, ready for the day's first "case." "A Mrs. Wilton wants to adopt a six-year-old girl." Margaret's eyes encountered bravely the hard black ones. "Oh. One of those particular kind, this Mrs. Wilton. I suppose a five-year-old wouldn't do." "Mrs. Wilton's voice sounded throaty over the telephone, but nice." Margaret walked slowly to the window again. The tulips still flaunted springtime, poised springtime. "You know, Eva, picking out a child is such a difficult situation." "Difficult? The child is already here. I don't see anything difficult in that." Margaret turned slowly and the sunlight flamed on her orchid wool dress and fell in lighted arcs on the lace collar. "Eva," she said, "we must remember the great responsibility of "matching." The mother and child must be suited to each other. It's a heart situation?linking of hearts." Eva opened the top drawer of the file case and took out a long folder. "Well, in your thirty years of Children's Aid you've had so many cases that this one more won't make much difference." The older woman thought of that long procession of children who had for a time been hers and all the women who had come wanting them. "You know, Eva, every time a woman comes I wonder why she wants a child. Her particular reason." "How do you find that out?" "Sometimes I don't find out." "Well, just so she wants a child. Goodness knows, we have plenty of them." THE doorbell rang and Miss Stratton opened the door. She held out her hand to a slender woman in a navy blue suit. Something over forty. One of the teary kind, thought Eva. But neat and she had good taste. Money, too. Her wide-brimmed blue hat was circled around the crown with a band of twisted white satin and there were white buttons on the suit. "Mrs. Wilton?" The woman nodded. "I am Miss Stratton. The matron will handle your case." "Take this chair by the window," Margaret Dale invited. "Did you see the tulips as you came in?" "Oh, yes. Tulips are lovelier than ever this year and earlier, too." Margaret glanced at her papers. "I understand, Mrs. Wilton, that you want to adopt a six-year-old girl." "I'd like to take a little girl to see if we could love each other." So she understood, thought Margaret. She knew about heart linking. Margaret's violet eyes softened and she began to think of the little girls who at that moment were at their lessons, not knowing, of course, what was being planned for them. "You may take one of the girls you like and try her out. But don't expect too much at first. Love, you know, has to grow." "I know. But then how it grows! And not anything can be like it. Not anything." The telephone rang in an inner office and Miss Stratton answered it. Presently she came back. "I beg your pardon, Miss Dale. Someone wants you." Margaret seemed to have forgotten such things as telephones and cases. She stood up slowly. "Perhaps, Miss Stratton, you would like to talk with Mrs. Wilton a minute or two. I'll be right back." Eva Stratton sat very straight in the chair and followed along down the typed page with her pencil. "Where was I? Oh, yes. Now Mrs. Wilton, just what type of child would you like?" "One who stands with her lips parted and a shining face when she hears music." Miss Stratton frowned. "I mean what physical type, complexion, and so forth." "I am not particular about that. Only if you have one with pale gold curls." "Well, so many want curls. Most any of them could take a permanent." A woman like that deserved something snappy by way of retort, thought Eva. But Mrs. Wilton had not noticed. "And little long fingers," she was saying, "so that she could play a violin." A light flamed in the blue eyes, her eager lips parted. "We have two rather robust children," Miss Stratton said. "Good solid nerves. There's one slender child, not so strong, nervous and makes poor group adjustments." Just then Margaret closed the door of the inner office and came back to her desk. "Miss Stratton, will you please bring Jane in." Eva walked quickly down the hall and the matron turned again to Mrs. Wilton. The woman's slender fingers lay on the desk. "Miss Dale," she said, "I want to ask you something that I think you'll understand. What kind of thoughts do these children have?" A far-away look came into Margaret's face. "We never get close enough to these children to even guess their thoughts. Only a mother can do that." "I know." Miss Stratton came back with a chubby child. "This is Jane," she said. The child's unlighted black eyes looked solemnly at Mrs. Wilton. "Have you a dolly?" asked the woman. "Two. I don't break my dolls." "She never breaks anything," said Miss Stratton, "and she knows how to set the table already." Margaret noticed that finally the woman's eyes shifted to the window. The black-eyed child was taken away and another brought in. "This is Phyllis." Obediently, Mrs. Wilton looked at the child. She was a small girl with blue eyes and brown hair. She stood on one foot and turned the ends of her collar around her fingers. Mrs. Wilton looked out of the window again, then she turned to Phyllis and said, "Some little girls think that tulips are the cups of springtime and the sun pours warmth into them. What flowers do you like, my dear, nasturtiums?" "I like all flowers. But the best are violets. They're so little and afraid." When Miss Stratton had taken Phyllis out, Mrs. Wilton said slowly, "She has nice thoughts, that little girl. But she hasn't any freckles. I would like a little girl with freckles on her nose." Margaret said, "That little girl needs loving. She has been with us a long time." Eva came again. The child with her was tall and thin. Suddenly Mrs. Wilton raised her eyes and looked intently at the little girl. Clear blue eyes looked straight into clear blue eyes. The child pushed back her pale gold hair with a little long hand. The woman stood up and moved eagerly toward the little girl. She stroked her hair and turned her face upwards. Then her fingers touched the freckled nose. "What is your name?" "Nancy." The woman trembled and her hand caught the desk. "Oh," she said, "your name is Nancy." "I like it," said the child, "don't you?" "Yes, I do. It's my favorite name. Only I * * * " Mrs. Wilton turned away quickly. With trembling hands she picked up her bag and gloves. "I'm sorry, Miss Dale. I have to go. I'll telephone later. I didn't know it would be like this." SHE was gone. They heard a motor turn. Margaret Dale stood again at the window. She looked at the tulips and thought once more of chalice cups and cups for sunshine. The freshness of spring welled up against the window. The shadowed patterns of leaves moved back and forth across the pane. Color, warmth, new life, May. Miss Stratton had taken Nancy out of the room. Now she gathered up the papers on the desk and put them back into the file case. "Well, I guess that's the last we'll see of Mrs. Wilton," she commented. "A good thing, too. Not the kind to handle children. But she's gone for good." "No," said Margaret Dale. "She will come back when the healing is over." "What healing?" But Margaret was thinking of many things. She was thinking about the linking of hearts and about mothers and little girls. Eva Stratton was about to say something about hens that had never had any chicks of their own. Then Margaret turned from the window and her eyes were wet with tears. Eva said, "Don't take it so hard. These women who have never had any children of their own are particular about what they want. Never having had any of their own." But Margaret did not hear. She sat down uncertainly in the tapestry chair and fingered a blue opalescent vase on the desk. Then she looked at the door Mrs. Wilton had closed so quietly. "I wonder when her own little girl died," she said. TIRED MOTHER By Elsie E. Barrett A tired Mother So shaky and worn With wrinkled fingers From tasks she has borne. Tired shoulders Forlornly they sag, And tired footsteps That wearily lag. Those tired eyelids Have hidden the tears When heart of sorrow Was burdened with fears. Her tired body So loyal and true, Has suffered aching No one ever knew. Undaunted spirit On God still depends With prayers so faithful Till Life's journey ends. MAKE EVERY DAY "CHILD HEALTH DAY" To Preserve Children?Take: One large grassy field Half a dozen children Two or three small dogs A pinch of brook and pebbles Mix children and dogs well together, and put them in the field Stirring constantly?Pour brook over pebbles?Sprinkle field With flowers?Spread over all a deep blue sky and bake in the sun When brown?Remove and set to cool in a bath tub.