TO MOTHER By Samuel G. Clawson
The earth, I often think would be a drear, Drab place despite its varying season's flowers In spring, the autumn leaves, and at the year's End, snow to blanket tiresome hours Of winter?were it not that God had seen The need of overtones?those gay perennials Which last the whole year through and lean Upon the air with fragrance spilling vials Of perfume into empty spots where blowing Spring seeds take no root, and summer's shower Drenches the dainty bud beyond all growing. Ah then, we're thankful for the lasting flower! And you, the gay perennial, bless the year, Blooming eternally, our Mother dear.
Relief Society Conference OFFICERS' MEETING April 2 and 3, 1936 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints held its Annual Conference April 2 and 3, 1936, in Salt Lake City, Utah. President Louise Y. Robison was in charge. There were nine sessions in all, including the Officers' Meeting; four departments?Social Welfare, Work and Business, Choristers and Organists, and Magazine Agents; the Reception for General, Mission and Stake Officers; the Presidents' Breakfast, and two General Sessions. The attendance at all sessions was most gratifying, including delegates from 114 Stakes and 10 Missions. The attendance at the Officers' Meeting was as follows: Mission Presidents 10; Mission Officers 2; Stake Presidents 87; Counselors 121; Secretary-Treasurers 61; Board Members 393; making a total attendance of 674. The music of the entire conference was especially fine. The Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the able direction of Charlotte O. Sackett, were at their best. They were assisted by Professor Frank W. Asper at the organ; Alta B. Cassity and Helen Croft Jensen at the piano; Professor William M. Hardiman with the violin. Soloists were: Eleanor Thomas, Margaret Hewlett, and Bessie Morley. The reception for Stake and Mission Officers held at the Hotel Utah on Thursday evening was arranged by Emma A. Empey, Chairman. It was most beautiful in every detail, and gave the opportunity for Relief Society sisters from far and wide to meet in delightful social contact. The General Presidency and Board were greatly touched by the beautiful flowers from the Hillcrest Ward and Bonneville Stake. A most unique and interesting addition to the conference was the exhibit of handwork done by the General Officers of Relief Society and the General Authorities' wives, both past and present. This delightful feature was a part of the Work and Business Department, with Jennie B. Knight, chairman, and showed the thrift, frugality and artistry of the sisters. The articles exhibited displayed handwork dating from pioneer times to the present, and were a credit to any group of women at any time or place. In addition to this there was a fine demonstration of made-over articles, conducted by Bessie E. Gourley, of Utah Stake; rug making by Elnore R. Morris, of Highland Stake; and bookbinding by Bertha B. Asper of Salt Lake Stake?just a few of the things possible in Work and Business Meetings.
STAKE OFFICERS' MEETING OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison
"There will be a change in the schedule for visiting your Conference-conventions. The General Authorities have divided the quarterly conferences, of which they will take one-half, and the auxiliary organizations the other half. The Relief Society will hold its conference-conventions during the third and fourth quarters of the year, beginning the last of June and continuing through the remainder of the year. Our program will be carried on very much as it has been. The General Authorities have given us permission to hold our Officers' and some other meetings on Saturday afternoon, and Sunday morning we may meet with the Bishops and our Ward Presidents. We will get our programs to you as early as possible, and you will realize that we cannot change the date because it is set by the General Authorities, and is a part of the quarterly conference. I believe you will be very happy to know that we are going to change the time for publishing the lessons in the Relief Society Magazine. The early publication of the lessons did not work out very satisfactorily, so the lessons for the Fall of 1936-1937 will not begin until the August issue of the Magazine. We have been asked about the singing practice in our Relief Society meetings. Some of the wards have felt that they have not time for this, and others, that the singing practice is not long enough?they would like the greater part of Relief Society devoted to this. We now restate this ruling, which we have announced before, that the singing practice is to be ten minutes, and no longer, at each of the Ward meetings, except Theology. The Theology, preceded by the Visiting Teachers' Training Meeting, and including our Testimony meeting, makes a very full period, and we think the singing practice should be dispensed with for this day. Singing is to bring our minds into harmony with the purpose of the meeting, to give the spiritual atmosphere, and help one to leave the things of every day life outside. Singing the first song is an important preparation for the prayer that follows. We want to congratulate the Stakes and Wards for the work they have done; on the excellent programs they have had for the seventeenth of March. In general they have been outstanding, and the ingenuity in finding so many new things has been greatly appreciated. There have been just a very few Stakes where, in the effort to escape from the drab or the too serious things of life, programs that were hardly in keeping with the Relief Society have been presented. We do not wish to be stiff and formal, but we do want to be dignified and exemplary women. We think it is entirely out of place for women to blacken their faces for any show, and we would rather not have women dress in men's clothing. Always try to do things that retain dignity, and you can have pleasure, too, by making the Anniversary Day programs as high grade as it is possible to have them. We have been informed in some cases that there is no report made of the business discussed in the meetings of the General Conference, when you return home. We were just a bit surprised at the Leadership Week in Provo, when a Stake Board member said she had never heard a word about our Handicraft book. This officer could not attend meetings last April or October, and nearly a year after our book was published she had never heard of it. I wonder if you Presidents feel that this book is as fine as we think it is! We have had so many responses from it. Have you taken it up seriously, realizing that there was something worthwhile in it, or have you just scarcely looked at it and thought it was not what you wanted? Orders from far remote parts have come in for the Handicraft book, as shown by our order files?educators from all over America have asked for it. Handicraft is not just a fad, it is something that will make a change in our lives. Sister Barker, who spent some time in Czechoslovakia related what a wonderful thing happened to the people of Czechoslovakia. They had been almost serfs, not even permitted to use their own language. Some of the women worked in the fields, barefoot, but no matter how hard the work, or how menial the task, they did not forget to try some creative work largely through the advice of their great leader, Masaryk?they kept alive the spirit of their nation. When these women came home from the fields, weary as they must have been, they would do some beautiful handwork. Sister Barker saw a piece of lace upon which one woman had spent almost all her life. She had tried to copy the flowers that were native to that part of the country, and in a square of lace, a most exquisite thing was preserved. There was no money value placed upon it, but to have this outlet for self-expression in her life was of immense value. Latter-day Saint women could have a culture that could be outstanding. I feel that we have neglected some of the beautiful arts that our mothers and grandmothers brought to this country. We are especially blessed because we have people here from every country, so that from all of these lands we should develop an art which is distinctly our own. It is very interesting to know that the Congressional Library in Washington has asked for the bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine that were missing, to complete their files. If any of you go to Congress and need the Relief Society Magazine, you may find it in the library there. About a year ago the United States Public Health Department asked us to cooperate with them in making it popular to have outdoor toilets in better condition throughout the Western states. Mr. Male met with us in our Work and Business Meeting, and had something there on display. We were asked to endorse the work, which we did. Under date of March 27, 1936, we received a letter from the Treasury Department of the United States Public Health Service, thanking the Relief Society for the cooperation they had given in this project, and saying that in the Western States, where Relief Society is active, they have more of these very fine toilets than in any other place in the United States. In order that there be no misunderstanding on the subject of the Relief Society and the Missionary work, we quote from the Bulletin issued by the Presiding Bishop's Office: "Relief Society and Missionary Donations: It is learned that in some instances Ward Bishoprics have placed upon the Ward Relief Society the responsibility of raising funds for Missionaries out in the field. This is, of course, improper, because the Relief Society is specifically charged with other responsibilities, among which is the raising of funds for charity. The gathering of any donations for the aid of the Missionaries should be either under the direction of Melchizedek quorum members or a specially appointed Missionary Committee." Now sisters, we do not want you to feel that we are not interested in the Missionaries, we are, and if any one of us can contribute to the Missionaries, it is a privilege to do so, but the Relief Society, as an organization, is not called upon to raise money for the Missionaries. We have prepared a gift card, which we will take up more in detail in the Magazine Department, but I want the Stake Presidents to know about it. We will send to any person who receives the Magazine as a Birthday, Mothers-day or Christmas gift, this very attractive card. In reading the Bulletin from the Presiding Bishopric, which gives the names of the Stakes from all over the Church, and the percentage of weekly attendance at Priesthood Meeting, and that of Ward Membership at Sacrament Meeting, the percentage is very low in some places. Now sisters, we are not trying to dictate, but we do feel that the mothers of our Church have a very large responsibility for the attendance at Sacrament Meeting. Do you know there are only three Stakes in our Church where one-third of the membership are in meeting? There are only seven Stakes where one-fourth of the people go to Sacrament Meeting. There are seventy-six Stakes where less than one-fifth go to meeting. There are two Stakes where only eleven out of one hundred members go to meeting. Is there anything you can do about this, sisters? This report made me feel that in some widely scattered communities there might be a justifiable excuse for this neglect of duty, but when I noted what Wards they were, the excuse would not hold, for Salt Lake City, and other larger cities, brought the record down. In some of the remote Stakes, where transportation is a serious problem, there is better attendance. A very active, live Relief Society Stake President called at the office and said her Stake President had asked each 'of the heads of the auxiliary organizations to give five reasons why people are not attending to their religious duties. It might be well for you to take this suggestion home, and find out, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE if your people are not attending, five reasons why they are not. There has been considerable agitation about the time of closing our meetings at the end of the season. Some Stakes say the people do not come out, they are just tired, while at that same time some others say they have a regular attendance. Word has gone out that some Stakes have permission to close early. If these Stakes have had permission we now rescind that permission, and place the responsibility directly upon you. We feel that the lessons ' should keep up until well in June. I realize that in some places there are berries to pick and women are busy, but they should not work all the time, they should have some rest. I believe if the Stake Officers and Board Members and Committees would plan something especially desirable and unique, and work a little harder, we could keep our meetings up at least until the season closes. We want to know if you cannot do this, because we would not prepare the lessons if they cannot be given. A stake officer reported the other day that in some of the Wards they could double up the lessons. I think if there is any complaint of our lessons, it is, they are too long. If they are too long for one meeting you certainly could not get anything much of them if you tried to give two lessons in one day. Formerly we prepared lessons for September, and then women were so busy we did not begin until October, but if the lessons are not appreciated we will just not make quite as many lessons. We are leaving it to you Stake Presidents to say when the meetings close. I would like to thank you dear sisters for coming out this morning, and bringing this beautiful spirit with you. The members of the General Board would like individually to express to you their appreciation for RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE your kindness and for your wonderful hospitality when we go out into your Stakes. Please remember that not any 309 problem is too small, write to us, come and see us. We pray for you and are always interested in hearing from you. ANNUAL REPORT Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary I" gives me great pleasure to give a very brief summarized statement of the Annual Report for 1935. A detailed report will be mailed to the Stakes and published in the May issue of the Relief Society Magazine. The following summary is given: Total Balance on Hand 'January 1, 1935, $145,744.31; Total Receipts during 1935, $226,257.23; Total Balance on Hand and Receipts, $372,001.54; Paid for Charitable Purposes, $66,863.86; Total Disbursements, $219,091.78; Total Balance, December 31, 1935, $152,909.76; Total Assets, $990,284.04; Ward Conferences Held, 1,437; Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers, 994,261; Number of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound, 228,871. Membership in 1934, 70,- 515; in 1935, 72,093; an increase of 1,578. The Membership includes: Executive and Special Officers, 15,236; Visiting Teachers, 24,602; Other Members, 32,255. Average attendance 1934, 33,833; 1935, 32,- 335; a decrease of 1,498. Paid for Charitable Purposes in 1934, $62,- 608.95; 1935, 66,863.86, an increase of $4,254.91. May I take this opportunity of expressing our very great appreciation to the Stake Secretaries. There have been a number of new ones this year, owing to the reorganizations which have taken place, but on the whole the work of the Secretaries, as demonstrated by the Annual Report, was extremely well done this year. ORGANIZATIONS AND REORGANIZATIONS During the year 1935 there were a number of changes in the Relief Society organizations throughout the world. A number of new Stakes have been created, and several reorganizations have taken place. It is always with a feeling of love that we note the retirement of those sisters who have been associated in the organization work for so many years, and without exception they have given the best efforts of their lives toward building up the work which is so dear to them. The General Officers, as well as the people of the communities in which they live, join in expressing to those who retire from active service, the utmost gratitude and appreciation. It is always a pleasure to welcome to the group of Stake Presidents those who have been called upon. To accept this responsible position in the communities, and nothing can give greater pleasure than to experience from them the same fine cooperation we have always found in their predecessors. The following is a list of Organizations and Reorganizations as we have them compiled to date: 310 Northern States Artemesia Romney RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Appointed President Pearl A. Daynes Mrs. W. Ernest Young Mary P. Howells Appointed President Clara H. Fridal Vera L. Swapp Cornelia S. Lund Blanch Hoglund Vera H. Cloward Edith D. Sellers Camellia Rencher Sophia Meikle Amy B. Towler Appointed President Hannah Ursenbach May G. Hinckley ORGANIZATIONS Date Stake, Oct. 1935 Bonneville (Taken from Liberty) Mission South American Mission Divided: Argentine Brazil REORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Feb., 1936 Bear River Margaret W. Manning Oct., 1935 Kanab Bergetta A. Covington Oct., 1935 Liberty Amy P. Romney Feb., 1936 Los Angeles Laura P. Hotaling ~ Oct. 1935 Nebo ~? Mary P. Harding Dec., 1935 Sacramento Olive Lindblad Nov., 1935 St. Johns Josephine A. Patterson Mar., 1936 Teton Eve L. Engberson Mar., 1936 Wells Marie H. Tanner French Ruth L. Lang RELIEF SOCIETY AWAKE TO CHURCH STANDARDS Donna D. Sorensen, Member of the General Board WO evils are constantly beckoning to all people and to young people especially and these are the evils of liquor and tobacco. The standards of the Church have been and are that inasmuch as these things are not good for man we totally abstain from them. We recognize that no one at the time of their first indulgence in tobacco and liquor intends to become habituated but it is the nature of these evils to enslave and so in "total abstinence" alone is there safety. Sec. 89 of the Doc. And Cov. Is our safeguard which helps us to distinguish between that which might have a tendency to become an accepted social custom and that which we should avoid because of the admonition of the Lord. There are numbers in the Relief Society today who have no remembrance of the corner saloons and the broken homes resulting from drink. Never before has a generation of young people so free from the spectacular pictures of drunken men on the street and drink cursed homes been brought so suddenly into easy contact with alcoholic drink. What is the answer? The old-fashioned appeal of being good for goodness' sake alone is not a workable one today I feel. We must meet the inevitable "why" of the youth with a background of science and education based on the needs of public health, safety, and all-round daily living. We must build not alone on a foundation of abstract morals but of morals based upon scientific information and social experience. We must counteract the deluge of Mission Released RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE pseudo-scientific advertising in newspapers, radio and magazines by a sound knowledge of the truth. It has been said that one generation never learns from preceding generations. This should not be true of Latter-day Saints because the truth as revealed to us by the word of God is constant and remains still truth for each generation. We should pray for faith that we may accept without reservation the word of our Father. Do we have and can we develop faith to go hand in hand with scientific knowledge to fortify us? We must not only have the facts in our heads concerning the harmfulness of these evils but we must have also a living principle in our hearts. The fight against these evils must 311 first of all be an individual fight but if it remains just an individual fight it can not be as successful as when we have. Organized activity. The women of Relief Society must band together in their stakes and communities to uphold the standards of this Church. It is right and logical that this society should be to the forefront in these matters for who has ever been more concerned for the youth of the land than the mothers who gave to youth their very life? The Lord calls to us to "keep the faith, to carry on the deeds, to hold the spirit, the courage, the integrity of the pioneers." Will you answer that call equipped with the clear eye of knowledge and the heart full of faith in His word? THE VALUE OF CAREFUL PLANNING Achsa E. Paxman, President Utah Stake Relief Society "THE value of planning is important in every phase of life. One of its virtues is that it stimulates preparation; preparation gives information and confidence, and if you have confidence in yourself to perform that work, better results will follow. One may get by without planning ahead, but meeting the problems as they arise brings worry and lack of confidence. Preparation is needed in both spiritual and temporal work. Officers, class leaders, welfare workers, visiting teachers, and all workers, if efficiently performing their calling, prepare and plan. To magnify our calling, planning is essential. Business magazine records: "No man ever got nervous prostration pushing his business; you get it only when the business pushes you." Early preparations and plans will help in avoiding worry, strain, confusion and failures. Reading the Relief Society Magazine, the Handbook, and other instructions, and planning for conferences, socials, membership and magazine drives, brings such satisfactory results that compensation for the forethought is fully rewarded. It is careful planning and not hasty preparations that will make a prosperous and happy Relief Society. The things we pay for in advance we get at greatest profit. To get the greatest profit out of Relief Society, we must pay in advance by planning ahead. Any business that is carried on in a business-like manner is always budgeted, not only for its finances but also for conserving time. An architect never builds without plans and knows exactly what the finished building will be because of his careful planning. The mother who knows early in the day what the dinner menu will be has a better planned meal. Budgeting the family income and planning all household 312 duties secures ample means and time. Stake workers should plan a schedule or tentative program for the year and great benefits will-also come to the ward officers who make yearly, monthly and weekly plans. This combined with the monthly Union Meeting discussions and instructions will make: the wheels of Relief Society revolve perfectly and will give joy and progression to all. A story is told that when the radio was introduced the ear expressed itself as being the most important part of the face. However, the eyes, and mouth proved their importance, for without them radio programs could not be produced. Every officer and all departments are important, and each must prove its importance by planning and cooperating to make one grand general plan. The Washington Monument is one-third under ground. The preparation not seen is probably the hardest part. Some stakes prepare a printed program, outlining the events that take place each month during the year with suggestions and reminders that will be helpful to each Relief Society organization. In Utah Stake a yearly report is given each ward at the close of the year including the following items: Number of families in Ward; Ward Relief Society enrollment; % of families of ward enrolled; Average attendance of enrolled members; % of membership attending; Number of Magazines taken by members; % of enrollment taking the Magazine. With this comparative report of all wards, each one is able to see its weak and strong points and build according to its needs. A monthly check on some of the previous items is also given besides including the following: Number reading the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Relief Society Magazine; % of teachers' visits and talking the topic; and number prepared or having read the lesson for the day. To increase membership and attendance of members, a membership committee checks on all absentees after three times consecutive absence. They also invite new members to join the Relief Society and especially try to interest young mothers in joining. Magazine Drives well planned by the stake is "First Aid" to the ward agents. Suggestive Social Activities may be planned for the year and details worked out as the scheduled month arrives. Plan play and diversion. Play is an important part in education. Early in the year, know the date of your Ward Relief Society Conference and prepare the program to be used early enough for the ward to make a fine presentation. Anniversary Day plans: Planning for obtaining 100% membership dues; 100% teachers' visits and talking the topic; plans for better class leadership and getting members to read the lessons, so that better class participation will result; definite procedure plans of your meetings so that your reception committee is at their post, new members are made acquainted and welcome, preliminary music, songs that correlate with the theme of the day, time budgeted so that the ones who present the lesson have ample time and also limit themselves to their portion of the time; and last but not of least importance, prepare yourselves so that the spirit of love and prayer abides in your heart, for the spirit of good will and harmony is indispensable to every meeting. We must not become discouraged if we cannot acquire the results we should desire with the interferences RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE that are prevalent. We must be cognizant of the fact, however, that careful planning will lessen interferences and help toward perfection. It is the devoted artist, the one who thinks and feels and works that. Produces the masterpiece. Planning, seeking spiritual guidance and working will make your Relief Society a masterpiece. SISTER FLORA R. HICKS, of the Maricopa Stake, was called from the congregation to tell of the work in the Papago Ward, to which she and her husband have been called. Sister Hicks discussed most delightfully, the work among our Lamanite sisters. She related their needs, their hopes, their plans. These comprehend the extensive improvement of their temporal environment, and the lifting of the whole plane of life to higher ideals of social and spiritual betterment. 313 DEPARTMENT MEETINGS SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT Counselor Amy Brown Lyman, Chairman AN enthusiastic Department Meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, on Thursday afternoon, April 2, 1936. The address of Judge Hugo B. Anderson, explaining the underlying principles of the Federal Social Security Program as it operates in the Western States, will be published in full in the June issue of the Relief Society Magazine. How the plan functions in three representative Western States was presented by Alice H. Osborn, of the Los Angeles Welfare Department, for California; for Arizona, by Lenore S. Rogers, President of the Snowflake Stake Relief Society; and for Idaho, by Amy J. Hawkes, President of the Pocatello Stake Relief Society. Emeline Y. Nebeker of the General Board of Relief Society, and - the only woman on the Salt Lake County Relief Committee, outlined the plan of Social Welfare Administration as it functions through the counties of the State of Utah. Inez K. Allen, of the General Board, discussed "Relief Society Welfare Work," in a most helpful and delightfully humorous strain, calling attention to the great opportunities of Relief Society in the present time, to apply the spirit of sympathy, tolerance, courage, love, understanding, in fact all those virtues which have been the strength of the past, and are the hope of the present. Work AND BUSINESS DEPARTMENT Jennie B. Knight, Chairman A MOST successful meeting of this important Department of Relief Society was held in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, Thursday afternoon, April 2, 1936. The Work and Business Project of the Utah Stake Relief Society was graphically presented by Bessie E. Gourley, of the Stake Board. Great interest was added to this by the fine exhibit of some of the work accomplished. Amy W. Evans, General Board Member, who has charge of the Social Service Department of the General Board, discussed the problems of bedding, 314 clothing and other needs met by Relief Society, and called attention to the correlation of those with the Work and Business of Relief Society RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. President Louise Y. Robison expressed the real purpose and spirit of this in the following address. Purpose oF WorK AND BUSINESS President Louise Y. Robison HE history of people who have lived in times previous to our own is valuable to the extent that we profit by their experience. The Book of Mormon has many incidents of the manner of caring for the needy similar to the one found in Alma 1: 27-31. Nor need we go as far away as the Book of Mormon, for we have a most striking example in the history of the Church at Nauvoo. Bear in mind that the members of the Church had been driven from Kirtland to Missouri, from Liberty to Independence, and reached Nauvoo in 1839, only nine years after the organization of the Church. It is almost unbelievable that the Latterday Saints were in Nauvoo only seven years, and that during so short a time they built the beautiful Temple and many elegant homes, some of which still stand. There is a similarity in the way the people of Nauvoo cared for their needy, and the Book of Mormon history of the people under Alma. From the minutes of Relief Society, September 2, 1843, we read (see p. 30 Relief Society Handbook). In Utah there are 14,000 families, approximately 64,000 persons who, through drouth and other circum- | stances over which they have no control, are receiving Government help. A similar condition exists in many of our Western States. Nor can we draw a line and say: "On this side are the people who need assistance; on the other side all are in comfortable circumstances." If we face the situation squarely, what is the obvious requirement of Relief Society, remembering that we were organized to relieve distress? We have three fine courses of study, each one teaching us how to serve, the fourth?the Work and Business?gives us opportunity to serve. The cultural part of life must not be neglected?it never has been by our Church, but we must be sure that we are developing character as well as culture. In one of our Wards during very cold weather this past Winter, the Relief Society meeting was dismissed at the time the children were leaving school, just across the street from the meeting house. A delightful, helpful talk had been given in Relief Society on "Harmony of Colors," but a distressing sight met the eyes of these women. There were many little children leaving school who were cold, whose clothing was ragged and uncomfortable. Was the Relief Society in this Ward depriving themselves of the blessings that came to the people of Nephi and of Nauvoo? It is better, of course, to help people to help themselves, and this is another rich opportunity we have in Work and Business Meeting, to teach this constructive principle. In a school district here in Salt Lake, a project in. Adult Education was instituted. Most of the women who came wanted to learn to sew. Many of them were entirely ignorant of how to do even the simplest mending or sewing. This school district included two or three Wards, and many of the women were L. D. S. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Have you any women in your community who do not know how to sew? A fifteen-year-old girl came to the Relief Society office last Fall. She had no mother, but was herself trying to mother some little brothers and sisters on a very meager income. This fifteen-year-old girl had been invited to go on a camping trip with a Mutual group, but her coat lining was so ragged, she was embarrassed to go. Are you sure there are no motherless girls in your Ward whose coat linings are embarrassing? With very little imagination one would think the bedding in this home would require attention as well as the underwear of the children. The report came to our office only a short time ago that three little girls were sleeping in one bed because of insufficient bedding, and one of these children has Tuberculosis. I visited a Relief Society Ward Conference and heard the Secretary read the report of activities. Two quilts were made in that organization in the year 1935. There may, 315 of course, be no need for quilts in that Ward, but if little children sleep cold or go to school in ragged and insufficient clothing, the Work and Business of that Ward is not functioning. The challenge is to Presidents and Work and Business Supervisors to - find the need. Human interests are most vital and appealing. There will be no lack of response if leaders will realize the rich opportunity of service to "the least of these." The call for service is as great today as in the time of Alma, or when the Saints were in Nauvoo. The responsibility is ours. Relief Society has never shirked a duty. Let us pray for ability to succor those in need, that the cries of the widows and orphans may not ascend to our Father in Heaven against us. As Relief Society women may we hear the stirring call of the Servant of the Grail, when he aroused the young men about him: "Come let us thank our God that we have the power to hear the call of Life, and power to answer as the duty calls." MAGAZINE DEPARTMENT Counselor Kate M. Barker, Chairman HIS very interesting Department was held in the Ladies' Gym, Deseret Gymnasium, at 1:30 p. M., on Thursday, April 2, 1936. This was the first time a Department for the Magazine had been held during the Relief Society Conference, and it was a most inspirational gathering. Instructions bearing upon the special work of the Magazine Agents MARY C. KIMBALL, Editor of the Relief Society Magazine, pointed out the value of having a printed voice and that every effort were given under the different headings. Earl J. Glade gave one of his delightful and characteristic addresses on "'Salesmanship." Special attention should be called to the presentation of Magazine awards by President Louise Y. Robison. The response of the prize winners to the subject ""How We Won," embodied many interesting and constructive suggestions. Was put forth to print in the Magazine wholesome, uplifting, helpful material of as fine a literary standard and of as great variety as possible. 316 She also pointed out that many biographical sketches come in of very fine women who have served in the organization for a long period of time. There are hundreds, if not thousands, of such women and it is impossible to print sketches of the lives of all of them. Each biographical sketch submitted should have a general appeal and not be of interest only to those who know and love the subject of the sketch. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The space in the Magazine is very limited. Hundreds more articles are submitted than can be used. Very often poems or short articles are sent in that have been written for some special occasion, the setting and spirit made them very much enjoyed, but they are often not of enough literary merit to be worthy of publication in the Magazine and often they appeal only to the people of the ward or stake where they were given. PLACE OF THE MAGAZINE IN OUR EDUCATIONAL WORK Counselor Kate M. Barker "THE RELIEF SOCIETY is one of the greatest schools for leadership training. It is training for leadership in the home, and for this purpose a broad educational program is outlined and lessons written. These lessons are published in the Relief Society Magazine. Just as the chart and compass are necessary for the sea captain, so the Magazine is necessary for every officer and teacher. But the organization is a cooperative society. All are training for leadership and leadership is only developed by action. Every member needs the Magazine that she may contribute to the lessons. But there is still a broader field of educational work for the Magazine. One of the great responsibilities of the Relief Society is to aid in "Developing Christian homes in which Christian personality may develop." One of the greatest tasks in which any organization may engage is that of helping parents lift their family life to a higher spiritual plane. Most parents take their responsibility seriously. They are eager for help and more and more are coming to realize that children are shaped mentally and spiritually by the atmosphere of the home. Manners, personal views, prejudices, ideals?all make for the spirit of the home?become part of all, as naturally as the air we breathe. The spirit of the home is determined largely by what we read and what we talk about in the home. Literature is judged by its content and its form. Judged from the former standard the Magazine is good literature. It is wholesome from cover to cover. Adults and children alike need such reading material. Character is not something gained and then enjoyed forever. Character is growth and growth means ideals and most of us are short on ideals. Conversation in the home must be guided but not "preachy." If it is not guided, it is apt to be aimless or degenerate into gossip. To guide the conversation so that the spirit of the home is right, there must be worthwhile subjects to talk about. The Magazine in its editorials, stories, and articles furnish such material on a wide range of subjects. There are many women whom the Relief Society has not yet reached. The Magazine may be one way of converting them to the value of membership. There are many young mothers who are not affiliated with the organization. They may be reached through the Magazine. The last number had three splendid articles of especial interest to these young mothers and home makers. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE No work in Relief Society is more important than getting Church ideals into the homes through the Magazine. Our agents should have a high conception of their task. The success 317 of their work is not to be counted alone in the tangible results of subscriptions obtained, but rather in the intangible help given and ideals planted in the homes. PROBLEMS OF THE CIRCULATION MANAGER Kate M. Newman, Circulation Manager, Relief Society Magazine N mailing the Magazine, we desire to give you the best possible service, and ask your cooperation in helping us to be able to comply with the Post Office requirements, as they will not deliver the Magazine to you unless we do so. It is very necessary to have the name and proper address written plainly and correctly. Sometimes we receive a name and address that is almost impossible to read or copy. Do not abbreviate streets such as "Was." It can mean either Washington or Wasatch. Give the correct address and do not guess at numbers. We have hundreds of renewals each year with one figure different than it was the previous year, such as 742 or 746 East 2nd South. Now we are at a loss to know which is correct, and can not imagine so many people move such a short distance. Be exact: For example, I received a subscription with the name ''Sarah Jones Rush." We mailed the Magazine to this name but it was returned marked "no such person."' We then referred to the list, wrote to the agent and waited for a reply which came telling us that the name was Sarah Jones and the word "rush," although written with a capital "R" with no separation from the name, meant to rush the Magazine to her. We have lists of 3 or 4 names sent to us, for example, we will say from Warren, Arizona. We mail the Magazines, but later receive a complaint that one lady has not received hers, We write to the agent and finally learn that she lives in Bisbee instead of Warren, Arizona, although there was no indication of this on the list sent in to us. Also among a list of about 60 names from a large city with street numbers, such as San Francisco, California, will be one name with no indication that it does not belong with the others. It is returned to us, and we write to the agent and find the lady's address is Logan, Utah instead of San Francisco, Cal. In the meantime the lady is waiting for her Magazine, the fault not being with the mailing department. Sometimes we receive subscriptions without the name of the town, only the name of the ward given. This is not sufficient. I have a record of one sent this way, and it took 2 months for me to locate the subscriber, as there was nothing but the name of the ward on it to indicate where it came from. If you do not receive your magazine at the regular mailing time, don't fail to notify us at once. By doing so, as a rule, we are able to supply you with one, locate the trouble and rectify it immediately. When one waits six months, or as we have had them do, come to us after one or two years time, it is hard to correct a mistake of this kind. We cannot make good or replace Magazines after six months. On several occasions, we have a name and address sent to us and we mail the Magazine for several months, then receive a notice that the 318 Magazine is going to the wrong person, and that it should be sent to some one else. In the meantime the lady who has received the Magazines has failed to take care of them, so they cannot be returned to the rightful owner. She, having paid for them, is entitled to her full number, so the office replaces them and is the loser. One very important matter which is an expense to the Office and needs the help of the agent, is the duplication of Magazines to a subscriber. If every agent would keep the stub on her receipt book filled out correctly when giving a receipt to her subscriber, she would have a record to refer to when filling out a renewal subscription blank, and it would eliminate the sending of 2 Magazines for the same month to many women. It is customary in the office when a subscription comes in and does not state which month to commence with, to mail the current number. It is impossible for us to look up each subscriber and see if their renewal is for the current month. I personally feel that it is a part of the agents' work to state which number to commence the subscription with. Be as accurate as you can, and do not let us mail the Magazine for two or three months, then write and say you did not want them to commence until later. We have this happen occasionally and when on a list of about fifty names, it is quite a loss. Occasionally we receive a check or money order without any name or address. Please advise agents that we will gladly furnish subscription blanks and would be pleased to have them send all subscriptions in on these blanks with the complete name and address given. It is felt that Stake and Ward Magazine agents can help to eliminate extra work and expense as well as dissatisfaction among subscribers, by cooperating with the Magazine office. We do appreciate the interest taken as well as the service given by all concerned, and hope to give service to all that will be satisfactory in every way possible.
CHORISTERS' AND ORGANISTS' DEPARTMENT Ida Peterson Beal, Chairman
The theme for this Department was: "The Union Meeting?What it can do for Choristers and Organists." From far and near Choristers and Organists had gathered to obtain instructions that would make them more efficient in their labors. From their enthusiasm, and the many questions asked, it was evident that they realize their responsibility in placing music on the same high plane as that of the wonderful work developed by the class leaders of our educational program. Definite and helpful instructions were given by Ida Peterson Beal, Elise B. Alder and Alta B. Cassity. Charlotte O. Sackett used the major portion of the time in giving valuable and constructive suggestions on the problems pertaining to group singing, breathing, tone quality, rhythm, etc. The songs selected for the year's activity are the following: "The Morning Breaks," Evan Stephens; "Zion Stands With Hills Surrounded;" "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief;" "On the Bend of the River," (Words, Ruth May Fox; Music, Frances W. Champ); Trios: "In the Time of Roses"?Old German Melody; "The Old Refrain," Fritz Kreisler.
WHAT THE UNION MEETING CAN DO FOR THE ORGANIST Janet M. Thompson, Member of General Board
The Union Meeting is essentially a preparation meeting. It serves as a point of contact for definite instruction and help. It functions as a guiding and directing force. It permits of discussion of uniform as well as special problems. The Music Section affords opportunity to improve our work?to develop yearly, monthly and weekly objectives. This department can?Inspire, encourage and help organists to secure practical knowledge and skill. Keep them informed as to the needs, the strength and weakness of music in Stake. Seek suggestions from Ward organists in order to unify work. Challenge the interest of the class. Renew enthusiasm, build for more efficient service and constantly stimulate in order to avoid indifference. A wise musician will study the life story of the composer. A well-planned music department will develop the spiritual and educational background of all music used. If possible organists should have ten minutes at each Union Meeting for discussion of their problems. Probably one of the common problems is the preliminary music. It has much to do with the spirit of the meeting?it should prepare us for thought and reflection?stir devotion and transmit a spiritual message to the congregation. The organist brings the first message of the day with preliminary voluntary. Does it create the proper atmosphere for the meeting?does it add dignity to the occasion? How carefully have we planned the first message? They should consider what to play and how to play it. Choice of music has a great deal to do with the success of the meeting. It involves three requirements?it must suit the congregation, suit ourselves, and must be fitting to the occasion. The playing of music should be a positive element?the congregation is receptive and ready to be influenced. John Ruskin said, "Technique is only skill, art is mystery and spiritual power. The performer's task is to bring out the special quality of beauty that lies in music."
PRESIDENTS' BREAKFAST President Louise Y. Robison, Presiding
This very important gathering of the Relief Society was held in the Recreation Room of the Lion House, Friday morning, April 3, 1936. The tables were bright with Spring flowers in the gold and blue tints. The menu was delicious, and the entertainment of a most unusual character. Selections from the operetta "One Eternal Round," written by Gertrude O. Keeler and Nell S. Hatch, of Juarez Stake Relief Society, were directed by Mrs. R. A. Brower of Wells Stake. The occasion was delightful in every respect, and memorable from the resolution which was proposed by Jennie B. Knight and passed unanimously.
RECRUITING OUR RANKS Jennie B. Knight, Member of the General Board
Dear Presidents: The members of the General Board are deeply impressed with what you and your groups have accomplished, and like you, they are vitally interested in the future responsibilities of this very important organization. You select women, are pace-setters, and upon you depends the success of our unparalleled program for the betterment of the family which is still the most important agency of civilization. There is some indifference to our cause among the women of the Church, and time's relentless stream is bearing many of those we love away, and as always, there is need of recruiting our ranks in order that the work may go steadily on. We encourage you in the methods you have adopted in increasing your membership and wish now to call your special attention to a rich source from which to recruit new members?namely, our daughters. To this end it is proposed that we inaugurate a Daughters' Day in all the Relief Societies of the Church. The event has two purposes: first, to magnify the blessing of Motherhood; second, to have daughters, who are not members of the Society, give the program, as a means of interesting them in the activities of the Society so that later they will be anxious to join our ranks. It is desired that you do not change the programs for this event, but that those outlined in the Magazine be used. After the regular business of the day, the entire program, including special music or other features, should be given by the daughters as "guest artists." It is proposed that the day to be set apart as Daughters' Day should be the anniversary of the birth of the General Relief Society President who has given the most daughters to the world. Upon investigation we find this falls upon the anniversary of the birth of Clarissa Smith Williams, the sixth General President, who was the mother of eight daughters. The day is April 21st. It would be a gracious thing if some of the members, the visiting teachers, or neighbors, would occasionally volunteer to care for the little children so that daughters may attend and participate in the activities of the organization. After favorable comment by the Stake Presidents, it was voted unanimously to adopt this plan.
FIRST GENERAL SESSION
WHAT RELIEF SOCIETY MEANS TO THE WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Radie O. Hyde, Pres. Ensign Stake Relief Society
First, may I ask this question, "What does the Relief Society mean to its members?" It means service in its noblest sense; service to God's children, therefore service to God. And through that service rich opportunity for development of self. "I was an hungered and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger and ye took me in, naked and ye clothed me; I was sick and ye visited me; I was in prison and ye came unto me." Thus spoke our Savior in ancient times, but in our time, that same cry of gratitude and thanksgiving has sprung from the throats of thousands of our people and too, the strangers within our gates, who have been fed and clothed and released from prisons of doubt and despair by a great band of Relief Society women engaged in Christ-like service In the early days of the Church when the people were so persecuted, when sickness was rampant with no adequate facilities for combating it, when immigrants were arriving almost daily who must be fed and housed until they could provide homes of their own, the women of the organization had little time for anything but welfare work; however here was a wonderful opportunity for service and because they gave it, and gave it willingly, they came to love it. No night was too long to sit by the bed side of a sick friend or neighbor and minister to his needs and no disease was so dangerous but these same women willingly performed those last loving services of washing and preparing for burial their dead. The educational field has not been neglected. In those first early days even when the women met and planned their welfare work, they discussed current topics of interest and did much to promote faith in each other through testimony bearing; however in reading of the growth and development of the Relief Society we find that many constructive and educational movements, each of particular interest to the women of their time, were undertaken, some of which were national and international in scope. Various other activities too numerous to mention, called for service of a high order. With the introduction of a definite educational program in 1914 new fields of opportunity were opened to our women, until today we might say, that in extent it reaches into the past with an interest in those who made possible the organization, covers the present with an interest in the living, and extends into the future with an interest in the unborn. And now we might ask, What does this constant giving in the interest of others mean to the women of our organization in terms of self? It means spiritual and intellectual development that cannot be measured. And why, we may ask this development? "Give and ye shall receive," that is the law of growth and development, of happiness, and love. Charles H. Spurgeon, the London preacher, graphically illustrates this perfect law of compensation in these words, "If we view the human body we shall find that the heart does not receive the blood to store it up, but while it pumps it into one valve it sends it forth to another. The blood is always circulating, never stagnant. So it is with all the secretions of the body. If the cells should begin to store their secretions that store would soon become the cause of disease and the organ would soon lose its power to function at all. The whole of the human system lives by giving. Let us learn then from this analogy of nature, the lesson, that to get we must give; that to accumulate we must scatter, that to make ourselves happy we must make others happy; and that to get good and become spiritually vigorous, we must do good and seek the spiritual good of others." Perhaps the first great virtue that this gratuitous service engenders in the hearts of our women is charity; not alone the charity of alms giving, but that greater charity written of so beautifully by Paul; the charity that embraces kindness, patience, humility, forgiveness?all the graces in a lesser degree perhaps, which characterized the greatest Servant of all, Jesus Christ. Affiliation with the Relief Society develops some of the finest social contacts one could ask for, without which many humble modest souls would have little or no social life. Especially is this true of the work department which also offers wonderful opportunities for the development of creative thinking and planning. Service in the Relief Society develops responsibility, and responsibility develops undreamed of powers. The educational department offers rich opportunity for intellectual development; opportunity not only for acquiring knowledge but of even more importance, opportunity for self expression, initiative, and leadership, thus helping our women to discover in themselves gifts and talents of which they were wholly unaware. Spiritual development is a natural outgrowth of service in the Relief Society. Woven into the very fabric of the whole organization like a golden thread woven in a beautiful carpet, giving it color and warmth and life, is this wondrous, intangible thing we call spirituality; the thing that sets it apart from all other women's organizations. It is this spiritual development of the women that has taught them the joy of sacrifice, given them courage to combat opposition, and the strength to meet adversity. Indeed we might say that spirituality is to the Relief Society what the late B. H. Roberts says Revelation is to the Church, "The source of her strength, the secret of her power, the means of her growth." Jesus Christ it was who dignified service, devoting his life to teaching and blessing doubting, suffering humanity, but through that service he developed a personality so effective that even today, centuries after his death, he is being increasingly accepted. It may not be within the power of our women to serve and develop through that service as did Jesus Christ, but it is within their power to so serve that when the time comes for them to meet their Maker, he may say to them, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren ye have done it unto me," "Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." What the Relief Society means to its members in terms of service, and through that service development of self, it may mean to each woman in the Church if she so chooses, and my humble prayer is that more and more, the women of the Church will come to a fuller understanding of, and a greater appreciation for, the worth-whileness of the Relief Society Organization.
OUR HERITAGE Lotta Paul Baxter, Member General Board
Over 55 years ago a little girl watched with mingled admiration and wonder, a woman hurry through her household tasks in order to have time to go out and do something for the sick and the needy. Just what that work consisted of was also mystifying. That it had a great appeal was self-evident, and seemed to bring satisfaction and comfort to the woman. The little girl resolved that when she grew to womanhood, she too would do that kind of work. I was that little girl, and the happy, resourceful Relief Society worker was my mother. We were not different from scores of other mothers and daughters. We represented a type?a type that is legion throughout the Church. But is this desire of daughters to follow in the footsteps of their mothers increasing or diminishing? Have our big interests in life been of great enough importance to inspire our daughters eagerly to follow us? This Relief Society work is an heritage given to us by such women as these: Emma Smith, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa S. Williams, Louise Y. Robison, and our own mothers and grandmothers. Are we willing to let this heritage slip from our hands that it may be given to another people? Are we holding high the torch of enthusiasm that illuminates this work? Do we help our daughters to leave their children on Relief Society day? Let us make Tuesday a mothers' and daughters' day the year round and bind closer this sacred tie of relationship. Youth and age should mingle together?youth to be inspired by the achievements and experiences of age, maturity and age to seek the youth in order to partake of youthful vision, hope and enthusiasm. Are clubs and other interests encroaching upon our field of activity? With no thought of depreciating the worth of these other organizations which women are interested in, and rightly so, we still maintain that we have a program of such varied interests that the needs and desires of all women can find expression herein. Our Work and Business day can be made one of the busiest, happiest and most productive days in the month. Our Singing Mothers chorus offers opportunities not readily found in the average organization. Our Theology and Testimony, Literature, Social Service, and Teachers' Topic lessons offer the members an avenue of inspiration to better and more profound reading and research than is found in other courses of study. I wish to pay my tribute of appreciation to the ward workers, who are constantly searching out the women who seem to have been forgotten and bringing them into the fold. Let us be just as diligent in seeing that our daughters are enthusiastic, happy Relief Society workers. A few thoughts for the coming summer: More enthusiasm for the possibilities of Relief Society; Magnify the value of youth and age learning and working together; Make Tuesday a mothers' and daughters' day during the entire year; Recognize Relief Society as an heritage in its fullest sense.
FORWARD Mary C. Kimball
Objectives shape the destiny of individuals, organizations and causes. The objectives of the Relief Society were set forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith and its first president, Emma Smith. These objectives are as wide as humanity, as far-reaching as the needs of God's children. They embrace the intellectual and the spiritual. They foster love of God and love of fellow men. Who with such goals marked out could fail to reach the heights? Since the organization there has been a forward march in an effort to realize the objectives thus set forth. The organization more nearly approaches its standards today than ever before. As we look back we realize that the history of the organization is glorious, and that it has ever pressed forward. The obligation today is to build on the splendid foundation laid by those who have labored in the past, so that the super structure shall be as fine as the foundation merits. If we would go forward, we must not get into ruts. If we would meet the needs of the present and the future, we must not think because something was good yesterday that it necessarily is the best thing for today. We must learn to face things squarely, think them through clearly, and thus meet every problem as it arises in the best possible way. We must not think because the Government has done so much for its people that the service angle of Relief Society is a thing of the past. There are still children who need clothing; there are still mothers who need to be trained in sewing and household arts; there are still those who need bread, and perhaps more than ever before there are many who need spiritual uplift. While the great educational program in the past has served more people than have been reached by looking after their physical needs, the call for all officers and members today is to go out into their wards and bring in those who are not being benefited by this great organization. There are thousands of women in the Church who need an outlet for their talents and ability, for their handicraft and mental and spiritual gifts which this organization affords. While thousands of women have learned to think intelligently on their feet and to express themselves clearly and have learned to appreciate the Gospel more thoroughly, to drink in the beauties of literature, to know how complex are the social problems of life, there are many who have not yet been reached. They should be brought in and be made vitally interested and active. There are many who are attending our organizations who are timid and backward and who need to be brought forward and to find joy in participating in the class work. A big percentage should take part in the lesson work. Teaching should be more effective that the things taught may be put into life. More religion should be brought to people who are spiritually starved. Every Relief Society officer and member should resolve to: speak more kindly, pray oftener, carry love and optimism, keep closer contact with the divine. The Relief Society women, because of their great organization and the unity with which they press forward, have greater power than any other women in the world to preserve, cherish and promote civilization, to increase spirituality, to uplift the community and to press forward purposefully. So forward this great organization marches, learning each week more about life, about its ideals and its problems, doing the needed things, knowing that for "web begun God sends the thread," having ever a sense of eternity which makes for deep thinking and noble living.
RELIEF SOCIETY AWAKE TO CIVIC RESPONSIBILITIES Hazel H. Greenwood
Today when woman is entering successfully into various fields of labor in the professions and the business world, it is necessary for her to acquaint herself with the underlying principles of government and to actively engage in movements that will safeguard and build up the community and the home. The world has made greater progress in the last one hundred years than in any similar length of time in all history. But there is no material progress in that time greater than the progress woman herself has made. This has been due to the position she herself has earned. She is equipped to take a prominent place in public and civic affairs as well as in her home, by her education and training. Woman's greatest province is the home. There her interest centers. To do her part well, she must understand the forces that tend to strengthen the home as well as those seeking to undermine it. She must understand the influences surrounding her family both for good and for evil. It has been said, "The destiny and greatness of America lies around the hearthside." The mother must reach outside the home and study conditions in order to maintain freedom and security within. Voting is one of the privileges of citizenship. The Constitution of Utah granted to women the full right of suffrage. Under the 19th Amendment to the Federal Constitution ratified in 1920 this right was granted to all citizens of the United States regardless of sex. To vote should be regarded by all women as a duty. As long as people who know what is right fail to vote we shall have many things as they should not be. With the changes that have come in economic conditions and the status of women, we have more time for social service of which we are becoming conscious, thus enlarging the mother office, to world ministry. If our Relief Society women throughout the world could fully realize their responsibility, they could be an indomitable force in rehabilitation and raising the standards in all communities. Women of our Church have good conscientious leaders and through their direction the Relief Society will find opportunities to expand their work and to study not only benevolent and religious activity but the manifold duties of every-day life. No other church devotes so much time in training for leadership as ours. No other church emphasizes home making as does our Church. Let us see that we are prepared for this leadership. Our women must rise above prejudice and fault-finding. Find out the facts and base judgments on them. Study local needs and situations and create a sentiment for better conditions. Inform yourselves on the processes of Government. How best to serve our community through our home and our Church is the problem of today. To do this in the best way is to actively take part in the affairs of government by using our franchise, to take part in the social service in our communities through its organizations and educational facilities and to train ourselves to assume leadership.
ALCOHOL EDUCATION Judge Oscar W. McConkie