Book Binding By Bertha B. Asper Art Supervisor of Salt Lake Stake Relief Society
There are three major steps in book binding: first, making a press and preparing the magazines; second, sewing; third, making the case, gluing and covering the book. To make the press take a flat piece of board 7x14 inches and one inch thick. At the sides of the front corners nail securely a one-inch square strip of board 12 inches high. To these strips nail a piece of the same at the top as cross bar. Bore three small holes ? inch from the front of the board two inches apart. Hammer three nails in the front one-inch depth, just to the side of the holes. Thread a piece of binders' twine through each hole and tie the end to the nail, then fasten the other end tightly to the cross bar. Make two smooth slats 9x2 inches. In these slats make five grooves. The holes in the platform and the grooves in the slats must correspond. Now remove the wire staples from the Magazine and slip off just the outside cover. If you take the ad sheets, you destroy the index and sometimes lesson work or valuable articles from the back of the Magazine. It is easier to sew the ads in and keep the index than to paste the sheets in that would otherwise be detached. The General Board have index sheets printed for each volume to which you are welcome. They have many indexes left for the years 1923-30, but most of the indexes for the other years have been called for. Before taking your Magazine apart be sure you can get the index. To use these indexes, carefully separate the ad section and the back sheets of the Magazine and cut them apart. Now paste the back printed sheets on the Magazine again in place. Put just a fine line of paste along the cut edge of the sheet and place in position pressing well to the back. Arrange the Magazines in order with the index sheet first, then January through December. Holding between the thumb and fingers, jump them on the table, bumping the folded edges, or backbone, then the top ends of the Magazines until edges and back folds are all even. Place one slat on the upper side, the other slat on the under side of the twelve numbers, the grooves in the slats to the folded edges of the Magazines. Be sure not one Magazine slips in. Hold in position with quilting frame clamps while you saw through the Magazines at the five grooves in slats, deep enough to go through the very inner pages. With the press ready and the Magazines all in order we are now ready to sew. A bodkin or darning needle, and crochet cotton No. 5 waxed is a good thread. The flatter we can make the Magazines, the thinner our finished book will be. Hammer well, or press with hot iron or run several times through the wringer (each Magazine separately). With the index sheet face down on the platform, find the center fold. Insert the needle in the first hole, out the second and over the binders' twine, back into the second hole, out the third, over the binders' twine and out the fourth, over the twine, back in the fourth and out the fifth hole. Now go back with the January number face down. In the fifth hole, out the fourth, over the twine back in the fourth, out the third and so on till we finish out first hole. Tie thread securely. Draw all threads tight each time. Repeat with the February number as we did the index. When we finish the fifth hole pull the thread tight and then slip the needle between the index and the January number in a button hole stitch. Continue the same, number after number through December. Always pull thread tight after each number and button hole to the Magazine preceding. Stitch several times extra after December number and cut thread. Several volumes could be sewed on the press without changing the twine, but each book must be tied securely and thread cut before starting another volume. Cut the binders' twine, leaving one inch on each side of volume. A piece of drawing paper, suitable wall or ceiling 9x12 inches folded through the center to fit the Magazine makes the fly leaves or end sheets. Paste the folded edges of the end sheets and put one of these on each side of the book, folded edges together. Comb out the one inch ends of the binders' twine and paste down tight and smooth to the fly leaves. Now if you have a printer in your vicinity, or perhaps your town newspaper will trim the edges even, your finished book will be more even. To Bind: The glue pot, which should be placed over a pan of hot water. Use flexible glue. The glue should be moderately hot and not too thick. Glue the backbone, getting well in the cracks. When dry, pound with a hammer. Place the book flat on the table and with your left hand on the book draw toward your body, as you pound the backbone. Turn the book over and repeat. Turn several times. This gives the round to the backbone. The top of the backbone is a piece of heading, a strip of cloth to finish the edge. You may substitute something with a strong edge that will not break, or a cross wise strip of cotton cloth glued and folded over on itself with a cord through the center. Hold the book together at the top of the backbone and glue ? inch down. Stretch a piece of heading across where we have glued high enough to top the folded edges of the book. Be careful to tuck the ends down as these must not be seen. Glue backbone and apply a piece of super cloth the entire length. Cut super cloth wide enough to cover backbone and extend 1? inches over the end paper on each side, very smooth and tight. Super cloth is crinoline or starched cheese cloth. Cut two strips of heavy paper (the cover of the Magazine is good) wide enough to cover the rounded back. Glue one of these strips and place over the super cloth, just under the top edge of the heading and trim off just under the edge of the heading at the other end. Now rub well with a clothes pin to shape the backbone. Now for the case. The fabricoid or whatever material used should be cut at least 10x15 inches. The cardboards should be cut 6x9 inches. Measure across the glued backbone of the book, then allow ? inch on each side. The width of this strip makes the back section. Cut another piece of cardboard this width and as long as your book. (Work on a newspaper.) Place this strip on the cover material, centers even. While this strip is in position, place the cardboards on the material close to the strip and true up your margins. Mark along top edges of cardboards with white ink, red lead pencil or something that can be seen through glue. Mark down side of back section using those lines as a guide. Remove one cardboard and center section and glue just this part of material. Work from center out. Replace cardboard, top edge and back edge matching guide lines. Remove other cardboard and do the same. By doing one side at a time it prevents material curling and is easier to work with. The top edges must be straight. Glue center and place other strip of Magazine cover. Remove newspaper. Miter the corners of the material and turn all edges over on the cardboard, press smoothly. Place the book in the case so that all edges extend evenly. With the book flat, open the top cover back, place a newspaper under just the first fly leaf, glue surface and bring cover over, remove newspaper. With your thumb press firmly in the groove at the back of the boards. Turn book over and repeat. Press well in the grooves with the blunt edge of a case knife or a clothes pin. Dry under pressure. For a limp cover the method is the same until you get to the boards. Put the strip down the center of the leatherette. Place your book and glue the fly leaves the same as we did for the boards. The Deseret News have prepared bundles, enough of everything for twelve volumes, for $3.15, postage extra.