As the reader turns the pages the characters step out and stand just in front of book as she speaks, forming semicircle on each side of book. MUSIC While Eve and Rebecca speak the "Largo" is played very softly on the organ. While Sariah speaks "Guide Us O Thou Great Jehovah" is played. While Mary speaks "Silent Night" is played, changing back to "The Largo" for the Pilgrim. While Lucy Mack speaks "Praise to the Man Who Communed with Jehovah" is played, with "Largo" again for Nancy Hanks. "Come, Come Ye Saints" is played while the Pioneer Mother speaks and while the Mother of Today speaks "The Old Refrain" is played. After the Epilogue, while the characters are still standing "Mother O' Mine" by Rudyard Kipling is sung by a soloist. COSTUMES EVE is dressed in a white robe with trailing vines of green ivy leaves to resemble fig leaves and she has leaves in her hair. REBECCA is dark and wears a costume of ancient times with bracelets on her arms and chains about her neck. She wears a scarf on her head in turban style and has a pitcher or jar on her shoulder. SARIAH wears a costume of ancient style but it is brown and she wears a band around her forehead. MARY wears a pale blue robe with blue veil on her hair and carries a lily. PILGRIM MOTHER wears black dress with white cap and white kerchief crossed over her breast. LUCY MACK wears a small white bonnet and a large white apron that ties around her waist. She should look old. NANCY HANKS should be slender and with a kind and spiritual face. Her hair is smoothed back with a coil at back. She wears a full skirt, faded and old looking. PIONEER MOTHER wears a large full skirt and a basque with a sunbonnet. MOTHER OF TODAY wears costume of today. READER wears costume of today. READER: The influence of woman cannot be overestimated. Never did a great man live but some woman, either mother, wife or sister was an effective instrument in shaping the events of his life. I have here a book containing the sketches of some of the women whose power has been great in moulding the destiny of men and nations. As I turn the pages they will speak for themselves. I am Eve, the mother of all mankind. I dwelt with Adam in the Garden of Eden and walked and talked with God. Of all the wondrous fruit that grew in the garden, God said we might partake freely except the fruit of the one tree that grew in the middle of the garden. Of this fruit we were forbidden to eat. I have received much criticism throughout the ages because I did partake of this forbidden fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil. But I transgressed this commandment of the Father knowingly in order to fulfill a higher law. God's first great commandment to us was to multiply and replenish the earth. Had we not fallen we would not have had children and we would have remained in the garden in innocence and ignorance forever. True, we were driven from our beautiful home because of our transgression, but we were now given the opportunity to subdue the earth and have dominion over it and reap the fruits of our labors. We had lived in innocence, keeping a garden that was already perfect. Now we experienced joy because we felt sorrow, we could appreciate the sweet because we had tasted the bitter, we knew comfort because we suffered pain, we enjoyed rest because we performed labor. Life was hard for us because we had many things to learn, but when I looked into the face of my first little boy, I knew I was glad of things as they were. I could see though, as my children grew older, that there would be trouble between them. Cain had a harsh, envious disposition and he always held hard feelings toward his brother Abel. And when one day in a fit of jealous anger, he slew Abel, I thought my punishment was almost more than I could bear. However, I was later comforted by the birth of other children who were a joy to me and beloved by God. And when my days and years were many and I was ready to go down into my grave, my heart was comforted, for I knew that the ways of God were just. I knew that in the meridian of time a Savior would come into the world to redeem mankind from our fall. Reader turns page and Rebecca is there. I am Rebecca, the mother of Israel. I spent my girlhood in Haran in the land of Mesopotamia, with my mother and my brother Laban, who was also my guardian, because of my father's death when I was a child. One evening after I had become a young woman when I, with many other damsels had gone down to the wells at the gates of the city to draw water, as was our custom, a stranger who had traveled from afar came and asked a drink from us. The other damsels refused haughtily, but a strange feeling seemed to possess me and I chided them for their selfishness and gave drink to the stranger and drew water that his camels might be refreshed also. Then he asked me whose daughter I was and he was much rejoiced when I told him to what house I belonged. He then said that the Lord had chosen me to be the wife of his master's son, Isaac, and had given a sign unto him. Then he gave me beautiful jewels and he told me of his master Abraham, who was my father's kinsman, who had left this land long ago. In my country many were worshipers of idols, even my brother, Laban had idols. But I, like my father who was dead, worshiped the true God I had heard much talk of Abraham, of his worship and his prosperity and of the blessings that had been promised him. A great joy filled my being and an intense desire to be a partaker of these blessings also. So I led the stranger to my mother's house where there was plenty of room for him and both straw and provender for his camels. My mother and brother welcomed him warmly and he told them of Abraham and Sarah and of his mission in our land. It was left for me to decide whether or not I should go with the stranger; with a great joy in my heart I departed with him the next day. When I saw Isaac I loved him for he was stalwart and handsome, and he loved me. After several years twin boys were born to us and we named the elder Esau and the younger Jacob. Isaac loved Esau and I loved Jacob. Esau grew up to be a cunning hunter but rough and harsh, and Jacob became a shepherd, quiet and gentle. The word of the Lord came to me that two peoples should spring from my sons. One people should be stronger than the other and the older should serve the younger. I was glad in my heart for it was as I wished. Esau took for himself wives from among the Canaanite people who, like Hagar, were of the lineage who could not hold the priesthood of God. So Esau threw away his birthright as the promises to Abraham could not be fulfilled through his seed. At last Isaac became old and grew blind and feeble and he wished to give Esau his rightful blessing. Isaac was only to be an instrument of God in pronouncing the blessing upon Esau and I knew this blessing belonged to Jacob. So I had Jacob go to his father and deceive him, which could be done because of his blindness. Jacob hesitated greatly at doing this but I insisted that he should receive the birthright blessing. It was God's blessing and God could not be deceived. My plan succeeded and Isaac pronounced the first blessing upon the head of Jacob under divine inspiration. I knew the purpose of the Lord had been accomplished. Then as I became old there was great satisfaction in my heart for I saw that Jacob was the chosen one and I had been an instrument in God's hands in obtaining the blessing for the one to whom it rightly belonged. Reader turns page and finds Sariah. I am Sariah, mother of the American remnant of the house of Joseph. My early home was in Jerusalem and we lived there in much comfort and luxury for my husband was blessed with an abundance of worldly goods. It was a great trial to me and to all of my family when we were called by the Lord to leave our beautiful home and all that was dear to us and journey out into the wilderness. But the life of my husband had been threatened many times because he taught righteousness, and the Lord showed him in a vision the destruction of Jerusalem. Although I had great faith in the Lord and trusted my husband implicitly, it was not until my boys returned from Jerusalem the second time with the plates of Laban which they had been sent to obtain, that I really felt reconciled to our journey into the unknown. We were called to pass through many trials and hardships and many times my heart yearned for our old home again. Often our food ran out and we subsisted for days at a time on berries and fruits which we found along the way. Each day's journey was long and hard and there was continual trial from the complaints and murmurings of some of our people. But it seemed the limit of our endurance was reached when, after wandering in the wilderness for eight long years, we reached the sea and it was made known to us that we must build a boat and cross this vast expanse of water. My boys, Laman and Lemuel, were a continual source of worry to their father and me, for they were always wanting to turn back and they forever blamed their father and their brother, Nephi, for everything that went wrong or did not please them. Their hearts were not all bad but sometimes it seemed as though the evil one had a very strong hold upon them. After being upon the water many days, during which time it seemed that all the powers of darkness were doing their utmost to destroy us and when we had almost despaired of ever setting our feet upon land again, we came to a most beautiful and inviting shore. We lifted up our voices in joy and thanksgiving that we had been led away from the land of iniquity to this beautiful place. We very soon discovered that it truly was a land of promise, for we found there everything that our hearts could desire. The weather was warm and pleasant and we found many curious fruits which were desirable for food. We found many beasts that would be useful to us. The soil was very fertile so that when we sowed our crops we reaped abundant harvests. We explored the wilderness and discovered rich ores in the rocks, and of the gold Nephi was commanded to make plates upon which he kept a record of our people. For a time it seemed that all our difficulties and troubles were over and we felt that the Lord had indeed blessed us. But before long dissensions broke out again. Laman and Lemuel and their followers were again rebellious and the feeling between the two groups became so bitter that they decided to separate and each follow their own way. This proved to be a better arrangement, but there was always enmity between the two. And the followers of Laman and Lemuel did not serve the Lord nor keep His commandments. Although my heart ached for my wayward children, I knew that the work of the Lord would go on. I knew that there must be a divine purpose in this divinely guided pilgrimage, and I was proud to be the mother of the great and mighty people that my family was destined to become. Reader turns page and discovers Mary. I am Mary, the mother of Jesus, the Redeemer of the world. Through me all motherhood is honored, and by my part in the eternal plan, reverence has come to all womankind. My joys have been greater and my sorrows deeper than those of any other mother upon earth. I have known the brightest sunshine and the darkest shadows, the highest pride and the humblest resignation. My Baby was born in a manger and died upon a cross, yet the years between these two events were so filled with sacred teachings and sublime example that they light the way for all the ages. His words were the simplest, yet the wisest that were ever spoken. His parables are still told to little children and to learned men. Scholars and scientists wonder at His miracles. And yet, from his earliest childhood, through the tragedy of his death, his tenderest thoughts and most considerate actions were for me. He was the Savior of the world, and He was a glorious Son of a worshipful mother. Reader turns page and finds the Pilgrim Mother. I am the Pilgrim Mother. I came with my husband across the trackless  ocean to make a home in a new and strange world, where we could. Teach our children as we saw fit. Many are the hardships I passed through and many the trials I endured, that they might have this heritage of liberty. We lived in constant fear of attack by the Indians, the winters were bitter cold with starvation staring us in the face. We saw our loved ones sicken and die without proper help and care. But the lessons of hard work, privation and endurance developed rugged men and women, for my children builded well. They laid the foundation of a nation which has preserved to posterity the freedom and opportunities for which we left our native land. Reader turns page and finds Lucy Mack Smith. I am Lucy Mack, mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith. When my third little baby was born, two days before Christmas of a very cold winter, little did I dream that he would prove to be one of the greatest men ever to live upon the earth. Never did I think that his name would be known for good and evil all over the world. We gave him his father's name, for it was a good name that had never been tarnished by an evil deed. And he grew to be like his father, large and vigorous and possessed of much strength. He early learned the sterling qualities of truth, honesty and virtue. For a time after our marriage we were well off but reverses came to us and my children all had to learn to work hard, in the field or wherever else they could, for it was necessary for them to help earn. The daily living. I think the Lord had a hand in our misfortunes, because it taught us to be humble. Hard work ? strengthened our bodies and sacrifices strengthened our souls. Joseph grew to be a thoughtful boy, and when he was fourteen years old at the time of the great religious revivals, he was large for his age and very serious minded. He had taken to reading his Bible a great deal and it seemed that religion had a very strong hold on him. He was uneasy in his mind however and even after the older members of our family had joined the churches they thought were right, he was still unconvinced. Then came his glorious vision. From the first I knew that my boy spoke the truth. He was never given to wild imaginings and I had never known him to tell a falsehood. It seemed from then on that if possible I loved him more than ever. He was never thoughtless of my comfort like the other children were at times and I can never remember his speaking unkindly to me. And many times when the others had gone off for their own pleasures he lingered behind to do some little chore for me or some helpful thing about the house. So my whole being thrilled when I knew he was chosen of the Lord to do a mighty work, and when his great mission began there was never a doubt in my heart that everything he said was true and everything he did was right. But never again was I entirely happy. I was always conscious of the shadow of impending tragedy. No matter how tall and strong he grew to be and no matter how glorious the work in which he was engaged, he was still my little boy and I loved him very tenderly. Gradually I began to fear he would be called on to lay down his life for the work as so many good men had done before him, and I continually prayed that it would be made as easy for him as possible. And when the end came, I knew that his work had been done gloriously and well and I knew the Lord had answered my prayer, for though he was scorned by men he was loved and honored by God.