MOTHERS OF MEN 285 Reader turns page and finds Nancy Hanks. I am Nancy Hanks, mother of Abraham Lincoln. My lot in life was hard, my horizon was narrow and my opportunities restricted. My life was one of toil and poverty for I worked both in the house and out of doors, and surely no one would have predicted that my name would come to be known and reverenced from ocean to ocean. After we were married, I taught my husband to read and write for his opportunities had been fewer than mine. And later I taught my children. I believe the things I taught them were of more value to them than the instruction they received in the poor schools they were able to attend now and then. Abraham especially, never tired of studying, and after I had taught him to read, boy though he was, I tried with all my might to instill into him the love of good books. And in this I think I was entirely successful. While still a very young boy he acquired that kindness of heart and gentleness of manner that always mark one of God's true noblemen, qualities which stayed with him till the end of his life. Although our home was of the humblest and we were all acquainted with the hardest work, there was much love among us. And love always has a good and lasting influence upon the life of a child. It develops sweetness and thoughtfulness for others and the joy of service. I was not permitted to stay with my little boy very long, only nine short years. But in that time much valuable seed was planted that bore glorious fruit during his later life. High honors came to him and he was numbered with the greatest men of the earth. But always he remembered me and many were the tributes that in later life he paid to my memory. Nearly half a century after I had gone away he said with tears in his eyes, "All that I am and all that I hope to be, I owe to my angel mother." My life on earth was comparatively short but through the love which he inspired in the hearts of his people, my name shall never die. Reader turns page and finds Pioneer Mother. I am the Pioneer Mother. I left the outskirts of civilization behind and with my husband, pushed out across the prairies to find a new home. For days and days we traveled across the broad plains, with only the wide sweep of earth and sky before us. Much of the way I traveled in a covered wagon behind a team of plodding oxen. I held my babies close by me to keep them safe while my husband walked beside the slow oxen in order to prod them along. And again I walked and pushed a hand cart which contained all we could bring with us. Many times we sang as we walked along and many times our hearts were breaking at the memory of what we had left behind and the dread of what the future might hold. Sometimes the evenings were gay with music and dancing and sometimes our bodies were so exhausted from our long day's march that we scarcely had strength to prepare our evening meal. But through all our toil and trials our hearts beat high with hope, for our sacrifices were made for the privilege of worshiping God and transmitting to our children a life free from persecution and violence. And the joy that was ours when our journey was through fully compensated us for all the tribulations we endured. We looked out upon the valley that was to be our home  and though it was dry and barren, we thanked God that our lives had been spared. But then our work began in earnest. We had houses to build and fields and gardens to plow and the precious seeds which we had carried so carefully with us all the long way, must be planted, and the hundreds of things incident to beginning life in a new country, must be done. At first we barely had enough to eat. We learned to prepare thistles and roots and wild plants for food as well as to gather the wild fruits and berries with which the hills and canyons abounded. Many were the things we learned to do without and the things we needed most we made for ourselves. But we knew the Lord had blessed us and would continue to bless us and we thanked Him that we had been privileged to leave the old scenes of violence and bloodshed and come to a new country to build up a new Zion. The fine young men and women who are the youth of Zion today are payment a thousand fold for the hardships we endured during those early years. Reader turns page and finds. The Mother of Today, I am the Mother of Today. My motherhood has not yet become history. It is for me to nurture the men/and women of tomorrow. I instill into the hearts of my children the love of humanity and the will to serve, the desire to aid in bringing peace, to all nations and brotherhood among men. 'Their aspirations and accomplishments will be inspired by the songs I sing to them, the stories I tell them, and the games I teach them to play around my feet: also, by the thoughts and ideals I create in their minds as they become older. My sons and daughters will overcome time and eliminate space to serve their ends. They will harness the elements, the sun and the oceans, and make them their servants. They will make great scientific discoveries that will aid the course of civilization, and make life easier and fuller. They will make great strides in the study of medicine and surgery so that life may be prolonged and disease and suffering largely overcome. New plans will be made so that social conditions will be perfected.. There will be no poor. Housing conditions will be improved and everyone will have a comfortable home. The world will be made a safer place to live in, with almost no accidents, and the work of the world will be done for the satisfaction and joy of accomplishment and the benefit of humanity. And through my inspiration and teachings, men's hearts will become purer and more spiritual, thus making the earth a better place. For the children of men. READER: And so the years roll by and time slips into eternity. Each age produces its great men, all bearing the mark and influence of the mothers who reared them, each playing his part and passing on. But of all the gifts and blessings that a woman bestows upon her children the greatest of all is Mother Love.