[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: R. S. REPORTS. | Author: Unknown]

R. S. REPORTS.
	DENVER, COLORADO. 
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	The members of the Relief Society of
Denver wish me to write you, to let you
know how we are getting along. 
	Our Relief Society has only a small
membership, but we endeavor to do our
duty as best we can, with our limited
means. During the past summer we have
assisted in caring for some of the poor in
this city, and we have furnished a room
complete in “The Haven,” which is a home
and industrial training school for young
girls. They come from all parts of the
State; some are orphans, and others might
better be, and some are half orphans. This
room is occupied by two girls as a bed-
room. It is furnished with a nice iron
bedstead and bedding, also chairs, wash-
stand, glass, rug,s and all things necessary
for a girl's bedroom; and we have the
privilege of placing our literature there for
them to read, and on the door we have a
nice plate with the name of our Church on
it: “Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.” 
	We have a good band of sisters here, if
they are few in number. They feel like
pressing on in the good work, and we en-
joy the EXPONENT and have articles from
it read in our meetings.
	Ever praying for the health of the
editor of the EXPONENT, Sister Wells, we 
remain,
	Yours in the cause of truth,
		EVA HALEY, Pres. 
		MARY E. WOOLLEY, Cor. Sec.
		ST. JOHNS STAKE, KANSAS. 
	Our society was organized July 8, 1899,
by our mission president, Elder Wm. Jack,
and we now have seventeen members en-
rolled. 
	We have in our treasury, twenty dollars.
We have given one ice cream social, from
which we cleared five dollars and seventy
cents. We have pieced two quilts, and
quilted three; also made three comforts and
sewed carpet rags. We have held twenty-
five working and testimony meetings.
Those held on the first Thursday of each
month are devoted to testimony bearing.
	Following are the minutes of our first
regular monthly meeting:
	Saint John’s Relief Society held in the
Saint’s Church, Thursday, August 3, 1899, 
at 2 o’clock p. m.  presided over by our president, Sister Lucy Brekenridge. 
	The meeting was opened by singing the


[Column 1]
hymn, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Prayer by Sister Breckenridge.
Singing, “Come let us anew, our journey
pursue.” Roll was called and minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.
Members present, eleven. 
	Sister Oden spoke for a short time. Said
that she was thankful that she belonged to
our society; that she felt like going ahead
and doing what she could.
	Sister Hawkins said that the Lord would
bless us if we would be faithful, and prayed
that we might continue in the Gospel.
	Sister Baker bore her testimony with
much feeling. Desired always to be faith-
ful and do her part, both in the Church
and in the society.
	Sister Dixon spoke of the true prophet of
God. Said we were just starting and must
have a foundation—trust in the Lord. Ex-
horted us to keep ourselves pure, and bore
a strong testimony to the truthfulness of
the Gospel.
	Sister Gooing was thankful to meet with
us again. Expressed her willingness to do
all she could to aid the society.
	Singing, “O, say what is truth.”
	Sister Breckenridge felt thankful that she
lived in this day of the restoration of the
Gospel. She hoped that we would all go
ahead and be faithful, and we would be
blessed.
	Sister Miller felt well and thought the
Lord would bless us if we did what we
could. Testified that she knew that we
had the true Gospel.
	Sister Smith, of Thistle, Utah, who was
visiting with us, said she would soon have
to leave for her home, and might never see
us again in this life; but she felt we would
meet in the next. Knew the Lord would
bless us, He had blessed her.
	The sisters then sang, “Earth with her
ten thousand flowers.
	Sisters Breckenridge, Gooing, Dixon and
Budge each donated ten cents.
	Singing, “O, my Father.” Benediction
by Sister Hawkins.
			LUCY BRECKENRIDGE, Pres.,
			MARGARET BUDGE, Sec.
HAMBURG, GERMANY.
	The Relief Society of Hamburg is in a
very flourishing condition. It is presided
over by Sister Reicht, with Sister Ahers as
first counselor and another good sister,
whose name I do not remember, as second
counselor. They meet twice a month, a
work meeting and a testimony meeting
alternately. They have not many poor,
for they are nearly all poor, but through
untiring efforts, they succeed in almost pay-
ing the rent of the hall where the Relief
Society meetings are held.
	They are earnest workers in the cause,
and desire to do all they can to roll on the
great work of the Latterdays. They enter-
tain the Elders all it is possible for them to
do, some inviting them to take a meal a
week with them, some do part of their
washing and others mend their clothes.
My heart went out to them in their great
efforts to bless the Elders when sent to
them, out of their scanty store.
	They desire to come to Zion, it being
their dream by day and by night. They
love the sisters in Zion. They knit socks
and stockings, let their president buy
towels and other necessary articles, on
which she gets ten per cent off, they paying
the regular store price, so as to let that
much go into the treasury. They have a
secretary and treasurer.

[Column 2]
	Of course they do not use quilts in
Germany, so those avenues we have at
home are not open to them to assist them in
gathering means. The light feather bed,
which, by the way, is decidedly comfortable
on a cold night, and a spread is all they
have on their beds. But they are so earn-
est and intelligent, the love of Zion quick-
ens their understanding and the cause they
work in makes it a labor of love.
	Three meetings were held and one
officers’ meeting. President Reicht enter-
tained some of the Elders and myself, as
also did Sister Ahers. Both of these fami-
lies are getting near the day when they
may come to Zion. Some of the other sis-
ters invited us to their homes also, among
them being Sister Schroder, who puts every
spare ten penny into a box, thus saving
the money to get to Zion.
	I spoke to the first German meeting of
sisters on July 24, 1899. They send their
love to President Zina D. H. Young and
all the other sisters in Zion. They would
have all come down to the boat when I
left, only that it did not go out until 11:30
p. m. Still some came with the brethren,
who would not say good bye, but “We’ll
meet again in Zion.”
WE’LL MEET AGAIN IN ZION.
	To the Saints in Hamburg and my friends.

We’ll meet again in Zion, fair Zion far away,
And clasp each friendly hand on that gladsome
	day;
We’ll see the mountains rising, snow-capp'd to
	the skies,
And the lake on whose fair bosom the evening
	sunset lies.

We’ll meet again in Zion, where God’s own Tem-
	ple stands,
And tell how we as strangers, glad meet in fore-
	ign lands;
As comrades in the Vineyard, where hearts so
	closely meet,
Brave toiling on midst trials, to tell the story
	sweet.

How Christ will come to Zion, His church to teach
	anew,
And choose His very own, His jewels not a few;
Then may we meet in Zion, though oceans inter-
	vene
And roll forever onward, that land and us be-
	tween.

Then, too, in that blest Zion, the city paved with
	gold,
May we amid its splendors, our Savior’s face be-
	hold;
O, there where Saints are gathered from every 
	land and clime,
May we hear the welcome plaudit, “Beloved you
	are mine.”

And through the countless ages, eternities un-
	born,—
When the purple hills of Paradise, gently kiss the
	morn;
And Life’s flowing river, for aye glides smooth
	along,
May we join in the chorus of the New, Unchang-
	ing Song.
						LYDIA D. ALDER.
	North Sea, August 10, 1899,
			FREMONT.
	A delightfully successful tour through
this (the Fremont) Stake has just been
completed by the Stake presidency of our
Relief Society and others, accompanied by
Sister L. L. Greene Richards, of Salt Lake
City.
	Sister Richards came to Rexburg on the
23rd of July, and went on to Haden, in
Teton Valley, forty miles from here, where
she spent Pioneers’ Day with her sister,
Mrs. M. G. Homer, and daughter. On the
25th Sister Homer and daughter accompan-
ied Sister Richards back to Rexburg, where
they were joined by Relief Society Stake

[Column 3]
President Temperance Hinckley, and First
Counselor Mary S. Anderson.
	These sisters commenced their trip
through the Stake on Wednesday, July 26.
Their first meeting was held with the Re-
lief Society of Salem Ward. Continuing
their travels and visits, they held meetings
with the sisters in each of the following
named wards: Island, Lyman, Burton,
Rexburg, Hyatt, Egin, Parker, Ora, Wil-
ford, Twin Groves, Fall River, Mary’sville,
Teton City, Pratt, Chapin, Darby, Ray-
mond, Leigh and Haden.
	With the exception of Jackson’s Hole
and, I think, one or two other small, scat-
tered settlements, where as yet not enough
women reside to form a Relief Society,
every ward in the Stake was visited. 
	Besides the Relief Society meetings, the
sisters met with the Young Ladies’ and
Primary associations in some instances,
where such meetings could be arranged.
	Sisters Flamm, Black and Atkinson
joined the company of visiting sisters in
some of the wards. In several instances
they were also favored with the presence
and support of Stake President Thomas E.
Ricks, his counselor, Wm. F. Rigby, and 
Patriarch A. E. Hinckley. The Bishops
and other leading brethren also showed a
kindly interest in the work of the sisters in
most of the wards.
	There were two wards in which it was
found the removal and resignation of
the Relief Society president rendered re-
organization necessary; and several of the
branch societies were needing to be aroused
and reminded that the duties required at
the hands of the sisters in the society were
of vast importance, and must be diligently
attended to. But in the majority of cases,
good, harmonious work was being done;
and an eagerness to be taught how to im-
prove and progress was manifested by the
brave, noble women who are pioneering
their portion of the work of the Lord in
these comparatively new settlements.
	In all the meetings held by the sisters in
this annual visit through the Stake, the
teachings were of a remarkably elevating
and purifying nature, combining temporal
and spiritual matters in a way to be clearly
understood by all.
	The Relief Society throughout, and the
Young Ladies’ and Primary Associations,
were urged to take an active interest in all
each other’s welfare; to visit back and forth,
encouraging and sustaining each other with
their united faith and prayers, as well as by
good words and works. The law of tithing
and kindred topics were impressively ex-
plained and illustrated, together with near-
ly, if not all, the principles and doctrines
belonging to the Gospel of salvation, both
for the present and the future life.
	“Sister Lula” (as we like to designate
L. L. Greene Richards) being the principal
speaker in all the meetings which have
been mentioned here, took especial care
never to neglect presenting a loving mes-
sage and blessing to the sisters of the Fre-
mont Stake from the honored and beloved
president of the Sisterhood, Sister Zina D.
H. Young, and her counselors; in response
to which, on behalf of the Sisterhood of the
Fremont Stake of Zion, we sincerely re-
turn love and gratitude to dear “Aunt
Zina” and her associates; and thank her
and them for sending us the motherly
benedictions and instructions by so worthy
and capable a messenger as our dear Sister
Lula.
	May the peace and love of heaven ev


[Column 1]
abide with Sister Zina D. H. Young and
the great and grand organization over
which she presides.
			SARAH A. BARNES,
					Stake Sec. R. S.
		SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Salt
Lake Stake, was held in the Assembly
Hall, Saturday, September 2, 1899, com-
mencing at 10 a. m., President M. Isabella
Horne presiding. On the stand, beside
President Horne, were her counselors,
Annie T. Hyde and Clara C. Cannon,
Corresponding Secretary Maria W. Wilcox,
and Aid Julia C. Howe; also President B.
W. Smith, of the General Board, and Sis-
ter Elizabeth J. Stevenson.
	Meeting opened by singing, “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by
Counselor C. C. Cannon. Continued by
singing, “For the strength of the hills,”
etc. Roll called: city wards represented,
20; country wards, 20. Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and accepted.
	The secretary stated that she had great
difficulty in getting in reports in time to
make Stake report; urged greater prompt-
ness.
	President Horne gave valuable instruc-
tions to the sisters on the duties of mothers
in training their children, and duties in the
Church. “Out of the 2717 members re-
ported, we should have a much larger at-
tendance at meeting this morning.” Said
she was pleased to see such a good repre-
sentation of officers. Felt sure that all the
sisters could make arrangements to come to
conference once in three months, if they
had sufficient interest.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith said:
“The word of the Lord to the Saints is that
the sisters and the Saints should pay tith-
ing and donations, and not let the names
of the brethren alone appear on the books.
Teach your children to keep the Sabbath
day holy; teach them to pray and observe
the Word of Wisdom.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde said: Every
one comes here to gain instruction, and be
able to carry home to her society something
that will be of benefit. Our report shows
that the attendance at the ward meetings is
not so large as it should be. There is a great
responsibility resting upon the officers.
There are just as good women outside the
society as there are in it, but they have
not the spirit of Relief Society work. How
many are going to work to help bring them
in and inspire them? The younger sisters
should be more interested, for it is a noble
work of sacrifice and doing good. Many
of our nurses are doing a noble work of
charity among the sick and needy. We ex-
pect soon to organize classes for young
ladies and young mothers, where lectures
on hygiene, physical development, etc.,
will be given. Impress upon your children
at your knee the divinity of the mission of
Joseph Smith, that when they go out
among the nations, they may have the
spirit of truth burning in their hearts.”
	Counselor M. M. Daniels, of the Relief
Society of Utah Stake, expressed great
pleasure in meeting with us, this being her
first opportunity of doing so. Rejoiced in
all she had heard here. Spoke of the good
results of paying tithing, and gave many
good instructions. “The young people
have too much amusement, for it keeps
them in a state of excitement. One amuse-
ment follows so quickly upon another, that

[Column 2]
their minds never have a chance to calm
down. It is really injurious to their
nervous system.” Thanked the Lord that
she had seen and known the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and had a testimony and knowledge
of the divinity of his mission. She was
healed of chills and fever when she was
baptized at the age of nine years.
	President Sarah J. Cannon, of the Gener-
al Board, said if we would follow out the
instructions we had heard this morning, we
would certainly see good results. Spoke of
her son being healed by the administration
of the Elders. This morning he had left
home to go on a mission. When people
who are outside our Church asked her what
we believe in, she told them that we be-
lieve in what the Savior taught when He
was here upon the earth. Some had said to
her that they did not think we wished to
talk about our religion. She told them
this was a mistake, for we wished every
man, woman and child on the earth to have
a complete knowledge of our faith, that all
the human family might be benefited
	President Mary Ann Hyde, of the Relief
Society of Sanpete Stake, said: “The
progress of this work is marvelous when
we think of the small number at the com-
mencement, and the great extent of the
work now. The mission of President Snow
is wonderful, and he is awakening the
Saints to a sense of duty, and doing a great
work. Do not fall into a state of lethargy.”
	President Horne felt that the time had
been well occupied. Desired a larger at-
tendance in the afternoon to hear the in-
structions that were to be given. She had
received a letter from Sister Lydia D. Alder
from London, and she sent her love to the
sisters and expressed her interest in the
work.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, “The time is far spent.” Benedic-
tion by Sister Maria W. Wilcox.
	Afternoon session. Meeting opened by
singing, “Come, come ye saints.” Prayer
by Sister Elizabeth Webb. Singing,
“Zion stands with hills surrounded,” by
Prof. C. J. Thomas, Brother Charles Bar-
rell, Sisters Maggie C. Hull and Lizzie
Thomas. Minutes of afternoon session of
June conference read and accepted. Finan-
cial report read and accepted also.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon gave much
good instruction to young mothers. Said:
“Motherhood is the grandest mission on
earth. We, as mothers, should lead lives
such as our children should follow. If
there are some who are wayward in youth,
by this good example they may be influ-
enced to return to the fold. The Gospel is
the same that was preached by the Savior,
and is just as beautiful now as it was then.
Teach your children not to form acquain-
tances with those who are not of our faith
that will lead to marriage; ‘be ye not un-
equally yoked together.’ There is much
unhappiness results from such unions.”
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt her soul lifted up
in gratitude to the Lord for the instructions
given here. “In listening to them I often
wish that we might have had such in-
structions when I was young and rearing
my children. But our Heavenly Father
will excuse our ignorance. The young
women should identify themselves with the
Relief Society and assist the older sisters,
for they have had many advantages that
some of the older ones have not enjoyed.”
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson said: “It is
a great pleasure to me to meet with the sis-
ters, to look upon their faces. I am thank-

[Column 3]
ful to live in the day of prophets and
apostles. Our children should never be
permitted to forget the life of the Prophet
Joseph, and his work. The youth should
have correct principles instilled into their
minds. They should be taught economy,
that, through their extravagance, their
parents may not be called upon to mort-
gage their homes. They should be willing
to minister to the sick, go and read to them,
if they wish it. How much better the
young sisters can do this than the older
ones! Do not desire to be freed from the
care of looking after your children. They
will all be grown up, and you will be left
alone soon enough.”
	The quartette sang “I know that my Re-
deemer lives.”
	President Horne spoke on the subject of
tithing. Said: “It should make no differ-
ence to us what is done with the tithing.
How much does it take to keep the Tem-
ple open? to bring the missionaries home?
to pay clerks? and many other things. We
should not try to dictate to the Church
authorities. The Lord will pour out
blessings upon us if we pay our honest
tithing. At the annual meeting in the
branches, the presiding sisters should
be invited to come; it will increase the in-
terest in the respective society. A great
many of the branches of the society in this
Stake are leaving off their work meetings,
but this should not be done. Our work is
temporal as well as spiritual. These
meetings should be held once in two
weeks, and clothing should be made and
repaired and collected for the poor.”
Mentioned the shooting of a young lady in
the Southern States, who was trying to
protect the Elders from a mob.
	President Elmina S. Taylor, of the Y. L.
M. I. A., felt that she had lost much by
not being able to attend our meetings.
“The Relief Society has been the greatest
blessing of my life. No true and faithful
worker in the Relief Society is in danger of
apostatizing.” Was sorry to hear that
some of the branches had stopped their
work meetings, and President Horne had
not given any instruction for this
change.
	Sister Mary Freeze was the next speaker.
She felt thankful for the spirit of obedience
with which she had been blest. There is
a certain reverence due those who are
placed to preside over us. Felt to love
and honor those whom the Lord loved and
honored. Said all should live nearer to
their Heavenly Father, for the reins will be
drawn tighter, and those desiring to partici-
pate in the blessings of the Temple must
live better. Believed that the people were
endeavoring to do better in the matter of
tithing. When we do learn to obey our
Father, we will then be prepared to receive
fully the teachings that are given from
time to time.
	Sister Camilla C. Cobb felt humble, and
felt as though the best women on earth were
associated here. Desired to be active in
the discharge of her duties. Was engaged
now, and always had been engaged in the
training of children. Bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel, and de-
clared herself to be anxious to do her duty
in every way. Hoped we would be pre-
pared for the sifting time, which is surely
near at hand.
	Conference adjourned to meet on the 2nd
of December. Singing, Doxology. Pray-
er by Elder C. J. Thomas.
