[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE | Author: ALICE BURKE]

DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE
REVOLUTION.
BY ALICE BURKE.
	A young woman bent over a coat sleeve
made of coarse fustian. It belonged to a
half finished garment lying on a chair.
	She stitched away buisily by the light of
a dip candle, standing on the wooden table.
	The room was humbly furnished, evi-
dently the home of a farmer.
	Deborah Sampson—for so the young
woman was called—was a rather remark-
able looking person. Tall, of athletic
build, yet a close observer might have
been surprised to see her small, tapering
hand and dark attractive face. Her
skin was clear and white, enhancing
the beauty of her slumbrous brown eyes and
thick, soft black hair, and showing the
sweet mouth and pearly teeth. She had an
attractive personality, though she seemed
to be unaware of it, her whole mind centered
on an absorbing passion to serve her coun-
try.
	To look at her, one knew that some-
where, sometime, Deborah Sampson had
known better circumstances, for the turn of
her graceful head and the shapely hand
plying the needle betrayed gentle parents—
and this was true of her, for she was des-
cended from William Bradford, governor of
the colony of Plymouth, her grandfather
being Elisha Bradford, a man of consider-
able note, his wife a French woman by
name Bathsheba C. Broche, and their
daughter was Deborah's mother. Her
grandfather had been rich but suddenly

[Column 2]
lost his money and took to a seafaring life,
hence her parents were very poor.
	Deborah was born at Plympton, in Ply-
mouth County, Massachusetts, in December,
1760. When she became of age she had a
home with a farmer, Mr. Thomas. She
had a singular tenacity of purpose and at
this time she was greatly interested in the
revolution which had broken out. During
the day she worked hard at spinning, in
the dairy, and in the fields raking hay, or
binding oats. She could harness a horse
equally well, and often sprang on one and
rode off for a long canter over the country
roads. If a spare moment came she sat
poring over books which she borrowed
from the school children, and every scrap of
news about the war she read eagerly.
	At eighteen she contrived by teaching a
small district school to save twelve dollars,
and with this she bought some coarse fus-
tian, cut out a suit of men’s clothes for her-
self, and thus it was she sat sewing by the
lonely candle.
	“There is no escape for me,” she thought.
“The way is marked out for me. I must
leave these peaceful scenes and enlist in the
army.”
	There was a look of dreamy ecstacy on
her face. It seemed on the previous night,
she had a strange dream. She thought she
stood on the summit of a high hill, in view
of the sea, where a terrific storm raged.
Suddenly a huge serpent wound its way to
her. She fought it bravely, conquering it,
and then she awoke, filled with an over-
powering desire for a real battlefield, a real
foe to attack.
	The utter silence of the small room gave
her mind full play, and she thought of the
weeks to come.
	At this moment something was thrown
against the window.
	“ ’Tis he, David Brenton," she murmured.
	The sound was repeated. She extin-
guished the light, pushed aside the cur-
tains and looked out.
	The night was warm in the early spring,
the breath of the budding flowers filled the
air, and the moon shone above her.
	She was very lovely as she stood there,
revealed to the anxious lover beneath the
window. She wore a full white muslin
shirt, drawn in by a black laced bodice.
She had unfastened it about her throat, and
her dimpled neck lent a statue-like simplici-
ty to her beauty.
	“Deborah,” he said, in a low voice, “I
knew you were there, for I saw the light.”
	“Well," she asked, in her melodious voice,
"Why do you come? Why don’t you stay
away?"
	"Because, sweetheart, it’s impossible. I
love you and hope in time you will return
my love.”
	Deborah laughed.
	“It’s quite useless. Why wear out your
life running after a shadow? I shall never
love you.”
	“I don’t believe it. Surely, if for no
other reason, think of your mother. She
wishes for our union, and think, Deborah, of
the beautiful home I can give you. Try to
love me darling,” he urged. He was a

[Column 3]
man of wealth, and loved her devotedly.
	“I am sorry I have to repeat my no, be-
cause I’ve said it so often, you must be
tired of hearing it.”
	“What will you do when you leave
here? Where will you go? I have heard
you think of making a change,” he said,
ignoring her refusal, as he invariably did.
	"Of that I cannot speak, as it only con-
cerns myself, and it’s no use trying to find
out, for I will not say.”
	He talked of something else and she
gradually got from him that the soldiers in
Boston were in need of food.
	"Why is it, Deborah, you revert to the
war? You are greatly interested in it, are
you not?" he inquired. He saw her face
beam with that wonderful light of courage
and inspired aspiration.
	“I scarcely know,” she said. “I’m sor-
ry, sorry, I’m not a man. If I was I’d
shoulder a firelock and march against the
Red Coats. Yet here within me is the
longing to help these brave men. God
give me strength to find out the way,”
she added beneath her breath, and soon
David Brenton departed.
	When he was gone, she tied up her bun-
dle of work and slipped out of the house,
across a meadow, and close by a large hay-
stack in which she concealed it. This
done, she returned to her room, and then re-
tired for the night.
	Thus she worked daily on the suit,
and at length it was finished. She
sent to the soldiers in Boston, as soon as she
could[-] a few fowl and sheep of her own
raising, bought with some of her hard
earned money at Mr. Thomas’.
	She saw her mother frequently. She
lived in a ramshackle old place, at a short
distance, and the elder woman often urged
the suit of David Brenton, but in vain.
Deborah made a final decision in her own
mind, she would enlist in the army as a
private, disguising herself as a man in the
suit of fustian, which was safely stowed
away in the haystack. She had but to
make the venture and all was before her.
She gave the good people notice, saying
she wanted higher wages, and intended
going to some other town. In a day or
two it was settled between them.
	She tied up a few articles she might re-
quire, and just as the dawn peeped forth,
on a cool day in May, after a kind farewell
to Mr. Thomas and his wife, she started off
for Staunton Mills, and later for Worcester
and the American camp. She wore on
this morning her usual costume, a brown
woolen skirt, white shirt and laced bodice.
The farmer and his wife watched her out of
sight, and when she found she was un-
observed she ran into the meadow, snatched
the suit of fustian out, wrapped it in her
bundle and on she went. She did not say
good-bye to her mother, nor let her know of
her intended departure. At times this
struck home to her, but she thrust the
longing from her. She soon reached a
track of dense woodland, and screened by
the thick bushes she proceeded to change
her apparel, and slipped into the rough
suit of fustian. She stepped forth in a few


[Column 1]
moments fully clothed as a man. Her fig-
ure lent a new grace to the garb, and she
seemed a comely youth. She clipped her
thick black curls closely to her head,
and placed on it a soft hat, which she had
bought the day before, and thus equipped
she breathed freer. Her way seemed
mapped out for her, straight to the Ameri-
can camp, some miles distant. Before pro-
ceeding, she gathered some dry branches
and made a fire, heaping her clothes upon
it, and, setting a light to it, waited until
they were reduced to ashes. These she
covered with earth, and once more set off.
	The day was well on when she paused at
the outposts. The sentinel eyed her curi-
ously, but the fire in her brown eyes shot
straight into his own and awakened a re-
sponsive chord in this weather-beaten soul.
	“I’ve come to enlist,” Deborah an-
nounced; her deep voice filled the place for
a boy’s readily.
	“Well, an’ yer have. I’m glad on it,
young man. Come this way!” He led
her through the ranks straight to Colonel
Patterson.
	He looked pleased when he saw Deborah.
There was a curious intenseness and vigor
about her, which people felt, and she gener-
ally won her point. Her smile was the sun-
niest the Colonel had ever seen, as she
doffed her hat and made known her errand.
He studied her attentively.
	“Yes, you’re just the boy I need,” he
said, laying his hand on her shoulder. She
shrank away, but overcame her embarrass-
ment instantly. “You shall be with me
for a while. I want a young fellow to run
errands to different places along the lines.
You shall fill that position, and be mustered
in at the same time. We shall have leave
of absence soon, and I shall take you home
with me, for you’ll be useful there.”
	Deborah consented readily, though she
had wished for immediate action. She was
mustered into service in May, 1781, under
the name of Robert Shirtliffe.
	The men called her “The Blooming Boy,”
because of her fair skin, and often Bobbie,
to all of which she made no remonstrance.
She became indispensable to the Colonel,
and when his leave of absence came he
took her home with him.
	She found herself in a comfortable home,
with little to do except a few letters to copy
for the Colonel. She busied herself about
the place, working in the garden, and doing
whatever came to hand. The household
grew to love the young man, and she was
careful to evade discovery. She had begged
a room to herself, and the Colonel gave it
to her. About this time a niece came to
stay at the house, and as ill luck would
have it, she became enamored of the youth-
ful soldier. Deborah tried every means to
avert this disaster, but the girl’s earnest-
ness was not to be quelled so easily, and
Deborah went to the Colonel with the story.
After she told him the facts of the case, he
said, “My dear boy, you are needlessly
alarmed, for nothing would please me more
than to have you marry my niece; and
what reason prevents your doing so? Try,
my dear fellow, to love her.”
	Deborah grew white to the lips with fear
and dismay.
	“Colonel Patterson, you don’t know
what you ask,” she said hastily.” “Think
of me, sir, I am only a common soldier. I
haven’t a cent in the world.”
	“Don’t look so frightened, Rob,” the 
Colonel said, laughing. “I’m not going to
force you to marry her, though I’d like

[Column 2]
nothing better. I’d willingly supply the
money to start you comfortably in some
business.”
	“You are too generous, sir, but believe
me, I cannot. It is better that I leave here
at once, if, sir, your niece loves me, as she
has almost told me.” A hot flush mounted
Deborah’s cheeks.
	The Colonel laughed still heartier.
	“My dear Rob, you’re blushing like a
girl.”
	“I believe I am, sir, and I’m ashamed of
it.”
	“You need’nt be. I’d have done the
same if a girl had proposed to me. But
you musn’t think of leaving me. The
young woman shall go first.”
	“This is scarcely fair, sir. No, I shall
go.” The slight figure stood erect, the
voice rang out decidedly, and the Colonel
met only defiance in the handsome brown
eyes.
	“And I say you shall not go,” he said.
“You are dismissed for the present.”
	Deborah saluted her superior officer and
withdrew. She hurriedly put a few arti-
cles together, and when the next morning
came, Colonel Patterson’s household was
astonished to find the young soldier miss-
ing.
	Deborah proceeded back to the American
camp, where she once more got in the ranks
as a private. She carried a bayonet, car-
tridge box, etc. She enlisted for the whole
term of the war, a position never before or
after held by a woman. She filled the full
complement of a soldier’s life, slept in tents
and went through the usual routine of the
men. Her mother in the meantime and
her lover, David Brenton, received rumors
of her death, or of an elopement. They de-
cided to make a search for her, and ended
their pilgrimage by going through the
American camp, fearing she might have
gone there to nurse the soldiers. It hap-
pened that Deborah was putting on her
coat as she caught sight of her mother and
David Brenton being shown through the
camps by two officers. She went inside the
tent immediately, greatly excited. Would
they know her? She snatched up a book
and pretended to read.
	Presently the party passed by her tent,
and David looked in curiously. Deborah
sprang to her feet instantly, pulled her
hat well over her eyes, and saluted her
superior officer. David did not know her,
but saw only a slender youth giving the
army courtesies to his officer.
	How’s everything going with you,
Bobbie?” the Captain inquired.
	“Very well, sir,” Deborah answered in a
scarcely audible voice. Her mother started
slightly as she spoke, and looked intently
at the slim figure in blue, but there was a
short distance between them.
	“It seemed,” she said, in the tender
mother-voice, which went straight to the
girl’s heart; “it seemed as if I had heard
that voice somewhere, sometime. Who is
the young soldier, sir?”
	“Robert Shirtliffe, and a fine young fel-
low.”
	The young fellow turned away and bent
over some writing and the Captain, know-
ing the reticent nature of the youth, moved
away with the other two.
	Deborah’s eyes filled with tears. She
rushed to the opening and unperceived by
them, she watched them for a long way.
Her beloved mother, gentle, sweet as ever,
and she had let her go!
	A roll of drums, a sound of fife, and

[Column 3]
Deborah’s tears ceased to flow—a blazing
fire quenched them as it burned in her
eyes.
“No! no! My country, for thee! I am
here, and it is well. God will guide me. 
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


