LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in February. SURNAMES FROM THE VILLAGE When the English people, as they had begun to call themselves, after William the Conqueror's day, really decided to adopt surnames, some of them fell naturally into the habit of calling themselves by their trades, or professions, or offices. This would come natural, as: William the tailor would soon be William Taylor; John the clerk would soon become John Clerk or Clark; and Richard the gardener would soon become Richard Gardner. It may clarify this lesson if we say a little more about the Domesday Book and the census made by William the Conqueror, in 1086. William found it impossible to decide just who held deeds to certain properties, nor did he know how many men he had under him, nor how much property was in the kingdom. Partly to take a census, and partly to find out how much taxable property there was, and partly to fasten his yoke more securely upon the necks of the conquered Angles, Saxons and Danes, he sent heralds all through the kingdom, and these heralds wrote the results of their census, taken in a very fine hand and, in a very crowded manner, upon a medium-sized manuscript book, which was called The Domesday Book, and which is now in the f fall of Records, under a glass case in London. Baring-Gould says: "Commissioners were sent into the shires, who took evidence on oath from the sheriffs, the parish priests, the reeves, and the men generally, French and English alike, in every lordship. They were to report who had held the land in the time of Edward the Coofessor, and who held it then; also as to how many lived on it, what was their quality and what was the value of the soil, and whether there was any prospect of the value being raised. "The Chronicle says: 'He sent over all England, into every shire, his men to find out how many hundred hides were in the shire, and what the King himself had of land and cattle in the land. Also what rights he ought to have in the twelve months in the shire. Also he let enquire how much land his Archbishops had, and his Bishops, and his Abbots, and his Earls, and though tell it at more length, what and how much every man had that was a land-holder in England, in land or in cattle, and how much fee it was worth. So very narrowly did he let the investigation be carried out, that there was not a single hide, nor a yard of land, not so much as  it is a shame to tell it, and he thought it no shame to do it not an ox nor a cow, nor a swine, was left that was not set in his writ. And all the writs were brought to him.' that "The broke taking out in of this inquisition tumults, and some roused great blood shed was dissatisfaction Hitherto the landholders, with a little shuffling and some bribing, had been able to assess their lands lower than their actual value. This would now be impossible, and they looked to the hard hand of the tax-gatherer coming down on them and remorselessly squeezing out the due for every acre, whether in cultivation or fallow. From Domesday we learn what were the several classes among the English who were now under the heel of the Norman. "The old Thegns, or land-holders, were no longer great men; they had to bow their necks under the yoke, and see their land taken from them and their influence and authority gone. Some, luckily, remained on as tenants on the land where they had been freeholders, and in remembrance of the past still called themselves Thegns, or Theins, and continued to be so called. Hence it comes that we have the surname of Thynne. "The Freemen, freeholders, held their land after the Conquest no longer as freemen, but subject to military service, and were taxable. Their representatives later were the yeomen. They have contributed to our nomenclature the names Freeman and Free. Freebody signified a freeholder of a little wooden cot. Fry as a surname comes thence as well. "Radmen were socmen, possessed of a greater amount of freedom than others. Hence the surname Redman. "Socmen, inferior landowners who held their lands in the 
 soc, or franchise, of a great lord. Hence Suckerman, Suckman. "Franklyn was much the same as the Freeman." The surnames which grew out of the offices held by the village proprietors were: Bonder. The old Norse bonde was the man in highest position under the Earl. He was the freeholder, responsible to none save the Earl. Burs or Geburs were workmen giving a certain number of days' of the work in the field's, and a small money payment to the Lord of the Manor. Bordars, a poor but numerous class, tenants of land which, their lord kept expressly for the maintenance of his table, the rental being paid in kind. Cottars and Cottrels, also Cotmens, Coscets. The cottar could hold nothing of his own, nor acquire anything without the consent of his lord. The Cottrell was in no better position. Villeins were men in the servitude of the Lord of the Manor, who held the folkland, by which they supported themselves and their families. They stood somewhat higher than the serfs. They were also designated as knaves. The odium attaching to a class so low has stood in the way of the name passing into our family nomenclature, at all events in its Norman-French form. But it remains as Churl for Ceorl. * * * * * Carl signifies a man generally. Charles is rarely found as a Christian name in England before the time of Charles I. The surnames Charles, Charly and Caroll, from the Latin form Carolus, remain with us  the last in the United States. Serf, the poor wretch who owned nothing of his own but his wife and his children, is only recognizable in family names as Server, Sewer. Servant became Sergeant, and rose to be an official. Thrall was given the surname Thrale. Akerman occurs repeatedly in the Hundred Rolls, and seems to mean a plowman. (Aker-field, hence man of the field.) Man, in Latin, homo, occurs in almost every page of the Domesday Survey, and included every kind of deutero tenant. Badger, properly a Bagger. "Up to the seventeenth century an ordinary term for one who had a special license to purchase com from farmers at the provincial markets and fairs, and then dispose of it again elsewhere, without the penalties of engrossing."(Bardsley.) Barker, the man who barks for the tanner; Barkis is "at the Bark-house." Bercher or Berger, a shepherd. A Norman-French name is little used, yet surviving as a surname. Beemaster. Occurs in Domesday as Apium Custos. An important man before the introduction of sugar, as honey was employed not only for the making of honey-cakes, but also in the brewing of matheglin or hydromel, and the wax was needed for candles. We have the Beemaster contributing to nomenclature in Beemaster and Honeyman, or simply as Honey. Beecher, a spademan; from the Norman-French beche. Bolter, the bolter of flour, a servant of the miller. Surname Boult. Bullman, the bull-herdsman. Hence Pullman; also in some cases Buller. Carpenter, in country and town alike. In Domesday Carpentarius. Carter comes to us in many forms as a surname  e. g., Carter, Cartman. Cartwright, the maker of carts. Cramer or Creamer, a huckster; hence Crammer. Driver, the driftman; on moors the man employed to sweep together colts and horses and cattle and sheep sent out on the commons, to a centre where the owners may claim them, and such as have no rights to send their beasts on the commons are fined. Farmer remains on the land, and has contributed to our nomenclature. Also Fermor. Farrer and Farrier, the man who shoes horses. Fearon is a smith; also Ferrier. Fowler is a common surname, and explains its origin. This is sometimes contracted to Fowles and Fowle; also Vowler. Hayman or Hayward was the village official whose duty it was to guard the cattle that grazed on the village common, that they did not trespass on the ground where was the grass grown for hay during the winter. Until hedges became common, the hayward had to keep a sharp lookout on the cattle committed to his charge. Husband, the man who cultivated the portion of soil which derived from him the name of husband-land, a measure known in the Merse and Lothian. Hence the surname Younghusband  i. e., (John) Young the Husband (land-holder). Sawyer, also Sagar and Sayer. Shepherd, spelled as a surname also Shepherd and Sheppard. Woodman, Woodreve, as a surname Woodrow, Woodward, Woodyer. Wright, either a wainwright or a wheelwright  the former synonymous with a Cartwright. In the castle there were many officials and after the Conqueror's time they were all of foreign blood. Below the upper line of Retainers there were villeins, boors, cotters, and churles. line 
 official class was very large, and many surnames have come down to us from the titles of these foreign Norman office holders. These were: Assayer, a taster, to assure the lord at table that the food and drink had not been poisoned. The names Saver, Savers, Saer. come hence. Bailiff, the same as reeve or steward. Bower and Bawers, an indoor servant, attendant on the ladies. Also Bowerman and Burman. Chamberlain, one of the most intimate servants in a seigneurial house. The surname from the office is sometimes shortened to Chambers. Cook or Le Coq, a very important functionary. His name enters into numerous combinations, as Babcock (Bartholomew le coq), Wilcox (Will le coq), Hancock (John le coq). The entry "Robert, fil, Coci" in the Hungred Rolls shows them some Cooks' sons were so designated whose fathers had no recognized surnames. Also Kitchen and Kitchener. Esquire. The place of shield-bearer and attendant on a noble or knight was much sought after by the sons of men in good position as it was an admirable apprenticeship for war. Forester, a very important officer charged with the supervision of the royal forests. From these officers, when the offices became hereditary, came the surnames of Forester, Forster, Foster. Gardener. The name is French. The surname often spelled Gardiner and Gardner, also Jardine. Gaoler, a French name, showing that no Englishman could be trusted by a Norman with the keys of the prison. The surnames from the office are Gayler, Gale, and Jelly, perhaps. Granger, one who occupies the grange of the lord, secular or ecclesiastical, in which the corn "grain" was stored. Harper. Most large castles had in them a harper. Hartman, the officer who looked after the harts in the chase. The surname from it may be Hardman, and sometimes only Hart. Hind, the man who looked after his master's affairs in the home-farm. Hence the surnames Hynde and Hyne. Huntsman. As Hunter, the name of the office remains a surname. Shortened also to Hunt. Knight, by no means invariably, means one who has received knighthood. A knight is a knecht, a servant. The surname Midnight, perhaps, means the "mead-knight, the man who poured out the mead. Jackman, a man-at-arms in a coat of mail, or jacket, and wearing jack-boots. Marshall, originally the horse-groom. He 'rose into consideration and became a regulator of ceremonies. Miller. The Mill belonged to the lord of the manor, and the tenants were not allowed to grind their corn at any other Hence Milner and Milward (Anglo-Saxon for a miller), Millman. Page; of this Paget is the diminutive. Parker, the official in charge of the deerpark. Hence Parkman, Parkes. Porter, the gatekeeper. The family of Porter of Saltash is one of hereditary gatekeepers of Trematon Castle. The English of Porter is Durward. Ranger, a keeper. Reve, from Gerefa. Woodkeepers, whence the surnames Woodward, Woodrow, and Woodruff. Rider. The Barons maintained German mercenaries as horsemen. These were the Reiter, or, as the English called them. Reuters. They soon, however, changed Reuter into Rider and Ryder. Sewer is simply a server, a waiter. The "Boke of Servynge" says: "The server must serve, and from the bord convey all manner come of Sour pottages, and Shower. metes, and sauces." As a surname it has be QUESTIONS. Who were the Celts? (See history). Describe again the Domesday Book and its purpose. (See any encyclopedia). What value is this Book to genealogists? What surnames grew out of professions? How did officials in castles or manors get surnames? Give a list of official surnames. What surnames are there in your class that