[Vol40 | July 1953 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Work Spending]

I 7) Vork ITleeting—Family Money Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 1—Children's Spending Rhea H. Gardner (For Tuesday, October 13, 1953) PARENTS desire happiness for their children. If it could be handed to them in a packet, especially at the time in life when children leave the protective influence of home and parents, it would be comparatively easy.
Some parents have thought they were doing this when they have given them money, however, money can bolster or block happiness. It bolsters by buying necessities and making it possible for some of our fondest wishes to come true. It blocks the flow of happiness when it causes worry, envy, and greed. An important rea- 484 son for teaching children the value of money is to help them see it in its true perspective in their lives.
They need help in learning what money cannot buy as well as what it can buy. To teach children to use money so that it will bolster their own happiness as well as that of others, is a major responsibility of parenthood.
Most of the seeds that result in an erroneous attitude toward money are sown in the early years of life and are closely associated with children's early experiences in handling money.
Attitudes toward money are developed when parents give children a small amount of money to handle in the form of a regular allowance.
Child guidance teachers agree that a child should be given an allowance as soon as he shows a persistent need for money.
Spending money properly is an important part of his nurture, just as certain food elements are.
When the need of an allowance comes in the development of your child, talk the matter of it over with him.
Decide on a plan for giving him an allowance, even though the amount is only a few cents a week. It is important that children understand that the allowance is a share in the family income. For it they may be expected to share in responsibilities about the home, farm, or other place of business, and to take part in matters of concern to the entire family, depending upon the size of the allowance.
Before giving your child an allowance be sure he understands: 1. How much money is going to be received and when. 2.
What items it must cover.  3.
What his responsibility will be in spending the money.
Giving children money as a result of begging and coaxing, throws away an excellent educational opportunity.
Instead of learning to plan and spend wisely on an allowance, children learn to associate cajolery and even subterfuge with the whole matter.
There are usually mistakes made by children in the early stages of handling money.
Tnal and error are necessary in all kinds of learning.
Taking consequences of extravagance at six or seven, however, ls likely to be less costly than making mistakes ten or twelve years later. A child will not spend money as would an adult, but before calling a purchase "foolish," be sure you are not judging by your own standards, but by your child's. As long as he spends only the money given in an allowance, let him have freedom to choose how it will be spent, even though it may mean making mistakes and having regrets. The privilege of having some money to spend as one wishes, helps to satisfy a real need children have for independence. If the amount of the allowance has been matched to the age and abilities of the child, and if he understands that when it is gone there will be no more until next pay day, there will likely be few mistakes made by him.
Most children need much understanding help before they learn how to use their money to get both the things they need and the things they want.
Frequent and friendly discussions at home and guidance in making decisions when a purchase is about to be made, will help in the LESSON DEPARTMENT development of sound judgment and the right sense of value.
This ls also a very opportune time to teach the principle of tithing to your children.
Help them to understand from the very beginning that onetenth belongs to their Heavenly Father.
Some parents feel that they have done their duty when they have succeeded in teaching their children to save part of their income.
There is no doubt of the virtue in teaching a child to save, but saving money for its own sake is not the best policy.
Children should understand what they are saving for. Saving, then, is regarded as planned spending, and is a very worthwhile practice. The six, seven, or eight-year-old can only be expected to save for goals he can reach in a few weeks.
After all, that is a long while to him, for he lives in the present and likes to see results soon.
Children need to learn to spend as well as to save.
Both are educational, but wise spending is harder to learn and harder to teach than is saving.
Children who have learned to think straight about spending and saving have a better chance for happiness all through life. As they grow older, children should be frankly told the limits of 485 family expenditures and consulted when a choice has to be made. Let them help decide what the family income should buy and what could best be postponed.
They may be asked to help decide whether mother or father should have a new coat, or if they should get a new bicycle, if there is only enough money for one. To learn early the value and profitable use of money is one of the greatest securities for future contentment and an indispensable spur to individual initiative and ambition.
When a child is allowed to handle his own earnings, count his dollars, and decide what he can and cannot do with them, and have a part in deciding for what the family income should be spent, he is well on the way toward a realization of values, monetary and otherwise, that are essential for complete maturity and happiness in living. He automatically learns to think of the needs of others, as well as of himself, when he has money to spend.
Thoughts for Discussion 1. How does the use of the family mcome directly influence the atmosphere within the home? 2. How does the manner in which children obtain and use their income influence their behavior and character?
Song fo My Sous Grace Savre Never to s peak the name that to me is dearest Or tell the dream of you in my heart, that is nearest; Never to acquiesce that one and one only Can keep the hungry Never to heart from being lonely, speak of these, these lovely things, But hold to remembered a lest it take wings, Never.. And yet the sound of your dear name Can surge 'through my heart and burst into flame.