[Vol40 | July 1953 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: By Early Candlelight VI Home]

Industry and Manufacturing in a Pioneer Home Bonnie A. Kesler HEN evening shadows fell across the fields and homes, the various problems were weighed by the comforting fireside. It was by early candlelight that so many of the pioneers, Annie and Hyrum among them, summoned _ their courage to solve their difficult problems. It was then, especially, that talents made themselves known and friends and neighbors worked together. One outstanding characteristic was resourcefulness. When Hyrum slaughtered his animals, he saw to it that all parts were used: hoofs for glue, bristles for brushes; the unused hair was mixed into plaster to reinforce it.
Willows were used for basket Page 460 weaving, potter's clay was taken from the ditch banks and used for earthenware.
Straw was used by Annie in making hats; corn husks were used for brooms; and cattails and reeds for weaving.
Buffalo horns were used to make combs by sawing the horn lengthwise, and using a fine saw to form the teeth of the comb.
Buffalo hides were used for floor and lap coverings. While Annie and her daughters had their varying occupations during the long winter evenings, so did Hyrum and his sons.
They made beautiful wooden bowls, spoons, ladles, potato mashers, and other useful items.
Meat choppers were made of a single blade, with BY EARLY CANDLELIGHT a handle added, often carved from elk or deer horns.
Annie had her own wooden churn. She skimmed the cream and saved it until there was enough to churn, then stored the butter in the cellar, or in a bucket in the well, or in the shade by the running stream. A few men knew how to make molasses from home-grown sugar cane. Little Jane, Annie's third child, was pleased when she could carry homemade bread and butter spread with molasses to school in her lunch can. She was proud of her lunch can, and had watched and waited.
When her daddy's axle grease can was finally: empty of grease, she had asked for it, washed it well, and used it for her lunch can.
Annie saw to it that her household was always well supplied with candles.
When their supply would get low, she would place her candlemold on end so that the small end, or top of the candle, hung down. Out of holes in the tips of the candle mold she would hang the wick or string about one half inch. As the mold was resting on its top, the wicks on the bottom (which was up) were tied to small strips of wood lying across the holes, through which the melted tallow was care- ~~, —_: Hilf ffts 461 fully poured to fill the individual spaces for candles.
After the tallow was cool and solid, the strips of wood were removed and saved for the next time. The mold was dipped into hot water, and the candles slipped out, ready for use. If ever there was not time to make candles, Annie poured a little tallow into the frog dish and then would put either candle wicking or a cotton rag about one inch into the tallow, before it set, and light the rag or wick. It would burn until the tallow was all gone, perhaps for several hours.
Another source of light was the "coil all" lamp, which burned coaloil or kerosene. By turning the knob on the side, the wick could be raised or lowered, making a dimmer or brighter light. It was a weekly chore for one of Annie's family to wash the smoke from the glass chimneys, making them sparkle and shine again. A rather rough candle was made by dipping a string into melted tallow, then allowing it to dry, then dipping again and cooling it, until the desired size was reached. | Annie's family started the day by dipping water from the creek or well for culinary purposes.