[Vol40 | July 1953 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Grandmothers Album]
(grandmothers  xyilbum 
Amy  Viau 
The  album  on  the  oval  stand 
In  Grandmother's  parlor,  was  very  grand, 
With  plush-faced  cover  and  clasp  of  gold, 
To  a  little  girl  but  five  years  old. 
And  Grandmother  said  the  pictures  within 
The  album  were  mostly  of  "our  kin" — 
But  more  than  "our  kin,"  they  looked  to  me 
Like  strangers  dressed  for  company. 
Except  my  picture,  in  which  I'd  smiled 
And  looked  just  like  an  "our  kin"  child. 
And  when  I  told  Grandmother  this 
She  gave  my  cheek  a  little  kiss. 
My  Grandmother  handled  the  album  with  care 
While  we  looked  at  it  from  the  rocking  chair; 
And  when  she  closed  it  with  clasp  in  place. 
She  let  me  feel  its  smooth  plush  face.

LIZZIE  McARTHUR,  ST.  GEORGE,  UTAH 
uiobbies  Jxeep  uier    LJoung  ana   uiappyi 
cosmetic  boxes,  and  many  beautiful  wall 
plaques.  Her  floral  designs  on  these 
pieces  are  most  carefully  formed  and 
beautifully  tinted  in  raised  petal  arrange- 
ments. 
Mrs.  McArthur  has  been  a  skilful  and 
gifted  artisan  since  early  girlhood.  She 
began  to  sew  at  the  age  of  fifteen  and  was 
noted  in  her  community  as  a  tailoress  be- 
fore the  age  of  twenty-five.  She  support- 
ed herself  and  two  children  by  following 
this  profession  while  her  husband  fulfilled 
a  mission.  She  is  an  expert  quilter  and 
is  adept  at  all  types  of  needlework,  mak- 
ing embroidery  designs,  applique,  cro- 
chet work,  hooked  rugs,  and  many  other 
kinds  of  decorative  household  articles.  She 
enjoys  textile  painting  and  has  also  done 
some  excellent  work  in  oil  painting. 
While  assisting  her  husband  in  operating 
a  bakery,  Mrs.  McArthur  learned  the  art 
of  cake  decorating  and  is  skilled  in  this 
exacting  art,  having  made  hundreds  of 
birthday  and  wedding  cakes. 
She  is  the  mother  of  six  children,  nine- 
teen grandchildren,  and  fifteen  great-great- 
grandchildren. She  is  still  active  in  Relief 
Society  work,  serving  as  a  visiting  teacher, 
in  which  capacity  she  has  acted  for  more 
than  fifty  years. 
T  IZZIE  McARTHUR,  seventy-nine,  is 
■'-'  working  on  a  new  hobby  which  she 
began  three  years  ago — ceramics  and  china 
painting.  She  models  and  decorates  ex- 
quisite figurines,  book  ends,  and  novelty 
designs  and  paints  and  decorates  vases, 
plates,  clocks,  cups  and  saucers,  candy  and 
Page  464

The  Fried  Shirt 
Mary  C.   Martineau 
JOHN  TUTTLE  just  would  not 
•^  wear  his  fried  shirt  to  the  ward 
sociable— no  matter  what  his  wife 
Esther  said.  She  felt  baffled,  for 
pioneer  men  nearly  always  bent  to 
the  will  of  their  wives  in  the  matter 
of  shirts  and  wore  fried  shirts  on 
special  occasions.  But  John  would 
not. 
He  hated  his  fried  shirt,  and 
when  Esther  firmly  got  it  ready  for 
him  to  wear  to  the  ward  sociable, 
he  simply  rebelled,  saying,  ''Esther, 
youVe  overstepped  your  bounds  this 
time.  Vd  rather  not  go  than  put  it 
on." 
Now  you  have  heard  of  work 
shirts,  sports  shirts,  dress  shirts,  and 
stuffed  shirts;  but  do  you  really 
know  what  a  "fried  shirt"  was? 
Well,  it  was  a  white  shirt  whose 
bosom,  neckband,  and  cuffs  had 
been  starched  twice  (once  with 
cooked  starch  and  once  with  cold 
starch)  and  then  ironed  by  a  de- 
termined pioneer  woman  wielding 
a  big,  black,  sizzling  hot  flatiron 
until  bosom,  neckband,  and  cuffs 
took  on  an  appearance  of  snowy, 
shiny  elegance,  and  the  stiffness  of 
a  suit  of  armor  without  the  bend- 
ing joints. 
The  collar  for  a  fried  shirt  was 
separate.  After  being  treated  in  the 
same  manner  as  the  shirt,  it  lay 
out  stiff  and  straight  until  brought 
under  control  by  collar  buttons,  a 
back  one  and  a  front  one.  The 
back  button  was  the  shorter,  be- 
cause it  only  had  to  reach  through 
the  holes  in  the  neckband  and  col- 
lar, thus  forming  a  connecting  link 
between  a  man's  back  and  his  neck. 
The  front  button  was  longer,  be- 
cause it  had  to  reach  through  both 
ends  of  the  neckband  and  both 
ends  of  the  collar  in  front,  where  it 
served  as  a  sort  of  ''king  bolt"  for 
the  whole  arrangement. 
Esther  told  John  he  was  contrary, 
and  she  always  did  have  to  make 
him  put  on  his  nice  things.  She 
also  said  that  some  men,  not  so  nice 
looking  as  he,  or  in  such  a  high 
position,  put  on  their  fried  shirts 
gladly. 
John  replied  it  was  all  they  had 
to  do,  but  that  he'd  rather  stay 
home  than  wear  his!  Of  course, 
he  couldn't  stay  home  from  meet- 
ing, for  attending  one's  meetings 
and  hearing  the  sermon  preached 
on  a  Sunday,  and  then  practicing 
what  he  heard  the  other  six  days 
of  the  week  was  what  had  brought 
him  the  reason  to  come  to  Utah.  So, 
he  always  bowed  to  Esther's  will  on 
Sundays.  But,  he  simply  would  not 
wear  his  fried  shirt  to  the  sociable. 
They  had  two  enlarged  pictures 
hanging  on  the  wall,  one  of  Esther's 
father  and  one  of  John's  father,  both 
fine  looking  men!  But,  although 
each  wore  a  full  beard,  Esther  al- 
ways imagined  that  everybody  who 
looked  at  her  father's  picture  no- 
ticed at  a  glance  that  he  didn't  wear 
a  collar.  It  was  a  source  of  grief  to 
Esther— but  a  joy  to  John  now  he 
was  feeling  contrary  about  the 
party.  When  Esther  had  had  her 
father's  picture  enlarged  the  pho- 
tographer had  promised  that  he 
would  add  a  collar  and  cravat,  but 
Page  465