[Vol40 | July 1953 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Dancing]
Dancing by Campfire Lael W. Hill Firelight runs over hillock and hollow, The music is sweet and the night is for dancing; Lifting and drifting, the smoke-spirals follow— I see the long shadows retreating, advancing. The music is sweet and the night is for dancing— Oh, where is my love to swing me, to guide me? I see the long shadows retreating, advancing— Oh, where is the partner who should be beside me? Oh, where is my love to swing me, to guide me? The footsteps turn lightly, their swift rhythm wants me— Oh, where is the partner who should be beside me?
Another strange music of mystery haunts me. The footsteps turn lightly, their swift rhythm wants me— Lifting and drifting, the smoke-spirals follow; Another strange music of mystery haunts me.
Firelight runs over hillock and hollow! A Lady's Skirt Blanche Kendall McKey BIGAIL packed the few dishes the three of them had used at lunch, and tucked the six remaining biscuits carefully in a tin box. As she moved back and forth, the lace of her petticoats caught at times in the low clumps of sagebrush, but she absently shook herself free. For the moment she scarcely saw Paul's sturdy.
Little form, quiet in sleep, beneath an improvised tent. Even Warren, bent over his broken wheel, faded from her view, as did the limitless stretch of gray plains to the east and the purple outline of western hills. She was seeing budding hedgerows and patches of sweet lavender in England.
They were still three hundred miles from Zion. The summer was old in the desert, but the midday rays were hot. "Will you bring me the small hammer, Abigail?" She lifted Warren's tool from a small chest lying open on the ground; and as she came toward him, again the lace of her many petticoats clung to the shrubbery. She pulled them free and stooped to look for snags in the scalloped edges.
Warren had risen, stretching the muscles of his back, and now stood frowning under his broad brim as he watched her. "If you would pack two-thirds of your skirts in the trunk, we'd get along better. There's no place for hoops in this country." The irritation in his voice grated on Abigail's nerves, because she Page 450 had just seen a vision of herself and Warren, immaculate and dewyeyed, strolling through a country lane in Surrey. "And not even look like a woman?" she flashed. "Just like a a well, like a wooden slat?" In spite of their dire situation, Warren smiled. His quick glance, taking in her entire person, was warm with admiration. "Spitfire," he teased, half under his breath. | She stepped closer and slipped her hand over his damp shirt until it rested on his shoulder. "Tm thinking of Paul," she said, looking back at the child lying between two bunches of sagebrush. "Nobody wants to raise a son who will know nothing but digging. And enduring."
Warren gazed at the boy, sunbaked, wind-blown, and small for his nearly four years. His expression was a mixture of tenderness and perplexity.
Finally he walked back to the wagon wheel. "We'll have to make the best of things as we find them," he said.
Abigail followed him, speaking hopefully. "You know how cheerful my aunt's letters have been the last few years.
Things aren't so bad now in Deseret. I've been hoping all along that with your education and my music and sweet little Paul, we would take something beautiful to the desert." "Those things aren't fundamental, Abbie," he answered, shortly.
Under her blue sunbonnet, she studied him as he hunted about for A LADY'S SKIRT a piece of wood and, eventually, chopped off the end of her broom handle and went to work wiring a broken spoke in the wagon wheel. His naturally fair skin was baked to a deep brown. The locks of hair that straggled down from the brim of his hat were baked, also, and faded to a dull yellow.
There were "squinting" lines around his eyes and down his forehead. She put her hand to her own parched face and felt its roughness. Her lips burned; perhaps they would be blistered tomorrow. The vision came again of English gardens, of gentle rain, of rustling silken skirts. A quick indrawn breath made a choking sound in her throat. ARREN laid down his roll of wire and went to her, taking her arms in a firm grip. "Do you ever stop to think that your chief trouble is your husband?" he demanded. Her searching eyes found no explanation in his drawn face. "You, Warren?" she _ breathed slowly. "The schoolmaster was all right in an old village, but here...." "Without you, I'm _ nothing, Warten." "T don't know enough about oxen. 'That's why the wagon keeps giving way. You have to understand - animals and things, as well as people, or something goes wrong. You should have married a mechanic in your father's shop." "Tm frightened, Warren, I'm afraid of the mountains even when I'm with you." "We've got to accept them and live with them.
Books are no good here." 451 "Wait," she whispered. "Wait a little longer.
Books will be great in Zion." He brightened. "How is your aim today?" he asked enthusiastically.
Swinging into the wagon, he emerged with a battered target and a rifle. He handed Abigail the latter and set the target against a sturdy growth of sagebrush. She fired. ~ "Good," he cried. "Now closer to the mark." ~ Her second shot was better. "Fine. 'Try again."
