SALT LAKE CITY.	-	JUNE 15, 1882.


[Column 1]
		DESERET HOSPITAL.
	Every man and woman who sees this title
will certainly feel a thrill of gladness that steps
have been taken to inaugurate such an institution
for the sick and afflicted. Long has this need
been felt, and efforts have several times been
made to obtain the desired result, yet in the past
they have proved ineffectual, but at this time 
all things seem propitious. It has been taken
hold of with a determination that should merit
success. The Relief Society organized in each 
ward often finds itself laboring under great
difficulties for lack of the facilities necessary in
case of accident and those emergencies of various
kinds incidental to human life that require
special attention.
	It is sincerely to be hoped that the people
evreywhere will appreciate the needs for a
hospital, and the benefits which will accrue to 
the sick and distressed, and will lend their
influence and donate liberally of the means
which is in their possession,for the establishment
and permanency of the hospital, that they may
receive the blessing of the Lord upon the sub-
stance over which they are made stewards.
This Hospital is under the direction of able
women, women of integrity and of faith, women
who have proved themselves capable of manag-
ing business affairs economically. Their names
are a guarantee that all will be done practically
with a view of the Hospital becoming self-sus-
taining to its utmost extent.
	Circulars have been published and are now
ready to distribute, throughout the country in
all the Stakes of Zion, setting forth the rules
and regulations, giving the names of officers and
including an appeal addressed to the Presidents of
Stakes, Bishops, Presidents and members of the
Relief Society, Superintendents and Presidents
of Y. L. and Y.  M. I. A.
	One of these circulars it is expected will as
soon as possible be put into the hands of the
persons named and it is earnestly desired they
will use their influence to aid in this benevolant
undertaking. And to all those who desire to
follow in the footsteps of the blessed Savior of
the world, this work will be assuredly, most ac-
ceptable. His time upon the earth was mostly
devoted to  healing the sick, the lame, the dumb,
the blind and those afflicted with all manner of
diseases. those who take upon themselves his
name should emulate his example; and it is well
known that He went about doing good.
	Officers of Deseret Hospital Association, Salt
Lake Cite--Pres. E. R. Snow Smith,: Vice-Pres.
Zina D. H. Young. Executive Board,M. Isabella
Horne, Marinda N. Hyde, Phebe Woodruff,
Bathsheba W. Smith, Jane S. Richards, Ellen
B. Ferguson M. D. Sec. Emmeline B. Wells,
Treas. Matilda M. Barratt, Chairman Visiting
Committee, Elizabeth Howard. Finance Com-
mittee--Mesdames Sarah M. Kimball, Priscilla
M. Staines, Priscilla Jennings, Annie G. Sharp,
Sarah Jane Cannon, Hannah T. King, Elizabeth

[Column 2]
Groosback, Ellen Dinwoodey, Elizabeth H.
Goddard, Sophia W. Taylor.  Resident Physi-
cian and Surgeon, Dr. E. B. Ferguson. Visiting
Board Dr. Seymour B. Young, Dr. W. F. Ander-
son.  Visiting Surgeon Eye and Ear, Dr.
Romaina B. Pratt. Clinical Registrar and Dis-
pensary Clerk, Mary E. VanSchoonhoven.
Mafron, Mary Ann McLean. The Stake
Presidents of the Relief Society are members of
the Honorary Committee, each one to represent
the interests of the Hospital in her respective
locality.
	Any lady member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, in good standing,
may become a member of this Association by
the payment of one dollar annually; such name
and amount to be sent to any member of the
Committee,to be voted upon at the next month-
ly meeting. The board of managers expect
to establish in connection with the Hospital,
school for the purpose of educating midwives
and training nurses for the sick, in order that
the people in all the Stakes of Zion may be
better supplied with efficient help in the hour of
extreme need.


