BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	I will now begin where I left off. My father,
Brigham Young, George A. Smith and Amasa
Lyman were on missions preaching in the south-
ern part of Illinois. The following extracts
are from a letter written by my mother, to
father; it is dated: Nauvoo, Oct. 16th, 1842.
	She says: "We still enjoy a comfortable
degree of health, though in the midst of sick-
ness and death. Sister Winchester told me she
saw four coffins carried by her house yesterday,
in one wagon—there are more or less buried
every day. Almost every family on the dis-
puted land are sick with a fever. Helen
watched last night where there were seven in
one family all sick—the woman nigh unto
death.	*	*	*	*
	"Sister Marinda Hyde is sick with chills and
fever. Brother Joseph and Emma were sick
when Bro. Brigham left. Emma was brought
down nigh unto death; Bro. Joseph despaired of
her life, he mourned over her and refused to be
comforted. But the Lord has spared her life
and she is now able to ride out. Joseph was
obliged to leave her before she was able to sit
up. He has left the place. I don't know
where he is, but suffice it to say they hear from
him occasionally, and all is well.	*	*	*
	"You mentioned my meeting you on your re-
turn home. I shall be happy to do so if cir-
cumstances will admit.	*	*	*
	"Our good friend S. (Sarah, father's other
wife) is as ever, and we are one. You said I
must tell you all my feelings; but if I were to
tell you that I sometimes felt tempted and tried
and feel as though my burden was greater
than I could bear, it would only be a source of
sorrow to you, and the Lord knows that I do
not wish to add one sorrow to your heart, for
be assured, my dear Heber, that I do not love
you any the less for what has transpired.


[Column 1]
neither do I believe that you do me; therefore
I will keep my bad feelings to myself, as much
as possible, and tell you the good. I can say
with propriety that the most of my time I feel
comfortable in my mind, and feel that I have
much to be thankful for. I realize that the
scenes we are called to pass through are calcu-
lated to wean us from the world, and prepare us
for a better one. My desire is to live while I
can be a comfort to you and to bring up our
children, for I don't know of a person on earth
that I should be willing to leave them with.
	"Brother Joseph felt it very keenly when he
thought his wife would not live. 'Oh dear,'
said he, 'what will become of my poor child-
ren?	*	*	*
	"Brother Joseph Kingsbury has buried his
wife to-day. She was confined yesterday. She
and child died within half an hour of each
other.	*	*	*
	"I must tell you a little of the prosperity in
Quincy. Sister Pinkham came up to fetch Br.
Adams; says there was a great turn out in
Quincy to hear him preach. The court house
was filled to overflowing, and many were be-
lieving; said she expected that Mr. Heywood
would be baptized when they returned, and
she did not know but his brother-inlaw, Kim-
ball, would also.	*	*	I must leave room
for Sister S. to write you a few lines.	*	*
	"I asked little David to-day, what I should
tell Pa; said he, 'Tell my Pa tum home see me.'
I must now bid you good night.
	"As ever, your affectionate wife;
					"VILATE KIMBALL."
	The family that my mother mentions where
I watched had lately come then from England
and were all laying sick in a house at the
steam boat landing. Katherine Walker, who
was living with Emma Smith, Diantha Farr
and myself sat up together. Joseph and his
family attended to them, and provided medi-
cines, watchers and whatever was needful, and
this was only one case out of many where he
acted as the "good Samaritan."
	Here is what my father's wife, Sarah, wrote
on the same sheet, though her name she with-
held because of the perilous times.
	"My very dear friend: Inasmuch as I have
listened to your counsel hitherto I have been
prospered, therefore I hope that I shall ever
adhere to it strictly in future.
	"Your kind letter was joyfully received. I
never read it but I receive some comfort and
feel strengthened, and I thank you for it. You
may depend upon my moving as soon as the
house is ready. I feel anxious as I perceive
my infirmities increasing daily. Your request
with regard to Sister Kimball I will attend to.
Nothing gives me more pleasure than to add to
the happiness of my friends; I only wish that I
had more ability to do so. I am very glad we
are likely to see you so soon, and pray that
nothing may occur to disappoint us. When
you request Vilate to meet you, perhaps you
forget that I shall then stand in jeopardy every
hour, and would not have her absent for worlds.
My mind is fixed and I am rather particular,
but still, for your comfort, I will submit.
						"I am as ever."
	It will be seen by the few lines written in
connection with my mother's letter that Sarah
Peeke Noon, who the Lord commanded through
his Prophet Joseph, that my father should take
to wife, was sealed to him, by the Prophet, as
early as 1842. Joseph Smith, who professes to
be his father's successor, has (in an anti-"mor-
mon" meeting, lately held in Chicago, a city
noted for its crimes, and the deepest dens of
infamy and corruption, the description, which
was lately given by a Rev. in that city, is so
soul sickening that it may well be called the
Sodom of the west; which is ripening so fast
that it may soon be wrapped again in another
consuming fire) declared that it was not until
1852 that polygamy was attempted to be in-

[Column 2]
troduced in the teachings of the church, and
that its introduction was a shameless trick of
wicked men, who were obliged to find an ex-
cuse to cover up their crimes."
	He must be blind not to see that his own
tongue has condemned him, not only as an un-
inspired leader, but an unprincipled enemy to
his own father's house. For he says, "In 1855
he began a crusade on his own hook, and in
1860, when he entered public life, it was with
the avowed determination to oppose polygamy
evermore."
	Now what man of God ever went to work on
his own hook,or even thought to set up his own
will independent of revelation from on high?
	The man, whoever he was, who told Elder
Joseph Smith that if an angel were to come
down from heaven and tell him polygamy was
wrong he would not believe the angel, was just
as much of an impostor as the Prophet's son,
who made the following reply, "I would believe,
but I would tell the angel to go to some one
else, for I would not preach the doctrine."
	A poor captain and soldier of the cross he
would make to stand as his father's representative
to carry out the purposes of the Almighty, for
which the Prophet was willing to suffer with
his people, and endure every kind of persecu-
tion, imprisonment and death, for the sake of
the religion which his son Joseph, under the
inspiration of the Evil one, has denied, and is
now leagued himself with the worst enemies of
his father to destroy the work for which he had
to suffer so much and at last lay down his life.
	His son declared that, although he had been
accused of being an apostate, he had always
been true to the faith taught by his father; and
"I have eagerly sought for a proof of the de-
vine inspiration of polygamy, but can not find
it, and believe the doctrine to be infamous,
root and branch."
	Here he contradicts himself, which is only
another proof of his infidelity and lack of in-
spiration, and wisdom from on high. He was
hardly old enough when his father was killed
to know or understand what his faith consisted
of; but if he entered public life with this
avowed determination, which he declares he
did, how could he expect to obtain any proofs
either one way or the other? For the Lord re-
quires of his children honesty and sincerity of
heart and purpose, in which selfishness must
have no place, and

"This prayer pray: Lord God! thy will be done;
Thy holy will, how'er it cross my own,
Hard labor this for flesh and blood."

subduing our wills and the pride of our
hearts is the deepest and hardest lesson that
mortals have to learn.
If Joseph Smith was in possession of the
true faith and Gospel of Christ, such as his
father enjoyed, he would now be treading in
his footsteps; being hated of all men, and suf-
fering persecution for righteousness sake, in-
stead of being where he is and lowering him-
self by joining in the hue and cry of the low;
contemptible and foul-mouthed hypocrites who
can scacely say that which is mean enough
against his martyred father. and his most true
and humble followers.

To be continued.


