SOUVENIRS OF LILAC-TIME.

	Fanciful as it may seem to practical people,
who affect to ignore sentiment in its relation to
the wonderful, nevertheless I have the courage
to declare myself a devoted admirer, not only
of the beautiful aud fantastic, but of the weird
in nature. It is a part of my composition, and
perhaps I am not altogether answerable if it
is not strictly "proper." Lilacs are one of my
especial weaknesses, for they are associated
with the earliest recollections of my child-life
and school-girl history. I never see a lilac
but it calls up tender memories connected with

[Column 2]
the past, that thrill me through and through
like electricity. The sweet-scented lilacs with
their handsome foliage, geat, "dark, green,
heart-shaped leaves. Artistic shrubbery that
forms many a shady pathway round the homes
of the people; within whose shadow many a
love- tale has been told and troth plighted; the
very name is musically poetical. Love letters
have been hidden away from curious eyes mid
the luxuriant branches, to wait the coming of
the ardent sweet-heart to read his true-love's
words by starlight. And, if I may tell, it the li-
lacbush oft holds many a precious secret silently.
How pleasant to recall the sweet remem-
brances that linger round the lilacs that bloomed
in the dear old garden and door-yard of our
early, happy home. A thousand other beauties
come with lilac-time and all these have their
place in the affections and mingle freely with
external objects. All have their associations
and call up particular incidents, persons, or
friendships each one having its own peculiar
music which finds its echo reverberating thro'
the brain and the sight of one of these
strikes the chord or touches the note which
wakens responding symphony in the soul and
a long train of half remembered indistinct
thoughts struggle for recognition in words.
	Spring time and beauty of wood, of field, of
grove and glen, songs of birds, hum of bees,
dance of butter-flies, and e'en the melancholy
croaking of the melancholy frogs, the jocund
and sparkling brooks, the cerulean sky; these
are synonyms of lilac-time. The wood violets
we call wild, little, pale delicate emblems of
innocence, abound at this season. How
often have I gathered them in my woodland
rambles, and how grateful was their exquisite
fragence! How tenderly they appealed to
the finer elements of my nature as I wreathed
them with the soft, fresh, green vines, and my
own love of the fantastic and weird grew more
and more apparent as I listened with keenest
zest to the sounds of forest music. Only "those
who know," can appreciate the feeling that
comes to the soul awake to all the fancies, as
well as realities of a deep wooded dell. The
pearly drops of morning dew on leaf and
flower and blade of grass, the charming atmos-
phere at sunrise, the rich delightful sunsets,
the evening twilight, the starlit nights, the
mellow, healing moonlight—all these are associ-
ated with lilac-time. The early lilies, bright
and beautiful, always reminding us of the
Savior's words "they toil not, neither do they
spin"—beautiful words which lead us to "Con-
sider." In the lilacs the blue-birds, sing and
sway [-]n the light boughs and swallows dart
hither and thither, and O how delightfully
the music mingles with the happy thoughts of
youth and maiden.
	Then too the apple-orchards bloom, and
daintily the pink and white perfumed leaves
bestrew the ground. The birds are building
their nests and singing pretty songs to woo
their mates meantime, and thus it is that lilac-
time and the pale apple-bloom, symbolize the
love-making. To linger in the orchards
and drink in the sweet fragrance in the open
air, while the happy birds keep merry time to
the music of fond hearts, is to partake most
freely at nature's banquet. It is good for us
to commune thus with nature's heart, to culti-
vate in our souls an intensity of affection for
the artistic works of a divine being, and be-
come endeared to Him more and more through
our high appreciation, not only of his love for
us, but all that he has caused to be for our joy
and delectation. Communion with the mys-
terious in what is termed the vegetable king-
dom, exalts one's nature by very contact, and,
indeed, when one speaks of heaven, or paradise
it is always as the place of immortal flowers,
and is associated in the mind as artistically
perfect in all its characteristics.
