HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON Tuesday May 9th, the Y. L. M. I. A., of
the 13th Ward held its regular meeting in the
Assembly Hall, pursuant to adjournment. Miss
Kate Wells presiding. The programme was a
good one and well rendered. There were several
lady visitors, and brief addresses were made by
Mesdames M. A. Freeze, E Howard and E. B.
Ferguson, M. D.

	ON Wednesday May 10th the Y. L. M. I. A. of
the First Ward celebrated their anniversary. A
beautiful feast was prepared at the residence of
the President, Mrs. Sarah Graham. Sister E. R.
S. Smith and many of her co-laborers were pres-
ent by invitation. At 2 p. m. a good congrega-
tion convened at the Ward Meeting House. Mrs.
S. Graham presiding. Brief speeches were made
by Mrs. Graham, Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith, M.
I. Horne, Phebe Wooduff, B. W. Smith, M. P.
Young, M. A. Freeze, Clara Y. Conrad, E. B.
Wells, E. Howard, Dr. E. B. Ferguson, and by
Coun. Steele. Afterwards some business was
transacted. Sister Graham's Counselors and
Secretary resigned their respective offices. The
resignations were accepted, and a vote of thanks
tendered them for their efficient labors in the
organization. The vacancies were filled by
electing Josephine Carter and Annie Brown,
Counselors; and Charlotte Argus, Secretary.

	ON Thursday May 11th the Annual Meeting of
the Relief Society was held in the meeting house
at Pleasant Grove, Mrs. Elvira S. Hirst presiding.
Bishop Schonfeld was present, and from Salt
Lake City, Mrs. M. I. Horne and her Coun-
selor Mrs. Helen M. Whitney, also the Editor of
the EXPONENT. The meeting was well at-
tended, the sisters speaking upon the duties
of the present time, and the necessity of being
humble and prayerful in order to keep the Spirit
of the Lord. Much good instruction was given.
Mrs. Rachel Whipple, Prest. 19th Ward R. S. of
this city, and Mrs. Mary A.Hazon, Prest. of Brigh-
ton were present and made some good remarks
Bishop Schonfeld and Elder Le Cheminant oc-
cupied a few minutes, and encouraged the sisters
in their labors. After the meeting all sat down
to a most delicious dinner, which had been pre-
pared by the sisters of the Relief Society. The
time was happily spent in conversation, and all
felt well pleased with the success of the meeting
and visit. The families live on farms so far
from each other, that a reunion of this kind is
exceedingly pleasant and enjoyable.

	A MOVEMENT is being made to give the "old
folks" an excursion, from the various points, not
far distant, to this city to spend a day at Liberty
Park. It is a noble undertaking and is being
taken hold of in earnest, and with such efficient
workers that there is no doubt of its success.
The people will no doubt respond cheerfully and
liberally to aid in giving pleasure and recreation
to the "Old Folks."

	WE recieved, by courtesy of James A. Little,
Esq., a Hymn Book entitled "Hymns of Praise
for the Young." It is by Joel H. Johnson, an
old time "Mormon." The hymns are all of
them rich in religious sentiment and of a de-
votional character. Many of them refer speci-
ally to the latter-day dispensation, the gather-
ing and events that have transpired since this
Church was organized. The author has dis-
played considerable native talent in his writings

[Column 2]
and it is a work that will be good for not only
the young people, but all Saints. Bro. Johnson
is an Eastern man, born and raised in Mass.
The book was published at the Deseret News
Office, and is for sale there. Price $1.00.

	A FEW days ago we received by mail, "The
Mormon Problem." It is "A Letter to the Mas-
sachusetts Members of Congress on Plural Mar-
riage: Its Morality and Lawfulness;" by a
citizen of Massachussetts. The letter is a ring-
ing appeal to these honorable gentlemen, and
many legal arguments are brought to bear
strongly upon the question. Opinions of great
and wise men are given, and extracts from his-
tory, as well as testimony of individuals, are
compiled in a forcible and interesting style. It is
worth reading and studying as it is an able
defense.

	THE Ladies' Conference of this Stake of Zion
will be held in this city on the 16th and 17th, of
June. As there are some very important mat-
ters under consideration, it is earnestly hoped
there will be a large attendance.

	ON Wednesday, May 17th, the 10th Ward P.
A. held its annual meeting in the meeting
house. Mrs. Jennie McLean presiding. There
were over a hundred children present and the
programme was a good one and well rendered.
After the meeting all the company repaired to
Fuller's Hill, where the officers had arranged
for a feast for all. The day was a fine one and
all enjoyed themselves.

	THE 19th, Ward held their annual meeting
May 19th, Sister Rebecca Noel presiding. There
were one hundred and twenty-five children pres-
ent. Exercises were well rendered. A pleas-
ing feature of the meeting was the reading of
their little paper, "The Gem," edited mothly
by one of the older members, every one contri-
buting who will.
	The motto of the paper is:

"O let our crown be truth,
	Our motto virtue be,
Preparing us for life
	And for eternity."

	The editorial was appropriate, by Miss Ella
Nebeker, and the little essays which composed
its pages were all very good, and it was very well
read. A presentation was made to the Presi-
dent in behalf of the Association, by Miss Addie
Pugsley in a very graceful manner. It was a
picture of the First Presidency, handsomely
framed. Sister Caroline Raleigh made a few
remarks, and the President responded happily.
The children went for a May walk up City
Creek Canyon the following day.


