HUMAN SLAVERY.

	Profesor Felix Adler, in his lecture on "The
Position of Woman in the Present," offers to
our thoughts a most painful theme, one that is
calculated to impress the most careless mind.
The details are terrible in the extreme. He
says, very truly, that "woman in the present is,
as in the past, the slave of her master—man,"
and remarks that if he should say slavery ex-
ists to-day, the statement would be received
with incredulity. One at ease might smile and
shrug her shoulders and say she is comfortable
and contented, for some women who have hus-
bands, fathers and brothers to take care of
them in luxury think that all their sisters
should be satisfied with their lot, while the
truth is that many of them have not even the


common decencies of life. In Germany, ac-
cording to an eminent physician, women are
placed on a level with men. Eighty-five per cent.
of those who die from mercurial poisoning con-
tracted in the looking-glass factories of Ger-
many are women. In England, where factory
legislation has accomplished so much, an ap-
palling state of things exists. In the "Black
country," the chain and nail making parts of
England, the reports of the government in-
spectors have told a terrible tale. In a row of
chain shops women alone could be found at
work, their husbands lolling idly against the
walls. Men marry nailers, as they are called,
to live on their labor, and drink up their earn-
ings. The reason women are employed is be-
cause more work can be wrung out of them
than out of men; they are more docile and
submissive. For a week's work they have eight
shillings, and after paying their baby tenders,
the firers-up at the forge, and other expenses,
have three shillings and sixpence left. In the
agricultural districts women and children are
worked in gangs, driven by the gang-master
from field to field, far away from home, in semi-
male attire. But the collieries of Scotland
surpass the imagination. Women are com-
pelled to work in mines filled with gas and
flooded with water. They seldom live to be
over thirty or forty years of age. Little girls
of four are taken into collieries, and at six
carry loads of a hundred and a hundred and
fifty pounds on their backs. The women are
nude to the waist and wear a pair of loose
trousers. Around the waist is a belt to which
is attached a heavy chain dragged between
their knees. With this chain they pull loads
of coal through long, low, damp passages, com-
pelled to go on all fours like brutes, hauling in
this manner loads 16,000 yards a day. Prof.
Adler speaks of having seen a picture in which
a man with his bare hands is digging a grave
for his paramour. "But what," he asks, "is
this to the picture I have drawn?" I should
like to see some painter who can dip his brush
in this mess of hell and paint naked women
with belts about their waists and chains drag-
ging between their knees. That picture would
be real. It is not by their husbands alone that
they are compelled to this toil, but by the
owners of the collieries—the gentlemen of
England. He speaks of the law in Switzer-
land giving to women an hour and a half in
the middle of the day, and remarks that no
provision of this sort has yet been made in
free America. Yet in the old slavery days, a
slave woman who had a child was always
allowed an hour at noon from field labor.
Prof. Adler says it is poverty that makes the
woman question and it gives it its direct
aspect.—The Alpha.


