A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.
MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
Continued.
It is not anticipated that in this brief narra-
tive one can describe all the trying scenes and 
hardships through which Mrs. Horne passed
during the persecutions and drivings of the
Saints; but merely to state a few facts that the
world may be informed in regard to the afflic-
tions and patient endurance of those who were
the sufferers from mobs and drivings in the
early days of the church. To tell it all would
be a task for more than mortal, only the angels
who watched over and guarded the people
then, could do that.
In the month of August of 1938, before Mrs.
Horne had fairly recovered from her recent
illness, and while her babe was less than a
month old, she removed with her family to Far
West, where the largest body of the Saints were
located; and from the exposure took chills and
fever, which prostrated her for some time. At
one time on the route, they stopped at night on
a prairie where they could neither obtain wood
or water, and were tormented with mosquitoes
beyond endurance; Mrs. Horne was compelled
to keep a handkerchief waving all night over
herself and children, and the horses were so
restless, on account of being bitten by these
insects, that, in the middle of the night, Mr.
Horne was obliged to harness them and pro-
ceed on the journey in the dark. It was
8 o'clock in the morning before they reached
water, and then it made them so sick that they
were obliged to discontinue the journey for
the day. When they arrived at Far West
they could find no suitable place to live in
but were obliged to go into a log house with-
out doors or windows; it was built on blocks of
wood and was so high from the ground that

the sheep would lie under the building bleat-
ing all night, which was a very great annoy-
ance. In this miserable log cabin Mrs. Horne
lived during the time of the persecutions of
the Saints. Here her eldest daughter was
taken very ill, and her life  despaired of, in
fact it seemed impossible for her to get better.
The mother of the Prophet, Mrs. Lucy Smith,
came and blessed the child, and said she should
live. This was something new in that age, for
a woman to administer to the sick, but the
Lord blessed the administration and manifested
his power in behalf of the child, and she
speedily recovered. It was about this time
that the excitement in Missouri raged, and the
persecution was at its height. Mrs. Horne
was left much alone nights, as well as days,
with her little ones, her husband being de-
tained on guard; she knew not at what moment
the mob would break in and destroy them all.
But in all these trying scenes she never fal-
tered, or feared, but trusted in God for deliver-
ance.
 The mob threatened women and children
with all sorts of dreadful things, and in many
instances carried their inhuman threats into
execution. They wanted to get possession of
the Prophet and the leaders of the people, as
the Jews did of Jesus and the Apostles; and
they hunted Joseph down, upon one pretext
and another, until they accomplished their
wicked design. Mrs. Horne says, "I shall never
forget the  night when our Prophet and his
brethren were taken to the enemy’s camp. If
all the fiends of the lower regions had been let
loose they could not have made a more hideous
noise than was made by the mob that night.
They were clamoring and exulting over our
brethren during the whole night. The next
day, while I was standing in the door of the
house, several of the mob rode up and said,
'Bid your prophet good-bye, for you will not
see him again until you see him in hades,’
but not using so mild a word. The Saints sor-
rowed and mourned for him, and the Lord
eventually delivered him out of their hands.”
Mrs. Horne soon after removed with her hus-
band and family, and the family of her hus-
band's father, to Plattsburg, about twenty miles
from Far West, where they spent the winter;
ten in number in one room. Mrs. Horne was
sick with chills and fever and her life despaired
of—her babe too was afflicted with erysipelas,
but the Lord healed them and brought them
safe through all these trying scenes. In the
Spring of 1839 Mrs. Horne and family left
the state of Missouri as exiles, and sought an
asylum in Illinois, and arrived in Quincy, on 
the Mississippi River, in the early part of May.
Here, for a time, they found peace and rest 
from their oppressors. Mrs. Horne assisted her
husband in supporting the family, by taking
in fine sewing. She has ever been a helpmeet
in very deed, and her hands are never idle.
Many of the beautiful sayings of Solomon in
the thirty-first chapter of Proverbs, might
well be applied to her:
"She looketh well to the ways of her house-
hold and eateth not the bread of idleness."
"Her children arise up, and call her blessed:
her husband also, and he praiseth her."
"Her husband is known in the gates, when
he sitteth among the elders of the land."
	There words are truly applicable to Mrs.
Horne for she has labored diligently in her 
own household and her family have profited
by her teaching and example.

In Quincy her children had scarlet fever,
and, notwithstanding the careful nursing and
the medical attendance of Dr. Williams, a well
known physician there, the eldest little girl
died on the 26th of November, 1839. Mrs.
Horne’s own health was poor, and her cares
and anxiety were very great. On the 16th of
July 1840, another son was born to them.
They named him William Joseph. In the
Fall Mrs. Horne visited Nauvoo, meeting there
with many of her old friends and acquaintan-
ces, who, also, had passed through the
trials and persecutions in Missouri. The next
year, 1841, Mr. and Mrs. Horne went to
Nauvoo to the celebration of the 4th of July.
Returning home they encountered in the night
a most terrific storm of thunder and lightning,
the darkness was intense, except when the vivid
flashes of lightning illimined the surroundings.
They had no covers to the wagons, or protec-
tion from the storm, and were thus exposed to
the rain, which fell in torrents, and they were
drenched through and through. The exposure
was too great and Mrs. Horne and  babe were
both taken sick. Again, she says "we employed
a doctor, at the earnest solicitations of our
friends;" but the baby died on the 26th day of
July. The mother felt so grieved that she
promised the Lord she would never employ
another doctor to  please anybody, but would
exercise faith in the ordinances of the Church,
and leave the result with Him. This covenant
she has faithfully kept up to the present time.


