			PARIS, IDAHO.
	Minutes of a general meeting of the Sisters
held in Paris, Saturday and Sunday, April
22nd and 23d, 1882. Present on the stand—
President Wm. Budge, Julia P. Lindsay, E.
Collings and M. Rich, of Stake Presidency of
the Relief Society; Mrs M. I. Horne, of Salt
Lake City; Prest. A. Laker, of Stake Primary
and others.
	10 A. M.—Singing; prayer by President
Wm. Budge; singing.
	Prest. Lindsay was pleased to meet with the
sisters, and to have the pleasure of Sister
Horne's company, and trusted all would give
her their faith and prayers, and those who
should speak, that they might do so by the
spirit of God.
	Sister Horne thought it was better for all to
meet together, as it would be impossible for her
to visit them in the different settlements. We
are living in peculiar times. Satan is trying
all he can to overthrow us and therefore we
must pray continually for God's protection and
care, and live humbly and prayerfully before
him. The speaker had always made it a point
of committing herself and family to God's
care, before starting on a journey. Advised
mothers to teach their children to be truthful
and obedient to their parents; said, Are we
seeking to live the will of our Heavenly
Father? If we are not, we will be beaten with
many stripes, for we have the same chances as
our brethren. We must seek the Lord and
learn his ways. Too much time must not be
spent in toiling to clothe the body. We will
have to get rid of our traditions, and step
forth, when called upon, and do our duty; for
the Lord will help those who help themselves;
although persecution may come heavily upon
us, yet she did not think the Saints would ever
be driven again; but the Saints must  be united,
all would be called to account for the deeds
done in the body. Advised all to attend to

			[Column 2]
their meetings, and their minds would not be-
come darkened. Prayed God to bless and en-
able all to do right.
	Counselor Maria Rich said she was happy to
meet with her sisters, and bear her testimony.
We enjoy great privileges now to what we did
thirty or forty years ago. We have the Pro-
phets and Apostles of God to instruct us, yet
do we realize these blessings? Trusted all
would prove faithful to the end.
	Prest. Budge was pleased with the good in-
structions the sisters had given, and for the
peaceful spirit that had been in attendance.
It was just as necessary for the sisters to be in-
structed as the brethren; for there was not much
pleasure in associating with those who are un-
able to converse on topics of vital importance
to both parties. Those who stay away from
their meetings miss a great deal of good in-
structions, and it shows they are not as much
interested in the things of God as they should
be. Sisters as well as  brethren, should not
sustain those whom they know are their ene-
mies—those who would destroy their husbands,
fathers and sons, and sever every tie of kindred.
Wished the sisters to use an influence with
their husbands, as counselors in these matters.
We are too careless in the training of our
children; for we do not do our duty towards
them. We should get them around us in the
evening and talk to them of the things that
pertain to their good. We should do this in
their early days; remember the words of Solo-
mon: “Train up a child in the way it should go
and when it is old it will not depart from it.”
	Singing; Benediction by Elder J. U. Stucki.
2 P. M. Singing; prayer by Bro. Collings;
singing.
	President Lindsay said she would answer
a few questions which had often been asked in
regard to these two days’ meetings. The Presi-
dency of the Stake had advised us to get up
these district meetings, that we might hear from
the different sisters, for they could instruct us
in the things of God.
	Sister Nancy Pugmire said she was pleased
to meet with the sisters, was proud of those
who held positions in this Stake of Zion. Al-
ways felt like going on, and help to build up
the Kingdom of God. Wished to do all the
good she could and speak words of kindness to
all; if she saw any one in want, was always
taught to aid them, and help those who were
placed over her. Was interested in the young
ladies of Zion and was proud to associate with
the young ladies of this stake. Prayed the
Lord to bless all the sisters and help them to do
their duty at all times.
	Sister Alice Rich had noted the want of
confidence in our daily life. We should strive
at all times to live our religion and to be hum-
ble and prayerful. Happy is the home where
confidence is not broken. We should live up-
rightly and honestly and do our duty. The
Lord has promised to fight our battles if we
will keep his commandments, and if there are
more bills passed in Congress they can do us no
harm.
	Sister Horne regretted not being able to
meet with the young ladies sepearately. Our
daughters have sat under the voice of the Pro-
phets of God, and have been instructed in
things of great importance. Do not fear our
enemies; but fear God and keep the laws He
has given unto us. The things of this world
are nothing compared with the riches of
eternity. Mothers teach your children good
manners and politeness to all with whom they
may associate. If you teach them such good
things when they are young, you make an im-
pression upon them which is not easily erased.
Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy.
The Lord will not hold us guiltless if we allow
our children to break the Sabbath day. Let.
us set the example and then our children will
walk in our footsteps. Deal firmly with them,

			[Column 3]
but not hardly; avoid all whipping and fault
finding, and then they will honor us. This is
a mission that devolves upon the mothers, and
it is no light matter to be a mother. Our
minds are somewhat similar to our bodies, they
need food—spiritual food, that will enable us
to overcome all the little trials of our every
day life. Related an instance, illustrative of
the fact that after we commit a bad deed,
although we may sorely regret the occurence of
the same, yet we would not be able to remove
all recollections of having done such a thing.
The sisters should get a knowledge for them-
selves, and search their hearts and see if they
are serving God. If we are united the Lord
will help us, and we need not fear our enemies.
	Sister Collings: We are all the children of
God, and have the grand privilege of living in
these valleys of the mountains, for the express
purpose of preparing ourselves for an exalta-
tion in the kingdom of God. We should shun
the evil and do that which is good. The Lord
will strengthen us if we trust in him.  Never
neglect our prayers or the evil one will have
power over us. We are our own agents; we
can do right or wrong. The Lord is not pleased
with evil doers any more than we are when our
children do wrong. Let us be careful of the
example we set our children. If we labor in
righteousness in our Father’s kingdom we will
receive our reward. Let us overcome all our
weaknesses, and do all we can to help build up
the Kingdom of God.
	Prest. Lindsay was delighted with the good
instructions given, and trusted they would be
remembered by all.
	Singing, Benediction by Elder H. Margetts.
Sunday, 10 A. M. Singing; prayer by Bp. R.
Price; singing; Sacrament administered.
	Sister M. I. Horne showed the necessity of en-
joying the Holy Spirit of God while addressing
the Saints; although she had nothing new to ad-
vance to the people, yet, as Paul says, it is nec-
essary to have our minds constantly stirred up
in remembrance of the Gospel of Christ. Al-
luded to the action of Congress concerning
our people, and exhorted all not to swerve an
inch from the path of duty; although persecu-
tion might wage strongly against us.
	In administering to the sick among the
Saints, it is necessary that we not only rebuke
the powers of darkness, but command it never
to return to the house again; related an inci-
dent in connection with the principle. Spoke
upon the power of Satan in trying our integ-
rity, as in the case of Job. Satan is also
waging war with the Almighty, but if we keep
his laws Satan will be overcome, and Zion will
rise triumphant. We must be humble in order
to be saved in the presence of God; and to this
end we have to be proved in all things. The
speaker then recited instances from the Bible
where the Lord had tried his saints to see
whether they trusted in his promises. Alluded
to the necessity of good behavior among us.
It will be our good deeds that will exalt us in
the presence of God, and not our professions.
Showed how the Lord had prospered his people
in the wilderness, and how he had made it to
blossom as the rose. The speaker had been
tried, but, with the help of the Lord had over-
come many things. In plural marriage this
was noticeable; but she had believed in every
principle revealed by God, through Joseph
Smith. and consequently, when this revelation
was given, she felt it her duty to observe it.
Gave much advice to mothers in training up
their children, and in order to successfully
accomplish this, the sisters must have the spirit
of God to direct them in all their labors.
When the Lord blesses us, never forget to re-
cognize his hand. Exhorted all to faithful-
ness and to seek that wisdom which cometh
from God.
	Prest. Lindsay: It is necessary that we live
true Saints of God, be humble before him and


live our religion. If we do this, we need not
fear the puny arm of man. It is very evident.
by the prophecies that have been given, that
the end is drawing near, and therefore we will
be sorely tried, and it will take all our time to
stand valiant in the cause of Christ. Let us
then live so as to be worthy of a salvation in
the Kingdom of God.
	Singing; Benediction by Elder Walter Hoge.

