	DESERET," BY AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.

				Humbly, in a pensive mood,
				I said I'll seek the good,
		My life shall not be worthless, I shall aim
		To live that all may love and bless my name.
				A monument I'll build
		Within the hearts of men.  Each little child
		Shall say, "God bless his name and deeds;"
		I'll scatter sunshine, sow the seeds
		Of love, and truth and justice everywhere,
		I'll save the helpless ones from want and care.

				And never in my life
				Will I engage in strife:
		Unless it be to help the poor and weak;
		Then, word of sharp reproof I'll plainly speak,
				My wrongs I'll quick forgive,
		In peace with all mankin, content I'll live.
		Our Savior's life so good and pure
		Will imitate each day and hour.
		God's holy word shall ever be my guide,
		Should fortune smile or woeful ill betide.

				I shall not choose a text,
				And there on build a sect.
		My rule of faith--the Golden Rule shall be,
		"Unto all do, as they should do to me."
				At our dear Savior's birth
		The song the angels sang was, "Peace on earth,
		Good will to men."  My life shall be
		Responsive to the melody--
		That when my days are done, the glad refrain,
		At mention of my name, shall sound again.

				Life is worth the living,
				Good words worth the giving,
		If we but speak them for the joy they'll give,
		And not await an answer to receive,
				The little flower seeds
		Oft for months, o'er grown with poisonous weeds,
		Lie dead.  Then springing from the ground
		They bloom, and shed sweet fragrance 'round.
		One enjoys the planting--others the bloom,
		Tis joy to both--a blessing to each one.

				Plant not for self alone,
				Enjoy it as 'tis done,
		Shall be my daily rule.  Nor shall the weeds
		Of envy, lust or malice, choke the seeds
				I plant along life's way.
		But symphathetic tears, and love's bright ray
		Shall call them forth to brightly bloom,
		And fill all life with sweet perfume.
		I may be gone from life, but they will be
		A joy, an incense to my memory.			E.S.D.


