	WOMEN'S CONFERENCES: Sisters E. R. S.
Smith, Zina D. H. Young, E. S. Taylor and Dr.
E. B. Ferguson, attended the Ladies Conference
of Weber held in Ogden, on the 8, 9, and 10th of
this month Sisters E. R. S. Smith, Z. D. H.
Young, E. S. Taylor and Mattie Horne, Box
Elder Stake held in Brigham City 13, 14, and
15, and Sisters Phebe Woodruff and Presendia
Kimball, Tooele Stake held at Grantsville 10th,
and 11th of June.

	THE OLD Folks Excursion has been arranged
to take place on the 28 and 29 of June. It is
anticipated that this occasion will be something
extraordinary. The Committee who have
undertaken the arrangements, have shown them-
selves equal to any enterprise of this kind by


their efficiency in times past. It will be some-
thing new for many of the old people, to come
to Salt Lake City from all the surrounding
counties.

	DR. R. B. Pratt who has been in New York
ever since last October, studying in her profession
and as a specialist in the diseases of the eye, ear,
nose and throat, returned home on the 4th, inst.
She has been hard at work during her absence, in
the Infirmary under the best Professors in these
departments, and as she is well and fovorably
known in Utah as a physican, her many friends
and patrons will doubtless be glad to hear that
she has opened an office again, in the city,
next to J. M. Benedict's office.

	MMS. Elvira S. Barney who went East three
years ago to study Medicine and Surgery, has
completed her course and returned home, pre-
pared to enter upon the practice of her profession.
Mrs. Barney is widely known as an active and
able worker among the people of Utah, having
traveled considerably from place to place, in the
interests of the organizations, and will without
doubt soon build up a reputation as a practising
physician. Dr. Barney has opened no office as
yet, but may be found by those wishing her
service[-] at the residence of James P. Freeze, 11th
Ward.
	We have received a copy of "Questions and
Answers on the Life and Mission of the Prophet
Joseph Smith," published by the Deseret Sun-
day School Union. The book has been carefully
prepared for the use of the Sunday Schools. It
will place some important facts and data before
the children in a way that will make a lasting
impression upon their minds. The price is
only 10cts. and we hope to see it widely
circulated. Every child should have one of
the books. For sale at the Juvenile Instructor
Offices.


