A PSALM OF PRAISE.

	I stand in Zion, and rejoice in the God of
my salvation! My home, my cherished home
is among the Saints of God; therefore do I re-
joice. I sit beneath the voice of the Prophets
of God, and the light of inspiration is reflected
from them even into my heart and brain; there-
fore do I rejoice. Holy men are around us
who bear the Priesthood of the Holy One, and
magnify the same; and therefore do I rejoice.
Holy women also are around and about us,
that minister to their sisters in holy places;
that go about doing good; whose lives are a
"labor of love," nursing the sick, comforting
the afflicted, strengthening the weak, and in
all things fulfilling the law of love. Therefore
does my heart rejoice, l am made glad, and am
comforted for the trials I have under gone.
In a far distant land was the Gospel brought
to me, by a handmaid of the Lord. My father
and my mother were near me, and a host of
loving and beloved ones! My home was the
nest of love! The Gospel did not find me des-
titute, or desolate, or alone, but it found me
rich; my cup full to overflowing with good
things, with sweet and loving spirits around me.
Yes, I had all I desired!—Then I heard the
Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I had enough of
the Spirit of God to know it was truth. Then
also came the knowledge that I must sacrifice
on the altar of my God much that was so dear,
to me.
	I halted, I had "great possessions," and then
came a voice saying, "whoso loveth father or
mother more than me is not worthy of me; or
son or daughter more than me and my Gospel
is not worthy of me; one who is not ready to
forsake all if need be for my sake cannot be my
disciple." 'Twas the Spirit of my God that en-
abled me to pass through the fiery trials of that
grand epoch of my life—'twas often the bitter-
ness of death, and the tenderest fibres of my
soul were stretched to their utmost tension; but
I passed the severe ordeals, and now rejoice
that I stand as one among the Saints of Latter
days.
	Here are my brethren and my sisters, the
friends of my soul—and the children whom
God has given to me. He hath given me a
home in Zion, food and raiment, peace of mind,
love and unity to be round and about me, and
his Spirit He hath not taken from me. There-
fore my spirit rejoices all the day long, and
often in the silent watches of the night have
I risen to thank and bless Him for his good-
ness to me. He hath upheld me in every trial,
in severe sickness, and through faith and the
administration of his servants, and the ordin-
ances of his church I have been healed.
	When poverty and privation have been
around me, He has inspired friends to help me,
and supplies have come. I gave up my friends
in my native land, but never for a moment have
I been without one. I gave up my brother
and my sister, that I so loved; but I have found
brothers and sisters fond and faithful, in the
gathering place of the Saints; and my richly
appreciated parents that were among the most
valued of my treasures—their places even have
been in a measure supplied. I have realized

[Column 2]
the words of our Savior, that whatsoever we
sacrifice for his sake and the Gospel shall be
restored to us a hundred fold, even in this life.
Shall I not then exultingly break forth? I
stand in Zion, and rejoice in the God of my
salvation! Here I "raise my Ebenezer," for
truly "thus far hath the Lord helped me."
Therefore I will sing unto him a song of praise,
and proclaim his goodness in the courts of Zion.
He hath dealt with me as a loving father; He
hath corrected me, but not in his anger; He
hath afflicted me to purify and sanctify me.
	He has taken some that were dear to me as
my own soul, but they were his before He gave
them to me, and He will reserve them for me
till we meet again. "He hath done all things
well," and my soul is satisfied. How shall I shew
forth my gratitude, how make known the
thanksgivings of which my heart is full? I
will listen to the instructions of my teacher—
I will be obedient to the counsels of God's ser-
vants— I feel as a child in school, and will try
to learn the lessons set before me; I will try to
school myself, teaching my spirit to be passive
where action is not available. I have never
eaten the bread of idleness, now I will be "a
working bee in the hive of Deseret;" industry
becomes the Saints of Latter-days. I will labor
with my hands, even as a menial; I am content
to do it, I will also examine my mind, and if
there is good in it I will lay it out for the
benefit of others. That, that I have found
good, by my own experience, I will lay before
others, that they may also turn the same to
good account. I will do all the good I can in
the station into which God has seen fit to call me
I will try to bear affliction patiently. When I
am in happiness Thou my God knowest how
grateful I will be, for happiness is heaven to
me; and it is an emanation of the Spirit of
God. Where it exists the principle of evil
can have no power, for the soul is basking in
a fulness and is satisfied. Then let us cultivate
this atmsophere of heaven; it will enlarge our
hearts, expand our minds, increase our intel-
ligence, multiply our usefulness and teach us,
above all other things, to praise our God. Let
us help others to be happy, for by our works
shall we be judged; by the "deeds done in the
body," will the verdict be given, and in this
way only have I any right to say, or any hope
in saying, I stand in Zion, and rejoice in the
God of my salvation.
