UNION.

	What a glorious and eternal principle is
union! How much can be accomplished where
this exists, whether it is in a family, a church
or a nation! If existing in a nation, that na-
tion must, of necessity, become invincible; for
what foe could stand against a people of one
mind and with concerted action? surely that
kingdom, or that republic, would attain to
honor and glory above all other nations or
countries. When this spirit of union pervades
a family, how lovely it makes that family ap-
pear! No matter how rudely the cold winds
of adversity may blow, or what the outside in-
fluences may be, that surround them, in that
home there is peace; and in that family circle

[Column 2]
is a haven of rest. But how much of this
glorious principle of union is there upon
the earth at the present day? Do we find it
existing in the assemblies of the nations; in
the family circle, or in the churches? No; for
the seeds of desolation are in their midst;
and the nations are sick; and old dynasties
are tottering to their foundation; dissension,
disunion and strife prevail to an awful extent,
and confidence seems almost a thing of the
past, and there is a fearful looking for the
things that are coming upon the earth. Signs
in the heavens above, and in the earth below;
surely no thinking mind can doubt that we are
living in the latter days.
	But what are the Christian ministers doing?
Who profess to be followers of the meek and
lowly Jesus; of Him who had not where to lay
his head, and who said, if ye are my disciples,
love one another. Who wept over Jeruselem
because he would have gathered its inhabitants
and they would not. Are these same Chris-
tian ministers faithfully warning the people?
Are they using their influence to bring about
a better state of things? Are they seeking for
that which was lost, and striving to bind up
that which was broken? Alas! No; too many
of them use their influence to fan the flames of
dissent and strife, and even condescend to fab-
ricate falsehood in order to bring persecution
upon an innocent people, whose greatest fault
is that they are too united. Whatever may be
made the excuse for the crusade against the
Latter-day Saints, this is the real secret. It
is not in Utah that Rev. Mr. Newman should
look for children born without homes or paren-
tal care. No, rather let him seek them where
they will be found, in and around the place
honored by his most profound teachings;
where he advocates the bayonet and the knife
to be used against an innocent people, and
where he dares to pray to the God of mercy
that the glorious valleys that the people of
Utah have made beautiful, and the fields of
waving grain, which they have planted, should
be wrested from them and be given to their
oppressors. Let him search where they will be
found in the sewers and cisterns of our great
cities in the east; where civilization reigns trium-
phant. Let him petition Congress for special
legislation to abate the social evil; and its mem-
bers will find abundant use for all the time they
can spare, and the philanthropy they are capable
of exercising. Let him that is without sin
cast the first stone, and Utah will be left face
to solve her own problems, the parents to raise
their own children; and the foundling hos-
pital and the workhouse will be unnecessary
and unknown in their midst. Surely the men
who profess to be ministers of the Gospel of
peace must have mistaken their vocation, when
they sow the seeds of dissension and strife; and
instead of trying to convince those who see
differently, and whom they may imagine to be
in error, by the divine spirit of love, stir up
instead, a spirit of hate and war. Yes, they
must have mistaken their vocation and war
should have been their profession. "Ichabod
the glory is departed!" might be written on the
very walls of the places where they preside;
for after all the fuss that has been made about
the sad fate of the women and children of
Utah, they are beginning to admit that that
is not the true reason they seek to bring
trouble upon us. It is our union that must be
destroyed, and the question settled forever; just
as though it were a sin for a people to be united,
when the spirit of true religion is unity, peace
and love! And the great fathers and foun-
ders of our own country advocated it above
all other principles; they well knew the ad-
vantages to be derived from its practice, and
could foresee the evils that would be the result
of disunion. Then let us, as Latter-day Saints,
not suffer our own union to be broken up; and-
if trouble and sorrow invade our ranks, let it


have the effect of making us more united. Let
us not return evil for evil, but rather, by our
good works, prove that we seek to honor our
Father in heaven. Then the question will in-
deed be settled speedily, and in a different
way than that which our defamers anticipate.
Oh! what a vision opens to my mind, when
contemplating the blessings and glory that
awaits a united people; but my pen fails me,
and I veil my eyes in wonder, and view, as in
a mist, the rest that remains for the people of
God.
	When we are enabled, through faith, to
pierce the dark clouds that obscure the pres- 
ent, and fix our eyes on the glorious promises
given of the future destiny of the people who
are united in keeping the commandments of
God, the trials and labors of the present are
but light, notwithstanding they sometimes
seem greater than we can bear. "For at
evening time it shall be light. And they shall
all see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring
again Zion."
