PLURAL MARRIAGE AND UNITY.

	Reading the printed report of the proceed
ings of a mass meeting which convened in the
Methodist Church in this city about the first
of May, I was forcibly impressed with an idea
advanced by one of the speakers, that was
entirely new to me. At least I had never looked
upon the subject in that light, although I had
thought I was, both in theory and practice,
thoroughly acquainted with the principle of
celestial marriage. The idea was this: Polyg-
amy (as the world terms our marriage relations)
forms ties more binding; causing greater unity
of our faith. I was surprised to learn they
would admit this to be a fact. I had never be-
fore taken this view of the matter and
thought at first none but the evil one ever
had; but upon reflection, changed my mind.
I know plurality of wives to be a self-sacrific-
ing principle, yet the motive is a good one; it
being to regenerate and improve society in
order to bring the sons and daughters of Adam
back to their first primeval state, which is cer-
tainly most necessary before the coming of
our Savior.
	But you will say, no woman but a Saint
could practise such self denial. How true! and
there must be more than one, there must be
two or more to accomplish the result deter-
mined by heaven, the plan revealed through
Joseph Smith the Prophet! And if they are
not true Saints indeed they will fail even then.
How many have stumbled and fallen upon
this rock. Many, very many. And why?
Because they depended too much upon their
own strength to support them and their own
wisdom to guide them. Many very intelligent
persons have erred, have gone astray and fallen
by the wayside, because they forgot to be
humble and to seek daily wisdom from the
fountain of light and intelligence. I assuredly
know a man who stands in that position needs
the wisdom of God to direct him that he may be
just to all and a wise steward. The adversary
of souls is ever on the alert to tempt both men
and women and destroy the peace and happiness
which unity promotes and strengthens.
	Woman, in order to be a wise counselor and


helpmate to her husband, should possess the
spirit of Christ, and thus be enabled to love
her neighbor as herself. Then she can and
will act upon noble principles. But she must
have a husband in whom she can have the
most perfect confidence. Otherwise there, is no
foundation for happiness. This is one of the
essential principles of “Mormonism” so called.
But the question is, will polygamy (plural
marriage) unite us more firmly together? If
so it must be a righteous principle; for the
Savior says, except ye are one, ye are not mine.
And now since we have taken his name we
are called the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. It is very important that we pos-
sess the spirit of our Savior, that we may not
fail in one point of the law He has given to
be observed. Did He not say to his apostles,
Math. chap. xxviii, ver. 19, 20th: “Go ye there-
fore and teach all nations, baptizing them in
the name of the Father and of the Son, and
of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe
all things whatsoever I have commanded you:
and, lo I am with you always even unto the end
of thd world?” Accordingly, to “come to Jesus,”
as our sectarian friends teach, is not all there is
to do, but to study his commands that wc may
develop the powers and the talents given unto
us by God our Father, and become like our
elder brother and be saviors, unto many.
Much may be said upon this subject, but I
think a hint to the wise is sufficient.
   For instance, in these days popular opinion
seems to be the standard by which right and
wrong are  measured out. This may do for
the world of mankind; but will it do for the
Saints, those who have taken the name of
Jesus and made covenants to keep the laws of
God? Shall we forget that our Father in
mercy sent his Son, who has given rules to be
observed in his Father's kingdom.  This is
called the higher law, and by keeping this
law we break none of the laws of man, be-
cause it was framed for the good of mankind
in general. Let us measure ourselves by this
law; and by so-doing we shall be wheat, while
the other is only chaff. But chaff is useful
while it adheres to the wheat, and might really
fancy itself to he wheat, because it partakes
of the same. But when loosened and thrown
off, it is only itself chaff, and liable to be
blown away by the wind. But the wheat has
weight.  It contains the germ. Even so with
mortality. Do not all possess a germ of the
Deity in their own bosom, which, if cultivated,
will bear good fruit, but if quenched by the
opinion of others it may shrink and float away
with the chaff? Let us thank an all-wise
Providence for every faculty, both mental and
physical, that we possess, and pray for the in-
telligence his holy Spirit imparts to make a
wise use of the same. Then when the rains
descend and the floods come we may find that
our feet are founded upon the rock, according
to the parable of the Savior of mankind.
	May 20th, 1882. 		M. E. KIMBALL.


