RICHMOND.

	Minutes of the third Anniversary of the
Primary Association of Richmond, held June
1st, 1882. President Mary Allsop presiding.
Singing, "Gather them into the Fold." Prayer
by Bishop Wm. L. Skidmore. Singing, "We
are the children of the Saints." The pro-
gramme for the afternoon was as follows:
	Isabella Thompson, a recitation, entitled
"Good Morning." Select reading, entitled
"How to make Sunshine," by Reuben Traveller.
Mary Thompson sang a song, entitled "Sweet
hour of Prayer," followed by a comic recitation
by Amos Merrill. Abba Burnham recited
"Dedication to Brigham Young." Anna Stod-
dard sang, "Joseph Smith's first prayer." Jo-
seph Webb recited, "How to succeed." Lizzie
Allsop recited, "Ourselves and our enemies."
Alice Brower recited, "Children do you love
each other!" Marinda Monson sang, "Our
Baby." Recitation by Lorin Merrill, entitled
"Grandma always did." Maggie Thopson
read an original essay. on "Brigham Young."
Hattie Skidmore recited, "Helping Paper and
Mamma." Hyrum Monson sang, "The Mormon
boy." Sina Funk recited, "I love to attend
the Primary." Lewis Merrill recited, "Louie's
Secret." Jane Hyer sang, "O, Birdie, I am
tired now." Emma Nibley recited, "To Brig-
ham Young." Charles Skidmore recited, "John
O'Nory." Sina Beck sang, "O, Boatman, row
me o'er the stream." Nellie Bullen recited,
"Jesus blessing little children." Nettie Lewis
sang, "You are false, but I'll forgive you."
Ella Shapard recited, "I'll do as Mother did."
Julia Olsen sang, "Tis meeting day." Millie

[Column 2]
Traveller recited "I'll be a little Mormon."
Sister Hannah Brower sang a song, entitled
"Lines to Brigham Young;" composed by her-
self. President Mary Allsop read an original
essay, entitled "A play with the children."
	Sister Jane E. Molen, President of the
Primary Associations of Cache Valley, gave
some very good advice. Her Counselor, Sister
Adeline Barber, also gave some good in-
structions. Bishop Wm. L. Skidmore, C. Hyer
and A. C. Brower each made a few remarks.
Sister Myra Merrill, President of the Relief
Society, and her Counselors met with us. A
good spirit prevailed.
	Singing, "In our lovely Deseret." Benedic-
tion by the children in concert.
	Annual report, beginning June 1st, 1881, and
ending June 1st, 1882: Number of names en-
rolled, one hundred and forty-seven. Average
attendance, seventy-five. Number of meetings
held, thirty-six. Financial report: Amount re-
maining in treasury from previous year, $5.20.
Received during the year, from the members,
$6.48. Total, $11.68. Disbursed, $4.45.
Amount in treasury, $7.23.
		MARY A. WEBB, Secretary.
		ELIZABETH MERRILL, Asst. Secretary.

