A CHARACTER.

	You have asked me, my sister, to write your
character, and I would be pleased to respond,
but I realize it is a complex one, and your
chequered life has left its indelible impress upon
you, unavoidably, and made some points unde-
finable; still there is much transparency in
your character, and to one you esteem and ap-
preciate, you are open and child-like.
	You have given me some outlines of your
former life, of the grandeur and the great ones,
even royalty itself, among whom you at times
mingled, yet these never brought you happi-
ness, but were a burden you were compelled to
endure. Your married life was not a happy
one; though you had beautiful children, but
you sighed for a congenial spirit, and had not
found it; so you passed mechanically, as it
were, through that stage of life, surrounded by
grandeur and exciting admiration, but happi-
ness was not mingled in that gilded cup. Time
rolled on in its noiseless tread, and you became
a widow; and with that comparative poverty
and a change of circumstances, and position al-
together different to any part of your former
life; but you were free, and that was an atmos-
phere in which you had never before moved;
and you sat down quietly to feel and realize
the influence it threw around you! Still you
yearned for a higher life, in which your spirit
could be clothed and fed. You were sick of
the world and all its hollowness, it had held a
gilded cup to your lips but the draught was
merely sweetened water; at this identical time
a Mormon Elder crossed your path, you heard
him with pleasure, you drew in your breath—
cauld he speak truth? It sounded too good to be
true; had you found the panacea for the sorrow
of your past life? All he said suited your case
so exactly; you heard, you listened, you meditated

[Column 2]
and you obeyed. Now indeed came the grand
epoch of your life! Your spirit bore witness to
you that it was Truth, you had embraced.
You laid aside your pre-conceived notions of
greatness, they had not filled your soul, but
rather left you starving, still there had been a
charm around you in your former life, which
you had never really realized till you knew
that it was gone forever! but you bravely
laid the past aside, and took up the new sphere
of life, with a determination to henceforth walk
therein. The principle of "gathering" you
heard, and accepted joyfully; you made one in
"the hand-cart company," and with the rest
drew your hand-cart across the plains; to reach
the home of the Saints; your hands that knew
nothing of labor, became familiar day by day
with toil of a most strange kind; but you ac-
complished that never-to-be-forgotten trial.
The first time I beheld you was on "the square"
where the emigrants camped, the evening of
your arrival in Salt Lake City, as you stood
beside your hand-cart! Noble woman! no time
can erase the picture you then presented to my
astonished eyes; you had dressed for the occasion,
and your appearance, even after that long, wear-
ing journey, was that of an empress, your fig-
ure being tall and commanding, and the con-
trast of your surroundings made your appear-
ance more remarkable. You, too, always
declared you should never forget me, and my
approach to you in that most unique situation.
We conversed, just as Latter-day Saints ever
converse; we seemed to have known each
other for years; from that moment we were
friends that "spoke too meaningly ,and meant too
well," ever to misunderstand each other, even
when there came a jar between us, and was good
for both of us, and quickly passed away.
	Now for an attempt at the "Character;" I
felt impelled to write a few preliminaries, as an
introduction, feeling the chain would be imper-
fect without these important links; I shall at-
tempt nothing elaborate or scientific, but simply
state my impressions and convictions.
	I had a type of your character presented to
my mind the first time I saw you; subsequent
intimacy has not materially altered it. Your
form indicates power, your action denotes the
same; your voice, and above all your eye, be-
speak power; you are naturally artistical, and
ought to have made a mark in the fine arts;—
your rooms, your garden, your dress, the ar-
rangement of your books, your pictures, and
your furniture all show the artist. The form
of your head externally conveys to my mind
less of the principle of power, and I rejoice to
see it, as it tells me it will modify the mighty
engine, and hold it in check, when necessary;
the head is that of a woman; and you may be
satisfied with it. The language of your eyes,
is at times remarkable, put them in prison
sometimes, "there let them learn obedience,"
learn to be silent when necessary, and not tell
out even in silent eloquence all that is in the se-
cret chambers of your mind; especially when
under excitement, and more especially before
those who do not know you. Women from
many causes; should learn to be their own
keepers, your mouth denotes purity, firmness
and much suffering; the nose inclines to the
masculine, the forehead somewhat low but the
to ut ensemble of the head is intellectual, and
ought to be, for the whole character is such;
your frame denotes gentle blood and a fine
nervous temperament; your hands, and the way
in which you use them, have a language in
them, and denote character. There seems to
me, to be the mixture of two natures in you,
consequently you have a double duty to per-
form in managing, ruling, and governing your-
self. I verily believe there is a large amount
of good material in you; I feel "that your
virtues are all your own, your faults those of
your education and country."
	And now ma chere, you have desired me to

[Column 3]
write freely to you, and I will do so, as I am
led; you have entered upon an entirely new
life, study to apply the words of the wise man.
"Know thyself," cultivate and nourish the
good and noble qualities, rebuke and reject the
evil. Look beyond your now circumscribed
circle, recall your noble progenitors, your
Father! see him waiting watching in the spirit
world, the movements of his Josephine, his
highly favored child! he exults over you, for
he knows, if you remain faithful, you will
stand as queen of your tribe and nation; and
this can only be gained by faithfulness—by
toil and trial, and endurance. You are cap-
able to attain all this—the material is in you,
brook not a defeat! Walk softly, walk cauti-
ously, tread every petty passion beneath your
feet let nothing have power to hold you back;
take life as you find it,and try to make the best
of it. Our probation here is often one of trials;
but the less we dwell upon them the lighter
they will appear. If we recall our childhood,
our school days our early married life, we shall
remember we had all we then knew how to
bear; now we smile at them, and wonder that
we could be so tried by such trifles; we have
moved up in the scale of progression, our know-
ledge and wisdom have increased since those
early days, and we have out-grown all those
childish trials, as we out-grew our baby-clothes,
in the same way shall we hereafter look back
upon those trials of to-day that so perplex us,
and appear so insurmountable. Experience is
always giving us glimpses of the Godhead with-
in us, and which we ever possessed but we
knew it not! The mighty Oak, the giant of
the forest, with all its branches, knotted trunks,
and leaves were folded up in the little acorn!
ponder on these things and go on your way re-
joicing.

"Droop not, but nobly struggle still,
	For others look to thee!
And they would cease to strive with ill,
	If thou shouldst conquered be!"

	Then let not present difficulties blind you to
future glory; we must bear the cross, before
we can wear the crown, as our Savior did be-
fore us, and when we have come up through
much tribulation, and received our robes of
righteousness, and are invited to sit down "at
the marriage supper of the Lamb," we shall
gaze upon the glory-decked countenances of all
the great and good of each dispensation, and
hear the hallelujahs, the soul-thrilling, heart-
cheering hosannas, of the countless thousands
who will there be assembled to crown Jesus
King of kings, and Lord of lords, and dwell
with him for ever.
	One who is ever they friend.
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City.


