MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

	Mrs. Horne's early married life was serene
and happy. The young couple were well-
mated and worked together harmoniously, the
wife performing the duties of a young farmer's
wife, just starting out in life, without consider-
ing it a burden; no doubt love lightened labor,
for she had not been accustomed to milking,
and the various duties of a farm-house, but she
sought with a good will to make her home a

[Column 2]
pleasant one to her husband and to work for
their mutual interest.
	Only about one month of their wedded life
had passed, when they heard a rumor that a
man professing to be sent of God to preach to
the people, would hold a meeting about a mile
distant. Mr. and Mrs. Horne decided to at-
tend this meeting, and there they first heard
the sound of the everlasting Gospel, its sacred
truths proclaimed by Elder Orson Pratt; they
were pleased with his sermon, but little knew
what would follow, how the whole course of
their lives would be changed by receiving this
great light. Another meeting was appointed
at which Elder Orson Pratt stated that his
brother, Elder Parley P. Pratt, would preach
as business called him away. Mrs. Horne in-
vited her father and he consented to go; when
the time came he not only fulfilled his promise
to attend, but took all his family with him.
Mrs. Horne was greatly impressed, and being
conversant with the Bible could well appre-
ciate the arguments Elder Pratt used. He told
them that an angel had appeared to Joseph
Smith and restored the Gospel in its fulness.
Mrs. Horne's father was delighted with the
glad tidings and immediately left the Method-
ist Church and attended the Mormon meetings
altogether, and, in short, himself and family
were all baptized. It created quite a commo-
tion among the Methodists, and every argu-
ment possible was used by the ministers and
class-leaders to dissuade him and other mem-
bers of the family from accepting "the delusion."
Mrs Horne was baptized in July, 1836, by
Elder Orson Hyde, and ever afterwards her
house was a home for the Elders and a place
where meetings were held.
	Mrs. Horne's first children were twins, a girl
and a boy; the latter only lived a few hours.
We mention this as an instance, which will be
referred to again in connection with others of
a similar nature.
	In the latter part of the Summer of 1837, she
first saw the Prophet Joseph, also Sidney Rig-
don and Thomas B. Marsh. Mrs. Horne pos-
sesses a great degree of reverence for that which
is sacred, and when she beheld the Prophet she
rejoiced as women of old did,thanking God for
the privilege and that the desire of her girlish
heart, to associate with prophets and apostles,
was gratified. She says, "On shaking hands
with Joseph Smith I received the Holy Spirit
in such great abundance that I felt it thrill my
whole system from the crown of my head to the
soles of my feet. I had never beheld so lovely
a countenance; nobility and goodness were in
every feature. My husband and I accom-
panied the brethren in their visits to the diff-
erent branches of the Church then existing
in Canada."
	The testimony Mrs. Horne has given here
concerning her feelings when she first met
Joseph Smith, has been corroborated by hun-
dreds of others, who have solemnly declared
that they never had such peculiar emotions
when meeting any other person, as they ex-
perienced on meeting the Prophet and shaking
hands with him. This may be looked upon as
a testimony that he was called of God and
endowed with superior power.
	The Saints who had gathered to Kirtland
were about moving to Missouri; and in the
Spring of 1838, in the month of March, while
the weather was cold and disagreeable, Mr.
and Mrs. Horne bade farewell to their home,
where they had expected to remain permanent-

[Column 3]
ly, and with a small company of Saints started
for the land of Zion, the gathering place for
the people of God. The roads were very bad
at this season of the year and consequently the
young husband walked most of the time, Mrs.
Horne driving the team herself. Their faith
never wavered, but increased day by day.
	At Hunstville, about one hundred miles from
Far West, the little company of emigrants
stopped for a few months. At this place there
were several families of the Saints. Mrs.
Horne was here introduced to the parents of
the Prophet, Father and Mother Smith.
Father Smith was the Patriarch of the Church,
and under his hands Mrs. Horne received a
patriarchal blessing, which gave her much
comfort, although he told her that she would
have to pass through distressing scenes of
affliction, sickness, sorrow and tribulation; but
gave her a promise that the Lord would bring
her safely through; which she says has been
verily fulfilled. At this place, Huntsville, on
the 24th of July, shortly after having com-
pleted this long journey in a wagon, and
driving her own team much of the way, Mrs.
Horne had a son born to her. Her circum-
stances and surroundings were very different to
what she had anticipated in bearing a family,
but her courage was equal to the emergency,
her heart was brave and her faith in God was
strong and enduring.

To be Continued.


