INTELLIGENCE.

	In a revelation to Joseph Smith in the Doc-
trine and Covenants we find the following: "Seek
ye earnestly the best gifts, always remembering
for what they are given; for, verily I say unto
you, they are given for the benefit of those who
love me, and keep my commandments;" then
follows several paragraphs explaining what
those gifts are. And, "He that receiveth of
God, let him account it of God, and let him
rejoice that he is accounted of God worthy to
receive;" and we are told to "live by every
word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of
God," and to "search these commandments for
they are true and faithful."
	"The glory of God is intelligence, or, in
other words, light and truth." Doc. and Cov.
page 246, First European Edition. "And if
your eye be single to my glory, your whole
bodies shall be filled with light, and there
shall be no darkness in you, and that body
which is filled with light comprehendeth all
things." page 100; again he says "cast
away your idle thoughts and your excess of
laughter far from you." A description of
Jesus Christ says he was never known to laugh.
And it is certain that the more we think idle


[Column 1]
thoughts the less light and truth there is in us,
this certainly reflects much discredit on writers
and readers of fictitious literature; who give so
much of their time and thoughts to nonsense.
	Joseph Smith says: that whatever principles
of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it
will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a
person gains more knowledge and intelligence in
this life, through his diligence and obedience,
than another, he will have so much the advan-
tage in the world to come.
	God further says, "Seek not for riches but for
wisdom, and behold the mysteries of God shall
be unfolded unto you and then shall you be
made rich. Behold he that hath eternal life is
rich." Riches here evidently mean supera-
bundance or wealth, not necessary to comfort
or happiness; for in other commandments God
signifies his will that we should have neces-
saries, and something to spare, for our tithing
was to be of our "surplus properties," and it is
not right that any man should be in bondage
one to another. Doc. and Cov. It is wisdom
from the foregoing that our exaltation behind
the vail (when preceded by a pure life here) is
in accordance with our intelligence, hence those
who die ignorant, though equal in purity, will
enjoy a far less degree of happiness there; for
as intelligence is the glory of God it follows
that the more we possess the more our glory will
assimilate to his, and we cannot any way take
with us earthly riches, hence our knowledge
and wisdom is all we can lay claim to from
this side, so it is all our wealth when we reach
that. Though we have no contempt for money,
for a portion is absolutely necessary to the
acquirement of knowledge, of which a good
share is obtained by reading the "best books;"
"seek learning even by study and also by faith,"
Doc. and Cov., and "you shall live by every
word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of
God." Doc. and Cov. page 85.
	The highest ambition of every saint is to be-
come like Jesus Christ, as we are to be joint
heirs with him.
	From the foregoing we learn that intelligence
is glory, and is essential to future happiness;
then the question arises, which is the best pos-
sible way to gain it? Intelligence is spirit, em-
bodied, mind, skill, understanding or knowledge,
which implies truth ascertained, information,
learning.
	Desire spiritual gifts, 1st Cor., xiv chap.
"Every good gift and every perfect gift is from
above, and cometh down from the Father of
lights, with whom is no variableness, neither
shadow of turning." James 1st chap., 17th
verse; and they are instituted for "the perfect-
ing of the saints" Eph. 4th chap. for "where
there are no visions the people perish" and "the
manifestation of the Spirit is given to every
man to profit withal." For to one is given by
the Spirit the word of wisdom; to another the
word of knowledge by the same Spirit. 1st Cor,
12th chap.
	The Lord told Joseph Smith that to those
that feared Him and served Him in truth and
righteousness to the end, to them He would re-
veal all mysteries, the wonders of eternity;
they should know "their wisdom shall be great
and their understanding reach to heaven	*	*
for by my spirit will I enlighten them" and
make known unto them "things which eye has
not seen, nor ear heard, nor yet entered into
the heart of man."
	Jesus Christ says: "I am the spirit of truth,"
and truth is knowledge of things as they are,
and as they were, and as they are to come. Doc.
and Cov. page 245. Jesus Christ received not
a fulness at first, but continued from grace to
grace until he received a fulness. "The spirit
of truth is of God." Prest. Brigham Young
said, "Every member has the right of receiving
revelation for himself, both male and fe-
male. It is the very life of the church of the
living God in all ages of the world."

[Column 2]
	Apostle George Q. Cannon says, "There is an
influence born with every person that to a cer-
tain extent is a spirit of revelation," so as we
all possess more or less of this faculty and by
cultivation could no doubt develop it to a con-
siderable degree, then our minds would be im-
pressed in regard to passing events and enlight-
ened on all subjects we undertook to study or
think about.
	Brother Calkin, in Mill. Star, says: "The Di-
vine Will has ordained that the self-exertion
of his creatures, rightly directed, shall be the
proper source of blessings and the means to
bring about their redemption, salvation and
eternal exaltation."
	Though study and practice are indispensable,
any one whose mind has been inspired to un-
derstand things, to write by inspiration or im-
pression, or produce anything mechanical by
the same power will readily perceive the beauty
of the thing and the ease with which it is accom-
plished, so far beyond anything we could do by
our own common unaided ability, that were we
assisted by this power and benefited by the ex-
perience of those who have gone before; through
the "ministry of angels" our means of acquir-
ing knowledge would be infinitely greater; and
through continuing from "grace to grace" we
could not fail to receive a fulness in far less
time than by our present comparatively slow
process, to say nothing of the indescribable
happiness felt by the close proximity of the
Holy Spirit, or the knowledge that our
minds were enlightened and our future bliss
enhanced by continued revelation from Him
that "doeth all things well."
