MEMORIAL.

To the Honorable the Senate and House of Represen-
tatives of the United States, in Congress assembled:

	Gentlemen—The citizens of the United States
in the Territory of Utah, through their dele-
gates in Convention, respectfully present this
Memorial, asking for their admission into the
Federal Union as a free and sovereign State, on
the same footing as the other States, under the

[Column 2]
name and title of the State of Utah; and here-
with submit the Constitution which they have
adopted.
	When the people who opened this vast region
to civilization, and rendered possible its settle-
ment by the advanced races, first planted their
feet upon the virgin soil of these valleys, it was
part of the domain of the Republic of Mexico,
five hundred of their stalwart men were in the
field aiding in the war with that Power, and
they occupied this part of the country as loyal
citizens of the United States, and unfurling its
flag to the mountain breeze, proceeded to
organize a provisional government, preparatory
to becoming a part of the Federal Union. When
by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, this portion
of Mexico was ceded to the United States, they
sought at once, by proper means, to secure the
rights and privileges of statehood. California,
the settlement of which by citizens of the United
States, was largely due to the people of this
Territory, made application at the same time as
they for admission into the Union, and was
successful. To Utah was granted a territorial
form of government. For thirty-two years,
the citizens of this Territory have been kept out
of the Union, and under the disadvantages of a
system which in many respects, is foreign to the
principles of democratic republicanism. They
now, for the fourth time, approach your Honor-
able Body, with their respectful petition for that
republican form of government which Congress
is required by the Constitution to guarantee to
every State in the Union.
	And they submit that Utah has outgrown the
conditions, if they ever existed, which justified
the establishment of that imperfect political
system which has been so long continued. Her
population numbers at least 150,000. Her agri-
cultural, stockraising, manufacturing, mineral
and other resources and industries, are of such
magnitude that she is abundantly able to bear
the burdens and meet the expenses involved in
independent statehood. Her cities towns and
villages exhibit all the marks of thrift, prosperity
and order that indicate capacities for self-govern-
ment. Unaided by any extraneous assistance,
schools for the education of her children flourish
in every settlement within her borders. The
local laws protect life and property with more
than common safety, and extend all possible
liberty to persons of every party, creed and race,
without distinction. Railroads and telegraph
lines connect her people with each other and
with all parts of this great nation, and they are
familiar with the common interests and public
questions which blend the various States in pol-
itical unity. There is nothing to prevent Utah
from taking an active part in the Federal com-
pact but those barriers of prejudice which have
been built up chiefly through misrepresentation
aided by unfamiliarity with the facts.
	We further submit that the exercise of absolute
and unlimited power over the great body of
citizens inhabiting this Territory, which is
claimed by Congress as a right, is anti-republi-
can in theory, and most oppressive in practice.
We have no voice in the election of the national
legislators who, without understanding our con-
dition, occasionally make laws to govern us, or
of those authorities who appoint officials to con-
duct our affairs. The Governor, placed over us
without our consent, has the power to render
void all the acts of the legislature elected by the
people, by simply withholding his signature
thereto. This absolute veto power is added to
the supreme authority of Congress to abolish or
make null all or any of our local laws. The
essential principles of American republicanism,
as enumerated in the Declaration of Indepen-
dence, are thus grossly violated, and the people
of Utah are kept in a condition of vassalage alike


unworthy of a free government, irksome to those
who are compelled to endure it, and subversive
of the inallenable rights of man.
	We direct the attention of your honorable body
to the pledged word of the nation, in the treaty
before mentioned, agreeing that the people resid-
ing in this region at the time of its ratification, 
should be "incorporated into the Union of the 
United States, and be admitted at the proper
time to the enjoyment of all the rights of citizens
of the United States according to the principles
of the Constitution, and meanwhile should be
protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty
and property, and secured in the free exercise of
their religion without restriction." Abstaining
from any inquiry as to whether  the proper time
has not now arrived when her people should be
admitted to the full rights and privileges of
citizens of the United States, the same conditions
being required as of other communities seeking
the status of independent statehood?
	We present with confidence the Constitution
framed by this Convention, and ratified by the
people of this Territory at the polls, the election
being held May 22d, 1882, when 27,814 ballots
were cast in its favor, and but 498 against it-
We think it will be conceded that it provides
for the State of Utah a republican form of govern-
ment; and we urge that this being guaranteed
beyond dispute, the constitutional requirement
is complied with, and nothing stands lawfully
in the way forbidding Congress to authorize the
admission of Utah into the Union.
	In conclusion, we respectfully suggest that by
granting what we believe to be our rights under
the Constitution and the treaty made with
Mexico, benefits will accrue not only to the
new State but to the nation at large, in the set-
tlement of questions that have frequently pro-
duced great and unprofitable agitation: in the ad-
dition of one more vigorous and promising com-
monwealth to the Federal Union; and in the
security which will be the consequence to every
interest in this important section of the country 
which is calculated to add to the wealth, power
and prosperity of the glorious Republic in which
we desire to become incorporated.
	And as in duty bound your memorialists will 
ever pray. 
	Adopted in Convention at Salt Lake City Utah
Territory, on the seventh day of June A D 1882, 
by unanimous vote, and ordered to be signed by
the President and Secretary.


