		BY ONE WHO KNOWS.

	An article headed "The origin of Mor-
monism," read by Mrs. Dr. Horace Eaton, of
Palmyra, N. Y., who  says she has resided in
that place for the last thirty years, speaks not
from what she knows, but from what she has
heard against the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
family. she says, "They went out from us,
but they were not of us. The deceived were
elsewhere."
	Now if Mrs. Dr. Horace Eaton  was ever
familiar with the Holy Scriptures she must
have forgotten this passage, "A man is not
without honor except in his own country," and
the Lord said, "I will take one from a house
and two from a city," etc.
	Having been born in the State of New York
myself, and connected with the Church of Lat-
ter-day Saints from the beginning, and acquain-
ted with the mother of the Prophet from my
childhood up, I am able to testify, from actual
knowledge, (which statement ought to be re-
lied on), that this woman speaks falsely against
the Prophet Joseph Smith and his parents, and
hundreds are still living who are able to testify
that they were among the noblest and most
choice speciments of God's handiwork; and the
inventors of such wicked, malicious and bare-
faced falsehoods, what can be said of them?
"that they know not what they do!" We could
with quite as much truth and propriety say
that the mother of the late President Garfield,
because she was poor, was ignorant and dis-
honest, moved in the lowest walks of life; and
that "an evil spirit had inspired both mother
and son;" it would be as true in this case as the
other; to work as they had to for years, endur-
ing many hardships and privations; and that he
was taught to restrain the instincts of child-
hood, impressing this idea upon the boy that


[Column 1]
he must be diligent in study, to obtain a suit-
able education to prepare him for what he was
destined to become: President of the United
States. This would be no more absurd than
the contemptible stuff read by Mrs. Eaton of
Palmyra to blast the character of the honored
dead, supposing by this dishonest means, that
she can break up and destroy "Mormonism."
	We know from the history of many of the
greatest men and women, that those of the high-
est intellectual order whose minds soared above
the common cares and drudgeries of life, and
their ideas and aims were the most pure, noble
and exalted, with the dreamers and visionary
minded who were most richly endowed with
spiritual gifts, have, we may say, with scarcely
an exception, been looked down upon, and
made the butt of ridicule for the more worth-
less, ignorant and faithless portion to pick upon,
who invariably set them down as silly, super-
stitious fools, or lazy and good-for-nothing
drones.
	When Noah, in obedience to the command of
the Almighty, told the people that He would
send a flood to drown the world, they only
ridiculed and called him a fool; and Joseph,
who was a dreamer, was hated by his brethren,
who sold him into Egypt, where they were
afterwards humbled before him. He was des-
tined to become the greatest and a temporal
savior to his father's house.
	Columbus, who discovered America, was de-
nounced as a fool or a most demented being.
These are only a few cases, and we could men-
tion many who have made the greatest discov-
eries and were similarly treated, winning no
praises nor recompense in this life, but though
they lived and died in obscurity, and many of
them in the most wretched poverty, their works
have followed them. I am not only thankful,
but proud to be able to say that my parents
were among the few who first received the gos-
pel, as taught by Joseph Smith, the Prophet of
latter-days; and that I, with them. was gath-
ered out from among the "rank weeds" of
"Western New York," because we were not of
them; and that, with a few other choice tendrils,
we were transplanted upon the rich and fertile
soil of the "Far West;" where under a more
congenial clime, though we were moved about
from place to place because of wicked usurpers,
who scattered and killed many; and sought to
destroy us all both root and branch; but hav-
ing been watched over and continually pruned,
weeded and watered from the pure fountain,
we, with thousands more who have been gath-
ered from the east and west, from the north and
south and grafted in, have thriven and grown
together and taken root in these once barren
but now fruitful vales of the Rocky Moun-
tains, and, in spite of the anxious prayers
and opposing influences of the enemy, have
borne much fruit, and the sight of the numer-
ous little branches which are putting forth and
spreading over the land has so enraged the ad-
versary, that He is going about like a "roaring
lion seeking whom he may devour;" and though
his agents are filled with jealousy, envy and
bitter hatred towards one another, they are
willing to unite their forces to see if they can
possibly put a stop to this increase, break up
the union, tear down and destroy the "master's
vineyard;" but they must learn that "The race
is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong."
	As J. M. Coyner has so generously offered
the privilege to some of our teachers of correct-
ing him if he writes aught that they know is
untrue, I, though not professing to be a teacher,
can detect the falsehoods, and understand the
spirit with which his articles, and many others
were written and published. Some of them
are the most vile, wicked and barefaced, which
have been resurrected to blast the characters of
the leaders and prominent men of this Church;
firing the public mind with tales of insurrec-
tion, murder and crimes which were never com-

[Column 2]
mitted. The Latter-day Saints have never
ustified the wicked deeds of ungodly men. It
is contrary to the spirit of our religion and
the constant teachings of Joseph Smith, Brig-
ham Young, John Taylor and the Apostles.
"Vengeance is mine and I will repay," saith the
Lord, is ever the teaching of the Elders.
	The author of an article headed "A Beauti-
ful Picture," drawn from what he learned con-
cerning a certain polygamist family in the
southern part of Utah, while he was stopping
(as he says) "long enough to dine and change
horses," is quite in keeping with other
statements which the Christian ministers
have gathered up and published, to prej-
udice the outside world against the favored
people of God. This story of an attorny is on
a par with some other extravagancies which
malicious hack-drivers have imposed upon
the credulity of tourists who make only flying
visits to Utah.
	They do it out of pure mischief, to see how
much the stranger can be made to swallow.
Many a one has gone away with the idea that
the whole block east of the Temple was owned
by President Brigham Young, and they were
told that his wives were numbered by the
chimneys in the houses; when their informers
well knew that most of them were the private
property of other men; including Kimball and
Whitney, who own nearly half of said block
two of the houses belonging to my husband.
They will afterwards amuse themselves by re-
lating their experience, laughing and chuck-
ling over the fun they have enjoyed at the ex-
pense of others. In connection with these
falsehoods they have published (though unin-
tentionally) some excellent truths, which, in-
stead of doing us harm, will do an immense
deal of good.
	The Lord has said that all things shall
work together for the good of those who fear
him and keep his commandments; and those
who are exposing "Mormonism" are only doing
what the Elders of this Church have been
laboring for many years to accomplish: send-
ing the Gospel truths where the presence of a
"Mormon" would not be allowed, opening the
eyes of the honest of all nations, and at the
same time showing themselves up in their
true light. One of the writers says, "The
nature of the organization of the Mormon
Church tends to hold the people together;
it is one of the best organized systems in the
world." True, nor can we separate our tem-
poral and spiritual affairs, for with all our
daily cares and vocations of life is mingled the
spirit of this one great and all important object
—the advancement and eternal progress and
exaltation of poor fallen man, and we know
that this is why the enemy of all righteous-
ness is so busily engaged in stirring up the
hearts of men who allow themselves to be
blinded by prejudice and priestcraft instead of
being led by the light and truth of the pure
Gospel of the humble Nazarene, who was also
accused of every crime imaginable and who
said, "Blessed are ye when all men revile you,"
etc. "I have chosen you out of the world,
therefore the world hates you, if you were of
the world the world, would love its own."
	Among what the writer says is the most bar-
barous of our doctrines, is the belief that God
possesses a body, parts and passions and that
we claim a right to revelation and prophecies;
to the healing of the sick, by the laying on of
hands and the guidance of the holy spirit, all
of which is contained in the Gospel of Christ.
He says: "It would be hard to find more self-
conceit and self-righteousness than among the
Mormon people." It would be impossible, I
think, to find more ignorance of the holy
scriptures, from which we derive our faith and
doctrines, than he betrays in every sentence
uttered against what is called "Mormonism."
Satan, with all his cunning, so betrays his folly

[Column 3]
and short sightedness in every move that his
agents have made to expose Mormonism, that
it is really pitiful.
	The spirit could not be perfect without the
body, else why was our Savior resurrected?
The Latter-day Saints believe in both the Old
and New Testament (though they try to prove
to the contrary) and we accept of all that is
good, no matter from what source it comes
Revelation is not confined to our leaders, but
it is the privilege of every person—yes, even "a
young 'Mormon' Elder," who cannot put to-
gether three sentences in a grammatical way—
may receive revelation and have a better under-
standing of religious truths generally, than
thousands who have had sixty or even a hun-
dred years of careful study without the assist-
ance of the Holy Spirit; for study would not re-
veal the scriptures. It is the privilege of every
Saint to know the will of God concerning them-
selves, and no one who lives up to the light of
the Gospel of Christ need to grope long in dark-
ness, or be dependent on the testimony of an-
other; the Lord has said, "Cursed is he who
maketh flesh his arm." "If any of you lack
wisdom, ask of God, who giveth to all freely
and upbraideth not." These words show plain-
ly that this is the privilege of every one high
or low, bond or free.
			To be Continued.


