DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I have taken the EXPONENT, ever since it has
been published, and in my small way have tried
to sustain it and extend its circulation; but have
not felt capable of writing for it, having never
had the advantage of a single day's schooling in
my life, except about three months at Sunday
School, about forty-five years ago at Philadel-
phia; besides, my mission has seemed pretty
much confined to home, having a farming
family of a husband and six sons to see after.
	But now that so many of the law makers of
this great nation, urged on by the popular clamor
of ignorance and bigotry as Pilate was, have com-
bined together, and carefully prepared and en-
dowed with life and sent on the wing a destroy-
ing locust, which they seem to believe cannot
fail to fearfully harass the Saints of God, stop the
progress of his work on the  earth, and fill our
cities with wickedness and misery the same as
their cities are, I feel as though I must speak a


little of my mind. It is quite probable that this
thing they have so carefully begotten and nour-
ished into life and action, will some day attain
such proportions as to astonish its fathers and
give them good reason to tremble before its face.
They have made a national affair of persecut-
ing American citizens for  religion's sake; are we
going back to the dark days of Ancient Rome?
We will try and hope not indeed.
	What they have done brings to my mind a
little circumstance I know. A strange cat had
got under the house, the children were earnest
in their endeavors to get him out, but at last all
their plans failing, a dear little boy exclaimed in
his zeal, "Oh, if we only had a cannon we would
blow the house down, then we would get him
out."
	Now these law makers in their zeal to get the
Mormons out, forgot or ignored the fate of their
own house, and having a Cannon there they
blowed away and if they didn't blow their house
down, they seriously fractured the foundation,
so that the wise men can see that its ultimate
fall is to be feared; for now the trick is made and
any other party who happened to be in power can
make other tricks to accomplish their own pro-
jects.
	It is a shame and sorrow to the whole nation
if they only understood it, that any Senator
should stand up in the halls of Congress where
truth once prevailed, and speak such cruel false-
hoods as the Hon. Mr. Hazleton did, and bring
up for testimony against us the lies of these
three miserable judges whose business here
seemed to be to try to drive our people to do some
violent act so as to get an excuse to send an army
to destroy us, and falling in this they went back
and howled like dissapointed wolves. No wonder
the Holy Book disappeared when such things
were countenanced in the halls of Congress, where
truth and wisdom should be found. Its doctrines
are denied and opposed there, and its staunchest
advocates and believers reviled and handed over
to persecution, of course it was only a mockery
for it to be there any longer. I take it as about
such an omen as when before the siege of Jer-
usalem the great gate of the Temple opened ap-
parently of itself, and a voice said, "Let us
depart."
	I can say that this unjust and cruel law will
have the effect to rouse the Saints to live their
religion, and call on the Lord more dilligently
than they have for some time; I fear that we,
some of us at least, were getting rather negligent,
but I for one feel quite roused. Shall my breth-
ren and sisters whom I know to be as good,
morally and every other way, as any men or
women that are living on the earth, be belied
and persecuted for obeying the comandments of
the God, of the ancient Prophets and Patriarchs,
and I be at  rest in Zion, and feel indifferent be-
cause my husband has never married any other
wife besides me? No; God forbid! Sisters let us
call on the Lord by night and by day, to protect
and preserve our brethren and sisters, and  that
He may give us strength equal to our day, that
we may pass true and honorably through all
trials our Heavenly Father sees fit for us to pass
through. God will truly hear us if we strive with our might to live faithful.
	I would advise every woman in this Church,
who is desirous for the spread of the truth, to
save all the papers in which is printed President
Taylor's discourse at the closing of the last Gen-
eral Conference, let not one copy be wasted, but
send them to your relations and friends, who
live in other places or even to strangers, they
may do much good; also any papers or pamph-
lets, or small light books which have in them
accusations of our enemies and our also and
truthful defences, also those that teach the prin-
ciples of the gospel.
	Let us be as much on the alert to vindicate
ourselves as certain officious, but mistaken
ladies, ignorant of the truth, have been to malign
us; they have exerted themselves to the utmost
to have women as virtuous as themselves, as
true wives, and as fond mothers, discarded by
their husbands, deprived of their homes, re-
garded as outcasts, and their little children,
whom the Father loved as much as He does their
own, cast forth as illegitimate without a father's
care. Would these kind ladies care if the poor
things died of starvation and hunger, as many
children do who are born out in the great civili-
zed world? How can they be so cruelly virtu-
ous, so dreadfully exercised over "Mormon" wo-
men, when they well know that every daughter
born to them has to run the risk of being con
taminated on account of the condition of the
world. There is many a lost, abandoned woman
in the land, who came from as honorable, as vir-
tuous, as respectable a family as any of these.
	*	*	*	*
	The monogamous system of marriage was born
of Pagan Rome, and nursed by Christian Rome.
It has deprived thousands of Columbia's fair
daughters of home and marriage, thousands
who sleep in untimely graves are the victims of
a system that countenances in man  the right to
destroy woman, and cast off her offspring, his
own flesh and blood. In many instances this
has led to the crimes of which we read in  the
large cities in the world. These things are too
dreadful to contemplate- these are the crying
evils of the nineteenth century- not plurality of
wives. These are the evils which need a power-
ful eradicator.
	I have been told by a woman who worked
three years as a nurse at the Hospital Ward's
Island, N.Y., that a person would be surprised to
see how many poor fatherless and almost moth-
erless babes are born in a day at the lying-in
ward; and that they nearly all die. Strange
isn't it? But I suppose they can't help it, the
babes I mean; she said their little coffins were
to be seen almost any day, ranged on the beach
waiting for the tide to take them away till the
sea shall give up its dead. This was over twenty
years ago; those who live near that place can
have the opportunity of knowing whether it is
so now, but I suppose it is worse, because there
are more people than there were then.
	If we had all these things it is probable, we
should not be accused of flying in the face of civil-
ization, for all civilized communities of any size, and
many civillized individuals have skeletons more
or less like this in their closets. If you don't be
lieve it, take the testimony of Mr. Talmage; he, I
believe, is as much against us as any ne, so of
course they will be willing to believe him. One
thing more, "all honor to the just and noble
minded Senators who boldly and bravely took
their stand in favor of our sacred and glorious
Constitution, and would not sanction the begin-
ning of its destruction. "The Constitution of our
country while it is honored and obeyed, is indeed
the safeguard of American liberty, regardless
of creed or color, and these honorable gentlemen
will live long enough to be glad they took the
stand they did, when they would not allow
themselves to be beaten into wrong by popula
clamor. We thank our Heavenly Father there
are some such men left yet.
			JEMIMA E. STOOKEY
	Clover Creek, Utah, May 10th, 1882.


