MRS. SCOTT.

	DEAR FRIEND—We take the liberty of
calling you friend because you are willing to
accord us the privilege of speaking for our-
selves.
	A great many years ago Prest. John Taylor
edited a paper in Washington, D. C., called The
Mormon; at the head of said paper were the
words "It is Better to Represent Ourselves
than to be Misrepresented by Others." There
is a great deal in this statement, and we as a
people can appreciate it. You speak in your
last letter about the injustice of reward and
punishment; and of your heart being hard and
unbelieving. It is a sweet consolation, in the
hour of trial, to approach our Heavenly Father
knowing that He will hear and answer our
prayers; this is how we Lattter-day Saints pass
through this world of trial. In regard to re-
ward and punishment, let me ask one question.
Can our Heavenly Father ask us to pass
through more than He did his only begotten
Son? Can we possibly descend lower than He
did, born in a manger; suffered the pangs of
hunger and want; was scoffed at and even spit
upon; and at last crucified between two thieves?
Can any of us pass through more than this?
And if we would share his glory, is it not just
that we should taste of the bitter cup that He
drank to the dregs? Again, if we would be as
gold seven times purified. we must bear with
patience that which our Heavenly Father sees
is for our good.
	While I am writing I may tell you that I
am a plural wife and have been for some
twenty-six years; would I change my position
for that of an only wife? I would not. In the
period named I have attended a very high
school; I have made intimate acquaintance with
my God. He has taught me many valuable
lessons, some of them may have been bitter,
but they are priceless. As a people we enjoy
solid peace and satisfaction, which the world
can never give nor take away. We fear no
outside element, but trust in the living God
who we know is at the helm.
	We have another consolation, we know that
our husbands are true to their marriage vows;
we know that they and our children are pure,
and that virtue is dearer to them than life.
And this we prize more than all the glittering
gold of the world.
	Hoping to hear from you again,
		Most respectfully,		M. L. M.


