THE CONSTITUTION.
The Constitution framed by the recent Terri-
torial Convention, for the proposed State of Utah,
has been issued in pamphlet form, and is now in
the hands of the people.  The election for the 
vote "yes or no,” on the Constitution, was held
in the several precincts in the various parts of
the Territory, on Monday, May 22nd. As far as
reports have been received, a heavy vote was
cast in its favor, and scarcely any voted "no.”
 This Constitution now under consideration,
and upon which the people have cast their votes,
is in the opinion of thoso well acquainted with
the Constitutions of other States, and such
like matters, as good if not better, than
that of any other State in in the Union.
Certainly it is more just, as far as ex-
tending rights to women. At no other time in
the history of the United States, have women
been admitted as delegates in a convention to
frame a State constitution. There were three
lady delegates elected in Salt Lake County, to
the Territorial Convention, and they were as-
signed to places on committee work; and these
performed their respective parts in the labor
expected of delegates, faithfully and creditably.
    This is a new departure and one in which
Utah has taken the lead—and it ought not to
remain unnoticed by those who are working for
woman’s advancement, and the recognition of
her political rights.  The papers that advocate
woman suffrage might notice this fact in favor
of Utah, with the greatest propriety. It seems
strange that they have not already done so, as
the leaders of both the National and American
Suffrage Associations, make every matter of this
kind count in summing up the work of equal
rights regardless of sex. The Constitution of
the State of Utah not only allows woman equal
privileges with man, as regards rights of pro-
perty, right to vote, but also makes woman
eligible to all offices of emolument or trust, ex-
cept the executive and judiciary and sitting upon
juries. This leaves open to woman the Legisla-
ture all educational offices and such other offi-
ces as do not rank in those named above.
 The next step to be taken by the Convention
when they meet on the 6th of June, will be to
hear the report of the Election Committee, adopt
a memorial to Congress and elect delegates to go
to Washington and present the Constitution to
the Chief Executive of the nation, the Senate
and House of Representatives, for the action of
Congress. The people of this Territory are
justly entitled to a hearing upon this subject.
 The numerial strength of the Territory ought
to secure its admission as a State. Added to
this it might be said the people who came here
and endured the hardships and privations inci-
dent to pioneer life, who made the roads and
bridges and opened up great commercial interests
here, are deserving of recognition to all the
rights and privileges that pertain to statehood
in a free Republic. The people have now per-


formed their part, in calling a convention, and
have prepared a Constitution, which has been
ratified according to order, and the whole matter
will soon be in the hands of men who are em-
powered to act in the interest of the whole peo-
ple of these United States.


[Column 1]
