THE MODERN HERO.

	Reading Carlyle's "Hero as Divinity," start-
ed the train of thought about the modern hero.
All nations, all people have a portion of di-
vinity within them. Children of the Heaven-
ly Father; how can it be otherwise? No matter
how dense the darkness that enshrouds them,
they seek for something to worship, to look up
to, to aid them to ward off evil, and to bring
them good. A higher power than theirs is
sought blindly, but devoutly. The traditions
of the ancient fathers came down through cen-
turies, mingled with obscurity; and that prob-
ably constituted the Gods of the ancient Norse-
men. The evil one was abroad, falsehood was
mingled with truth. Anything to lead the
minds of the children of men from the truth;
anything to satisfy the inherent longing for a
higher life, save the eternal truths of heaven.
The Priesthood was driven from the earth.
Idolatry and false forms of religion held sway.
Darkness swept over the earth. Popery and
and Paganism rose, advanced and partially de-

[Column 2]
clined. From Popery sprang her many
daughters, the Protestant Churches.
	There was no Divine Hero upon the earth.
None sent from the heavens to proclaim the
everlasting truth. No ambassador from on
high, for heretofore every ambassador, even to
the Son of God, had been destroyed, translated
or driven to the uttermost parts of the earth.
	The time had come for a new era. Blest,
ordained and set apart for his high mission,
Joseph was sent unto the earth. As a babe he
began his earthly life; angels watched over
their precious charge. While still a boy the
Lord and his Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to
him and unfolded the truth from heaven.
"Hear ye him" said the Father, and the Son
proclaimed the truth. Then beamed light up-
on the darkness of the world—light that was
destined to dispel it—to revolutionize the
theories of man-made religion; to bring life
again, eternal life, to the hungry children of
the Father, dwelling in shadows and fanciful
forms.
	This is a hero to be proud of! Who with-
stood persecution; who manfully maintained the
right against the wrong; who alone, in his
youth, unaided by mortal man, maintained his
integrity. The hosts of heaven watched, aye,
and guarded him too. Sorely was he tested,
but he shone forth as pure gold; he began a
new era of light and life, to mankind, the
brethren and the sisters, children of the same
Father he had lived with before he came to
this world, before he descended from the courts
of heaven.
	This hero came, Joseph was his name. His
life testified of his heroism; a struggle continu-
ally with the powers of darkness, that tried to
overwhelm him but could not. Through trial
and persecution Joseph led the chosen people
gathered from many nations. What is life to
him but sorrow and gladness. Sorrow when
wickedness triumphed, and gladness for the
power given in the last days over the evil one.
	After a life of self-denial, of good wishes, of
miracles, of hope, of troubles innumerable from
the hands of wicked men; of privations, of
imprisonment, falsly accused, this great hero,
this wonderful man, this son of the Father was
martyred; laid down his life, and sealed his
testimony with his blood, which has never
been effaced from the prison floor. It is a
strong testimony of the innocence of the mar-
tyred modern heroes, Joseph Smith and his
brother Hyrum.
