MY DEAR MRS. SCOTT:

	I feel like chatting a little while with you
to-day. I am much pleased with, and in-
terested in your letters, because they breathe
the spirit of an honest heart. I for one truly
appreciate the character you accord to us, of
being truthful, pure-minded, etc., and am sure
I speak for my sisters when I say we do not
wish you to keep silent, or cease to investigate
or ventilate the principles of "Mormonism,"
for we consider as you do, that it is your bus-
iness. We are not ashamed of our religion,
which is the Gospel of Christ, "the power of
God unto salvation unto all who believe." We
think with you that woman should think, and
act for herself as well as her brother man; and
it must bring serious even fearful contempla-
tion of the future, to every woman, who is a
mother, when she reflects upon the crime that
exists, and not only exists, but is increasing in
the land. But we do not feel as those who are
not of our faith, because we know if our child-
ren are faithful to the laws laid down in this
Church for the guidance of the Saints, they
will be saved from the sins and corruptions of
the outside world, that they will be preserved
pure and spotless, living lives of honor and
peace. I wish you could believe as we do, for
you would certainly be happier. There is no
doubt in my mind but the "Mormons" are the
happiest beings who inhabit this globe.
	I can assure you that thousands of our wo-
men are just as full of faith as we; and should

[Column 2]
they write, would testify of their happiness and
contentment, declaring that they would not
exchange the sweet peace they enjoy, through
obedience to the laws of this Church, for all the
riches of the Rothchilds; no! not for the
queenly dominions pertaining to this earth;
for we are living for eternity as well as time.
and expect, if faithful, to reign with the just
when the earth is purified, but we are also re-
ceiving our reward as we go along, from day to
day, even that reward that follows well-doing.
My acquaintances, who are many, have full
confidence in God, and his power to deliver his
people, consequently, do not fear what men are
trying to do, to destroy us, and would go to
the "stake" unflinchingly, rather than re-
nounce one single principle of our religion.
We realize that we are inheriting the legacy
Jesus left us, and that "they who live godly in
Christ Jesus, shall suffer persecution." The
raging of the ungodly and corrupt against us,
is still another link in the mighty chain of
evidences we already possessed that we are
surely engaged in the work of God.
	It does not affect us to see the wicked pros-
per, as it does you, for we know that their reign
is short; that God will come out of his hid-
ing place and vex the wicked with a sore
vexation. There will great calamities over
take the people, the day will soon come that
safety will not be found, except among the
Latter-day Saints; that despised people, whom
this nation is now seeking to destroy and scat-
ter abroad upon the face of the land. You
speak of the love we seem to bear each other,
which we do verily feel. Do you believe in
Jesus? If so I would like to cite your attention
to one of his sayings, to prove why we possess
this great love for one another. "By this ye
may know that ye have passed from death
unto life, because ye love the brethren," which
we believe includes sisters also. We do not
see the miseries of life that you see, nor do. we
hear of them among our own people; but only
as the sound reaches us, from the out-
side world. We know that hundreds, yes
thousands, of Gentile wives could tell tales
of abuse, heart burnings and jealousies, more
cruel than was ever known by the great
majority of Mormon women, for the simple rea-
son, we have perfect confidence in the virtues
of our husbands, and the man who would abuse
a wife would be dealt with by those having
authority in the Church. My soul too, abhors
the doctrine of future rewards and punish-
ments, as preached by many of the sectarian
ministers. We do not believe in the hell they
preach, neither do we believe that there will
be children damned, nor that a murderer who
has had a priest pray over him on the gal-
lows will go to Abraham's bosom. We believe
the Scriptures which say that "no murderer hath
eternal life." We are encouraged in working
the works of righteousness by the knowledge
that we will be rewarded for the same, and
vice versa, that all will be judged by the deeds
done in the body, whether good or evil. Is not
this reasonable doctrine? You express a desire
for the faith possessed by the Mormon women!
There is a way by which you can gain that
faith.
	The Apostle James says, "if any lack wisdom
let him ask of God, who giveth to all men lib-
erally and upbraideth not, and it shall be given
him."
	If you would read our works faithfully, with
a prayerful heart, calling upon God earnestly
to know of the doctrine whether it be of good
or not. He will give you an assurance of your-
self, of the truth of "Mormonsim," so called,
and such knowledge would inspire you with
that mighty faith which we enjoy. This is the
grand secret of our faith. I will now say good
day, trusting to hear from you again soon.
			Yours truly,
