THE TRUE CHURCH.

	Why are all the churches in Christendom
offended with us? Is it because a young man
only fourteen years of age who, being anxious
to know which church possessed the greater
portion of the Spirit of the Lord, and the true
principles of religion, asked in faith believing
he could know for himself? believing also the
word of the Apostle James, chap. iv, ver. 5:
"He that lacketh wisdom let him ask of God!"
Accordingly received an answer, to his astonish-
ment, saying there were none on the earth or-
ganized as Jesus left it. None according to
this pattern. But the time had come when
there must be such a church and such a people.
This being the fact, I would ask who is to
blame?  Is any one to blame? We were all
doing the best we could before this message ar-
rived. And what now can be done only to in-
vestigate the truth and see if it will better com-
pare with Christ’s teachings when he was here
upon the earth. Did not the Savior come at
a certain period of time, to accomplish a work
which was ordained to be from before the
foundation of the world, to rescue us from the
fall and bring to pass the resurrection? Yet
his brethren, the Jews, rejected him, as St.
Paul says, blindness in part happened to Israel
until the fulness of the Gentiles has come in.
This time having arrived, is it strange that
this young man should be led to make so fer-
vent a prayer to God to know the right way. 
Is it not probable he was fore-ordained to do
this great work, this strange work which we
that have embraced it once looked upon as 
false? I well remember exclaiming false pro-
phet, when I first heard of the work; because
the Savior said there should be such in the
last days. But how unwise, to judge a people
unheard.
	Well what did I hear? It was this: that the
Lord, knowing our capacities, gave us the writ-
ten word, or Bible, just as he meant it, and
said his word was so plain that the wayfaring
man, though a fool, need not err therein.
This looked reasonable and fatherly. Why
should He do otherwise? The "Mormon" Elder
then took the bible in its plainness, and how in-
teresting. It indeed seemed like a well of
water springing up into everlasting life. Be-
cause he taught that Christ’s sermon on the
Mount must be observed to the very letter.
Nothing must be neglected, if we would be
prepared for the coming of the Savior. Was
there danger in this kind of teaching? No; far
more on the other side of the question, with the
idea that you have only to come to Jesus and
you are saved. Most assuredly. But how
must we come? The Savior says to observe all
things whatsoever I have commanded them

[Column 2]
And Oh! the plan of redemption with the
different changes that earth must pass through
before it can be the abode of its Creator! The
study is great and glorious, even as shown to
Daniel in vision down to the end of time. Also
to John, the Revelator, the same vision, only
by different figures, when the word came that
time shall be no longer! How I wish the
clergy of the different sects could see and un-
derstand this great and glorious work. Then
their minds would be filled with that light and
intelligence which would take all envy and
hatred and malice from their bosoms. Light and
joy and peace would take possession and fill the
place of the former; and they would find the
words of the Savior verified, when he told the
woman of Samaria saying, the water He would
give, would be a well of water springing up
unto everlasting life. With this water of life
or this light and intelligence, what great at-
tainments are made in arts and sciences, by
those who are not full of gall and bitterness;
those who give their attention to the principles
of study, and advancement for the benefit of
mankind. But should we become so proud
of our attainments that we cannot look beyond
our own sphere of action? Should we not re-
member that we are, although different, yet
members of one body or, in other words, all
children of one Father? Is it wise to be proud?
Rather let us remember the Lord resists the
proud, but gives grace to the humble. But again
I ask, why do the clergy rage against the truth?
I will answer—all do not. As soon as they
learn its simple and plain facts, many have
thrown away prejudice and especially if they
were devoted to the teaching of Christ. Many,
very many have done this. Even President
Taylor, who with another divine was praying
to understand some passage of scripture when
Elder Parley Pratt came in with the message
of salvation. Read also Spencer’s letters, you
will see true faith in God. The author was a
Baptist minister, and had a large congregation,
and a good salary. He gave up all for the truth,
when he heard it, and he never repented of it,
but rejoiced in it to the day of his death.
	Can it be a reality that the whole of Chris-
tendom are determined to stamp us out of
existence? Dare they, in the pride of their
hearts, attempt this? Have they no fear of
God before their eyes? I think it would be
well for them to learn of our faith and doc-
trine before they begin, lest our exit should
be to our advantage, and their efforts to their
sorrow. The measure they mete to others will
most assuredly be meted out to them again.
The word of the Lord has spoken it through
the Savior of the world.
