TO MRS. E. B. WELLS:

The Editor, the Preacher and the Poet, 
	Must heroes be indeed;
Must dare to help the right must aim to know it;
	Must make the truth their creed.

Must speak their mind, must many wrongs decry;
	Must weigh their words most true, 
Must hit the mark, must hoist the banners high,
	Of truth and justice too.

On freedom's heights—must kindle beacon fires—
	That all the light may see, 
Must thrill humanity, with such desires,
	That all may nobler be.

Ne'er, must they lower truth's colors in dismay
	Or wear a mean disguise
Ne'er must they shun the thickest of the fray, 
	For there, their mission lies.

Princes, and presidents, and kings endeavor—
	To guide the helm of State;
The editors, the bards, the preachers ever—
	Bear up the social weight.

And whosoe'er defends an outcast people—
	Makes all the world his feos;
And more than human strength he needs, to equal
	The power he must oppose.

But every ordeal hath its compensation,
	The cross must win the crown;
And all are working out their own salvation, 
	Who help the trampled down.

The soul who would be greater than his brother, 
	Servant of all must be;
Must e'en rejoice, to benefit another—
	By his ability.

And happy must they be, or man or woman—
	Blest with the mind, the might—
The love! to lift up souls from cares so human—
	To help, whate'er is right.

Such is your lot; to cheer and comfort others;
	Nor should you have to ask—
The staunch support, of sisters or of brothers—
	To aid your needful task.

Is it not fit, that those who toll to bless us—
	Who, like the working bee—
For others gather up, the sweets most precious,
	Should have our sympath?

Many a mortal, bowed with care to sadness—
	Unequal oft would prove—
To useful effort, but for thanks and gladness—
	Received from friends they love.

And this is our desire, to cheer your spirit;
	To yield you honor too;
To shew appreciation unto merit, 
	For this 'tis right to do.

To help us all, has been your true endeavor,
	Sacred you've held your trust,
And hence, we hope you will be strengthen'd ever,
	To aid the cause most just. 

And may you still, "the Mighty One" rely on,
	To guide and crown your aim, 
And still may many honest hearts in Zion—
	Have cause to bless your name.

