Make Baby Some Rattle Shoes Nell Folkman D° you pride yourself on being creative and enjoy making your own baby gifts? Or does your own three or four-months-old baby need something new to amuse him? Then, here is something for baby that will bring oh's from the new mother and coos of delight from baby. As soon as the little one discovers he has feet, he will delight in these brightly colored shoes with the added attraction of a rattle on each toe. These rattles will amuse him long before he can hold a rattle in his hand. For some creative fun for you, hours of play for baby, or an inexpensive gift, here's all you'll need: A piece of brightly colored felt (10" x 12" is large enough for one pair). 2 small plastic ball rattles—or you can use a dumbbell rattle. 2 skeins of embroidery floss. Y% yard of ribbon—for laces. 1 large darning needle for making holes. Small piece of heavy string. Pliers and sandpaper. Materials ready? Then follow this simple outline and in a couple of hours the shoes will be ready. A. Cut a paper pattern from diagram shown below, using 1-inch squares. ALN lA LES Ee 'let \ifl |) EL | \ | x | BP, B. Cut out the felt pieces: 1. Two each of soles and tongues z. Four side pieces C. Saddle stitch the shoe together using six-ply embroidery floss, as follows: 1. Right sides out, stitch down back seam. 2. Starting at the back, stitch sole to upper. If necessary, trim one side slightly so that the side pieces overlap only slightly in front. 3. Sew front seam. Page 752 MAKE BABY SOME RATTLE SHOES. 753 oo 7=..0 Sew in tongue piece, gathering side pieces slightly to fit. Match x's. D. Prepare the rattle as follows: 1. Using hacksaw or pliers, remove all the handles from the rattles, 2. File or sand (using coarse sandpaper) until smooth. 3. Using a large darning needle, make small holes in the rattle on each side of where the handle used to be. 4. Insert 2 strands of heavy string—long enough to sew the rattle onto the shoe.. Sew the rattle to the toe of the shoc, being sure to fasten securely, 5 E. Punch a small hole on each side of the front and insert ribbon long enough to tie a bow. MAKE HOLES HERE