YOUR SERVICES TO GOD AND MAN Hannah Deady Tomsik Do you watch by the bed of the dying, Do you close the sad eyes of the dead, Do you still the first cry of the newborn babe And cuddle it close in bed? Are you always where you are needed most? Do your bit whenever you can? Then you are living and you are giving Your services to God and man. Do you comfort the ones who are left to mourn— Do you point to a brighter day? Do you tenderly robe for its last long sleep The loved and silent clay? Then, though your sins be scarlet, You are needed in God's great plan— For you are living and you are giving Your service to God and man. EDITORIAL  ' Motto—Charity Never Fatleth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Business Manager Lo - -: - - Janette A. Hype Assistant Manager -. -_ oa =: -Amy Brown LyMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah  Vol. IX AUGUST, 1922 No. 8 RESIGNATION OF MRS. SUSA YOUNG GATES Dear Sisters:?We regret to announce, that at the regular weekly meeting of the General Board of the Relief Society, held June 28, 1922, at Relief Society headquarters, in the Bishop's Building, the resignation of our esteemed sister, Susa Young Gates, as a member of the General Board and Editor of the Relief Society Magazine, was presented and unanimously accepted. No doubt this resignation will be as great a surprise to our numerous readers, and all members of the Relief Society, as it was to the presidency and members of the General Board. We wish to assure our readers that the Magazine will continue to express similar religious and spiritual sentiments for the advancement of women as have heretofore always characterized its pages. We bespeak for the Magazine the same loyal support in the future that you have given in the past. We deeply appreciate the efficient and faithful work Sister Gates has accomplished, and our prayers and good wishes go with her in whatever field of activity she may decide to enter, or wherever she may be. Carissa S. WILLIAMS Jennie B. KnicuHt Louise Y. RoBIson Relief Society Presidency.  FAREWELL TO THE READERS OF "THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE" To the Latter-day Saint, there is no such word as farewell or finish, for to us life and effort, expression and development, go right on ever and forever. We may part from friends for a time, through removal or through other natural changes and readjustments, but you and I, friends, we do not say good-bye at any time, for we go right on developing, achieving, no matter if our life-barques put in at other ports or sail different seas for a time. We are all engaged in the same great battle of life, and though our leaders may find it wise to place us here, or to engage our services in another part of the field, if we love God, and desire greatly to bring to pass righteousness, we shall be assured that there is always a place, a labor that only we can do. Weare all very much needed, you and I, for there is much to do and so few who know or who really care about the salvation of souls compared to the great hosts of earth-dwellers. The pages of this Magazine will now lack the name and symbol of one who has stood for earnest desire, for strenuous labor, but I would have you know in this parting hour that the one whose name and symbol follows after will need just as much patience, as much loyalty, as has this other whose barque is now charted for another, little different course. Will you love her, and help her, and be loyal to her? For she will be worthy, and she will need all that help from you. Then, too, be assured that there is only the sweet sorrrow of parting which is still so much a part of human limitations in this last word of mine to you, dear friends, without one shade of regret for I have done wisely in this separation and have taken counsel. Our President Clarissa S. Williams agrees entirely with this parting of ours and I bear you my testimony that she is the one chosen of God through his servant for her high and exalted position. So that we are all trying in our human ways to think first and only of the great work of the Relief Society which was organized through revelation from God to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and not of ourselves as individuals nor of our personal reactions to this or that phase of the work. It is so that I have always written, it is so that you have always read, and it is so now that I greet you and leave you, dear friends all, for a season., Susa Youn Gates.