Notes from the Field
CIRCLEVILLE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY India Johnson, President Garfield Stake (Circleville Ward)
The above interesting picture is that of the Circleville Ward Relief Society. Four of the oldest members of the Relief Society are here represented, in addition to the younger women. The picture is quite typical of the groups of women all over the Church who have responded so generously to the request made for the organizations to plant a memorial tree this year.
Beaver Stake.
On March 29, 1931, the Beaver stake Relief Society was reorganized. After ten years of faithful service, the following stake executive officers were released. Mrs. Susan J. Murdock, president; Mrs. Annie E. Joseph, first counselor; Mrs. S. Jennie Tanner, second counselor; Mrs. Alice G. White, secretary-treasurer; Mrs. Martha A. Hoopes assistant secretary-treasurer. Under the leadership of these able sisters, the Beaver stake has endeavored always to keep in step with the march of progress of the Relief Society, and has been an enthusiastic supporter of the program of work as it has been suggested by the General Board. The very best wishes of the people of Beaver and of the General Board of Relief Society, go with these sisters in their retirement from office. The newly appointed officers are: Mrs. Kate Jensen, president; Mrs. Lacy Nowers, first counselor; Mrs. Lucille Murdock, second counselor; Mrs. Lovina Pearce, secretary-treasurer. To the new officers the general organization extends congratulations, and best wishes for a prosperous and happy administration of the Relief Society in the Beaver stake.
Alberta Stake.
The international scope of Relief Society is well demonstrated in the activities of the organization. From all parts of the United States, we have interesting accounts of the tree planting of our sisters in memory of the bicentennial anniversary of the birth of George
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Washington. From the sisters of the North, we have the following interesting report, showing that the spirit of Relief Society carries over the same in one land as in another. The above picture shows the group particularly concerned in the planting of the trees in Cardston, Alberta, Canada. The following account is given in a newspaper clipping: "Last Monday afternoon at 4:30 P. M., the members of the Alberta Stake Relief Society, and the ward presidents of the two Cardston wards, and a number of citizens, met at the Soldiers' Monument at the Court House in Cardston, for the purpose of planting some trees. Five elm trees were chosen, and planted in honor of the Fathers of the Confederation. Mrs. Dora Jacobs explained the purpose of these trees being planted in loving memory of those thirty-three splendid men whom we all revere as the Fathers of the Confederation. Miss Jennie Hinman conducted a chorus of twenty school children, who sang "O Canada," and then
461
gave a salute to the flag. Mr. Rulon E. Hicken, principal of the High School, delivered the address, and told of the obstacles which confronted the founding of Canada, and of the spirit of fortitude and courage with which difficulties had been overcome. He went on to pay tribute to the women's organizations, in playing a leading part in honoring these worthy men, among whom were Sir John A. McDonald, George Brown, George Cartier, and many others. Mr. Hicken briefly reviewed some of the Governmental Acts which had been passed in an attempt to solve the governing of Canada, viz., the Act of Union, and a concerted effort to bring about the Confederation of 1867. Five trees were planted, three on the east side and two on the north side of the monument erected by the loyal citizens of Cardston to the memory of their departed soldiers. The tree next north from the monument was given by the Hartley Relief Society, the second by the Kimball. The first tree on the east was donated by the stake board of Relief Society, the second tree by the Cardston Second Ward Relief Society, the third by the First Ward Relief Society, showing that all were interested in the movement. President Wood of the Alberta stake, expressed his appreciation for the efforts of the Relief Society women in planting the trees near to the monument of the soldier boys. He thought it a fitting manner of showing their appreciation for this monument, and the boys who had given their lives for their country. The concluding remarks of Mr. Hicken were as follows: 'Then let these trees, planted by loving and patriotic hands, and nurtured by this virgin soil, the sunshine and dews of heaven, grow to be fitting monuments to the wisdom and foresight of those Pioneer Canadian States-
462
men, whose memory we love to honor." This is quite typical of the spirit of the organization, that everywhere wishes to play its part in the march onward and upward.
San Luis Stake.
The accompanying photograph was taken at a very pleasant social held by the stake board of Relief Society of the San Luis stake. This happy event was held at the home of Mrs. Mary E. Poulson, who had served faithfully for several years as a member of the board, and had only recently been released because of poor health. A program was rendered, and tributes were paid to Sister Poulson, calling attention, with words of love and good feeling, to the wonderful service she had rendered, and also expressing regret at her release. These were accompanied with the hope that she would have a speedy return to health. Dainty refreshments were served, and a very delightful time was enjoyed.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The San Luis stake is very proud to have Sister Cornelia Mortensen, an aged pioneer and Relief Society worker in the stake. She has served as both a ward and stake president. As a board the efforts of the women have been to put into effect the program of Relief Society work as far as it is possible. On the second Wednesday of each month the board holds its meeting, going into the homes of the various members, where the business of the organization for the coming month, and preparation for the same, may be made. The informal social hour after each meeting has added greatly to the enjoyment of the stake board, and has been a means of drawing them nearer together and forming a stronger bond of acquaintanceship and sympathy one with another.
Montpelier Stake.
During the months of January and February, there have been four conventions held. The stake
Front row, left to right: Coun. Jennie Weimer, St. Pres. Martha Haskell, Cornelia Mortensen. Second row: Coun. Ella O. Rasmussen, Bernice Rogers, Nonnie DePriest, Ella Jackson, Jennie DePriest, Organist. Lauretta Peterson.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
was divided into the four districts, three districts comprising three wards each, and the remaining one four wards. The general outline of the program followed was: beginning at 11 o'clock, lessons were given by competent class leaders. These were followed by musical selections, and timely instructions by members of the Relief Society stake board. There were also readings suitable to the occasion. Following this luncheon was served and the afternoon was devoted to games and social entertainment. The members of the stake board presented the one-act play, called "The Bank Account." At these conventions the stake presidency, and the Bishops and their counselors, added greatly to the enjoyable and instructive occasion. The total attendance at these four conventions was 396. They have resulted in a marked increase in at-
463
tendance at regular Relief Society meetings in all the wards. As a conclusion the members of the stake board, with their partners and Stake Presidency, and guests enjoyed the evening in games and entertainment at the home of a board member.
Union Stake.
The 17th of March, 1931, was the occasion for special programs in the Relief Societies of the Union stake. Every ward depicted either by pageant or play, the first organization of Relief Society in Nauvoo. Songs suitable for the event were rendered. In some of the wards plays chosen from the literature course of the year were presented. Pageants and scenes from the Book of Mormon were given, and a five minute debate suggested by the social service work—"Resolved, that a woman of 45 cannot change her habits." This was a source of much entertainment. One ward gave a dance in the evening, at which the membership of the entire ward was in attendance.
Mary E. Poulson, Amelia Poulson, Leatha Sowards, chorister. The lady at the back Mrs. Van Tradenburg, brought members in her car from Manassa.
The above picture is taken of the First Ward of LaGrande, in the Union stake, and it is a presentation of the first organization.
Notes to the Field
A Wonderful Magazine Subscription Campaign
The officers of the 20th ward, Ensign Stake, have demonstrated what determination and efficient work can do in increasing Magazine subscriptions. Increasing their list from 17 to 101 subscriptions is a record to be proud of. We asked the president to tell us how they did it. The following article will give inspiration to other wards to materially increase their lists——Editor.
By Vivian McConkie
To give a word picture of the accomplishments of a loyal and faithful group of Relief Society sisters in a particular activity is not easy and I respond timidly with the doubtful hope that my brief resume will answer the query of the editor. In our March union meeting Sister Castleton, Ensign Stake Relief Society President, suggested a drive for magazine subscriptions. At our ward society conference a few days previous the stake officers reported that the 20th ward was by far the lowest in magazine subscriptions in the Stake, both in numbers and in percentage. Ours was a newly officered society and we were further handicapped in that our magazine agent, recently appointed, was out of the city. For that reason the ward executives assumed personal charge. We made a careful survey of our membership, learned who the present subscribers were, checked with the records of the general office, and in all things acquainted ourselves with the details of the work. We determined who could and those who probably could not subscribe. At the outset we sought to radiate the feeling that whatever we really want to do,—that which we set our hearts upon, we can do. The executives were enthused and that enthusiasm carried over to the members. A percentage scale of mental attitudes was written on a black board and left in our room. It was as follows.
100 I did. 90 I will. 80 I can. 70 I think I can. 60 I might. 50 I think I might. 40 I wish I could. 30 What is it? 20 I don't know. 10 I can't. O I won't.
We adopted the slogan, "A magazine for every member," and devoted a two minute period of each meeting to creating interest and organization pride, at which meetings our progress was fully reported. We saw the necessity of a magazine fund and so cast our eyes about to see how it might be secured. A local laundry was discovered which, for advertising purposes, offered our organization 25 cents for each member who would inspect its plant. Our members approved of this opportunity and _ the little scheme netted us $15.00. Each woman who visited the laundry was given 25 cents credit toward a magazine subscription, or if already a subscriber she could designate to whom the credit should go. Many who could not go on this inspection trip voluntarily gave a like sum to the fund. The result was that an additional sum sufficient to off set the credit used from the laundry NOTES TO THE FIELD fund was received, leaving at the disposal of the organization $15.00. This made it possible to put fifteen magazines in homes of members who for some reason, had not subscribed but who in, our opinion would appreciate it. Every woman in the 20th ward knew that an intensive magazine drive was on and our teachers were asked to encourage prospective subscribers. On work days selected articles which radiated human interest and touched the experiences of all, were read to the sisters while they sewed. Such fine support and enthusiasm was shown that certain women who felt themselves able to do so subscribed for others. Finally, but pursuant to our original plan, a member of the presidency personally contacted those who had not placed their subscriptions and secured a generous response. Our survey had revealed that only a few of the seventeen subscriptions of 1930 had been renewed so our start was practically from the bottom. There are at present 101 subscriptions in the ward, which is slightly less than 100 per cent of our members but practically every member has access to the magazine. We acknowledge with gratitude the loyalty and faithfulness of our whole membership, who by sane and loyal cooperation, without any hardship on any one, crowned our efforts with success, and the splendid magazine now published is ample compensation for our labors. TO OUR CLASS LEADERS CULTIVATE the art of teachcing. We should not have one ward this year where the class leader does all the work and the class members have things poured into them week after week. Occasionally lectures may be desirable, but to go to meeting and 465 have the so-called leader continually take up all the time, pouring out information, shows very poor work. Some teachers say they do not know how to draw people out. We assure them that the art can be cultivated, and they will thrill with joy when they get ithe backward {members expressing themselves. It might help such class leaders to write out a few simple questions to ask the class until they can draw people out with greater ease. Every teacher should be sure that her assignment arouses the interest of the class members and invites them to read and study the next lesson, beginning at the earliest possible moment. This year we are going to lay special stress on participation by the class in the lessons, so an effort should be made to get the Magazine in the hands of all who attend and then they should be encouraged to read and study the lessons so that they come to the class with something to give. In this condition they will be able to receive much more than when they hardly know what the lesson is about. RELIEF SOCIETY TWO-DAY CONVENTIONS, 1931 Alberta............ August 15-16 October 24-25 Big Horn.......... August 29-30. August 15-16  September 12-13 Carbon.......... September 26-27 Curlew........... October 17-18 Duchesne.......... August 22-23 Emery............ October 24-25 Garfield............ August 15-16 Idaho....... Bois August 29-30 Juarez............ September 5-6 Kanab............. August 29-30 Lethbridge......... August 15-16 Lost River........ October 17-18 466 Lyman............ October 17-18 Maricopa........ November 1415 Moapa.......... September 19-20 Nevada........... October 17-18 Panguitch.......... August 29-30 Raft River...... September 12-13 Roosevelt.......... August 22-23 St. George...... September 19-20 St. Johns.......... August 15-16 St. Joseph......... September 5-6 San Juan........ September 12-13 San Luis........ September 19-20 Snowflake......... August 22-23 Star Valley...... September 19-20 Taylor............. August 22-23 Uintah...... 3aAugust 22-23 Union.......... September -19-20 Wayne............ October 17-18 Woodruff......... October 10-11 Young.......... September 19-20 Zion Park........ September 5-6 RELIEF SOCIETY ONE-DAY CONFERENCES, 1931 Alpine.............. October 18 Bear Lake............ August 23 Bear River......... September 13 Beaver........˘... September 13 Benson............--October 25 Blackfoot.......... September 20 Box Elder......... September 13 Burley).. 9. September 13 Cache .....October 25. Cassia........ September 13 Cottonwood.......... October 11 Deseret  August 30 East Jordan........... August 30 Ensign. 2... October 25 Frankly.7...... September 20 Fremont............. October 18 Granite.. November 15 Grantee.... See. October 11 Gunnisone... 9.. October 18 Hollywood......... November 15 October 18 Idaho Falls........ September 13 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Juab...........4.. September 27 Kolob.........20. October 18 Lehi.....September 20 Liberty..:..........-October 11 Logan.......... August 30 Los Angeles......... November 8 Malad.............-. October 18 Millard.............. August 30 Minidoka............. October 18 Montpelier........... August 23 Morgan.............. August 30 Moroni............ September 27 Mt. Ogden......... September 22 Nebo....... September 20 North Davis....... September 17 North Sanpete...... September 13 North Sevier....... September 13 North Weber........ November 8 Ogden...3a... September 22 Oneida............ September 20 October 25 Palmyra........... September 20 Parowan...........04. August 30 Pioneer.............. October 25 Pocatello........... September 20 Portneuf.......... September 20 Rigby............. September 13 Salt Lake............ October 11 San Francisco........ October 25 Sevier......... September 13 Sharon.............. October 25 Shelley............ September 13 South Davis........ September 13 South Sanpete...... September 27 South Sevier......... October 18 Summit.............. August 30 Teton............. September 20 Timpanogos.......... October 11 Tintic September 27 Tooele............ September 20 Twin Falls......... September 20 Utah eesOctober 11 Wasatch.............. August 23 Weber............ September 22 West Jordan......... October 25 Yellowstone........... August 30
