Happenings
By Anne Wells Cannon
President Louise Y. Robison was an honored guest on the occasion of the dedication of the monument at Independence Rock, Wyoming. The party trekked over the covered wagon trail and located and marked the spot where lie buried 200 sufferers of the handcart company who perished from cold and hunger in 1856.
Mrs. Ida Smoot-Dusenberry, recently returned from a world tour says India is the most interesting country, and Gandhi the strongest personality. At Honolulu she visited Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, Commissioner of Customs at that Port.
"She smiled at weary feet And said of waxing age, 'Would I be robbed Of life's last page?'"
Old Folks' Day in Liberty Park when 2,100 aged guests were served a delicious dinner by the Relief Societies of Salt Lake County was a day always to be remembered by those who attended the unique occasion.
There seems no field of endeavor denied women. Miss Margaret Stoughton of North Carolina is now in the Forestry Department. She is studying trees in the Appalachian district.
Wonders never cease. The women of Istanbul, Turkey, having discarded their veils are campaigning for office in the municipal council.
Wouldn't the schoolgirl be sweeter if she used more soap and less paint in her make-up?
Willa Cather, the author, is the first woman to receive an honorary degree from Princeton. Miss Cather was recently given the degree of doctor of letters. Grace Abbott, chief of the Children's Bureau at Washington and Grace Coolidge were each awarded a gold medal from the National Institute of Social Sciences.
Frau Einstein proved a wholesome point in relativity while on her visit to America when she chose a modest bungalow in which to do her own work to the magnificent residence proffered by California.
Madame Schumann Heink is also an advocate of the simple life. She says "work is happiness, housekeeping, bearing and rearing children, these are all happiness."
Though Amelia Earhart Putman and Ruth Nichols, the two most famous women aviators have met with painful accidents, they still intend to carry on𦳀iss Nichols to make her solo flight across the Atlantic and Mrs. Putnam to continue demonstrating with her autogyro.
At the season's Court at Buckingham Palace, twenty American women were presented to King George and Queen Mary. Royalty seems to still have its attractions.
Wilhelmina, popular Queen of the Netherlands is the world's senior ruler since the expulsion of Alphonso from Spain.
The tragic fate of Helen of Rumania and Victoria of Spain afford interesting material for the romanticist and artist, but are positive proof of the old adage "Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown."
"The world is full of loneliness" Let hearts be glad.

