The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: INlustrations: BY HANDCART CAME They knew how far it was By measured longings for a home. Exulting as they went, their cart wheels spun Into the garnet-studded West. Children of the evening, they? No, of the noon. The scars of the night were washed away, The Zion of their days begun. A thousand miles and pull a cart! They, of avalanche and stone, Of fiords and crags, Of bounties of the sea and shore. Possessions now, were millstones gone. The throated burning in their breasts Enough to feed upon. They knew how far it was, The lingering distance stalked with death. With spider strength, dragged Carcasses of bed and skillet, Flour and salt, through grass of June, July's scorched lips, then to lay their burdens down Upon November's sod. Ground so hallowed, pray Walk unshod. —Hazel Loomis Meeting of Desert and Mountains, Southern Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Handcart in the West Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 

From Near and Far

I must tell you that I made two gingerbread houses from the recipe in the December

Magazine (by Berta Mae Peek). I gave one to some little friends of mine and the other

to my own children. All were delighted. I was surprised to find how easy it was to

make the houses and how beautiful they were. I am planning to make more cakes

next year. June JLrskme BooXh, Ames, /owe

I have been so interested in your story— "Welcome the Task" by Michele Bartmess (November

1968— June 1969). I have a special pride in reading this, too, because I feel a

special love for the person writing it. We so enjoyed being able to associate with Michele

in B YU's Maeser Hall where we were privileged to be dorm parents.

Caro/ Wright, Provo, Utah

When I first married I was given a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine as

a wedding gift. That was my first introduction, and I have never been without this

wonderful Magazine since that time. It has been an inspiration to me as a homemaker.

Since I have been in the mission field I have come to a greater awareness of

the true value of the Magazine. I have used the materials on many different assignments,

and many times the Spirit has directed me to the very issue that has given

me guidance and information. Donna Craven, Auckland, New Zealand

The Relief Society Magazine is certainly a guiding light in my life. It is almost the

only Magazine that gives so much wholesome reading. I teach the spiritual living

class in Relief Society and I love the lessons as they are presented in the Magazine.

Nadine M. B. Anderson, Steambojat Springs, Colorado

Kind Mormon friends from Washington D. C. introduced me to the Magazine and

have it sent to me. I enjoy reading it very much and admire the lovely covers. I am

pleased to see the pictures of so many of the sisters and am most grateful for the

precious gift of the Magazine. Marguerite MOIIer, Neuchatel, Switzerland

It is a most satisfying experience to me to realize how very much the sisters in the

Canadian Mission love and use the Magazine. They truly make it a vital part of their

lives. Of course, to me, it is the breath of home and loved ones, and I turn the pages

and read every word. I feel close to all the dear Relief Society sisters, and am grateful

for their strength and inspiration.

Ardella Davey, Supervisor, Canadian Mission Relief Society, Brampton, Ontario

I want to tell all of you sisters who work in that lighthouse, that The Relief Society

Magazine is the one our sisters here admire most, and we support the organization

so that the great work can go forth and our joy can be greater. We are happy to have

the Magazine in Spanish. Adela Zapata de Mejia, Mexico City, Mexico

We have an exceotionally strong and good Relief Society in the Florida Mission. The

sisters do wonderful work and receive great assistance from the General Board. The

Magazine is wonderful. Only yesterday, an eighty-three-year-old man said to me, "One

Magazine I always subscribe to is The Relief Society Magazine. When I read the

stories they always bring tears to my eyes, and this is the favorite Magazine of all

for me." We have quite a number of saints scattered and living alone out in the

islands of the Caribbean, and we always make an effort to see that they get extra

copies of the Magazine, if they do not have subscriptions.

Glen L. Rudd, President, Florida Mission, Winter Park, Florida

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from T3 size-cap overflow) ===
she pretended not to see him and hurried along faster. But the minute she stepped into the house, serenity returned and Mary became receptive to the enfolding arms of the dear home. She fixed a sandwich and 

509 July 1969

 a glass of milk and went into the living room to eat it. She picked up an open book from the table, Collection of Great Poems, and leafed through its pages. It was a favorite -book of her mother's and the penned comments on the page margins brought the beloved voice into focus reading to the children in the evenings. When she finally closed the volume and placed it almost reverently on the table, she was ready for bed. She was going to plan her work for the next day, but dropped off to sleep immediately. It was a bright hushed morning when she awoke. For amoment she felt as she did years before when she was waking in that same room—a sense of anticipation, a surge of interest, a feeling of expectancy. A knock on the door brought her to her feet. "I'm coming," she called. "just a minute." "Oh, Mary, it's just your old Aunt Gen. [I'm already in." She peered around the door. "How good to see you. You haven't -changed a bit still the prettiest girl in town!" She planted a quick kiss on Mary's surprised face. "So your mother's coming home tomorrow! We've been keeping in touch with Gwen. It will be so wonderful to have her back. You know," Aunt Gen spoke tenderly, "you look more like her than any of the girls." Quick tears stung Mary's eyes as she held the frail woman close. "That's the nicest thing anyone has said to me for years. Come and sit down Aunt Gen, and 510 what do you have under that napkin?" "Just a few cinnamon rolls for your breakfast. I knew you wouldn't stop to cook anything." She surveyed Mary with bright black eyes. "You're too thin. And your eyes tell me you are not happy. What's the matter?" Mary laughed. "Oh, Aunt Gen, you always did say my eyes gave me away. You're wrong. I'm —fine. And now that I'm home, I'm beginning to be myself again." Aunt Gen noticed the slight hesitation, but she changed the subject. "You see, I have on my working apron. I am going to stay and help you get this house all ready for your mother's return. Oh, I know," she shook her head, "you think you can do it alone. Well, maybe you can, but we're going to help." "We?" "Certainly... Irene, Lydie, Addie, and Natalie. Do you think we girls would let your mother down? After sixty years of being as close as we are? Not for one minute! Now eat your rolls, child." Mary sat down and helplessly watched Aunt Gen take over— as she always did. The cinnamon rolls were warm and sweet and she ate the three without even once thinking of her diet. Aunt Irene brought a casserole and greeted Mary with love and a few happy tears. Aunt Lydie and Aunt Addie came in talking a blue streak... Not expecting Mary to answer. Aunt Natalie was late, but her warm greeting and her gentle manner made Mary realize why her mother loved Natalie so much. It was a lovely day. Actually, Mary didn't accomplish much. Every time she started to dust or vacuum or wash windows one of the aunts firmly pushed her aside. Mostly, she listened to the familiar stories, laughed at the same anecdotes, and hummed the same nostalgic songs. Just as the sun stepped behind the Bear's Ears and flung its painted shafts at the drowsy sky, the women finished their work. Gwen called later that night to say that the plane would land at the airport at Cedar Mesa at four-thirty the next afternoon. Mary called Aunt Irene who said she would tell the others. "Don't cook your roast, Mary, save it for another day. I am bringing chicken a la Maryland that your mother likes so well." "But, Aunt Irene." "Now, Mary! I'm in a hurry. Goodbye." The next morning Mary rose early. She went out to the strawberry patch and picked a bowl of the plump sweet berries. As she washed them she thought how her mother liked them and how proud she was of her berry ¢, patch. All morning neighbors came in and greeted her with familiar affection. They were all so happy that her mother was coming home. Shy Mrs. Sanchez, who helped with the ironing, brought a basket of peppers—huge green bell peppers, round orange-red pimentos, long, pale-green mild ones and slim, dark-green hot ones. Becky brought a big apple pie, freshly baked. The little schoolteacher's wife, whom her mother had befriended, slipped her choice casserole into the Love Is Not Veiled oven. Aunt Gladys brought a loaf of her stone ground brown bread. There were bottles of sour cherry jelly, Doris' pretty pickles, a ground raisin cake, and a tin of rolls almost ready for the oven. Mary could only thank the people, her voice choking on inadequate words. How hospitable they were! How could she have forgotten her mother's lovely friends? Yes, and hers, too. How could she have cast aside these cherished customs? The first thing her mother saw when she got home from the airport were the fresh flowers. The house was full of them: roses in tall vases; late velvety clematis in a low crystal bowl; zinnias, asters, petunias, and a pottery jar filled with brown-hearted sunflowers. Mary gasped in surprise. 

511 July 1969

 "The Garden Club! How they must have worked to get them all here, fresh and smiling," her mother exclaimed. She wandered slowly through the shiny rooms smelling the fragrant bouquets, noting gleaming windows and crisp curtains. At last she settled down in her own room. "How good to be home. How wonderful to be in my own room again. God has been good to me. He sent love to make me happy. He sent comfort to me when I was sorrowful. Children and all of my friends to sustain me in my illness. I am so grateful for his sharing these 'things with me." Shey looked up at Mary, her He sent you words tender, meaningful. "Sharing is a part of life, Mary. You have to be able to receive, by knowing how to give." Mary nodded. She took Gwen's hand and the two sisters left, their mother's understanding smile blessing them. It was late that night that Mary made up her mind. She put in the call to James in New York, her hand unsteady on the receiver. When he answered she could hardly bring herself to speak. Then, humbly, sincerely, with sweet tones of love, she said, "James, do you really want me to come home?" And the sudden radiance in her face lighted up the whole room. OaS> THE INFINITE COMPOSER The great composer sat within his room, And wrote a part for every instrument, He blended wondrous themes into a whole Most beautiful, and yet: so quickly spent. But there is one whose genius is more great, His work is far more beautiful to see, He blended. All live things, all natural sounds Into an everlasting symphony. He took the mighty ocean's angry roar And tempered it with plaintive cries of gulls, The calls of cormorants and guillemots, Which fly for shelter till the great storm lulls. He shaped the rolling uplands, and the plains With March wind whispering through the waving grass, With shyest creatures swiftly burrow bound As human steps approach, and gently pass. He sent the speeding comet on its course That each might have free passage on its flight, Then massed the myriad-stars of Milky Way Into a highway of celestial light. His orchestra is heard throughout the world, In jungle, mountain, desert plain, and fjord, His music is eternal, and his skill Is absolute, he is our gracious Lord. 512 —Gillian G. Brown-Lee Worcester, Worcs., England Photograph by Willard Luc Great-grandmother Struggle the Of thirtee h relentless length " hundred thistleq Miles o €r days knew f Plain; Cartbreak, but s From faith. (Her tyr; © 8arnered Strength C spirit Scoffed at ain. Reat-grandmoth r I Y wint her Valley.

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (1 segments, 19,254 chars) ===

instead of "How I Became Involved in The Doctrine and Covenants," because the Doctrine and Covenants _ gives us the gospel. In fact, if we were to analyze its doctrines, I do not believe it could be surpassed by any of the other three books of scripture accepted by the Latter-day Saints. Furthermore, we would learn that it is the repository of many doctrines of salvation which are only mentioned or inferred in those other books. Formative Years in the Priesthood As far as I am concerned, my interest in the study of the gospel began when I became a deacon in the Aaronic Priesthood. I believe that because I was 484 given responsibility at that time my interest in the gospel was heightened. It was the practice of the counselor in the bishopric who had charge of the quorum to give assignments to the quorum members to participate in giving parts of the lesson. As an ordained teacher, I became the teacher of the quorum under the direction of a member of the ward bishopric. This practice continued in the _ priest's quorum; consequently, my interest in the gospel became very great during those formative years in the priesthood. This foundation proved very helpful in preparation for a mission, so much that when I was called to be a missionary at the age of twenty-two, I felt that I was prepared to teach the gospel when I arrived in the mission field. My interest in the gospel was theological; consequently, I learned the doctrines of the Church from all of the standard works, especially with an emphasis upon the Bible since I knew I would use it as the How I Became Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants basis of my missionary work. It wasn't until some years later, except for the use of many pas- - gages in the Doctrine and Covenants which provided clear explanations of particular. Doctrines, that I really studied the Doctrine and Covenants in depth. The True Concept of God Among many other fundamental doctrines, the missionary teaches the investigator the true concept of God. Of all the doctrines of the gospel this one stands out as one of the most important for people to know — since it is life eternal to know God. (John 17:3.) One of the difficulties a nonmember may have in accepting the concept that God is personal, having a body of flesh and bones, is God's attribute of omnipresence. The apostate "Christian" world believes that God is a spirit without form; whereas the Lord has revealed to his prophets, ancient and modern, that he has a body. He may be said, however, to be a spirit the same as "man is spirit;" that is, he, as well as -man, has always been a spirit, from eternity to eternity though in earth-life and the resurrected state the personal spirit is associated with a body. (D&C 93: 33; 130:22.) If God has a tangible body, and he is not a spirit only, then how can he be omnipresent, or everywhere? The "Light of Christ" or spirit of the Lord emanates from God to fill all space. (Acts 17:27-28; D&C 88:12.) Because of this omnipresent power, God has communication with all of his creations, and thus he is everywhere, as the scriptures aver. Salient Principles of Doctrine and Covenants The Doctrine and Covenant is different from the other three standard works of the Church because it is a little more diffcult to maintain interest in sustained reading unless one has a definite objective in his reading, such as theological. There is relatively no narrative in the Doctrine and Covenants. The exception to this is Section 135, the historical account of the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum at Carthage Jail 125 years ago. I presume that it would not be amiss to suggest an exaggerated comparison of the Doctrine and Covenants and reading the dictionary—in both, there is statement after statement of truths not always connected with the preceding information. This fact, however, has its advantages. One does not have to look very far to find rich, inspiring thoughts. Also, one must concentrate on his reading in order not to miss salient principles. Years ago I realized that many members of the Church might find difficulty in keeping up their interest in reading the Doctrine and Covenants, so I conceived the idea that this book could be enjoyed more and learned better, perhaps, through the commentaries of the prophets, seers, and revelators of the dispensation. With this and other purposes in mind, I set out to compile such a work, using the sermons and writings of the members of the First Presidencies, Twelve Apostles, and the Patriarchs to the Church to explain 

485 July 1969

 the Doctrine and Covenants. For well over five years I labored on this project which culminated in the four volumes of The Latter-Day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants, published from 1963 to 1965. I have known young as well as old people who have shown unusual interest in the Doctrine and Covenants through the use of these volumes. Writings of Elder B. H. Roberts In the years when I was learning the teachings of the Church, I was impressed with the writings of Elder B. H. Roberts of the First Council of Seventy. I remember his quoting a passage from George Rawlinson's Historical Evidences of the Truth of the Scripture Records, as follows:. Of this we may be sure, that if any new forms of evidence should hereafter be needed, to meet any new forms of unbelief, and authenticate afresh the word of truth, they will be found deposited somewhere, waiting for the fulness of time; and God will bring them forth in their season, from the dark hieroglyphics, or the desert sands, or the dusty manuscripts, to confound the adversaries of his word, and to magnify it above all his name. (Quoted in New Witness for God, Volume II, Forewords.) Under the caption of "The World's Hunger For Knowledge of The Christ," President Roberts quoted the following from the Life of the Master by Rev. John Watson: Were a_ parchment discovered in an Egyptian mound, six inches square, containing fifty words which were certainly spoken by Jesus, this utterance would count more than all the books which have been published since the first century. (Ibid.) 486 Although Elder Roberts used these quotations to support the Book of Mormon, I came early in life to know that we do have the words of Christ in the Doctrine and Covenants, in fact, hundreds and hundreds of them spoken to his Prophet, Joseph Smith. The introduction to the revelations in this book of scripture reveals the author as the Savior. Examples are: Hearken, O ye people of my church— 1:1. _— to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Lord, your God, and your Redeemer (27:1.) Behold, thus saith the Lord, even Alpha and Omega... (54:1.) A Witness for the Savior The Lord declared, however, that the revelations were given after the manner of the Prophet's language. (D&C 1:24.) The Doctrine and Covenants stands as a witness for Jesus that he is the Savior of those who want to be saved. The doctrine that salvation comes only to those who accept him and thus he saves only them, is taught plainly. (D&C 42:1; 29:17.) In truth, the Doctrine and Covenants is an answer to the present thought among some theologians that God is dead, a notion that has received wide publicity. The modern scriptures declare plainly that God lives! Two important accounts of the appearance of the Savior in this generation are given in the Doctrine and Covenants: (1) the stirring description by the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon is a testimony to this fact. And now after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we How I Became Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father— That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God. (D&C 76:22-24.) And (2) we know of the glorified account of the Savior's appearance to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple on April 3, 1836. The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father. (/bid., 110:1-4.) In a scholarly article entitled "The Requiem for God," the author gives four causes for the belief that God is dead. Among these is the awareness of suffering in the 20th century demonstrated in the work of "Christians" at the Auschwitz Prison Camp where thousands of Jews perished in death chambers. Paraphrasing the words of the author, Doris Donnelly, she said that the terrible suffering that is occurring in the world can only be attributed to God if he is made into a monster. ("The Requiem For God," Religious Education, JulyAugust 1967, p. 318.) To the Latter-day Saint the Lord has revealed the why and wherefore of human suffering, and in doing so he has given us the strength and power to endure. The inspired words given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in Liberty Jail, Missouri, provide this blessing: "know thou, my son, that all these things (sufferings and the tribulations) shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good. The Son of Man hath descended below them all. Art thou greater than he?" (D&C 122:7-8.) Truly, when man knows the purpose of suffering, he is better able to endure it. Ultimately, sorrow, suffering, and like adversities are for our development, growth and _ purification. (Lesson 92 "Adversity," Relief Society Magazine, October 1968.) A Witness for the Bible I learned that in addition to the power of the Doctrine and Covenants as a testator for the Savior, it also helped me immeasurably as a student of the gospel to affirm my faith in and acceptance of other Biblical teachings. I believe that the modern standard works of the Church have greatly increased the faith of Latter-day Saints in the Bible, a book which has lost ground among "Christian" people. President Brigham Young said he expected to see' the Bible voted out of the so-called Christian world, and progress was being made in doing so in his day. (Discourses of Brigham Young, p. 125.) Since then, the Bible has been quite generally set aside as being true. Fundamental gospel teachings have been rejected. As long ago as 1929, in a survey of 500 ministers and 

487 July 1969

 500 students studying for the ministry, many teachings held dear to the older ministers were not acceptable to most of the younger men. (Leo Rosten, editor, A Guide to the Religions of America, pp. 236-238.) On the other hand, the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith that the revelations he gave him would have the effect of increasing faith among men. (D&C 1: 17-23.) Thousands of people have had their faith restored and also increased in the credibility of the Bible through their acceptance of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The trek of our pioneer forefathers over long miles of plains bears solemn testimony to their faith built upon modern revelation. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Caught the sacrifice and toil of these hardy, faithful men and women as he described in a general conference later published in a book "To Them of the Last Wagon," this magnificent accomplishment, as follows: That evening was the last of the great trek, the mightiest trek that history records since Israel's flight from Egypt, and as the sun sank below the mountain peaks they of the last wagon, and of the wagon before them, and of the one before that, and so the very front wagon of the train, these all sank to their knees in the joy of their souls, thanking God that at last they were in Zion. "Zion, Zion, lovely Zion, Beautiful Zion, Zion, City of our God."' They knew there was a God, for only he could have brought them tnumphant, militant, through all the scorn, the ridicule, the slander, the tarrings and featherings, the whippings, the burnings, the plunderings, the murderings, the ravishing of wives and daughters, that had been their lot, the lot of their people since Joseph visioned the Father and the Son. (Conference Report, October 1947, page 158.) 488 Words of the Lord to This Generation How did I become involved in the study of the Doctrine and Covenants? You will have observed by now that my interest came about as a youth because I needed the Doctrine and Covenants to clarify many Bible doctrines in my preparation for the mission field. Also, I came to know that this book of scripture is a witness for the divinity of the Savior. In addition, I saw in the Doctrine and Covenants the words of the Lord Jesus Christ to the people of this generation. This last fact was apparent, for it is a modern book intended to guide people on the road to salvation in the present world. In the Bible there are many prophecies regarding the last days. My interest was aroused in the Doctrine and Covenants because it is a "voice of warning" to the people of our times, just as the Bible was intended to "warn" the people of the generations about which it speaks, and at the same time, in prophecy, it spoke of our dispensation. In other words, to have the Creator of the earth inform us of what is to happen to this world and its inhabitants today even more clearly than the information on this subject in the Bible, is a stimulus for the members of the Church to become involved in the Doctrine and Covenants. For example, the very conditions which we see today—extreme wickedness, disbelief in God, people becoming laws 'unto themselves—were foreknown. Of interest to all of us are world events. The political unrest among the nations, the How I Became Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants extent of rumors of wars and actual conflict, together with the great amount of sickness and natural calamities, all signify that the times prophesied are with us. Unless extreme apa- » thy has taken hold of us, it is dificult to understand why a Latter-day Saint would not want to understand the signs preced-_ ing the second coming of Christ. We should look forward to his coming. (D&C 45:39-42.) The Purpose of Life I doubt that there is a person who at some time in his life, if not many times, has not wondered about the purpose of this life and especially the important question as to what lies beyond the grave. This ever-present question is revealed in the Doctrine and Covenants, especially the future existence following the spirit world. The truth is taught that man had a premortal state and that the earth was created for man. (D&C 92:23-29; 49:16-17.) Man is spirit and body to be wed eventually by the resurrection. (Ibid., 88:15-16.) The doctrine of the resurrection is revealed plainly, and evidence to support belief in the resurrection is given in accounts of resurrected beings communing with mortals. Such examples are: John the Baptist, Peter and James, Elijah, Moses and other prophets. ([bid., 27:5-14; 128:21.) One of the most distinctive doctrines taught in the modern revelations that has found unusual interest and profit is the one regarding the various kingdoms following the resurrection. Who has not thrilled with this "transcript from the eternal world," as he has come to understand the magnanimity, mercy, and justice of God in this divine plan? How wonderful it is to have one's eyes opened to understand the opportunity to receive exaltation—all that the Father hath? Early in life I learned this great truth, and I came to love it because it was congenial to my soul. I believe that this doctrine motivates one to serve the Lord with all his heart, might, mind, and strength. As one comes to love one teaching after another, his whole being takes on new life and new purpose. The visions of the prophets become his _ visions and. His goals. The same spirit that revealed the teachings of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the prophets also reveals these truths to the one who becomes involved in the Doctrine and Covenants. He loves the Lord because he knows that the Lord loves him. He understands what it means when the Lord said: That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that - hight groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day. (D&C 50:24.) How to B2come Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants. If someone were to ask me what he or she could do to become involved in this wonderful book of scripture, I would offer the following: 1. She could undertake an assignment to teach this book. 2. If this opportunity were not available in the classroom, she could assume that someday she would need the teachings of the Doctrine and 

489 July 1969

 Covenants to help her as a teacher, administrator in the Church, to assume the responsibilities of a parent, to abide by the charge of "every member a missionary," and above all for her own salvation. 3. She could ask herself a series of questions about the doctrines of the Church periodically and then endeavor to learn the answers to these questions from the Doctrine and Covenants by the use of the index, concordance, commentaries, and other means. 4. She could resolve to set aside ten or fifteen minutes each day to read the revelations. If there were times when she found it hard to follow this practice she could remember the advice of President Brigham Young concerning prayer: If you do not feel like praying then get down on your knees, then stay there until you get the spint of prayer. (Journal of Discourses 7:164.) So also, she could be as persistent until she became the victor. No doubt other means might be employed of accomplishing the same purpose. In any case, I bear testimony that a knowledge of the teachings of the Doctrine and Covenants is necessary to attain the heights of performance required to receive eternal life. The revelations are true, Joseph Smith is a prophet, and his successors enjoy the same calling. All of this means that Jesus Christ is our Savior in every sense of the word; he lives, this I know by the testimony of the Spirit. I HIS GIFT They say Six thousand of them perished as they came this way. And she was one of those. He could not fathom why they left her there Why he must forfeit all her loving care, Nor why her life must close. Just eight years old. He walked the rocky path With no sweet hand to keep him on the trail. His father, stumbling on with bitter eyes, Ruing the day he left his English skies, Fearing what future griefs might yet unveil— Desperate and doubtful then—he prayed, and stayed. Then came gray days, And homeless, drifting, lonely, seeking years. He found no Mecca in this rugged land, No dream fulfilled for him. Yet for his son He gave a gift beyond comparison. He gave America to compensate those tears. 490 —Sadie Ollerton Clark Cypress — I WOODED H EADLAND Someone /, Announcement of Winners Mary R.