[Vol10 | November 1923 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Something to Think About Heber J. Sears, M. D.]

Something to Think About Heber J. Sears, M. D. Department of Hygiene?University of Utah
Isn't it strange that we give first thought to animals and then to humans? In the year 1860 a society was organized for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, but not until 1875 was the society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children established. Then came Child Labor Laws, the study of the Delinquent Child, Day Nurseries, etc., but the protection of the health of the child is the development of the Twentieth century. Twenty-five years ago we had no reliable mortality statistics. It was the publication of these in 1906 that called attention to the appalling loss of life during infancy and childhood. With the opening of the Twentieth century came a swarm of organizations devoted to the welfare of the child. In 1908 New York City organized the Division of Child Hygiene. In 1909 a conference was called by the American Academy of Medicine for the study of the Prevention of Infant Mortality. In 1912 the Federal Child Bureau was formed. The year 1915 marked the establishment of the Birth Registration Area and the publication of Birth Statistics. In 1920 the National Child Health Council was organized. We now have fourteen National health organizations and the end is not yet. Then there is the health work in schools which was started solely with the thought of excluding contagious diseases but was gradually extended to medical inspection and the detection and correction of physical defects. Now the school authorities are beginning to regard health education as a fundamental branch in the training of every child. Health literature is being distributed by the ton?printed in attractive form and written in simple language. Almost every newspaper and magazine prints articles on health attractively written by competent medical men. Today the medical profession and the laity have joined hands, and the science of health is now no longer surrounded by mystery. Such organizations as Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, and Little Mothers' League, and auxiliary Church organizations, all give health a prominent place in their work. Our next forward step will be concentration on the mother or future mother?pre-natal work. And when all parents come to a full realization of the importance of this we will be breeding a race such as this world has never yet seen. Think it over.