[Vol10 | November 1923 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field]

Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
Teton Stake Reorganized
At the Relief Society convention held August 18 and 19, the Teton stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Susie M. Wilson, because of poor health, felt it necessary to resign from her position as president, and she and her co-workers were honorably released. Mrs. Wilson has been in the Relief Society presidency of this stake twenty-two years,?nine years as counselor and thirteen years as president. Her counselors, Mrs. Marian H. Price and Mrs. Hannah E. Stevens, have served the full thirteen years. Mrs. Susie M. Wilson has been a most capable and faithful president. She has manifested rare intelligence and vision in the performance of her duties, and has succeeded in placing the work of the Teton stake on a high plane. Mrs. Wilson has won the love and respect of 
Star Valley Stake
The Star Valley stake Relief Society was reorganized on September 23. Mrs. Martha E. Roberts, who has moved to Logan for the winter, was honorably released after eight years of faithful service. During her incumbency, Mrs. Roberts has put forth her best efforts and energy in the interest of the work, and has endeared herself to her associates as well as to the public generally. The members of the General Board appreciate the labors of Mrs. Roberts, and their good wishes go with her in her new home, where it is hoped she will continue to be interested in the work of the organization. The new officers of the Star Valley stake are, Mrs. Kitty D. Burton, president; Mrs. Ella C. Cook, first counselor; Mrs. Pearl B. Holbrook, second counselor; and Mrs. Alice A. Gardner, who was retained as secretary.
Eastern States Mission
Miss Marie Danielson, president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States mission writes: "The Relief Society work here in the mission, so far as I can tell, is going along very nicely. There are twenty-four organizations in the mission, and all ex-

cept five have held meetings most of the summer. August 19, we held a very successful Relief Society conference at Scranton, Pennsylvania. There was a very large attendance, including all the elders from East Pennsylvania conference. The sisters all seemed very much interested and appreciative for the conference. Just now we are busy planning for the Pilgrimage to Cumorah, September 22-23. During the week following, I am planning on holding conferences with the Relief Societies at Buffalo, Jamestown, Syracuse and Albany."
Idaho Stake
At the request and with the assistance of the Idaho Stake Relief Society Board, the Idaho state Board of Health held a Mother and Child health conference and clinic in Bancroft, August 27, 28, and 29. At this conference, which was attended by local doctors, also, two hundred forty-six mothers and children were examined, free, under the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner bill.
North Sanpete Stake
The North Sanpete stake Relief Society has been doing very good work during the past summer along health lines. During July and August free clinics were held in Mt. Pleasant, Fairview, Spring City, Moroni, and Fountain Green, the local doctors making the examinations, which numbered 157 in all. It is felt that much valuable information has been received through these clinics, which will result in corrective follow-up work. This stake also had a fly campaign and offered a prize to the ward destroying the most flies. It was very successful, and must have lessened the fly crop in the vicinity, as there were, by measurement and count, about 179,546 flies killed. The following summer programs planned by the stake board for the wards were very much liked and successfully carried out in nearly every ward: Suggestive Program Submitted by the North Sanpete Stake Relief Society Summer Work It -is suggested that each ward make a special effort to furnish good music,-either in the form of Glee Club, Solo, or Quartette: July 3rd: Special Testimony Meeting 15 minute Faith Inspiring Talk: Sacred Solo: Testimonies: July 10th: Work Meeting July 17th: Pioneer Program (For all Pioneers) (refreshments) 
 for the past fifty years, in sewing for the dead and those in need. They have given this service without any compensation whatever, and have always done their share of the regular Relief Society work, in addition. These women have looked upon this service as a labor of love. Their mothers were engaged in the work before them, and they were trained to it from early youth. They have left their own work at home and gone under all circumstances to serve the community, and the whole community joined in rendering to them a tribute of love and appreciation. The entertainment in honor of these faithful workers began with singing and prayer, after which the following program was given: Words of Welcome, by President Maud Dalton; Greetings and Tributes, by stake president, Mrs. Mary M. Marsden; Ladies chorus, by five nieces of Mrs. Hoyle and Mrs, Halterman; humorous reading by Mrs. Malinda Adams; vocal solo, Mamie D. Orton. Sentiments to the three honored guests were given by the following: Annie Gurr, Mary L. Orton, Julia Lyman, Amelia Topham, Sarah A. Stevens, Belle Empy, Elenor Bruhn, Marian A. Gudmundsen, Mette Rasmussen, and Amelia Burton, who also read a tribute from Mrs. Emily C. Watson of Cedar City. A duet was sung by Florence Joseph and Dean Richards; remarks were made by. The following brethren: Bishop Hugh L Adams, Charles Adams, R. H. Benson, and Walter C. Mitchell. Responses were given by the three honored guests, after which there was a general handshake, and delicious refreshments. Among those in attendance were five Relief Society stake officers, and twelve brethren making a total of 155 present. Liberty Stake "On June 29, 1923, a unique and practical testimonial was given to Mrs. Leona G. Holbrook, retiring first counselor in the Relief Society of Liberty stake. During the day, members and friends (the latter both male and female) spent a day working in the temple on behalf of the deceased relatives of Mrs. Holbrook. As a souvenir of the occasion, a book containing the names of these 245 workers was presented to Mrs. Holbrook, who expressed herself as being deeply affected by this action of consideration which, as she stated, would bear fruits into. The eternity. A few days previous to this, a dinner affair was given at the home of Mrs. Myr: le Ballard Shurtliff, president of the Relief Society of Liberty stake, in honor of Mrs. Holbrook. Toasts, songs, and other appropriate features contributed to the evening's delight and entertainment. The stake presidency and wives, and board members with their husbands, were guests. Mrs Holbrook was presented with a silver plate. The entertainment features were conducted under the guidance of Mrs. Gertrude Michelson, the newly appointed member of the Relief Society stake presidency. NOTES FROM THE FIELD S71 In Memoriam Box Elder Stake One of the victims of the recent flood at Willard City, August 13, was the president of the Willard ward Relief Society, Mary Fllen Brewerton Ward. At the time of her death, she was also the city treasurer. She and her daughter-inlaw, Agnes Mason Ward, the daughter of Charles and Emma White Mason, were the only ones who lost their lives in the flood at Willard. Mrs. Ward was the daughter of Thomas W. And Sarah Brewerton, early pioneers of Willard, and the widow of George Alfred Ward, who died October, 1897. She was born in Willard, in 1863, and was married at the age of eighteen. She and her husband moved to Elmo, Cassia county, Idaho, at which place all of their children, five sons, were born. The last twenty years of her widowhood she spent in Willard city. Her home life was always radiant with love and patience; her social life full of service and kind deeds. Gifted with a beautiful voice she was a member of Professor Evan Stephens early Willard choir, when a young girl, and a member of the Willard ward choir at the time of her death. Her home, a large firmly-built brick house, was swept away by the flood, not a brick remaining to mark the spot. This home she shared with her son Earl, and his wife Agnes, the latter perishing with her. Mrs. Ward was counselor to the former Willard Relief Society president, Mrs. Agnes Owens, and when Mrs. Owens moved to Salt Lake City three years ago, Mrs Ward was selected as president, with Mary L. Harding and Mary E. Lemon as first and second counselors, respectively. They were lovingly known among the sisters as "The Three Marys." Counselor Mary L. Harding died May 10, 1923, of influenzapneumonia, being ill only a few days. She was the daughter of George and Mary J. Harding, and was born in Willard, August 6, 1869. She spent her whole life in cheerful service for others. For many years she was a competent nurse, and was known throughout Box Elder county for her excellent ability as such. Following her mother's death, in 1913, she took charge of her tather's home. She held many positions of trust in her home town and was a devoted Latter-day Saint. She was always a friend to the poor and needy and will be greatly missed by the entire community. It is singular that these two good women, so closely related in life, should go to the Great Beyond so near together. But it is a satisfaction to their associates to know that they were prepared. No souls could have been more devo'ed to duty here than they were. Death was but an entrance to a larger sphere.