[Vol10 | November 1923 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: The Reasons for the Christmas Seal]

The Reasons for the Christmas Seal
Again we are reminded of the Christmas seal. And to those who question what the purchase of these brightly colored little stamps means, we relate the story of a young man, his wife and baby, as discovered by the Utah Public Health Association. The man was emaciated and obviously suffering from advanced tuberculosis. The wife was tired, nervous, flushed and apparently ill. The baby was listless, pale, awakening from stupor occasionally with a sharp scream of pain. According to the man, he had developed tuberculosis about five years previously, but in spite of his condition, he was able to work and obtained a reasonably good job. Two years later he decided to marry, feeling that he was doing his full duty when he explained to his bride-to-be that he was tuberculous. She accepted the situation and expressed herself as "willing to take a chance." When discovered the man was found to be far advanced. He had run his course. He could work no more. The wife was suffering from a moderately advanced active tuberculosis and in urgent need of care. She had taken her chance and was reaping the consequences. There was one member of the little family, however, who had not been consulted. No one had questioned whether he wanted to take a chance. The baby was suffering from tuberculous meningitis, not caused by heredity but from the pitiful lack of knowledge and care of his parents. He has since died. This is only one of the scores of tragedies which might be prevented, that come to light in the survey work of the Utah Public Health Association. They emphasize the need of more and more education, more and more agitation, bigger and stronger and more far-reaching tuberculosis work. And it is to provide just such education and such work and to carry on the public health campaign that the Christmas seals are annually sold. They afford opportunity to thousands of people to most efficiently aid the suffering and afflicted. Their purchase means bestowal of tenderness and consideration on the weak, infinite pity on the suffering, and a broad charity on all, in such manner that it will not be wasted.