A Mothers' Day Observance Without Children By Olivia S. Waddoups A VISIT to Hawaii or a study of Hawaii and her problems would not be complete without some study and mention of the unique and in many ways beautiful little Leper Settlement on the Island of Molokai. If you were to take steamer from the peaceful harbor of Honolulu you would in all probability leave about 8 p. M. If you were fortunate enough to have a sufficiently smooth voyage to permit sleep and were a good enough sailor not to spend the night nursing your stomach, you would likely be awakened early the next morning by the crowing of numerous cocks, and upon investigation would find yourself quietly resting in the secluded little harbor outside the entrance to the Kalaupapa Leper Settlement. As soon as day was sufficiently advanced you would be lowered into a little row boat, rowed to shore, in the manner used by the boats in these little landings for a hundred years. At the pier you would be met by the genial Manager of the settlement, R. L. Cook, who would give you such a welcome that you would at once feel at home. The welcome shower and tasty breakfast of the manager's home would put you in perfect physical and mental condition to enjoy the many surprises which you would find in this one of the most unusual little settlements in the world. The purpose of our little visit was to lend help and encouragement to the members of our church living there, and of course our first concern was for them. To our perfect satisfaction, we found that the president of the branch had arranged a series of meetings in the commodious meeting house, so that we could present the principles of the gospel to the people, and lend whatever encouragement and hope we could to our dear saints residing there. Let me pause to say, that in all the branches of the church I have ever visited, I have never found more faithful and energetic saints than live in Kalaupapa. Perhaps they feel closer to our Father in Heaven because they feel so very dependent upon his mercy and love. ONE of the most interesting of all the meetings which we held was the meeting held in honor of Motherhood, on Mothers' Day. Not a child in the meeting house. Not a baby in any of the homes in the Settlement. In other churches in Hawaii, on this Mothers' Day the children place a lei or wreath of carnations lovingly around the neck of their mother, but here in Kalaupapa there are no carnations, the mothers request that there be none presented; perhaps they feel that they prefer no flowers if their own children's hands may not place them on their necks. In all it was a sad meeting, and yet there was a feeling of peace and contentment there, that I have never felt elsewhere. If children could not pay tribute to their mothers, mothers could thank God for their children. I wish you could all have the experience of visiting this little colony. As we entered the little chapel we were greeted with "Aloha nui, pehea oukou," "Good morning, how are you." The Hawaiian greeting is full of love and good will, no word I know of in any language expresses the meaning of the Hawaiian "Aloha." Every scarred face is wreathed in smiles, every swollen and disfigured mouth breathes a prayer to our Heavenly Father for you, every honest but often feeble beating heart is full of love for you and the Gospel, which means so much to them. My heart was somewhat heavy, as I was away from my own children, my mother, and the missionaries whom I love as my own, and who treat me as a mother. How proud the mothers at home should be of their noble sons, who are in the mission field. After the service is over, a service not unlike the usual service held for Mothers' Day in other places, except as noted above, we were invited by the Doctor, the Superintendent and their wives to visit, with them, the nursery, at the hospital. On arriving there we found thirteen beautiful babies less than eight months old, all babies of leprous parents, clean and perfect in body and mind. These babies are never touched by the mother's hands but are taken away at birth and cared for in the nursery. The reception room had in the center, serving as a partition, a large plate glass window. Through this glass partition the mothers sat and looked on their darling babies, never knowing the feel of their chubby arms, their lips at the breast, nor their wriggly little forms in their own arms, loving them at a safe distance, permitting them, as only RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mothers know how to sacrifice, to be separated from them, for their own safety. Truly mother love knows not self, but is sacrificed for the good of their children, how like the love of God. These mothers gazed with tear dimmed eyes, asking by motion of lip, which was her baby, if it slept well, if it liked the artificial feeding, if it was good natured, and other questions so close to a mother heart. After a half hour of this my heart was so full that my eyes overflowed, and I thanked God for my own children, all of whom I have personally fed at my breast, loved and through them been glorified. Motherhood through a plate glass window, yet all of them, outwardly, at least, were happy, smiling and thankful, that they could thus see their darlings. How selfish of me to complain that I am separated from my own for just this one day. Now when Mothers' Day comes round my thoughts and prayers are for the mothers who view their babies through a plate glass window, in the Leper Settlement of Kalaupapa. The Territorial government has amply provided for the care of these babies, until they are old enough to be either placed in the homes of their own relatives or cared for and educated in private homes, of honorable citizens of Hawaii. One very fortunate, and perhaps surprising thing about these beautiful children, is that so far as is known, few if any of them, during the past fifty years, are known to have contracted the disease from their leprous parents. They seem to be as free from it as the ordinary child. Just one of the mysteries of this oldest, and perhaps least understood disease.
