There isn't such a thing Anna Garlin Spencer By Amy Brown Lyman R. ANNA GARLIN SPENCER, one of America's noted women, passed away on February 12, 1931, at her home in New 'York City, only two months before her eightieth birthday. Born April 17, 1851, of excellent parents, in Attleboro, Massachusetts, and was a direct descendant of Peter Garlin who emigrated to the United 'States in 1637. Mrs. Spencer was one of the rarest spirits and most gifted women of her time. Although slight in figure and rather delicate physically, she was possessed of a powerful intellect and remarkable mental clarity. Availing herself of every opportunity for study and training, she won many academic honors. Free from prejudices and complexes, her lovely personality and fine mind were released for constructive, helpful work, of which she did her full share. Mrs. Spencer was a pioneer in social work and public welfare. She was a suffrage leader, sociologist, philanthropist, teacher, preacher, and writer; and withal, a faithful and helpful wife and devoted mother. She was well known to many 'Utah women through association in the National Council of Women of the United States, and was always their loyal and interested friend. She had been active in the Council from the beginning, and attended the organization meeting in 1888, appearing on the program on that memorable occasion. She had held various offices in the Council, and at the time of her death was honorary vice president. She was.It is a deep satisfaction to all who knew and loved her that she was able to be her active, busy, and efficient self until almost her last moment. ~ On February 2, 3 and 4, 1931, she attended the biennial meeting of the National Council of Women, where she was the foremost figure and leading spirit of the convention, directing in a marvelous manner plans for the reorganization of the Council. On Monday, February 9, the day before she was taken ill, she gave a lecture in her course on The (family before one hundred and seventy-eight students at Columbia University. On Tuesday, the 10th, she was at her desk in the office of the American Social Hygiene Association, from which she directed her work in the Family Relations Division. On Tuesday evening she attended a dinner given by the League of Nations Association in honor of Dame Rachel Crowdy of England. She was taken sick during this dinner, and two days later passed away without distress or anxiety. Dr. Spencer's public career began at the age of eighteen 'when she taught school in Providence, 'Rhode Island. She later took up newspaper work and magazine writing, and for nine years was connected with the Providence Journal. All this time she continued her academic studies. In 1891 she was ordained a minister of the Unitarian Church, in which she preached regularly for fourteen years. Her husband was also a minister of this denomination. Early in life she had been interested in moral education and social reform, and she later specialized in ANNA GARLIN SPENCER these fields. She was for ten years associate director and staff lecturer of the New York School of Philanthropy; for three years she was special lecturer on social service and 299 Theological School, Meadville, Pennsylvania; in 1918 she was lecturer at the University of Chicago; and since 1920 she had been a lecturer in social science at Teachers' ANNA GARLIN SPENCER social aspects of education, at the (University of Wisconsin, and director of the Summer School of Ethics for the American Ethical Union; for five years she was Hackley professor of sociology and ethics at the College, Columbia University. At the time of her death, she was director of the Division of Family (Relations, American Social Hygiene \Association. She was for six years a member 260 of the Board of Control of the Rhode Island State Home and 'School for Dependent Children; she was secretary and later vice president of the Rhode Island Woman's Suffrage Association; president of the local Council of Women of (Rhode Island, in which capacity she aided in securing the law by which the legal age of the child worker was raised from ten to twelve years, and other reforms in the interest of ifactory workers; she was an officer of the Providence Society for Organizing (Charity; and chairman of the section on child saving and care of the International Conference of Social Work. The memory of Anna Garlin Spencer will be sacred to all those fortunate enough to have known her. They will remember her for her keen interest and active participation in causes which have had for their object the benefit of humanity and the raising of human life to its highest level𡟙n woman suffrage, in temperance, in social reform and legislation, in health work including social hygiene, in world peace. She assisted personally in all of these causes and held numerous positions lof trust and honor in connection with them. They will remember Mrs. Spencer for her fine outlook and progressive views on the problems of the day, as she expressed them on the platform and in her writings, among which are the following interesting volumes: Woman's Share in Social Culture; The Care of Dependent, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Neglected, and Wayward Children; The Family and Its Members. They will remember her for her keen intellect, her power of discrimination, her ability to weigh and sift evidence on a mooted question; for her ability to assemble facts and organize a constructive plan; for her eloquence and power as a public speaker; for her sincerity and honesty; and for her courage and sense of humor which were so effective in times of discouragement. They will remember and appreciate her most of all, however, for her charming personality and her precious self㻖ree from envy, jealousy and prejudice, and abounding in tender sympathy and love for her Father's other children. The following tribute was paid to Dr. Spencer by Dr. Valeria H. Parker, honorary president of the National Council of Women of the United States: "I count as one of the greatest blessings of my life the privilege of sharing work with Dr. Anna Garlin Spencer and of knowing her as friend. Her mind and spirit retained their radiance until she entered in her last hours of sleep. Her physical body never changed to the heavy potter of old age. Her last public appearance was as she would have wished it, at a great international gathering. "Her nearly four score years of rich and fruitful living and rare vision of the future will challenge the many who miss her earthly presence and who will forever cherish her bright and loving memory."
