Notes from the Field Western States Mission: On Janurary 10 and 11, 1931, a most successful branch conference of the Western States Mission was held at Omaha and Council Bluffs. President and Sister Elias S. Woodruff met with the missionaries and saints of the East Nebraska Branch in the conference sessions, where the time was given over to the consideration of the Relief Society and Sunday School work in the mission. Bishop David A. Smith and Brother Robert L. Judd of. The Deseret Sunday School Union Board, and Sister Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary of the Relief Society, were in attendance, to represent their auxiliary organization work, and help interpret it to the local officers. On Saturday evening, January 10, the Relief Society conference was held in the chapel at Omaha. Where the accompanying picture was taken of the assembled group. President Woodruff and Sister Woodruff gave most inspirational instructions, which were followed by interesting reports WESTERN STATES MISSION, EAST NEBRASKA BRANCH from tthe local presidents of tthe Omaha, Lincoln and Council Bluffs Relief Society, after which Sister Lund spoke of the great objectives of Relief Society work and its place in the missions. On Sunday morning, January 11th, Sunday School conferences and special executive meetings of the Relief Society were 286 held in the Council Bluffs chapel, where much constructive work was discussed, and it was voted at the close of this conference one of great inspiration and assistance in the work. Australian Mission: MISTER HAZEL B. TINGEY, president of the Australian Mission Relief Society, gives the following interesting report of her mission: 'In traveling through the mission I am happy to report things in a very favorable condition. We now have six organizations of the Relief Society, and in visiting I find the spirit displayed by the sisters in each organization to be one of love and unity. It seems that our faith and devotion to the work is being increased day by day, and that we cannot be grateful enough to our Heavenly Father for the many blessings that He has bestowed upon us as a people. Due to the necessity of so many of our sisters having to earn their own living, also because of the great distance they are from the church, we do not have as many enrolled as we should like. However, we have changed the plan of meeting in the afternoon, and are now meeting in the evening when the Priesthood is in session. This. Plan seems to be far more successful, and will permit many more of the sisters to come, especially as many of them have young children, and these mothers are the ones who derive the greatest amount of benefit from the Relief Society work.. The organization course of study in all its various phases is being handled very successfully in most of our districts. The sisters are timid in their feelings in reference to their capability of handling the subjects and doing them justice. 'We also find that not as many of our sisters are taking RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the Magazine as we should like, but trust in the near future they will see their way clear to do so, as the Magazine is indispensable in the lesson work. I trust that this letter finds all well at home, and J pray the blessings of our Heavenly lather may attend all in this great work." North Central States Mission: ROM the North Central States we have the interesting report that the work is going on very splendidly, and that one of the new organizations has among its members about twenty women not members of the Church. These women come to get the benefit derived from the wonderful lessons and discussions. They donate to the charity fund, and say that the Relief Society is one of the most pleasant organizations among women they have ever attended. The winter has been a mild one in this quarter, but the unemployment has made it necessary to do a great deal of charity work. The Lord has blessed the missionaries with good health, and even though their numbers have decreased, the good work has steadily gone forward. Portneuf Stake: T= first of the reports on the recent Annual Day celebration to reach the office comes from Portneuf. The secretary writes: "I am pleased to report that most of the wards in Portneuf stake observed Relief Society Annual Day with appropriate programs of songs, readings and papers on the first organization. Also a one-act play was presented. Dancing of old time dances was very much enjoyed by the old people, and delicious refreshments completed a very successful gathering. In some cases two or more. Wards made this a district affair, while others made it NOTES FROM THE FIELD a home celebration. The wards throughout the stake thoroughly enjoyed the day and did full honor to the occasion." Juarez Stake: OX of the most comprehensive and delightful reports of stake activities that has reached the office comes from our far away Mexican stake—Juarez. The president writes: "With the closing of the records and making of reports for the year 1930, we thought it fitting to report some of the accomplishments in this stake during the past year, and the means by which we have been able to do our work. We found it most interesting to check up on the aims we made at the beginning of last year, and see how nearly we have been able to accomplish them. When the work closed last spring we had a request from the ward presidents to permit them to hold Relief Society during the summer months. We were very happy to grant this, and submitted to them a uniform program that was carried out by all the wards, with very excellent results. This program consisted of two Work and Business Meetings a month, one Theology and one Testimony meeting, a topic for visiting teachers each month, and one lesson on moral training of children in the home, one on prenatal and postnatal care of the child, and one on the Magazine. With the closing of the summer work and the beginning of the Fall, we had a class leaders' convention which was well attended by class leaders and officers from all over the stake. The lesson work was carefully outlined and skillfully put over, and succeeded in imparting such enthusiasm at the beginning that the effects of it were felt in the class work throughout the year. The lessons planned are so wonderful and so broad in their 287 scope, that the women of this stake can ill afford to miss the possible benefits and development that may be derived from participation and study in these, and we have planned to devise ways and means of getting more women into actual contact with the lesson work. To increase the attendance we first had the presidents of the various wards write a letter to each member expressing appreciation for their support and cooperation, and pointing out the benefits that may be derived from regular attendance at the weekly meeting, and enclosed a record of their attendance at Relief Society during the past year. The letter closed with an urgent appeal -to improve their record during the coming year. We also had them write a letter of good will and cheer to the homebound in their wards. Next we made out blanks for a monthly survey of the ward Relief Societies. This gives us specific information concerning the attendance of the officers and class leaders at prayer meeting, Relief Society, Union Meeting, the Magazine subscriptions, and the grade of the teachers' preparation. It also gives specific information concerning the attendance at Relief Society of the visiting teacher, her monthly visit, discussion of the topic, her Magazine subscription and her efficiency percent, if she reads the lesson. We made a yearly outline for our Work and Business Meeting, and in it we planned for a larger variety of work to be done than ever before, this to increase the attendance at the meetings, and our plan has worked out so successfully that the attendance has increased from 52 to 60%. Our Union Meetings are our best means of putting over our work, but owing to the scattered condition of our stake, and the distance some of our wards are from each other, we 288 can always be assured of a full representation of all our wards only once in three months. To offset this difficulty we put all instructions given in Union Meeting, both in the executive and lesson departments, into a monthly bulletin, and mail it to the wards after each Union Meeting. In these bulletins we send each month a detailed plan for the Work and Business Meeting for the month that is to follow. We feel that if every mother in the stake will determine that every party given in her home, whether for children, young people, or adults, shall be well planned and well supervised, much can be done to improve and raise the standards of amusement, and to aid in this we send out games and suggestions for a party, for both children and adults. These have been enthusiastically received, and on the whole we feel that our bulletin has given us closer contact with the wards, and brought heartier and more immediate results than anything we have done heretofore. In spite of our scattered condition we are able to make quarterly visits throughout the stake, and keep in fairly close touch. As the outcome of our lesson work in the literary and social service departments, we have planned a story-writing contest. We feel that our country is rich in material suitable for short stories, and that whatever incidents concerning the settling and development of our colony can be written and preserved, will be worth much to the coming generation. It will also help develop latent ability and talent that may be in our midst. The project seems to have created great enthusiasm and we are hoping the 1st of May will see a number of stories in our possession. We feel that we are beginning to get results from our work with the Relief Society in the Mexican branch. We have on our board an officer of the Mexican Relief Society, and through her we have been able to get in closer touch with the people of this country, and to understand their difficulties and be better able to help them. Our mission in this land is for that, and great effort on our part is necessary to prepare us to be of service to them. We are planning a Work and Business demonstration for the Fall. The members of our stake board are zealous, efficient women, full of integrity and an intense desire to be of service, and most of all they love the Relief Society work and are anxious and willing to further it in every way in our stake."

