[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 871 | Lesson | Social Science — Priesthood Function and the Community Ariel | S. Ballif]

SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government
The Functioning of Church Government

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

Lesson 18 — Priesthood Function and the Community

For Fourth Meeting, February 1965

Objective: To point out that the functioning of the Priesthood
involves the total of human experience.

In the mind of God there is no such thing as dividing spiritual from temporal, or temporal from spiritual; for they are one in the Lord. . . .

. . . We cannot talk about spiritual things without connecting with them temporal things, neither can we talk about temporal things without connecting spiritual things with them. They are inseparably connected (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 13).

Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of men; neither Adam, your father, whom I created.

Behold, I gave unto him that he should be an agent unto himself; and I gave unto him commandment, but no temporal commandment gave I unto him, for my commandments are spiritual; they are not natural nor temporal, neither carnal nor sensual (D&C 29:34, 35).

The term community is a well-accepted social science designation for the actions, interests, and experiences of a related group of people. As the title of this lesson suggests, we want to look at the application of the teachings of the Church in the daily experiences of its members. We want to observe the effectiveness of the organization in producing the well-balanced life of its members.

As has been stated before, the organizational pattern of the Church comes from God. The applications and functions of the organization are subject to the limitations of human beings striving for perfection.

SOCIAL PROBLEMS ARE CONTINUOUS

In the early history of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the members were confronted constantly with the physical problems of survival. Food, shelter, even a place to reside, were constant challenges. The pioneers endured all manner of suffering and, in the end, founded and developed a remarkable community in a very antagonistic environment.

871

NOVEMBER 1964

Today, we are still struggling with the economics of life; but also we are faced with intensified serious social problems. Many of these problems have always existed, but today there are new ones, and both the new and the old have been intensified.

In the gospel of Jesus Christ, we have the direct influence of the Creator expressed in the instruction, organization, and the incentive of perfection to assist us in effectively meeting all of the problems of life. We need to apply what we know in every phase of our experience.

THE IMPORTANCE OF APPLICATION

In modern warfare, no effort is spared in teaching the personnel every technique in the execution of war activities. As an example, consider the air-borne troopers. On the ground they are given every possible experience in the performance of their duties. They are drilled in all maneuvers that they are expected to execute upon landing. They are given all the training possible on the ground about successful parachute jumping. Finally, they must go into the air and actually jump from the plane to test the value and effectiveness of their ground training. There can be no mistakes in this action; they must pull the cord at the right moment so that their parachute will open and carry them safely to the ground.

The importance of this example is that all the knowledge in the world will not bring the paratrooper safely to the earth without the application of his instructions. He must do something, in this case, pull the cord that releases his parachute.

We must do something. The gospel impels us to action. The influence of the divine constantly challenges us to discover, learn, and apply truth to the solution of the problems of life. As President Brigham Young has pointed out, one cannot separate the spiritual from the temporal, we must apply the principles of the gospel to every undertaking in life.

A MAJOR QUORUM OBJECTIVE

One of the major objectives of the Priesthood quorum is "to care for the temporal, intellectual, and spiritual welfare of all quorum members and their families" (1964 Melchizedek Priesthood Handbook, page 19). This is an inclusive objective. No part of the well-developed personality is neglected. But to accomplish this, the Priesthood activity must be extended beyond the study class on Sunday morning, or the filling of an occasional Priesthood assignment. Our religion is a full way of life. It requires a constant effort on our part to assist in overcoming the problems common to mankind. The Lord will do nothing for us that we can do for ourselves. His intelligence and wisdom are available to enlighten our minds when making a decision, if we properly seek them.

CREATING A GOOD ENVIRONMENT

To fulfill the above stated objective, the Priesthood members must take an interest in developing a healthful atmosphere and environment in the community in which they live. Let us look at the possibilities they have in the development of a good community. We will make our examination under the following head-

872

LESSON DEPARTMENT

ings: (1) Morality (2) Law and Order (3) Health and Sanitation (4) Education.

Wherever the Church is organized, the Priesthood is present. There may be only a few elders or, in the well-developed stake, there may be many quorums of Melchizedek and Aaronic Priesthood holders. However few there may be, by being united among themselves and with the help of the Lord, there is no limit to the amount of good that can be accomplished. (We must remember that Jesus was very much alone, so far as man is concerned, when he started his mission.) The larger the group of Priesthood bearers, the greater the influence they can exert upon the social climate and environmental conditions of their community.

(1) Morality. Elder James E. Talmage said, "Religion without morality, professions of godliness without charity, Church-membership without adequate responsibility as to individual conduct in daily life, are but as sounding brass and tinkling cymbals" (The Articles of Faith, page 429).

Moral is "characterized by excellence in what pertains to practice or conduct; right or proper; dealing or concerned with establishing principles of right and wrong in behavior" (Webster's Dictionary). True virtue is recognizing the right and the wrong and choosing the right. Morality is involved in all the decisions we make where right and wrong are involved.

The meaning of right is established by the values of the group. As a Church, we have had revealed the principles of life and salvation as set forth by the Creator himself, and we have established our value system on truth as revealed by the divine influence. From these values, our standard of morality has been developed. It is a single standard and expecting the same high performance of all members.

The moral standard of the Church encourages honesty, honor, integrity, chastity, and all things that would produce good conduct and high standards of behavior in all human relations.

The members of the Priesthood quorums should be the leaders in the development of, and the maintenance of these values in their contacts with their own families and with every member of the community. There is no immoral act that does not have a negative influence upon the actor. There are those who attempt to justify and excuse their deviation from the moral standard on the basis of a "peculiar situation" or a "current philosophy" among men. Any excuse is rationalization and has its weakening effect upon character. Priesthood quorums can be a major factor in strengthening and supporting the moral values of the Church.

(2) Health and Sanitation. Every Priesthood quorum should be interested in the conditions of sanitation and health in their community. There is good evidence to support the statement that as sewer systems have been developed in cities, communicable diseases have decreased. A contaminated water supply could be the source of infection for other life-taking diseases.

Science has provided immunization for many diseases, among

573

NOVEMBER 1964

them some of the most crippling known to man. Recently a very earnest and sincere effort was made to immunize every person in the United States against one of these cripples. This could have been a classic example of the Priesthood quorum's interest in the welfare of its members and their families, by encouraging, providing transportation, and in other ways seeing to it that this drive was one hundred per cent successful. Every effort to improve the health conditions of the community we live in should be a concern of the Priesthood quorums.

(3) Law and Order. The safety of loved ones and the security of property are largely dependent upon the attitude of the members of the community toward law and order. Respect for the rights of others is first learned in the home. Then the expressions of neighbors and friends become important factors in developing attitudes of respect for law and order.

The quorum members should be concerned about developing a sense of dedication to law and order in each member. Many people refuse to report law breakers because in doing so they may have to appear in court. This takes time, they say, and is very inconvenient. Until the breaking of the law affects them directly, they do little about it. Usually what they do then is too late.

A part of the morality of our religion is honesty and the responsibility for maintenance and observance of law and order. The maintenance of law and order is the personal obligation of every citizen. To have such an attitude

in a community would be the most effective insurance against delinquency and crime.

(4) Education. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has, from its organization, been directly and positively active in the education of its members, not only for the children, but for every member of the Church. Dr. Widtsoe pointed out that "Man is more than animal. A man holding the Priesthood can live up to his high calling only by exercising his mind, with all his might, and thereby increasing daily his intellectual vigor" (Priesthood and Church Government, page 57).

There is a rich program of education in the organization of the Church. But this is not enough. If there is any hope for man to become as God, he will have to know all things. This is a continuous task. The Church has organized schools teaching all of the sciences and encouraging the membership to become proficient in various specializations and professions. As long as a person is as studious in spiritual matters as in the secular fields, there need be no conflict. Education, together with spiritual development, can be a more effective weapon against unemployment, disease, war, or any of society's basic ills.

The intellectual development of quorum members has equal claim on quorum leadership with spiritual and temporal welfare. What is really needed is for the Church members to see all human activity in the light of divine law. Every daily act has a bearing on perfection. The design of the Creator for the perfection of mankind unfolds in the revelations of

874

LESSON DEPARTMENT

the divine will expressed in earth as in the heavens must call Church government. The basic forth the divine characteristics of function of Church government is man in overcoming selfishness "to bring to pass the immortality greed, and hate, and in controll-and eternal life of man" (Moses ing the appetites, disciplining the 1:39). mind, and in stirring man with a 
There are many areas of hu- never-ending thirst for and quest man relations that need the at- of knowledge.
tention of the organized effort of 
men holding the Priesthood of THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION
God. They include: the develop- 1. Does divine law refer only to ment of a constructive youth pro- spiritual things?
gram that will help avoid the 2. Are social problems the respon-problems of delinquency; the de- sibility of the Church organization?
velopment of an environment that 3. Does the responsibility of the will reduce the hazards of mental quorum for the welfare of its members health; the expression of a great- include the problems of community er interest in the fatherless and life?
the widow; a dynamic program in 4. What is the test of true virtue?
preparation for and in the care 5. Is observance of the law a part of old age; and many others. of the gospel of Christ?
The well-balanced life can come 
out of the successful functioning 
of the Priesthood through Doctrine and Covenants, Sections quorum organizations and oper- 29; 58.
ation. Christ's government on Widtsoe, John A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapter 5.
Talmage, James E.: Articles of Faith, page 429.
