[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 834 | Fiction | A Welcome Christmas Gift Vilate | R. McAllister]
[A Welcome Christmas Gift Vilate R. McAllister]

A Welcome

Christmas

Gift
Vilate R. McAllister

Does it embarrass you to have to dig and delve among the necessities you carry in your purse to find your pen, or your pass, or your address book, while an amused onlooker watches and waits? Then make yourself a "Tydee" to do away with such embarrassment.

For materials, you will need only some smooth cardboard, a small piece of felt yardage, black or a gay color, and sewing thread.

First decide on the size that will fit easily into a purse. (About 7x5½ inches will fit into most purses, or the Tydee can be made longer and narrower as desired.) Cut a piece of cardboard the desired shape, and try it in the purse. There should be an inch or so space around it, at least. Now lay the cardboard on the felt and cut with pinking shears two pieces (for the back and front of the Tydee) about one-half inch larger than the cardboard. Or you may fold the felt and cut double, but in this case lay the cardboard even with the folded edge, which will be the bottom.

Consider the contents of your purse, plan carefully, and decide what size pocket will fit each item. Allow enough room, so they will not fit too tightly in the pockets. Don't cut separate pockets for each of your trinkets, because you can more easily cut a strip which reaches from side to side, and divide it into pockets, as desired,

by stitching up and down between them. Mark off the width of each pocket and stitch the strip to the Tydee along the lower edge. Then divide into pockets with up and down stitching, being sure to backstitch firmly at the top, so the strip will not come loose.

Narrow compartments would accommodate such items as lipstick, chapstick, bobby pins, nail file, etc.

A wider strip could be divided to hold address book, pen, pencil, or note pad. A place for a comb can be made by sewing a 1½ inch deep strip across the top of the Tydee.

On the back of the Tydee other pockets can be stitched. Two compartments about the same size will make containers for the driver's license, personal cards, tickets, library cards, glasses, checkbook, or wallet. Decide which articles you need most frequently, because, unless your purse is large, you cannot make enough pockets for everything.

After the pocket compartments for both sides have been stitched, sew up the Tydee ¼ inch from the edge on three sides, pockets outside, of course. Insert the cardboard you used for measuring as stiffening, and sew the remaining edge. Cardboard may have to be trimmed a little, if you did not leave enough seam allowance.

Now fill the pockets, and see

834

THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT

[ILLUSTRATION: Diagram showing suggested dimensions and pocket compartments for "TYDEE" purse organizer, 7 x 5½ inches, with various compartments labeled including "CREDIT CARDS" and "NOTES", and showing items like a comb and various organizational pockets]

SUGGESTED DIMENSIONS AND POCKET COMPARTMENTS FOR
"TYDEE" PURSE ORGANIZER
7 x 5½ inches

how handy it is to have everything in order. You may attach your coin purse to the upper part of your bag lining, or to the Tydee, with a bit of ribbon, so it will be easier to find, and less easy to lose. Your handkerchief and the few other objects left out of the Tydee will not be a problem. If you have more than one purse the size of the Tydee or larger, you can change the Tydee from purse to purse with ease.

If you have a purse too shallow

for your pen and pencil to stand upright, you can sew strips near the top of your Tydee in a horizontal position, and leave them open at the end. The pen will slide easily into such a pocket, and will not get lost in the bottom of your purse.

When you get yourself supplied, remember your friends and relatives who would thank you for such a thoughtful, if inexpensive, gift.

835
