[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 863 | Lesson | Work Meeting — Teaching the Gospel in the Home — Introduction Alberta | H. Christensen]

WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home

Alberta H. Christensen

Lesson 1: Introduction

(A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965)

For Second Meeting, January 1965

Objective: To introduce the present course of study and to define its relationship to the Family Home Evening Program of the Church

THIS lesson introduces Teaching the Gospel in the Home, a Relief Society course of study designed to correlate with the current Melchizedek Priesthood quorum lessons and to support the Family Home Evening Program which is to be initiated in the Church in January 1965.

As the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons will "help the father to carry out the home program by helping him understand and carry out his duties as the spiritual leader of his family," these Relief Society lessons should enable the Latter-day Saint mother more clearly to understand her role as wife and mother, and should encourage her to support her husband in his spiritual leadership of the family. The lessons should motivate her to a full cooperation with all aspects of the home program.

In order to cooperate fully with this program, the Latter-day Saint mother must understand the place of the family in the divine "scheme of things." She must strive to establish the kind of relationship among family members that will be favorable to an acceptance of this gospel-teaching program. She should realize that her attitude will be an important influence for good or a deterrent to the progress of the work, and she, herself, must become more informed as to the principles of the restored gospel.

The purpose of these Relief Society lessons is, therefore, to help the mother become an effective instrument with her husband in teaching the gospel to the family.

How often, in past years, have we heard a Latter-day Saint mother say, "I wish my husband had heard the discussion today. Had he done so I am sure he would feel differently about a

863

NOVEMBER 1964

particular problem we have in our home." It is a realistic observation that with widely divergent points of view, the efforts of one parent often may nullify the efforts of the other parent, sometimes with great detriment to the persons involved and to the problem which needs to be resolved.

The correlation of these lessons with those being studied by the "Priesthood quorums can be of great value, since it will bring to both parents an awareness of their joint responsibility to teach their children the fundamentals of the gospel. In fact, it is hoped that through a mutual understanding of this responsibility, Latter-day Saint parents will work unitedly to meet this teaching challenge and that they will strive earnestly to bring a fullness of the blessings of the gospel into their homes.

DIVINE DIRECTIVE

And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents.

For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized.

And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands (D & C 68:25-27).

This quoted directive from our Heavenly Father clearly indicates that parents are responsible for teaching their children certain basic principles of the gospel. Several specifics, as constituting this

basic teaching, are listed: namely, the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ as the Son of the living God, and of baptism and of the gift of the Holy Ghost.

Furthermore, parents are directed to see that certain important ordinances are performed; that their children are baptized at the age of eight years and receive the "laying on of hands"; that they are taught, by their parents, to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord.

It is also important to note that this counsel is not to be considered an optional matter, merely a good idea, but that it is given as a direct commandment.

FAMILY HOME EVENING PROGRAM
AN AID TO PARENTS

Latter-day Saint families have always been encouraged by the Church to heed the divine commandment to teach their children the principles of the gospel. The Family Night was instituted as a time when families would play, study, and worship together. Many families throughout the Church have consistently set aside a weekly evening for this purpose and they will attest that its observance has been well worth the effort involved. In too many instances, however, recreational activities have been emphasized to the exclusion of gospel study.

Many parents, no doubt, may feel inadequate and unprepared to teach gospel doctrines to their children, and are inclined to leave all religious instruction to the auxiliary organizations. The Lord would not have given this responsibility to parents, however, had he not decreed that this

864

LESSON DEPARTMENT

important function should be carried out by them. Relief Society members have studied the scriptures over the years and are in an advantageous position to support their husbands in this home gospel teaching.

Formal training is not necessary in order to teach effectively the basic doctrines of the Church, but faith and a desire to study and to understand the principles of the gospel are definitely needed.

To assist parents in carrying out the responsibility given them by the Lord, the leaders of the Church through inspiration have developed the home program which is a Priesthood administrative responsibility.

FAMILY HOME EVENING PROGRAM

The Family Home Evening Program, will involve every member of the Church, for its fundamental concern is that every Church member be more fully instructed in Church doctrine. "Therefore, every family unit, however composed, should participate in the instruction program." Couples without children, a single person living alone, roommates, as well as families, can all benefit from the newly instituted program. The lessons will include material adapted to the particular needs of special types of families, where such adaptation is necessary. An instruction period, similar to that planned for the family night, is to be held.

In addition to the gospel lessons, the manual gives suggestions for family activities which should set a general climate for

the home throughout the month. There are many avenues through which gospel instruction may be made a part of family living. Gospel truths and ideals can become a vital factor in shaping young lives where parents are aware of the many possibilities within their particular sphere of influence and jurisdiction. Various activities which bring families together in work or play or engage in creative projects, will be encouraged. It is necessary that the family also read and discuss the scriptures. A set of the standard works of the Church should be found in every home, and parents can plan to give them as gifts to their children on special occasions. Every member should have a set of the standard works.

FAMILY HOME EVENING PROGRAM MANUAL

Each year the lessons in the Family Home Evening Program manual will consider fundamental principles of the gospel and they will deal with four universal concerns to the Latter-day Saints. The emphasis will be placed upon application of the truths in these universals. Lessons prepared for Priesthood Quorums and Relief Society will likewise emphasize the importance of translating the gospel teachings into action. The relationship of the individual to his family, to others, and to the community will be emphasized. This year the following relationships will be stressed:
1. My relationship with my Heavenly Father.
2. My relationship with the Savior.
3. My relationship with the Holy Ghost.

865

NOVEMBER 1964

4. My relationship with the Restored Church.
Although parents carry the responsibility to teach their children, the children also should participate in presenting lesson materials and should be encouraged to enter actively into the discussion.

It is expected that the Family Home Evening Program will become the basic teaching program for the members of the Church. All other Church lesson materials will be written to support, supplement, and complement the home lessons (Lesson 1, Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons, 1965).

CONCLUSION

The program of Relief Society is and always has been centered in the home. It endeavors through its varied courses of study and activities, to assist Latter-day Saint women to become better wives and better mothers.

As Relief Society sisters contemplate the wisdom and the vast potential influence of this new program, they will welcome the opportunity to be a part of it. They will find in the lessons and in the Family Home Evening Program manual, encouragement and reinforcement for their inherent and sacred responsibility.

THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION

1. What can a mother do to establish a home atmosphere which will promote an acceptance of this program?

2. How can parents arrange a home evening which will be inviting to the teenage members of the family?

3. Why are parents inclined to leave gospel instruction of their children to the Primary, Sunday School, or M.I.A.?

4. What evidence can you give that there is need for more religious guidance in the home?

5. Discuss the merit of the Family Home Evening Program for families where there are no children.
