[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 847 | Fiction | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]

Notes FROM THE FIELD

Relief Society Activities

Directions for Submitting Notes From the Field

THE Notes From the Field section of The Relief Society Magazine presents through pictures and descriptive paragraphs the varied group activities and accomplishments of Relief Society organizations in the stakes and missions of the Church. All material for this department should be addressed to the Editorial Department of The Relief Society Magazine, and be submitted by stake Relief Society presidents or mission supervisors or presidents. Due to space restrictions, not more than one picture from a stake or mission can be presented during a calendar year. Pictures of an individual cannot be used in this department.

Due to the considerable duplication of some special aspects of Relief Society work in the material submitted by stakes and missions, the General Board reserves the right to select pictures which represent a variety of interests.

Time of Submission

The picture, with complete information, should be submitted as soon after the event as possible, but cannot be used in the Magazine if it is received later than two months after the event.

Information to Be Included

The date of the event should be listed, and the names of Relief Society officers and others who have fulfilled special assignments with reference to the function or event should be listed. A woman's given name and her last name should be used, not her husband's given name (i.e., Ellen Jackson, not Sister Fred Jackson).

In the case of a Singing Mothers group, the names of the chorister and the accompanists, as well as stake and ward officers present, should be given. Do not list more than fifteen names for any one picture. The identifications should read from left to right. No information except the name of the stake or mission written lightly so as not to deface the picture should be given on the back of the picture. Additional information may be included in the letter of submittal or written on a separate page.

Preparations for Taking Picture

It is suggested that wherever possible a professional photographer be engaged to take the picture. In arranging the group to have the picture taken, be sure that all the faces are visible. Seat the sisters in short rows, so that the faces will be visible. Where handwork or food is displayed, special attention in arranging the background will be helpful, as light-colored articles will not show up well against a light background.

847

NOVEMBER 1964

Puget Sound Stake (Washington) Conducts "Friendship Fair"
May 22, 1964

This display of lovely quilts and other articles of handicraft from the Bremerton Second Ward, is representative of the many booths and displays which made this "Fair" an outstanding event, long to be remembered in Puget Sound Stake.

Ethel B. Whiting, President, Puget Sound Stake Relief Society, reports: "We sent out and personally distributed 1,000 invitations, not just in Tacoma, but all over the stake, with the help of the presidents and visiting teachers. We had a fifty-minute program at one o'clock in the afternoon, and repeated it at seven o'clock in the evening, with a member of the stake presidency speaking at both programs. A group of fifty Singing Mothers from six wards sang 'Why a Singing Mother Sings' and 'Beside Still Waters.' A panel of four sisters described Relief Society in an appealing and instructive way by means of a question and answer demonstration. The dramatization was written by Violet Nerdin, stake social science class leader.

"The cultural hall was beautifully decorated with ferns and spring flowers to represent a garden path. The booths were arranged around the hall, and work displays were placed on tables on the stage, with others below the stage. Two sisters demonstrated cake making at one table, and two more showed how to make gifts out of felt from simple patterns. Beautiful original oil paintings and pastels brought many comments. The handwork was varied and outstanding. In the patio, small tables, covered with blue and gold cloths, were grouped. Two large serving tables were arranged most attractively with punch, cookies, open-faced sandwiches, and fruit breads. There were about 350 in attendance."

Mount Graham Stake, Lordsburg Ward (New Mexico) Relief Society Honors First Executive Officers, May 5, 1964

Front row, seated, left to right: Lillie May Malone, First Counselor; Mabel A. Lines, President; Edith B. Bradberry, Second Counselor; Fannie A. Hill, Secretary-Treasurer.

Back row, standing, left to right, present officers: Helen G. Richins, First Counselor; Betty Joe B. Farnsworth, President; Maxene R. Jones, Second Counselor.

Sister Hill, in the front row, is presently serving as secretary-treasurer. Millie Kelly, President, Mount Graham Stake Relief Society, reports: "This special event honored the first executive officers and also commemorated the thirty-ninth birthday of the Lordsburg Relief Society, which was organized May 5, 1925. This was the first time these four sisters had been together since March 1926. What a wonderful reunion!

"The program, including a short history of the time these four women served together, was presented by Ruth B. Barnes of Safford, Arizona. A song 'Teach Me, Lord,' was beautifully rendered by the Singing Mothers, and a poem composed by Bishop Allen A. Hill was read by him. A skit 'Ye Are on the Lord's Errand' was presented by Helen G. Richins, Grace T. Wright, Louise K. Lytle, Lola D. Richardson, June H. Hill, Elna M. Pace, with Ora P. Nelson at the piano.

"Another highlight of the evening was the reviewing of a book on the history of the Lordsburg Relief Society since its organization, complete with pictures of every executive officer, and all other officers and class leaders, except eleven. Several group pictures were also shown. The material was collected and compiled by Fannie A. Hill. Stake Relief Society President Millie Kelly and three other members of the board were present. Refreshments of dainty homemade cookies, decorated mints, frozen banana punch, and nuts were served."

848

NOTES FROM THE FIELD

[PHOTOGRAPH]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

849

NOVEMBER 1964

West Pocatello Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference, January 25, 1964

At the right in the front row: Cleone Jones, chorister (in dark dress); at the right in the fourth row, at the piano (in dark dress): Sarah Stolworthy, organist.

Margaret L. Jones, President, West Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports that 112 Singing Mothers participated in this chorus.

Andes Mission (South America) First Relief Society Presidency Organized February 1964

Left to right: Clara Vasques, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary Davidson, work meeting leader; Dina Santillan, Work Director Counselor; Lilly Rodriguez, President; Edith Barrani, Education Counselor.

Sister Rodriguez reports: "The Andes Mission is proud to announce the organization of its first mission Relief Society presidency. The new presidency, composed of local members, is responsible for directing the twenty-six organizations throughout Peru. The Church is growing rapidly in Peru, and Relief Society now has 407 members. As a new presidency, we are delighted to have our own local organization and are very pleased with the response of our members.

"The convention of the Relief Society of the Andes Mission was held the 11th-12th of February, 1964, in the mission home. There were thirty-one sisters in attendance, representing the districts and independent branches. The discussion presented during the first session was on visual aids to help the sisters develop their lessons. During the second session the lessons for the new year were presented, after which a workshop was held, where each sister was able to present, or to help present a two-and-a-half-minute talk, using visual aids. The new literature lessons were presented by Yolanda Abregu, who wrote the lessons, which are on the Peruvian literature. The third session was a planned workday meeting. For the fashion show in the evening, the local sisters and their children modeled clothing that could be made in work meetings, introducing skirts and shirts with the Inca motif. During the last session discussions were presented for the presidents and secretaries separately. The concluding session was an inspirational testimony meeting in which the spiritual feeling among the sisters was bonded."

Sister Vivian W. Nicolaysen is Relief Society supervisor of the Andes Mission.

Idaho Stake Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Conference March 8, 1964

Standing, back to the piano (in black dresses): chorister Helen Thomas and organist Karma Kunz; at the right (in dark dresses): Thelma B. Tovey of the General Board of the Primary Association and Irene W. Buehner of the General Board of Relief Society; standing back of Sister Tovey and Sister Buehner is Arlene T. Torgesen, President, Idaho Stake Relief Society.

Sister Torgesen reports: "All seven wards of our stake are represented in this group and nine members of the stake presidency and board. This picture was taken after our stake conference in March. The music by these lovely singers added much to the beauty and spirituality of the meetings. They are invited to sing many times as ward groups and they sang at the Relief Society closing social and friendship day of Idaho Stake, in June 1964."

850

NOTES FROM THE FIELD

[PHOTOGRAPH - Large group photo of women in white blouses and dark skirts arranged in rows]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Five women standing together outdoors in front of a building with shuttered windows]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Large group photo of women arranged in rows, appears to be in an auditorium or meeting hall setting]

851

NOVEMBER 1964

Grand Junction Stake (Colorado) Relief Society Presents "A Festival of Arts"
April 10, 1964

Betty Christensen and Eudona Ficklin, left to right, are seen displaying a picture frame painted white, with flowers arranged on a blue velvet background. A tiered satin fruit arrangement and a "marble" centerpiece are also shown in the picture.

Josephine Prinster, President, Grand Junction Stake Relief Society, reports: "On April 10, 1964, the Grand Junction Stake Relief Society presented 'A Festival of Arts,' culminating approximately a year's efforts in handiwork by the sisters of the stake. Work meeting leader Eudona Ficklin and Second Counselor Betty Christensen were responsible for spearheading this project. Over one thousand members and guests thrilled with us as they viewed the festival. The objective was to introduce the purpose and activities of Relief Society to our friends and neighbors through our theme 'Nothing to sell — just something to share.'

"The members of the stake Relief Society board welcomed the guests as they entered the cultural hall and explained the 'Relief Society Picture,' which was portrayed by displays from each department in large gold frames. Attractively arranged Relief Society Magazines were presented to interested guests.

"Lavender, turquoise, and rose canopied booths captured the eye in a beautiful garden scene, where hundreds of beautiful displays of handiwork were proudly shown. Some of the booths were: 'Stitches of Love' (the clothing display); 'We Did It Over' (new things from old); 'A Hook, a Needle, and a Spool of Thread' (the fancywork booth); 'The Staff of Life' (bakery booth); 'The Cover-Ups' (aprons, of course); 'The Bedtime Story' (quilts and pillows). Then there were 'The Knit Shop' and 'Talent in Action.' A garden scene was the setting for two lovely mannequins, modeling hand-sewed wedding gowns, and displaying a hand-decorated wedding cake.

"To further interest our guests were two authentic and exquisite foreign cookery scenes entitled 'Under the Yum-Yum Tree.' These featured a Hawaiian luau, complete with grass shack and pretty maidens who gave away delicious tidbits; and a Japanese scene, with blossoming cherry trees and a lovely lady cooking sukiyaki on a hibachi.

"We feel that the Lord certainly blessed us in that so many hearts were stirred — not only in admiration for the creative beauty they saw, but with a desire to know more about the gospel, which is responsible for our wonderful Priesthood-inspired Relief Society."

Midvale Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, May 2-3, 1964

Stake chorister Mellisa Beckstead (in white dress) is seated at the right in the front row; the fourth sister at the right of the pulpit is chorister Maxine Allmendinger; and the third sister is Marguerite Wright, President, Midvale Stake Relief Society; standing in the back row at the left is First Counselor Laura Tripp.

Sister Wright reports: "Each month at Relief Society leadership meeting a chorus from one of the wards has furnished special music. Our Cumorah (Spanish) Branch sang in Spanish when they furnished the musical number."

852

NOTES FROM THE FIELD

[PHOTOGRAPH: Two women standing beside a floral arrangement display, one in a dark dress on the left, one wearing glasses and a patterned dress on the right]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Large group photograph of women in white clothing arranged in rows]

853

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Bakersfield Stake (California) Presents "Treasures of the Home"
at Social, May 2, 1964

Standing, left to right, officers of the Taft Ward Relief Society: Joyce Stuker, First Counselor; Maralyn Wood, President; Roberta Booth, Second Counselor; Irene Hoff, Secretary.

On the front edge of the table, left to right, are shown a liquid embroidery picture, the Wise Men, a painted perpetual calendar, and a painted tablecloth. On the tabletop are painted dish towels, a soap swan, marble jewelry, knitted slippers, a plaque made of ribbon flowers, a chart for herbs, a scrapbook for use in the nursery, made from an old Christmas card album, as well as many other attractive handwork items. Several exquisitely made quilts are displayed in the background.

Beryl Lewis, President, Bakersfield Stake Relief Society, reports this delightful and rewarding event: "We first met in the chapel of our stake center at two o'clock in the afternoon, where a brief introduction to Relief Society was presented by LaVerle Goss, Second Counselor in Bakersfield Stake Relief Society, who conducted and planned the event. Recognition of the first Relief Society president in the stake, Sister Millicent Smith, was made. She is now ninety-seven years of age and could not be present as she was recovering from a broken hip. A bouquet of flowers was sent to her.

"The Singing Mothers sang two numbers, and the drama 'Creation's Masterpiece,' by Leah Frandsen of Glendale Stake was presented. Kay Bell, Bakersfield Stake literature class leader, directed the drama. Some of the sisters represented visiting teachers from all over the world. After the inspiring program, the guests were invited into the cultural hall, where the wards and branches of the stake had prepared displays of the articles made in their work meetings. . . . Each ward and branch also had a demonstration of some home craft or art. We had rug making, quilt blocking, flower arranging, foreign foods, candy mints, swan soap, Bulgar wheat and its uses, seed pictures, and many other special features. Sara Eagleston, stake work meeting leader, demonstrated ribbon chrysanthemums, and Maude Hutchison of the stake board demonstrated magazine binding.

854

Lesson Department

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman holding a book with one hand raised]
