[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 831 | Fiction | Special Rolls for Christmas | Melba Christensen]
[Special Rolls for Christmas Melba Christensen]

Special Rolls for Christmas

Melba Christensen

BASIC SWEET DOUGH

1 cake compressed yeast                1 tsp. salt
1 c. milk or ¼ c. powdered milk plus   ¼ c. granulated sugar
    1 c. water                         ¼ c. shortening
2 eggs                                 4 c. (about) enriched flour (sifted)

1. Dissolve yeast in milk which has been scalded and cooled to lukewarm.
2. Add eggs, salt, sugar, shortening and 2 c. flour; beat until it springs back from spoon, add 1 c. more flour; mix well and turn out on lightly floured board. Knead until smooth and elastic, or until bubbles form on smooth side.
3. Let rise until double in bulk in a greased bowl covered with a damp towel in a warm place (85° to 90°F). Dough can be shaped after one rising or punched down for second rising.
4. Turn out on lightly floured canvas or cloth, and knead in as much of the remaining flour as may seem necessary. Shape into desired roll shapes.
5. Bake rolls without filling at 425°F. for 8-10 minutes. Filled rolls should be baked at 375° for 25-30 minutes.

FILLING FOR CHRISTMAS TREE

Boil together for 1 minute:

2 c. apples, finely chopped           ½ tsp. salt
1 c. raisins, ground                  ½ tsp. cinnamon
1 c. brown sugar

831

NOVEMBER 1964

1. Roll out ½ recipe of Basic Sweet Dough which is ready for shaping on lightly floured board or cloth into rectangle about 12 x 16 inches. Gently transfer to greased cookie sheet so that the length of dough goes across width of cookie sheet.

2. Brush center of rectangle with melted butter; sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Spread center of rectangle with filling.

3. Bring upper corners of dough down to meet the center of the lower edge. You will have "extra" dough at the base of tree. Roll vertical edges of center back and clip rolled edges. Gently stretch tree so that it fills cookie sheet.

4. Trim dough from lower edge saving half for trunk. Roll dough to form trunk. Clip the outside edges of tree with long diagonal cuts. Twist to form branches.

5. Cover with a damp cloth and let rise in a warm place until double in size and bake at 375°F. about 20-30 minutes. When baked, frost with Snowtop Frosting. Garnish with cherries, citron, and nuts.

FRENCH CHRISTMAS LACE

Make Basic Sweet Dough. Let rise twice and during second rising prepare the filling.

FILLING: Boil together for one minute:
2 c. apples, finely chopped      ½ tsp. salt
1 c. raisins, ground             ½ tsp. cinnamon, ground
1 c. dark brown sugar,
    firmly packed

1. Cool. Then roll out ¼ of Basic Sweet Dough into 14 x 8 inches. Gently transfer to greased cookie sheet.

2. Spread filling down center in strip about 4" wide. At each side of filling make cuts 2" apart, making cuts 2" long into dough. This makes 7 strips on each side.

3. Cross alternate strips across center filled section. On last strips, tuck under and seal. Cover with damp cloth and let rise until double in bulk. Bake 30-35 minutes at 375°F. Frost with Snowtop Frosting. Garnish with Marachino cherries, nuts, and green and red citron.

CROWN ROLLS

½ recipe of Basic Sweet Dough     1 tsp. cinnamon, ground
¼ c. melted shortening           ½ c. nuts, finely chopped
¾ c. brown sugar,                    pecan halves
    firmly packed                     seedless raisins

1. Use ½ recipe of Basic Sweet Dough. When dough is double in bulk, punch down.

2. Shape dough into walnut size balls. Dip balls in melted shortening and roll in mixture of brown sugar, cinnamon, and chopped nuts.

832

THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT

3. Arrange layer of balls in greased 9" tube pan; sprinkle with pecan halves and raisins.
4. Fill bottom of pan, then add another layer of balls until you have the pan one half full, and sprinkle with more pecan halves.
5. Cover with damp cloth and let rise to rim of pan (angel food cake tin) about 40-50 minutes.
6. Bake at 375°F. until browned, about 35 minutes. Turn out of pan immediately and cool on cake rack. Serve hot or cold.

SWEDISH TEA RING

Roll out ½ recipe of Basic Dough about 16" x 12". Spread with butter, then with citrus filling. Roll up like jelly roll and place on greased cookie sheet in a circle, then cut with scissors and twist.

Citrus Filling — Mix together:
                grated rind of 3 oranges
                grated rind of one grapefruit
                1 c. granulated sugar

CINNAMON ROLLS — BEAR CLAWS — BUTTERFLIES

Roll out dough, brush with butter, shake on sugar and cinnamon and a handful of raisins, roll up and seal edges.
Butter a string and put under roll, cross, and pull. This cuts without mashing.
To make butterflies, cut cinnamon rolls about 2", then take a wooden spoon handle and press center down.
Bear claws, cut 3 slits.

DATE-NUT FILLING

1-1/3 c. pitted dates (finely cut)        1/2 c. water
1/2 c. granulated sugar                   1/3 c. walnuts, chopped

1. Add water, sugar, and dates; cook over low heat until completely blended and thickened.
2. Add nuts. Cool. Use as spread on rolled dough.

GLAZES

To glaze the top of breads or rolls, use either the egg white or yolk with a teaspoon of water added. The whole egg may be beaten slightly and used also. Use a pastry brush to apply just before rolls are placed in the oven.

SNOWTOP FROSTING

½ c. powdered sugar                       ¼ tsp. extract
2 tsp. water

Mix into smooth paste.

833
