[Vol51 | November 1964 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Lesson | Title: 871 Social Science — Priesthood Function and the Community Ariel S. Ballif]
871      Social  Science  —   Priesthood   Function  and  the  Community       Ariel  S.  Ballif 
Poetry 
801      Sound  of  Storm  and  Praise  —  Frontispiece       Margery  S.  Stewart 
Snow  to  Snow,  by  Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard,  809;  Signature  of  Faith,  by  Enola  Chamberlin, 
812;  Grace  for  God's  Bounty,  by  Ethel  Jacobson,  830;  Time,  by  Evelyn  Fjeldsted,  846; 
Undefeated,  by  Ruth  H.  Chadwick,  866;  Our  Garden  Gate,  by  Rowena  Jensen  Bills,  875;  First 
Grand  Addition,  by  Leora  Larsen,  876;  Hold  Back  This  Autumn,  by  Linnie  F.  Robinson,  876; 
Brief  Hour,  by  Dorothy  J.  Roberts,  876;  Another  Season,  by  Christie  Lund  Coles,  878;  De- 
sign, by  Vesta  N.   Fairbairn,  879. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  ©  1964  by 
the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Associotion.  Editorial  end  Business  Office:  76  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84111;  Phone  EMpire 
4-2511;  Subscriptions  2642;  Editorial  Dept.  2654.  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  yeor;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year;  20c  o  copy,  payable  in  ad- 
vance. The  Mogozine  is  not  sent  offer  subscription  expires.  No  back  numbers  con  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies 
will  be  missed.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  ond  new  address.  Entered  os  second-closs  matter  February  18,  1914, 
at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided 
for  in  section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is 
enclosed.     Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retoined  for  six  months  only.     The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  monuscripts.

HOME 
The  Child 
Training  Center 
President  Belle  S.  Spafford 
[Address  Delivered  at  the  General 
Session  of  the  Relief  Society  Annual 
^  General  Conference,  September  30,  1964] 
"The  wisdom  of  the  ages"  is  a 
phrase  frequently  used,  implying 
that  the  experiences  of  eons  of 
time  have  proved  certain  state- 
ments to  be  true  and  certain 
courses  of  action  to  be  judicious, 
prudent,  sensible,  and  good.  In 
the  history  of  the  world,  perhaps 
none  other,  save  the  Master  him- 
self, is  so  well  known  for  his  wis- 
dom as  is  King  Solomon  who 
reigned  over  ancient  Israel.  Scrip- 
ture records  that  in  Gibeon  the 
Lord  appeared  in  a  dream  by 
night  to  Solomon  who  had  suc- 
ceeded King  David  as  ruler  of 
Israel,  and  God  said,  "Ask  what 
I  shall  give  thee?"  and  Solomon 
replied: 
Give  thy  servant  therefore  an  un- 
derstanding heart  to  judge  thy  people, 
that  I  may  discern  between  good  and 
bad.  .  .  .  And  the  speech  pleased  the 
Lord  that  Solomon  had  asked  this 
thing.  And  God  said  unto  him.  Be- 
cause thou  hast  asked  this  thing  and 
hast  not  asked  for  thyself  long  life; 
neither  hast  asked  riches  for  thyself, 
nor  hast  asked  the  life  of  thine  ene- 
mies; but  has  asked  for  thyself  under- 
standing to  discern  judgment;  Behold 
I  have  done  according  to  thy  word: 
lo,  I  have  given  thee  a  wise  and  an 
understanding  heart;  so  that  there 
hath  been  none  like  thee  before  thee, 
neither  after  thee  shall  any  arise  like 
unto  thee  (I  Kings  3:5,  9-12). 
The  importance  of  an  under- 
standing heart  for  those  who 
would  govern  others,  and  the  wise 
sayings  of  King  Solomon  consti- 
tute an  important  part  of  the 
wisdom  of  the  ages.  Among  the 
wisdom  words  of  Solomon  worthy 
of  contemplation  by  mothers  of 
the  Church  today  are  these: 
"Train  up  a  child  in  the  way  he 
should  go:  and  when  he  is  old,  he 
will  not  depart  from  it"  (Prov- 
erbs 22:6). 
Today  social  life  has  be- 
come complex  and  social  ills  pro- 
nounced. Mothers  sometimes 
wonder  if  indeed  it  is  possible  to 
rear  the  child  so  as  to  assure  the 
righteousness  of  the  man  of  ma- 
turity. 
Ever  before  us  are  unsettling, 
even  frightening  reports  and  ac- 
804

HOME— THE   CHILD  TRAINING  CENTER 
counts  of  temptations  and  exist- 
ing evils  which  beset  the  paths  of 
boys  and  girls.  All  too  many 
children  are  being  caught  in  the 
web  of  destruction. 
In  view  of  existing  conditions, 
social  studies  and  the  develop- 
ment of  social  welfare  programs 
are  rapidly  increasing,  with  em- 
phasis being  placed  on  remedial 
measures  and  social  case  work 
techniques  to  deal  effectively  with 
problems.  The  remedial  meas- 
ures must  be  administered,  in 
large  measure,  by  social  welfare 
institutions.  Valuable  as  these 
may  be  in  the  treatment  process 
when  a  child  has  fallen  by  the 
wayside,  is  not  the  better  ap- 
proach the  preventive  measure 
through  early  training  in  the 
home  by  wise  and  righteous  par- 
ents? 
Church  leaders  have  long 
taught  us  that  the  character  of 
our  homes  and  the  teaching  we 
give  our  little  ones  play  a  de- 
termining role  in  the  character 
and  behavior  of  the  adolescent 
child  and,  later,  in  the  life  of  the 
child  grown  to  manhood  or 
womanhood.  From  time  to  time 
we  hear  an  echo  of  this  from 
those  whom  the  world  regards  as 
authorities.  In  the  Deseret  News 
of  August  19  there  appeared  a 
report  of  a  paper  presented  at 
the  First  International  Congress 
of  Social  Psychiatry  in  which  Dr. 
Eleanor  Glueck  of  Harvard  Law 
School,  an  eminent  criminologist, 
said  the  mother  plays  a  deter- 
mining role  in  whether  a  child  is 
to  become  a  delinquent  and  later, 
perhaps,  a  criminal.  Dr.  Glueck 
declared  the  three  vital  factors 
which  determine  the  mother's  in- 
fluence on  the  child  are  the 
amount  of  supervision  given,  the 
amount  of  discipline  she  is  able 
to  infuse,  and  the  amount  of  co- 
hesion she  is  able  to  bring  into 
existence  in  the  family. 
The  Church  gives  us  the  broad- 
er view,  the  greater  concept  of 
our  responsibility  to  our  children. 
It  gives  to  us  first  an  understand- 
ing of  what  was  meant  by  Solo- 
mon when  he  said,  "Train  up  a 
child  in  the  way  he  should  go." 
The  "way  he  should  go"  is  made 
unmistakably  clear.  The  Church 
further  gives  us  specific  counsel 
as  to  how  to  guide  him  along  the 
way  through  our  day-by-day 
home  teachings;  then  it  under- 
girds  us  with  marvelous  Priest- 
hood quorum  and  auxiliary  pro- 
grams. 
While,  through  unfortunate 
circumstances  or  perhaps  unju- 
dicious  action  on  the  part  of 
parents,  a  child  may  fail  to  re- 
ceive the  firm  and  wise  direction 
required  to  avoid  the  pitfalls  of 
life,  I  believe  our  Church  has  a 
vast  majority  of  competent,  suc- 
cessful mothers,  and  our  young 
people,  generally  speaking,  merit 
our  confidence.  At  times,  even