[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 861 | Lesson | Visiting C hTreiascthineer HM.e s Rsoabgien s o—n "Watch, for the Adversary Spreadeth His Dominions" | ]
[Visiting C hTreiascthineer HM.e s Rsoabgien s o—n "Watch, for the Adversary Spreadeth His Dominions"]

for the Adversary Spreadeth His Dominions"
(D&C 82:5).

For First Meeting, February 1965

Objective: To emphasize the fact that Satan is working exceedingly hard to capture men's souls and that we must be eternally on guard.

Since the war in heaven, when Satan and his hosts were cast out, their evil influence has struggled continuously to capture men's souls and to thwart the Lord's work. Evil has always been in the world but the adversary has been particularly aggressive in attempting to spread his dominion during those periods when the Priesthood has been on the earth. This is undoubtedly why, since the restoration of the gospel, we have been repeatedly warned to watch and be alert to the temptations of the evil one. Never during the history of the world has our Father in heaven's kingdom progressed more rapidly. Consequently, probably more than at any other time in history, the adversary has marshalled his forces to obstruct it.

Our modern lives are crowded with temptations. Pressures are brought to bear upon us from all directions — the advertisements we read, the radio, television, movies, books, and plays — all of these, at times, in a variety of ways, tempt us to lower the quality of our morals and to give in a little here and there on our standards and principles.

These are the devious ways the adversary employs to ensnare us little by little until he has us completely in his power. These are the little temptations which are made so enticing and attractive and seem so harmless in and of themselves. These are probably the things about which the prophet Nephi warned us when he said that in latter days, there would be many who would say:

Eat, drink, and be merry; nevertheless, fear God — he will justify in committing a little sin; yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God (2 Nephi 28:8).

861

NOVEMBER 1964

The devil has always worked thus. He knows that if he can encourage us to take a few "little steps" in his direction, he may ensnare us and lead us the whole way. This is why we must be eternally vigilant against the temptations of such things as haughtiness, envy and pride, of giving vent to uncontrolled irritations or angers, of succumbing to the demoralizing effects of selfishness and jealousy. We should avoid the inhibiting effects of discouragement and doubt and should cleanse our minds and attitudes from fault-finding and contention. These are some of the so-called "little," easy-to-slip-into character weaknesses which dull the conscience and make it easier to yield to the bigger things that, eventually, will lead us away from the Spirit of our Father in heaven.

In our vigilance against enticements of the adversary, let's be aware of our own individual weaknesses, recognizing that the evil one seeks to tempt us where we are most vulnerable.

Despite the buffetings of Satan and the temptations he throws in our paths, we should remember that these are a part of the Lord's plan for our growth and development. "Temptation, is an important factor in man's probation; for by resisting it, the soul is developed and made stronger" (Whitney, Orson F.: Saturday Night Thoughts, page 310).

In teaching his sons, the prophet Lehi explained this eternal principle when he said:

... for it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so ... righteousness could not be brought to pass ... if ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness. And if there be no righteousness there be no happiness ... Wherefore, man could not act for himself save it should be that he was enticed by the one or the other (2 Nephi 2:11, 13, 16).

How can we fortify ourselves so that we can clearly distinguish good from evil and avoid being enticed by evil influences? The Book of Mormon prophet Mormon told us how we might know good from evil when he said:

... the Spirit of Christ is given to every man, that he may know good from evil; wherefore, I show unto you the way to judge; for every thing which inviteth to do good, and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the power and gift of Christ; wherefore ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of God. But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ ... and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil (Moroni 7:16-17).

President Brigham Young told us how we could overcome evil when he said, "When temptations come to you, be humble and faithful, and determined that you will overcome, and you will receive a deliverance" (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 82). The great prophet Alma also instructed, "humble yourself before the Lord, and call on his holy name, and watch and pray continually, that ye may not be tempted above that which ye can bear" (Alma 13:28).

Let us heed the warnings of the Lord and his servants and continually be on guard, watching, "for the adversary spreadeth his dominion."

862
