EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WOMEN voters will not fail, we trust, to cast
their vote on Tuesday, November 2nd, election
day for the candidate of the People’s Party to the
Fiftieth Congress, the Hon. John T. Caine, who
has served the people faithfully in the past, and
deserves an overwhelming vote.
	To encourage the patrons of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, we have decided to give to each sub-
scriber of the paper, at Christmas time, a picture,
which will be a suitable size for framing, of one
of the most notable women of the Church—Lucy
Smith, the mother of the Prophet Joseph. It is
said by those who were personally scquainted
with the lady, to be an excellent likeness.
	R. S. REPORTS of Utah and Box Elder Confer-
ences, poems and other articles have been crowded


out to make room for the lecture on “Poets and
Poetry,” but we trust the readers of the EXPON-
ENT will be gratified in its perusal, and that it will
be suggestive to the young people, awaken
intellectual search, and stimulate progress in this
department of fine arts.
	THE effort being made by the anti-Mormons to
establish an Industrial Home for women and
children who are, as they think, likely to be left
destitute and unprotected on account of the en-
forcement of the Edmunds law, will not receive the
patronage of plural wives; they are too firmly es-
tablished in their principles to accept a home which
would place them under such conditions as they
must endorse in order to secure the proffered aid.
	“THE CHURCH CHRONOLOGY,” or “A Record
of Important Events,” recently issued, was com-
piled and prepared for publication by Elder An-
drew Jensen, Editor af the “Historical Record,”
a monthly periodical, and is in itself a supplement
to that magazine. It is a book of 112 pages. The
price, bound in cloth, is $1, pamphlet form, 75 cts.
It will be very useful as a book of reference, and
the people will find it well worth the money. The
compiler has evidently taken great pains to collect
items and facts, and has so arranged them that it
is easy to turn to any particular item wanted very
quickly. Bro. Jensen calls it “a labor of love” in
his preface, and we can readily comprehend him,
knowing how interesting and absorbing are the
incidents connected with the history of the Church
to any true Latter-day Saint. It is a mental labor,
and involving physical as well, to do literary work
of this kind, whatever may be the idea of those
who peruse such books. The index is arranged
alphabetically, and the matter is ingeniously made
up in years, beginning with the birth of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, in 1805. From that date
to the close of the year 1884,the author has sought
to specify the most important events that have
transpired in the history of the Church. One may
not at a glance through the book, comprehend the
amount of thought and study it has required to
bring all this into shape and make it presentable
and readable. To those who wish to obtain a
large number of facts without searching papers
through, or reading the whole compiled histories
and biographies, it will certainly be valuable. It
will be a good book for strangers and inquirers, as
well as for our own people. We hope Bro. Jen-
sen will receive the patronage this little work de-
serves in its sale and circulation. We have not
had time to go through it carefully, but have
looked it over, and feel pleased that such a work
has been undertaken by one who seems to possess
ability and talent in this direction, as well as
energy and perseverance to make a success of
the undertaking.


