DECLARATION OF FACTS AND PRINCIPLES:
	First—We believe that the protection of life
and liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, should
be the object of free government; that the Con-
stitution of the United States represents the high-
est form of political government yet devised, and
that under its provisions the greatest possible
liberty consistent with safety is guaranteed to
every citizen.

[Column 2]

	Second—We believe that free government can
only exist where the people governed exercise the
unrestrained right to choose their own officers;
and that the doctrine that citizens resident in the
Territories have no political rights inherent in
themselves is at variance with the spirit and
genius of our great charter, the Constitution, and
is repugnant to democratic principles and the
liberal spirit of the age.
	Third—We believe that any party or faction of
a political community that seeks to obtain politi-
cal control by any other means than the ability to
cast a majority of votes into the ballot box, is
guilty of the grossest of political crimes, and
should be branded as an enemy to human free-
dom.
	Fourth—We believe that interpretation of the
political and legal rights of the citizens under the
Constitution should be made in courts free from
local or general prejudice, and that justice should
be evenly administered to every person, regard-
less of the class to which he belongs.
	Fifth—We believe that the right of trial by a
fair and impartial jury is one of the strong bul-
warks of liberty, and the trial of any one by a jury
who have strong prejudices against the accused is
a violation of well established principles and is a
dangerous precedent which we solemnly de-
nounce.
	Sixth—Any effort of the government to manage
church property is a violation of the spirit of the
first article of the amendments to the Constitution.
and is practically a union of church and state.
And we denounce any attempt of the church to
dominate the state, or the state to dominate the
church as being dangerous to the liberty of
the citizen. We also assert that any proposition
looking to the disfranchisement of a class of citi-
zens because of their belief in or adherence to any
religious faith in direct contravention of the rights
guaranteed by the Constitution in regard to religi-
ous liberty, and seeks to punish citizens for their
religious belief. Such a doctrine, when we con-
sider the difference of enlightenment of the ages,
is more infamous than the decrees of the Spanish
inquisition.
	Seventh—We declare irrevocably in favor of
woman suffrage; that the benign and purifying in-
fluence of wives and mothers may be manifest
through the laws for the protection of our home
and country.
	Eighth—We approve the administration of local
affairs so for as the people are permitted to exer-
cise the rights of self-government. We assert
that we have proven our ability to control the
business of the state economically, progressively,
and justly to every citizen. We point with pride
to the fact that the taxes in Utah are lighter than
in any other Territory. The Territory is out of
debt, and the counties are practically in the same
satisfactory condition.
	Ninth—We emphatically deny the charge of
disloyalty to the national government made
against the people of Utah. We affirm that it is
the duty of every American citizen to render obe-
dience to the Constitution of the United States,
and laws enacted in pursuance thereof. We
pledge ourselves as a party to the maintenance
and defense of constitutional principles and the
natural and inalienable rights of mankind.
	Tenth—We believe that Utah is entitled to
sovereign statehood. Her citizens have an equal
right to free government with the most favored
children of this Republic. The National Congress
is bound by every consideration of equity and
lawful precedent to remove the chains of Territori-
al bondage from this community. Our population
is nearly two hundred thousand souls, with greater
proportion of native born citizens than is pos-
sessed by many proud and worthy States of the
Union. If we can properly be kept in this en-
thrallment, a population of two millions of free-
born and law-abiding citizens can be held in simi

[Column 3]

lar subserviency. Utah has for years possessed
every requisite for statehood. The failure of
Congress to recognize this right has propagated a
hideous train of evils, from which the land can
never be freed while this political wrong continues.
	Respectfully,
		E. G. WOOLLEY,
			Chairman.

	Hon. W. W. Riter placed in nomination one of
Utah's tried and patriotic citizens, the

