TRIALS TEND TO STRENGTHEN AND
			PURIFY.
	The condition of affairs in Zion at the present
time is calculated to stir the hearts of the Lat-
ter-day Saints to their innermost depths. One
can readily say there is no parallel to the present
state of things in the history of the Church. It
is as though the people stood upon the banks of a
precipice, so near are they to an impending crisis.
And yet many are at ease in Zion, notwithstanding
the warning voice of of the heralds of salvation,
and the constant teachings and instructions that
are offered by those who are placed as guards and
protectors to the people. The rapid fulfilment of
ancient and modern prophecies is startling, and
one cannot fail to discern the signs of the usher-
ing in of the great judgments that precede the
coming of the Son of Man. Yet with all these
facts and terrors, as it were, staring them in the
face, many refuse to hearken, and are as indiffer-
ent to that which is transpiring around them as
the heathen, who know not God.
	It is indeed a time for watchfulness, diligence
and prayer; a time to labor earnestly and with
zeal in every good cause for the building up of
the kingdom of God upon the earth. There is
much real work to do in the building of Temples;
and the labor to be performed in them for the liv-
and the dead, no one can estimate. With such
responsibilities resting upon them, how can the
people give way to folly and extravagance, forget-
ting the weightier matters.
	What crowds of children and young people are
growing up in Zion; and what magnificent pros-
pects are before them, if they will only seek to
attain to the fulfilment of their destiny, and carry
out in their lives the precepts and teachings so
freely given to them. Blessings lie about them, if
they will only live so as to claim them. But the
Lord has said He will have a tried people, and
those who have set out for "the prize of the high
calling," will have to accept the bitter and the
sweet, and humble themselves sufficiently to pass
under the chastening rod of the Almighty, and
murmur not at His dispensations, but accept all in
the spirit of meekness and forbearance, knowing
that it will "work out a far more exceeding and
eternal weight of glory," than to slide along with-
out the rich experience and development that self-
sacrifice and discipline give to the character of a
Saint.
	There have been more than seven years of
prosperity and plenty for the people in these
valleys of the mountains; Zion has indeed become
strong in many respects, and the nations of the
earth have looked upon her with envy and jealousy
according to that which has been written. The
Lord has made the earth fruitful for His people,
and water has sprung up in many waste places,
and the husbandman has been amply rewarded
for his honest toil in subduing the earth, and re-
deeming it. Good and wholesome laws and regu-
lations have been laid down here in this land,
where freedom seemed indigenous to the country

[Column 2]
for with its mighty bulwarks of strong mountains
and towering hills, it seems a place of safety and
refuge for the oppressed, and to possess the very
elements of freedom and religious liberty. There
is something specially sacred associated in the
human mind with mountains. Men of God in
olden times went up into the mountains to pray
and offer sacrifices; the divine records show that
Jesus often went up into the mountains; and per-
secuted peoples, in various countries, who have
fled in times of crusades against them, have gone
into the mountains for safety, and to escape the
terrible fate of religious tyranny. The Latter-day
Saints came here that they might have religious
freedom, and they established a government in ac-
cordance with the Constitution of the United
 States, and the local political arrangements were
the best that could be, for a people settling in a
new country. But the time came when the pros-
perity and peace that had crowned the efforts of
the Saints was interrupted, and a series of trials
and difficulties have arisen, and dark clouds have
gathered thicker and heavier as time moved on-
ward, until it seems a time of peril; yet there
should be no fear; however strong the enemies of
the Saints may be, God is able to overpower them
with only a handful of the faithful. Zion must
and will be redeemed, but ere that day comes,
there may be and must be great and mighty faith
exercised by the pure in heart. The Saints have
been instructed through the Scriptures, and ser-
mons and writings of the prophets of this age,
that the severest ordeals will be required to test
the Latterday Saints, that they may be as gold
tried in the furnace. This superior strength of
character, that comes through the discipline of
suffering, is what will purify and cleanse those
who are earnestly seeking to live near to God and
to do His will, trusting in Him for support and
courage, though the way be ever so dark. The
promises of God cannot fail, and the courage born
of pain will triumph at last.

	“Heavier	the cross, the stronger faith;
		The loaded palm strikes deeper root;
	The vine-juice sweetly issueth
		When men have pressed the clustered fruit.
	And courage grows when dangers come,
	Like pearls beneath the salt sea foam.

	“Heavier the cross, the heartier prayer;
		The bruised reeds most fragrant are;
	If sky and wind were always fair
		The sailor would not watch the star;
	And David's psalms had ne'er been sung
	If grief his heart had never wrung."


