		EMILY E. BROUGH, Sec.

	The many friends of Sister Martha Sampson will be
pained to learn of her demise, which occurred on the
morning of the 16th of September last, at her residence in
Glenwood, surrounded by her family and friends. She
had arrived at the advanced age of eighty years and three
months. Sister Sampson first heard the Gospel, as re-
vealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Kirtland,
which she embraced with a joyful heart, and was
 baptized in June, 1830, a few months after the organization
of the Church; she also preached the Gospel to Orson
Hyde, who soon after was convinced of the truth. She
has to the day of her death borne a strong testimony to
the truth of the latter day work. With her family she
followed the Church to Jackson Co., Mo. Received her
inheritance with her husband. They were expelled with
the Saints from there; went to Clay Co. and were expelled
again, suffering untold misery. Followed the Church to
Nauvoo. Immigrated to the valley in 1851 and located
in Provo. Was an active member in the Relief Society
there; moved to Glenwood in 1865, where she resided un-
til the time of her death. Here, also, she was Counselor
to the President of the Relief Society. Sister Sampson
was the mother of nine children, four of whom survive
her. She had forty-nine grand children, fifty-seven great-
grandchildren, and one great-great-grandchild. She 
reared a number of her grandchildren, who were left
orphans, to be men and women. Sister Sampson was very
retiring in her habits, but she had a genial and kind heart.
When she was attacked with the illness, that ended her
earthly career, she told her granddaughter that she would
like to go to the beyond, if her Heavenly Father was will-
ing. She died with a smile on her face, telling of the
heavenly joy that filled her soul. Her remains were taken 
to the bowery. The speakers were Bishop Bell, Counselor
Heppler and Brother Ransford Colbey; they spoke words
of comfort and instruction to the sorrowing friends; also
bearing a strong testimony to the faithfulness and integrity
of the deceased. She was followed to the grave by a 
large cortege of relatives and neighbors; the dedication of

[Column 3]

he grave was made by Bro. A. Buchanan, Sen. We
mourn the departure of our dear sister, but we are com-
forted, knowing that she fought the good fight; she has
kept the faith; henceforth there is a crown laid up for her,
which the Lord will give her,and not her only but all who 
have His approval.

