	AND GENTLEMEN:

	In an age and world given up to the rush
and roar of railways, steam-ships, the miracles
of labor-saving machinery and other mighty
practicalities, when things regarded as theo-
retical or purely ideal are looked upon with
comparative indifference and are at a discount
in the popular mind, the mission of the poet is
apt to have its utility gravely questioned.
What is the poet good for? and what is the
good of poetry? are queries that have doubtless
flitted through many a mind, imbued with the
idea that nothing is useful which does not in
some way increase man's material wealth or
minister to his temporal needs.
	To answer, in part, these queries, and refute

[Column 2]

this sordid and all too practical argument, will
be the purpose of my present effort. And with
an audience like this, willing to be and per-
haps already convinced that the poet has a
mission in the world, and that the world would
do well to give him, at least, a respectful hear-
ing, I anticipate no very difficult task.
	I am satisfied that much of the prejudice
against poets, and the distaste for poetry which
exists in this prosaic age, are due entirely to
misapprehension. Only those who are ignorant
of what poetry means, will ask the question;
what is it good for? This is true of two classes,
those who have no poetry, or very little of it,
in their natures; and those who are brimful of
poetry and do not know it; who are really capa-
ble of appreciating it, and only need enlighten-
ing in order to enjoy to the fullest extent the
fragrance and beauty of this flower, plucked
from the gardens of Paradise and thrown to
earth to delight the senses and refresh the
souls of all lovers of the beautiful and refined.
	It is my belief that many persons who think
they dislike poetry are really poetical in their
natures, and are indebted to it more than they
imagine, for the success they may have
achieved, even in practical pursuits, and for
the enjoyment which their lives have afforded
them. Notably is this the case with many
public speakers, who owe to the poetic vein of
their natures—which they perchance lightly
esteem or entirely ignore—the purity of dic-
tion, magnetism, emotion, and power of utter-
ance with which they sway the minds and
hearts of the multitude. Where there is
no poetry there can be little or no eloquence.
	The commonest error made by many in re-
lation to poetry, is that it consists simply in
verse-making. They mistake the casket of
meter and rhyme for the jewel of thought
which it encloses, and perhaps in many in-
stances, after close investigation, they have
found the casket empty, and turned away
with feelings of disappointment and disgust.
Thenceforth, all rhymes were to them poetry,
and all poetry trash and sentimental nonsense.
Perhaps upon the worst specimens of doggerel
that could be selected, they have based their
estimation of the whole library of song. News-
paper warblings on "Spring," "Snow," "Fallen
Leaves," "Did you Ever Call Me Darling,"
and other hackneyed or effeminate themes,
they have classed with the divine epics of
Milton and Homer. The croak of a frog in
the marsh has sounded as sweet to them as the
song of the nightingale in the forest; and the
bray of the long-eared half brother to the
horse has been to them no less lofty and soul-
inspiring than the roar of a lion.
	Furthermore, poetry, as expressed in verse,
like all other arts and sciences, has its techni-
calities. The prose reader is often puzzled by
its transpositions, its contradictions, ellipses, and
other poetic licenses and rhetorical figures, ne-
cessary to rhythm and style, and comparative-
ly unknown in ordinary composition. And as
these require some study to overcome, the
mind naturally tires—unless the inducement
to proceed is greater than the temptation to
desist—and turns in impatient preference to
the easier forms of prose. This may be one
reason why poetry, even of a superior order, is
not pleasing to some.
	But all poetry, it must be remembered, is
not written in verse or rhyme. I heard a very
beautiful poem read a few weeks since, at the

[Column 3]

commencement exercises of the University.
It was an essay on the "Influence of Passion,"
by one of the young graduates. Not two lines
of it rhymed together, nor was it written with
any apparent regard to the rules of metrical
composition, but it was a poem nevertheless,
and the pen that wrote it was wielded by a
poet, or one gifted with poetic ability.
	We must not mistake the fruit of a tree,
either, for the tree itself. What is commonly
called poetry—that which we read or hear
spoken—is the blossom and fruit of poetry, or
more properly speaking, of poesy. Poesy is
the gift, poetry the expression of the gift;
poesy is the fount, poetry the stream that issues
from it.
	Says the poet Coleridge: "Poetry is the
blossom and fragrance of all human knowledge,
human thoughts, human passions, emotions,
language."
	Another writer defines it at greater length
in these eloquent words: "The gentle stillness
of a spring-time evening, when, with heart at-
tuned to the glories of the twilight scene, we
listen enraptured to the closing song of busy
nature, hushing to repose—this is poetry!
	"The coming storm, preceded by the rushing
wind; the dark, angry, approaching clouds,
capped with the flashing, darting lightning,
with the low muttering, and anon the deep
toned thunder coming nearer and nearer in its
awful grandeur! To the lover of the grand
and sublime—this is poetry!
	"The silvery quiet of the moonlight night,
when we wander amid the jessamines and roses,
with our darling, whispering words of love,
and dreaming of the future—this is poetry!
	"The midnight hour in the attic, when,
through the crevices of the roof and windows,
we catch glimpses of the flashing lightning,
and listen, slumber and dream to the music of
the pattering rain drops on the roof—this is
poetry!
	"The roaring cataract, the silvery rivulet,
the towering mountain, the dark ravine, the
opening rose-bud, the cherub child, the waving
grain, the modest violet—all breathe the music
of poetry!
	"The beautiful face, the gentle, thrilling
pressure of the hand, the kettle singing for tea,
the joyous meeting of the husband and wife on
the return from labor at the twilight hour, the
smile, the kiss—all this is poetry!
	"It flashes in the sky, it blossoms on the
earth, it breathes music in the air, delighting
the eye, charming the ear, and filling the soul
with ineffable happiness—all this is poetry!
	"To appreciate, to comprehend, and to in-
terpret, this golden sunny halo of beauty, is the
gift of the poet."
	If these are correct definitions—and who
will doubt it?—what must be the state of that
mind which really hates poetry, and has no
poetry within it?
	Says Dr. Holland: "All that is grand and
good, all that is heroic and unselfish, all that is
pure and true, all that is firm and strong,
all that is beautiful and harmonious, is essen-
tially poetical."
	"Poetry," says Coleridge, "has been to me
its own exceeding great reward; it has given
me the habit of wishing to discover the good
and beautiful in all that meets and surrounds
me."
	Again I ask—what must be the condition
of that mind which hates poetry, and has no
admiration for, or sympathy with, the good, the


[Column 1]

pure, the true, the beautiful and sublime? Of
such a one, might we not say with Shakes-
peare."

"The man that hath no music in himself,
Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds,
Is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils.
The motions of his spirit are dull as night
And his affections dark as Erebus—
Let no such man be trusted."

	Sir William Temple wisely observes, of those
who despise poetry and music, which are twin
sisters: "Whoever find themselves wholly in-
sensible to these charms, would, I think, do
well to keep their own counsel, for fear of re-
proaching their own temper, and bringing the
goodness of their natures, if not of their under-
standings, into question. It may be thought
at least an ill sign, if not an ill constitution;
since some of the fathers went so far as to es-
teem the love of music a sign of predestination;
as a thing divine, and reserved for the felicities
of heaven itself."
	Thus it appears that poetry, so far from be-
ing the trivial toy that some people suppose—
a soothing pastime for children, or for love-sick
boys and girls—is something of superior im-
port, and as worthy the attention of the wise
and serious, as of the gay and thoughtless among
mankind. Indeed, it is one of those things
which only the wise can properly understand,
and, as I have already stated, the reason why
many people dislike poetry, is simply because
they do not understand it.
	Poetry is that sentiment of the soul, or
faculty of the mind, which enables its possessor
to appreciate and realize the heights and depths
of human experience. It is the power to feel
pleasure or suffer pain, in all its exquisiteness
and intensity. All do not possess it in the
same degree, nor can any one who is not total-
ly depraved be utterly devoid of it. Nearly
all men and women are poetical, to some extent,
but very few of them can be called poets. There
are great poets and small poets, and there are
men and women who make verses. But all
are not poets, nor even good versifiers. Poetas-
ters are plentiful, but real poets are very rare.
Education cannot make a poet; although it
may polish and develop one. The poet is a
child of Nature, and, as the old proverb says,
"is born, not made." The greater the poet, the
greater is his capacity to suffer and enjoy. This
is why poets and other men and women of
genius are often such violent extremists, with 
their lives and characters full of contrasts and
apparent contradictions. All heights and
depths of feeling are theirs; vast is their scope
and marvelous their versatility. They are
either soaring like eagles in triumph among
the clouds, or groveling in despair in the depths
of the abyss.
	The poetic sentiment or faculty, I have said,
is the power to feel intensely, either pleasure
or pain. It does not always find expression in
words. There are joys that are mute; there
are sorrows that never sigh or weep; but are
eloquent in their stillness, and all the more
powerful for their imprisonment. Many poets
have never written. They may have felt
the divine fire burning within them, every
nerve and fibre of their sensitive natures
thrilled with joy or shaken with agony, and yet
were powerless to pour out upon the palpitat-
ing air the burden of the song that resounded
through all the secret caverns of the soul. The
most eloquent poets, "whose words were sparks
of immortality," have felt the painful inade-
quacy of language to illustrate their thoughts.
Even Byron cries out amid the overpowering
grandeur of the Alps, whose towering tops,
glistening in their caps of snow—silvered by
the moonbeams or frowning darkly amid the
lurid gleams and mutterings of the storm—
swept with Titanic fingers the harp-strings of 
his soul:

[Column 2]

"Could I embody and unbosom now
	That which is most within me,—could I wreak
My thoughts upon expression, and thus throw
	Soul, heart, mind, passions, feelings, strong or weak,
All that I would have sought, and all I seek,
Bear, know, feel, and yet breathe—into one word,
	And that one word were lightning, I would speak;
But as it is, I live and die unheard,
With a most voiceless thought, sheathing it as a sword."
	
	This, from one who could create, by the
magic wand of eloquence and imagination, new
worlds of light, and "people them with beings
bright as their own beams," who could "with
terror freeze the cowering blood," or "now dis-
solve the heart in tenderness;" who "from
above descending stooped to touch the loftiest
thought, and proudly stooped, as though it
scarce deserved his verse." In the same breath
which bewails his poverty of expression, he
thus addresses himself to the stars:

"Ye stars! which are the poetry of heaven!
If in your bright leaves we would read the fate
Of men and empires—'tis to be forgiven,
That in our aspirations to be great, 
Our destinies o'erleap their mortal state,
And claim a kindred with you; for ye are
A beauty and a mystery, and create
In us such love and reverence from afar,
That fortune, fame, power, life, have named themselves a
	star."

	Every school-boy is familiar with Byron's
apostrophe to the ocean:

"There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
There is society, where none intrudes,
	By the deep sea, and music in its roar:
I love not man the less, but nature more,
	From these our interviews, in which I steal
From all I may be, or have been before,
	To mingle with the universe and feel
	What I can ne'er express, yet cannot all conceal.

"Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean--roll!
	Ten thousand fleets sweep over thee in vain:
Man marks the earth with ruin—his control
	Stops with the shore; upon the watery plain
	The wrecks are all thy deed, nor doth remain
A shadow of man's ravage, save his own,
	When, for a moment, like a drop of rain,
He sinks into thy depths with bubbling groan,
Without a grave, unknelled, uncoffined and unknown.

"Thy shores are empires, changed in all save thee—
	Assyria, Greece, Rome, Carthage, what are they?
Thy waters wasted them while they were free,
	And many a tyrant since; their shores obey
The stranger, slave or savage; their decay
	Has dried up realms to deserts;—not so thou,
Unchangeable save to thy wild waves' play—
	Time writes no wrinkle on thine azure brow;
	Such as creation's dawn beheld, thou rollest now.
	
"Thou glorious mirror, where the Almighty's form
	Glasses itself in tempests; in all time
Calm or convulsed—in breeze, or gale or storm,
	Icing the pole, or in the torrid clime
Dark heaving;—boundless, endless and sublime,
	The image of Eternity—the throne
Of the invisible; even from out thy slime
	The monsters of the deep are made; each zone
	Obeys thee; thou goest forth, dread, fathomless, alone.

"And I have loved thee, ocean! and my joy
	Of youthful sports was on thy breast to be
Borne, like thy bubbles, onward: from a boy
	I wantoned with thy breakers—they to me
Were a delight; and if the freshening sea
	Made them a terror—'twas a pleasing fear,
For I was as it were a child of thee,
	And trusted to thy billows far and near,
	And laid my hand upon thy mane—as I do here."

	Somehow I have always suspected that poems
of this kind were not written while on the
bosom of the heaving wave. There are doubt-
less some people of soaring soul and cast-iron
diaphragm who can "sail the ocean blue" with

[Column 3]

all the aesthetic rapture which inspires them
while standing upon the shore, letting imagina-
tion take a lone voyage; but these, I opine, are
not yet as numerous as Abraham's posterity.
I am prepared to wager a large orange that
the bard who sang, "I'm on the sea," was at
the time snugly ensconced in an attic, and that
even the sublime oceanic rhapsodies of the im-
mortal Byron were more the result of occular
than of tangible sensation. A man may "lay
his hand upon the ocean's mane" with compara-
tive comfort, but when the ocean takes it into
his hoary head to return the compliment, the
conditions are more than liable to be reversed.
	I have quoted liberally from Byron, not
only because I greatly admire his genius, but
because he is typical, in some respects, of all
poets. Not to surfeit you with his poetry, per-
mit me to give one more brief selection, on the
vanity of human ambition:

"He who ascends to mountain tops shall find
 	The loftiest peaks most wrapt in clouds and snow;
He who surpasses or subdues mankind,
	Must look down on the hate of those below,
	Though high above the sun of glory glow,
And far beneath the earth and ocean spread,
	Round him are icy rocks and loudly blow
Contending tempests on his naked head,
And thus reward the toils which to those summits led."

	Few men have realized more fully the melan-
cholly truth of these majestic words than the
one who penned them. Gifted by heaven with
all a poet's genius, and with all a poet's sensi-
bility, he knew what it was to incur the jealous
hatred of those whom nature and nature's God
had made his inferiors. His sins were many,
and they merited punishment, but his great
"crimes," for which he was hated most, were in
being gifted above his fellows, and having the
temerity to tell more truth concerning them
than they desired to hear. He was harshly,
unreasonably criticised on the very threshold
of his career; and later in life was covered
with calumny and opprobrium. His soul, like
a finely strung harp, swept by savage hands,
cried out in resentment against the outrage
and poured forth a mingled torrent of discord
and melody. His satire was as keen as the
arrows of Apollo; his invective as terrible as
the thunders of Jove: and upon the heads of
his traducers he poured out the vials of his
wrath unsparingly. I am not an apologist for
the sins of Byron; I am simply calling attention
to facts that may plead in extenuation of his
faults, and which furnish a reason for the ex-
tremes of good and evil to be found in his
poetry. Byron might have been very different
with other circumstances, other treatment and
surroundings. It was the stormy experience
of his  life, which moulded the character of
much of his poetry. His soul responded to
every touch, gentle or harsh, that came upon
it; it was a mirror throwing back the smiles
and frowns of all beholders; a clear, calm lake,
sleeping peacefully in the sunlight, but rippled
by the faintest breeze, and capable of reflect-
ing all the terrors of the storm. Byron, like
all true poets, simply poured out what he felt.
The cup of sweetness mingled with wormwood,
which he quaffed and held to the lips of others,
was made up of his own joys and sorrows, com-
pounded by his own genius in the crucible of
his own brain.
	Thus is this poet a type, in many respects, of
all children of genius. They who express
most must likewise feel most, both of pleasure
and pain; and this it is which creates for genius
its dual destiny—its laurel wreath of bliss with
misery interwoven—its couch of roses with its
pillow of thorns. It is one thing to sip the
sweets of poesy, and another thing to provide
them for the world's delectation. That which
gives us so much pleasure to hear may have
cost its author untold toil and pain.
	I will now present a few selections from


[Column 1]
standard poets, only regretting that time will
not permit my quoting from them all. Here is
a pretty little conceit of Shelley's, called
"Love's Philosophy:"
		"The fountains mingle with the river,
			And the rivers with the ocean;
		The winds of heaven mix forever
			With a sweet emotion;
		Nothing in the world is single;
			All things by a law divine
		In one another's being mingle—
			   Why not I with thine!

		"See! the mountains kiss high heaven,
			   And the waves clasp one another;
		No sister flower would be forgiven
			If it disdained its brother;
		And the sunlight clasps the earth,
			And the moonbeams kiss the sea;—
		What are all these kissings worth,
			If thou kiss not me?"

	Love, you know, is called "the poetry of life,
and the life of poetry." Tennyson says of it
sadly:
		"I hold it true, whate'er befall;
			I feel it when I sorrow most;
		'Tis better to have loved and lost,
			Than never to have loved at all."

	Longfellow:—
		"As unto the bow the cord is,
		So unto the man is woman;
		Though she bends him, she obeys him
		Though she draws him, yet she follows—
		Useless each without the other."

	Burns illustrates gratitude and friendship in
these touching lines, addressed to a dead
friend:
		The bridegroom may forget the bride
			Was made his wedded wife yestreen;
		The monarch may forget the crown
			That on his head an hour has been;
		The mother may forget the child
			That smiles sae sweetly on her knee,
		But I'll remember thee, Glencairn,
			And a' that thou hast done for me."

Moore's picture of "Sunset."

		"How dear to me the hour when daylight dies,
		   And sunbeams melt upon the silent sea,
		For then sweet dreams of other days arise,
		   And memory breathes her vesper sigh to thee,
		And as I watch the line of light that plays
		   Along the smooth wave toward the burning west
		I long to tread its golden path of rays,
		   And think 'twill lead to some bright isle of rest."

	"Night," by Shelley:

How beautiful this night! The balmiest sigh
Which vernal zephyrs breathe in evening's ear,
Were discord to the speaking quietude
That wraps this moveless scene. Heaven's ebon vault,
Studded with stars unutterably bright,
Through which the moon's unclouded grandeur rolls,
Seems like a canopy which Love has spread
To curtain her sleeping world. Yon gentle hills
Robed in a garment of untrodden snow;
Yon darksome rocks whence icicles depend;
So stainless that their white and glittering spires
Tinge not the moon's pure beam; yon castled steep
Whose banner hangeth o'er the time-worn tower
So idly that rapt fancy deemeth it
A metaphor of peace: all form a scene
Where musing solitude might love to lift
Her soul above this sphere of earthliness,
Where silence, undisturbed, might watch alone—
So cold, so bright, so still."

		"Morning," by Edwin Arnold:
					Lo! the Dawn
Sprang with Buddh's victory! lo! in the east
 Flamed the first fires of beauteous day, poured forth
Through fleeting folds of Night's black drapery;
High in the widening blue the herald star
Faded to paler silver as there shot
Brighter and brightest bars of rosy gleam

[Column 2]
Across the gray. Far off the shadowy hills
Saw the great sun, before the world was 'ware
And donned their crowns of crimson; flower by flower
Felt the warm breath of Morn and 'gan to unfold
Their tender lids. Over the spangled grass
Swept the swift footsteps of the lovely Light,
Turning the tears of Night to joyous gems,
Decking the earth with radiance, 'broidering
The sinking storm-clouds with a golden fringe,
Gilding the feathers of the palms, which waved
Glad salutation; darting beams of gold
Into the glades; touching with magic wand
The stream to rippled ruby; in the brake
Finding the mild eyes of the antelopes
And saying, 'it is day;' in nested sleep
Touching the small heads under many a wing,
And whispering, 'Children, praise the light of day.'"

	Campbell:

		"At summer eve, when heaven's ethereal bow
		Spans with bright arch the glittering hills below,
		Why to yon mountain turns the musing eye
		Whose sunbright summit mingles with the sky?
		Why do those cliffs of shadowy tint appear
		More sweet than all the landscape smiling near?
		'Tis distance lends enchantment to the view
		And robes the mountain in its azure hue.
		Thus, with delight, we linger to survey
		The promised joys of life's unmeasured way.
		Thus, from afar, each dim discovered scene
		More pleasing seems than all the past hath been."

Burns:

			"But pleasures are like poppies spread,
			You sieze the flower—its bloom is shed;
			Or, like the snow fall in the river,
			A moment white then melts forever;
			Or, like the borealis race,
			That flit ere you can point their place;
			Or, like the rainbow's lovely form,
			Evanishing amid the storm."

Moore:

	"Let fate do her worst; there are relics of joy,
	Bright dreams of the past, which she cannot destroy;
	Which come in the night time of sorrow and care,
	And bring back the features that joy used to wear.
	Long, long be my heart with such memories filled!
	Like the vase in which roses have once been distilled—
	You may break, you may shatter the vase if you will,
	But the scent of the roses will hang round it still.

Gray:

		"Full many a gem of purest ray serene
		   The dark unfathomed caves of ocean bear;
		Full many a flower is born to blush unseen
		   And waste its sweetness on the desert air."

Longfellow:
			"Never stoops the soaring vulture
			On his quarry in the desert,
			On the sick or wounded bison,
			But another vulture, watching
			From his high, aerial look-out,
			Sees the downward plunge, and follows;
			And a third pursues the second
			Coming from the invisible ether,
			First a speck, and then a vulture,
			Till the air is dark with pinions.
			So disasters come not singly;
			But as if they watched and waited,
			Scanning one another's motions,
			When the first descends, the others
			Follow, follow, gathering flock-wise
			Round their victim, sick and wounded,
			First a shadow, then a sorrow,
			Till the air is dark with anguish."

	May Ryley Smith:

Sometime, when all Life's lessons have been learned,
	And suns and stars forevermore have set,
The things which our weak judgements here have spurned,
	The things o'er which we grieved with lashes wet,
Will flash before us, out of Life's dark night,
	As stars shine most in deeper tints of blue;
And we shall see how all God's plans were right,
	And how, what seemed reproof, was love most true.

[Column 3]
But not to-day. Then be content, poor heart,
	God's plans, like lilies, pure and white unfold;
We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart;
	Time will reveal the calyxes of gold."

	Thoughts and words like these are the pro-
ducts of genius, and genius, in order to produce,
must feel them.
	"Genius," says Castelar, "is a divine infirmi-
ty—genius is a martyrdom. The poet seizes
upon the light, the stars, the mountains, the
seas, to convert them into ideas, into canticles.
The poet dissolves the universe to mingle the
colors for his pictures. But he cannot under-
take this Titanic work without insuring his
own destruction. He cannot go into the fire
without being burned; he cannot mount to the
extreme heights of the atmosphere without
being frozen; he cannot enter the thunder-cloud
without receiving in that conductor, his body,
the shock of electricity. Those privileged
souls which, flinging off the clay of this world,
force their way upward till they become like
bright stars in the firmament, almost approach-
ing the angels; those beings—who from the
rock of their own shipwreck hold forth the
light to future generations—have fed the di-
vine splendor burning in the lamp of their
own brain with tears from their eyes and with
blood from their hearts."
	"Thus there is always an abyss in the depths
of all genius. A crown of stars cannot be
placed upon the brow unless there is at the
same time a crown of thorns around the heart.
One cannot enter the temple to inscribe an im-
mortal name, but at the cost of writing it in
the blood of one's veins."
	These, my hearers, are the words of a poet—
a poet who is famed as an orator, and who
utters his thoughts, his poetry, in prose. Take
one more draught from the same pellucid foun-
tain:
	"Life is full of complications, and for the
same reason of insuperable difficulties. And
as there are great contrasts in nature, there are
also in society opposed forces. By the side of
the prophet, who announces the future, arises
the magistrate, who believes his mission to be
the conservation of the present system, and
who as a result of this conviction, persecutes
the prophet; in the vicinity of every new
thinker there exists an association which be-
lieves itself infallible; beside each reformer is
placed the eternal cup of hemlock. It appears
that seeds cannot fall upon the earth unless
the vase which contains them is broken.
Every old prejudice feels itself wounded by a
new idea, and hates it accordingly.		*	*
Society is movement—but those who move it
fall under the weight of its crushing wheel.
Society is renovation, but those who renew it
are slain by its old errors. We cannot aspire
to be blessed by posterity without being cursed
by our contemporaries. Savage beasts do not
disappear from a country without having been
long and patiently chased. How many bright in-
telligences fall, how many fail, how many die
and depart like shadows in the struggle which
is necessary to rid the earth of monsters. The
greater number of people believe you are tear-
ing their souls from God if you endeavor to
uproot one of the prejudices or errors under
whose shadows their fathers lived for ages.
	"And you, poetic souls, you who come from
purer regions crowned with flowers, beating
your white wings, clothed with ether; with an
immortal song upon your lips and a lyre in
your hands, like the first angels who gazed
upon chaos at the birth of the universe; you
who bear imagination like a star upon your
brows, and who live awe-struck and ecstatic in
the contemplation of a world of ideas, which
to us weak mortals whose vision cannot pene-
trate it appears a world of shadows—you can-
not enter this sphere of realities without fall-
ing into an abyss, without tearing your wings
			Continued on page 86


[Column 1]

Continued from page 83.
and wounding your feet with thorns; you can-
not descend from the fire in which  you have
been moulded to the coldness of our shades
unless the dew of your tears is frozen in their
fall, and the transparent vase of your hearts is
broken by the hailstones."
	This brings us face to face with the mission
of the poet among men. Says Holland: "Verily
the poets of the world are the prophets of hu-
manity. They forever reach after and foresee
the ultimate good. They are evermore build-
ing the Paradise that is to be, painting the
Millennium that is to come, restoring the lost
image of God in the human soul. When the
world shall reach the poet's ideal, it will arrive
at perfection, and much good will it do the
world to measure itself by this ideal and strug-
gle to lift the real to its lofty level."
	I am not prepared to admit—nor do I sup-
pose Dr. Holland meant to say—that the poets
of the world are its only prophets, or that they
are prophets in the same sense and degree as
the inspired oracles of sacred writ. But I do
believe that the gift of poesy and the gift of
prophecy are akin to each other; that both are
of divine origin, and that they generally go
hand in hand. Prophets are almost invariably
poets; and poets, in many instances, have been
remarkably prophetic. Of the former class at-
test the writings of David, Isaiah, Jeremiah
and others—veritable prophets and veritable
poets—who, in some of the greatest poetry
ever sung, have indeed "built the Paradise that
is to be, and "foretold the Millennium that is
to come." Read the parables and sayings of
the Savior, you who love poetry and desire to
pluck from its luxuriant parterres some of its
sweetest and most fragrant flowers:
	"Consider the lilies of the field, how they
grow; they toil not neither do they spin, and
yet I say unto you that even Solomon, in all
his glory, was not arrayed like one of these.
	"Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of
the field, which to-day is and to-morrow is cast
into the oven, shall he not much more clothe
you, O ye of little faith?"
	Can our language boast anything purer, ten-
derer, truer, and more beautiful? Jesus of
Nazareth was a poet, no less than a prophet, of
preeminent genius.
	Time and your patience would fail me in
even glancing over the many conspicuous beau-
ties of Bible poetry. One more selection—
from Isaiah—and we will pass on:
	"How beautiful upon the mountains are the
feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that
publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of
good, that publisheth salvation, that saith unto
Zion, thy God reigneth.
	Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with
the voice together shall they sing: for they shall
see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again
Zion.
	"Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste
places of Jerusalem; for the Lord hath com-
forted his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem.
	"Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the
glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.
	"For, behold the darkness shall cover the
earth, and gross darkness the people; but the
Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall
be seen upon thee.
	"And the Gentiles shall come to thy light,
and kings to the brightness of thy rising."
	There are some people who think there is no
poetry in religion. Such people, I fear, do not
know what poetry means, or what religion
means. Religion is full of poetry, and poetry
is full of religion. The loftiest and sublimest
poetry, as well as the sweetest and tenderest, is
religious poetry, and it cannot be otherwise. I
could cite many of the sayings of the Prophets,
Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, Heber C.
Kimball, Parley P. Pratt, John Taylor, and
scores of others with whom we are familiar,

[column 2]

and you would feel the poetry breathing in
every syllable, blazing from every sentence.
The fabled fire that Prometheus filched from
heaven is not more strikingly a symbol for
poetic inspiration, than is the Spirit of the
eternal God the very muse that has inspired all
true poetry that was ever written.
	I do not include in this—I need scarcely
say—the poetry of sensuality, of brutality false-
hood, hypocrisy and lust; which disgraces, and
not adorns, wherever found, the world's litera-
ture. Neither do I palliate—however much I
admire genius, its prostitution to ignoble ends.
No true poetry was ever based on anything low
and groveling. It is impossible to soil a sun-
beam. The poet may pervert his gift, as the
judge may disgrace his ermine, but the spirit
of poetry, the genius of justice, can never be
dragged in the mire. Day and night, dross
and gold, are not more essentially separate, al-
though their edges may join, than is the essence
of poetry distinct from everything base, sensu-
al and depraved. It is that high sense of right
which scorns all wrong; the sword and balance
of eternal justice; the voice of mercy pleading
for the fallen; the tongue of truth heralding
salvation and reform; the oracle of liberty pro-
claiming freedom to the captive, and deliver-
ance to the oppressed; the thunder-bolt of retri-
bution which lays the tyrant low. It is akin
to that Spirit which leadeth into all truth;
which reveals things past and things to come;
which takes of the things of God and shows
them unto mortals. The pillar of faith which
cannot be broken; the light of hope which is
never extinguished; the fountain of charity
and love which never fails.
	A few words in relation to prophetic poetry.
An anonymous writer says: "So entirely do
great poets soar beyond the reach, and almost
beyond the ken of their own age, that we
have only lately begun to have a right under-
standing of Shakespeare, or of the masters of
the Greek drama—to discern the principles
which actuated them, the purposes they had in
view, the laws they acknowledged, and the
ideas they wished to impersonate."
	Here is a prescient glimpse of Shakespeare's
worthy of one of the old Hebrew prophets:

	The cloud-capt towers, the gorgeous palaces,
	The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
	Yea, all that it inherit–shall dissolve,
	And like the baseless fabric of a vision
	Leave not a rack behind."

	Tennyson, in Locksley Hall, foretells the
triumphs—yet to be—of aerial navigation, and
the advent of the Millenium:

For I dipt into the future, ar as human eye could see,
Saw the vision of the world and all the wonder yet to be;

Saw the heavens fill with commerce, argosies of magic
	sails,
Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with costly
	bales;

Heard the heavens fill with shouting, and there rained a
	ghastly dew
From the nation's airy navies grappling in the central blue;

Far along the world-wide whisper of the south wind rush-
	ing warm,
With the standards of the people plunging through the
	thunder-storm.

Till the war drum throbbed no longer, and the battle flags
	were furled
In the Parliament of man, the Federation of the world.

There the common sense of most shall hold a fretful world
	in awe,
And the kindly earth shall slumber, lapt in universal law."

Byrant, our American bard, gives this:
	"Truth crushed to earth shall rise again;
		The eternal years of God are hers;
	But Error, wounded, writhes with pain,
		And dies amid his worshippers.

[column 3]

	Charles Mackay, in a poem entitled "Eter-
nal Justice," supplies this generation with some
choice food for reflection:

	The man is thought a knave or fool
		Or bigot plotting crime,
	Who, for the advancement of his race,
		Is wiser than his time.
	For him the hemlock shall distill,
		For him the axe be bared;
	For him the gibbet shall be built;
		For him the stake prepared;
	Him shall the scorn and wrath of men,
		Pursue with deadly aim,
	And malice, envy, blight and lies
		Shall desecrate his name.
	But truth shall conquer at the last,
		For round and round we run,
	And ever the right comes uppermost
		And ever is justice done.

	Pace through thy cell, old Socrates,
		Cheerily to and fro;
	Trust to the impulse of thy soul
		And let the poison flow;
	They may shatter to earth the lamp of clay
		That holds a light divine,
	But they cannot quench the fire of thought
		By any such deadly wine;
	They cannot blot thy spoken words
		From the memory of man
	By all the poison ever was brewed
		Since time its course began.
	To-day abhorred to-morrow adored,
		So round and round we run,
	And ever the truth comes uppermost
		And ever is justice done.

	Plod in thy cave, gray Anchorite;
		Be wiser than thy peers;
	Augment the range of human power
		And trust to coming years.
	They may call thee wizard, and monk accursed,
		And load thee with dispraise,
	Thou wert born five hundred years too soon
		For the comfort of thy days.
	But not too soon for human kind,
		Time hath reward in store;
	And the demons of our sires become
		The saints whom we adore.
	The blind can see, the slave is lord;
		So round and round we run,
	And ever the wrong is proved to be wrong
		And ever is justice done.

	Keep, Galileo, to thy thought,
		And nerve thy soul to bear;
	They may gloat o'er the senseless words they wring
		From the pangs of thy despair.
	They may veil their eyes, but they cannot hide
		The sun's meridian glow;
	The heel of a priest may tread thee down
		And a tyrant work thee woe;
	But never a truth has been destroyed:
		They may curse it and call it a crime;
	Pervert and betray, or slander and slay
		Its teachers for a time;
	But the sunshine aye shall light the sky.
		As round and round we run;
	And the truth shall ever come uppermost
		And justice shall be done.

	And live there now such men as these—
		With thoughts like the great of old?
	Many have died in their misery,
		And left their thought untold,
	And many live and are ranked as mad
		And placed in the cold world's ban,
	For sending their bright, far-seeing souls
		Three centuries in the van;
	They toil in penury and grief,
		Unknown if not maligned;
	Forlorn, forlorn, bearing the scorn
		Of the meanest of mankind;
	But yet the world goes round and round
		And the genial seasons run,
	And ever the truth comes uppermost
		And ever is justice done."

	Poets do not always know what great truths
they are telling. Like the prophets, whom


they so much resemble, they have in all ages
"builded better than they knew."  Shall we
say, then, that the prophetic poet is an acci-
dent, and the poetical prophet a design? No—
rather let us ascribe them both to their great
Author, Designer and Inspirer, that God may
be all in all.
	As to the question of poetry versus practi-
cality, with which this lecture began, a few
words in conclusion. It is only a seeming
chasm which divides them— the difference be-
tween cause and effect. The world is indebted
to poetry for its practical triumphs more than
it is generally aware. Poetry has unveiled
science, applauded enterprise, stimulated re-
search and led to discovery in all ages. Tullidge,
a local poet and historian says:
	"It was the poets, they who die in garrets,
who first gave birth to civilization. When the
race was emerging from the barbaric splendor
of empire-founding and war, our poets were
the only historians, and they made peoples fa-
miliar with each other through the plastic me-
dium of their gorgeous verse. Homer wrote
the history of Greece and Troy ages before
Plutarch wrote his lives of great men. [And
four hundred years before Herodotus, the so-
called father of history was born.—O. F. W.]
We know more of what men were four thou
sand years ago, and gather more of the manners
and customs of the early nations from Homer's
Iliad than from any other work extant; nor
should we forget the glorious Hebrew Bible—
the very book of poets—which has been the
basis of civilization these thousands of years.
And if we come down to our poets of more
modern times to learn the value of their gifts
to the race, we have but to take the English
language to discover that they have more than
half created it. What have not Shakespeare,
Milton, Pope, Byron, Southey, Wordsworth,
Shelly, Moore, Scott and others done for us in
this respect! The age of poets is the age of
culture. The world is blessed when poets are
born. Let sentiment and ideas flow into so-
ciety, and poets must sing as do the birds
when summer comes round. When there is
no poetry in the air, human nature is rude and
barbaric."
	Thus, my hearers, is poetry shown to be the
elder sister of history, the mother of language,
and the ancestress of civilization.
	The poet was a boon-giver and benefactor
from the beginning. His seat is among the
highest up that mount whose summit peers into
the sources of thought, and like the moun-
tain peaks at sunrise; his mind ever caught
the first glimmerings of light as it dawned
upon the world. His brain has been as the
torch of the Almighty to kindle and illumine
the nations. His mind has been the fountain
whence have sprung thoughts that have
induced millions to think. The ideas he first
advanced have awakened ideas in others, until
the spring has become a running brook, the
running brook a river, and the river an ocean
of ideas, inventions and achievements that
have flooded and filled the earth with glory
and civilization.
	But the end is not yet. There are heights
to climb which have never been surmounted;
depths to fathom which still remain unsounded.
The wheels of progress are not idle; the work
of Omnipotence is speeding onward; and the
world, the human race, though far from
the goal of perfection, will yet be lifted to the
poetic standard and raised to the poet's ideal.


