Y. L. M. I. A., SALT LAKE STAKE.

	Minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Salt Lake
Stake, held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Friday, Sept. 17th, 1886, Coun. M. Y.

[Column 2]

Dougall presiding.  Singing, "Gladly Meeting."
Prayer by Mrs. M. I. Horne.  Singing, "Joseph
Smith's First Prayer," Roll called, seventeen
presidents responding.  Minutes of the pre-
vious conference were read and approved.
The Secretary then read the semi-annual re-
ports of the associations, after which Coun-
Dougall expressed regret for the incomplete-
ness of the reports; hoped that the presidents
would, in the future, see that these reports are 
sent in on time, that the general report might
be complete.  She reported the work of the 
Stake Presidency for the last quarter, saying
they had held the regular meetings for the 
officers, and that they had been fairly attended,
and had visited two associations since the last
conference.
	After this report, Sister Horne addressed
those present.  She expressed herself pleased
in being able to attend a young ladies' confer-
ence, and in listening to such favorable re-
ports.  Said that the Lord loves the diligent 
worker, and not those who are only lukewarm.
She thought the young should strive to be dili-
gent and gain favor of the Lord.  She read 
some of the prophecies of Isaiah, foretelling
what will befall the daughters of Zion, and
urged the young to consider these things and
qualify themselves to be useful women—mothers
in Israel, instead of devoting so much time in 
ornamenting their bodies.  She claimed that
the daughters are as precious in the sight of 
the Lord as are the sons, and that we are re-
warded for our good deeds, and hoped all
would do good and avoid even the appearance
of evil.
	Miss Clara Snedaker, President of the Mill
Creek Association, testified of the value of 
these associations: desired to do her utmost to 
become acquainted with our religion; said
everything she read led her to believe that this
is the true Church of God.  Prayed for the 
blessings of God to be with us continually to 
guide us in all our efforts.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards said: "I realize a 
lack of performing a duty makes us lose the
spirit we desire," and for this reason she had 
responded to the call to address the meeting.
She referred to her recent visit to Washington,
and felt that she and the other sisters were
blessed in their labors.  She met some who 
were anxious to learn of our people, but the 
majority cared nothing about us, and accept 
only the false reports of us, etc.
	Miss Sarah Eddington felt to respond to the
call made upon her from a desire to do her
duty.  She felt a desire to keep every com-
mandmant of God and advance in His king-
dom for she knew that there was no standing
still in His kingdom, etc.
	Mrs. M. A. Coulam said: "I realize it is time
to be up and doing.  The pleasure of the 
world waneth, but the pleasures of heaven are 
something to live for, and do every duty for."
	Mrs. Fannie Thatcher said that there was no
place she loved to be better than in an assem-
bly of the Saints, and she hoped she would
stand ever true to her religion.
	Mrs. Ellen Clawson expressed herself pleased
to be at this meeting, and only wished it were 
crowded.  She urged the young ladies to con-
tinue to do right, and remember the Lord con-
tinually.
	Mrs. Aurelia Rogers urged the young not to 
indulge in slander and gossip, for we do not
gain by it, and some one's reputation is often 
affected by it.
	After a few remarks by Coun. Dougall, who
bore a strong testimony to the benefit of fast-
ing, the meeting was adjourned till 2 p.m.
Singing.  Prayer by Coun. Nellie Colebrook.
	Afternoon session: Opened with singing,
"Love at Home." Prayer by Prest. E. S. 
Taylor.  Singing, "Our Mountain Home." Re-
marks by Coun. Nellie Colebrook upon mat-

[Column 3]

ters of vital importance to the young girls—
light reading, prayerfulness, acquiring knowl-
edge and intelligence, gaining a testimony for 
themselves; urged them all to appreciate
the blessings they enjoyed, and at the close of 
her remarks she cautioned the girls against
backbiting and speaking evil words.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball made some interesting
remarks, in which she said we might ask our-
selves the question, "Who are we, and what
is our destination?" Spoke of our former state
of existence, and that we had kept our first 
estate, otherwise we should not have had our
bodies; but we were not in a progressive state.
Spoke of the fall, and added that what Eve
had done had generally been looked upon as a
misfortune, a weakness of hers, but she con-
sidered it the greatest thing she could have
done for her descendants; thought one of the 
first grand lessons for young women to learn was
self-preservation.  Spoke of the mission given
her to the Y. L. in connection with Sister Tay-
lor; spoke of the necessity of purity, and that
it was expected the daughters of Zion would 
be polished after the similitude of a palace.
	Coun. Mattie H. Tingey, who had been in
delicate health, and not able to attend meet-
ings or conferences for some time, was the next 
speaker.  She testified to the power of God
in healing her, and returned thanks to Him
and to the sisters for their faith and prayers in
her behalf.  Exhorted the young girls not to 
give way to evil influences and  gave some 
illustrations of the same, and urged them to 
heed the good instructions they were receiving
from time to time.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp related a circumstance
showing the efficacy of a mother's prayer and
also spoke of purity for only the pure in
heart would be able to stand.
	Mrs. Harper bore testimony to the truth of 
what had been said and hoped we would be
able to carry it out in our daily lives.
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp have some excellent in-
structions and said the power of the adversary
is greater than the young girls can imagine
and prayed that they might be strengthened
to withstand temptation.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor thought there had been 
excellent teachings, said "some had been apt
scholars and they were the ones to whom we 
could look as patterns; some had fallen by the 
way; was it because they did not receive the 
Holy Ghost when hands were laid upon them?
no; it was because that spirit was not cherished,
and let this be a lesson to us. "Spoke of
prayer as a safeguard and if they were in the 
company of thousands your angel will waft
your prayer to your Heavenly Father.
Beware of those who ridicule sacred things
and watch the whisperings of the spirit, some-
times it leaves us that we may be tempted.
Let us be brave and not give way to wrong
impressions. We must learn to be self reliant.
It has been said the time will come when we
shall have none of the Melchisedec Priest-
hood with us only the Aaronic, but may God
help us to keep faithful.
	Counselor Maria Y. Dougall said I feel to 
urge upon the young to put on the whole 
armor of righteousness, and I want my ex-
ample and conduct to be such before my sisters
that they may know that I am in earnest.  Sin
and iniquity are rampant and there seems to 
be an undercurrent that we know but little of.
Obedience is a keyword; if we had obeyed the 
revelation to President Taylor our enemies
would have no dominion with us.  Mothers
talk to your children that the principles of the 
Gospel may not be strange to them; made other
good and instructive remarks.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Give us room that we may dwell."
Renediciton by Mrs. Hadley.


