BARTHOLDI'S STATUE OF LIBERTY.

	The grand ceremony of unveiling the Bartholdi
Statue was celebrated with great pomp and parade
on Thursday, October 28th, at Bedloe's Island.
It is spoken of as "The Great Event," by the
papers generally, and must have indeed been a
red letter day in the history of the country. The
great city of New York was in holiday attire, and
crowds of people, fine bands of music, distin-
guished guests from the nation's capital and other
cities, the French and American flags flying from
the different points of the city, the naval parade,
the labor parade, the firing of guns, in which three
Batteries took part, all these, and many other
things, too numerous to mention in detail here,
must have made this national inauguration of this
Statue of Liberty one of the greatest events of
modern times. The telegraphic dispatches give
very full particulars, and are exceedingly interest-
ing. In Broadway there were magnificent arches
of evergreens, flags and mottoes erected in front
of the World building. The Tribune, Times, Sun,
Mail, Express and other newspaper buildings
were tastefully decorated, as also many other ele-
gant structures, in honor of the event.
	"The music that was played while the officials

[Column 2]
and guests were assembled on Bedloe's Island was
followed by a signal gun, that announced the be-
ginning of the ceremonies." Rev. Dr. Richard
S. Starrs offered prayer, and Count Ferdinand de
Lesseps delivered an address in behalf of the
Franco-American union. Senator Evarts made
the address of presentation, "and the ceremony
of unveiling the statue of Liberty then took place
and was followed by a salvo from all the guns in
the harber. After music, President Cleveland
formally accepted the statue." An address was
then made by the Representative of France, Le
ministre Plenipotentiaire et delegate extraordinaire
A. Lafaivre. More music by Gilmores' Twenty-
second Regiment Band, and Chancry M. Depew
delivered a commemorative address. Old Hun-
dred was played by the band, and the vast assem-
bly joined in singing doxology. The ceremonies
were closed with benediction, pronounced by the
Right Reverend Henry C. Potter, D. D., assistant
bishop of diocese of New York. A national sa-
lute was then fired simultaneously by all batteries
in the Harbor, afloat and ashore. There was an
evening illumination of the statue, with fireworks
on Bedloe's and Governor's Islands and the Bat-
tery. A dinner in honor of the French guests
was given at Delmonico's in the evening by the
Chamber of Commerce.
	The banquet at the Chamber of Commerce was
an elaborate affair. Mr. James M. Brown pre-
sided. On his right were Messrs Albert Lafaivre,
Eugene Spuller, August Bartholdi, Governor
David B. Hill and others. President Cleveland
went direct from the festivities on Bedloe's Island
on board the Dispatch in company with Secretaries
Lamar, Bayard and Whitney to the Adams Ex-
press pier and walked to the depot, where the
special train was in waiting to convey them to
Washington.
	It must be an imposing sight to witness such
national ceremonies and listen to such eloquent
addresses; but are the hearts of the people deeply
impressed with the spirit of liberty? In the mem-
orial speech of Hon. C. M. Depew, he says:
"The spirit of liberty embraces all races in a com-
mon brotherhood, and it voices in all languages
the same needs and aspirations." If the liberty of
the American people is as much greater and
broader than that of any other nation as the
colossal statue just planted on American soil is
than other structures commemorative of victories,
science and industrial progress, then, indeed, will
the people of the United States enjoy all the rights
of free men and women, which may heaven grant
to those persecuted and oppressed for conscience’
sake and belief in an unpopular religious faith.
	That this event may be significant of a truer
bond of brotherhood among mankind, and a
broader charity, that shall extend its mantle to en-
circle all who are striving after the light of truth,
that it may herald in such a foretaste of the mil-
lenium, "is a consummation devoutly to be
wished."


