[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: PROSPERITY AND PROGRESS. | Author: Unknown]

	PROSPERITY AND PROGRESS.
	Whatever may be said in regard to the
times in which we are now living or com-
plaints made, the new century and the
larger half of the nineteenth century,
certainly all must acknowledge these days
as a period of prosperity almost, if not
quite unequaled in the history of nations.
	To be sure there are great disasters and
calamities, and accidents innumerable,
causing much sorrow and anxiety, yet
aside from all that, and notwithstanding
the pessimistic views of a few would-be
wiseacres, there was never anything, we
can read, or hear of like the times of pro-
gress and prosperity of the actual pres-
ent.
	Turning our attention backward to the
early part of the nineteenth century, it
sets one’s head whirling almost, to con-
template the enormous changes in every
phase of living since that time. Were
the young folks of today to have the his-
tory of the past open to them, say even
fifty or sixty years ago, it would be diffi-
cult for them to imagine how their fore-
fathers and mothers lived, even those in
comparatively comfortable circumstances.
The hardest working classes at the pres-
ent time, with notably few exceptions,
are really better provided with the com-
forts and conveniences of housekeeping
and out-door working machinery, and in
many other respects, than those of what
would then be termed, “people in easy
circumstances.”
	It is scarcely possible to estimate in any
sense, how superior in all ways now are
the advantages of the homes and sur-
roundings in the domestic life of Ameri-
cans, and in fact one might say of all
English-speaking families, in eyery tem-
poral particular.
	It is true also that even those who have
seen what is called “hard times,” do not
fully appreciate the vast difference be-
tween then and now, and in many, per-
haps the greater number of instances,
fail to acknowledge the hand of the Lord
in causing these things to come to pass,
that have wrought such miracles, as it
were in the new civilization. There are
many who go on murmuring, though
they are surrounded with comforts, some-
times even luxuries,. It seems strange
that people can be so dissatisfied with
comparatively prosperous conditions, and
are continually reaching out and aspiring
after more and more.
	In worldly matters the majority of peo-

[Column 2]
ple have what would formerly, and not
so very long ago either, been considered
wealth, or at any rate what would make
for comfortable living. The old story of
the man who wanted riches, and declared
to his wife that he was determined to be
rich, is a good comparison; she didn’t want
riches, only to be comfortable, the man
got rich, but his wife was never comfort-
able. No matter how grasping people
may be they can’t get the moon; but
they have in this day got the fulness of
the earth, so to speak.
	Man with his great endowments, of
strength and activity of mind and body,
with ingenuity, skill and achievements,
has by the blessing of the Lord, brought
such prosperity, and such remarkable pro-
gress has been attained along so many
lines of improvement by land and by sea,
that one is filled with admiration at what
has already come to pass, and wonders
what giant schemes are to be launched
forth to astonish the inhabitants of this
little globe, and for the betterment of the
conditions of life and advancement of the
interests of the world of nations and peo-
ples.
	Amazement and awe, are the only words
one can use, for it is impossible to de-
scribe in fitting language what has been
accomplished in the rapid strides made
in all the material works of mankind dur-
ing the last half century, or a little more.
	The great products of the world are
brought to one’s very doors; the gigantic
achievements in the naval, commercial,
agricultural and architectural movements
on a scientific basis are of mammoth
proportions, and indeed are too appalling
to sum up in one’s own mind.
	Sometimes in speaking of these things
one is met by the exclamation, “What
about the pyramids?” Yes, the pyramids
are doubtless one of the greatest achieve-
ments of mankind, but they took a whole
nation of people to build them, and cen-
turies of time; whereas the new inven-
tions and vast modern enterprises of
our own time have only covered a century
or little more, that is, all the greater ones.
It has not been the work of a combined
nation, but the great brain and handwork
of a few stalwarts to conceive, and a host
of skilled artisans to carry out and exe-
cute the plans, rudely thought out at
first perhaps, and developed as they ma-
tured in the mind, and in form after-
wards.
	Along intellectual, educational, artistic,
and musical advancement the pace has
been kept up in proportion to the ma-
terial and industrial growth, and again
one may say, we have no book of recent
times like the Bible, nor have we a poet
like Shakespeare, or even Milton, nor a
Raphael, or Rembrandt, Titian, or Michael
Angelo. But there are always conondrums
to be solved, and the people who ask these
puzzling questions are the ones who
should answer them for the benefit of
others.
	The human race is not going backward
but forward at a tremendous rate, and
the one thing lacking in the present age,
more than aught else is spiritual progress
to equal the mental and material. 
	There are however, some hopeful signs
of tendencies and aspirations towards
higher ideals, and permanent footholds
for greater faith in God and the spread of
everlasting truth; the words of the Savior

[Column 3]
who taught great fundamental truths in
simplicity, as He walked and talked with
His disciples in and around Galilee, are
being promulgated, and if even in a small
degree the tiny seed is scattered, it will
in due time yield precious fruit.
	The Lord has spoken from the heavens
in this day of greater progress and en-
lightenment, even as He did in times of
old to His prophets; and because of this
greater dispensation, the fulness of times,
these great manifestations of genius and
of resource have come to pass, in fulfill-
ment of the words of men who spoke by
the gift and power of the Holy Ghost
through inspiration from on high. 
	The movement of many in the interest
of peace and arbitration, is one of the
best indications of the great changes to-
wards universal peace, and assuredly
there are silent forces working for the
betterment of the world. The Lord has
set His hand to accomplish the greatest
miracle and wonder of the latter-days.
Therefore those who have understanding
and whose minds are open to receive and
to discern the truth that is being pro-
claimed, and will eventually be carried
to all nations, may expect to see greater
things than in any other age of the world,
and although men marvel at what is now
taking place in the material world, if
they search the Scriptures they will find
that much more must come to pass, and
that a greater awakening to the truth as
taught by the Savior of the world is near
at hand, and it behooves those who have
knowledge of the fulfillment of prophecy
to walk in the light, and to keep their
lamps trimmed and burning; and in all
humility teach the simple lessons of faith,
repentance and baptism for remission of
sins, and by examples of purity, devotion
and integrity, emphasize their teachings,
consecrating time and talents to the up-
building of Zion.


