SKULL VALLEY Beatrice K. Ekman Glasswort, greasewood, salt-grass, Cedared hills, sagebrush, alkali, Brackish springs, cattle bone, Desolate by day, beautiful in moonlight. Carden Making for Centennial Days Hazel D. Moyle HE limelight of the world will I be upon Utah during the year 1947, when we hold our great Centennial celebration. We have all been looking forward eagerly to this date. We have promised ourselves that when it arrived we would have our homes in order, our cities and towns beautified, and our gardens and surroundings made attractive so that we could present ourselves serenely to the world and prove that we have truly made the desert blossom as the rose. The planting around the Latter-day Saint home should receive the critical attention of every homeowner. Brigham Young considered this work of beautification of the greatest importance, even for the earliest log cabins and pioneer farms of our first settlers. President Young's counsel upon this subject is applicable to all of us as we approach the Centennial: Beautify your gardens, your houses, your farms; beautify the city. This will make us happy, and produce plenty. The earth is a good earth, the elements are good if - we will use them for our own benefit, in truth and righteousness. Then let us be content, and go to with our nights to make ourselves healthy, wealthy, and beautiful. And, speaking directly to the women of the Church, this great leader explained his ideals of homemaking in simple and exact terms: It is your right, wives, to ask your husbands to set out beautiful shade and fruit trees, and to get you some vines and flow and if your have not time, get them yourselves and plant them out. Some, perhaps, will say, "Q, I have nothing but a log house, and it is not worth that." Yes, it is worth it. I and get yines to run over the door, so that everybody who passes will say, "What a lovely little cottage!" This is your privilege and I wish you to exercise yourselves in your own rights. These words should spur our modern homeowners into action to make every home lovely with  green lawns and flowers for the coming year. But how are we to accomplish any real planting results in the short time that now remains? One answer to this problem lies in making full, abundant use of the planting season immediately before us, from the middle of August into September and early October. We can start to plant soon after the first of August with excellent results. The days are still hot, but the nights are beginning to grow cooler, with more dewfall. 'The earth is warm and fertile and teeming with vitality. Roots take hold easily in the soil at this time if they are kept moist and are shaded from the sun. Lawn seed planted in early fall germinates quickly and grows rapidly, soon forming a rich carpet of green. The lawn will then have Page 517 518 the entire fall in which to grow, and it will be well established by the time winter arrives and will continue to develop under the snow. When spring comes, the grass will leap into active growth with the first warm day. Perennial plants that are set out in the cold, wet ground of spring take root slowly, and are delayed in their blossoming, but plants that are given the advantage of early fall planting can easily become husky clumps with a full show of bloom the following year. Remember that the success of any planting depends upon four things: thorough preparation of soil; early planting (the earlier the better); shading of the plant from the hot sun while it is taking root and getting ready to grow; and constant. And abundant supply of moisture during the entire fall. And, should freezing weather arrive before the first snowfall, it will be wise to apply a mulch of leaves around the plants to protect them from being heaved out of the ground. Bestir yourself, if you would bring sparkle and color into your garden to help make the Centennial year festive and beautiful. Add such desirables to your garden as the small, low, cushion-like spring perennials that can make the season a thing of beauty. The sweet blue forget-menots for the shady spots; the foamy white arabis to bring a lacy froth along the path; the brilliant and dazzling show put out by that splendid alyssum, basket-of-gold, as many call it; or the equally brilliant and rich-toned purple aubretia, the purple rock cress. Purchase small plants of any of these and give them correct and regular care, and they will nestle down and spread out and prepare to display all their charms next spring, as well as during all the springs to come. These perennials are permanent subjects, well worth the efforts of any home gardener. Among the taller spring bloomers are anchusa myosotifolia, the forget-me-not anchusa, an eighteen-inch, blue-flowered charmer; yellow doronicum, bearing large, pure yellow, daisy-like blooms in great abundance. Doronicum is a splendid shade lover and very useful on this account. Consider columbine, too, in delicate pastel colors, and fragrant sweet rocket, to make a misty lavender haze. With these, and plenty of gay tulips, which will be available this fall, any garden can help to turn next spring into a veritable flower festival. Choose the new kinds of