Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1886 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women of ALL Nations" THE EARTH IS THE LORD'S: The ways of God are not as the ways of manner his purposes to be fathomed by the small understanding of man. He created this earth and placed his children upon it for a purpose a wise and glorious purpose to test them, to prove which of them would seek after truth and righteousness... For of such is the kingdom of heaven..  L. L. Dalton Although her mortal life was short And much of pain she knew, In patience she her sufferings bore And still was firm and true. The love of God within her heart Made all her duties light, Now in far happier scenes she dwells, And walks in robes of white.  Hannah Cornaby (Written in honor of Elizabeth F. Hanson who died June 16, 1886, at the age of twenty-one. She was a wife, a mother, and first counselor in the Young Ladies' Association of Spanish Fork, Utah.)  OGDEN CITY: Our conference was held in the Ogden Tabernacle, June 20, 1886... Conducted by our beloved President, Jane S.. Richards, with her counselors, Hattie C. Brown and Sarah I. Herrick. We had the company of apostle F. D. Richards, President L. W. Shurtliff and wife, President Eliza R. S. Smith.... After the usual exercises of singing and prayer, reading of minutes, etc., President Jane S. Richards made a few opening remarks, expressing her great joy in again meeting with her beloved brethren and sisters.... President Eliza R. S. Smith gave us, as usual, much wise instruction in regard to the sublime principles of our religion.... She felt sorry and grieved to hear of the disasters and trouble that were befalling many places in the world.... Touched upon character, conscience, the work for our dead, the law and order of tithing... And many other things, explaining each subject in a beautiful and acceptable manner.... All present felt that the spirit of the Lord rested upon her.... Long may she live to be a shining light among the saints of God.  Monta Harris, Secretary Ogden Relief Society OLD FOLKS EXCURSION, 1886: On the 22nd of July the Old Folks Excursion, which, by the way, has come to be a regular yearly occurrence, went to American Fork.... The committee, of whom Elder C. R. Savage is now acting chairman. Were in glorious spirits, and determined the old folks should have a gala day.... All over ninety wore a badge of white ribbon, over eighty wore blue, and over seventy, red.... The exercises at the grove were very brief, but pointed and spirited.... President Angus M. Cannon made a very happy patriotic speech, one that every good and loyal citizen might respond to from his innermost soul.... A. A. Lyne, the veteran actor,... Recited a scene from "William Tell," with a great deal of the old fire and zeal in his manner. Page 532