The Priesthood Quorums Expanded Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, November 5, 1946 Objective: To show that the worthy male membership of the Church is eligible to  STN my name they shall do many wonderful works," were the words of the Master to Joseph Smith and six elders assembled at Kirtland, Ohio, in September of the year 1832 (Doc. And Cov. 84:66). It was at this time that more light was thrown upon the Priesthood and its great powers and blessings for man. In my name they shall cast out devils; In my name they shall heal the sick; in my name they shall open the eyes of the blind, and unstop the ears of the deaf; And the tongue of the dumb shall speak; And if any man shall administer poison unto them it shall not hurt them. And the poison of a serpent shall not have power to harm them (Doc. And Cov. 84:67-72). Now, to note the next verse: But a commandment I give unto them; that they shall not boast themselves of these things, neither speak them before the world; for these things are given unto you for your profit and for salvation. The Lord would give unto all his sons, who had become worthy, the power he himself possessed to perform great works. And to what end? To the end that all who sought him might profit and gain personal salvation. Here is true brotherhood. In the Lord's Church, the plan is to have members banned together fraternally as a devoted body, and to work out a personal salvation b actively striving for others. This means that each male member of the Church must be given an equal chance with all others to act officially in the name of the Lord in matters pertaining to gospel ordinances. Hence came the holy Priesthood. It is a known fact today in sociology, that for successful group cooperation, there must needs be an equality of privilege, at least in so far as membership rights are concerned. How such a principle has been applied to the lay membership of churches of the world today still begs for an answer. In matters of religious ordinance and ritual it is only the priests or ministers who have the opportunity to act for the group. To select the few who might be granted powers, can but leave the average church convert a_ passive bystander. He will but look in upon ways of serving the Lord. Page 55] receive the powers and blessings of the Priesthood.. 552 It was apparent from the very beginning of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that the Lord had "his friends" (Doc. And Cov. 84:77), all of them, joining hands in the great call to serve. Every worthy member of the Church might expect the call for leadership in the Priesthood. But the plan of the Priesthood, as divinely instituted, means more than just providing men with the opportunity to serve in positions of trust. As a mortal, man sooner or later must face the personal problems of life in an intimate way. Sickness strikes, and medical aid fails. Help must come from a higher source. Trouble comes, and one feels the need to seek divine guidance. A child arrives at the age of baptism. A father's natural hope is to desire the right to perform all these ordinances for the family members. In the true Church, these personal privileges of a sacred nature may be performed by any worthy father in Zion who bears the Priesthood of God and receives the authorization from the man who holds the keys. The Lord has provided in his Priesthood for individual satisfaction as well as group service. All worthy members may have the right to act in his name, from the head of the Church to the last ordained member. Training for an understanding of this concept begins early. Boys at the age of twelve are ordained to the lesser Priesthood after the order of Aaron, as deacons. In company with other members of his quorum, each boy is assigned to the temporal duties of the Church by his bishop. He collects fast offerings, helps keep the chapel and its grounds attractive, serves on welfare projects, passes the Lord's sacrament at meetings, and responds to many other worthwhile assignments. These are duties all deacons can perform. For those in the quorum who show leadership, the call comes to serve as president, counselors, or secretary. While such offices require more responsibility, they do not add any additional rights to the office of a deacon which the least member in - the quorum holds. Not many years pass before a boy ordained as a deacon may be advanced to a teacher, and then to a priest which office is the highest in the lesser Priesthood. Within each of these callings are certain added responsibilities. These quicken a youth's religious convictions and function in his life because they provide him with activities that are of positive worth to his fellow quorum members and his Church. When the time arrives that a boy comes to the estate of young manhood, he may, through his worthiness, be advanced to the office of an elder. This calling sets him apart as a holder of the higher Priesthood after the order of Melchizedek, the great high priest who lived during the days of Abraham, and to whom Abraham came to pay tithes and offerings. The higher Priesthood bears the name of Melchizedek by express command for the purpose of avoiding the constant use of its real name, the Holy Priesthood of the Order of the Son of God. It is to this order that all worthy adult male members of the Church belong. Only special callings within this Priesthood set men apart as LESSON DEPARTMENT presidents, members of the Quorum of the Twelve, Seventies, etc. Every worthy father in Israel has the knowledge of the right this Priesthood gives him to administer to the sick, conduct a sacrament service for his family (if he lives apart from an organized ward or branch of the Church), and to teach his children the way of life with conviction as to his authoritative right to teach. In fact, such powers of the Priesthood as are given to all worthy members of the Lord's Church are so inclusive as to be the way of all life and good living both for here and hereafter. Once the full significance of the great plan of brotherhood, brought about through the function of the Priesthood, became clear to the members of the Church, the steady and enduring growth of God's kingdom upon earth was assured. It was as though the Lord had scattered abroad the good seeds of life which he knew would root and grow into the individual testimonies of thousands and thousands of saints. Today, throughout the world, Priesthood quorums are expanding. The pattern of these organizations has been so clearly marked and tested through the hundred years of growth that wherever groups of people come together and embrace 553 the faith there can be set up, immediately, the order of the Priesthood to provide the foundation and framework of the plan of life that builds character into the lives of boys and men. / These are the basic principles upon which the Lord, who is "no respecter of persons" (Acts 10:34), has builded his great Church in our day, until now, we no longer talk in terms of personalities and the personal drama of stirring events such as were known in the tender years of the little flock "who heard and believed the Prophet Joseph"; rather have we come to measure our strength in areas scattered over the face of the earth where our stakes, and our Priesthood quorums by the thousands, now exist. Yet beneath all these figures there still rests the simplicity of the gospel principle of brotherhood, upon which all great things are builded. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested reading given below, have the class carry on the discussion as follows: First answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. The Lord has promised great things, as well as given words of warning to those who would obtain the two Priesthoods in his Church. What has he said? Read Doc. And Cov. 84: 32-41. >