[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: FARLEIGH CASTLE. | Author: Unknown]

FARLEIGH CASTLE.
	Learning there were some ruins of note,
namely, Farleigh Castle, in Somerset, at
the close of a warm, sunny day in July,
comfortably seated in a Goveness (a four
seated conveyance in which two can sit on
a side) with an agreeable driver, we set out
for this far-famed castle.
	The sun was gradually sinking in the 
west; cool breezes fanned us, as we drove
briskly along. The sturdy little pony
worked with right good will, quickly get-
ting over the smooth, hard roads.
	Often I had heard of the Green Lanes of
England, and her abundance of buttercups
and daisies. Now here they were, butter-
cups and daisies, daisies and buttercups.
Everything so trim, hedges regular, and, for
the most part, well dressed. So much more
lovely than the board fences, or barbed
wire that enclose our own farms. Every-
thing here speaks of order, industry and
care-taking.
	Passing along, an old stone house of
rather large dimensions, was pointed out as
not being inhabited for years, the reason
being that long ago a young girl had
drowned herself and was brought from the
Thames river to this house, and was buried
from there, her stepmother not allowing
her to be brought home. It was the old
story of parents interfering in matters of
the heart. The mother of the young man


[Column 1]
causing him to go away that the attachment
might be thus broken up. The morning
that he left for other lands, she went to the
river and drowned herself. These things
should never occur in our day of common
sense.
	But here we are at the bottom of Farley
hill. Getting out we slowly ascend the
grand archway leading into the castle, al-
most tottering into decay, but, no doubt,
supported by the luxuriant ivy, that is
grown and interwoven through and over it
all.
	The castle in the days of its glory must
have been an immense structure. One por-
tion stands, in which are three fire places,
on as many different sides, which must 
have been rooms.
	In the upper story of this also, the ivy is
dense and twining it all around. One
more entrance, which might have been a
grand door once, on the opposite side, is all,
except portions of walls, that is left of the
castle. The church, a little lower down,
still stands in a fair degree of preservation,
being inside and beyond the castle. Enter-
ing (the guide at the door for the fee) we
see more armor and helmets than I have 
seen anywhere else, hanging all over the
walls. It must be Norman armor, as the
church is certainly Norman, and was built
in the 11th century. The stained glass
window over the altar, though somewhat
worn, is not nearly so grand as those of more
modern churches. While the pictures are
beautiful, they are much smaller than any
others that I have seen.
	On a stand in front of the altar is an old 
Bible whose letters, though English, al-
most look like some foreign characters. It 
is in a glass case under lock and key. On 
one of its open pages its history is briefly
told in writing:
	This is a copy of the First Edition of Barker’s
folio, authorized version, and was printed in 1611.
The Edition is known as the Great “He” Bible,
from a printer’s error, at Ruth III, 15th verse:
“He went into the citie,” instead of “She went,”
&c. This book has been much mutilated by visitors
to the building abstracting sheets and otherwise
defacing it. Being in a dilapitated condition, it
was re-sown in March 1899, and is now placed 
under lock and key.
	The castle formerly belonged to the noble
Hungerford family, who, no doubt, were
Normans. The arch is Norman, as also
the baptismal font in the church.
	Two chairs that belonged to the chapel,
black almost with age, still are there on
either side of the chancel; also an altar
of like wood and design, all being magnifi-
cently carved in curious characters. Christ 
hanging on the cross, with candlesticks on
either side, where the candles have been 
long removed.
	The pulpit is almost intact, save a hole in
its top where a stone from the ceiling
came crashing through. A copy of a letter
said to be the handwriting of Oliver Crom-
well is shown.
	The tombs are those of the Hungerford
family, inscriptions being in Latin. Trans-
lated one reads: “Here lieth Thomas
Hungerford, Knight, Lord of Farley, Wil-
low and Haytesburg, who died 3rd Decem-
ber, A. D. 1398. On whose soul God have
mercy. Amen.”
	Walter Hungerford was the personage
celebrated during the reign of Elizabeth, as
the rural and hospitable knight of Farley
Castle. The maxim, “Time trieth truth,”
appears to have been his favorite adage.
	On another tomb is written in Latin:

[Column 2]
“Here lieth * * * chaplain of the perpetual
Chantry, founded at the Altar of the Blessed
Virgin Mary, by Walter Hungerford, Lord
Hungerford * * * who died the 5th * * *
on whose soul may God have mercy.
Amen.”
	The stone was raised a few years ago,
and the skeleton of a young man, with
teeth quite perfect, was discovered. Time
is slowly doing its work of decay. Even
the helmets have large holes forming in
them. There are many spears as well as 
breast plates.
	A pew that belonged to the ancient
church, is about six feet long and nine
inches wide, carved into chairs for each
person. One could not think of the wor-
shippers of those days going to sleep in
such a pew as that. I think it would take
him all his time to keep in it.
	The place is damp, green on the steps
leading down to it. This is only one of
the instruments used to carry out the de-
cree, “All things shall perish.”
	The Mausoleums are very finely sculp-
tured, these being in the inner Chantry,
and others near the channel. The full 
features are fine and clearly cut, showing
the gentlemen much as they are today, and
the ladies beautiful and delicate. I looked 
over the moat of the old castle, and was
told that the water for it used to come from
seventy miles away.
	A visit to the crypts, whose steps were
green with moss. Looking through the
bars, the leaden coffins, some large and
some small, meet the eye. A chill as of
death was about the place. After peering
into the semi-darkness and discovering that
the coffins looked like stone, sunken in the
middle as the bodies crumbled to dust, we
hastily sought the clear open air, leaving
the dampness, darkness and death with a
shudder.
	In the city of Frame, not far distant, is a 
very old church; originally it was Saxon,
built by S. Aldheine, probably on this site,
about the year 680, A. D. It has been
altered and restored many times. First in
the 12th century, during the reign of
Stephen. The north and south doorways
and porches of the present church were
built then, also the doorway in the Ladye
Chapel.
	In the 13th century the Chapel Arch, the
tower and arcade of the nave, as far as the
porches, and probably the walls of the nave
were built. 
	In the 14th century, the western portion
of the arcade, the remainder of the isles 
and the west font was added.
	In the 15th century the roof of the nave
was raised, the clestory added, the tower
raised and a roof loft constructed.
	The Ladye Chapel was originally built in
the reign of Stephen, rebuilt in the reign of
Edward III, and restored during the in-
cumbency of Rev. Bennett. The Chapel
of St. John the Baptist, on the north side
of the choir, was founded in 1337, but is 
now used as an organ chamber.
	The Chapel of St. Andrew, on the south
side of the choir, was founded in 1412. It 
was restored in 1844 in memory of Bishop 
Ken.
	The Chapel of St. Nicholas, near the
north porch, was founded in 1517, the latest
portion of the whole church now used as
the baptistry.
	The restoration was begun in the year
1852, and completed in 1866. On a brass
plate on the door many of the names given

[Column 3]
above are inscribed; also “Glory be to God
alone in Christ.”
	There are many objects of interest. Old 
carved stones in the east wall of the belfry,
with some images at the west end. S.
Aldheine, the founder, S. Alban, the pro-
martyrs of England. S. Andrew, the patron
of the Diocese, and S. George, the patron
of our country.
	The windows of the nave illustrate the
life and death of St. John the Baptist; also
illustrations of the life of St. Nicholas, in
the lower compartments.
	The window of the St. Andrew’s Chap-
el includes a kneeling figure of Bishop
Ken, and a representation of the Bishop
entertaining numbers of poor persons at
his weekly feast. The east window is
very beautiful indeed, and illustrates the
sufferings of Christ which ended in the 
crucifixion; a picture of St. John the
Evangelist, with a caldron of oil; also
some of the miracles of Christ. These
windows throw such a hallowed light
through the church, that one stands with a 
feeling of awe, looking upon them and the
scenes they portray.
	This is a Church of England, but it is
called High Church, the incense burning
day and night in six red glass censers. The
confessional is being introduced, or re-
established again, leaving only the celi-
bacy of the priests to be Roman Catholic as
before, and to that church the Church of
England is rapidly tending; and not many
years hence, it looks as though it would be
swallowed up in the Catholic Church.
	These red censers are being brought
from Rome, and are to be seen in many of
the churches now. 
	Outside under the east window, is Bishop
Ken’s grave, also the late Vicar’s. A stone
wall encircles the upper side from the 
church which gradually slopes down to the
street in steps or terraces. On each terrace
is a scene from the life of Christ cut out in
stone, the figures standing boldly out from
the background. Cradled in the manger,
the flight into Egypt, teaching the doctors
in the Temple, calling His disciples, the
Sermon on the Mount, His agony in
Gethsemane, His betrayal, trial before
Pontius Pilate, then carrying the cross, one
picture where he stumbled beneath the
weight of it, where He sank down, then
where Stephen carries it to Calvary. These 
scenes are strikingly portrayed where he
stumbled and sunk down is particularly
touching. Then the scene of the cruci-
fixion: it is a beautiful theme, and the soul
of the artist is stirred within him.
	All around the church are numberless
dead of long years ago The town is built 
up all around the church and the bustle of
life goes steadily on, with scarcely a
thought of the sleepers just beside it. Un-
told numbers of England’s dead sleep in
the cities and towns, so long ago some of
them passed to the other life, that the
letters cut in stone have become obliterated
by Time, whose unerring finger points to
the end of all things earthly. Who shall
name them? The breeze as it sighs among
them, whispers “Who?”
	Trowbridge, July, 1899.
