[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec. | Author: I. F. S]

			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OBITUARY.
HELEN RIDLEY WEBB.
	Mrs. Helen Ridley Webb was born in the City
of London, England, May 29, 1815, and died in
Salt Lake City, Utah, U. S. A., September 22,
1899. Her father, William Ridley, was descended
in a direct line from the famous Nicholas Ridley,
Bishop of London, crown chaplain in the 16th
century, an eminent and learned Divine, distin-
guished not only in the annals of literature and
art, but in the higher and perilous fields of social
and religious reform, at a period when superstition
and fanatacism bound the very souls of men, and
often sealed in silence the lips of such as fain
would be champions of right and humanity, or
doomed them to the dungeon and the stake, where
terminated the mortal career of Bishop Ridley.
But the fires of bigotry which consumed his body
only served to set at liberty the undying spirit of
human right and religious freedom, which we find
bursting forth again, though in a modified degree,
in the life and character of Helen, who, like her
great ancestor, became early in life impressed with
the idea that the religious sects of the day had
deviated from the original plan of human redemp-
tion, that some vital principle was missing from
the perfect scheme. While in this form of mind
she met with the Mormon missionaries early in
1850. She carefully investigated their doctrines,
and became convinced that they possessed that
which had been missing, and forthwith identified
herself with them.
	Her husband, Samuel Whitehead Webb, to
whom she had been married July 10, 1836, also
embraced the same faith, and for a time ran well,
but his ardor cooled, his faith failed and eventual-
ly he stepped aside altogether. Then she realized
to its fullest extent what it is to stand alone, but
her strength was equal to her day. She conse-
crated herself and her future, and commenced her
life’s work in earnest.
	One of her first moves was to suggest, and, with
aid from the proper authorities, organized a Sab-
bath School at Camden Town, London, in the
year 1854, which proved a complete success, and
in it she labored diligently until her emigration in
1877.
	She was the mother of tweve children, six sons

[Column 2]
and six daughters, four of whom preceded her to
Utah, and her youngest, Fredrick O. Webb, fol-
lowed later.
	On her arrival here she settled in the 20th
ward, which was divided soon after and she was
in the 21st ward, with Captain Andrew Burt
as Bishop, and H. J. Foulger and W. L. N. Allen as
Counselors. The new ward was organized as
usual with a Relief Society, in which she became
an active and zealous member. A Sabbath School
with a primary department, to which she was called.
Only those familiar with teaching can fully realize
the peculiar tact and skill required in the success-
ful management of such a department; for it is in
the primary or infant school that the foundation is
laid for the future moral and intellectual structure.
For such work Sister Webb was by nature amply
qualified, hence she made a success of this, too.
A general organization for social and intellectual
purposes was formed, composed of both sexes and
all ages, called the “Twenty First Ward Mutual
Improvement Association.” She was one of the
first to volunteer for membership. Here, as every-
where else, she rendered valuable service, prompt-
ly responding to every call made upon her by the
committee on programs, on which committee she
was in turn called to serve. 
	Her co-workers, and those who knew her best,
saw in all she did and all she said, the individual
stamp of her native modesty and dignity. She
was remarkably patient and enduring, firm as the
hills, her word could be counted on, for it was in
very deed her bond. She was proud and sensitive,
and self-dependent as far as possible, and at this
time supported herself by teaching a private
school Thus fully employed she steadily pursued
the even tenor of her way, blessing and being
blessed, until the infirmities of nature forced her
into retirement, where her chief pleasure was to
converse on the redemption of the race, and the
principles of the Gospel as revealed to the Prophet
Joseph, when her friends called upon her to chat
with, or read to her, the beaming countenance and
sparkling eye was ample reward for their trouble.
	During her busy days she had not neglected her
Temple duties. All that circumstances would per-
mit had been done. Therefore, there was nothing
left for her to do but meekly fold her hands and
say, “Now, O Lord, let Thine handmaid depart
in peace,” and it was verily so. At the close of
day, when men seek their couches for natural rest,
she sought hers, slightly ailing, it is true, but
nothing to alarm, no racking pain, no agonizing
struggle, only somewhat labored breathing. In a
natural voice she asked for water which was given
her and which she drank. Then turning slightly
over, she breathed her last.
	Two only of her children were with her, the rest
were summoned. Their shock can be imagined,
but not described. Was it possible? Surely this
could not be death! Piteously they called upon
her to speak to them once more, only once. But
all was silence. She had said her say, she had
finished her work, her record was sealed and her
example before them.
	Another earthly race is run,
	Another glorious victory won,
	Another grave on the hillside made,
	Another Saint to rest is laid,
	Another empty chair have we,
	A place with the great redeemed has she,
	Sleep, darling mother, sweetly sleep!
	For thou no more shalt wake to weep.
								I. F. S.


