[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE | Author: ALICE BURKE]

DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE 
REVOLUTION.
BY ALICE BURKE.
(Conclusion.)
	Deborah knew her only safety lay in part-
ing from him. She feared she might be-
tray herself if she stayed, for she grew 
restive under the necessity of concealing 
her identity, for never had she been so in-
terested in any one as she was in him. The 
power he exerted over her made her only 
safe in retreat. She dared not look into her 
soul and find a deeper feeling for him,
though she knew too well it was there, so 
now she made light of his earnestness.
	“Dr. Ben,” she said, “It’s useless trying 
to tie me down. My nature is wild and 
free. I want to be away.”
	“As you please then. I’m sorry. Yet, 
Rob, I know that some day you will return 
to me. Good-bye, my boy.”
	He clasped her hands with a strong pres-
sure. His manly countenance grew pale as 
he gazed at her. She saw the anxious 
look, but left him to go to the tent, where 
she packed up a few things and in a little 
while she was gone.
	Ben Gannett meantime went to head-
quarters to see the General. Day after day 
he waited, but no trace of Deborah. She 
meanwhile wandered rather aimlessly 
through the camps, engaged in one or two
expeditions, trying to find the only peace 
she could in forgetfulness. It would not 
come, and finally she became disheartened 
and found that she only had one day to 
reach Washington on the Colonel’s com-
mission. She hastened thither at once.
	She dressed herself in full dress regiment-
als and seemed a gallant youth, as she was 
shown into the presence of General Wash-
ington. He received her with the mem-
bers of his staff about him. The room was 
spacious and three or four long French 
windows allowed the sunlight to glisten 
over the place. The golden rays fell full 
upon the slight figure of Deborah, on the 
gold bands and gilt buttons and hat, with 
its cockade of red, white and blue, and
lighted her inspired face, her gleaming 
eyes and parted lips showing the white 
teeth as she paused in expectancy, waiting 
to hear the General’s orders.
	The hour was midday and the sun was at 
its brightest. Yet while it fell upon 
Deborah, it left one part of the room in 
comparative shadow. She had an un-
comfortable feeling that some one was 
standing looking out, but she did not turn 
to make sure, for she was curious to watch 
Washington, and she became agitated as 
she stood there, with all those great men 
gazing at her. But while she looked at the
General’s noble countenance a great calm-
ness came over her and she delivered the
Colonel’s letter into his hands and stood at 
attention, waiting.
	The room was very still; no sound but 
the rustle of the paper as Washington 
turned a page. When he finished reading 
it he looked at her kindly.
“And you are Robert Shirtliffe,” he said 

[Column 2]
gently. “You are to be commended for 
your bravery.”
	The man in the window turned instantly 
as the General spoke, but Deborah did not 
heed him. She fell on one knee saying,
“Your blessing, General.”
	He gave it and conferred upon her the 
honorary badge of distinction established 
by him. He proceeded to put into her 
hand a discharge from the army, a note of 
praise as well and a few words of advice 
and farewell.
	She rose to withdraw, but some one stood 
beside her. She recognized Ben Gannett.
	Robert,” he exclaimed.
	“You here,” she said in confusion.
	They made their adieus to Washington 
and his staff and departed.
	As they found themselves in the street 
Deborah asked, “How did you come here?”
	“To wait for you, Rob. I wanted to be 
here when you came to help you,” he
answered, with an unmistakable meaning 
in his glance.
	She blushed uncomfortably. He knew 
her secret! She hastily tore open Wash-
ington’s letter containing her dismissal 
from the army and the note of praise for a
woman’s bravery and a bit of advice to a
madcap’s wildness. She laughed nervous-
ly as she said to Ben, “And you, sir, have 
you known my secret, too?”
	“Yes,” he said, laughing with her.
“And now let’s hurry and get to camp.”
	“I’m going home,” she said thought-
fully, “and you will come and see me later
on.”
	“If you want me,” he replied.
	“Of course I want you,” she said.
“How thankful I am,” she continued, “to
that great and good man who so kindly 
spared my feelings. He saw me ready to 
sink with shame. One word from him at 
that moment would have crushed me to the 
earth, but he spoke no word and I bless 
him for it.”
	“You are right, Deborah,” he said, call-
ing her for the first time by her own name 
and she gave him a glance of pleasure.
“General Washington is a noble man.”
	A few months later Ben Gannett rang 
the bell of a humble house in Plympton.
Deborah opened the door for him. She 
was in a pale lavender muslin, her dark 
curls grown a trifle longer, encircling her 
lovely face. The glow of health once 
more showed on her cheeks, her eyes 
beamed with pleasure at beholding him.
	“Ben,” she said, after the greeting, “I
am so glad to see you.”
	She led him into the living room. On a 
hook in a corner hung an army cap and 
sword, and close by her rifle. “See,” she
went on, “the remains of my service to my
country.”
	The enthusiasm, the inspiration lighting 
her dark eyes told him that she had not 
overcome that absorbing passion for her 
country. He did not seek to stifle it, in-
stead he remarked:
	“Yes. Deborah, I see, and who knows, 
you may have occasion to use them again?”
	“No, I think not,” she said. “I have
been away from home so long that I al-


[Column 1]
most forgot my duties here with mother.”
	As he watched her he became more de-
lighted with her womanliness and sweet-
ness.
	“Deborah,” he said, after a while and
during a pause, “I have come here for a
purpose today.”
	“A purpose,” she repeated.
	The room with its ancient furniture, the
great fireplace, where the logs blazed, was
impressed indelibly upon the minds of the
two there, each expectant of the other, each
knowing that a new era was about to open
out before them—an era of some great joy.
	Ben could see his love where she stood by
the fireplace, looking down into the danc-
ing flames, as higher they leaped in a mad
race as if each one wished to go higher than
the other, then were put backwards as
others pushed themselves into their places.
	“Life is like that,” Deborah said thought-
fully, “like the flames. We try to push
ourselves into other’s places. Don’t we,
Ben?”
	“Perhaps. But no one could push them-
selves into your place, Deborah,” he said
earnestly.
	“And why not, Ben?”
	“Because, dear, I love you, and want
only you—you for my wife, dear.”
	“Is it true? you love me after all?” she
asked hesitatingly.
	“Quite true, Deborah. I have loved
you for a long time.”
	“And you really want me, Ben?”
	“Yes, dear.”
	They stood a moment in silence. The
ruddy fanciful light fell over them. He
seemed to her an invincible presence, an
ideal she had dreamed of all her life, and
there he stood before her in veritable truth.
	While she was to him the woman he
loved. Very beautiful, a being who seemed
to him far beyond him in goodness.
	“Tell me, Deborah,” he said, in an in-
sistent voice, “what I want to know. Tell
me, dear.”
	“’Tis love, Ben. I love you,” she said
caressingly.
	He went close to her and looked into her
face. He studied the brave eyes and the
careless, almost reckless courage of the
determined mouth. He knew he must be
strong to control such a nature, but he had
no fear.
	“She underwent the scrutiny calmly.
	“Well,” she said, will you have me for
better or worse? and it’s most like worse.”
	“I wasn’t thinking of that, Deborah,”
he said. “I was thinking of myself and
wondering if I am worthy of' you and
thinking of my happiness in the knowledge
that you love me. Yes, sweetheart, I take
you for better or worse.”
	He drew her to him close within his
arms, kissing her.
	“My love, my love,” he said in low
tones, and Deborah found her happiness at
last in the strong nature revealed to her in
Ben Gannett and his undying love for her.
	In the following April, on the seventh of
that month, 1774, they were married.
	The year that followed she was asked by
Washington to again visit the seat of
government as a guest. So with her hus-
band she returned thither. She was feted
and made much of, attending receptions
given by the officers. She was given a
pension for life.
	At one of the most notable receptions a
request was furthered to her that the people
wished to see her in her regimentals and

[Column 2]
implored her to appear before them thus 
apparelled.
	Deborah hesitated but Ben encouraged
her to comply with the demand, and finally
she sent home for the suit.
	When the memorable night came, she
was in full dress uniform once more, and
carried the self-same rifle which had been
her trusty friend through the war.
	Her curls were tucked under the Wash-
ington hat she wore, and as she stood wait-
ing for Ben, she was a fine youth to behold.
When her husband joined her he stooped
first to kiss her, then said, “My lad once
more, and my love.”
	She laughed merrily.
	“Take care, sir, I may join the service
again.” she said.
	They were shortly entering the large
room where the reception took place.  Men
in gold lace and satin knickerbockers, dia-
mond buckles and lace frills crowded about
them. A hundred candles in tall brass
candlesticks suffused the light. Some one
was singing to the accompaniment of a
spinet. The women in their flowered silks
and satin petticoats and high-heeled slip-
pers and gorgeous buckles, also joined the
crowd around Deborah, who was worthy of
their attention in her brave accoutrements
and her charming face alight with gayety,
her eyes dazzling in their brilliancy.
	An earnest request was given from
Washington to have her go through the
manual of arms with her rifle, which she
readily consented to do. They said of her
afterwards. “She could make a gun talk.”
	But Deborah grew tired of this social
whirl and in a few days they returned
home.
	Dr. Gannett had abandoned his profes-
sion and interested himself about a large
farm, which had been handed down to him
from his ancestors, somewhere in Sharon.
He thoroughly enjoyed the life and though
he had plenty of men to carry on the rough
work, Deborah frequently found him toiling
in the fields on a cool summer’s eve with a
large wide-brimmed hat on his head and in
a suit of home-spun, and she would bid
him come with her for a walk to the sum-
mit of the hill, where they would pause and
watch the moon steal up from the valley,
and later its effulgence would touch the
scene with a glamor of dreaminess and mys-
tery.
	And Deborah clasped her hands about his
arm and said, “It’s very beautiful here,
very beautiful.”
	“Yes,” he answered. “How happy we
are, you and I together. For our life is
love, dear, all of love to live, dear, just
with you.”
	“We’ve had our trial, Ben, haven’t we?”
she continued, as they returned homeward,
“yet I regret nothing of the past, of that
past of my life when I served my country,”
she ended.
	“I know that, Deborah, but now you be-
long to me,” he said firmly.
	“Yes, and I’m not sorry for that either,”
she said gaily.
	They walked slowly through the moon-lit
meadows, while before them the radiance
of the river, on the hills, shimmered seem-
ingly with peace and joy, guiding them
ever onward.
		American Monthly Magazine.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE hospital ship, Princess of Wales,
which has just sailed from England for
Cape Town, was paid for by the Princess.


