[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: WAYSIDE NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

		WAYSIDE NOTES.
	A hurried journey by train is seldom
very interesting late in the Autumn, when
gray is the prevailing color in the land-
scape, and the road runs far and away from
the largest towns, only skirting the outside
edge to call one, two or three minutes at
stations to take on passangers, or allow
them barely time to jump off. However,
we did get a glimpse of a muddy river here
and there, and American Falls, which
diversify the scenery just a little, and are
always a momentary delight to the weary
traveler. A dining car en route is a posi-
tive luxury, and when one finds it has been
left at some station by the way, it is sure
to be disappointing. All things considered,
the trip to Northern Idaho was pleasant
until we had to change from a Pulman to
an accommodation train and stay over night
at a country hotel. However, one who
writes can occupy the time, if there is noth-
ing more important to be done; though
when one is expected to furnish an original
sentiment for an exceptional gathering of
relatives and friends, one needs to be in-
spired, and a railway train and country
hot 1 are not specially inviting to a way-
ward muse.
	Here we heard the latest news from the
court at Moscow (not in Russia, but in
Idaho) of the decision concerning strikers,
and saw some of the men who had been
in the “Bull Pen,” but were released and
were now staying at “The Wayside Inn”
at Tekoa, Washington, where we were to
pass the night.
	Early next morning the train for Wallace
was ready, and we pulled out in eager ex-
pectancy of soon reaching our destination.
The day was not as bright as we could have
wished for an anniversary party, but the
sun shone later on, and when we arrived in
Wallace the clouds had nearly disappeared. 
We who live in Utah hardly realize how 
much sunshine we have, until we go far to
the north, where lights are often necessary
at high noon, and always by four in the
afternoon in winter time. Several of the
family were at the station and we were
very soon greeted by all the dear ones who
had gathered for the silver wedding party.
		THE SILVER WEDDING.
	The house was decorated so profusely it
was like a fairy bower of vines and flowers,
artistically arranged and festooned, a real
work of art; in such an Eden one might
have hoped to see one of the “divine nine,”

[Column 2]
but, alas, the time had fled, and very soon 
the guests would arrive.
	The library adjoining the parlor was pre-
pared for the bride and groom to receive
the congratulations in. The bay window
was embowered in beauty even before the
happy couple stood there under the yoke of
green coptis leaves, smilax and roses, with
the figures 1874 and 1899 in silver at oppo-
site corners.
	The bride wore a white satin gown
covered with white silk tulle, embroidered
in silver bow knots, and carried a lorgnette
of pearls, a delicate ivory fan and pale pink
and white roses, with long stems, fine
white slippers with silver clasps, and lace
and silver ornaments in her dark hair. She
looked quite as lovely, but not as shy, as on
her wedding day twenty-five years before.
The bridegroom was attired in the regula-
tion black broadcloth and immaculate linen
collar and cuffs etc., and white silk tie.
	The two daughters wore black silk tulle
over black satin bespangled with brilliants
and profusely trimmed with real lace.
Many of the ladies of the party were very
elegantly gowned, and the gentlemen were
in evening dress, even the military officers,
except one or two young Lieutenants, who
wore their handsome uniforms.
	The parlor, hall and dining room har-
monized in decorations with the library,
carnations, roses and chrysanthemums,
fragrant and abundant, in every nook and
corner.
	There were many handsome and some
very exquisite (silver) gifts, many of them
from other states, as well as a number given
by the fifty or more guests present.
	Besides other delicious refreshments
daintily served, there was a large wedding
cake with the significant figures that marked
the date of the former happy wedding party
in the “dear old home” on State Street.
	Alas, how much has transpired in this
quarter of a century!
	There was some fine instrumental music
by one of the gentlemen, and Mrs. Daisie
Allen rendered in her fine, sympathetic
voice, two or three songs. Mrs. Verona
Hillard afterwards sang some light, airy
melodies, and the “Little Mother,” by
urgent request, read the verses composed
en route.
	The guests when departing, each in turn,
in the most elaborate language and with
hearty good will, hoped the host and
hostess might live to celebrate their golden
wedding anniversary in prosperity and
happiness. The party certainly passed off
pleasantly, and it will assuredly be a happy
memory in the lives and hearts of those
whose anniversary was thus celebrated, be-
cause of the warm fellowship and kindly
feeling manifested by all assembled.
		
