[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. | Author: Unknown]

GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The October Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, in this city, Thursday, October 5,
1899, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Zina D. H. Young presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “Come let us
anew.” Prayer by President Ann C.
Woodbury. Singing, “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Roll called, eigh-
teen presidents present. Minutes of morn-
ing conference of April last read and
accepted. Minutes of officers’ meeting in
April last read and accepted.
	President Young stated that the morning
would be occupied in hearing from the
presidents of the various Stakes, and made
some explanatory remarks in regard to
Stake conferences being held quarterly, or
semi-annually.
	President Susanna P. Booth, of Box
Elder Stake, and Lucy S. Cardon, of Cache
Stake, were in favor of conference twice a
year.
	President Zina Y. Card, of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Alberta Stake, stated that in
that Stake they only held conference twice
a year, and that there were so many organ-
izations, that was considered best for them.
	President Emma J. Bennett, Bingham, said
they only held two conferences in a year.
	President Mary A. Hyde, Sanpete, said
they had always held quarterly conferences,
but alternated from one part of the county
to another, which made a difference, and
did not seem to be too much. She was
willing to conform to the decision.
	President M. Isabella Horne, Salt Lake
Stake, thought it advisable under some
circumstances, but Salt Lake Stake was so
much larger than any other, and if there
were but two conferences it would certainly
be necessary for each branch to have an
annual meeting, which would enable them
to make a showing of their work.
	President Cornelia Mortensen, of San
Luis Stake, said it had never been conven-
ient to hold conferences but twice a year,
but the sisters were alive to their duties.
This was the first time she had enjoyed the
privilege of attending the General Confer-
ence, and was very grateful for the oppor-
tunity to do so.
	Dr. M. C. Roberts spoke of having anoth-
er class in nursing, students to come from
other Stakes, and gave some advice in re-
gard to what was needful, and said that we
should as a people employ when sick
those of our own faith, and made other re-
marks pertinent to the subject.
	President M. Isabella Horne addressed
the sisters, urging them to awake to their
duties and responsibilities and to attend
these conferences and get spiritual strength.
If the president was not able to attend send
a representative, some one authorized to
speak for the Stake, and to take home the
teaching given for the building up of the
society.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith was glad
to hear about the nursing class, we want
several nurses in each branch society.
Spoke earnestly about paying tithing and
upon punctuality, it was an important thing
in life; also urged the sisters to be diligent
in the work for the dead, said Joseph the
Prophet was anxious upon this subject.
Spoke of our keeping our second estate, as


[Column 1]
well as our first, and be diligent in season
and out of season
	President Horne made some further re-
marks about the training of nurses, and that
it should be under the auspices of the
Relief Society. Felt very thankful it had
been such a success in this Stake. The
sick should be taken care of by experienced
sisters.
	President Mary A. Call, of Bannock
Stake, asked some questions about the
financial matters, which were answered
satisfactorily. She made some very appro-
priate remarks and urged all to faithfulness,
also to be humble.
	President Young alluded to the society
everywhere observing the 17th of March, and
was sure a blessing would follow. Referred
to the Prophet turning the key of knowl-
edge for women and the wonderful things
that had since transpired. “Remember
what blessings have been pronounced
upon the handmaids of the Lord since that
day. I feel as though I was looking upon
the faces of the angels when I look at my
sisters and know what they have passed
through and endured and borne, and the
sacrifices they have made. Let us live so
that we may know what is best for us.”
	After some instructions in reference to
tithing, which were in answer to questions
that had been asked by the sisters from a
distance, the congregation joined in singing
“Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah.”
	The secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells, stated
that President Jane S. Richards and Presi-
dent Sarah J. Cannon were both absent
from the conference, detained at home
through sickness in their families, and re-
quested that they be mentioned in the
closing prayer, and that all unite their faith
in behalf of the sick, that they might be
restored to health.
	Benedicton was pronounced by President
Horne.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m. President Zina
D. H. Young presiding, opened with sing-
ing “Our God we raise to Thee.” Prayer
by President F. A. Hammond. Continued
by singing “For the strength of the hills.”
Minutes of afternoon session of the April
conference read and accepted. 
	President Mary Pitchforth, Juab Stake,
reported everything favorable of the society
except Eureka, which it was intended to
reorganize very soon. She rejoiced in the
work of the society and the Latter dispen-
sation of the fulness of times. Gave some
items from her experience and alluded
briefly to the time when Apostle Woodruff
came to England and baptized nearly all the
society of United Brethren, and she, a
young girl, offered herself for baptism. Her
family were all opposed, but she had been
thankful then and ever since that she heard
the true Gospel and had been able to en-
dure all trials and persecutions, and had
been abundantly blessed.
	President Mary John, Utah Stake, made
an excellent report of work accomplished,
and referred to the quantity of grain stored
and the good feeling manifest throughout
the county when she visited the Stake.
	President Lucy Grant, Woodruff Stake,
reported the society in good condition, had
visited all the branches during the summer.
They held officers’ meetings regularly.
Theirs being a new Stake, they had not yet
commenced to lay up grain, but intended to
this fall.
	Counselor Angeline Hinckley gave a

[Column 2]
good report of Millard Stake and of the
work the sisters were doing, trying to carry
out the counsel given by the General Board.
	Sister Priscilla Jennings spoke of her visit
abroad in her native land, and the geneal-
ogical work she had been able to do, also
some missionary work, and had met with
the Relief Society in Stratford, near Lon-
don. She had also spoken to the Relief
Society in Birmingham, and had spoken on
other occasions, and was willing to work in
the Lord’s vineyard. She alluded to the
time when the iceberg struck the City of
Rome on her return trip across the Atlantic,
and the assurance of safety she had, be-
cause of a dream in which she had con-
versed with her husband, the late Hon.
Wm. Jennings. Sister Jennings made
other interesting remarks.
	President Temperance Hinckley, Fre-
mont Stake, spoke of a visit through the
county recently made, when she had the
pleasure of having Sister L. L. Greene
Richards accompany her; the trip occupied
two weeks. Everywhere they had good
meetings and the Spirit of the Lord was
richly poured out. In some wards the
society was almost entirely composed of
young married women, in fact, all the
young married women in the Stake were
enrolled in the Relief Society.
	Counselor Mary A. White, Beaver Stake,
regretted President C. C. Shepherd was not
present, but she had visited the Stake with
her and found the society in all the branches
in good condition, the sisters striving to do
their whole duty. She also bore her testi-
mony and exhorted the sisters to teach their
children to be honest and industrious. We
should speak kindly to each other while
here in this life, and not wait until after
death, but do more good to each other now.
Virtue, she said, was better than riches, let
us be pure in our lives; and our tithing
should not be forgotten,
	Counselor Mary Bagley, Bear Lake Stake,
reported there was not a case of sickness in
their entire Stake, but there was a society
sister to attend to the sick. Spoke in the
highest terms of praise of President Julia
Lindsay and the good work she was
accomplishing, though she was 76 years of
age.
	President Jane S. Coleman, Wayne
Stake, gave a glowing account of what had
been done in that county in the interest of
silk-culture, the thousands of mulberry
trees put out last spring, and more would
be planted the coming year. They also
had several houses of their own and a
thousand bushels of wheat stored—an ex-
cellent showing throughout.
	Following this, President Zina D. H.
Young spoke most emphatically upon silk
culture, and enjoined it upon the society as a
duty that should be considered important.
Spoke of President Young’s work in this
direction, his advice to the Latter-day Saints
to make sericulture one of the chief indus-
tries of this country, and the blessings that
would follow if his counsel were obeyed.
Regretted the indifference of the people
and entreated the sisters to do their utmost
to promote the silk industry, and first of all,
to set out cuttings of the mulberry.
	Several of the sisters told what had been
done for silk in different places. President
John said three hundred pounds of cocoons
had been raised in Provo.
	President Hammond represented San
Juan Stake, in the absence of his wife. He
said he always had been interested in Relief
Society meetings, knew the sisters taught

[Column 3]
righteousness and virtue and every good
thing. They held conference at the same
time as the brethren, once a year, and it
took a month to do it, the distance was
so great. In Bluff ward they were
just about finishing a new Relief Society
hall. “I don’t know anything to limit the
good cause in which you are engaged—you
who have stood the battle and the breeze in
the building up of Zion in the waste places
of the earth. My blessing upon you and
your colaborers in righteousness every-
where. The mothers in Israel have estab-
lished through this society a grand school
for our sisters. Encourage each other to
persevere in the paths of wisdom, truth and
light, and may the Lord bless every effort
in the interest of truth.”
	Miss Bessie Edmonds favored the audience
with a beautiful song; her sweet voice was
like a peal of music from above. Professor
Evan Stephens kindly accompanied her on
the organ, to both of whom the sisters were
very grateful for the courtesy.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, realized the importance of the society
work. Since August she with other sis-
ters, had traveled over three hundred miles
and held nineteen meetings. In St. George
the silk industry had a good start, and much
had been done through united effort. She
gave some definite information from those
experienced judges who had examined the
quality of silk raised in Dixie, that was
quite encouraging. She always felt to
press forward in every good work, temporal
or spiritual. Bore a strong testimony of
the truth of the Gospel.
	President Joseph E. Taylor, of the Salt
Lake Stake, realized there was not time to
enter largely into one subject, but spoke
ardently of the silk industry, and of his
knowledge of President Brigham Young’s
efforts to establish it as a permanent industry
early in the settlement of Utah. He in-
structed the society to do all that was pos-
sible to make a success of the enterprise.
President Taylor referred incidentally to
other matters pertaining to the duties and
responsibilities of the sisters in the benevo-
lent work among the destitute, the sick and
the afflicted, and other obligations resting
upon the women of Zion, and blest them in
their noble work in the name of the Lord.
	President Zina D. H. Young made a few
closing remarks and announced the evening
meeting.
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us.” Benedic-
tion, President Hammond.
	Evening meeting at 7 o’clock, President
Zina D. H. Young presiding, commenced
with singing “Glorious things of thee are
spoken,” by the Young Ladies’ choir of
the 20th ward, Mrs. Mary F. Kelly leader.
Prayer by Bishop Nymphas Murdock.
Singing, “Should you be inclined to cen-
sure.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke
upon the grand work of the Relief Society
and the love she had for such benevolent
labors; also spoke of the divine mission of
Joseph Smith and the greatness of his work
upon the earth. Rejoiced in the work now
being done in the Temples of our Lord,
said that was the work to which she was
devoting most of her time, and entreated
the sisters not to neglect those of their rela-
tives who had passed away without a
knowledge of the Gospel. “May we be able
to understand and receive the blessings of
the celestial kingdom with Joseph the
Prophet, who was one of the greatest men,
perhaps the greatest except the Savior, and


we shall know and be satisfied if we can
only be faithful, we shall meet those we
love who have gone behind the vail.”
	Sister Zina Y. Card spoke enthusiastically
for Canada.
	President Emma J. Bennett, Bingham
Stake, Idaho, referred especially to the
spirit and gifts manifest in the sisters’
meetings.
	The choir of young girls then sang an
anthem, “Leaf by Leaf.”
	Mary A. Rattenberry, of San Francisco,
reported the society there and referred to
the excellent benevolent work of the sisters
in that great city; also spoke of the visits
of Presidents Woodruff, Cannon and Smith
and of President Richards and his wife,
and of the good counsel they had given the
society, and the promises which had been
made to them if they continued in the work.
	Sister Caroline Bowman reported Sevier
Stake.
	President Cornelia Mortensen, San Luis
Stake, gave a very extended report of the
work done in that locality, praised the sis-
ters there for their noble efforts under so
many difficulties in pioneering a new settle-
ment. Referred with great satisfaction to
the union among the sisters, and that they
refrained from speaking ill of one another.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde spoke of the
good work accomplished in this Stake of
Zion, and especially the good work done by
the nurses trained under the auspices of the
Relief Society by Dr. Margaret C. Roberts.
The society had good supplies of the com-
forts necessary in attendance upon the sick,
and the faces of these nurses in the sick
room was like the angels ministering to
those in pain. Sister Hyde alluded to
her conversations with Professors in the
East while abroad in the spring, and their
astonishment concerning what she had told
them of our Relief Society charitable work.
	President Zina D. H. Young addressed
the sisters a few minutes. She said: “We
shall overcome by the word of testimony
and the power of the anointing.” She
then spoke in the gift of tongues, interpre-
tation given by Sister Card.
	The Young Ladies’ choir sang beautiful-
ly “Who are these arrayed in white.” Con-
ference adjourned till April, 1900. Prayer
by President Lucy S. Cardon.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


78				WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.				79


