[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: A VISIT TO STRATFORD-ON-AVON. | Author: Unknown]

A VISIT TO STRATFORD-ON-AVON.
	A perfect day in July, and a landscape as
beautiful as it is possible for scenery to be,
Tuesday, July 19, 1899, when we took a
morning train in Nottingham for Stratford-
on-Avon. One’s anticipations have some-
thing to do with one’s enjoyment generally,
and the thought of visiting the immortal
Shakespeare’s birthplace, and the scenes of
his activity, where he lived and loved and
wrote and became famous, to an ardent
admirer of his genius was sufficient to
make everything appear glorious, if even
the day had been dull and the journey
tiresome. But such was not the case; the
part of country through which we traveled
was charming. There were many fine
towns and villages, and the great city of
Birmingham, of which we could, from the
railway, only see the signs of its busy
manufacturing appearance, though we
afterwards had a fine visit there. We
passed, on the way, many handsome villas
and gentlemen’s country seats, some of
them well-known to our pleasant traveling
companion, who was familiar with many
parts of England, where his early life had
been spent. We reached Stratford-on-Avon
about 2 p. m., and went direct to the Fal-
con, a very old-fashioned inn, where we
had been informed there were many curi-
ous and ancient articles, typical of the
Shakespeare period.
	We found we were too late for the lunch
hour, but were directed to a Shake-
speare restaurant a short distance up the
street, quite as quaint as the inn itself.
	We made some inquires at the Falcon
from the hostess, who had already assigned
us rooms previous to our going out, and
had informed us that the room given the
writer had been Marie Correlli’s room when
she was a guest at the Falcon, and where
she had written “The Sorrows of Satan.”
The furniture was very old style—high 
post bedstead with heavy silk curtains and
bell with long silken cord, which was one
of a chime of nine bells, each having a
name attached over each respective bell in
the hall below, which was also the name of
the room; this one was called Silence.
We sallied forth to see the town and learn
all we could of its curious history. The
streets were narrow, and gave one the feel-
ing of antiquity; the houses were old and
many of them entirely different in style to
those we had seen in other parts of Eng-
land. Now and then, a house that looked
fresh and new was seen, but the tendency
seemed to be towards keeping up the

[Column 2]
Shakespearian period, and that is no doubt
the object.
	The Parish Church near by, was not so
different from many other churches except
for its history. This is the church where
the great Shakespeare was baptized on April
26, 1564, and as it was usual to baptize at
three days old, the 23rd of April is regarded
as the birthday of the great poet. The rec-
ord reads Gulielmus filius Johannes
Shakespeare.
	It has been remodeled considerably, but the
situation is fine, on the banks of the historic
river Avon, a placid stream overhung with
magnificent trees. At the hour we climbed
to the top of the tall steeple, the river was
dotted with pretty little skiffs, and girls and
boys in yachting costumes, merrily singing,
chatting and laughing, leisurely rowing
along the shores a picturesque sight, fit
for a poet’s pen or an artist’s brush.
Portions of the church are said to date
from the time of the Conquest, and to have
been built on the site of an old Saxon
church. Some parts have been pulled
down, rebuilt and beautified. Altogether
its history is interesting, but a description
of the church would take too much space
and is not strictly a part of our visit.
	From there we wended our way to
Shakespeare’s house, low and rambling,
where we were shown the chimney corner
so famous for the many recollections of fire-
side conversation. It is said that at this
chimney corner of Shakespeare’s father,
who was Councilor and Bailiff, two of the
highest positions in the town council, all
sorts and conditions of men gathered to dis-
cuss the affairs of town and state; also the
gossips, who only talked of commonplace
matters, and travelers who brought the
news of the great world. This house,
where Willie played in his infancy and
childhood, is visited by thousands of pil-
grims every year.
	After wandering through the rooms in
the Shakespeare house, and reflecting upon
the many incidents one has heard and read,
one feels scarcely fit to mingle with the
fresh, breezy people of the world; neverthe-
less, when the twilight was coming on,
and we were turning corners and angles of
the crooked streets, we came upon “Ye
Halle Crofte,” where the lady of the Falcon
had told us Marie Correlli was lodged,
writing two books, also that she refused
absolutely to see any one. However, when
one has traveled seven thousand miles one
is not easily discouraged at trifles, so we
made bold to lift the great brass knocker.
A porter in livery opened the door, and
when he saw only a timid little woman,
seemed greatly astonished. The errand
was soon made clear, and he said he would
do his best to procure an interview, and to
come at. 9:15 or later, considering the cir-
cumstances. Leaving a card for the great
author, we hurried to overtake our friend,
who was still wandering among the old,
historic places.
	After dinner or tea (one cannot always
remember which) we donned our best
traveling apparel, and, at the appointed
time, again lifted the brass knocker, and
the same fine porter opened the door and
his face was wreathed in smiles when he
said, “My lady will see you.”
	The house is quaint; there are three gables
front and everything betokens peculiarity.
The great beams overhead in the entrance
room, which one would judge had been a
living room, are lettered. The first to at,
tract the eye, immediately facing the door-

[Column 3]
is a welcome to all who enter here, in sort
of scriptural style and old-fashioned letter-
ing, but it makes one feel welcome, though
the place is almost sacred from association.
The house was formerly the home, of Dr.
John Hall, who married Susanna, the
elder daughter of Shakespeare. It is very
sweet to be so warmly received by a great
author when one is far from home, and
totally unknown except by name, as was
the writer of this sketch by this lovely
woman, whose books have, made her fa-
mous the world over. She came forward to
meet her caller with all the grace of a real
Duchess, and was as elegantly dressed. She
wore heavy white silk with a profusion of
white lace, and jewels that were dazzling;
also pearls upon her fair neck, which was
white as alabaster. Her abundant wealth
of golden auburn hair was dressed low, and
fell about her brow and temples in loose
tresses. She was beautiful as a dream of
summer, and her face was like sunshine,
her teeth like pearls and her lips ruby
red. Remembering her, one cannot wonder
she can write, and that she is musical, the
marvelously sweet tones of her voice would
tell you that. We talked freely of books
and places. She said she dreaded the ocean,
so she feared she could never visit America.
She sent for coffee and refreshments, and
served them herself in the daintiest fashion
in the finest Sevres china and silver service.
She gave the writer her autograph and said
in the most positive manner: “O, now,
Mrs. Wells, you must have my two books
am busy writing how. That is why I
can’t see people, every day I, should be
thronged with visitors.” When we in-
quired the titles, or what her books were to
be called, she told us they were not named
yet.
	She chatted freely of herself, her great
trouble, her brother’s death, her own
health, the crisis she had passed through
safely when she had been attended by a
woman doctor, and how anxious she was to
have everyone know how successful the
doctor had been in the case. She also was
profuse in her admiration of Halle Crofte,
which she would like to purchase; and of
the Falcon, where we were staying, and of
Ann Hathaway’s cottage, told us what we
must be sure and see in both these places
referred to the old church and the River
Avon, with its boating; insisted we must
have seen her rowing at twilight in a boat
on the river, when we were gazing down
from the church steeple; described her dress,
a simple white muslin and a white straw
sailor hat. Rowing is a pastime for which
she seemed to have the keenest enjoyment.
	It was a very great pleasure to meet this
charming woman, who has certainly a
striking personality, and once in her pres-
ence, one is not likely to forget the power 
of her fascination.
	Early the next morning we walked
through the lanes that led to Ann Hath-
away’s cottage. A delightful day; the fields
were thick with clover, daisies and red
poppies, and the wicket gates and green
hedges were more real than we could have
imagined by reading of them We were
there before the opening time, nine o’clock, 
so loitered about the quaint flower garden,
and curious thatched-roof cottages were
near as well as the Hathaway house itself.
It is reputed to be this footpath that
Shakespeare must have wandered over to
meet his lady-love in the soft twilight,
quiet and luxuriant, about one mile from
Stratford along the paths to Shottery, with


its old-fashioned gables and half-timbered
houess. On the way there is a little road-
side inn called “The Sheakespeare.” Trees
are heavy with foliage, almost embowering
the houses. Down the lane you cross a
little brook a few yards from the house,
which is a long thatched tenement of wood
and plaster. On the central chimney, cut
into the stone and let into bricks, is en-
graved the letters J. H., and date 1697.
The house is divided into three apartments.
There is a passage between two of them;
the room on the right has a chimney ex-
tending the whole width of the house, with
an oven, and boiler; this is the kitchen.
The rooms are ceiled with strong, heavy
beams. The present resident is a grand-
daughter of John Hathaway Taylor. Over
the parlor is the bedroom, up rickety stairs,
where there stands an old carved oak bed-
stead, elaborately and tastefully executed,
certainly as old as the Shakespeare period,
and handed down as an heirloom with the
house. The old lady of the house, nearly
ninety years of age, declares she slept in it
from childhood, and was always told it had
been there ever since  the house was
built. 
	The Shakespeare house, New Place,
Guild Hall and Grammar School, where
Shakespeare was taught, will be sufficient
for another short sketch (as this is already
too long), about our visit to Stratford-on
Avon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GONE TO HER REST. 
	Sister Melissa Jane Bigler Lambson, a
woman pioneer in the Church and in the
State, has passed to her rest beyond the
vail. has finished her earthly pilgrimage
and gone to join the innumerable host on the
other side, where there is no more pain
or sorrow or weeping; and although those
near and dear by the ties of kindred and
affection will miss her beloved companion-
ship here, yet there will doubtless be joy
and rejoicing there, that a loved one has re-
turned, having endured and been faithful
and true in the Gospel, for the race is not
to the swift, nor the battle to the strong,
but to him that endureth unto the end.
	Sister Melissa Jane Bigler Lambson,
who died in this city, October 25, 1899,
was the daughter of Mark and Susanna
Ogden Bigler, and was born in Shinston,
Harrison Co., West Virginia, March 24,
1825. Her parents received the Gospel
when she was a child, and were faithful
Latter-day Saints. With them she went
up to Missouri, and afterwards to Nauvoo.
Illinois, sharing in all the hardships and
persecutions of those early times. In Nau-
voo she became the wife of Alfred B.
Lambson, with whom she left the city at
the time of the exodus in 1846, and shared
in the perils of that eventful period. Broth-
er and Sister Lambson came to Utah, ar-
riving in September, 1847. Here, as be-
fore, she endured all the privations and
trials incident to pioneer life in the new
and barren, desert country, and passed
through all the hardships of that period
without murmuring or wavering in her
faith. Her last illness was a total breaking
up of the entire forces of life. She had
been delicate in health for many years, and
at last succumbed to the inevitable, with-
out complaint, only desiring to rest and be
at peace.
	The deceased was the mother of four
children, three daughters and one son all

[Column 2]
still living to mourn a tender and devoted
mother, to whom they were most devotedly
attached. She has left thirty grandchildren,
ten great grandchildren and an aged hus-
band, the companion of her youth, and to
whom she was fondly attached through
more than half a century.
	The funeral services were held on Friday
October 27, at 2 p. m., at the residence of
President Joseph F. Smith, her son-in-law,
and were conducted by Bishop W. J.
Beatie, Bishop of the Seventeeth Ward, in
which she had resided ever since the ward
was organized. 
	The services opened by singing “O, my
Father, Thou that dwellest,’ etc. Prayer
was offered by Bishop Emery, of the Six-
teenth Ward. The choir sang “When first
the glorious light of truth,” etc.
	The first speaker was Elder George B.
Wallace, a near neighbor, and one who had
known her from the settling of these val-
leys. He told of her many virtues and her
strict integrity to the truth under all cir-
cumstances, and gave a brief retrospect of
the early days, the organization of wards,
quorums, and so on, and paid a glowing
tribute to this excellent woman.
	Bishop Elijah S. Sheets followed, and
testified of the faith and integrity of the en-
tire family of Brother Bigler, (the father)
members of which he had been intimately
acquainted with in the days of Nauvoo.
	Apostle John Henry Smith spoke of the at-
tractive and entertaining qualities of Sister
Lambson, whom he had known from his
boyhood up. Alluded also to the family of
Brother and Sister Bigler and their great
faith in the Gospel, and referred to the
aged brother of the deceased, Brother Jacob
Bigler, a Patriarch of the Church, still liv-
ing in Nephi, Utah, yet not able to come
to Salt Lake City to attend the funeral; a
man of strict integrity and unquestioning
faith. He also spoke with affection and in
terms of praise of Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, the only one of the Bigler sisters
still living. Many excellent tributes, were
paid Sister Lambson in the remarks made
by the several speakers. 
	Bishop Beatie made some closing re-
marks in which he mentioned more recent
matters pertaining to Sister Lambson’s life,
and the acquaintance he made with her
when acting as a teacher in the ward, and
afterwards as her Bishop.
	The closing hymn was, “We shall meet
beyond the river.” The music was furn-
ished by the Sixteenth Ward choir, and
was very choice in selection and well ren-
dered. The benediction was pronounced
by Counselor Frank S. Tingey.
	Sister Lambson looked peaceful and hap-
py in her beautiful robes as she lay in the
white casket, and many were the floral
tributes from loving and sympathetic rela-
tives and friends. Her remains were fol-
lowed to the cemetery by a numerous pro-
cession of those who loved and honored her
memory. The grave was dedicated by
Patriarch Jesse B. Martin, and Sister Lamb-
son’s mortal body was laid peacefully away
to await the morning of the resurrection of
the just.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from
henceforth, yea t[-]ey rest, from t[-]eir labors and
their works do follow t[-]em.”


IF we had no faults ourselves we should
not be so quick to observe those of our
friends.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Convention of the State Federation
of Clubs, held October 26, 27 and 28, in
the Congregational Church, in this city,
was both interesting and successful. The
papers and addresses were of a high char-
acter intellectually and bespoke the great
interest awakened among women on sub-
jects of vital importance. Mrs. A. V. Tay-
lor’s address of welcome, Mrs Ewing’s paper
upon Fiction, Mrs Lund’s paper and Dr.
Elliot’s, were all excellent, and we shall be
very glad to make further mention of these
meetings hereafter.
	MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT and Miss
Mary G. Hay, of New York City, are tour-
ing in the West in the interest of Equal
Suffrage. Both are fine looking, and are
women of marked ability. Mrs. Catt is
one of the finest speakers on the platform,
that there is in the suffrage work. They
came here from Montana and went direct
from Salt Lake to San Francisco. At a
meeting of ladies in this office on Monday,
October 30, at 3 p. m., a Central Committee
was organized to do special work in this
State in the interest of suffrage for other
parts of the country. Mrs. F. S. Richards
is chairman; Mrs J. Fewson Smith secre-
tary; Mrs. Ella W. Hyde, treasurer; Mrs.
E. J. McFarlane, chairman canvassing
committee. The ladies represented three
counties. A meeting to complete the or-
ganization and plan will be held at Mrs. P.
P. Jennings’ residence, on Saturday at 3 p.
m., November 4.
	THE ladies of the W. C. T. U. who were in
the city Sunday and Monday, were tendered
a reception by the Central Board of the
Y. L. N. M. I. A., in the parlors of the Bee
Hive, the residence of President Lorenzo
Snow, on Monday afternoon. The rooms
were tastefully decorated with flowers and
plants. Mrs. Snow, the hostess, is an
active member of the Board, Mrs. E. S.
Taylor is president and Miss Ann M. Can-
non secretary. Other members assisted in
receiving and in serving dainty and delicate
refreshments. Miss Bessie Edmonds ren-
dered very sweetly two charming songs,
“Good Bye Sweet Day” and “Slumber’s
Sweet Lullaby. Fine selections on the
piano were artistically executed.


