[A Convert's Granddaughter Returns—Part II by Helen and Cyril Pearson]

Converts' Granddaughter Returns Part II Helen and Cyril Pearson Photographs by the Authors
66 WITZERLAND reminds one of the United States before the first World War," one of the missionaries tells you, and you agree. Number 54
Weinbergstrasse is our Church address in Zurich, an elder informs us. We reach the Church hall in ten minutes from the Neues Schloss Hotel on Stockenstrasse. It's Mutual Improvement night and, to use a scriptural text, "It's good to be here!" The warm, intimate, almost family-like services are in the German language.
Everyone is speaking it in the Zurcher dialect which marks the Zurich temperament as the liquid French language characterizes the Parisian, but the same gospel is taught at both Weinbergstrasse and St. Germain. A good many Swiss saints have recently emigrated to America and more wish to go. Zurich, of course, was a stronghold of the Reformation. The city contains numerous houses, hotels, and inns, labeled with the names of famous old-time Reformation occupants.
Business requires you to double back to Paris and then go by automobile to Basle, Switzerland, by way of Alsace-Lorraine.
Years ago you thought the Canadian Province of Quebec was the quaintest place you had ever visited, but Alsace, with its thatched cottages, its matched teams of oxen, its peasant costumes, and its honest-to-goodness earthiness, takes a visitor back  two centuries. "This isn't the type of country where you're likely to find Latterday Saints," Cy remarks, as though reading your mind while you're mentally making comparisons between Alsace and Quebec in Canada. "I'm afraid our missionaries wouldn't be able to do much here." How erroneous it is thus to generalize only comes to light next day when you reach Basle. "At Strasbourg (in Alsace-Lorraine) we have one of the finest groups of saints in the whole Church," the missionaries in Basle tell you, "and our missionaries laboring in Alsace are having wonderful experiences. You know, Alsace has changed hands between the Germans and the French a good many times. After World War I, the Alsatians changed from the German language to French. So the older generation of Alsatians, including the older saints, are grounded in German, while the younger ones and our missionaries use French." At Basle you look upon the River Rhine for the first time in your life. You reflect on the great part men and women from lands bordering on this mighty river have played in the building up of the Church. Karl G. Maeser, who became President of Brigham Young University, was such a man. And you think how many missionaries from Zion have come to preach the gospel to these Germanic nations.
Yesterday you traveled over the A CONVERTS' GRANDDAUGHTER RETURNS bloodiest battlegrounds of Western Europe, but you saw them only as fields dressed in flowers and grass, and the River Marne brimming with fresh water. Xe kk & OU take the Nord Express by rail, leaving Paris of an afternoon and reach Copenhagen in the evening the day following. It takes you through Germany. The train authorities had said they would seal the cars at the Hamburg station, so no passengers could go out, but suddenly they relent and permit us 'to look around Hamburg and see the saddening effects of Allied bombing., Copenhagen is a poem to a Latter-day Saint who has lived in Box Elder or Sanpete counties.
Imagine going along hundreds of streets in a city a half dozen times the size of Salt Lake and seeing sign mul- 395 tiplied on sign: Georg Jensen, Silverware; Ole Hansen, Groceries; Fonnesbeck's Store; Peter Larsen, Barber; Hans Anderson, Lawyer; Christian Sorensen, Doctor; and thousands of similar Scandinavian cognomens, with nowhere such names as Smith, O'Brien, MaclIntosh, Griffith, or Levy. It's the Utah's Elsinore multiplied a thousand times and more. Incidentally, you get to visit the original Elsinore, home of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark. It is just outside Copenhagen., _ Copenhagen, with its more than a million people, is the largest city of all Scandinavia. You can go to Tivoli Gardens and see the Danes at their amusements, every person of them looking like their kinfolk back in Sandy or Draper, Utah. But here you see the Danish people on a Grand Canyon scale. 'These are COPENHAGEN, DENMARK, LOVED BY ALL DANISH LATTER-DAY SAINTS 396 IBSEN''S STATUE, Near the National Theater, Oslo, Norway the very children only a couple of generations removed of those forefathers whose Utah descendants are the Lunds, the Hansens, the Rasmussens, the Petersens, and other Danes in Zion. The present Denmark-Utah situation is almost analogous to England and Massachusetts of two centuries ago. It is a delight to go to the Latter-day Saint services at Priorve] 12, on Sunday. The well-kept little chapel is filled to overflowing.
What a beautiful sight! It seems like a throwback to the days of Wilford Woodruff in England. The thought goes through your mind, when new blood was helpful in the early days of. The Church, what a transfusion these Scandinavians gave us! We decide to take the boat to Malmo, Sweden, and then go to " 
Stockholm by train. If one has the time, he can go all the way by boat.
Stockholm has the distinction of being known as a city of beautiful women. It is also called the Venice of the North. | Swedish mission headquarters are in a solid building of the old part of Stockholm on Svartensgatan. In getting to the mission home you are astonished at how many Swedes, young and old, speak a good grade of English.
They do not regard this as any particular accomplishment. "There are so many Americans and English in the world and only a few Swedes. We.
Have to learn your language," they graciously explain.
Sunday morning at the mission happens to be Swedish Flag Day, and in a couple of weeks the King will be ninety years old. All Stockholm is decorated. A magnificent Swedish banner is unfurled from the flagstaff in front of the Latterday Saint Church. There's a royal sunlight this day and a soft breeze to ripple the blue field and the golden cross of the Swedish standard. The theme of the Sunday School program is patriotism as expounded in our Twelfth Article of Faith. The pageantry put on by these Swedish Latter-day Saint children in the heart of their northern homeland reminds one of the Centennial celbrations in Zion in July '47. Oslo, Stockholm, and Copenhagen are at the vertices of a Sangle which is approximately equilateral. You take the overnight train from Stockholm to Oslo to be in Norway for two days. This A CONVERTS' GRANDDAUGHTER RETURNS LATTER-DAY SAINT ELDERS Standing in Front of Zwingli's Statue, Zurich, Switzerland fatherland of Grieg and Ibsen is also the homeland of the type of saint who has helped make up the lifeblood of our Church, the kind of person whom men or events cannot shake. As you ride on a motor boat out on the Oslo Fjord, you think of the story of Anna Gaarn Widtsoe, the fisher maiden, and her life as told by her son, Elder John A. Widtsoe. Elder Widtsoe put it this way: This is the story of a woman, a seeker after truth, who, tossed by the waves of mysterious fate, was caught by the gospel net, and carried into a far country, where, through the possession of eternal truth, though amidst much adversity, she and her family found unbounded happiness. May the life of Anna Gaarn Widtsoe, the erstwhile fisher maid, be a 397 light to the feet of those who think they are weary in well-doing.
Being the end of June, it is still broad daylight in Oslo at ten P. M.
When you catch the overnight train for Malmo, Sweden.
Then you take the ferry boat from Malmo to Copenhagen just across the bay and go by air over Germany back to Paris. At Orly Airport, outside Paris, the sun is hot and red from smoke as we take off homeward for our land of America, choice above all other lands. A mantle of calm settles over you as you leave behind a troubled world of men and turmoil and enter into a sort of heavenly tranquility. 'This plane covers — the flight from Bombay, India, to New York City. The divers passengers inside the cabin of the plane make the day seem like one ELDERS AT SWEDISH MISSION HEADQUARTERS, STOCKHOLM 398 of ancient Pentecost.
Aboard are turbanned Moslems, high caste Brahmins from India, a_ whitebearded Greek Catholic priest, an ancient Italian woman, a sprinkling of North Europeans, and a score of Americans.. The captain of the plane is a fine young American who was reared on a Midwestern farm.
Between trips back and forth from the Western to the Eastern Hemisphere, he is running a farm in Virginia. The navigator lays a wonderful map before you. "Easy to keep on the track if you'll follow the way that's been planned for you,' the captain says modestly, pointing to our course. "Here's our bearing to Shannon Airport, south of Dublin. We're just coming over the Channel Isles. There's Guernsey. I've got some of their cows.", HE thought comes to you that in the early days of the Church, a sailing ship took a month or more, a modern ship takes a week, and a plane takes a day to cross the Atlantic. "Coming into Shannon," the captain announces, as he takes over personal control of the plane from the instruments, "our next leg of the flight will be over the open sea from Ireland to Gander, Newfoundland, though there's just a chance we may have to land at Goose Bay if there's a fog.
Then we'll hop straight to La Guardia Field in New York, provided we get away from Newfoundland before the fog closes in on us."
Later the captain confides to you that we ought to be in Gander about  four A. M. He said we would cut short our stay so as not to risk the fog closing in and holding the plane at Gander.
Within the hour, you are riding the plane like a huge bird down to the New World.
Within the twenty-four hours since leaving Paris, the steward takes his place in the fore part ot the plane.
Facing the passengers, he says, "May I have your attention? We are coming in over New York City and will land at La Guardia field.
Fasten your safety belts."
Quickly the plane begins to lose altitude.
Large buildings appear to be whirling by. In a matter of minutes you'll be back down in the country of your birth, a country builded from wilderness to magnificence. You think of the words of the prophet Ether and they give you pause: For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands; wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God or shall be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God... (Ether 2:10). The plane lands in that same New York.
Where your forefathers landed nearly a century ago. Now you're home from Europe there's a scene that comes to your mind's eye many times. It's simply this: The setting's near Oxford. You envision a talk you had with a serving woman there. She was toilworn and ill-paid. You felt a bit illmannered when she looked up suddenly and caught you staring at her. If she had known what you were thinking she might have excused your stare because you were thinking: But for the grace of the gospel there go I!