[WomansExponent | Vol13 | 1884 | March | Issue: 19 | Title: EDITOR EXPONENT: | Author: Unknown]

EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Having a few moments to spare I thought I
would jot down a few of my reflections upon the
reading of the minutes of the “Woman Suffrage
Convention, lately held in the City of Washing-
ton, D. C., and published in your issue of  Feb-
ruary 15, especially the following on page 150:
"Whereas the dogmas incorporated in religious
creeds derived from Judaism, teaching that wo-
man was an afterthought of creation, her sex a
misfortune, marriage a condition of subordina-
tion and maternity a curse."  And concluding
with the words, "that in true religion there is
neither male nor female, bond nor free, but all
are one."
     I am writing now not for the purpose of pro-
voking discussion with the estimable ladies of
the East who are so earnestly advocating and
working for the rights of their sex, but for the
women of Mormondom, who, above all the rest
of womankind, have need to understand correct-
ly the relation that man and woman, especially
husband and wife, sustain to each other; be-
cause their religion (which Mrs. Stanton after-
wards claimed had a debasing tendency) teaches
some principles which, if true, involve eternal
consequences, but if false, then are we most
grossly deceived.
     What are the facts?  Adam was the first man
and Eve the first woman;  no matter whether
she came in company with him or followed af-
ter.  We find the two together living in har-
mony and peace; we have no record of conten-
tion, jealousy, or distrust manifesting itself dur-
ing their entire residence in the Garden of Eden.
Although history is silent in regard to the time
they spent together in this happy state, yet it is
evident from records that some time did elapse,
also that they were familiar with the Almighty
and received visits from Him during that
period.
     But a change is wrought.  By whom?  By the
serpent.  First seriously affecting Eve, because
she yielded to his wiles, afterwards Adam, be-
cause he voluntarily partook; and through these
the entire creation involving consequences and
conditions that are beyond the power of argu-
ment to reason away or philosophy to disperse,
no matter how profound.
     The f[-]at of the Almighty (Jehovah) goes
forth--read the third chapter of Genesis from
the ninth to the nineteenth verses, inclusive.
Nearly six thousand years of our time has
elapsed since then, exhibiting humanity, in fact
all creation, in every possible phase and condi-
tion.  Tell me, has God's word as pertaining to
the earth, to the serpent, to Eve, to Adam,
failed in any one particular?  Does the serpent
crawl upon his belly; is there enmity between
him and man?  Does woman still bring forth
in sorrow?  Is the ground still cursed; and does the
thorn and thistle still grow spontaneously, in-
volving constant labor to keep in check?  Does
the sweat drop to-day from the brow of the hus-
bandman, and does man finally die, and woman
too?  All nature answers with one united voice,
"'Tis true."
     Now we come to one little clause contained in
the text: "Thy desire shall be to thy husband,
and he shall rule over thee."  Shall we patient-
ly submit to all the rest because we are unable
to alter and fight against, protest, ignore, and
finally defy the Almighty to pronounce these
words?  No.  We will accept of the penalty in
its entirety, for it is a penalty. We will submit
to the ordeal and thank God for the privilege,
because it is the road to life, immortality and
eternal glory.  But this rule of man, in what
does it consist?  Can its powers be defined?  Is
woman necessarily man's slave; is there left to
her no right to reason, no power of choice?


[Column 1]
﻿Because she was deceived by the serpent must
she be deprived of will power during her mortal
career? Mormonism inculcates no such princi-
ples, teaches no such doctrine.  If woman at-
tains to exaltation with man, it will be because
she merits in her own right that exaltation. If
she ever strives at a condition of glory it will be
because the elements necessary to such a condi-
tion dwell within herself.
   But can woman be advised, counseled and di-
rected by man, and yield thereto without sacri-
ficing in the least her womanhood?  Most cer-
tainly. As man can yield to his fellow man and
stlll retain his manhood.
   Can man attain to a fulness of exaltation
without woman?  No, verily.  For as the race
cannot be perpetuated upon earth without wo-
man, so the lives cannot be continued hereaf-
ter without her.  Then is she not necessary to
man, both here and hereafter?  Most truly.  As
woman would be utterly helpless without man
in accomplishing her destiny.
   Then instead of claiming"that in true religion
there is neither male nor female,” we assert
that, it is most essential that the sexes be pre-
served intact with their peculiar gifts, qualifica-
tions, endowments and rights, operating and la-
boring in their peculiar sphere to accomplish and
bring to pass the purposes of Jehovah in their
creation, and this labor should be entered upon
and continued harmoniously without jar or dis-
cord.  The man who is jealous of woman in the
exercise of all the powers that belong to her is
an object of pity; the woman who presumes to
perform the functions of man unsexes herself.
   But is woman man’s equal? This seems to be
the grand culminating point in all discussions
upon this subject.  Viewed from the woman’s
suffrage standpoint I would answer the ques-
tion, most certainly.  She should vote in com-
pany with man at every election untram-
melled and free, for if the sentiments of
Rev. Olympia Brown, as expressed in the Con-
vention, be true concerning man, then is woman
not only his equal but more than his peer.  But
from a Mormon standpoint I would answer the
question more fully.
   The fact of woman enjoying the right of fran-
chise in Utah for so many years past, and that,
too, a voluntary gift of our Legislature without
her asking, is a proof positive that we have no
fear of our wives and daughters, and we shall
fight most determinedly against any infringe-
ment in this regard  All who are acquainted
with Mormon customs know that from the first,
woman has had the right to vote in common
with men upon all public matters, and especial-
ly so in regard to the exercise of priestly author-
ity and rule, thus carrying out the will of the
Almighty that“all things shall be done by com-
mon consent.”
   But is man the head of the woman? Paul says
that he is, as Christ is the head of the Church.
There is no authority or office of the Priesthood
but man can receive of himself without the
woman, and exercise its powers and functions
independent of her.  Whereas, if woman ever
receives any degree of Priesthood it will be in
connection with and because of her relation to 
man. To use some familiar terms by way of il-
lustration: If a woman ever becomes a queen it
will be because of her relation to a king; if a
Priestess, because she is the wife of a Priest, he
having preceded her and received of himself his
authority, she following in possession first be-
cause of merit; second, because of right of in-
heritance by virtue of relationship to the man,
their union having been sanctified by the pow-
ers of heaven. Their increase inheriting all that
belongs to both father and mother.  Such a
union of man and woman perpetuating eternal
dominion in which is incorporated all the glory

[Column 2]
that is possible to conceive.  Child submitting
to parent, wife yielding to husband, man bow-
ing down to the Savior, and that Savior giving
up all to the Father, that “God may be all in
all.”  Each one while thus yielding, still retain-
ing their individual power and place unimpaired,
filled to a fulness according to their position and
calling, without one feeling of distrust or jeal-
ousy in regard to the other. Can man, woman
or child ask for more than this?
   While we sympathise, with the women of
Christendom in their earnest endeavors to ob-
tain their rights, and while we sense the wrongs
of which men are guilty and the terrible condi-
tion of the world viewed from every standpoint,
should we not be thankful for what we have re-
ceived of the true knowledge of God and the
principles of eternal life thst renders unneces-
sary any argument or contention in regard to
individual br sexual rights, for is not our calling
and election made sure?
						  J. E. TAYLOR,
   Salt Lake City, Feb. 22, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOVE. 

	This is a little word of only four letters, yet
how potent, how powerful, and with it comes
our liberty or bondage. If we love right, we
are free; free in our souls, pure in our hearts, let
come what may, though oft through surround-
ing circumstances and worldly influence we are
swerved from the right, not having the moral
courage to resist evil, or know for ourselves the
sad results of weakness and hatred until too
late.
	Love, not fear, prompts the Latter-day Saints
to take upon them this title of honor. God so
loved the world that He gave His Son as a ran-
som; and in all His life and attributes we find
nothing but the purest love and the greatest self-
sacrifice for us. Can we be ashamed to own our
Lord? Never.
	History gives but few exceptions where man
who held power loved his fellow man better
than himself, even science must see her advo-
cates give their lives for the self-evident truths
she blesses mankind with; and when once cus-
tom sets her foot in a certain channel, woe to
those who divulge therefrom, whether it be
right or wrong. From Abraham to Washington,
divine ravelation has told the Saints of these
men and their mission, end no where in this
fair land are Columbus and Washington appre-
ciated and understood as here in Zion. The
legacy of freedom given us by our noble ances-
tors in this goodly land, we prize and mean to
maintain, here where the oppressed can find a
refuge, here where a nation has grown from in-
fancy to manhood in so short a time, we would
naturally expect liberty to live a life of vigor
for hundreds of years, but we find feeble old age
has come all too soon in some portions of the
land, and poor Idaho is evidently letting her
standard of liberty sink into an untimely grave.
	Is it for the love of their fellow men that citi-
zens of the United States are declared slaves in
Idaho? Let the world read and judge what men
love to do with the rights of their fellow men
when ones their souls are fettered with hate in-
stead of love for those who are walking in a bet-
ter and purer atmosphere than their own easy,
downward road. Behold how crooked can they
make the straight and just way of constitution-
al liberty bond.
	Because the Saints believed that God had
spoken from the heavens again and in His love
for His children had revealed the truth were
they branded and driven. Again comes the
voice of our Father that there is a higher and
better law. Will we obey it? Yes; the noble

[Column 2]
men and God-fearing women would honor the
source of their being, would honor the cause of
social regeneration, and be the noble pioneers of
a higher and holier life; for this are they ac-
cused of crime, yet will they contend to protect
virtue and love to bestow all the rights the fair
daughters of Eve are entitled to through their
obedience to the laws of God.
	It has become popular to hate the Mormons,
but do those who revile know what the Gospel
we have embraced is? We answer it in two or
three words—a consistent life. We love the
truth and control ourselves, for this are we as-
sailed on the right and on the left.
	The men that love to defile the daughters of 
Eve are unworthy the name of men, and no
man has the right to lay the weight of his
hand on a woman, "except in the marriage re-
lation." Would to God the women of the world
had the same protection that we, the Mormon
women, have: the blighted lives and sad hearts
that are seen by our Heavenly Father caused
by the lust and inconstancy of lustful Mormon-
hating men is enough to cause the very heavens
to weep.
	Where can we find pure love? In the homes
of the Latter-day Saints; there ir sits enthroned.
If sorrow and death visit such a household there
is comfort and relief at hand. A friend of mine
was called to part with his first wife. When
she was dying he said, "Mother, what do you
wish to say about the children?" With a look
of love and confidence she replied, "Anna will
do just as well by you and the children as I."
And there are thousands of such instances that
prove our confidence in and love for each other.
Is this love or lust?
	Another instance--In conversation with a 
brother who has thirty-six children, he said not
one ever gave him a saucy or unkind word; his 
descendants, all told, number over one hun-
dred. Lust kills the evidences of its crime, love
saves, cherishes and rears them to become noble
men and women, and claims the wives and
children as his own wealth for time and all eter-
nity.
	Over 4,200 lovely, bright, intelligent children
partake of the Lord's Supper every Sabbath, and
there are over 3,200 little ones under eight years
of age in their dear native Utah. And when we
look around among our noble boys and girls,
who can help exclaiming, surely the Lord is
with His people. Proud might any nation be
of such treasures. Is this the sign of decay, of
degredation, of disloyalty to our government?
Not to any right-minded, reasonable person. Our
principles are perfect, and we will continue to
love them and strive to live them,God being our
helper, protest the rights of others, envy no
one, be pure in our daily walk in life and leave-
the result in God's hands.
Zina D.H. Young


