Hazel Sowards Cannon Member, General Board of Relief Society MOTHER'S life epitomized the spirit of the pioneer, although for many years that last frontier had been settled. There had still been fascinating new trails to blaze with each of her children, and life in the little valley, nestling in its circle of picturesque hills, had been a constant challenge. Her heart yearned for the beautiful, the genteel, and that which was right and good. Sharing her substance was part of living. She traveled many miles to and from the peaceful valley in its circle of lovely hills to bring enjoyment to her family and friends. Many came to her door. Friend and stranger alike surrounded her table, partook of its goodness, and departed warmed and heartened. She was fulfillment of the promise ". And thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water whose waters fail not" (Isaiah 58:11). She pointed with pride to God's handiwork. Rocks, artistic and delicately colored, interestingly grotesque and hued with the rainbow, satiny smooth or rough textured—she loved them all. The silver-green sagebrush of the desert, the sweet-scented pines of the mountains, the urn-shaped buds of her favorite roses were her delight. She subdued the red clay and reveled in her springtime flowers as they came forth in defiance of the icy fingers of winter. "Anything worth doing at all is worth doing well," she said, and somehow found through infinite patience and an innate sensitivity, the right way to perform each homey task. Her jars of home-canned fruit, iridescent jewels imprisoned in glass, were a work of art; her freshly laundered clothes rivaled the ermine snows in whiteness; and bright palettes of artistically arranged raw vegetables were found on her table long before it was fashionable. It did not take "things" to make her happy. She loved quality but hated ostentation and pretense. Her joys were the simple things—her family secure and snug in a warm house during the storm, a night's repose in an immaculately clean and comfortable bed, her carefully nurtured shade trees lacing a sapphire sky, the full wheaty flavor of homemade bread, the smile on the tear-stained face of a grandchild. Mother was a valiant pioneer. Her life exemplified that each age needs women who explore and perfect when it is easier merely to accept; who endure with faith and tenacity when to yield is a worldly pattern; who discover happiness in toil when perishable rewards beckon unceasingly; who chart the course for others to follow. Sara O. Moss Bic Jim looked at his sleeping wife, with little Jim's chubby hand on her cheek. Lucky kid, little Jim, to have a mother like Millie and a grandmother like Mom. Big Jim sat down in the chintz-covered chair and stretched his long legs. He gave a deep sigh, relaxing with half-closed eyes. Mother's Day! Man, for the packages! It was worse than Christmas at the post office where Big Jim worked. There had been thousands of pieces of mail — packages, cards, and many orders. Yes, it had been worse than Christmas. He dozed a little, but now and then he glanced at the package which lay on the dresser, with its gay wrappings. It was Mom's package. Millie had seen to that. Tomorrow they would take it over to Mom, the three of them. It seemed silly, so much fuss over Mother's Day. Still it was a good way to let Mom know how you felt, because a fellow just couldn't say, in so many words, how it was between him and his mother. You couldn't recount how many times Mom had somehow seen you through. Those times when you had needed her most. Big Jim recalled that sick spell, pneumonia, and he could still feel Mom's cool hand on his brow. And that day she had served punch and cookies to the fellows as they practiced football in the backyard. That made Mom a regular with the team, and Big Jim had been so proud of her. When he was ten, she had sold an heirloom to buy him a bicycle. At seventeen he had a handsome pair of new shoes to wear to a school dance, but it was years later that Jim learned Mom had used a prized little sum she was saving for a new carpet. Big Jim couldn't remember when Mom hadn't stood out on the fringe of things to give a helping hand. Those long years without Dad, Mom somehow made up for them. She laughed for Jim's sake, when he knew she was crying within her breast. And then Millie had come into their lives. Sweet, beautiful Millie. Mother of Little Jim. Mom loved them both. She reached out her heart and her hands and her love now was wrapped around all three of them. Big Jim rose, and covered Millie's shoulder with the spread as the breeze blew the curtain. Then he went out the door and started the car in the driveway. As he drove slowly down the street, he knew he couldn't enumerate all the things that Mom had done for him and Millie and Little Jim, but he would walk into her house, stretch out in the big leather. Chair that had been Dad's. Then he would take the plate with the new-baked brown bread and the glass of milk that Mom would offer him. After that he would lean back with a smile and say, "Thanks Mom. Thanks for everything." Winona F. Thomas l \ucur state that I am not an avid opera fan. In fact, most operas which rate the word grand in front of their titles, leave me cold. I admit they are way above me. 'The music may have all the skillful harmonies, and the singers have talent and all the necessary techniques, but operas must be melodious or I don't like them. Verdi's La Traviata is a grand opera with an interesting plot and pleasing melodies. The first time I heard a recording of it, I sat so charmed that I hardly moved a muscle until it was finished. It still has that effect on me. Every time I hear it I am completely enthralled. Last summer when we were in Chicago, some nice people took us to Kungsholm's Miniature Grand Opera Theatre, where we saw La Traviata performed by _ thirteen-inchhigh puppets while we listened to the libretto from recordings made in the Metropolitan Opera House. It was an experience I shall never forget. Last week I heard the announcement that the opera would be broadcast on the radio from the stage just as it was presented in the Metropolitan Opera House. I was glad that I had been slightly ill all week. It would give me an excuse to stay home, and here on the farm I could attend a production of La Traviata. I did the housework early and changed into a dress suitable to 354 listen to grand music. I had taken the curlers from my hair and was applying some make-up when the announcer, who introduces' the opera and briefs the listeners on the cast and continuity, came on the radio. As he told who the principals were, and who would sing Alfredo's and Violetta's parts, he was almost drowned out by the sound of a heavy truck coming into our driveway. As the overture started, footsteps clomped up across the porch, and a door was opened and slammed shut. "Come and take me to the field," a masculine voice comimanded. "The tractor's not working, and I am getting behind in my spring work. I just ordered a new one. The dealer is bringing it down. He may be at the field already. Please hurry!" I didn't turn off the radio. I didn't want to miss one single note as I went out, and I wanted to hear what was being played as I came back into the house. As there was no radio in the truck, I listened to the chug and rumble of the motor instead of music. We left the highway and turned down the lane that led to the field. There wasn't anyone there. "Do I have to wait?" I asked. "Yes, you better. Maybe he's had trouble. I might have to ride back to the house with you." "There he comes now," I said, Teached the field, hus 5 band was turning the tractor around the hurry? Maybe he'll in the farther €nd of the stubb] need Something after he gets here. Patch. He ame slowly Oward me on't waste 84S. Turn off the enHe Teached the end of the furrow gine," he was pl wing and Stopped to I turned the truck 4found and Scrape the mud from the lowshare leaded it toward the Eate before After Surveying the result, he took I turned Off the key, J WaS teady lammer and Pounded jt. Of 1 quick getaway "Hurry," | Said. "I leg, lunch The big truck turned in at the Cooking," gate, and th liver got Out and Slowly let down d mus MOved to C Teplaced with Others he would It would Start "Mg down from the toolshed y "Everythin seems to be all Y the house. When we Teached right," husband Said, "come and the house, We ate lunch while listen set me about One thirty, ang Pi] mg to very | come up for lunch and bring back | 4 Can of gas." > the announ Cer Came on. Sorbers Leaving the "We are about to Car the third Tuck in the drivewa Tan into act, the beautify) ballroom scene." he house Beautify] MUSIC was Cautifully sq Music began I fading on the ether. New the climax Was 4PProaching "During he Intermission w will So were husband's Orders, lear the operg News. Of the air," the "Come and drive the truck to the mnouncer said. Field. [ 'Put in the grain to feed There Was no music hile | Tethe beef cattle, then I won't have Pared lunch Just ISCUSsiOnN of tO go aroy d by the Corral after | things Which didn't Interest me &ct through lowing ton; ht." 'We are NOW ready for the sec € was | ond act in hich Giorgi | AITives g - In the pocket and J ~ Was the one wh had to Teturn ¢ nd went on with get them What would } heard the second I finally Teached home and sank a Into a chair in time to hear Violetta I noticed the clock I should cough delicately and sing €xquisiteAve been in th field ten Minutes ly as she died in Alfredo's arm 180. As the truck nO radio, "And the curtain falls on Verdi' I drove jt Out of the way and got Masterpiece," he announcer saiq the tourin "ar out of the garage. "The Principals wil] now take their turned on the radio a d tuned jn Curtain cal]s " C Station. Ajj I got were Moans and buzzes.