Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out Hobbies: Gretchen Stratton Makes Prize-Winning Pillows; Anna Marie Richins—Expert in Handicraft, 430; Happiness in Flower Arranging, by Maude W. Howard, 431; "Parchment" Correspondence Cards, by Peggy Tangren, 436; Relief Society Silver Service, College Park Lesson Department - Preview for 1964-65 467 Theology—The Doctrine and Covenants Roy W. Doxey 401 The Shadowfall Shirley M. Howard Always the Moment, by Lael W. Hill, 420: Tide Turn, by Marjorie Newton, 424: Airborne Heritage, by Viola Ashton Candland, 449: Night, by Ida Elaine James, 477; Bird Song, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 478; One Year Old, by Christie Lund Coles, 479; The Secret, by Eleanor W. Schow, 479; Enchanted, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 480. 9, ee Sa a a HS Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIET Y of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 841] 1; Phone EMpire 4-251]; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 g year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, Payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew Promptly so that no copies Il be missed. Report change of address. At once, giving old and new address. Entered QS second-class matter February 18, 1914, to Emma Ray Riggs McKay June 23, 1964 AT this season of the year when summer is rich and beautiful upon the northern lands, and winter rests upon the southern hemisphere, the women of the Church in many lands extend birthday greetings to Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of our beloved Prophet, President David O. McKay. It is with rejoicing and sincere gratitude that the world-wide sisterhood, separated by mountains and oceans, yet united in the spirit of the restored gospel, pay tribute to the lovely woman who represents for them a worthy ideal of Latter-day Saint womanhood, which, with continuing devotion, they may strive to emulate. Realizing the ever-increasing complexity of life upon the earth today, and knowing full well the many voices that call out to women for their time, their energy, and their attention, the women of the Church are especially grateful that an example of wisdom, strength, serenity, and high purpose has been given them in the life of a truly great woman who has demonstrated the most important and far-reaching accomplishments of womanhood. Sister McKay has often said that she owes much of her fundamental attitudes, as well as her habits of persona! Discipline and performance to the training and example which her mother placed before her. These attributes, a heritage from her childhood home, Sister McKay has described as courage, cheerfulness, patience, affection, kindness, understanding, and homemaking ability. Each of these qualities has been magnified by Sister McKay, and all have been given in generous measure to her family, her friends, and to the women of the Church. Courage has been consistently manifest in her life, particularly on those many and prolonged occasions when her husband has been traveling in far places, carrying abroad the gospel message. At such times the quiet courage of Sister McKay was so deeply felt by the children in the home that they have said, in later years, that it seemed, through the courage and faith and prayers of their mother, that the influence and love and protection of their father was actually present in the home. Many of the responsibilities that come to women as mothers and homemakers, and in their relationships with other women, are greatly enhanced by the buoyant quality of cheerfulness that minimizes present difficulties and sheds a glowing light upon the morning that is sure to come. Such has been the pervading light and radiance in the presence of Sister McKay. Her patience has long been admired and appreciated by her family and by all her associates — a patience that has been upheld by enduring faith and the belief that when one has chosen well a lifetime pattern, then patience and endurance are part of that pathway. Truly it may be said that the desire and ability to give love and affection are rare gifts, and most worthy of cultivation. Affection and love for those near and dear to Sister McKay and for the women of the Church and all others, have characterized the days and the years of the life of Sister McKay, exemplifying her own belief that ''life's finest blessing is the ability to find joy in doing something for someone else.'' Her innate kindness seems to spring from a desire to help women to attain some of the rich blessings which have graced her own life. The making and keeping of a home have been to Sister McKay a sacred trust, and the rearing of'children a privilege and a blessing. With President McKay she has traveled to many parts of the world, always taking with her ''a message of peace and a prayer for the women of the world to make the best possible homes for their children." ) For her eighty-seventh birthday, the women of the Church extend to Sister McKay their love and appreciation and their wishes for her health and happiness. Pau. Harold Dunn, a California educator, was appointed to the First Council of Seventy at the Monday morning session of the 134th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 6, 1964, the closing day of Conference. His call fills the vacancy in the Council of Seventy occasioned by the death of Elder Levi Edgar Young, in . Elder Dunn was born in Provo, Utah, April 24, 1924, the second of three sons of Joshua Harold and Geneve Roberts Dunn. The family moved to California in 1939, where Elder Dunn continued his education. He received a B. A. Degree in religion from Chapman College in 1953, and the next year he was awarded a Master's Degree in education from the University of Southern California. He received his doctorate in educational administration from the same institution in 1959. At the time of his appointment to the Council, he was an active seventy in the Downey Third Ward of Huntington Park Stake. Paul H. Dunn He became associated with the Church Education System in 1952, as a seminary teacher in the Los Angeles area, and as viceprincipal of the seminaries in that city in 1953-54. Later, he became assistant supervisor of the seminaries of Southern California and served with great success in that capacity until 1956, when he was appointed director of the University of Southern California Institute of Religion. When called to be a General Authority, Elder Dunn was coordinator of the Institutes of Religion of Southern California. In this work, he has directed the activities of nine fulltime and _ forty-one part-time institutes, with an estimated enrollment of 2,500 students. His area of supervision included the institutes from Fresno, south to the Mexican border. Through his training and experience as a counselor and friend of the youth of the Church, and by his enthusiasm, friendliness, spiritual qualities, and great energy and ability, Elder Dunn has inspired and directed thousands of young people into the ways of usefulness and high endeavor in Church and community' activities. He has been untiring in his efforts to encourage young people to remain active in the Church organizations and to increase . X %, "of?, f [as | ELDER PAUL H. DUNN AND HIS FAMILY 3 i Elder Paul H. Dunn and his wife Jeanne Cheverton Dunn, with their daughters: Kellie (front, left); Janet (standing at the left), and Marsha (at the right). Their understanding of the gospel so that their attitudes and understanding of the gospel will enable them to be effective missionaries and exemplars of the teachings and principles of Latter-day Saint ideals.. His participation in athletics, (baseball, golf, football, basketball and track), and sports during his high school and college years has enabled him to influence many young men into taking part in such programs sponsored by the Church. Elder Dunn's maternal grandtather W. D. Roberts, and the erandfather's brother E. L. Roberts, who for many years was head coach and athletic director at the Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, were well known athletes and provided Elder Dunn with his heritage of interest. Elder Dunn's father passed away in . His mother and brothers and their families are living in California. Elder Dunn married Jeanne Alice 'Cheverton, whom he converted to the Church. They were sealed in the Arizona Temple, and are the parents of three daughters: Janet Carolyn, sixteen; Marsha Jeanne, fourteen, and Kellie Colleen, four. Leone O. Jacobs Former Member, General Board of Relief Society thirty be about the right time?" Immediately, a warm feeling came over me, the d brighter, and my Spirits rose perOne's friends are endowed with an amazing variety of temperaments and qualities of character, and each one adds much to life and makes of it an interesting 408 and joyous experience. There are the old friends and the new friends, the casual friends, and the close confidants,. Each fills 4 particular niche in one's life. Dear Mary seems always to be happy and full of wit. H er! To be in her presence is to have one's morale lifted Skyward. Always an optimist, burdens aplenty, though they are kept hidden from view. There js wasting precious time and effort on foolish endeavors. Dear Harriet! I am so grateful she is just the way she is. So big-hearted, so free from prejudice and criticism of others. I feel completely relaxed in her company. And so, each one holds a special place in my heart! For old friends I have great affection. I do not refer to old in point of years, but in the length of our association. These are my childhood friends, the friends with whom I attended school, whose lives are known to me and mine to them. They know my family background, my teachers, my weaknesses and strengths, our Church and community activities. I shall never lose interest in these whose lives have been so intimately interwoven with mine. It matters not how divergent our paths have been in the intervening years. "We grew up together," I announce proudly when introducing them to others. "We came from the same town."' How wonderful that as we grow older the events we shared in bygone days remain clear! Precious, vivid memories! THEN there are the new friends one makes from time to time. What a delight, what an unexpected pleasure is each one — an added gem in one's collection of blessings! To some we are immediately and mysteriously attracted, as if by a magnet. With such there need be no period of "setting acquainted." We are right away good friends. A choice experience it is to meet someone whose nature, we sense instinctively, will harmonize with our own! And what a happy prospect YOU, DEAR FRIENDS it is to realize that just any day we may meet some sweet person who will be a joy to us forever. For there is no quota on friendships. We may go on and on gathering them into our familiar circle. The casual friends also bring happiness into our lives. How pleasant to meet acquaintances on the street or at a social function, to receive a warm smile, a handshake, and a "How do you do? So nice to see you." One feels identified with his fellow beings and at one with the world. Then there are the friends one makes while serving in the Church. These are no doubt some of the choicest associations of all. How could individuals become closer than by being partners in the work of the Lord? There is so much in common; one's goals and standards are the same. One's best is expected and one's best is willingly given. The spirit of love is dominant, and a_ bond of fellowship develops that may last throughout eternity. And, lastly, there are the special few who are one's tried and true confidants, to whom one's innermost thoughts are confided, and in whom one puts his complete trust and love. These are as we imagine the Biblical friendship between David and Jonathan. Every person needs one or more such close friends. To be able to talk over one's problems with such a friend is of inestimable value, a stabilizing and sustaining influence. And so, truly grateful I am for friends — the new, the old, the tried, the true, and the ones who are to be. God bless them every one! MY ENGLISH TEXTBOOK the Prophet Joseph Smith. This was the light that led them and made it possible to endure all things. True, I had no wilderness to fight, no mob violence to meet. But there were other battles to be won, a new language, to meet the challenge of life away from home and parental guidance in a strange land. Soon I found myself looking forward to the evenings when I could sit and read The s. They became my friends, my counselors, my advisors. They were helpers upon whose aid and wisdom I could rely. They were good company and kept me from feeling so alone. The M agazine met so many of my needs. Some day I wanted to marry, have a family, be a good homemaker, besides learning about the gospel through the Magazine. Here were tested recipes, sewing suggestions, budget planning. Reading from this book I came upon this familiar statement: "The women of yesterday thought and thought and then spent, while the women of today spend and spend and then think." I remember the first time I made corn-bread from a recipe in the Magazine. I really felt proud and happy, when the lady I worked for said it was very good. "Did you bring this recipe from Sweden?" I had never heard of cornbread before. I was so thrilled when she asked me for a copy. I, writing English! Many times when in doubt what to have for dinner, she would ask: "Seen any good recipes in the Magazine lately?" If someone should ask me from what department of The did I get the most help in learning a new language, I could not truthfully name one in particular. Each one filled my needs and gave me strength in so many ways. To me it has been a priceless privilege to become acquainted with the at an early age. The Magazine helped me keep in touch with the Church and learn of its teachings. When attending the sacrament meetings, when I first came to Salt Lake City, it seemed everyone talked so fast. I had a hard time to follow the speaker. Not so with my Magazine. Here I could sit down and take time learning every word till I knew its meaning. Sometimes learning a new language can have its humorous sides. I remember the time I had tried a recipe from the Magazine, "Chicken a la King." One day as I was walking to my sister's, I walked by a house with a sign in the window, which said: "Chicken Pox." Chicken 4 la King, Chicken Pox, where was the difference? Anyway, it must be good and homemade, having a sign in the window. It would be much fun to surprise my sister with something good. After the sweet lady had explained to me what chicken pox was, we both had a good laugh. The has introduced me to so many friends, many of them gone long ago. Their influence has been felt in my life. I never read the Magazine without feeling the love and sweet influence of the sisters who edit the Magazine. They have given me a well-balanced understanding of the important things in life. It has contributed to my spiritual growth. Within me has been born a desire to be a better mother, wife, and homemaker. I still fall short of my goal, but I hope I will continue to learn and improve with the help of my Heavenly Father. I like to bear my testimony to you of the truth of the gospel. I want to express the joy that I have in the privilege of living in this wonderful land. I know that God lives, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet, and there is not a doubt in my mind, but that David O. McKay is a true prophet of God. I am so grateful to my Heavenly Father for all the blessings he has showered upon me and mine. They are too numerous to mention and too wonderful to understand. I pray our Heavenly Father to strengthen us in all we attempt to do that is right and proper. May we take from the simple things at hand and build our happiness. May we glorify his name by living lives worthy of his blessings. I pray that I may always walk in humility and obedience before him. This I do humbly and in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. All THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY and a pink ribbon sash. I wore matching bows of ribbon on each of my two long braids. The three of us wore heavy ribbed long black cotton stockings, and black laced shoes. Papa, a bit restless in church, kept pulling at his collar and crossing and uncrossing his legs, much to the annoyance of Mama. When closing prayer was said, he wasted no time ushering us out to our waiting Lizzie. Mama barely had time for a few handshakes and words of greeting. Lizzie needed no coaxing today, just one twist on the crank handle and she purred like a kitten. Papa slid over the side and under the steering wheel. He adjusted the spark, took off the brake, pulled down the gas, and we were off at a moderate rate of speed, about fifteen miles per hour, waving goodbye to our friends. It always pleased Papa as he left our friends behind in their carriages and horses, staring after us. Down Main Street we went without making the usual turn for home. "Where are we going?" inquired Mama, as we passed by our street. "Oh, I thought you might like a little ride," said Papa. "We should have gone home first and changed our clothes," remarked Mama, not wanting to get dusty, and worrying about the breeze ruining her plumes. "We won't be long," said Papa, slowing down a little. It was such a lovely drive down past the depot, across the river bridge, and along the side of the hill. A short distance to the left, the dangerous river wound its way through pasture lands, and chattering magpies flew in and out the willows and bullberry bushes. On and on we went, thoroughly enjoying the scenery. Papa was always happy when escorting Lizzie around. Now and then a little breeze swayed the feathers on Mama's hat, and the sun played hide-and-go-seek through the lacy brim. I loved to watch the shadows dance about on her lovely face. The road was becoming more rough, and she held a little tighter to her hat to keep it from bobbing up and down. "Those look like sheep tracks along the hill, don't they?' inquired Mama. 'They sure do," replied Papa, "and not more than a day or two old." "T think we had better turn back, Ed. It's getting quite dusty," said Mama apprehensively. But Papa was busy scanning the hillside. Then, quite unexpectedly, Peter cried, ""Look out, Papa, some sheeps!"' Papa slammed on his brake just in time to avoid hitting an old ewe and two baby lambs coming onto the road. The sudden force threw Mama against the windshield, brushing her forehead and bending her hat. Her hat pins pulled loose and with them came strands of long black hair. Papa's derby flew off his head and rolled 413 il], luckily Catching in a bush before reachj he river The frightened Sheep took off up the hil] aS Pana ent o Lizzie'. Side, to chase after his hat. He came back, brushing ff dir and try ng to push out the ents. Mama On the point f tea "Just look My new hat!" C cried, More conc Tned about i than the bruise her Orehead, "7 CW We should have 0ne home irst,"' Silently, Papa adjusted his hat e€gs bac " Cranked up Lizzie, threw his k over the side and Started down the road, trying to keep out of the deep Wagon-whee] ruts, "Must have been Some stra TMM the Sheepherd. Sometimes 4n old ewe Will hide under brush to lamb, and if the erders don't notice her, She's left behind," Sa a, But around an d let's at. B lying under a gs out, except Mama, to loo K at the litt] ° move, but Just looked Sa a eh it home With ys?" P I begged lease, Papa." Y you don't 1 Your mother " In her Opinion there ur nice Clean Lizzi la smelly Sheep, But wi Sympathy for the l€ Was definitely Ith three children feeling SO much little lamb, 5 C gave her Consent. "Where Will you keep jt" She asked mmediately € assured her we Would build jt a little en. "Don't feel ba f it doesn't live," Cautioned Papa. "Tt's pretty weak, and we might have trouble feeding tae 414 THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY Gently he picked up the lamb and laid it on the floor in the back of the car. WE were about to start back when we heard a baa, baa, coming from a clump of bushes near a fence. It sounded like a cry for help. Papa, who was in the process of cranking Lizzie, looked toward Mama, then took off down the slope to investigate. "Stay in the car, children, I don't want you to get your clothes dirty," ordered Mama. "Addie!" called Papa, "bring me that white rag under the front seat, this sheep has a broken leg." Reluctantly Mama stood up from the seat, so I could pull out the rag. The sheep was caught in the fence, and in its struggle to get free had somehow broken its leg. Only too happy to be of help, I started on the run down the hill, and as is so often the case on a hillside, I tripped on a stump of sagebrush, which caused my downfall. I arose with the knees out of my stockings, and skin off my knees. "Why don't you watch where you're going?" was Papa's remark of sympathy as I limped up to him with tears running down my cheeks, and handed him the rag. "Now hand me that stick," he said, pointing to one just out of his reach. "Now grab hold of his hind legs while I put on a splint!" Even though the animal was lying flat on its side with Papa astride it, I had all I could do to hang onto those kicking legs. With this act of mercy accomplished, Papa suggested we get back to Lizzie. I lifted up my blood-stained petticoats from my bleeding knees, and followed behind. "Addie, what makes you so clumsy? Just look at yourself. All we need is another stray sheep and the day will be completely ruined," groaned Mama. I took my place on the back seat, being careful not to step on the little lamb. My knees hurt, but I fought back the tears and said nothing. Unfastening my garters, I rolled down the kneeless stockings to ease the pain. No one cared how much I was suffering. "Are you going to leave the poor sheep, Papa?" James asked. "The coyotes will get it, Papa. Don't leave it for the coyotes to get," whimpered Peter. "We have all the sheep we are going to have!" said Mama. '"He'll be good, Mama." Another baa, baa, from the sheep, and James begged, "He wants to go with us, listen! I don't want to leave him for the coyotes." Little Peter began to cry. "Stand up a little, will you, Bess? Let me get that piece of rope from under the seat," said Papa to Mama. "Surely you don't intend to put another sheep in with us?" she asked, rising obediently. With rope in hand he headed for the helpless animal. It had occurred to him that, come winter, it would make good mutton. Why leave it for the coyotes when we could enjoy eating it? The task of tying the back legs together, and carrying it to the Model T was laborious, but he managed. "Open the car door, James, and we'll put it beside the other one," he said. The little hungry lamb instinctively tried to find some much-needed nourishment from the new companion, but it wasn't the right kind of sheep. "Don't cry little sheeps,"' said Peter sympathetically, patting it on the head. "Sheep," corrected Mama. "I don't want to hear you say 'sheeps' again, Peter!"' | WE started for home. Papa and Mama were very quiet. James and Peter lay on their stomachs on the seat watching the sheep, and trying to calm them. At the top of the hill we noticed the old ewe and her twin lambs, feeding contentedly by the side of the road. Papa slowed down wondering what to do, and a little fearful of Mama's wrath. He thought of all the good winter meat we could have just for the taking, and decided to stop. "You couldn't possibly be thinking of taking more sheep?" Mama asked. "Bess, listen to reason, will you? Those sheep will give us all the mutton we need this winter,"' Papa tried to explain. "What would you suggest we do, get out and walk while you load up with sheep?" she retorted. Papa was trying to figure out how he could load all those sheep. He had no intention of leaving them behind. The one with the broken leg would cause less trouble up front beside Mama, he decided. The old ewe and the little ones would settle down beside her. The real trouble began when Papa started to put the crippled sheep in the front. "Lift up your skirts, Bess, and I'll set this cripple one in front," he said. "You'll do no such thing, I'll walk first!" threatened Mama, and out of the Ford she got, tight shoes and all. Papa looked down at her feet and decided to take a chance. He took off his stiff collar and derby hat, and laid them on the front seat, and started for the sheep. "Put a couple of rocks behind the back wheels, James, so she won't roll down hill. Addie, you take off your stockings, they're torn anyway, and you and Peter stand over there by the hill and don't let the sheep go past you." Holding my skirts away from my stinging knees, I did as he bade. We were never permitted to talk back to Papa. It was hard work trying to corner a sheep with two lambs, but we did. Papa grabbed the old ewe's two back legs so she couldn't kick, and tied them together with my black stockings. It took some doing to get those frightened sheep in Lizzie, and by the time we were through, our shoes were skinned, and our clothes torn and soiled. The little orphan lamb again searched for nourishment from the old mother, but the two stronger ones pushed it away. This 416 THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY 'You had better 80 on in the house with Mama and take care of those knees," said Papa, as he helped me over the side of the car. THE old €we, anxious to put her feet on solid ground, almost kicked off my stockings before Papa could get her tied to a tree, where she stayed until a pen was built. There was no fear of the lambs straying down its throat. Peter Spent hours coaxing his new pet to drink, Opportunity. They romped and Played until completely exhausted, then would drop down on the grass to rest and sometimes have a Said it was all imagination. VOLUME NUMBER. & ° IN the beautiful springtime of the year, in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 4, 5, and 6, 1964, the 134th Annual General Conference of the Church was held and commemorated the organization of the Church on the 6th of April 1830. The rapid growth of the Church was revealed by the announcement of a membership of 2,117,451 as of December 31, 1963, with the number of full-time missionaries listed as 11,653. The unity and strength, as well as the continuity of inspired leadership, were demonstrated by President McKay, in his ninety-first year, who presided at all the conference sessions and conducted part of them and in the appointment of Paul Harold Dunn, thirty-nine, to be the new member of the First Council of Seventy. In his opening address, President McKay appealed to the saints throughout the world to live the principles of the gospel and thereby strengthen themselves and their homes: This morning | have in mind giving a warning to all young people relating to three dangers threatening the success and happiness of youth: First — the pernicious habit of smoking cigarettes; second — the increasing number of divorces; third — the tendency to hold less sacred the moral standards. One of the most precious possessions is our families. The domestic relations precede, and, in our present existence, are worth more than all other social ties. They give the first throb of the heart and unseal the deep foundations of its love. Home is the chief school of human virtues. Its responsibilities, joys, sorrows, smiles, tears, hopes, solicitudes form the chief interests of human life. President Hugh B. Brown delivered an address in which he affirmed the meaning of the gospel of Jesus Christ in a world in which so many are frustrated in their search for truth. 418 wnual Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring EIna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva Barlow Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles General Conference Unlike those whose religious faith is uneasy and precarious in the modern world of expanding scientific knowledge, we are at home with the most advanced truths discovered by scientists and with all competent philosophic thought — with truth wherever found — because our religion enjoins in us a love of knowledge and education; encourages us to seek understanding through broadening our vision and deepening our insight. This is an eternal quest. In a description of God's dealings with men through his prophets, President Nathan Eldon Tanner declared: While the prophets in the old land were receiving revelations from God, the people of Lehi on this, the American Continent, were not left without guidance. Prophets were raised up through whom God spoke and directed his people in all their doings as they would listen. He revealed to them, also, 600 years before Christ's coming, that he would come, that he was the Savior of the world, that he would be persecuted and crucified, and that he would be resurrected. One of the most blessed and heartfelt events of the conference was the farewell message of President McKay, delivered with love and solicitude: It is a great thing to be a father of boys and girls. | think it is a precious thing for our boys and girls to realize their responsibility to carry their father's name in love and honor.... We have had a wonderful conference.... Let us take with us appreciation of being a father, appreciation of being a mother. And boys and girls, go with the responsibility that you have to bring comfort and gladness and thankfulness to the hearts of your fathers and mothers. In Memoriam— Gladys Pratt Young March 24, 1895 - April 3, 1964 Gapys Pratt Young, wife of S. Dilworth Young of the First Council of Seventy, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 3, 1964. Of illustrious pioneer heritage, through the line of Parley P. Pratt, she was born in Colonia Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico, the youngest daughter of Helaman and Victoria Billingsley Pratt. Both her father and her brother, Rey Lucero Pratt, served as presidents of the Mexican Mission, and the members of the Pratt family are greatly loved and respected throughout the Church. Gladys spent her early years in the Mexican Colonies and lived with her brother Rey L. Pratt in Mexico City after the death of her parents. She was married to S. Dilworth Young, May 31, 1923, in the Salt Lake Temple. A talented woman, skilled in the creative arts, Sister Young wrote and directed many dramas and pageants for the Church and for the communities in which she lived, generously sharing her gifts, her time, and her energy. Skilled in many household handicrafts, she excelled in such accomplishments as designing costumes, painting trays, rug making, and quilting, and she taught these skills to many women in the missions and at home. She served as president of the New England Mission Relief Society from 1947 to 1951 during the time that her husband presided over that mission. The General Board of Relief Society, and the membership throughout the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to Elder Young and to the other family members. May the beautiful life and the lovely ways of Gladys Pratt Young be a blessed memory to them. Always the Moment Lael W. Hill Shall we look back and say to each other, Remember, remember— That was the first day we looked on each other's faces The instant of just before hearing each other's laughter The merest beginning of almost-touching our fingers? Shall we look back together sometime, in a frantic recalling Trying to capture the color of eyes that were lighted, Listening long for the music that once was our voices, Reaching the hands of remembering—vainly, vainly? If we knew—if our longing could wake an awareness, a knowledge, The moment of then lies parallel with our tomorrow! Look forward to loving: our love will be always beginning— Nothing is lost that we live so intensely, so purely. Ramona W. Cannon Among the women appointees to Government positions by President Lyndon B. Johnson are the following: Mrs. Norman Chandler, sixty-two, as a member of the Advisory Committee to the United States Information Agency; Mrs. Virginia Mae Brown, forty, to the Interstate Commerce Commission; Mrs.! Ndia Edwards, almost seventy, to be special consultant on youth employment to the Secretary of Labor; Mrs. Katherine E. White, fifty-seven, to be ambassador to Denmark; Mrs. Herbert Stats, fifty-three, as a consultant in the Office of Aging, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, and coordinator of Senior Citizens Month (May); Mrs. Mary Keyserling as director of the Women's Bureau, Labor Department. THE BEGUM (Princess) C. AHMED of Pakistan served as a delegate at the installation of President Leoni of Venezuela. The Begum was the first woman from Pakistan to be a delegate to the United Nations. Her countrywomen now vote, and Pakistan has _ sixteen women in Parliament, and a woman ambassador to Italy. It has been estimated by the Associated Press of the United States that from a total of 49,034 reporters and editors of major newspapers, 17,274 are women who are finding rewarding careers in various fields of journalism. QUEEN ELIZABETH of Great Britain, thirty-seven, gave birth to her fourth child (third son and third in line of succession) on March 10, 1964. A fortyone gun salute heralded the news across London. MARGARET BARTLETT ANDERSON is author of Robert Frost and John Bartlett, the Record of a Friendship (Holt, Reinhart and Winston, publishers) which reveals many aspects of the life and the poetry of this '"'genius with all that genius implies... Insight, energy, sensitivity." RUTH ABAT is public relations director and advertising manager for Raymond International, a heavy' construction company, with headquarters in New York City and construction contracts in many countries. Miss Abat has been a staff writer for several large newspapers and was formerly editor of the Dun and Bradstreet house publication, New York City. EILEEN FARRELL has been described by many eminent music critics as the finest dramatic soprano in the United States. ''Her voice is full-bodied and rich, the diction faultless, and her rhythm and phrasing unequaled."' She has sung in many of the world's greatest concert halls and has appeared with the most acclaimed symphony orchestras and in leading roles in operas and oratorios. EMILY DICKINSON "Occupation—Keeps House"' Laurel Ulrich The quotations reprinted in this article are from the book "The Letters of Emily Dickinson," edited by Thomas H. Johnson, and are used by special permission from Harvard University Press. Main Street in Amherst, Massachusetts, leads gently past the quiet common and a short row of shops, starts its ascent near the towered red brick police station, grows steeper as it moves into a residential section, then thrusts breathlessly upward until, just surmounting a view of the hills beyond, it passes the thick maze of hemlock which screens the mansion where Emily Dickinson lived and died. Emily's home is not open to the public. The white sign on the side of the house which claims it as her home can barely be glimpsed through the branches of the hedge, which reaches well past 422 the sill of the second story windows. Retreating back down the hill, one can peer through the driveway opening and see something of the house—solid, conservative red brick cupola crowded. To the left of the driveway is the clay-colored picket fence of "The Evergreens," the house Edward Dickinson built for Emily's brother Austin and his_ bride. Towering over the pickets is another hemlock hedge and, piercing it, a row of pinions standing like flagstaffs before an embassy. The house itself is a clay-colored frame version of Edward's own. It would be hard to imagine either of these houses open to tourists. There is a mystery in their aloofness which invites speculation on the lives within. It is easy to imagine a slender woman in white darting into a doorway to avoid being seen, to picture a "New England Nun" tending her flowers and her broken heart behind the tall hedge. Like the citizens of Amherst in Emily's day, seeing the hedge, hearing the half-whispered rumors, we began to believe the legend of 'Miss Emily." If we were to step through the hedge, wouldn't we see her there now, sitting in her garden dreamily writing in a small notebook, her face as pale as her dress, thinking of the legendary lover she had been forced to renounce in her youth? Unfortunately for the legend, if we had been able to penetrate the hedge in Emily's day, we would probably have seen her, with her auburn hair neatly parted in the middle, dressed in apron (a white one?), kneading bread for the family, or-doing any one of a dozen homely tasks. A household of 100 years ago required immense labor to operate. It took the efforts of Mrs. Dickinson, Lavina, an Irish maid, and Emily to keep the large Dickinson house going. There were vegetables to gather and preserve, apples to pick and make into sauce and cider. There were starched shirtfronts to iron with heavy irons heated and reheated on the woodburning stove. There were scrubbing and sweeping and dusting and polishing—all without the benefit of vacuum cleaners—and all the while carrying the weight of a many-petticoated, full-length dress. Emily hated housework, saying she "preferred pestilence." EMILY DICKINSON But she carried her share of the duties. Her province seems to have been cooking. Writinc to her friend Abiah Root, the fifteen-year-old Emily says: "I am going to learn to make bread tomorrow. So you may imagine me with my sleeves rolled up, mixing flour, milk, saleratus, etc. With a deal of grace. I advise you if you don't know how to make the staff of life to learn with dispatch." Eleyen years later she was an expert baker. At the Amherst Cattle Show in 1856 her loaf of "rye and Indian" bread won second prize— seventy-five cents. To his death Edward Dickinson was said to have refused any bread not of Emily's baking. In a letter to Mrs. Holland, in 1871, Emily says she is "pleased the Gingerbread triumphed." The recipe was Emily's: "1 Quart Flour, % Cup Butter, 4% Cup Cream, 1 Table Spoon Ginger, 1 Tea Spoon Soda, I Salt. Make up with Molasses—." It was natural that being cook she also made the fires. Writing to Austin at six A. M. She said: "T add a word to say that I've got the fires made and waked the individuals, and the Americans are conquering the British in the teakettle.... Will now proceed to get breakfast, consisting of hash and brown bread—Dessert—A. Sauce." When Forester Ainsworth took the Tenth National Census in Hampshire County, Massachusetts, in 1880, he listed Emily E. Dickinson, Occupation: "Keeps House." To all the world this was Emily Dickinson's full-time occu- pation. Those around her knew she was in the habit of writing small verses and strangely literary letters to her friends, but they had no idea that at night, while the rest of the family slept, Emily Dickinson was an intense artist who wrote volumes of poems, many of them among the greatest in American letters. Modern housewives who find themselves exhausted after a day with automatic washer and electric frypan can perhaps understand one reason for Emily's retirement from village life—the need for time and energy to pursue her clandestine life's work. Part of the greatness of Emily Dickinson's poetry is in the startling precision of her metaphors. Is it surprising that many of these come from housework? When she becomes disillusioned with an idea, it falls and breaks ''At bottom of my Mind," like a plate falling off a shelf. She talks of brushing away a summer like a fly, or of winding '"'the months in balls." "sweeping up the heart" becomes part of the bustle in the house after a death. Using themes another poet might treat with "high seriousness," Emily almost playfully confronts us with homely fact, with trimming a lampwick, sifting flour, making a bed. She catches us off guard, teases us with her slant way of seeing things, and, in the end, profoundly moves us. E. Dickinson, Occupation: Poet, triumphs; but not without retaining part of Miss Emily, Occupation: Keeps House. For a fascinating treatment of the home life of Emily Dickinson, especially in the earlier years, see Millicent Todd Bingham, Emily Dickinson's Home, New York: Harper & Row, Inc., 1955. Tide Turn Marjorie Newton Punchbowl, New South Wales, Australia | have come back to the sea, seeking strength. Here | will answer myself, here decide. The beach is deserted, lonely its length, And | am at one with sun, surf, and tide. My cliff top is shared with the sound-swift terns, The salt wet wind blowing steady and free, And all that is sane within me yearns For the pattern of life as it used to be. The breakers are never still; ebb and surge Are marked by the curves of froth on the shore, And change is constant: the patterns emerge Only to mingle their colors once more. | will face the wind and the turning tide, For the sea will return to the land, And ever the meaning of life will abide, Clear patterned on smooth and shining sand. Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, travel across the plains with their own outfit in the company of Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena's fiance died at Winter Quarters, and still bitter and sorrowing, she refuses to take an interest in Lon, who has loved her since their first meeting. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, and, later, they decided to go to San Bernardino, California, with the saints who plan to settle there. Selena and Lon also leave with the company for California, but when a division of the company is made, Lon and Selena are separated. Alfred Quale, also on his way to California, begins his courtship of the lovely Selena. 'THere were days at a time now when the cemetery at Winter Quarters and the happenings there seemed very far away to Selena. She was enjoying the companionship of her new friend, Alfred Quale. He was so goodnatured and cheerful that her despondency seemed to lessen with the passing of each day. VY ss i CHAPTER 5 Hazel M. Thomson Wk Too, some of Belle's enthusiasm may have rubbed off on Selena. Belle had never been happier. When they arrived at Resting Springs they did just that; they drank from the spring, filled every available water container, and rested. The feed was plentiful, and the leaders decided to give the animals a few days' rest. "T?'s an oasis," Josiah said, looking at the luxuriant growth of grass. "Plenty of feed and plenty of water. Still, it makes me a little uneasy." "For goodness sakes, Josiah, why? Can't you just take advantage of the chance to rest a few days without dreaming up something to worry about?" "T'm not dreaming, Belle," he answered. "The leaders aren't dreaming either. They feel it necessary that we wait up here, until the other company arrives. We have been traveling so slowly that Brother Rich and his group can't be more than a few days back." Selena, knitting nearby, was surprised to find her heart skipping a beat. Lon! He would be in camp soon! She bent lower over her work, unwilling to betray any sign of emotion about Lon. She realized the lack of encouragement she had given him. The amazing thing was that he had remained so constant in coming to see her at every opportunity, in view of her own actions. But Selena did not yet know her own mind, so she said nothing. It was late the next day that the Rich Company caught up with the lead camp. Just as Belle had hoped and Selena expected, Lon arrived at their wagon in time to eat the evening meal with them. "Lon!" cried Josiah, slapping his tall friend on the back, as the two friends shook hands. "I was afraid we'd seen the last of you until California." "It's mighty good to be here," replied Lon, glancing at Selena. "I'm glad you came to a place with enough feed to stop and let the animals eat and rest for a few days or we never could have caught you. You've made good time."' "And you've made better than we did," said Josiah smiling, "thanks to Belle." "Now, Josiah," interrupted Belle, ''there's no need to be saying that." "Why? What do you mean, Josiah?" Lon asked. "Oh, all those rocks Belle has moved out of the road. Don't tell me you didn't see them as you went by." "That's all right, Belle,'' Lon said, moving over and shaking hands with her. "Josiah knows 426 well enough that he has the best wife on the wagon train. Hope I can be as lucky when I get me a wife." As he finished speaking, he turned and looked directly at Selena, taking her hand in his. She thrilled at his touch-— and immediately resented it, that anyone could have this effect upon her, when the man she had loved lay in the cemetery at Winter Quarters. She resented even the thought of anyone taking his place. With Alfred it was different. She enjoyed his company, his constant jesting. It gave a lift to her downcast spirits. That was all. "Selena. She dropped her eyes before the message she read in Lon's. "Selena, it's so good to see you again. I was sorry to miss seeing you that last night, but some of us were sent into the settlement on a last minute assignment. We had to go." Of course! Thought Selena. She might have expected Lon had some reason of that sort. His personal affairs would always come second to whatever he considered to be a call from authority. It wasn't, then, that he had not wanted to see her. She had wondered about it, and now that she had found out, it angered her a little. She was puzzled by her own illogical reasoning, resenting the effect of Lon's presence or his touch, yet hurt that he would consider other things more important than she was. THe following morning the sun rose on a cloudless sky. By ten o'clock, the day gave promise of being the hottest of the trip to date. "I'm glad we're not traveling today, Belle," said Selena as they finished their wash at the creek the men had dug away from the spring. "I think we needed the rest as much as the cattle and horses did."" She looked away toward the clump of trees by which they had stopped their wagon. The shade looked very inviting. "T know what you're thinking, Selena," said Belle, following her gaze. "I'd enjoy lying around in the shade a bit myself on a day like this, but Josiah says there's no time to waste, that we've got to get to California and get some crops in as soon as possible." "T realize that," answered Selena, "'but at least we can rest in the shade for awhile this morning. We've finished the wash. What's left that needs doing right now?" "Hay," answered Belle, picking up the pile of wet clothes. "Hay?" "Yes. This tall grass that the cattle have been enjoying so. Josiah says we'll never find any more of it until we get across the desert. Lon was there at the wagon this morning, after you left to go to the spring. He suggested that we repack the wagon, putting the things we must have every day near the back where we can get at them, then fill every wagon with the grass. The men have scythes to cut it, but the cattle have eaten it so far back away from camp that all the women and children will help carry it to the wagons and tramp it in." Selena sighed, her hopes for a pleasant, restful day vanishing. She went alongside of Belle, doYOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING ing her share, though Belle cheerfully offered to carry it for her. Back at the wagon she climbed in and tramped it down as firmly as she could, after it reached too near the wagon cover for Belle to get in and help. There were stickers in among the grasses that clung to her dress and scratched her legs through her heavy stockings. Late in the afternoon they stopped for a bite to eat and AIlfred came by. He peered into the wagon and laughed heartily. "What is this? A haystack? You going to take it with you and set it down in your field in California? You won't need half that much to cross this little desert." He walked on, still chuckling. Selena, hot and tired and dirty, sat trying to pull the stickers and burrs from her clothing. This was like Lon, she decided bitterly. Always going to extra lengths of precaution, when half as much would probably have been enough. Hadn't they followed the trail many weeks and never been without grass yet? There was no room now for her to sleep in the wagon, so she moved her quilts out under the stars. She was completely exhausted and_ slept soundly through the oppressive heat of the night. SELENA awakened after Belle and Josiah were up, and as Belle opened the back flap on the wagon she called, "That grass really sank low in the night. We've only got half a load." "Half a load?" Selena watched Josiah come up and look into the wagon. "That grass didn't sink anywhere. Someone stole it!" She saw the look of anger on Josiah's face as he walked away hurriedly. She knew that Josiah suspected Alfred. She also knew there would not be an easy way to prove it. There had certainly been others besides Alfred who had thought it unnecessary to fill their wagons so full. After rolling up her bedding, Selena propped a mirror against the spokes in the wagon wheel, removed the pins from her long, dark hair and began brushing it, enjoying the clean feel of it. Just then Josiah returned to camp, Lon beside him. "IT thought it was mighty strange yesterday that he was so all-fired unconcerned about filling his wagon," Josiah was saying. "I think you're wrong, Lon, this time. Seems to me we should let him know we're on to the trick." "You can't prove it, Josiah," said Lon. ''Best thing to do is just let me take this fork and help you fill it up again. There's still some cut that wasn't carried in last night." Selena looked at Lon, startled. He stood there, strong and handsome, head bared, exactly as she had seen him a long time ago, and he held the fork as he had the shovel, throwing great thuds of earth into an open grave at Winter Quarters. INow began the most dreadful part of the journey, as the Lyman group moved ahead. This was the stretch from Resting Springs to the Mojave River, leaving the other party to take advantage of the feed and water they were leaving. "We'll reach Salt Springs first," said Josiah, as the wagon train 428 moved slowly along under the blistering sun. "Captain Hunt says we'll appreciate the water in our own barrels then, warm and brackish or not." And now, surprisingly to many, the road began to make a steady climb in the desert country, adding to the burden of both people and animals in the devastating heat. Selena began to feel the stickiness of her clothes. For several days there could be no water used for washing purposes. Every drop must be carefully hoarded to preserve the life of beast and man alike. The sandy floor of the desert was hot to the touch as they spread out bed covers at night, yet often, before morning came, the cold desert night caused the travelers to welcome a covering. Upon arising, there was no water to be used for washing faces. Selena felt the sand, which arose in a cloud from the movement of so many horses and cattle heavy in her hair under her sunbonnet. A cheer went up when, at last, the straggly growth of trees marking Salt Springs came into view. "You will find the water all right to do some washing," said Brother Lyman, riding back along the line. "But drinking it will only add to your thirst. Too much will make you sick, and if the animals are allowed to get to it, they will drink too much and we are certain to lose some of them." JosAH, Belle, and Selena walked together to the spring. It ran clear and looked deceivingly clean and cool. "It looks all right, to me," Belle said, dipping her hand into the water. "I wonder if they're sure this is the spring that tastes so awful." Josiah looked at his wife. "Belle, both Brother Lyman and Captain Hunt passed through here not so long ago. I think you can take their word about the water." "But it looks so good," said Belle, dropping to the ground. "T'll just take a little taste.'' She cupped her hands and lifted them full to her mouth. Josiah looked at Selena, shaking his head. "Phew!" Belle exclaimed. "I think I'm poisoned!"' "You heard what Brother Lyman said," Josiah reminded her, "that it was possible to do just that. Only he expected the people to have enough sense not to drink the foul-tasting stuff. It was only the animals that he felt must be kept away from it." "Salt Springs!" Belle spoke disgustedly. "I thought all along I could stand the taste of a little salt, rather than that hot stuff in the barrels, but this is just terrible. If Bitter Springs tastes any worse than this, I'd like to taste it!" "And you probably will," her husband agreed. "We can wash, anyway," Selena said, as she lifted the water to her face. It stung her sunburned cheeks, but still she welcomed having her face feel clean once more. When there was time she would wash her hair. Right now there were other things to be washed. "Come on, Selena," said her sister. ""Let's get our clothes that need it the worst and get busy before the spring gets too crowded." YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING THE stop there was only for the night, and on the morning they began making their weary way on toward Bitter Springs. The sparse growth of salt grass that they found now offered no hopes of replenishing their fast-diminishing hay supply. There was no riding in the wagons now. The sandy floor of the desert was left behind and the road lay continually uphill, the rocky terrain making walking difficult. Selena found herself thinking that this part of the journey was something of a triumph; that nothing she would ever experience in the future in the way of physical discomfort would probably equal this. Her tongue began to feel swollen and thick and her parched lips broke into blisters. For two days she had not seen Alfred and was glad that she did not have to smile at his jests. Talking began to take too much effort in the blazing sun and it was a quiet, solemn group who toiled on in the intense heat. That night was a dry camp, for the entire water supply was exhausted. Then, when the news was sent back that the Mojave River was within the day's journey, cheers were given and steps quickened, glad that stops such as the one at Bitter Springs had been brief. Belle saw Quale that night returning toward their wagon with Selena. Belle watched her sister smiling up into the man's lowered face. Impatiently, Belle wished for the remainder of the trip to be done with so that Lon could be around permanently. Events were moving swiftly toward some kind of crisis. Belle wondered what it would be. (To be continued)