THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Gertrude R. Garff Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Edith S. Elliott
Leone G. Layton
Leone O. Jacobs
Mary G. Judd
Priscilla L. Evans
Blanche B. Stoddard
Velma N. Simonsen
Luella N. Adams
Florence J. Madsen
Evon W. Peterson
Isabel B. Callister
Anna B. Hart
Ann P. Nibley

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Editorial Secretary Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 33 OCTOBER 1946 No. 10

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
Pioneer Preparations for Winter Ann P. Nibley 651
Three Natural Bridges of Utah Willard Luce 657
Pioneer Stories and Incidents: A Stampede on the Plains President Amy Brown Lyman 668
Painted Weeds from Fairyland Rosella F. Larkin 673
Golden Harvest Beatrice Rordame Parsons 662

FICTION
The Intruder Margery S. Stewart 674
Faith Is a Heritage Chapter 7 Christie Lund Coles 680
Sallie-Start-Something Alice Whitson Norton 683

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 670
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 671
Editorial: The Importance of Child Training Vesta P. Crawford 672
Notes From the Field General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 685
Regulations Governing the Submittal of Material for "Notes From the Field" 685

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: The Educational System Developed Elder H. Wayne Driggs 696
Visiting Teachers' Messages: Courage President Amy Brown Lyman 700
Work Meeting Sewing: Stitches and Seams Work Meeting Committee 701
Literature: Youthtime of a Nation Dedicated to Freedom Elder Howard R. Driggs 702
Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature: Repentance Elder T. Edgar Lyon 708
Social Science: Social Science Committee 712

POETRY
Yesterdays Frontispiece Beatrice K. Ekman 649
God Speed the Plow Anonymous 656
The Meaning of Autumn Evelyn Fjeldsted 661
Our Goal Grace Zenor Pratt 669
Nothing Is Lost Dorothy J. Roberts 695
Crocheting Merling Dennis Clyde 699
Triolet Grace M. Candland 717
Parade Courtney Cottam 718
In Sibilant Regret

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 77,500

YESTERDAYS Beatrice K. Ekman I There are so many little ghosts that haunt my memory? The scent of lilacs after rain, leaves falling from a tree. Up from the lands of yesterday the little ghosts come, one by one; I bar my door but through the day into my thoughts they run. II I remember the golden autumn days In my valley far away, Where drifting shadows, through purple haze, On the mountains and brown fields lay. I remember the scarred peaks, sheer and tall, Reaching up from the timber line, And the maples flaming the creviced wall Of the canyon's steep incline. I remember the crimsoned inland sea When the sunset reddened the sky, And the stars that faded pallidly When the dawn came up like a cry. Today, by an unfamiliar sea, I watch the returning tide, The hills of my valley are calling me While the rolling breakers ride. Ill You had been gone for a year and a day And I stood by your door alone; Long shadows over the garden lay; Overhead a pale star shone. Ivy shuttered, your window pane, The vines on the chimney stirred, And from the hedge in the narrow lane Came the lonely call of a bird. Only the silence answered me? A silence strange and new, Then out of my grief and longing My soul called out to you. And out of the dusk and silence, Certain as sound and flame, I knew that you stood beside me? I knew that you spoke my name. The Cover: "When the Work's All Done" From a Photograph by Willard Luce VOL. 33, NO. 10 OCTOBER 1946 AVAR D FAIRBANKs the "Pioneer Mother" Monument in Vancouver, Pioneer Preparations for Winter Ann P. Nibley Member, Relief Society General Board HE pioneers of Utah were a thrifty, industrious, self-reliant, and ingenious people. For several years after their settlement in the Great Basin they were alone and isolated, far removed from the comforts and luxuries of civilization they: had previously known. When they came to the West, they had no other possessions than the small amounts of food and clothing which they carried in their battered and worn handcarts and wagons. Anything more than that, which would add to their sustenance and comfort, they had to produce and manufacture after their arrival, with the labor of their hands.. Living as they did in a country where the four seasons were definitely marked, each season called for its specific tasks. Spring was the time to plow and plant; summer was the season in which to irrigate the crops, destroy the weeds, and cultivate the soil; fall was harvest time, the time when the grains, fruits, and vegetables were gathered and stored; winter was the season when nature rested, and man took care of his possessions and waited until the ever recurring miracle of planting and reaping could again be repeated. The harvest season was the busiest time of the year for the pioneer family and, probably, the most challenging. With a realization of their isolated condition and remoteness from sources of supply, it was most important that they should conserve and preserve, for their use and sustenance, all products of garden, orchard, and farm. It was also necessary for them to provide and prepare warm clothing for winter use. From the earliest settlement of Utah and throughout the pioneer period, wheat appears to have been the principal crop, for from time immemorial, this staple grain has been considered "the staff of life." An effort was therefore made by each pioneer family to produce enough wheat each year to ensure an adequate supply of flour until the succeeding harvest. Threshing day on the farm was always interesting and satisfying. While the work was heavy for the men, the mother's task seemed the greatest of all. As Lavine Bennett has written in "Harvest Time in Pioneer Days:" The mother's task was great. With few conveniences, she would have to start days in advance to get her salt-risin' bread ready and enough baked to supply the threshers. The meals were prepared from food grown on the farm home-cured pork, dried corn, squash, potatoes and dried apple pie for dessert. The threshers' breakfast consisted of mush and cream, ham or eggs and mutton chops and eggs, hot biscuits and molasses or fruit.... And some people served pie or cake: When tables were not long enough they had to be lengthened with lumber from the farm. Table cloths, if used, were supplied by the neighbors. When the signal was given that the meal was ready, the threshers would all line up at the kitchen door and wait their turn to wash their faces in a little tin wash basin that stood on the stump of a tree or a long wash Page 651 652  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1946 bench near the kitchen door. When the meal was on the table, from four to six young ladies would be stationed around the table with long willow boughs to keep the flies away while the hungry threshers ate. Frequently, after dinner, the good housewives would invite the neighbors in for a piece of old-fashioned jelly cake, mince or squash pie, doughnuts or cider, and the evening would be spent in telling stories, singing, and dancing. Straw, the by-product of wheat, was also an important item, and its use again showed the resourcefulness of the pioneers. After the threshing was over, newly washed bed ticks were filled with fresh, clean straw, and placed as a foundation for the feather beds which were made of feathers from geese, ducks, and chickens. Straw was also laid down under the cleaned rag carpets. It was used for making hats and brooms, for bedding down animals in the winter, and as a covering over vegetables in the pits to keep them from freezing. ANY discussion of wheat and its importance brings to mind the great grain-saving project given to the Relief Society, in 1876, by President Brigham Young, the object of which was to store wheat for a time of need; and also the fact that for nearly seventy years a supply of hundreds of bushels of wheat has been carefully conserved and kept constantly available. In addition to their many household duties and responsibilities, pioneer Relief Society women not only collected wheat and funds for this cause, but they personally went into the fields after the harvest and gleaned to add to their wheat supply. Corn was another valuable crop in the early days. It was harvested in the fall and provided food for both men and animals. 'The husks and stalks were used for ordinary fuel as well as fuel for smoking fish, hams, and bacon. Corn husks were also used for filling mattresses. Many pounds of sweet corn were dried and enjoyed during the winter. Popcorn was also raised and carefully dried for use during the coming months. With the manufacture of molasses, it became a popular article and was soon well known in all the settlements. During the long winter evenings, great pans of this corn were popped on the kitchen range and, with the addition of molasses, delicious balls could be made which were especially welcome on birthdays or at Christmas time. Sugar was an extremely scarce article during pioneer times as it had to be brought from the Missouri River in wagons. When available, it sold as high as two dollars a pound. Many who craved sweets and were unable to obtain sugar, tried to satisfy their appetites by boiling down squash, carrots, and beets. Then came the raising of sugar cane. This crop thrived well in the valleys and was harvested in the fall and made into molasses. Later, bees were raised and the honey was used for sweetening fruit, for making candy, as a spread for bread, and as an ingredient for cough medicine. Beeswax was also made from the honeycomb. A great variety of vegetables was raised by the pioneers as early as 1848, such as potatoes, squash, carrots, onions, cabbage, and beets. A good share of these was preserved for winter; some were stored in pits, PIONEER PREPARATIONS FOR WINTER while others were put away in the thrifty farmer's cellar. Beans and peas were dried and stored for winter, although some were reserved for planting, as were other seeds of vegetables, fruits, and flowers. Squash was dried out in the open air as-well as by hanging it from the rafters of the farmer's kitchen. Fruit trees were planted during the first few years after the arrival of the pioneers.. Apples, peaches, apricots, plums, cherries, grapes, and currants grew and yielded abundantly. As early as 1855, one writer noted that "Dr. Richards' house was half hidden by a splendid orchard and garden, while orchards and gardens lay behind and around the mansion of Brigham Young." Peach and apple time was one of the high lights of the harvest season, and apple-paring bees and peach-cutting bees were a worthwhile and fashionable pastime. On these occasions, the young people of the community would all "turn out" together and spend the day or evening cutting and spreading the precious fruit on boards under the trees or on the low roofs of houses or sheds to dry. "It was surprising how much could be accomplished and, except for some badly stained hands, they were none the worse for the work." Later in the evening, there was the serving of refreshments, and dancing to the music of, perhaps, a violin, French harp, harmonica or accordion. It was not uncommon, if it happened to be a moonlight night, for the young people to serenade on their way home. In preparation for winter, the industrious pioneer woman excelled in making jams, jellies, and preserves, both from orchard fruits and also from wild berries such as chokecherries, bullberries, and ground cherties which grew in abundance on low, bushy vines in fields and gardens. Courtesy: The Children's Friend PIONEER CANDLE MOLD They also put up many kinds of pickles, made mincemeat, plum puddings, and Christmas cakes. Hops were gathered in the fall and laid by for the making of yeast and root beer, and herbs such as catnip, yarrow, and peppermint were gathered for the making of medicine. It was customary in the early days for every farmer to raise hogs. After the animals had been fattened with com in the fall, "hog killing" took place. From these, the women made head cheese and sausage, rendered lard, salted bacon, and cured hams. In some instances, meat was cured by being put in liquid brine. From scraps of fat they made soap. Cattle and sheep were killed occasionally in the community and the fresh meat was greatly enjoyed. Beef suet was prized for use in the making of plum puddings, which were made six and eight at a time and hung in the cellars until they were needed, to be steamed for some festive occasion. Beef suet was also used in the making of mincemeat. Mutton tallow was used for making candles and also for the making of salve for chapped hands. After the grain and the fruits and the vegetables had been harvested and stored for winter, it became a custom to celebrate the occasion by harvest festivals. It is interesting to note that the first of these festivals was held on the tenth of August, 1848: The season was one of scarcity, although there was no serious famine. The seagull miracle had happened a month or two before, and the settlers were truly grateful. This festival was a grand affair amid humble surroundings. A bowery in the center of the old fort had been erected, and underneath its beneficent shade, richly and bounteously laden tables were spread. There was bread, beef, butter, cheese, cakes, pastry, green corn, watermelons, and a great variety of vegetables. Parley P. Pratt describes it thus: "Large sheaves of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and other products were hoisted on poles for exhibition, and there were prayers and thanksgiving, congratulations, songs, speeches, music, dancing, smiling faces, and merry hearts. In short, it was a great day with the people of these valleys, and to be remembered by those who had suffered and waited anxiously for the results of a first effort to redeem the interior deserts of America." (Laura Angell King, "Harvest Time in Pioneer Days," Daughters of the Utah Pioneers. ) FTER the harvest festival, the attention of the busy housewife was turned to the making of clothing, bed and table linen. Most of the sewing, knitting, and quilting was done in the winter months after the heavy fall work was completed. Wool was washed, carded, spun, and dyed by pioneer women, and the yarn used for the making of stockings, socks, and mittens. Wool was also used for the making of quilts, the weaving of linsey for dresses, and for wool sheets and blankets. I have heard my beloved grandmother, Temperance Ann Doney, tell of helping to shear the sheep, washing and spinning the wool, and making it into linsey cloth, of dyeing the yarns by means of roots and plants gathered from the fields. With these colored yarns, she made various shades and plaid materials with which she sewed dresses and suits to clothe herself and her five little girls, her husband, and her two sons. She also made and sold rag tugs and carpets. I have also heard my grandfather, Samuel R. Parkinson, relate how his wife made his suits for several years from buckskin which they had tanned themselves. Flax was raised successfully' in Utah in the early days and woven into linen. Many of the tablecloths, sheets, and towels, also much clothing used at that time, were made from this material. Underclothing and bed linen were made principally of unbleached muslin which was obtained from the local stores. The making of quilts was an important part of the pioneers' preparation for winter, and quilting bees were very popular, as they gave opportunity for recreation as well as work. Latter-day Saint women have been famous down through the years 654 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 PIONEER PREPARATIONS FOR WINTER Courtesy, The Salt Lake Tribune 655 PIONEER SPINNING WHEEL for their beautiful quilt making and, today, their lovely quilts are among the most popular and sought-after articles sold at the Mormon Handi craft Gift Shop in Salt Lake City. Another important preparation for winter was wood hauling. On the day appointed for this enterprise, ox teams and horse and mule teams, attached to wagons and running gears, could be seen wending their way along the dusty roads to the canyons. In the evenings they would return with their logs. Sometimes this process was kept up for several days as wood must also be procured for the "meeting-house" and for the "widows of the ward." When all the necessary wood had been hauled, a "wood supper and dance' was held. What a feast this would be as the sisters brought steaming kettles and pans filled with meat and vegetables, chicken pies, "spicy pickles, preserves and shimmering jellies," doughnuts, and delicious cakes, and every appetizing food known to the group! It was then spread on long tables in the ward hall. After the dinner, the tables were cleared away "and soon was added to the sweet confusion of laughter and cheerful conversation, the merry strains of the violin and the strong, clear voice of the prompter directing the dancers through the mazes of quadrilles, Scotch reels, French fours, and other figures of harmless dances suitable to the manner and religious character of the participants." The pioneers were socially united, and they made a great deal of their work in preparation for winter a pleasure. "Their common interests and problems made them unselfish and charitable. They shared and, in their kindness to one another, they found their greatest joy." They exchanged labor; neighbor helped neighbor in gathering and storing the crops; and they mingled together as one large family. The pioneers have left us many valuable lesson, but none greater than the lessons of thrift, resourcefulness, self-reliance, and ingenuity which enabled them to survive in the desert and found a prosperous empire. I acknowledge the courtesy of Kate B. Carter, President of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, for supplying part of the information in this article. GOD SPEED THE PLOW (Inscribed on an Old Cup in Pioneer Exhibit) Let the wealthy and great Roll in splendor and state; I envy them not, I declare it. I eat my own lamb, My own chickens and ham; I shear my own fleece and I wear it. I have lawns, I have bowers, I have fruits, I have flowers; The lark is my morning alarmer. So jolly boys now Here's God speed the plow, Long life and success to the farmer. Historical Pamphlet, October 1942, Compiled by Kate B. Carter. 656 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1946 Three Natural Bridges of Utah FACT AND LEGEND Willard Luce With photographs by the author T has been said by John Henry Cutler that anyone can be a sculptor. "All you have to do is to get a hunk of marble and throw away the pieces you don't want." This is exactly what Utah's most prolific sculptress, Mother Nature, has done. Only Mother Nature hasn't worked in marble alone; she has worked in granite, and limestone, 'in onyx and clay, and in sandstone. In the Natural Bridges National Monument, fifty-one miles west of Blanding in Southeastern Utah, her medium has been sandstone, and her principal tool has been running water. With it, she has built three bridges with walls varying from an estimated thirty to one hundred feet thick. If the combined openings were placed together, they would lack only thirteen feet from being as long as a Salt Lake City block, and, if placed one on top of another, would be one and one-half times as high as the State Capitol building. Water possesses one characteristic which makes it Mother Nature's greatest carving agent. Water is definitely gregarious by nature. As most of the water is found in the oceans of the world, all other water attempts to arrive there by the quickest and shortest routes possible. In only a very short time these routes become well defined, for water is not a sluggish traveler. In its rush, it carries dirt and boulders and trees for long distances. It is continually scooping at the soft places, wearing them deeper and wider and making them larger and more impressive. Sometimes water is not a wise. Traveler. Often it goes long distances only to be forced to circle back near the place it passed a short time before. As if impatient with its own weakness, it pushes at the intervening wall until, finally, the wall gives way and a short cut is made. Occasionally, such a short cut leaves the hard stone at the top intact, thus forming a bridge for the water to pass beneath. Thus it was that Mother Nature sculptured three beautiful bridges in the Natural Bridges National Monument. It has been sixty years since a white man first beheld these masterpieces carved in the long ago. In the 1880's, the prospector, Cass Hite, brought back the first recorded accounts of the bridges. It was in these same 1880's that the first cattlemen drifted their herds into the Dark Canyon country. Undoubtedly, many a puncher has thrown his bed roll beneath one of these bridges after a hard day's ride, thankful for its shelter, but little concerned with the natural wonder above him. Most cowboys live in a world of natural wonders and accept them, without question and without awe, as part of their environment. It was not until 1908 that the bridges became sufficiently well known to be set aside as a natural Page 657 OWACHOMO (EDWIN) BRIDGE This bridge is the best known of Southeastern Utah's three great bridges in the White Canyon area. The Owachomo Bridge is in Armstrong Canyon, a tributary of White Canyon. The arch is 200 feet across and the height is 108 feet. Monument. According to the United States Park Service, a national monument is set aside primarily for educational purposes. 'The natural bridges are one of the best examples of water erosion in sandstone. For years, however, it was quite a job becoming educated in this particular style of water erosion. It was a five-day horseback trip in those days, and not such an easy five days at that. Despite this, the number of visitors increased until, in 1928, twenty years later, a road was extended from Blanding to the first bridge. HIS is the Owachomo Bridge, which is still locally known as the Edwin Bridge. It is the best known of the three, partly because of postcard sales, but principally because many American tourists insist on driving up to their scenery in ease and comfort. The Owachomo Bridge has a thickness of ten feet and a span of 200 feet. It rises 108 feet above the floor of Armstrong Canyon. The name Owachomo is a Hopi Indian word. It means "flat-rock mound." It is given to the bridge because of a near-by promontory which very well fits the word, "Owachomo." Three miles down Armstrong Canyon is Kachina Bridge which is more often called Caroline Bridge by the local people. Although the opening here is relatively small compared ? with the other two bridges, the overhanging rock measures 107 feet through at the narrowest place, just twenty-seven feet thicker than the 658 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 THREE NATURAL BRIDGES OF UTAH Latter-day Saint Tabernacle in Salt Lake City is tall. The span of the bridge is 186 feet, and the height of the opening, ninety-eight feet. This bridge was named from the Hopi word meaning "sacred dance," because of the dance symbols found carved on the bridge. The last bridge, the Sipapu_ or Augusta Bridge, has the largest opening and is the most impressive and most beautiful of the three. There are 222 feet between the bottom of the arching stone and the canyon floor, and 261 feet from one canyon wall to the next. Two Salt Lake Tabernacles could be placed, one on top of the other, within this space, with eleven feet to spare on the sides and sixty-two feet overhead. The 659 space lacks just six inches of being as tall as the Latter-day Saint Temple and the Angel Moroni in Salt Lake City. The name Sipapu is also taken from the Hopi Indian language. It means, "the gateway through which the souls of men come from the underworld and return to it." There is a Hopi legend concerning this bridge which tells that, at one time, all the souls of men were locked within the earth. When the animals heard about this, they decided to release them. The coyote took his turn first at digging. Following him, one after another, the different animals took their turns digging deeper and enlarging the opening. Last was the badger, who finally SIPAPU (AUGUSTA) BRIDGE This bridge, in White Canyon, sometimes called the world's most beautiful natural bridge, arches 222 feet above the canyon and has a span of 261 feet. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 " MRS. MOTI I. KACHINA (CAROLINE) BRIDGE The massive Kachina Bridge, in Armstrong Canyon, has an arch 107 feet thick and a span of 186 feet THREE NATURAL BRIDGES OF UTAH completed the opening and released the souls of men. 'Their release, however, was only probationary; for once the earth was finished with them, they had to return through this same opening. So maybe it wasn't Mother Nature at all who did the sculpturing. Neither the animals nor Mother Nature signed their names as some sculptors do to their works of art. True, a few vain sight-seers have signed theirs, trying to claim the glory. But this is a foolish gesture, for the United States Park Service knows 661 full well that no mere man did the job. Many of those trying to claim the glory have had to make an extra trip just to remove their signatures. Trying to claim the sculptorship of a monument is a serious offense in the eyes of the Government. But, regardless of whether it was the animals or Mother Nature who created the natural bridges, they are there, beautiful in line and color, awe-inspiring in size. A gorgeous sight to see on your next trip into San Juan County, the chasm-land of the Southwest. OUR GOAL Evelyn Fjeldsted Would we be like the stones that lie Against a quiet, nameless hill, Where spring skies bend to measure rain But only sand dunes move at will? If we were all inanimate, The storms of life, so ominous, Would be unknown. Oblivious peace And silent depths would shelter us; But then we would not see the light, The hope-filled promise of each day, Nor could we search for priceless truth That blesses with its every ray. The builders once rejected stone; No rock shall be our shining goal. We must have faith until the truth From all earth's discord frees the soul. Golden Harvest Beatrice Rordame Parsons THERE was a picture of a farm on the billboard. There were big, white horses, sleek, brown cows, and baby chicks as yellow as butter. Bumpty had seen it a hundred times, but his blue eyes were wide and his four-year-old body was tense with excitement. "What does it say, Aunt Pamela? Read it to me, please!" Pamela had read it over and over. She did not have to lift her eyes to the sign. Monotonously, she repeated: "Be a good American. Help harvest the crops. America must feed the world. Spend your vacation at Byde-A-Wyle Farm." It was signed, "Dale Saunders, Owner." Bumpty jiggled eagerly. "Are we good Americans, Pam? Does it mean us?" Pam nodded carelessly, then hurried to explain: "It means everybody, not just us." Under her breath she added: "But definitely not little Pamela Farrington and her nephew, Stephen David, alias 'Bumpty' Wright." Pamela had no idea of burying herself in the country, being nineteen and a stenographer in a busy office. What was the use? Bumpty couldn't seem to understand that a girl needed to have fun every minute of her vacation. Bert, and the rest of her crowd, had planned so many exciting days at the beach, in the canyons... "You promised!" cried Bumpty, accusingly, Page 662 Pamela sighed. Bumpty seemed to find a promise in everything she said. When she had promised her sister that she would take care of Bumpty while Nan went to a distant city to care for a relative who was ill, Pamela hadn't dreamed that the job would be so trying. She had told herself that with her landlady, Mrs. Hudsen, to look after Bumpty on occasions, her vacation wouldn't be interrupted. And she wasn't going to have it interrupted by a trip to the country, anyway. She just had to make Bumpty understand. "T don't like the country, darling. It's too far away. And there are bugs, and worms, and..." "T like worms," said Bumpty, cheerfully. "I like bugs, too." Pamela threw up her hands in despair. "Oh, Bumpty, I just can't go off to the country like that! I've got to think about it." She had thought about it and the answer was No! "Anyway, I just said..." "You'd take me to the country," finished Bumpty with a wail. Pamela was glad they were passing an ice-cream shop. A cone changed the subject. Bumpty didn't mention the farm again. Well, she'd escaped that easily enough. Now for Bert and the crowd. Mrs. Hudsen had promised to sit 'with Bumpty while he was asleep. She kissed him as she tucked him into bed. He closed his eyes and his dark lashes made tiny shadows on his cheeks. His mouth was soft and smiling. GOLDEN HARVEST "We're going to the country in the morning," he said. PAMELA felt like snatching him up and spanking him. Instead, she tucked him gently into his blanket and decided that she loved him very much. But not enough to take him to the country! When she got to the drugstore on the corner where Bert and the crowd were waiting, she told him about Bumpty and the farm. He threw back his head and roared. "What could you do on a farm, Pam? You don't know a tractor from a plow. A typewriter's more your speed." Everyone laughed. Pamela joined in, but her laughter sounded hollow. Why did they all think her such a dumb bunny? "Or, maybe," continued Bert slyly, "you could use those little curlicues you put on paper to dig spuds with!" Again everybody laughed. Her small, red mouth looked a little stubborn. "I could learn." Bert tried to tease her. "Oh, girls, just look at that horrid grasshopper!" Bert was quite a clown. Usually she enjoyed his clowning. But not this time. She might be afraid of bugs and things but she wasn't a baby. Almost without thinking, she slipped from her stool. "Sorry, to break up your evening, Bert, but Pam's got to get home and pack. If you miss me just drop me a card at Byde-A-Wyle Farm. Bumpty and I are off bright and early in the morning." Even though she had said it? even though she had gone home to toss things into a suitcase Pamela couldn't quite believe that it was she and her nephew who rode the 663 bus to the Growers' Market, and hailed a ride in a Byde-A-Wyle truck. As the elderly driver stowed her bag, she muttered under her breath, "Why, I must be crazy! ['m not even sure they'll let me in, and as for Bumpty...." The driver's eyes twinkled under his graying brows as he lifted the little fellow into the high cab. "They'll let you in," he assured her comfortably, "and glad to have you. As for Bumpty, Grandie likes little boys and there's plenty of room." He got in beside them, and added gravely: "As for being crazy, you're just being sensible. If everyone would help a little it wouldn't be so hard." Pamela colored and hid her face while she wiped an imaginary speck of dirt from Bumpty's cheek. She hadn't really come to help. She had just wanted. To prove that being 'a stenographer didn't put her in class "D" for dumbbells. "Is your farm nice, Mr. Byde-Awyle?" asked Bumpty eagerly, as the truck rolled slowly along the highway. The driver laughed. "My name's Aaron Jones. I work for Dale." He told her how Grandie had managed the farm while Dale was in the marines, and about the bumper crop he had raised since he had come home. "The neighbors help when they can, and students from the high schools drop around when there aren't any classes. But they'll be glad you've come. No one else is there right now except Miss Nina Creighton, Dale's fiancee." They had left the highway now and were traveling along a lane edged with apple trees, heavy with russet 664 fruit. Aaron brought the truck to a halt before a white picket gate. "Welcome to Byde-A-Wyle!" he announced. The farm was so big it frightened Pamela. Acres and acres of growing things stretched across the valley towards the purple hills. While Aaron lifted Bumpty down and went to get the suitcase, Pamela looked about her. The house was tall and square, with an old-fashioned dignity in its sturdy lines that told of strength and firmness. There were flaming asters and zinnias along the fences, and a green lawn made a thick carpet on each side of the graveled walk. In the west field a new building was under' construction. Pamela eyed it curiously. It was dug deep into the earth and had a queer, rounded roof, with vents in it. The doors were at either end and wide enough for two trucks to pass in and out. Aaron saw her baffled look and grinned. "It's a root cellar, Miss Pamela, a place for storing root vegetables." He grinned. "When it's finished, Grandie's going to give a party. Well lay smooth boards over the dirt floor and bring in autumn leaves and fall flowers. There'll be colored lanterns and a long table across one end for refreshments. There'll be square dances..." He broke off, giving her an intent look. "Ever been to a regular country shindig, Miss Pamela?"; Pamela was glad to confess, "What I don't know about farms would fill a five-foot bookshelf!" She realized suddenly that she had no business at Byde-A-Wyle farm. She was... Why, she was an imposter! She couldn't really be of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 help. She turned to ask Aaron to take her back to town, and found the truck lumbering off toward one of the fields. Aaron smiled and waved to Bumpty, who was already inside the white picket gate. Pamela ran after him in panic. She had to get away before Dale and his grandmother learned what a fraud she was. She caught Bumpty's hand. "Darling, we've got to go right back!" "But you've only just come," objected a hearty masculine voice, and Pamela looked up to find a tall, young man and a beautiful, blond young woman coming towards her. Behind, followed an old woman with silvery hair and smile-wrinkles about the keenest brown eyes into which Pamela had ever looked. She knew she was Grandie before she spoke. "We're tickled to have you," said Mrs. Saunders hospitably. She introduced her grandson and his fiancee, and added pleasantly: "Aaron said you were afraid you wouldn't be much help. But don't worry. If you're willing to learn, everything will be all right." She held out her hand to Bumpty and asked, "Would you like to help me feed the hens?" And to her grandson, she added, ""Take Pamela's bag upstairs, Dale, and bring the. Old crib down from the attic." PAMELA felt breathless and happy and excited as she followed Dale and Nina up the stairs and into the small bedroom with dormer windows framed in crisp, white curtains. While Dale went for the crib, Nina spoke disdainfully. "That crib's been in the family for generations. I tell Dale he's in GOLDEN HARVEST a rut. If he doesn't soon get away, he'll be here for generations, too." All of a sudden, Pamela knew that she had fallen in love with Byde-Awyle farm. Her smile was shy, yet truthful. "I should think it was a very nice place to be in a rut in," she said quietly. Nina frowned and wrinkled her nose. "That's because you've only just come. You'll find that its lonesome, and far away from town. I like bright, new, shiny things. When Dale and I are married, we're going to take a cute, modern apartment as near the business district. As possible." When she had gone, Pamela found herself thinking of Dale in a bright, shiny, new apartment, and somehow she felt sorry for him. Three days later she felt sorry for herself! She ached in muscles she hadn't known existed. She crawled into bed each night wondering if she would be able to move in the morning. But the old rooster who brought the sun shining over the tops of the eastern mountains called her to the fields. Dale taught her many things about farming. He talked of his dreams and ambitions for the farm, and she saw love for his land shining from his clear, brown eyes. She came to know, too, how it pained him to think of leaving it. But he was loyal to Nina. "She was brought up in the city. It wouldn't be fair to ask her to make a home here. She'd be so unhappy," he explained. Pamela wanted to remind him that he'd been brought up on a farm, that he would be miserable in town. But she pressed her lips tight- 665 ly together and told herself that it was none of her business. Why, just a few days ago she hadn't liked farms, either! Time went so fast that, suddenly, Pamela was surprised to find that her vacation was almost over. Great mounds of the root vegetables were ready for storing, and Grandie had set the date of her party for Saturday. Pamela and Bumpty would ride into town with one of the trucks on Monday morning. Pamela felt sad when she thought of leaving. She was going to miss Byde-A-Wyle, Aaron, Grandie, and Dale. She knew, with a queer little twist in her heart, that she was going to miss Dale more than anyone else. But she wouldn't let her thoughts dwell on that. Early Saturday morning, several neighbors invaded Grandie's bright kitchen to help with the party preparations. There were cakes to bake and pies to fill. There were heaping platters of sandwiches to be prepared, for the entire countryside had been invited. ALE and Bumpty turned the huge ice-cream freezer on the back porch, then packed it with salt and ice, and went gaily off to finish decorating the root cellar. Late in the afternoon, during a lull, Pamela brought her best white-embroidery frock into the cool kitchen to press, while Grandie filled platters with spicy cookies just out of the oven. Nina, dressed for the street, came into the room and eyed Pamela's pressing with scornful glances. "You don't really mean, Pam, to dance with those country bumpkins! It would bore me to tears. I've asked 666 Dale to take me to town for the opening of the Artistic Club. Pamela shot her a quick glance to be silent, but Grandie had heard; and her face turned a little white. Pamela protested in an indignant whisper. "You can't do that. Grandie's planning on Dale to help with the patty." Grandie's voice came gently. "Tf Dale would rathet. Go to town, Pamela, it's all right with me." But in spite of her brave words, Pamela caught the tremor in her voice. She watched Grandie take a covered plate of cookies into the pantry before she spoke. "Nina, you can't..." Nina interrupted sharply, "Now don't you butt in. Dale and I've just had a quarrel about it." She pulled on her gloves. "I've told him I'm going into town to have my hair and nails done. If he doesn't come in to take me to the club, I'll... I)... Well, Il break our engagement." Pamela stared at her unbelievingly. "But that's not fair. Dale loves you. He also loves Grandie. You can't make him choose between you." Nina laughed: jeeringly. "Can't I? Well, we'll see! It's about time he made up his mind about Grandie and this old farm." Pamela's lips were stiff. "Don't you know that he's already made it up, Nina? Dale loves this farm. He hopes you'll love it, too." "Love it," cried Nina, her lips curling, "I hate it! If marrying Dale means I've got to stay here, then I won't marry him." She looked at Pamela, her eyes flashing with anger. "Why are you standing up for him, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 and Grandie and the farm? Is it because you want to stay here with him?" Her laughter was cutting. "Oh, Pam, I know it, if you don't. You've fallen in love with him." Pamela's face was white. "No, no!" she protested, but even as she said it, she knew that Nina was right. Nina saw the truth in her clear eyes. Her own flickered angrily. "But," she said thinly, "I don't think it's going to do you any good. I think I know Dale. He'll come into town." She smiled confidently as she went through the door. Pamela stared after her, while the iron burned the ironing board cover. She didn't look up until Grandie set the iron back on the rack. 'Then Grandie put her arm about Pamela and held her close for a moment. "T couldn't help hearing," she said quietly. "We both love Dale, but there's nothing we can do. He's a man. He must make his own decisions." She drew Pamela's dress from the board and put it in her hands. "Remember, dear, we're having a patty. We musn't let anything spoil it. Not even our own feelings." "Not even our own feelings!"' Pamela wanted to cry out. She wanted to say: I can't laugh and dance and smile while my heart is aching. But she didn't speak. Grandie was depending on her. She went slowly upstairs. An hour later she saw Dale take the car and head for town. Her entire body felt frozen, and when she dressed, her fingers were stiff and awkward. BUMPTY, who had pleaded to be allowed to go to the party, jiggled excitedly between Grandie, GOLDEN HARVEST in her best gray silk dress, and Pamela, in her white one, as they entered the root cellar. It was a bower of colored lanterns, fall flowers, and autumn leaves, Bumpty's small chest swelled with pride. "Me and Dale did it. We fixed everything, Aaron helped." He skipped happily towards the loaded refreshment table and cried: "Aunt Pam, I'm going to eat all the cake and cookies and ice cream But for all his fine words, Pamela found him a Short time later, fast asleep, a huge dish of ice cream melting at his side. She smiled as she Picked him up and carried him to his room. He smiled sleepily as she undressed him, and said, "I'm glad we came to the country! Pamela wasn't glad. She almost wished she were back in the drug. Store with Bert and her crowd. If she hadn't come to Byde-A-Wyle her heart wouldn't have felt so big_ and empty in her breast. She was crossing the cornfield, when she heard Dale's voice. "Pam! Pamela!" Tt was a minute before she realized that he was coming towards parked his car, her side she tried was a little unsure. "Surely the Artistry Club isn't closed so early." She could see his face under the huge, silver harvest moon which had climbed into the sky. It was so stern it frightened her. "I didn't go to the club. I went 667 to ask Nina to come back to the Party." He paused and said harshly: "She isn't coming back, Pam. She isn't ever coming back to Byde-Awyle." Pam put a comforting hand on his arm, "Oh, Dale, I'm 50 sorry!" He turned so that she could see his eyes, They were free from anger and disappointment, and were clear and bright. "Don't be. I'm not. Not really." His voice was very low. "I think I've known for a long time that Nina and I could never be happy. It couldn't have been a real mar. Tiage, Pani." Suddenly, he put his hands on her slim shoulders and turned her so throat. "Tt's been a golden harvest, Pam," he said softly, "the first of many to come, When a man Matties, he needs a wife who loves the land as he does. Someday..." His voice Was so low she had to bend to hear it, "Someday, I'll tell you more about It." His eyes held a promise that stirred her heart. Then he smiled. "Now we must go back to the party. I want Grandie to know I'm back." Walking slowly beside him towards the light and laughter, Pamela smiled through the stars which had become lighted in the depths of her eyes, "If it hadn't been for Bumpty," she said whimsically, trying to hide the happiness in her heart, "I might never have come to Byde-A-Wyle at all." As though the thought were something he could not bear to imagine, he swept her into his arms and out into the middle of the dancers. Pioneer Stories and Incidents A STAMPEDE ON THE PLAINS President Amy Brown Lyman (This is the fourth in a series of true pioneer incidents to be published by The Relief Society Magazine in honor of the 1947 Utah Centennial celebration? ) RESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS often remarked that one of the most terrifying experiences of her life was witnessing a stampede of animals which occurred on the plains in the company of Bishop Newel K. Whitney, in the fall of 1848. It appears that animals as well as people, often, on those long journeys, suffered from fear and anxiety, as well as from thirst, hunger, and fatigue. As Sister Wells related the incident, which she always made vivid and dramatic, the trouble followed a long and weary day of travel. After camp had been made and supper and devotions were over, the company, foregoing the usual recreational activities, had retired early and were sleeping soundly. As was the custom of the pioneers, the wagons had been formed into a sort of circular or oval corral with the tongues pointing outside, and with a front wheel of each wagon locked in a rear wheel of the wagon ahead. Two openings or exits had been left opposite each other and a guard stationed at each of them. In this enclosure the animals were held for safety. Just before daybreak, there was a terrible commotion among the animals. For some unknown reason they had become disturbed and were soon unmanageable, despite all efforts to control them. They rushed Page 668 about, the oxen and cows bellowing and snorting as if they were mad? horses, oxen, steers, and cows all mixed up together. The noise and confusion and stamping of feet were so great that the very ground seemed to shake. The frightened animals jammed against one another and against the wagons, causing damage to both. Women and children were frightened into a panic, many screaming and crying, and some fainting. Finally, the animals broke through the openings and rushed out into the open prairie. Fortunately, several horses were caught and, upon these, men leaped and followed the herd. As the confusion subsided in camp and the immediate danger seemed to be over, new worries and anxieties developed. It was discovered that two children were missing, that one man had sustained a broken leg, and that another had been knocked down and lay unconscious a short distance away. Then there began to be anxiety and fear regarding the safety of the camp, left as it now was in the vast, lonely wilderness; and, added to this, there was great concern regarding the safety of the animals and the men who had followed them. It was feared, at first, that perhaps the two children, running away from the terrifying scene had PIONEER STORIES AND INCIDENTS encountered other dangers; but they were finally located, hidden deep down in a wagon box under a feather bed and other covers, where they had almost smothered. Like horses frightened at a fire, it was hard to induce them to come out to safety. It was not until late afternoon and many miles away, that the frightened and excited animals were finally brought under control, and returned 669 to camp. Several had been injured, and all of them were so nervous and exhausted that they had to be carefully cared for and comforted throughout the following night. None, however, was lost. The two injured men were properly cared for; the necessary repairs about the camp were made; and, on the second morning after this trying experience, the journey was once more resumed. NOTHING IS LOST Grace Zenor Pratt This eye for beauty, this rare thought expressed, This silver song to touch the hearts of men, Were not evolved by you; nor you, alone, Could have become proficient in an art Had not your fathers loved and cherished all these things. The gift came down by easy steps, and slow, From time's mysterious past? Until to you it is a pr That men now pause The shining words. But have you though precious charge, so rare to listen and to heed t of those who came before, Who labored and desired; who failed and tried again, With faith and pain and tears? They deemed their task unworthy, knowing not In you their rich achievement is fulfilled, The perfect plan By which God works; nothing is lost and Nothing thrown away. Then he who thinks that genius is but chance Is all mistaken; that little light which grows So slowly from desire and effort, too, May some day blaze into a flaming torch To light a world with beauty and with song. WOMEN OF All Nations" DREAMS OF THE NIGHT Dreams, sad dreams, why do you come From that far-off land, my childhood's home, Bringing the voices and forms of the past, I thought I'd forgotten at last, at last? Oh, may we hope that the future holds Something to gather the Scattered folds, To mend the links of the broker chain, And bring back heart to heart again. Welcomed by President Peterson and family.... NM. W. Snow. Such meetings are like a foretaste of futurity. They afford us a dim glimpse of that which may be when we reach "that other shore," where our loved ones are waiting. Principles of their religion, and Providing them with good books, and making home Pleasant and happy.... Sister M. W. Snow... Spoke of the great responsibility Testing upon the teachers, and exhorted them to be humble and prayerful, that they might be Woman's Sphere Romana W. Cannon THREE Utah poets all contributors to The Relief Society Magazine have recently won national or local prizes. Mrs. Blanche Kendall McKey, now a resident of Washington, D. C., received the prize offered by the National League of American Pen Women for her short drama, The Unuttered Heart. Mrs. McKey attended the authors' breakfast at the biennial convention of the League, held in Washington, D. C. At this function, Myrtle McKay of Dallas, Texas, read Mrs. McKey's prize work entirely from memory. The many brilliant women writers present regarded Mrs. McKey's poetical drama as a triumph. Mrs. Venita Nielsen of Logan, Utah, won first prize for poetry in the national contest sponsored by the Federated Women's Clubs of America. At the annual Writer's Roundup held in Price, Utah, Mrs. Margery S. Stewart won the poetry prize for her timely and significant contribution "The Great Hunter." KING GEORGE VI of England has presented "His Majesty's medal for service in the cause of freedom" to Mrs. Burton W. Musser of Salt Lake City, war-time head of Utah's "Bundles for Britain" organization, and to four Ogden women: Mrs. Frederich Berrill, Miss Margaret Corless, Mrs. J. H. Rosevear, and Mrs. S. Reed, for outstanding services rendered.  AMONG the students at the Utah State Agricultural College in Logan are two lovely young women from Iran, Mrs. Turan Ahai and her sister, Miss Vida Khazai. They are working in home economics, and expect to carry back to their native country modern American shortcuts in homemaking. T this time of the year, out thoughts are prone to turn back through the years to the pioneer men and women who endowed America with her noble heritage. Among them was Anne Hutchinson, a Rhode Island woman of genuine courage. She was one of the most intelligent women in the Colonies, and bold enough to stand for religious tolerance. For this crime she was condemned by a court of forty intolerant citizens to banishment. She and her numerous family fled to unsettled Western New York, where all of the family, except one child, Susanna, were massacred by the Indians. That Susanna survived is a fact for which Latter-day Saints may well be grateful, for the gifted Parley P. And Orson Pratt and their large and talented progeny are direct descendants from Anne Hutchinson. Miss DOROTHY SHAVER has been elected to head the vast business concern of Lord and Taylor, New York City's famous Fifth Avenue shop, a $30,000,000 retail corporation. Page 671  EDITORIAL

VOL. 33 OCTOBER 1946 NO. 10 She leaning of Autumn To everything there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven... A time to plant and a time to pluck up that which is planted (Eccles. 3:1-2). NEW seasons come as a fulfillment of natural law, the law that God has made in the universe, and there is a feeling of security, content-. Ment, and well-being in the return of autumn. It is fitting that we recognize with gratitude the blessings that come in this season. Our Heavenly Father "hath made everything beautiful in his time." The mosaic of autumn flowers, the stubble field, the bins of yellow wheat, the rich color of the leaf patterns all the evidences of autumn are beautiful and significant beyond their outward appearances. Harvest time and the gathering and the reaping mean that our labors have been rewarded once mote, that the ancient promise of the earth has again been fulfilled. The autumn season, then, should bring to us the realization that where abundance and plenty are found, that land is blessed. And yet, as the world is now organized, there is still not enough food for all who need it. Many must go hungry. For this reason there should be no waste of any kind. Those who have produced food must see that it is properly stored against a time of need; and that which is produced beyond the needs of each family, should be made available to others. Many people who wish to share their abundance find the problems Page 672 of distribution difficult, and they are at a loss to know how they can help the needy. Among the Latter-day Saints the problems of supply and distribution for the temporal welfare of the people are being met by the Church Welfare Program. All who participate fully in this Plan are forwarding the production and distribution of food and other necessities of life. Through this effective and far-reaching plan of the Lord, individuals may fulfill their desire to be of help to others. The feeling of satisfaction which comes from activity in the Welfare Program is of great value because it gives each participant a feeling of adequacy and strength, the result of being united with others in a great cause. Even as autumn is a time of reaping and gathering in of the fruits of the field, a time for being our "brother's keeper," it is also a time for the weighing of spiritual values. As the farmer counts his sacks of grain and measures the yield of his harvest, so should each individual appraise that which has been added to enrich and magnify his personality. Life is a process of reaping the results of past efforts. It is also a process of continual beginning again. Each day is, in itself, both seedtime and harvest. V. P. C. MRS. JOHN W. STAHR AND HER DISPLAY OF PAINTED WEEDS Painted Weeds from Fairyland Rosella F. Larkin President, Twelfth Ward Relief Society, Mount Ogden Stake, Utah GLIMPSE into fairyland was enjoyed by more than two hundred friends who recently called on Mrs. John W. Stahr at her home on Twenty-seventh Street, Ogden, Utah. The occasion was the fifth "painted weed' display of this unusual artist. A few years ago, while Mrs. Stahr was taking long rides out-of-doors to regain her health, she found beauty everywhere, in grass, wild flowers, and even in so-called weeds, and, visualizing the added effect which colors would lend to the beauty of their arrangement, this artistic lady proceeded to apply bright-colored paints to make their beauty carry over into the drab months and drab moments of life. Milkweed pods take on a new aspect when tinted blue and pink; hollyhocks stand tall in a gorgeous variety of brilliant, colored blossoms. Pastel-colored vases hold graceful fans of June grass. Other containers hold goldenrod, sagebrush, sunflowers, yarrow, thistle, cocklebur, pigweed, alfalfa, catnip weed, dill, arnica, verbena, wild mint, and greasewood, The flower display includes hydrangeas, black-eyed Susans and lilac seeds. Grains, such as wheat and oats, make attractive arrangements. In this picture, Mrs. Stahr stands amid her fairyland, holding in her hand a pink clay pot containing a bush holding a bird's nest made of brown cockleburs, and a bluebird molded in clay. This is her special "happiness" gift to her friends. She has found the great secret: Find your happiness in whatever you do, Wherever you are, with whatever you have. It is the only happiness you will ever know. Mrs. Stahr is an active Relief Society worker in the Twenty-fourth Ward, Mount Ogden Stake, Utah. Page 673 The Intruder Margery S. Stewart HE telephone Tang just as Carol was coming downstairs. With a wondering look at the hall clock, she went to answer it. It was Naida, more breathless than usual, "Carol, darling, I know it's practically the break of day, but Mabel Corless told me she saw you up at Doctor Thorpe's office and I just couldn't wait to find out What..." Carol chuckled. Have a baby." "A baby!" Naida's shriek made Carol hold the Phone away from her ear. "A baby! Good heavens! Why, you're thirty-six." "You make it sound ninety." "I didn't mean to, darling. But... But our children are grown up. You just can't start all over again. Have you told Danny and Joyce? Does Big Dan know?" Carol hesitated. "No.. Not yet." "Oh, I pity you when they do. They just 'die. Children these days are so unhappy about things like that. When Jean was having hers, Johnny and Doris just moped around, and do they moan about tending the baby, now it's here." Carol said swiftly, "But of course it will be different with us; Joyce loves babies, that is, she did." "Well, I hope she still does.. For your sake. Honestly, the things that happen to people." Carol cried out. "Oh, no. A wonderful, beautiful thing." "You always were a little odd about things like that, Carol. I never could Page 674 "I'm going to It's understand you... Well, I'll see YOR sa Carol replaced the Phone slowly. She found she was trembling. People seemed to be changing so much: It frightened her. She could remember the time when a baby, the first or the tenth, was the signal for rejoicing on every hand. She heard Joyce moving about upstairs and went hastily to the kitchen to stir up a batter for hot cakes. Perhaps she could tell her family at breakfast, Joyce burst into the kitchen, her school books under one arm, her sweater revealing tender curves, and her mouth petulant, "Mother, for pity's sake. You didn't take down that hem. Now I've got to wear this thing, and Celia wanted me to wear my blue." Carol's mouth quirked, noticing how the soft pink wool brought out the vivid coloring of Joyce's blue eyes and black hair. She smiled at her daughter. "I'm sorry, but I've not been feeling well. Went to the doctor and do you know what he said?" But Joyce was not listening. "Hot cakes? Ummm! Make mine about six and I'll study history while I'm eating." She opened her book and a paper fell out. Carol picked it up and smiled on the little penciled animals that frolicked over the page. "You really have a gift, Child." Joyce flicked the page with a scornful hand. "They're corny, I used to think I could be an artist, THE INTRUDER | but Celia pointed out just how poor I am." She lifted her head and annoyance drew down the comers of her mouth. "Here comes Danny Junior. I wish he'd get the grease out from under his nails and leave those horrible engines of his alone." Danny galloped into the kitchen. "Oh, is that so, Joyce? Well, 'm not going to leave engines alone just because you want me to look pretty for your girl friends. Those nauseating gleeps you call girl friends.. - - I'm going to be an inventor. Ummm, hot cakes! Gimme about twelve." CAROL brought the hot cakes and the milk. She curled her hands in her apron and, suddenly, her heart was pounding thunderously, "Do you like babies?" That wasn't what she had meant to say at all. "Little new ones," she added hastily. "Babies?" Joyce reached for the syrup. "Good grief, no! That new neighbor wanted me to tend hers, and did I give her to understand I was not interested! Celia says babies are messy little things." She waved her spoon largely, "None for me, ever." "Toyce!" Carol stared unbelievingly. "Suppose I'd felt that way before you were born?" Joyce shrugged. "You've always peen mad about babies. I'm not." "Babies?" echoed Danny. De considered. "I used to want a baby in the family when I was a kid, before I got to be sixteen and had some sense. But, gosh, I never even look at them now. Nope. Can't be bothered. Say, Mom, do you suppose you could persuade Dad to buy me that jalopy of Paul's? I could make twenty bucks, fixing it up." "Py ask him," said Carol. She protectiveness shook her. 675 went back to the range. She poured more batter onto the skillet. She was surprised at the shaking of her hands because, inside, she was SO still and quiet. She had been wrong, so terribly wrong, all the years she had felt, smugly, that she was being a wonderful mother. She looked at her children as a stranger might look at them, at Joyce, beautiful and selfish, at Danny, sixteen and strong and intelligent and beginning to be ruthless. I have given them a great deal, she thought, and missed the important things. Everything for the welfare of their minds and their bodies, and nothing to make their hearts beautiful or their souls grow. Then, at the thought of the baby, she decided, I'm being given a new chance with this baby. A fierce Her home should be a fortress against the fallacies, and the vicious creeds and the hatreds and ignorance of the world. She would make it so and keep it that way. Somehow, someway, she would find the way to make het family greet this new member with the proper love and tenderness. She watched Joyce apply a thick layer of lipstick, but this time she did not remonstrate, instead, she laid her hand tenderly on her daughter's cheek. Joyce smiled. "Hi, Mom! Well, I'm off. Yipes, listen to Dad on the state of the bathroom!" Danny flushed guiltily and rose. "] forgot again. Plead my case, Mom. I gotta go." Carol waited for Dan and thought, I'm glad we'll be alone. I'll tell him and it will be like it used to be, warmth and friendliness and love. Dan stormed down the stairs. "If that boy doesn't learn to wipe up 676 the bathroom floor!" He gave Carol a quick peck. "Feeling better, Pet? That's fine. I'm hoping you'll be in top form before the Wentworths get here. I'm counting on one of your good dinners to swing the account my way." Carol flipped the hot cake over. "Suppose I can't entertain them, Dan?" Dan picked up his paper. "Don't make jokes, my dear. With the way prices have gone up we're going to need a lot more money. I want a new car... And some tips... I'd like to buy you a new coat.... I was wondering about a private school for Joyce. What do you think?" "I was thinking about babies," Carol said softly, "little warm babies, in soft pink sweaters." "Babies!" Dan snorted, "Babies? We won't have to think about them for years. Joyce won't be married for years, if 1 have anything to say about it." Carol sat on the stool by the sink. She watched him read his paper, finish his breakfast, and depart. She went slowly to gather up the breakfast dishes. We touch each other every day, Dan and I, our hands touch, and our lips, and sometimes we look at each other when we speak, but what is more barren than a touch without knowledge, and more blind than eyes accustomed to the thing they see? SHE could no longer endure the quiet house. She worked swiftly until just before noon, then she changed and went downtown. She walked slowly up Main Street, looking in the shop windows, struggling to cast off her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 doubts and depression. A tall girl in a yellow jacket, obviously pregnant, looked at the display of slim, spring dresses. Carol smiled at her, she who was inordinately shy, and found herself saying, "But it won't be very long.... You'll be even prettier." The girl laughed. "I don't mind. I'm glad... Glad... You see they told me once that I couldn't have a baby. Think of going through life without a baby of your own. I was the oldest... It was a thrill, each new small brother or sister." Something of the girl's joy went with Carol up the street. She walked past the shopping district, and up the little hill that led from Temple Square. She rested for a moment against an old stone wall. She looked over the valley, at the homes, at the long business street, at the gray walls of the temple, and Angel Moroni's glinting gold in the afternoon sun. Words from a psalm slipped like jewels on a chain, "His foundation is in the holy mountains. The Lord loveth the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob.... Glorious things are spoken of thee, O city of God....". With quickening breath Carol threaded the other words, "... And of Zion it shall be said, This and that man was born in her: and the highest himself shall establish her. The Lord shall count, when he writeth up the people, that this man was born there. Selah."... That this man was born there...." Carol put her hand upon her breast. She was very still, washed in a nameless, burning beauty. We forget, she thought, the important things, how valuable to God are the children born here. How greatly they will be needed in the years to come. She reached out for the THE INTRUDER moment, to keep its strength and its beauty, but already it was like a wind-torn cloud, unrolling, dispelling, and gone. She walked slowly back to town. She had a sandwich in a department store tea room. Afterwards she took the elevator up to the infants' wear. She priced the diminutive shirts, the nightgowns. There was a baby shawl of blue yarn, beautifully woven, incredibly soft. She fingered it gently, seeing her baby wrapped in its lovely folds. "I'll take it," she said to the clerk. She held the package close against her, walking down the aisle of the store. Suddenly, she stood still. If a shawl could do so much for her, make the baby seem so near. "Why, of course," she said aloud, and went swiftly to the yard goods' counter. She bought a square of pink silk, shimmering and beautiful. She tucked it carefully with the other package and went smiling towards the bus corner. Danny was in the garage. She could hear him hammering lustily on a piece of steel. He looked up as her shadow fell on him. He grinned. "I'm making an all-cooling system for the house. You'll really like it, it won't be nearly so noisy as last summer." Carol repressed a shudder. "It sounds wonderful. By the way, Danny, do you think you could make a cradle?" "A cradle?" "You see, this woman is going to have a baby and she has her heart set on an old-fashioned cradle. The stores don't carry them, and I happened to think of you. I'm just sure you could make her one." with brown, gentle hands. 677 Danny rubbed his nose with an oil-smeared hand. "Sure, I could. Gosh, never saw a cradle except in pictures. But I could do it." He lifted his head hopefully. "Say, would she want a self-rocker? I think I could get a motor?" Carol repressed her horrified 'outcry. "She might," she managed to say. He nodded loftily. "Okay. Ill do it." She went hastily away before the desire to hug him should disgrace her forever. Joyce came home at five, as Carol was just beginning dinner. Carol, straining her ears, heard the quick footsteps halt beside the dining room table. "Oh, yummy. Mother?" "Yes, dear," Carol managed to walk casually into the dining room. "Did you call me?" Joyce was caressing the pink silk "How perfectly gorgeous! Mine?" "No... It's for a woman who's going to have a baby. She wants to make a quilt." Carol held the shimmering silk up against the light. "She was wondering if you would make the design for it.... I showed her some of your little animals one day." "You mean,' breathed Joyce, "that she wants me to make the design for her?" Caro] nodded. "I have some silk scraps we can use for applique. I brought home some magazines with babies on the covers. They might help you. When you make things for babies you have to get that cuddly feel in your fingers." Joyce gathered up her books. "That new neighbor has some adorable things for her baby. Ill go 678 tend him and then I can really look at them." Carol went back to the kitchen. She sat for a brief moment on the stool by the sink. "I should know by now," she thought, "that most miracles happen as casually as this." Naida called one morning. "Have you told them yet?" "Not yet," Carol answered. Isn't the time." "Well, you'd better tell them before the town does." Carol laughed. "But the town doesn't know. I spend my days sewing a fine seam." She did not add, with Joyce. Because this was too new, too precious to be shared, those moments when Joyce sat beside her and threaded her needle in the pattern she had drawn on the silk. It was an appealing design she had made of fat little bears in a rainstorm. "CAROL had known few moments as lovely as the afternoon when Joyce said suddenly, "''m beginning to think Celia's a dope about some things. I think babies are sweet." She smiled at her mother. "Of course, all those pictures you have around of babies, would make an ogre love them." Danny had made no further mention of the cradle, but sometimes he deigned to play with the neighbor's baby whom Carol "borrowed." But one afternoon he brought a sheaf of drawings to the dining room. "Take a look, Mom, and see if they're what you want?" Carol sat down and thumbed through them. She exclaimed over one. "Isn't this adorable; might have come over on the Mayflower? That's my choice." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 Danny's face grew bright. "Do you really like it? I can get some maple for that. It would look swell in maple." He lifted his head as his father strode in. "Dan," Carol cried, "come and see what your son has drawn." But Dan, bursting with excitement, had no time for sketches. "Just a moment until I tell you what I brought home. Where's Joyce? I want everybody here, Joyce!" he shouted, "Oh, Joyce!" She came running. "What goes, Dad?" She gave him a hug. He grinned at her and pulled a handful of folders from his pocket. He handed them to Carol in a sweeping gesture. "A trip!" he roared. "A trip for the whole family! How would you like to drive up to the Northwest, down the coast to Mexico, over. To New Orleans, Washington, D. C., New York, and then drive back in a brand-spang new car?" They fell on him with shouts of joy. As from a long way off, Carol listened to their excited questions and their shrieks of delight. "And I can really buy some clothes in New York?" Joyce demanded. "Oh, won't Celia's eyes simply pop. Oh, Daddy, I'm just speechless." Dan said, "It's your mother who's speechless." He turned to her. There was a question and disappointment in his eyes. "What is it, Carol?" Carol looked at the three she loved more than anyone else in the world, at their flushed, shining faces, their enraptured eyes. In all her careful planning there had been no thought of this. How futile her efforts seemed now the baby pictures she had left here and there for the family to stumble over, the neighbor's baby she had "borrowed," the quilt she and Joyce were making together, the cradle Danny had designed. She straightened her shoulders. She had built as well as she, knew. She stated clearly, "I can't go on the trip. I'm going to have a baby."
There was a stunned silence.
"A baby?" Danny's voice skidded into high C. "A baby? You mean a real one?"
"A baby?" whispered Joyce. "A baby in our house. I'm making the quilt for our own baby. Oh, Mothler!"
Carol looked at her daughter and saw how very young she was, so young that awe still lived in her.
Her daughter smiled at her crookedly. "You should have told me . . . I would have helped more."
"Gosh," said Danny. He looked wildly around him. "Gosh, lemme set the table."
Dan said very softly, "That's a good idea, Son." He kept his head
bent, picking up the travel folders. Carol watched him, while pain bit in her. He looked so young, like a small boy obediently putting away his toys. She touched him lightly. "The three of you can go. There's not a reason in the world for you to stay. The doctor says I'm doing famously."
It was then Carol knew why he had delayed speaking so long. His voice was rough with tears. "Do you think I'd take a chance of anything happening to you . . . or my child?" He took her in his arms and hid his face against her hair for a long moment. "It's the strangest thing," he said at last. "but ever since I stumbled on a couple of magazines with baby pictures all over them I've been thinking about babies . . . I never dared to believe . . ."
Carol controlled the chuckle before it reached her lips. Miracles happen so casually, the constant miracles that only women know. She lifted her face. "Thanks," she said with her heart, "thanks for everything."
RAFFLING AND GAMBLING
Is it proper to raffle property . . .? No; raffling is a game of chance, and hence leads to gambling; for that reason, if for no other, it should not be encouraged . . . President Young declared raffling to be a modified name of gambling; and that "as Latter-day Saints we cannot afford to sacrifice moral principles to financial gain," and advised the sisters through the Woman's Exponent not to raffle. President Lorenzo Snow reinforced and approved of these sentiments; and I have often expressed my unqualified disapproval of raffling; . . . With all these objections, should it not be clear to anyone that raffling horses, quilts, bicycles and other property is not sanctioned by the moral law nor approved by the general Church authorities? . . . if you do not believe in it, you should refuse to patronize it, so helping the cause.
President Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 407-408  Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles - CHAPTER 7 Synopsis: Enid Drage, young, attractive wife of Tom Drage, finds herself a widow following his death in a factory accident. She finishes normal school and teaches in the small town, renting from Miss Nobbit. Rearing her daughter, Sharon, presents problems. She has been to a party with the wealthy young people of the town, and complains that she will: never be able to entertain them in their own two-room apartment. ENID had deliberately delayed coming home from school on several days when Mr. Fletcher, the portly and distinguished looking banker, had suggested that he might meet her on Main Street after school. That was his alternative when she had refused to go with him riding or to the movies. At times, when she had started home and had seen him in the distance standing in the bank doorway, she had changed her course, pretending _to herself or whoever might be with her that she needed to go to the library. The day after Sharon's first party, Enid closed her desk up early, powdered her nose carefully, put lipstick on sparingly to bring out her own good color, and loosened her hair somewhat about her face. Then she started down Main Street. She wanted to see Mr. Fletcher today She wanted him to see her, to ask her to go out with him. Her answer would not be "No" today. And she was not disappointed. He was standing in the doorway of the bank. She walked slowly, pretending not to notice him, yet giving him time to speak. Page 680 He said, "We Ill, I haven't seen you in a long time. School teaching must be keeping you pretty busy." She lifted her eyes to his in simulated surprise and pleasure, "Oh, how do you do?" she greeted him, smiling, stopping until he came over to her. "It's so nice seeing you." He literally beamed beneath her pleasantry. He fingered his solid gold watch fob, as he suggested, "Wouldn't you like to have an ice cream soda?" "I believe I would," she agreed, still smiling. "Wait just one moment until I get my hat, we'll walk over to the drugstore." She waited, remembering the gay, casual way in which Tom used to go without a hat, even in the coldest weather, the way his dark hair used to lift in the wind. But she must not remember Tom now. That was in the past. She would put it behind her once and for all. Yes, she would forget... She would go forward, make a good life for Sharon, the kind of life the girl wanted, with a house where she could entertain... Maybe her own car later on. All the things the other girls had. There was not another house in town to compare with the Fletcher three-story brick one in the south part of town, with its beautifully landscaped grounds and weeping willow trees that almost concealed the white-pillared porch. She was more animated than ever when Mr. Fletcher joined her; and FAITH IS A HERITAGE they walked laughingly to the comer drugstore. When they parted, he asked her to the military ball the next night, and she accepted with outward pleasure and enthusiasm. "You're a lovely thing," he assured her, holding his hat properly in his hand, bending slightly from the waist. "Thank you," she started playing the game, going through the motions, forcing her lips into the smile of gentleness and sweetness that he seemed to admire so much. By the time he called for her the next night, she was actually in a state of excitement, due partly to Sharon's happiness and Miss Nobbit's sage approval. Her parting words, "You could do much worse," kept going through Enid's mind. And, leaving out the question of love, she couldn't do any better, she decided. She even enjoyed the dance more than she had dreamed she could, for she had forgotten how good it was to move to soft music in rhythm and motion, to see the happy couples about her, all suddenly more than friendly. Mr. Fletcher noticed the glow on her face, told her, "You've needed to go out more for a long time. You are too young to give up life and fun. I felt the same when my wife died. But life has to go on. I hope now that you've made the break we'll see more of you. I hope..." H? words stopped on a wistful note as he looked into her eyes. She felt herself flush, and she changed the subject, quickly, gaily. It was too soon to let anything be said. However, the orchestra was playing a sentimental waltz, and she 681 did not feel any disapproval as his arm tightened just a little about her waist. True, he was twenty years older than she, he was bald and heavy. But 'on the other side of the ledger there were many things: his standing in the community, his graciousness, and, of course, his imposing and beautiful home. She didn't quite know what she would do with such a house if it ever should happen that he asked her to marry him. But there was time enough to think of that later. He might never ask her. Yet, her woman's intuition and his eyes told her differently. It seemed to Enid that even the children at school treated her with a new respect and courtesy, for news traveled fast in the town. Or perhaps it was only her imagination, she decided, only the sense she felt within herself of being more than just a hireling, of knowing she could be more than that, much more. But she noted a new glow on Sharon's face as though she knew a wonderful secret. Enid had been so engrossed in her own thoughts that she had not particularly noticed that Miss Nobbit was looking more pale, and that she was quite a bit weaker, until one morning when she went to the door, as usual, with her breakfast. Enid found that Miss Nobbit was not up in her chair, but was still lying in her bed. "I'm just tired this morning. I'll be as right as rain after I eat a bite. You run along to school." "Ill run down at noon to see how you feel," Enid assured her. "You rest comfortably. Ill put your pills here where you can reach them." "You needn't come at noon, Child, 682 I tell you I feel perfectly all right. Can't a body take an hour's extra test without all this commotion?" "But what if I want to come home at noon? I suppose a body might have a right to do that." The older woman did not answer with her usual, spritely comeback. She ate listlessly and in silence. Enid hated to leave her, and, when she did leave, she called at the home of the next-door neighbor and asked her to look in occasionally during the day. The hours at school seemed to go slowly. When the day was finally done, and Enid was putting away her papers, she looked up to see a tall, rather gangling, shy-looking young man standing by the door. For a moment, her heart seemed to turn a somersault. The blood left her face and she was glad she was sitting down, as she felt faint. When she looked at the man closer, she wondered why she should have thought his resemblance to Tom so pronounced. Still, there was some intangible likeness the wistfulness in his eyes, his one-sided smile but, outside of that, there was no resemblance except his height. It was her mind doing tricks. "Hello," she said pleasantly, and he came in, nodding, repeating, "Hello." After a moment of looking at her, he asked, "Are you Mrs. Drage?" "Yes. I am. Was there something?" "I'm Billy Richards' father. He's having quite a hard time with his English. I thought perhaps you could tell me what I could do to help him at home. His mother's dead, you know." "Oh, I'm sorry," she told him, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 kindly, "I didn't know. He's such a nice child..." She proceeded to tell him whatever she thought might be of help. When she was through, he lingered as though loath to leave. "Maybe Ill see you again sometime?" he said, and his words were a question. "I hope so," she assured him. And she meant it. She wanted to see him again. He was as young as she, and there was naturalness and simplicity in his manner and his face. She recognized them because she was a natural and simple person herself. She knew, suddenly, that she had never really wanted anything in life that was ornate or beyond her means. She wanted a good, simple life, a life rich in the true joys, the quiet, inner joys that neither money nor fame can buy. And, as she watched Mr. Richards go, she felt she could never marry Mr. Fletcher. She would manage somehow. To give Sharon a home, although she might never be able to afford anything but a humble one. She picked up her bag, put on her hat, and stared for just a moment out of the window, lost in thought. Bleakness was in the air, a last crisp leaf scurried across the ground as though looking for a place to hide from the relentless wind. She was not alarmed when she saw Sharon running up the walk to the building. Yet, when she saw Sharon's face as she entered the room, her own loneliness disappeared and she was all alertness and concern. "Sharon, darling... What?" The girl cried, "Hurry, Mother, hurry! Miss Nobbit... She's dying... (To be continued) Sallie-Start-Something Alice Whitson Norton 66 OW, Sallie," warned Mother her Tidwell, when Sallie started out to meet the youngsters living in the new location to which they had just moved, "remember your promise." "Yes, Mother," answered the girl, "T will remember." "I wonder," mused the mother, as her daughter went tripping down the path leading to the gate, "if she will." Back in the old community where Sallie had lived, she had made a reputation for herself of starting things and never finishing them, until some of the girls in the neighborhood had given her the name of Sallie-Start Something, and the name had stayed. Even at that, nobody ever made a complaint about Sallie, for she was one of those pleasant creatures whom people willingly serve, and when she started anything (she was generally back of any new movement undertaken in the community), some of the other girls would be ready to carry the idea through. But before Sallie left the old community, she had had a heart-to-heart talk with her mother, and they had agreed that Sallie was going to leave the old name and reputation behind when they moved away. So, before Sallie began taking an active interest in her new neighbors, Mother Tidwell felt reasonably sure that she would abide by her promise; but, when Sallie began running out to meet the girls, Mother Tidwell began to feel uneasy. Then, one afternoon, in came Sallie, her face flushed and her eyes sparkling. "Mother," she exclaimed, "what do you think this community of girls has no reading center!" For a moment Mrs. Tidwell stood regarding her daughter with a look of mingled surprise and _ pleasure. Sallie had started something, she knew, without so much as questioning her. "When does the first meeting take place, Sallie?" the mother asked pleasantly. "Why, Mother," exclaimed the girl in a tone of amazement, "how did you know we were going to organize a reading society?" "That is something I cannot answer," laughed the mother, "but its a fact, isnt it?" "Yes'm," answered Sallie, "I?I ?well, when I found out the state of things I just couldn't resist inviting the girls over to our house for an hour of reading. You see," went on Sallie, enthusiastically, "these girls need to start their mental powers to work, and by forming a good reading club, I figured that I would be helping them without their knowing it." "Quite true, my dear," replied the mother, "but, remember, you haven't the old crowd back of you now to finish what you start, and, unless you have made up your mind to stick to the finish, I Page 683 684 most earnestly beseech you to call it off right now. I don't want you to make the same sort of reputation here as you left in the old town. Sallie-Start-Something isn't a very high-sounding name for a girl in her teens." "Sallie-Start-Something," repeated the girl slowly. Then, suddenly, her face lighted up with inspiration. "Why, Mother," she said happily, "that phrase wouldn't be such a bad trade-mark, provided the something started was a worthy venture and continued to live, would it?" "No," admitted the mother with a fearful heart, "if the something started was started in good faith and carried out, it could mean a lot to a new neighborhood, but think it over, my dear, and think seriously before you start anything." "Yes'm," answered Sallie, as she started for the door leading to her own small room above, "Ill think it over seriously." Some two hours later Sallie came down, dressed in her best red wool dress and matching beret. "You've been thinking, Sallie," asked the mother, "of what we were talking about?" "I have," replied the girl, "and I've made up my mind that it's not my ideas, but my methods that are bad." "Then you will give up the reading society?" questioned the mother. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 "Give up something I've just started?" exclaimed Sallie, "No, indeed, Mother. Here's where Sallie Start-Something begins to change her policies. From now on, Sallie Start-Something will start more things than she has ever started be fore, and back up her starting by sticking to them." So it happened that Sallie-Start Something from the old town, be came Sallie-Stick-To-It in the new, and, under her capable directorship, not only a reading society, but various other organizations were started and held together for the good of the community. And even to this day, though Sallie is no longer a teen-age girl, the community de pends on her to start something when it begins to lag in interesting events. And no longer does the mother worry about her daughter's reputation ? Sallie-Start-Something-and-Stick-To-It means quite a different thing from the Sallie-Start-Something of the old town. The beloved Sallie will tell you herself, that while the world is full of the former type of young women, the Sallie-Start-Something kind who leaves the venture in somebody else's hands to finish, there are also a few of the Sallie-Start-Somcthing-and-Stick-To It kind, and those, after all, are the ones who keep the old world running smoothly.  FAT SALVAGE CAMPAIGN The need for saving fats and oils is still acute. Housewives are urged to bring salvaged fats and oils to meat markets, retail grocery stores, and packing plants. The materials thus salvaged can be used for making soap, nylons, shoes, paints, printing ink, fabrics, cellophane, electrical appliances, linoleum, and hundreds of other products. The American Fat Salvage Committee gives this timely advice: "American women can help themselves get more soap, and help the famine areas of the world get more food fats and oils simply by conserving all fats and oils and turning every drop of used cooking fat over to the meat dealer for four cents a pound." FOR NOTES FROM THE FIELD" Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer
REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE SUBMITTAL OF MATERIAL FOR "NOTES FROM THE FIELD"
THIS section of the Magazine is reserved for narrative reports and pictures of Relief Society activities in the stakes and missions. Its purpose is threefold: (1) to provide a medium for the exchange of ideas and methods for conducting Relief Society work which have proved successful in some organizations and which may be helpful and stimulating to others; (2) to recognize outstanding or unique accomplishments of Relief Society organizations; (3) to note the progress of Relief Society work in various parts of the world. It is recognized that personal accounts of individuals who have long served Relief Society, or who have otherwise distinguished themselves, are always of great interest, but the space available for "Notes From the Field" is so limited in relation to the number of stakes and missions that it must be reserved for reports on the work of the organization rather than that of individuals.
Wards and branches desiring to submit reports for publication in "Notes From the Field" are requested to send them through the stake or mission presidents. It often happens that one or two wards or branches in a stake or mission will send reports on special activities which are being conducted on a stake-wide or mission-wide basis, and, in such instances, it would be to the advantage of the stake or mission to have the report cover the entire activity in the same issue of the Magazine, with all participating wards or branches represented.
Where narrative reports are submitted, with or without accompanying photographs, the name of the stake and ward, or mission and branch, should be given, together with the title of the activity reported, the date, and other pertinent data, including the name, address, and position of the person making the report.
Pictures which are submitted for publication can be used only if they are clear and distinct and will make good cuts for reproduction. Black and white glossy prints reproduce most satisfactorily. Pictures should have the following information written clearly on the back:
Name of stake and ward, or mission and branch Title of picture, stating the activity represented or the purpose of meeting of the group Date picture was taken Name, address, and position in Relief Society of person submitting the picture
Identification of persons in the picture should be made on the reverse side. Names should be given from left to right, written clearly, and spelled correctly. The given names of the women should be used, not their husbands' names (for instance, Sarah D. Erickson, not Mrs. James Erickson).
The positions of the executive officers: president, counselors, and secretary-treasurer should always be listed with their names.
If the photograph has reference to some particular activity, such as sewing, visiting teaching, etc., the name of the leader and her position should also be listed.
Material submitted for "Notes From the Field" should be addressed to the General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah.
686 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 NEBO STAKE (UTAH), PAYSON SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS AND PARTNERS AT A BANQUET January 31, 1946 Photograph submitted by Nadine Brown, Relief Society President of Payson Second Ward when this photograph was taken, now president of Nebo Stake Relief Society. EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, NORTH CAROLINA WEST DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY PARTY Leone W. Doxey, East Central States Mission Relief Society President, reports a delightful banquet celebrating the 104th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. 'The banquet was held in the ballroom of the O'Henry Hotel in Greensboro, North Carolina, March 16th, 1946. More than one hundred fifty men and women attended. At one end of the room on a raised platform was placed a large birthday cake. Each of the twelve presidents of the Relief Societies in the district was invited NOTES FROM THE FIELD 687 to light one of the candles on the cake. An effective pageant was presented representing the lives of the General Presidents of Relief Society. Sister Olive W. Webb was in charge of the banquet and Sister Winifred B. Roberts conducted the program. President and Sister Graham H. Doxey of the East Central States Mission and the district presidency and their wives were guests. The North Carolina West District Relief Society officers are: Vena W. Draughon, President; Ruth S. Gulledge, First Counselor; Olive W. Webb, Second Counselor; Winifred B. Roberts, Secretary-Treasurer. EMIGRATION STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), UNIVERSITY WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SEWING GROUP Front row, seated, left to right: Marilyn Stobbe; Vadna Matson, Second Counselor; Augusta Stobbe, President; Shirley Ann Stobbe; Etta Cowles; Fern Robison, First Counselor; Mary Lou Stobbe. Back row, standing, left to right: Alice Malin; Elizabeth Rickenbach; Lillie Sorenson; Grace Woodbury; Thelma Clark; Henrietta Thurman; Rachel Taylor; La Ree Snow; Clair Sprunt. From Emigration Stake, where Lillie C. Adams is president of the Relief Society, a report of the sewing activities in the University Ward has been received through First Counselor Fern Robison: "During the past winter, 1945-46 the women of the University Ward Relief Society pledged themselves to support a most helpful and thrifty project, that of making their own clothing. Good materials were scarce, but there were many members of the Relief Society group who had at their disposal good materials in pre-war garments, and, with careful planning and cutting, these were fashioned into stylish, good-looking clothes. The president, Sister Augusta Stobbe, completed two dresses and a suit for herself, plus suits for each of her three daughters. The work director, Sister Vadna Matson, assisted each member, in turn, as difficulties arose. By March 17th, the group wardrobe was completed. A fashion show was staged during the evening of March 17th while the University Ward members were being entertained at a banquet in commemoration of the 104th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. In the above photograph each of the women is wearing the dress, suit, or hat which she made for herself." Photograph submitted by Fern L. Robison. 688. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), POCATELLO FIRST AND THIRD WARD BAZAARS Emily S. Romish, President, West Pocatello Stake Relief Socicty, reports two very successful bazaars. At the First Ward bazaar various kinds of children's and infants' clothing were displayed, together with a large number of sheets, pillowcases, rag rugs, aprons, crocheted doilies, pinafores, pajamas, quilts, dolls, pincushions, and many other useful and beautiful articles. The Third Ward bazaar was composed of eight different booths, each of which included well-made and useful articles of great variety. Photographs of three of the eight booths are shown on the opposite page. WEST POCATELLO STAKE, FIRST WARD BAZAAR Upper picture, handwork section, left to right: Martha Ross; Grace Richards and Karen Jensen, counselors; Sarah Jensen, work director; Allice Jensen, president; Myrtle Stoddard; Olive Larsen; Thora Brown, secretary-treasurer,; Mamie Bird. Lower picture, cooked food section, left to right: Lillian Eggleston; Lael Mausey; Ada Goodersham. NOTES FROM THE FIELD  WEST POCATELLO STAKE, THIRD WARD BAZAAR Top: left to right: Lucy Wardle, sewing chairman, in charge of pillowcase booth: Evelyn Thornock, in charge of tea towels; Sylvia Seelas, in charge of baby booth. Middle: left to right: Stella Price, President Pocatello Third Ward; Marie Hiltabrand, in charge of quilts; Maude Selover and Elva Neeley in charge of miscellaneous booth. Lower: Left to right: Louise Richardson and Etta Walker in charge of the cake booth; Verda Reid, Secretary; Violet Hart, First Counselor; Veta Leyland, Second Counselor, in charge of bazaar. 690 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), BASIN BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Front row, left to right: Darlene Hansen, organist; Lottie Wehr, First Counselor; Verla L. Smith, President; Lova Kinghorn, Second Counselor; Ona Scott. Back row, left to right: Ethel Parkins; Louise Tuttle, Magazine agent; Helen Parks; Plet Avery; Clara Smith; Mae Scott, Secretary-Treasurer. Grace E. Allphin, Big Horn Stake Relief Society President, reports that the Basin Ward has been outstanding in all phases of Relief Society work. Photograph submitted by Grace E. Allphin CALIFORNIA MISSION, VENTURA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Seated, left to right: Mary Cotterel; Janet Watt; Julia Johnson. Standing, left to nght: Lillian Johnson; Afton Hodgson; Lavera Curtis; Suzanna Blair; Mae Badger, Frances L. Broadbent, Secretary-Treasurer; Thyra Hale, Second NOTES FROM THE FIELD 691 ? COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH ), MURRAY THIRD WARD VISITING TEACHERS First row, seated, left to tight: Elsie Wiseman; Belle Breakfield: Kate Peterson; Marie Evans; Mary Nelson; Ella French; Arick Kezerian; Josephine Miller; Louise Barthell; Margaret Chivrell; Marguerite Allington; Lottie Evans, First Counselor. Second Tow, standing, left to right: Afton Wallace; Billie Parker; Mary Sabine: Effie White; Clara Knight; Paula Stephan; Duella Hamblin; Kate Morris; Effie Miller; Mary Parker; Bernice Drown; Amber Palmer; Margaret Dawes; Lorene Tranter; Bertha of approximately twelve families each. Five districts comprise a region, presided over by a supervisor. The record achieved has been the result of faithful check-up work by the supervisors, who have acted, also, as extra teachers within their regions, Williams; Myrtle Themos; Mildred Williams; Elma Eskelson. Sister Ella R. Croxford is President of Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, Photograph submitted by Dora W. McMillan, President, Murray Third Ward Relief Society. 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH) MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES These women have been instrumental in bringing the Magazine subscriptions for Cottonwood Stake from 26 per cent in 1942 to nearly 100 per cent in 1945. Photograph submitted by Sister Ella R. Croxford, President Cottonwood Stake Relief Society.  NEW YORK STAKE, QUEENS WARD, (NEW YORK) RELIEF SOCIETY CONCERT Left to right: La Var Jenson of Ephraim, Utah, piano soloist and accompanist; Earlene Christensen, former Brigham Young University student, pianist; Emily Wright, former student University of Utah, reader; Olive Harris, formerly of Richfield, Utah, soprano; Ruth Miller, pianist. Sister Vera H. Hales, President of Queens Ward Relief Society, in describing this unusually fine concert, reports that a letter of invitation was sent to all the ward Relief Society members and friends. The program of classical music was most ably presented before a large audience, April 26, 1946. Grace C. Woolley is president of New York Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Vera H. Hales NOTES FROM THE FIELD 693 SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), CLARKSTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS For three consecutive years the visiting teachers of the Clarkston Ward have achieved 100 per cent in their activities. Anne M. Farr is president of Smithfield Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Sister Archulious B. Archibald, ward Relief Society President. INGLEWOOD STAKE (CALIFORNIA), CENTINELA WARD PAGEANT, "THE GATE BEAUTIFUL" From Inglewood Stake, where Josephine E. B. Prestwich is president of the Relief Society, a report of the pageant, "The Gate Beautiful," has been received from Josephine Bullock, President of Centinela Ward: 694 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 "The pageant was presented March 19, 1946, in commemoration of the organization of the Relief Society. Two outstanding features of the pageant were the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith given 104 years ago to the sisters of the Relief Society; and the reading. By President Josephine Bullock. Of the counsel of President George Albert Smith written for the sisters of the Relief Society today. The program was closed by the congregation singing 'Praise to the Man." After the benediction, refreshments were served." Photograph submitted by Josephine Bullock SOUTH OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), EIGHTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY EASTER PAGEANT Standing, left to right: Beatrice Loftgreen; Louise Swan; Edna Buss; Nellie Van der Zee; Delecta Davis; Elizabeth Lochhead; Edith Quigley; Hilda Halverson; Walter Buss; Mabel Howey; Hellen Hansen; Norma Thomas; Ellen Allred; Minnie Doctor. Seated, center: Mary P. Lambert, Second Counselor, Eighteenth Ward Relief Society, and composer and director of the pageant. Under the direction of Sister Olive M. C. Christiansen, Stake Relief Society President; Sister Nina J. Langford, Stake Secretary-Treasurer, in submitting the above photograph, reports: "The pageant was produced by the Relief Society women in the Sunday evening meeting, March 4, 1946, and was repeated at the Mother's and Daughter's program preceding the South Ogden Stake quarterly conference, May 9th." Photograph submitted by Nina J. Langford NOTES FROM THE FIELD 695 MARICOPA STAKE (ARIZONA), COOLIDGE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, seated, left to right: Jewel Ray, Second Counselor; Rena Goodman, President; Minnie Wing, First Counselor; Charity Brewer. Second row, standing, left to right: Clara Wootan, Secretary-Treasurer, Betty Ellis; Gladys Ray; Ruth Tiffany; Vilate Jones; Ada Chesley; Opal Moody; May Tiffany; Florence Busby. Sister Vida D. Brinton is president of Maricopa Stake Relief Society. The president of Coolidge Ward, Sister Rena Goodman, reports the following activities: "We are just a few in number and are scattered over a thirty-mile area, but we manage to attend our Relief Society meetings. Our popular activity is sewing, most of which is done for our bazaar which is held each fall. Items made for the bazaar include: pillowcases, dish towels, aprons, and children's wear. Last year most of the articles were made from mash sacks. Each month at our work meetings, we Serve refreshments and give recognition to all of the members having birthdays during that month.", Photograph submitted by Rena Goodman ?> CROCHETING Dorothy J. Roberts Beauty flows from her finger tips, The twinkling needle, the tinted yarn, Delicate as a baby's lips. The woman is young OF she is old, Her home small or elaborate, The day is warm OF the season cold. All or any, she only knows Ecstasy as her fingers fly, Fulfillment as the pattern grows. UE} DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 20 The Educational System Developed Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, January 7, 1947 Objective: J(NOWLEDGE of truth brings: freedom. The Master throughout the days of his mortal existence strove ever to teach men this underlying principle of life. He knew that men could not be free to think, free to act, and free to live unless they also were free in agency to seek after truth. So important is free agency for men that God is ever willing to hazard the difficulties which always attend its continuance upon the earth. To relate this thought to the rise and development of the educational system of the restored Church, let us once again think of the opening vision that brought the light from heaven in our-day. "If any of you lack wisdom" (James 1:5) read the young Prophet. In this world men will always lack wisdom and will thirst for its acquirement. The significant thing about Joseph Smith's lack of knowledge is to be found not so much in his limited opportunities to know, as it is in his discovery of the channel through which all great truth comes, namely, the asking of God. It is this fact that looms high above all others if one would explain the astonishing de Page 696 To show that God would have his children seek after all that is good. development of the educational system among the Latter-day Saints. From the organization of the Church, on April 6, 1830, to the present day, the way to better living for the Latter-day Saint people has been illuminated intelligent search for all things of worth, to be found "above the earth, in the earth and below the earth." "The glory of God is intelligence." "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance," revealed the modern Prophet, (Doc. And Cov. 93:36 and 131:6). What a spur these thoughts have been to modern Israel! They stir the imagination to purposeful acts and give new meaning to the utterance of the Savior, "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" (John 8:32). With the knowledge of the new but eternal way of laying claim to the fountain head of all wisdom, young missionaries of the newly restored Church went forth. Most of. These young men were unlettered in the scholastic sense in which one would point to an educated man today. Yet the lack of formal schooling did not dampen their spirits. They felt that as their Prophet and LESSON DEPARTMENT leader might go directly to the Lord for help, they too, might seek his counsel. As the Church membership increased, and as the desire to know more of God's revealed word grew, Joseph Smith sought to bring his elders together in groups to instruct them. It is significant that he founded "The School of the Prophets," and chose for the place of its meeting the top floor of the Kirtland Temple. So inspirational were the classes held in the sacred building that practical men, like Brigham Young, who attended, never forgot the need for educational training in the cause of Zion. The search for truth, it was taught, should be constant and always enjoined by prayer. In one of the revelations given through the Prophet, at Kirtland, we read the following: Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home; things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms. That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to magnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the mission with which I have commissioned you (Doc. And Cov. 88:78-80). With such words from the Lord, there can be no limit to the search for knowledge. All that is good and true in the learning of men, God would have his children know; and 697. Has promised that his grace would attend their teaching and study. Such an inspirational call for leadership in learning left the practical builders of Zion a clear assignment for the erection of schools and academies of higher education. Latter-day Saints would accept all that was good in secular training and then add to such the blessings of the spirit which come through a study of his word. Latter-day Saint schools have always provided instruction for the physical, as well as the spiritual nature of man. The college song of the leading Church institution of higher learning, Brigham Young University, includes this phrase, "The head, the heart, the hand united must be true." How fittingly significant these words suggest the basic philosophy of Latter-day Saints' teaching. Let us consider the "head." From the earliest beginning of education the teacher's calling has been to train the mind, to provide lessons that would provoke clear thinking, and arrange fitting exercises for the development of logic. The love of scholarship often overshadowed the teaching of physical fitness. The "heart" truly inspirational teaching has as its central objective the training of the emotions. These spring from the heart and find their fountain source in the gospel. All true wisdom and understanding must come from God and so, in the best of learning situations, there must be that true instruction of him who knoweth all things. One cannot graduate from a Church school without training in the emotions of the heart. ' The "hand" educationally, the 698 name of Brigham Young will always live among the Latter-day Saints and the world. Not alone because of the many schools he founded, but because of the practical emphasis he placed upon learning. In one of his sermons delivered in the Tabernacle, in October 1860, he said: Educate a young man in mineralogy in our schools, and what does he know? Take him into a field, where you think he will be useful, and you will find that one of the most unlearned of men who has made a little practical study of this subject will go around him a dozen times a day. Why? Because the educated cannot apply what he has received. Educate him as a surveyor. Well, he has to go into the field to labor and practice for a long time before he becomes proficient in that department. The education is good, but where the school drops them we leave them, and the result is, they have to get some other occupation to make a living. Where are the shoemakers and the manufacturers of woolen and cotton goods? Is there a man educated in Utah that can go right into a woolen or a cotton factory and understand the business? Is there a man that can go into the South and take up the business of manufacturing cotton goods? There is not such a man educated in the state, unless he is down South, and I doubt there being any there who can go into the cotton factory and know what to do with the machinery and the cotton. This is a languishing industry in Utah. There was an ox killed in one of the settlements with a certain brand on the hide. That ox hide was sold, and in about eight or ten months it returned to that settlement in the shape of sole leather, with the same brand on it. From the time it left Wellsville until it was returned here it had passed through the hands of eleven men, and we paid them for handling it. This is the system that we have been following. If it had not been for the mercy of God, who saw our ignorance and slothfulness and put it aside, this people would have been poor in temporal circumstances in these mountains. But I do believe that the time has come and sufficient information has been given us, that if we do not take hold of these things and do RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 them properly God will make us responsible and we will suffer for it. I believe in education, but I want to see the boys and girls come out with an education at the fingers' ends as well as in their brains, that they may be able to support themselves. Take our girls who are educated and receive commissions to teach, and if they cannot get schools what do they do? They clerk in a store or do something or other that people can do who have had very little education and their time has been wasted, because their education has not been in the right direction. I believe today that God intends that this people shall take hold of these manufacturing institutions, and put their sons and daughters to such labor as is suited to them. Educate them in these things as well as in letters. If we don't do this, where shall we draw from for men with the capacity to build up Zion and make it a perfect home? It has been stated that Utah includes within her borders all that is necessary to make the people wealthy. But we are neglecting the very means that God has put in our hands to educate our children the right way. The time has come, in my opinion, when our schools, instead of having-so much in the line of gymnastics should give good manual training. They are good to develop the muscles it is true. If they developed them with the hoe, or the axe, or the plow, or something that is useful, it would do them more good. If we could have our little farms, our blacksmith shops, our turning lathes, our carpenter's shops, our factories, and educate our children in these things as they go along, we would turn out men who could be moulded and used for the benefit and upbuilding of the Zion of our God. Zion has to be built up, and we want men who are capable of superintending in every department. God designs that men should be educated for this purpose (Conference Reports, October 1860, PP. 44-45)- The threefold philosophy of instruction, so much a part of Brigham Young University graduates, stands out today in the lives of this great institution's sons and daughters. In all fields of useful endeavor the men and women of Brigham LESSON DEPARTMENT Young University are to be found. They possess not only the scholarship and practical training a well-rounded education affords, but, what is most important, they are given an emotional poise that can only come where religious instruction is given under the inspiration of the Priesthood and by those having authority to teach the truth, not merely the philosophies of religious thought. And so, out of the lack of wisdom which sent a humble youth to seek his Maker, has come a great Church with its attendant institutions of higher learning, its seminaries, and its Institutes of Religion. Wherever Latter-day Saints are gathered in numbers, on the grounds of high schools or the campuses of colleges or universities, there the Church has reached out to provide the teachings of the Lord. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested readings given below, have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. A noted educator of a great eastern 699 university once made the following remark about Latter-day Saints he had come to know as students during his years of instruction at the institution: "How can a Mormon but succeed as a scholar when he believes God is walking beside him in his studies?" What teachings in our Church would implant such a belief in the youth? Read Do. And Cov. 88:67-80. Spend time discussing verse 67 of this passage. 2. Who may have claim upon the "Light of Christ,' who upon the "Gift of the Holy Ghost?" Read Doc. And Cov. 88:1-13. Compare verse 4 with verses 11-13. Will the answer to this question explain how all men of learning have arrived at truth? 3. One who would ascend the heights of learning must first be humble. Discuss. Read Doc. And Cov. 88:117-127. What are the lessons you would take to a student which are to be found in the passages assigned for reading in section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Give the class time to find and comment upon a choice. The complete story of the founding and development of an educational system among the Latter-day Saints cannot be outlined in an hour's lesson. Its spirit and purpose, however, may. For the teacher who would prepare more fully this lesson the text, Mormonism and Education by M. Lynn Bennion, is suggested. The many charts, lists of founding dates for schools and academies, personal accounts of leading men who brought about a system of learning for the youth of Zion are therein all interestingly recorded. TRIOLET Merling Dennis Clyde Harvesting love is best each year; Sowing freely to hearts that yearn; Leaving the rest to God, my dear. Harvesting love is best each year. No seed quite leaves the garden sere, Surprising with a quick return. Harvesting love is best each year; Sowing freely to hearts that yearn. Visiting Teachers' Messages Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 4?Courage President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, January 7, 1947 Objective: To show that courage, an outstanding virtue, was possessed by the pioneers; not alone courage to meet physical dangers, but also courage to meet spiritual pitfalls. PIONEERIN Western America one hundred years ago was a hazardous undertaking. It was fraught with trying difficulties, stubborn obstacles, and many serious dangers. 'There were roadways to be made, rivers to ford, and mountain ranges to cross, all in a wilderness which was inhabited by wild animals and barbarous red men. Notwithstanding all these difficulties and dangers, the Mormon pioneers went bravely forward and undertook this gigantic task. Motivated by their religious convictions and their desire for freedom, and with implicit faith in the project, there was engendered within them a courage that was remarkable and outstanding; a courage which enabled them, from the very beginning, men and women alike, to meet with valor and daring their difficulties and problems; a courage which seemed to lift them up, to help them over hard places, to help them to overcome or banish fear, discouragement, and futility;-a courage which helped them to feel and realize that their sacrifices would ultimately bring a rich reward; a courage which enabled them to resist and overcome spiritual pitfalls. Leaving Nauvoo in the dead of winter, February 4, 1846, the saints crossed the Mississippi River on the ice, and formed their first camp at Sugar Creek. It was nine miles from Nauvoo, their beloved city, which they could still see in the distance, and which most of them would never see again. Whitney says: That night, a bitter night, nine children were born in tents and wagons in that wintery camp. How these tender babies, these sick and delicate women were cared for under such conditions, is left to the imagination of the sensitive reader (Whitney, Orson F., History of Utah, Vol. 1, page 249). During all the days of pioneering, quite as important as any other contribution made by the pioneer woman, was her moral courage and inspiration. One of the bronze plaques on Utah's Seagull Monument, located on Temple Square, Salt Lake City, and "Erected in grateful remembrance of the mercy of God to the Utah Pioneers," portrays the pioneer woman. She is the inspiration of the group in which she is placed. She stands erect beside the man, who, with drooping head and relaxed muscles is plainly disheartened. 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946  The children are weary and_ with unfaltering faith into the blue listless. It is the woman, with head of heaven and sees the gulls coming up and muscles tense, who looks to save the crops. Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4 Stitches and Seams Work Meeting Committee, Velma N. Simonsen, Chairman For Tuesday, January 14, 1947 Objective: To practice stitches on pieces of cloth brought to class by members; to discuss bastings, kinds, and uses. Textbook reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapters 4 and 5. Stitches [ is the desire of every seamstress that her completed garment shall have a professional, finished appearance. The cause of many clothes having a homemade look is due to pulling the thread too tightly when stitching. Enough play should be _ allowed for smoothness, as well as strength, in seams. The running stitch is the basic process of all fine needlework. It is a series of short, even stitches requiring a particular muscular technique which is acquired only with practice. Gathers, shirrs, and tucks are all made with the running stitch technique, the difference being in the application of this stitch. Bastings are simple running stitches used for temporary joinings, some of them merely holding the pieces together while they are stitched. Seams and Edges Seams and edges make the structural lines of the garment. They give shape and design, and they form "eyepaths" along which the eye travels. Hence, it is very necessary that they be finished to perfection. To seam is to join two or more pieces of fabric together. Artistic seaming requires skill in the handling of material and finishing. Seams are judged on the right side for their beauty; on the wrong side for their security. Never cross one seam with another until the first has been pressed and finished, is the tule which governs artistic workmanship, and the master rule for good tailoring. It is desirable, when sewing seams on very thin material, to sew the material over thin paper. Assignment for February: Bring cut-out garment. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men (Romans 12:18). LESSON DEPARTMENT 701 702 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 Revealed in Its Literature Lesson 3?Youthtime of a Nation Dedicated to Freedom Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, January 21, 1947 IP VAN WINKLE by Washington Irving, is at once a delightful old tale and a portrayal of contrasts. Before the henpecked Rip wandered off and fell into his long, strange sleep, his home town was a quiet Dutch village with its quaint folk and quaint colonial ways. When he awakened twenty years afterwards, and wandered back home: He found the house gone to decay? the roof fallen in, the windows shattered, and the doors off the hinges.... He called loudly for his wife and children; the lonely chambers rang for a moment with his voice, and then all again was silence. He now hurried forth, and hastened to his old resort, the village inn but it too was gone. A large, rickety, wooden building stood in its place, with great gaping windows,... And over the door was painted, "The Union Hotel, by Jonathan Doolittle." Instead of the great tree that used to shelter the quiet little Dutch inn of yore, here now was reared a tall naked pole,... And from it was fluttering a flag, on which was a singular assemblage of stars and stripes. All this was strange and incomprehensible. He recognized on the sign, however, the ruby face of King George,... But even this was singularly metamorphosed. The red coat was changed for one of blue and buff, a sword was held in the hand instead of a scepter, the head was decorated with a cocked hat, and underneath was painted in large characters, GENERAL WASHINGTON. There was, as usual, a crowd of folk about the door, but none that Rip recollected. The very character of the people seemed changed. There was a busy, bustling, disputatious tone about it, instead of the accustomed phlegm and drowsy tranquility. He looked in vain for the sage Nicholas Vedder,... Or Van Bummel, the schoolmaster, doling forth the contents of an ancient newspaper. In place of these, a lean, bilious-looking fellow, with his pockets full of handbills, was haranguing vehemently about rights of citizens, election, members of Congress, liberty- Bunker's Hill, heroes of seventy-six and other words which were a perfect Babylonish jargon to the bewildered Van Winkle. The appearance of Rip, with his long, grizzled beard, his rusty fowling piece, his uncouth dress, and the army of women * and children that had gathered at his heels, soon attracted the attention of the tavern politicians. They crowded round him, eyeing him from head to foot, with great curiosity. The orator bustled up to him, and... Inquired "on which side he voted." Rip stared in vacant stupidity. Another short but busy little fellow... Inquired in his ear "Whether he was Federal or Democrat."... "Alas! Gentlemen," cried Rip, somewhat dismayed, "I am a poor, quiet man, a native of the place, and a loyal subject of the King, God bless him!" Here a general shout burst from the bystanders: "'A tory! A tory! A spy! A refugee! Hustle him! Away with him!" It was with great difficulty that the self-important man in the cocked hat restored order. Rip, as those who know the classic story will recall, finally was brought out of his tangle of troubles, restored to his children and friends. Gradually he came to a realization of some of the revolutionary changes that had taken place during his protracted sleep. He was told that there LESSON DEPARTMENT had been a war that the country had thrown off the yoke of Old England and that, instead of being a subject of His Majesty George the Third, he was now a free citizen of the United States." Rip was indeed not the only one who was a bit bewildered over the changes that had come to America. It took many of the freed people some time before they could adjust themselves to the new liberties they had won. In the light of what is happening in various countries over the earth today, with freedom thrust upon them by the second world war, it should not be difficult to picture our own nation in its youth time. There was just one basic difference then and now: young America had no clear, set pattern of self-government to follow. This, in large measure, had to be constructed. Words from Lincoln's Gettysburg Address state with force and clarity the serious problem that challenged the leaders who founded our country: Four score and seven years ago our Fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. ) That was a grave question with many who saw the rise of young America and even helped in shaping its beginnings would the nation live and last as a democracy? Folk, long accustomed to live under a monarchy, had sincere misgivings as to the outcome. Winning a war is one thing; winning a just and lasting peace is an- 703 other. It takes, as all the world is right now - beginning keenly to realize, the highest wisdom of peace loving leaders to resolve a conflict ?to turn the hearts and minds of men from destructive to constructive ways of life. Can we do it now? War, like a magnet, draws folk of different classes together to make common cause against a common foe. It was so with the Thirteen Colonies. Unity brought victory; what then? Naturally, with the enemy of all vanquished, there was a tendency for each colony to go its Own separate way. Would America, thus weakened, fall to another strong power? Will the nations, torn by dissensions, lose today what was so dearly won? Something of this kind, remember, happened to the Children of Israel. Led by Joshua, they had retaken the "Promised Land." Then, each of the tribes resettled its assigned portion. With the unifying force that had held them together during the conquest lessened, they suffered repeated attacks from surrounding enemies until they began to clamor for a king. This, Samuel, the great high priest, at first denied them; but when the word of the Lord came to the effect that the foolish people, having forsaken God, should be given their own unwise way, a king was appointed to rule them. Would youthful America repeat such history? Some felt strongly that a monarchy would be best for the new nation; and one went so far as to propose to Washington that he be king. The suggestion brought a stinging rebuff to the one that made it. In his poem "Washington 704- the Nation Builder" Edwin Markham wrote: When fortune flung him a crown, he flung The bauble back and followed the people's dream. How then, if not as a monarchy, could the young nation survive? How could the lofty ideals set forth in the Declaration of Independence be maintained? How might there be builded a "government of the people, by the people, for the people," that would "not perish from the earth?" A clear, sound answer came through another inspired document, the Constitution of the United States. This great charter of our liberties, we should remember, came as a rich fruitage of centuries of struggle and sacrifice on the part of patriots. It sets forth, with clarity and force, basic principles of freedom for which they fought and sometimes died. Its prime originality lies in the fact that here, for the first time, the world was given, in writing, a solid foundation for liberty. Our young nation wisely adopted it as the "Supreme Law of the Land." Its central purposes are clearly set forth in the preamble: We, the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect Union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this CONSTITUTION for-the United States of America. "We the people" is the phrase of most vital significance. It represents a long climb upward from "I the king." It was clear recognition on the part of the framers of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 Constitution of the prime source of fundamental rights and power in government: these rest in the people. Officers chosen freely by popular vote are but representatives of the people who honor them by such selection. This was made plain in the great charter. The Bill of Rights ten amendments specifically protecting the people in freedom of religion, of speech, of the press, and in other rights was adopted in 1791. These fundamental, and natural rights are now, as someone has said, "ingrained in our American natures." Many folk, who enjoy the blessings of peace and protection of their precious rights under our Constitution, seem to take these for granted. They appear to think little of the long years of struggle and devotion to great principles that it has taken to give us this bulwark of our liberties. If they did, they would bow their heads in gratitude for the patriotic men and women who gave their lives for liberty; and for the Founding Fathers whose vision, devotion, and courage gave us a new charter for the freedom they won. It was with a heart full of gratitude for these blessings that Joseph Hopkinson created, in 1789, the first of our national anthems, to be sung at the inauguration of our first president, George Washington, who had justly won the tribute: "First in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen." With the background of this study to add significance, lines from that old song will ring with new meaning: Hail Columbia, happy land, Hail! Ye heroes, heav'n-born band, Who fought and bled in freedom's cause, Who fought and bled in freedom's cause, LESSON DEPARTMENT And when the storm of war was gone, Enjoyed the peace your valor won! Let independence be our boast, Ever mindful what it cost, Ever grateful for the prize, Let its altar reach the skies. Sound, sound the trump of fame! Let Washington's great name Ring thro' the world with loud applause! Ring thro' the world with loud applause! Let ev'ry clime to freedom dear Listen with a joyful ear; With equal skill, with steady pow'r, He governs in the fearful hour Of horrid war, or guides with ease The happier time of honest peace. Refrain: Firm, united let us be, Rallying round our liberty, As a band of brothers joined, Peace and safety we shall find. While Washington, who had spurned a kingship, and had presided over the group of men who framed the Constitution, is naturally to be accorded first place among those Founding Fathers, there were other statesmen who should not be forgotten. Benjamin Franklin gave ripe wisdom to the work; Alexander Hamilton added his helpful contributions; while James Madison, not only gave invaluable assistance, but preserved an official and also intimate record of the proceedings. Besides these there were other fine, devoted minds to aid in laying the solid foundation for our new nation. Let it not be thought that this was to be the end of the building. It was indeed, only the beginning of a daring venture. Days immediately ahead would test the firmness of the structure that had been raised. Not only that, but the people themselves had to learn how to conduct themselves in accordance with the basic rules for self-government laid 705 down, or what they had built would be destroyed. Washington, as first President, had to meet serious internal disturbances like that of the "Whisky Rebellion." With firmness and justice he dealt with the problems, and strengthened the young nation. For eight years he guided its destinies through sun and storm; then, refusing a third term of office, he retired to a well-earned, less arduous service as proprietor of Mount Vernon. Respect for our new. Nation was being won at home, with pride growing in its achievements. How to win it abroad was the serious question. How to keep out of entanglements with foreign powers, as Washington in his Farewell Address advised, was an ever-present problem. It is still with us. During the youth time of our: country, England and France were in an almost constant state of war. Both these nations rather arrogantly encroached on our rights as a free power; there was disregard, especially of the "freedom of the seas." Our Yankee ships came into clash with these and other offenders. Finally, during the administration of James Madison, a second war came with England. Fortunately, because Great Britain's hands were full with the struggle to defeat Napoleon, this War of 1812?so-called?was of comparatively brief duration. It was at this time that our stirring anthem "The Star Spangled Banner" was created. A brief analysis of that song will serve here in two ways: First, it will help to show the spirit of the young nation; and second, it should help us to sing the song with deeper understanding and more fervor than is usually done. Remember, first, that it was created during a critical battle. A British army had just taken our national capital. President Madison and his officers had been forced to flee. 'The British fleet, flushed with triumph, suddenly appeared before Baltimore, another key city, and launched an attack on Fort-McHenry, above which floated the Stars and Stripes. Francis Scott Key, a young American lawyer, trying to arrange for the freeing of a friend who was on one of the enemy ships, was held prisoner there while the battle to tear down his country's flag was on. Through the long night he paced the deck anxiously, waiting the doubtful outcome. Finally, to relieve his feelings, he took from his pocket a letter, and on the back of it wrote the lines that have rung down the years. Anxiety, uncertainty as to the battle's outcome, is the spirit of the first stanza: Oh say, can you see, by the dawn's early light, What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars, through the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming! In other words, is our flag still flying? Is the poet's troubled question. O say, does the star spangled banner yet wave, O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave?" The second stanza is one of recognition and answer to the first. Morning breaks, and? On the shore, dimly seen through the mists of the deep, Where the foe's haughty host in dread silence reposes,; What is that which the breeze, o'er the towering steep, As it fitfully blows, now conceals, now discloses? Now it catches the gleam of the morning's first beam, In full glory reflected now shines on the stream; Then comes the line of joy and triumph? "Tis the star spangled banner! May it wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave. Oh, long The third stanza, sometimes omitted, yet a vital part of the song, is a taunt to the foe in defeat: And where is that band who so vauntingly swore That the havoc of war and the battle's confusion, A home and a country should leave us no more? Their blood has washed out their foul footsteps' pollution. Finally comes the crowning stanza one of dedication: Oh! Thus be it ever, when free men shall stand Between their loved homes and the wat's desolation! Blest with victory and peace, may the heaven-rescued land Praise the Power that hath made and preserved us a nation. Then conquer we must, for our cause it is just, And this be our motto: 'In God is our trust.' And the star spangled banner in triumph shall wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave. 706 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT In light of this brief analysis, how unthinking and unappreciative is the common practice over the country of singing only the first stanza of our national anthem. If time permits of just one stanza, certainly 't should be the last one. This breathes the true spirit of our America, It has profound meaning for our nation always. Our flag ? symbol of liberty through righteousness has inspired poets through the years. Another lyric created during the youth time of our nation by Joseph Rodman Drake, vibrates with the joy and uplift inspired by Old Glory. Following are typical stanzas from this poem "The American Flag." When Freedom from her mountain height Unfurled her standard to the air, _She tore the azure robe of night, And set the stars of glory there; She mingled with its gorgeous dyes The milky baldric of the skies, * And striped its pure, celestial white With streakings of the morning light; Then from his mansion in the sun She called her eagle bearer down, And gave into his mighty hand The symbol of her chosen land.  Flag of the free heart's hope and home, By angel hands to valor given; Thy stars have lit the welkin dome, And all thy hues were born in heaven. Forever float that standard sheet! Where breathes the foe but falls before us, With Freedom's soil beneath our feet, And Freedom's banner streaming o'er us? Dr. Timothy Dwight, one of the earlier presidents of Yale University, also gave us an ever-popular song of intensely patriotic spirit. Its first stanza follows: O Columbia, the gem of the ocean, The home of the brave and the free, The. Shrine of each patriot's devotion, A world offers homage to thee. Thy mandates make heroes assemble, When Liberty's form stands in view; 707 'Thy banners make tyranny tremble, When borne by the red, white, and bine All these, and other poems, are expressive of the spirit that brought our young nation into being and held it true to its course through the earlier years. In that same spirit of true patriotism, of trust in God, the author of liberty based on righteousness, America has carried on thus far triumphantly through all its testing difficulties. And, if our nation remain true to its divine trust, it will continue to be a land of freedom? a pattern for all the rest of the world. Discussion and Activities 1. A. Why does winning a peace require the highest type of Christian-minded statesmanship? B. Quote words from the Savior on the high place of the peacemaker. 2, a. Why were the days immediately following our war for freedom sometimes called the Dangerous Days? B. How did the making and adopting of the Constitution hold our nation true to its course as a land of freedom? 3. Quote from our Prophet Joseph Smith, or from President Brigham Young, statements to show that Latter-day Saints hold that the Founding Fathers were inspired in their work of creating this charter of our liberties. 4. What is implied for the world in these lines from Longfellow's "Building of the Ship?" Sail on, O Union, strong and great! Humanity with all its fears, With all its hopes of future years, Is hanging breathless on thy fate! 5. How does a clear knowledge of the story of the youth time of our nation help one to appreciate problems being faced today by other nations in their struggle to win peace and lasting freedom? 6. What is one thing that comes from such a study as this that makes you more appreciative, more grateful for out America? References A brief history of the United States? such as a school text will give essential facts concerning the period covered in this study. Constitution of the United States? usually found in history books. An inexpensive book, containing the Constitution and six other great documents, "which constitute the American way of life," is The American Canon, by Daniel L. Marsh? Abingdon-Cokesbury Publishers. (This little volume is well worth possessing. ) The Golden Book of Favorite Songs, Hall McCready, Co., Chicago used in M. I. A. ?contains many of our national and other typically American songs. Untermeyer, Louis, American Poetry to Whitman. John C. South, The Story of Our Country in Poetry, contains other lyrics. Fiction portraying this period of our nation's youth time is not so rich as that for some other periods. A few novels of merit dealing in general with the epoch are: The Conqueror, Atherton; Tree of Liberty, Elizabeth Page; Dri and I (War of 1812), Irving Bacheller; Captain Caution, Kenneth Roberts. Optional lessons in 2b sou of a literature, The Gospel as a Way of Life Lesson 4 Repentance Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, January 21, 1947 REPENTANCE is listed as the second principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ, following logically the principle of faith. When one has acquired and developed an abiding faith in God and the saving power of Christ's atoning sacrifice, it is natural to seek release from the painful remembrance of one's former unrighteous conduct. The process by which this release from the consequences of sin is attained is the God-given principle of repentance. Sin is the violation of the pattern of living that is pleasing to God. Any departure from the course that God has given for the welfare of his children falls into the classification of sinful living. Many, however, are in great need of a repentance from wrong-believing and unChristian teachings. Until there is a repentance from these errors of doctrine, there can be no true acceptance of the atonement of Christ or the concept of a loving God and Father. To hold to erroneous beliefs would be offensive to God and *Latter-day Saints distinguish between a universal or unconditional salvation and a conditional or individual salvation, including exaltation. President John Taylor wrote: "He (Jesus) bore the weight of the sins of the whole world, not only of Adam, but of his posterity: and in doing that, opened the kingdom of heaven, not only to all behevers and all who obeyed the law of God, but to more than one-half of the human family who die before they come to years of maturity, as well as to the heathen, who, 708 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT, 709 having died without law, will through His mediation be resurrected without law, and be judged without law, and thus participate, according to their capacity, works, and worth, in the blessings of His atonement." (Taylor, Pres. John, Mediation and Atonement, pp. 148-149). We read in the Articles of Faith: "The individual effect of the atonement makes it possible for any and every soul to obtain absolution from the effect of personal sins, through the mediation of Christ; but such saving intercession is to be invoked by individual effort as manifested through faith, repentance, and continued works of righteousness.... Exaltation is given to those only who by righteous effort have won a claim to God's merciful liberality by which it is bestowed.... In the kingdom of God there are numerous degrees or gradations provided for those who are worthy of them; in the house of our Father there are many mansions, into which only those who are prepared are admitted." (Talmage, James E., Articles of Faith, pp. 89, 91). Keep the one who believed in them estranged from the love and forgiveness that God desires to grant to those who seek him with repentant hearts and receptive minds. The process of repentance is a step-by-step change in life, voluntarily done on the part of the penitent wrongdoer. One theologian has named these steps, "Recognition, Remorse, Resolution and Retribution the Four R's of Repentance." They represent a good summary of the process by which one seeks to change his life and become a worthy Christian. Before one can commence the work of repenting, there is need to be aware of having sinned. This brings the person to a condition in which he recognizes the nature of the sin that has been committed, and he becomes convinced that he did wrong. This first step is often one of the most difficult in the entire repentance process. We are so prone to justify our own conduct, that we have difficulty in convincing ourselves that we are guilty of wrong-doing. Nephi spoke of this condition of human frailty when he said: Yea, and there shall be many which shall say: Eat, drink. And be merry, for tomorrow we die; and it shall be well with us. And there shall also be many which shall say: Eat, drink, and be merry; nevertheless, fear God-he will justify in committing a little sin; yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God.... And thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell (II Nephi 28:7, 8, 21). Once, however, having gained a conviction that there has been a wrong done, the next step should be a regret or feeling of remorse because of the evil that has been committed. Unless this feeling of sorrow enters the soul, there is little likelihood that there will be any true repentance. 'There are innumerable souls who do wrong, frankly admit it, but seem to feel no remorse as a consequence of their acts, and go gaily along the path of continuous sinning. However, if the remorse is really present, the sinner desires to be relieved of the effects of the sin? both upon himself and upon others if they were involved by his conduct. In this condition, he seeks his Maker, supplicating for forgive- ness and confessing his sins. 'The confessing of sinful conduct is one of the greatest benefits that comes from repentance. 'The Lord has instructed us that we are required to confess our sins and stated that this was the test of real repentance. By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins behold, he will confess them and forsake them (Doc. And Cov. 58:43. See also 19:20; 42:88-92 and 61:2). 'The act of confessing, although painful, has a wonderful effect upon the soul, giving it a new view of God's love and forgiveness, and a feeling of having overcome the sin, through recognition of it. Surely the embarrassment of confession is a small price to pay for the priceless boon of a relieved conscience and a feeling of oneness with God which it brings. There follows a third step that is necessary in the repentance plan. Recognition of wrong-doing and regret are not sufficient. The-test of the genuineness of repentance comes in the determination of the former sinner not only to forsake his sin, but in the resolution to sin no more. This is, of course, another test in the process to gain release from sin. True repentance consists of forsaking the sin and returning to it no more. The success of the repentance process is measured at this stage by the firmness and sincerity of the resolution to sin no more. One who has been caught in the act of sinning may be forced to go through the first two steps because of external pressure brought to bear upon him, but the resolution to refrain from future sin is a matter of the will, not of force. If possible, the repenting sinner should, lastly, undertake to make restitution for the sins already committed. Sometimes this can be done by returning stolen goods or money, giving service to those against whom the sin was committed, or making other compensation for the evil done. In other cases a sincere confession of guilt or an apology may suffice. In still other cases, the retribution may have to remain on the mental level of improved thinking, that sinful beliefs may no longer hamper the free exercise of the mind. The apostle Paul, following his conversion, devoted his life to the Christian cause, feeling this to be the least that he could do to compensate for the evil that he had performed when persecuting. The Christians. In this way, he hoped to make the restitution as great or greater than the sin for which he held himself accountable. The parable of the prodigal son is an excellent illustration of these stages in repentance. After the willful separation from his home and family, and at the end of a period of sinful living, the young man found himself engaged as the most menial of all the hired laborers on a farm a feeder of swine. Famine prevailed, and he envied the hogs who were able to eat, wishing that he might partake with them of the unpalatable husks upon which they existed. At this stage, the parable records, "he came to himself," that is, he came to recognize his sinful life. He had remorse as he thought of his former home and envied his father's hired help, who were much better off than he. Then came the resolution, "I will arise and go to my father." 710 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT Here was the resolution to leave his sinful world. At home again, he said, "Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, And am no more worthy to be called thy son:" He was seeking only to be classed as one of his father's hired helpers (Luke 15:11-32). Jesus pointed out in this ever-new story the steps that occur in the process of a sinner finding himself and returning to his God. In this dispensation the Lord has given specific commandments to the Church concerning its responsibility to preach repentance. 'To Hyrum Smith he said, "Say nothing but repentance unto this generation." To John Whitmer, the Lord said, "".... I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me...." (Doc. And Cov. 11:9; 15:6; see also 16:6; 19:21). To Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer was given this glorious promise with their call to missionary service: Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth! Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, 71 and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father! (Doc. And Cov. 18:10-15) Repentance is more than just a routine by which the sinner repents and accepts God and finds his Savior. It is a continuous process that must be practiced throughout life. Our concept of eternal progression should teach us that we must continually strive to repent of bad habits of action and thinking, and replace them with better ones. These again must give way to still greater improvements in habits of thought and conduct until we overcome all sin. Repentance is a principle of growth that should be practiced along with faith throughout mortality. Questions and Activity Problems 1. In what sense is confession a part of true repentance? Trace the steps taken by the repentant sinner in ascending from sin to the good life of a follower of Jesus Christ. 3. Have a class member give a reading from Alma 32:6-16 and Alma 34:28-35. This selection might be read to the accompaniment of soft music as a stimulating introduction to the lesson.. 4. During the lesson encourage the expression of appreciation for an understanding of the principle of repentance. Wv Reading and References Doctrine and Covenants, 64:9, 10. Talmage, Articles of Faith, 109-116. Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 148, 197, 240. Smith, President Joseph F., Gospel Doctrine, pp. 117, 118. Social Science The Family in the Gospel Plan Lesson 3 The Importance of Child Training Social Science Committee, Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman For Tuesday. January 28, 1947 Lesson Link: In the previous lesson, ""The Family Organization," we considered essential attributes of husband and wife and the rights and responsibilities of various members of the family. In this lesson we will discuss fundamental principles of child training, stressing the importance of the good example to be set by the parents. Objective: To give specific guidance in child training and to stress the need of developing sound practices in the important calling of parenthood. HILD training is an art of the _first order. Intelligent application of this art is perhaps needed at the present time more than any other thing. Child delinquency has assumed such alarming proportions as to indicate that parents may not be fulfilling their responsibilities toward their children: It is a lamentable fact that often no preparation is made for this most important profession. Education and training are demanded in all phases of business, science, and other fields of endeavor, but in the most noble profession of all, that of parenthood, no training is expected. There are courses in child training being given in our universities, and more students, particularly _ girls, who will be the mothers of the future, should study these courses. Child training demands a great amount of self-control and common sense on the part of parents. Children react so differently to the same experiences that it is a puzzle to always determine the proper treatment. We know that each child is individual in his make-up and that the same rules cannot be applied to everyone alike. There are some principles of child training, however, which are fundamentally sound and which, if consistently followed, will build sound characters. Essentials in Child Training First of all, child training should begin very early. Solomon of old said, "Train up a child in the way he should go; and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6), Parents too often underrate the intelligence of a child by thinking he knows very little until he can talk plainly. The day a child is born is the time to begin his training. Behavior patterns begin from that day. Habits in order, in courtesy, in control of the emotions, and many others, can be taught very tiny children. Most of the routine habits and standards of conduct can be well defined in preschool years. Child training must be persistent to be effective. No habit is formed except by repetition. President McKay gave the following quotation of Luther Burbank, the great plant wizard, who said: 712 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT Above all, bear in mind repetition the use of an influence over and over again, keeping everlastingly at it. This is what fixes traits in plants, the constant repetition of an influence until at last it ls irrevocably fixed and will not change. You cannot afford to get discouraged. You are dealing with something far more precious than any plant the precious soul of a child! One of President Grant's favorite quotations also bears out this idea: That which we persist in doing becomes easier for us to do; not that the nature of the thing itself is changed, but that our power to do is increased (Gospel Standards, page 355). In a certain kindergarten, it was the rule that the children remove their own galoshes and set them neatly in a closet. It was necessary to remind the children of this responsibility a varying number of times. One child was reminded seventeen times before. This habit became fixed. Example is a vital principle of child training, and wields more influence than all the preaching that may be done. A proper example is the greatest assurance parents have that their children will grow into upright citizens. Children are great imitators and are very susceptible to the things they see. Brigham Young said: If parents will continually set before their children examples worthy of their imitation and the approval of our Father in Heaven, they will turn the current, and the tide of feelings of their children, and they, eventually, will desire righteousness more than evil (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 322; 1941 edition, page 208). It is in the home that children learn to distinguish between right and wrong. Standards are set by the parents. It is quite useless to 713 say, "Do as I say, but not as I do." The story is told of a Sunday School class in which the teacher was reciting the evils and consequences of drinking beer and liquor. After she had gone on at some length, a small boy raised his hand and said, ""Teacher, it isn't wrong to drink beer. My mama and daddy drink beer." His parents had set the standard and what they did was right to him. The attitude parents have toward Church authorities and sustaining the law of the land is very important. A child will learn to criticize the General Authorities and to disregard the law more readily by hearing criticism in the home than in any other way. Children develop attitudes of what they consider to be right and wrong largely through the attitude of the parents shown by disapproval or rewards in regard to their actions. Those acts which bring upon the child disfavor or punishment come to be avoided and to be regarded as wrong by the child, while those which bring praise and commendation become desirable and, therefore, in the mind of the child are right. This is as it should be. If a child is shown no displeasure for the transgression of rules, he sees no reason why he should not repeat the act. Likewise, if a child is given no praise nor encouragement from performing well a prescribed act, he will see no incentive for repeating it. A child should learn that happiness comes through conformity to right principles; freedom is really conformity to right principles. Many authorities on child welfare believe parents are lax in administering both punishment and praise. For 714 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1946 a number of years the trend was not to inhibit a child, and the pendulum swung so far in that direction that in many homes restraint became almost entirely removed. 'This resulted in disrespect for parental guidance. Restraint is good for everyone young and old. An eminent child psychologist has said it is the responsibility of parents to prepare their children to do without them. This, at first, may sound rather heartless, but is right, nevertheless. Children should be trained to take their places in the world, to be able to stand on their own feet, make their own decisions ?in other words, they should be equipped to meet life. Essential Principles What principles of training contribute to successful adulthood, which ones equip a child to meet life? It is very important that children be given responsibility and that they learn how to work. From early childhood they should be given regular duties and assignments. Many children, especially those living in cities, are asked to do very little. Parents who do not find work for a child to do, who do not teach him to be proud of honest toil and to do his work well, are doing that child a grave injustice. There is no reason why boys in the city, lacking farm or other outside duties, should not help with the housework, scrub floors, clean the basement, wash windows, etc. Because it requires so much time and patience, mothers are prone to do many things themselves rather than train the children to do them well. 'This is detrimental to the children. Dependability is a virtue of great worth and should be implanted in a child at an early age. Jimmy Done was expected, among other things, to fill the woodbox each evening. One evening he played ball with the boys until quite late, came in tired, and, forgetting the wood, went to bed. Brother Done came home from a meeting about ten o'clock, saw the woodbox empty and Jimmy asleep. He awakened the boy, made him dress and go out in the dark for the wood. This was not an unkindness, but good training in dependability. A child should never be allowed to neglect an assignment or slip away without fulfilling it. Continuous follow-up work is therefore necessary and it. Will prove very worthwhile. Never tell a child to do anything unless you see that he does it. Firmness without undue severity will bring results. Parents should always keep the promises they make. Quoting Brigham Young: What did you promise your little girl if she would do so and so? Did you promise her a present for well doing? "Yes." Have you recollected it? '"'No, it has gone from my mind," says the mother. If she does ill have you promised her a chastisement? "Yes." Did you keep your word? You have not, and the child forms the conclusion in its own mind directly that the mother tells that which is not true.. If you wish to make them presents, do so; if you promise a chastisement, keep your word (Discourses of Bigham Young, pp. 325-326; 1941 edition, page 210). Teamwork is important in the home, all pulling together and each member receiving due recognition. Sometimes, though parents may be wholly unconscious of so doing, the child that is the most demonstrative, LESSON DEPARTMENT or the youngest, or the most aggressive, ls given more favors and advantages than the others. This should never be, for it is unfair treatment. Children sense it very keenly and resent it. Along with laxness in maintaining parental authority has come also a let down in courtesy. Nothing is so refining as the little words and deeds of consideration to others which spell politeness. It has been said, "Courtesy is understood in any language and is an open sesame to the doors of strangers." Only when courtesy is practiced in the home does it really become a part of one's everyday life. Respect for the rights of others is an integral part of courtesy. Methods of Correction Correction and chastisement are often necessary in training children. We may pattern our conduct in such matters on the words of the Doctrine and Covenants given as advice to Priesthood members: Reproving betimes with sharpness. And then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy. Stern issuing of commands may bring temporary response from small children, but older ones may rebel against too severe parental authority. President Joseph F. Smith has said: More can be accomplished for good by unfeigned love, in bringing up a child, than by any other influence that can be brought to bear upon it. A child that cannot be conquered by the lash, or subdued by violence, may be controlled in an instant by unfeigned affection and sympathy (Gospel Doctrine, page 368). 715 President George Albert Smith has said, "Love people into doing things. If you cannot get them to do as you wish through love, there is no other way." Bring up your children in the love and fear of the Lord; study their dispositions and their temperaments, and deal with them accordingly, never allowing yourself to correct them in the heat of passion; teach them to love you rather than to fear you.... (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 320; 1941 edition, page 207). Isolation as a means of correction for young children is most effective. Nonconformity to rules results in the child being taken away from the group. Kindergartens and nursery schools use this method of control. A magazine article disclosed the fact that this was the method of punishment used in the rearing of the Dionne quintuplets. Some authorities on child training say that a punishment should be related to the offense whenever possible. A child who does not bring his tricycle in at night should not be allowed to use it for one or two days. If Mary does not come when called to help wash and dry the dishes, she should have to do them alone the next night. If Jack does not come in from play when called, tomorrow he should forego that pleasure. Love Versus Indulgence There is a form of parental love which is detrimental to children. It is the love which indulges to excess. Sometimes parents say, "Well I don't want my children to have as hard a life as I had," or "I want to give my children a lot of the things I couldn't have." They do not realize that many times they are making 716 their children selfish, proud, and ungrateful. Someone has - said, "Mothers too often rule with their hearts rather than with their minds," inferring that mothers sometimes indulge children because they are softhearted, even though wisdom would tell them it is not right. Some parents are so sympathetic they cannot administer punishment even when they know it is deserved. President Joseph F. Smith has said: God's ways of educating our desires are, of course, always the most perfect.. And what is God's way? Everywhere in nature we are taught the lessons of patience and waiting. We want things a long time before we get them, and the fact that we wanted them a long time makes them all the more precious when they come.... It is... Most unfortunate for children when their parents greatly weaken or almost wholly destroy the children's capacity for the enjoyment of some of the most wholesome pleasures of life. The child who has everything he wants and when he wants it is really to be pitied, for he has no ability to enjoy it.... It is just as wrong systematically to give a child everything he desires as to deny the child everything (Gospel Doctrine, pp. 372- 373). Real love recognizes the value of wise guidance, gives affection its proper place, and deals gently but firmly with the child. Constructive Influence of Praise Every human being desires recognition to be accepted by the group. This is an inborn desire and, for normal development, this need should be satisfied. * Many children are starved for praise. Most parents would not think of letting their children go hungry or without adequate clothing. But they do let them go for months without a word of praise or approval. Encouragement is oxygen to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1946 the soul. Children love to rate in the eyes of their parents. Condemnation is bitter and failure deadens ambition. Children, and adults as well, need encouragement to give zest to living, to build initiative and _self-confidence. A boy never left home because of encouragement and kindness, but many have left home because they never received any approval. An experiment was conducted in a school for the blind, while the students were learning to typewrite. It was found that when the children were praised for their work, they could type more words per minute than when they were scolded. Praise inspires children to live up to their highest possibilities. Many years ago in Naples there lived a boy and his mother. 'They were poor but the boy wanted one thing in life to become a singer. His teachers discouraged him, telling him he would never become an opera singer because the range of his voice was so limited. Only his mother praised and encouraged him. As time went on, she said she saw improvement in his voice and encouraged him to continue. She worked hard and sacrificed to pay for his lessons. Because of his perseverance and his mother's encouragement, he became one of the world's greatest tenors Enrico Caruso. There is no failure except from no longer trying. There is no defeat except from within. Mothers, remember that training your children is the most profitable business in which you can engage. LESSON DEPARTMENT Your household tasks should be secondary to training the children. A clean house and well prepared meals are essential but the habits which your children form are of much greater importance. Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss the importance of parental example in child training. 2. Why is it important that children be given responsibility? Discuss. 3. Is courtesy in the home important? Discuss.. 4. Have members who have reared their families tell successful methods of child training. 5. What results have you experienced with isolation as a means of correction? Discuss. 77 6. What are the harmful results of overindulgence? Discuss. 7- Give illustrations wherein encouragement spurred individuals on to great achievement. References Discourses of Brigham Young, Family," pp. 318-328. Grant, President Heber J.: Gospel Standards, "Women, Marriage and Family Life," PP- 154-156; Pp. 354-355- McKay, President David O.: "Marriage and Divorce," page 239, Improvement Era, May 1945. Pratt, Orson: "Plain Talk to Parents," page 147, Improvement Era, March 1946. Smith, President Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, "Marriage, the Home and the Family," Pp. 357-374: West, Roy A.: "Family Eternal." The PARADE Grace M. Candland The summer has passed; its quiet parade Of budding. And bloom and its cooling shade Are only a dream, a faded brocade. What joy I have missed I scarcely can guess, The flight of the hours and ceaseless stress 'Have blinded my eyes to earth's loveliness. I am quite sure I neglected to go Down to the creek where the wild roses grow, Or look at the fruit-laden trees below. But autumn is here, its colors outspread, My hunger for beauty is amply fed, And I shall enjoy this glory instead. IN SIBILANT REGRET Courtney Cottam When Autumn fills October's solitude With anthems born in loneliness and grief, The twig-lace shadows emphasize its mood Of quietness; each sere and frost-crisped leaf, Drifting to earth, intones a slow motet; A song of sorrowing and soft lament, Fall's requiem in sibilant regret, | A broken whisper from its soul, now spent. My heart, in close affinity with fall, Stirs with strange moods, primeval and intense, Stalking the years, entangling my soul; It is as if some haunting, distant call Binds with the Autumn's earthy, pungent scents. The sorrow-songs of earth into one whole. GOLDEN NUGGETS OF THOUGHT A charming little book that everyone likes. Pocket size carry it with you. Choice quotations from the writings of the wise. The title describes the book. $1.00 HIGHWAY HELPS LIGHTS ALONG LIFE'S GREAT HIGHWAY Short discussions (150 of them) on the gospel and other subjects. Each offers 5 to 15 minutes of inspirational reading and food for more and better thinking. $2.00 AND ALL LATTER-DAY SAINT BOOKS Wouldn't you like to have hand home. A price list of all the boo in your of the Church? It is free to you for the asking. Just | write your name and address very plainly and | mail to: EZRA L. MARLER BOOKS BY MAIL P. O. Box 267, Salt Lake City. Utah CAs should always be the result when energy is expended. Yet. Like a dizzily spinning top. Many businesses go 'round in the preparation of advertising and get nowhere. Month after month, the same thing happens again and again and nothing is accomplished but the expenditure of dollars that could be made to produce results. The function of a printing organization today is to help clients to plan printing that builds sales to take copy and dramatize it. Make it so irresistibly attractive that it must naturally draw the reader's attention. The waste of which we speak is often due to lack of understanding. Realization of this has made us sales minded. Your selling problem, and our experience puts us in a position to print your sales story so that it will get results. THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah Page 718 A Frank Discussion of Life's WHAT OTHERS BELIEVE - - To understand and appreciate better our own beliefs, we need to know something about others. Here is the opportunity. HIS MANY MANSIONS by Rulon S. > Howells, analyzes authoritatively our own and twelve other Christian churches. Order these books now by mail # or from your local dealer... And ask for folders and complete book list. Greatest Venture FAMILY ETERNAL, by Roy A. West reference book for the Relief Society "Social Science" lessons. Here is a book vitally important to L. D. S. Families those already established and those of tomorrow. Fascinating, helpful... The outgrowth of many years of specialized education and research, and practical experience with modern youth and the homes from which they come. BOOK CRAFT A BOOKCRAFT BOOK IS ALWAYS A CHOICE GIFT BACK OF THE STORY OF JOSEPH SMITH Between the Covers of this Book Is the story back of the story of Joseph Smith The Latter-day Prophet. Here is the factual basis for all of his unique claims you have been awaiting and need to know. THE AUTHOR, James H. Anderson, was an outstanding student of scripture and history. He was the first secretary of the Genealogical Society of Utah. He has written about YOUR RACIAL FAMILY and birthright. This beautifully bound book and chart will pleasantly surprise you. For your own library or for a friend you want to please at Christmas time send in your order now. (CUT HERE AND MAIL TODAY) EARL W. HARMER, Publisher 945 So. 7th East, Salt Lake City 4, Utah Please send postpaid the books checked below: LJ GOD'S COVENANT RACE..... W...$2.00 By James H. Anderson) THE STORY OF THE MORMON PIONEERS: By Mabel] Harmer By Mabel Harmer LDS DENNIS AND THE MORMON BATTALION 2.00 By Mabel Harmer  Written expressly for young people. Check or money order enclosed Send C. O. D.  Address FAMOUS MASCOTS AND K-9 PhD MUS) Specially Suitable for Relief Society MY REDEEMER LIVES (Gates).....18 I WILL EXALT THEE, O LORD (Harris) 15 O LORD MOST HOLY (Franck).15 HOLY REDEEMER (Marchelli).15 PEACE I LEAVE WITH YOU (O20) 23RD PSALM (Schubert) _.. Ls IN THY FORM (Madsen) 10 Above numbers in octavo. S. S. A. Postage additional. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. MTOM DA YNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 57 S. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 BOOKS You'll Need for Reference Upon the following titles are based many important parts of the 1946-47 Relief Society Lesson Course: "THE GOSPEL KINGDOM" "BRIGHAM YOUNG, THE $ 8 President Jon Taylor Boston ... $2.50 "THE GOSPEL THROUGH "ESSENTIALS IN CHURCH Milton R. Hunter... Eens Joseph Fielding Smith $2.00 "GOSPEL DOCTRINE" ee _ Lainey? President Joseph F. Smith.......... $2.50 JOSEPH SMITH" "EVI ENCES ND Joseph Fielding Smith............ $2.25 RECONCI'. A $l 85 a WAY TO PERFECT John A. Widtsoe........ -. Joseph Fielding Smith... 7 $1.50 "DISCOURSES OF - 2 DISCOURSES OF WILFORD $2.50 BRIGHAM YOUNG $2.50 WOODRUFF "RESTORATION OF ALL "GOSPEL STANDARDS" THINGS" President Heber J. Grant......... $2. 25 Joseph Fielding Smith. Sl. 75 DESERET BOOK COMPANY THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST 44 East South Temple P, O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah Enclosed is $......................... Send the titles as checked above. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine May there always be milk in his glass and mush on the table. INSURANCE "COMPANY SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH GEORCE ALBERT SMITH, President
